13-05-2021||Other||After criticism, Deoria DM withdraws appeal to public for funds||Deoria district magistrate Ashutosh Niranjan has withdrawn his appeal to people to contribute to the District Social Responsibility Committee (DSRC) fund to fight Covid-19, the district administration said.The withdrawal comes days after DM’s appeal attracted criticism from people in various parts of the country on social media.The district magistrate had issued the appeal on May 10 to the residents of the district. He had stated that those who wished to contribute to the district administration’s plan to fight the pandemic could donate to the DSRC fund that would be utilised for the treatment of Covid-19 patients in the district. The name of a bank and the DSRC account number were mentioned in the appeal.Niranjan said, “Several people from various walks of life met me in the office with the request that they wished to donate to the district administration fund for health facilities for Covid patients. In view of the pressure of the local people, I issued an appeal. To make the donation transparent, I gave the account (number) of DSRC, which is audited annually.”Shiv Kumar Jaiswal, a member of the Deoria traders’ organization, said earlier too residents of the district, including traders and professionals, had donated money to DSRC during floods or the outbreak of diseases, including Japanese encephalitis. “The fund was utilised for public work. The DM gave the details of the utilisation of the fund to members of the committee at review meetings. It’s a unique initiative by local people to assist the administration in public work. We have urged the DM to permit the people to donate to DSRC fund,” Jaiswal said.On Wednesday, 387 fresh Covid-19 cases were reported in Deoria. The tally of active Covid cases in the district was 2,931. The DM said the recovery rate of Covid patients in the district was 89.3% whereas the positivity rate was 7.5%. After the second wave, the district administration arranged 350 beds in Level-2 government facilities and 450 beds in private hospitals in Deoria, the district magistrate said.There are 18 ventilator beds and 10 BiPap beds in Deoria district. “The sample test target of the district is 2,000 per day, but we are doing 3,500 sample tests daily. The trace, test, track and treat campaign has been launched in the rural areas of the district,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/after-criticism-deoria-dm-withdraws-appeal-to-public-for-funds-101620930531736.html
13-05-2021||Chandigarh||VB begins probe into ₹9 lakh paid to architect by Moga MC||Punjab Vigilance Bureau has launched an investigation into the alleged irregularities in releasing over ₹9 lakh to a Ludhiana-based architect by commissioner of Moga municipal corporation, Anita Darshi, a PCS officer. Darshi also holds the post of additional deputy commissioner (development), Moga. Names of two other officers of the civic body, an executive engineer and junior engineer, are also there in the complaint. The complainant is a non-resident Indian (NRI) who alleged that the architect was paid the money for designing three buildings of which two were never constructed. Even the tender for construction of two buildings was never floated, it was alleged. An official of the vigilance bureau privy to the investigation said the civic body had decided to construct a night shelter, main MC office and town hall buildings in 2014. The tender for architectural services of the three buildings was allotted to a Ludhiana-based architect on October 29, 2014, and payment was released in December 2019.The civic body paid the architect fee of ₹1.12 lakh for designing building of night shelter, ₹7 lakh for the main office and ₹96,574 for the town hall. However, only night shelter building was constructed.Confirming the development, DSP Kewal Karishan of vigilance bureau, Moga, said, “We are investigating this matter and it will take some time. I will be able to share details after completion of the probe.”Darshi confirmed that only the night shelter building was constructed. “The tenders for construction of the other two buildings were cancelled for some reasons. The tender for architectural services of the three buildings were allotted to the architect before that. The payments were released as per rules,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/vb-begins-probe-into-9-lakh-paid-to-architect-by-moga-mc-101620929751699.html
13-05-2021||Chandigarh||Cong faces crisis as councillors move HC against Jaitu MC chief’s election in Punjab||Five Congress councilors are among the 11 newly elected members who have challenged the May 7 election of Surjit Singh Baba as the Jaitu municipal council president in the Punjab and Haryana high court, demanding that the election be set aside since he doesn’t enjoy trust of the majority members. The high court has treated the civil writ petition as urgent and fixed the hearing for May 19. The Congress had won nine of the 17 seats in the civic body elections held in February. The petition was filed by five Congress councillors, three independents, two of Shiromani Akali Dal and one belonging to the Bharatiya Janata Party, alleging that Baba’s appointment was made in an unjust and unfair manner. “The name of Baba was announced by cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu from an envelope claiming it is an order of the Congress high command,” the petitioners alleged. The petitioners said they immediately raised an objection inside the House after Baba’s name was announced. “Ten elected members of three different parties along with Jaitu MLA Baldev Singh submitted a written complaint to the chief secretary, chief justice of Punjab and Haryana high court and chief election officer,” they added. On May 7, the election for the office-bearers of Jaitu municipal council was held amid high drama, with a faction of Congress councillors backed by Faridkot member parliament Mohammad Sadiq opposed the appointment of Baba. One of the petitioners, Suman Devi of the Congress, is backed by Sadiq, while Baba has the support of Faridkot MLA Kushaldeep Singh Dhillon. Suman was nominated as senior vice-president but she staked claim on the president’s post. MP Sadiq said that out of 17 councillors, Suman had the support of 10 but Baba was still named the president. “This is totally unconstitutional, MLA of another area should not interfere in the affairs of my constituency,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cong-faces-crisis-as-councillors-move-hc-against-jaitu-mc-chief-s-election-in-punjab-101620929451653.html
13-05-2021||Gurugram||Lack of awareness, poor enforcement of curbs in rural areas leading to more deaths, allege residents||Hesitancy to get tested, reliance on chemists and self-medication are major obstacles in preventing further spread of Covid-19 in rural areas, said residents, even as the health department started mass screening following complaints of an increase in the number of deaths due to the infection and influenza-like illnesses.Naveen Kumar, a resident of Baspadmka village in Pataudi, who had sought help from the administration on Twitter, said that many people with symptoms did not turn up at the testing camps organised by the government.“On Thursday over 100 people got tested and out of them, 10 turned out positive for Covid-19. However, there is a large number of people suffering from high fever and other symptoms in the village who did not turn up. I hope the health department conducts testing in every household,” said Kumar.He said that eight to 10 recent deaths were of people suffering from Covid-19 symptoms.The situation is similar in Manesar village, which is witnessing one or two deaths daily for the past 15 days, locals said. “The population of Manesar is around 100,000 and people live in highly dense pockets. We have witnessed seven deaths in Aaalhu mohalla alone due to Covid-19 this month. Villagers are admitted to local hospitals and a large number of them have self-quarantined with little help from authorities. The Covid-19 safeguards and protocols are not being followed,” said Om Prakash Yadav, a former village head.He said that lack of enforcement is leading to more infections and causing deaths. “Today, we lost a young man of 43 years, who was healthy and in the prime of his life. His family is shattered,” he said on Thursday.According to the health department data, the test positivity rate (proportion of positives out of the samples tested) in rural areas was at 21.8% in April. Officials identified seven high-risk areas for mass surveillance and door-to-door screening.The health department said that it has registered around 17 deaths due to Covid-19 in the seven high-risk areas. “The large outreach planned in rural areas is aimed at preventing the spread of Covid-19 infections and ensuring better treatment so that patients do not succumb due to complications,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, Gurugram.Officials said that a large-scale exercise is being launched across the district for testing and screening people in villages, and serious cases will be referred to hospitals.Yadav said, “Around 50 large isolation centres will be set up in villages initially with healthcare facilities. One team for testing and another for isolation will be deployed in villages that will help the in medication and preventing the spread.”To ensure that locals don’t rely on chemists for treatment, Yadav said that healthcare professionals are being deployed to curb this practice. “We will ensure timely testing and treatment,” he said.Residents of villages said that infected persons prefer to wait for a week to approach the hospitals and only do so when their condition deteriorates. Free movement of infected persons is further spreading the infection, complained locals.In Sultanpur village, at least eight people died due to Covid-19 this month, most of whom relied on self-medication, said locals. “Our neighbour waited four to five days before getting tested and suddenly collapsed. He could not survive a single day in the hospital. His wife is also in a critical condition and is surviving on ventilator support,” said Pravesh Chauhan, a resident.Many infected persons or those with influenza-like illness are also not isolating and there is no one to keep a check, residents said.“It is difficult to ask people to refrain from sharing hukka or playing cards. Some step out for fresh air but this has caused more infections,” said Dilip Yadav, a resident of Kherki Daula, who recently shifted to a condominium across the toll plaza.Bhawar Singh, a resident of Hassanpur village, said that authorities should ensure that critical patients from rural areas are admitted to hospitals. “We have to make a lot of effort to get the patients admitted, even if their condition is bad,” said Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/lack-of-awareness-poor-enforcement-of-curbs-in-rural-areas-leading-to-more-deaths-allege-residents-101620927291536.html
13-05-2021||Gurugram||164 isolation centres to be set up in villages, intensive testing on the cards||The Gurugram administration identified 164 buildings on Thursday to set up isolation centres for Covid-19 patients, to curb the spread of the virus in rural areas.According to the officials, health department teams will be deployed for testing and managing patients at these isolation centres, and also in home quarantine. Some 50 isolation centres will be set up initially, and will be increased if the situation demands, they said.Gurugram deputy commissioner (DC) Yash Garg said that the health department, and the district development and panchayat department will send teams for Covid-19 testing and screening over the next 10 days, to contain the local spread. These teams will also sanitise the villages.Panchayats will also get grants for setting up isolation centres based on the population, according to the district administration.“Villages with a population of over 10,000 will get ₹50,000, and less than 10,000 will get ₹10,000,” Garg added.He also appealed to the people to get themselves tested for if they have Covid-19 symptoms and isolate themselves immediately from other family members to stop the spread of the infection.“We will treat the patients, and also conduct awareness drives on Covid-19. With the district administration’s help, the enforcement of safeguards and Covid-19 protocols will also be ensured,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer (CMO), adding that that Accredited Social Health Activist (ASHA) and Anganwadi workers — those from the panchayat department — will be part of local teams that will work in rural areas.According to the health department, its officials identified seven high-risk rural areas where 138 teams are testing and tracing Covid-19 for treatment.On Wednesday, Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar had directed the officials concerned to set up adequate healthcare facilities and isolation centres, and deploy healthcare teams across the rural areas in Haryana. He also ordered that the village isolation centres should have beds and beddings, triple layered masks, and hand sanitisers with bottle dispensers and steamers.Patients must get food either through the community or on a hire basis, Khattar had said, adding that the health department will provide essential medicines and medical equipment to the isolation centres in the villages, and the healthcare staff will supervise the patients and shift critical patients to the facilities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/164-isolation-centres-to-be-set-up-in-villages-intensive-testing-on-the-cards-101620927292248.html
13-05-2021||Gurugram||Cops feed 600 daily wagers amid lockdown||The police are providing meals to nearly 600 industrial and construction workers who have either lost their jobs due to the pandemic or are facing financial difficulties due to the ongoing lockdown.A team from the Manesar police station prepares the food and delivers it to designated spots, where it is shared with workers twice a day.Yashwant Yadav, station house officer (SHO) of IMT Manesar police station, said that they started this initiative after many workers approached them to get food from a mess on their premises. “Labourers used to ask for food as they were unable to buy even a single meal. Due to the lockdown, community lunches stopped and many factories have been shut since the lockdown was announced.”“They offered to work in exchange for food, but we told them that we had enough staff but that they were welcome to have meals,” he said.After more than 15 people approached them, the police started preparing more food and the message spread through word of mouth, following which the numbers started increasing daily. Two cooks were also hired to help with the preparations for lunch and dinner.KK Rao, the commissioner of police, said that in a survey on May 8, they located four sites where daily wagers were sleeping without having food. “A team was formed to feed the needy and ration was bought by the police station staff. They did not ask for any help or fund and for nearly 10 days, they were spending from their own pockets. Now, the ration is being sent from the police headquarters,” he said.At present, the department is supplying food to workers at the four locations, including Labour Chowk. The initiative is being announced through loudspeakers in areas where daily wagers are staying and social distancing and mask discipline is enforced, said officials.“I lost job my again this year and could not tell my family members as they need money. I am hopeful I will get another job soon and will start saving and sending money to my ailing mother in Bihar. Last year, I had returned to my village after the lockdown was announced and returned to Gurugram after eight months,” said Lankesh Kumar, who worked with an automobile company.Another labourer, Kanwar Singh of Bihar, said “There was no hope to get any meal and we had slept on an empty stomach for two nights before we got freshly cooked food. We sleep near the police station so that we do not have to travel to eat on time and they do not run short of food.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/cops-feed-600-daily-wagers-amid-lockdown-101620927231578.html
13-05-2021||Gurugram||Haryana’s 1st wildlife census postponed amid wildlife safety concerns in times of Covid||The first state-wide wildlife census in Haryana, which started in April, was postponed indefinitely amid Covid-19 crisis, said the officials on Thursday.ML Rajvanshi, chief conservator of Forests (wildlife), said, “We have indefinitely postponed the state-wide wildlife estimation process, which started last month, amid the ongoing Covid-19 crisis. Several states have reported animals being infected with the coronavirus. We do not want to take risk, so we have halted the estimation process for now.”Over 25 forest officials have tested positive in Haryana, making it riskier to continue the census, said a senior forest department official.The wildlife census, which is conducted in collaboration with Wildlife Institute of India (WII), Dehradun, had started in the second week of April this year. The forest department, with the WII, was scheduled to set up camera traps for a survey of large mammals between May 1 and June 30.With the help of the survey, the forest department officials wanted to assess the abundance and distribution of the major mammalian carnivore population, and prey population inside the protected areas. The census also focuses on assessing abundance and distribution of nilgai and rhesus macaque in a human-dominating landscape outside these areas. As part of the census, 59 beats of Shivalik forest and 38 beats of Aravalli forests will be surveyed.The forest department, however, was able to conduct the monkey survey in urban areas from April 28-30 through the ‘Wildlife Census Haryana’ mobile application, wherein residents noted the presence of monkeys in their respective areas.The data recorded on the mobile application will be used to devise strategies to reduce man-monkey conflicts, rampant in cities like Faridabad and Gurugram, the senior forest official added.“Amid the rise in such cases, we had asked the residents not to venture out, and report the presence of monkeys in their areas — either through their balconies or terraces. We have received a good response for this survey, despite the high number of cases, with around 600 participants recording their sightings on the application, with over 6,000 monkeys being present across Haryana,” said Rajvanshi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/haryanas-1st-wildlife-census-postponed-amid-wildlife-safety-concerns-in-times-of-covid-101620927232195.html
13-05-2021||Other||Post-Covid illnesses on the rise, the recovered need oxygen||Private hospitals are reporting an increased footfall of patients who developed lung fibrosis and severe pneumonia after recovering from Covid-19 and need immediate hospitalisation with oxygen support.According to Dr Dhruv Chaudhary, the state nodal officer for tertiary care of Covid-19 patients, and who is also a lung and respiratory disease specialist at the Post Graduate Institute Medical Sciences- Rohtak, since the magnitude of the second Covid-19 wave has been massive, such cases have increased everywhere.“It is mostly seen in patients who were admitted to intensive care units (ICUs) for treatment after testing positive. Such patients require a sufficient number of days to recover. But, to manage beds and to accommodate other patients, many people are asked to leave hospitals and home-isolate without complete recovery. Therefore, 10 to 15% of the recovered patients develop lung infections and need to be put on oxygen support,” said Dr Chaudhary.The district administration also hiked the oxygen quota for hospitals treating such cases.“Post-Covid care and treatment are most important and the number of people complaining of lung (illnesses) and pneumonia has increased. The administration is aware that such cases are on the rise. Therefore, we have increased the oxygen quota by nearly 30% so that hospitals can cater to such patients and store additional oxygen for emergency purpose,” said Yash Garg, Gurugram deputy commissioner.The administration has been supplying oxygen to at least 82 hospitals in the district.Dr Vikram Singh, the director of Aarvy Hospital, said that due to the current burden on hospitals to admit seriously ill patients, many people are asked to remain on oxygen support system at homes. “If required, they are admitted to hospitals. At least 30-40% recovered patients develop lung fibrosis and are suggested to remain on oxygen support at their homes,” said Singh.Dr Neeraj Gupta, a pulmonologist and the head of ICU care at W Pratiksha Hospital, is currently treating at least three recovered Covid-19 patients who developed pneumonia and are admitted to the ICU. “Such patients have high oxygen demand as their lungs could not heal properly even after recovery. Many patients have to be given immediate treatment in hospital, while some are suggested to remain at home and continue with treatment.”Gupta said she comes across at least nine such cases every day, of whom two to three people develop serious symptoms.Causes for post-Covid illnessDr Mohit Mathur, associate director of critical care at Max Hospital, Gurugram, said, “The scar tissue which replaces the diseased lung tissue after the infection is not capable of the original function to transfer oxygen into the blood. Such patients are left with a persistent oxygen requirement,” said Mathur.In many cases, people discharged from hospitals said that they found it difficult to walk even 10 steps.Swati Saxena, 34, a resident of MG Road, said that she was discharged from the ICU on April 28 within seven days of getting admitted. She was later admitted again on May 2 and discharged earlier this week. “I had heart rate issue, breathlessness and chest pain. It took three days to recover from the pain. Four oxygen cylinders were used daily and the volume of oxygen given to me was high, as compared to when I was first admitted for Covid-19,” said Saxena.“Basically, in many cases compromised lung capacity or poor lung function due to this infection has been causing further multiple complications even after recovery,” said Dr Satish Kaul, head of the department and director, internal medicine, Narayana Hospital.Detecting the illnessAt present, there is no certain way to definitely say which patients will eventually develop lung fibrosis, doctors said. A few existing studies show that age, severe illnesses, prolonged ICU treatment, need for mechanical ventilation, a history of smoking and chronic alcoholism may increase the risk of developing lung fibrosis after recovery from Covid-19.“CT chest and restrictive pattern on pulmonary function test are some of the ways to detect this problem. The bigger challenge is that apart from few anti-fibrotic agents which are of doubtful efficacy, there are not many drugs to address this problem. Therefore, recovery becomes a slow process, extending over months,” said Mathur, who is treating 10 such cases on average every day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/postcovid-illnesses-on-the-rise-the-recovered-need-oxygen-101620927171495.html
13-05-2021||Kolkata||Bengal reports record spike of 20,839 Covid-19 cases, 129 deaths||West Bengal on Thursday registered its highest single-day spike of 20,839 Covid-19 cases, pushing the tally to 10,73,956, a health department bulletin said.The death toll also climbed to 12,857 as 129 more people succumbed to coronavirus.Altogether 19,181 people were cured of the disease since Wednesday, taking the total number of recoveries to 9,30,886.West Bengal has 1,30,213 active cases at present, the bulletin said.Of the fresh fatalities, Kolkata reported 39 and North 24 Parganas district 25. The remaining deaths were registered in several other districts.North 24 Parganas district recorded the maximum number of new cases at 4,131, followed by Kolkata at 3,924.A total of 70,473 samples were tested for Covid-19 in the state since Wednesday, the bulletin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bengal-reports-record-spike-of-20-839-covid-19-cases-129-deaths-101620924112911.html
13-05-2021||Other||Five Covid patients escaped from SNMMCH, FIR lodged||Five Covid positive patients and residents of Bihar escaped from Shahid Nirmal Mahto Medical College Hospital (SNMMCH) in Dhanbad late Wednesday night.However, three of them were later caught by the police on main road near Police Line. Hospital observer Dipak Kumar, deployed by district administration for supervision of Covid patients, has lodged an FIR against all five patients with Saraidhela police station under Sections of Disaster Management Act. “District police have launched a hunt for other two patients,” he said.SNMMCH official said all five patients were admitted at fourth floor of PG Block Covid ward. Around 12.30 am, health staff found them missing from their beds. The patients locked the doors from inside and escaped through window space kept open for AC. The patients who escaped have been identified as Rajesh Kumar, Prakash Kumar, Navneet Kumar , Nand Kishore Yadav and Suresh Yadav. They are residents of Banka District of Bihar and reportedly belong to same family.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/five-covid-patients-escaped-from-snmmch-fir-lodged-101620924411349.html
13-05-2021||Other||Tej Pratap visits Shahabuddin’s native place, meets son||PATNARJD chief Lalu Prasad’s elder son and state’s former health minister Tej Pratap Yadav on Thursday visited the family of former Siwan MP Mohammed Shahabuddin, who died recently in Delhi, at their native village Pratappur in Siwan district.Shahabuddin, a strongman, had represented Siwan Lok Sabha constituency for RJD several times. He was lodged in Tihar jail in the national capital following his conviction in a murder case. Close aides of Tej Pratap said he has had a long chat with Shahabuddin’s son Osama. RJD MLAs Awadh Bihari Choudhary, Jitendra Rai, Chotelal Rai and Surendra Yadav were also present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tej-pratap-visits-shahabuddin-s-native-place-meets-son-101620924351284.html
13-05-2021||Chandigarh||Delhi getting more oxygen despite its active caseload being lower than Haryana: Vij||Pushing the case of Haryana for revising daily medical oxygen quota, state health minister Anil Vij on Thursday said that Delhi with 85,000 active patients has been allocated 700 MT oxygen while Haryana is being given 258 MT oxygen despite having over one lakh active patients.Underlining the need to review oxygen allocation, Vij said that he raised the matter with the central government in a meeting of health ministers via video conferencing.There is need to review oxygen allocation, Vij added.Last week, Haryana urged the Centre to increase its medical oxygen quota to at least 300 MT.The state government has started supply of oxygen cylinders to patients in home isolation in every district from May 9. For this, patients or their family members have to register on www.oxygenhry.inAs per officials, 4,400 applications have been received on the portal by Wednesday. The oxygen was delivered to 1,502 applicants while oxygen cylinders were delivered to 1,326 applicants. About 363 NGOs have registered for home supply of oxygen cylinders and registration of 332 NGOs had been approved.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/delhi-getting-more-oxygen-despite-its-active-caseload-being-lower-than-haryana-vij-101620924292484.html
13-05-2021||Other||Pappu shifted to DMCH, wife holds fort in Patna||PATNATwo days after his arrest in Patna, former Madhepura MP and president of Jan Adhikar Party (JAP), Rajesh Ranjan alias Pappu Yadav, was shifted to Darbhanga Medical College and Hospital (DMCH) from the prison ward of Birpur jail in Supual on Thursday. He was shifted to DMCH after a team of doctors examines his health following the direction of Madhepura court and found he should be treated at a hospital where CT scan and MRI facilities are available, Supaul’s district magistrate Mahendra Kumar said.Yadav was arrested in Patna on Tuesday in connection with a 32-year-old kidnapping case following an order from a Madhepura court. The case relates to alleged abduction of Rajkumar Yadav and Umakant Yadav on January 29, 1989.Rajkumar, however, came before media at a press conference held by Pappu Yadav’s wife and former Congress MP Ranjeet Ranjan in Patna on Thursday and claimed it was a case of confusion and he was never kidnapped.Ranjan hit out at the Nitish Kumar government and the BJP and threatened to go on a hunger strike if her husband was not released. “My husband exposed Saran MP Rajiv Pratap Rudy in the interest of common people of Bihar who are struggling to find ambulances. Rudy was keeping over three dozen ambulances from his MP fund like his private property. Instead of an FIR against Rudy, the state government, under the pressure of BJP, arrested my husband,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pappu-shifted-to-dmch-wife-holds-fort-in-patna-101620924291310.html
13-05-2021||Other||Her 3 sons devoured by Covid and grandchildren in jail, woman performs last rites of husband||PATNABreaking age-old Hindu traditions, a woman in her 70s in Bihar’s Banka district on Thursday performed the last rites of her husband as she was left with no other option due to cruel quirk of fate after Covid-19 struck her entire family and snatched her three sons and her husband.Nirmala Devi’s husband Shashidhar Kapdi (73) died of Covid on May 10 night at the Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College and Hospital (JNLMCH), Bhagalpur.Her daughter-in-law Kiran Bharti said Nirmala’s three sons, Prabhash Kumar Kapdi, Pappu Kapdi and Pramod Kapdi, died due to Covid in the last 20 days. While Pappu (40) died in Delhi on April 30, Prabhash (35) died at JNMLCH on April 22 and Pramod on May 1.To matters worse, her grandsons, Akshay Kapri and Chhotu Kapri, are lodged in Munger jail. Kiran Bharti said that on May 4, the Bhagalpur police arrested them on the charges of assaulting medical staff and vandalizing JNLMCH following mismanagement and negligence that caused the death of her family members.Police said the accused alleged that their grandfather (Shashidhar) was not provided oxygen, causing the death, and attacked the doctors.“When I reached hospital after cremation of my father, I found that the oxygen supply was switched off. I made a video and made it viral on social media. This led to police action against me,” alleged Akshay before being taken by the police.“A woman going to the crematorium is prohibited in our traditions. But my love for my husband gave me the courage to perform the last rites. But it was very painful,” said Nirmala.Banka’s district magistrate Suharsh Bhagat said Nirmala is a native of Ballikit village of Amarpur block. He said he had ordered ex-gratia as per law for the family.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/her-3-sons-devoured-by-covid-and-grandchildren-in-jail-woman-performs-last-rites-of-husband-101620924231838.html
13-05-2021||Other||6 more bodies fished out of Ganga in Buxar, 82 so far||BUXAR/ARASix more bodies were fished out of Ganga at Chausa in Bihar’s Buxar district late Wednesday evening, taking the total number of corpses recovered so far to 82, even as the National Human Right Commission (NHRC) issued notice to the Centre, Uttar Pradesh and Bihar and sought an action-taken report within four weeks.Buxar district magistrate (DM) Aman Samir said continuous patrolling was being done at Chakki, Simri, Brahmpur and Chausa ever since the bodies were first spotted floating in the river. “People are being advised to avoid taking bath in the river. Since all bodies are floating downstream from UP side, it is not known what disease claimed them,” he said.Top Bihar government officials have raised the matter with their counterparts in UP. “I spoke to home secretary of UP while DGP held talks with his UP counterpart. Clearly, the bodies have floated downstream as most of them were 5-6 days old. Ever since we put the net, bodies are not floating to Bihar side,” said Bihar’s additional chief secretary (home), Chaitanya Prasad. Meanwhile, In a statement, the NHRC said it seems the public authorities have failed to take concentric efforts in educating the masses and checking the immersion of half burnt or unburnt dead bodies into the Ganga.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/6-more-bodies-fished-out-of-ganga-in-buxar-82-so-far-101620924231240.html
13-05-2021||Other||People reluctant to appear for testing in rural areas of Hisar||Hisar has emerged as the most affected district in Haryana with 641 deaths till May 12, prompting the health authorities to start testing in villages where people are complaining of Covid-like symptoms.The district had reported 334 deaths till March 31, 106 in April, and 201 deaths till May 12. The district has 9,109 active cases and 77.4% recovery rate.Haryana’s largest village Sisai saw 39 deaths, of which nine are confirmed Covid-19 deaths since April 20, and yet people are reluctant in appearing for testing.Hansi SDM Jitendra Ahlawat said 39 people have died at Sisai, of which nine died of the virus since April 25 and 30 other deaths occurred due to fever and other reasons.“No Covid death was reported in the village in the first wave and there was no need for sampling at that time. In the second wave, 15 people died due to Covid. Health teams are continuously collecting samples but the villagers are appearing in a less proportions. We had held many meetings with villagers urging them to appear for testing in large numbers but to no avail,” the SDM added.A senior medical officer, who is looking after sampling at Sisai village, said the village has a population of over 20,000 and only 223 persons appeared for testing in a week and 6% of them were found infected.“People have high fever, cough, wheezing but they are approaching quacks for treatment instead of appearing for Covid test,” the doctor added.Balbir Singh, acting president of the Sisai municipal committee, said 54 persons have died in the village since April 24, of which 15 have died of Covid-19.“The health department is including deaths which have taken place in the district only. More than 30 deceased had high fever and cough but none appeared for testing. Many of their family members had refused testing. The villagers have a mindset that if they test positive, they will not get a bed in government hospitals. We had sanitised the village on our own level,” he added.Parminder Singh, representative of Haryana Congress chief Kumari Selja’s native village Parbhuwala, said the village saw 18 deaths, of which three are confirmed Covid deaths.Sarpanch Om Prakash, who is leading Talwandi Badshahpur village until new panchayat forms, said more than 16 persons have died in the last three weeks. “Three of the deceased were cremated by doctors following Covid protocol,” he added.Hisar deputy commissioner Priyanka Soni has directed to start testing in villages where people are suffering from high fever and asked village nambardars to help health teams ensure proper testing.“We have asked the villagers to adopt Thikhri pehra in their areas to stop the spread of the virus,” the DC added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/people-reluctant-to-appear-for-testing-in-rural-areas-of-hisar-101620924173176.html
13-05-2021||Other||Thousands of health workers call off stir after HC intervention||PATNAFollowing the intervention of the Patna High Court, the Bihar State Contractual Health Employees’ Federation called off its “home isolation” and resumed duty immediately on Thursday. The court directed the state government to file its response to the interlocutory application filed by the Rashtriya Swasthya Mission Karmchari Sangh, Bihar, within four weeks. On Wednesday, over 27,000 health workers had gone on “home-isolation” alleging apathy of the state government towards their old demands, threatening to derail health facilities across the state. Sangh secretary Lalan Singh said they had returned to work on court’s order and the government’s assurance. Experts’ committee report Earlier in the morning, the court directed that the report of the committee of experts be shared with all the counsels appearing in the proceedings on Covid management. The three-member committee had been constituted by the Centre on the directive of the Patna HC to examine the facilities available at the hospitals in Patna and the status of oxygen supply. The team was headed by Dr Umesh Kumar Bhadani of AIIMS, Patna. Advocate General Lalit Kishore will file the response to the court within the next four working days. Meanwhile, the state government informed the court that the management of Medanta Hospital had agreed to open their institution at Patna with effect from May 17, 2021, by making provision for at least 50 beds to be utilized only for Covid-19 patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/thousands-of-health-workers-call-off-stir-after-hc-intervention-101620924171941.html
13-05-2021||Other||IT ministry sends Covid care vans to Patna, Nalanda||PATNAThe ministry of electronics and information and technology has dispatched Covid Care vans to rural areas of Patna and Nalanda districts to facilitate doorstep registration for vaccination against coronavirus of the 18-44 years age group. The pilot project, executed through Common Service Centre (CSC) e-governance under the Digital India, aims to provide internet access and facilitate the 18-44 years target age group pre-register for vaccination in the two districts. The two districts have a population of roughly 49.27 lakh, of which Nalanda accounts for 28.77 lakh and Patna 20.5 lakh (source: Census 2011). The health ministry has made it mandatory for those in 18-44 years age group to pre-register for Covid-19 vaccination. Unlike those 45 years and above, walk-in and on-spot registration for vaccination is not allowed for the younger age group. “Bihar has vaccinated 85,50,682 beneficiaries so far,” said Pratyaya Amrit, Bihar’s additional chief secretary, health, at a press conference on Thursday. It has a target population of 7.51 crore to vaccinate, of which 5.39 crore are in the 18-44 age years group and 2.12 crore in the 45 years and above age group. “We have sent out one van in each of the districts of Patna and Nalanda to reach out to the rural people in the 18-44 years age group and facilitate them pre-register for Covid-19 vaccination. Our vans are equipped with large TV LED screen, laptops and generator set,” said Santosh Kumar Tiwari, state head CSC, Bihar. The CSC has also offered to help the Bihar government distribute Covid-19 kits, containing basic medication and thermometer, to patients under home isolation and also test suspects using rapid antigen kits. The state health department, however, has not responded to this initiative of the CSC so far, said sources. Should the state health department agree, it has to provide to the CSC Covid-19 medication kits for patients and rapid antigen kits for on-spot testing of Covid suspects. This will, in turn, help the health department increase its daily testing and reach out with Covid medication kits to a larger rural population, where the second wave of the pandemic has now extended to. Of late, more new Covid-19 cases are being reported from rural than urban areas in Bihar. The Covid vans would also offer Aadhaar-enabled banking services and allow an individual withdraw up to a maximum of ₹20,000 per day, said Tiwari. There are 40,000 CSCs also referred to as village level entrepreneurs in Bihar. These are physical facilities for delivering Centre’s e-services like booking railway tickets, applying for PAN card, Aadhaar, etc. to rural and remote locations.Headline: Vaccination in BiharIntro: The state has vaccinated 11.31% of its population against Covid-19 since the inoculation began on Jan 16Target population: 7.51 crore 18-44 age group: 5.39 crore 45-plus: 2.12 croreVaccinated so far: 85,50,682||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/it-ministry-sends-covid-care-vans-to-patna-nalanda-101620924171315.html
13-05-2021||Other||Of all Covid deaths at PGIMS, Rohtak since virus outbreak, 51% are since March 31||The Post-Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS), Rohtak has witnessed a spike in Covid-19 deaths and a total of 465 persons have succumbed to the contagion at the institution since March 31.PGIMS medical superintendent Dr Pushpa Dahiya said 903 persons have died at the institution between May 1, 2020 and May 12, 2021. Of these, 465 deaths (51%) were reported since March 31 this year, she said.“Last year, 10 persons lost their lives due to Covid at PGIMS in May last year, 25 in June, 36 in July, 41 in August, 84 in September, 45 in October, 127 in November and 52 in December. Similarly, this year, 13 deaths were reported in January, two in February, three in March, 268 in April, and 197 till May 12,” she added.She said that the death toll witnessed a sharp rise in April, 2021.“Many patients reached here after their lungs got infected and their saturation level dipped. Such patients died after they got admitted for one to two hours. People are not coming here for testing and are moving in after their health completely deteriorates. We have 113 ICU beds and doctors are making all efforts to save lives of every patient undergoing treatment. Also, people had lowered their guard this year which resulted in rise of caseload and deaths,” she added.A senior doctor at PGIMS, requesting anonymity, said that there is rise in Covid-suspected deaths. “Hospitals are admitting patients who have RT-PCR positive reports and there are patients with false negative, whom hospitals are refusing admission. Such patients are also dying,” the doctor added.The doctor added that they have seen a rise in patients from rural areas visiting PGIMS for treatment.“In the first wave, few patients from rural areas came for treatment here but the transmission has spread its tentacles in villages. Since April last week, we are receiving calls from villages seeking to help in admitting severe patients. This is happening because people are not appearing for tests in villages and are approaching us after their lungs are found infected in CT reports,” the doctor added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/of-all-covid-deaths-at-pgims-rohtak-since-virus-outbreak-51-are-since-march-31-101620923993824.html
13-05-2021||Chandigarh||Inmates undergoing 7-yr jail in Haryana to be released on parole till August 31||The convicted inmates undergoing seven-year imprisonment will be released on special parole till August 31 due to the second wave of Covid-19 reaching the over-crowed prisons in Haryana.A high-powered committee, headed by justice Rajan Gupta of the Punjab and Haryana high court, has directed to release all convicts sentenced to imprisonment for more than seven years on special parole till August 31, the state government said in a press release.The high-powered panel comprising Baldev Raj Mahajan, advocate general; Rajeev Arora, additional chief secretary (ACS, home); Shatrujeet Kapur, director general of prisons; Parmod Goyal, district and sessions judge, took the decision in view of the May 7 directions of the Supreme Court.“The state and jail authorities have been asked to consider cases of all such convicts/ undertrials for parole/interim bail if covered by categories prescribed by the committee,” an official spokesperson said.The committee was constituted under the directions of Supreme Court in March 2020 in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic to release convicts/undertrials on parole/interim bail.According to the prisons department, 21,804 prisoners are presently lodged in 19 jails of Haryana against the authorised capacity of 20,041.After the first meeting of the committee on March 24, 2020, 2,580 convicts sentenced for more than seven years imprisonment were released on special parole.And 2,094 convicts, who are sentenced up to seven years or facing trial for offences that attracts maximum seven years imprisonment were released on special parole or interim bail.Later, with dip in Covid cases, the committee had ordered return of the convicts. The state government said till date 2,170 convicts have surrendered in jails in phases and the ninth phase consisting of 280 convicts will start from May 14.However, convicts who have failed to surrender on date fixed or are absconding or against whom new case/cases were registered while on special parole will not be entitled to special parole.Competent authorities have been directed to consider all inmates again for special parole who falls under the categories prescribed by the committee.In view of surge in Covid-19, the panel has directed to stop physical appearance of undertrials in courts for the time being and produce the accused by way of video conferencing.The committee has also stopped interviews of inmates with their family members to minimise the risk of Covid infection among prisoners and jail staff.The jail authorities have been allowed to hold interviews with the family members through video conferencing or other electronic modes in a transparent and structured manner.About 1,828 (71%) jail inmates aged 45 years or above, of 2,560 and 2,685 (82.2%) jail staff have since been vaccinated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/inmates-undergoing-7-yr-jail-in-haryana-to-be-released-on-parole-till-august-31-101620923931866.html
13-05-2021||Chandigarh||Only 6 lakh vaccine doses received for 18+ people in Haryana||Citing difficulties in procurement of vaccines for inoculation of citizens aged between 18 and 45 years, Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Thursday said that the state government has received only six lakh doses of Covid vaccines from the manufacturers.The CM said the state government has placed orders for purchasing 50 lakh Covaxin and Covishield doses for the 18-45 age group. But only six lakh vaccine doses have been received so far - three lakh each in different consignments, he said.GLOBAL TENDERS BEING FLOATEDKhattar added that a global tender is being floated to purchase vaccine for the 18-45 age group. The cost of the vaccine will be borne by the state government and it will be administered free of cost at government hospitals.State health minister Anil Vij, who also holds the home portfolio, tweeted that the tenders to buy the vaccine will be floated at the earliest.He had recently said that about 1.1 crore people in state are in the 18-44 age bracket.Khattar said about 47 lakh doses have been administered so far. The CM said the villages are witnessing frequent movement of people and thus are becoming Covid hotspots. “It is important to keep a close watch on outsiders coming to villages as such people are becoming a threat to other villagers,” he said.PRADHAN MANTRI JEEVAN JYOTI BIMA YOJANAKhattar on Thursday announced that the state government will pay premium for the Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana on behalf of the government.The CM urged the needy to go to banks and fill form so that they can get benefit of the scheme. Forms of this scheme can be filled by May 31.The first instalment of the premium should be in the account of the account holder. As soon as the instalment premium is deducted from the account, the premium amount will be deposited in the account by the government. The scheme is for people between the ages of 18-50 years with an annual premium of ₹330.For the eligible below poverty line (BPL) families, the premium of this scheme will be deposited in their account every year after deducting it from their account. Under the scheme, the family will get an insurance benefit of ₹2 lakh on death (due to any reason) of an eligible person in state.He said that the families who have lost members prematurely during the second wave of Covid and could not fill the form for benefit of this scheme will be given a benefit of ₹2 lakh by the state government.13,500 OF TOTAL OXYGEN BEDS IN STATE OCCUPIEDKhattar said there are 17,000 oxygen beds in private and government hospitals in state, of which about 13,500 beds are occupied by patients.He said that private hospitals contribute 60% of the arrangement of these oxygen beds but it is painful when it comes to notice that some hospitals are charging more than the rates fixed by the government.He added that strict action will be taken if anyone is caught doing such activities. He said that the ambulance rates are fixed and one should not charge more than the fixed price.Khattar said delivery of oxygen is being done at homes on doctor’s prescription. “By Thursday afternoon, 6,000 patients have registered for cylinders and more than 3,000 cylinders have been refilled and delivered,” he said.He added that the state government is making arrangements to set up isolation centres. Such centres are being constructed in rural areas, of which work has started on 1,000 sites.For this, the cooperation of panchayat representatives is being sought. ESI has received doctors and paramedical staff who will render their services in PHC and CHC in rural areas, the CM said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/only-6-lakh-vaccine-doses-received-for-18-people-in-haryana-101620923693887.html
13-05-2021||Chandigarh||12,286 fresh Covid cases, 16,041 recoveries reported in Haryana||The recoveries from Covid-19 on Thursday outpaced new cases in Haryana even as in the past 24 hours, 65,141 samples were taken and 12,286 fresh cases were detected while 16,041 patients recovered from the contagion.On Wednesday, Haryana had taken 68,122 samples and detected 12,490 new cases. The state has been registering more recoveries from the infection than the fresh cases since Monday.According to the health bulletin, on Thursday, 97,819 people were inoculated (55,569 with first dose) and the cumulative tally of people vaccinated was 47.56 lakh.The death toll mounted to 6,238 with 163 after people lost the battle to the infection in 21 districts barring Rewari.Among districts with highest deaths were Gurugram and Rohtak with 17 fatalities each, Hisar 14, Karnal 15 and Bhiwani 12.The active cases came down to 1,03,140 from 1,07,058 on Wednesday. The day’s positivity rate again dipped to 17.85% from 18.84% on Wednesday. The recovery rate also registered improvement as it rose to 83.55% from Wednesday’s 82.67%.On Thursday, at least 14 districts recorded more recoveries than fresh cases - Gurugram recorded 2,159 new cases, Faridabad 1,091, Sonepat 661, Hisar 1,166, Ambala 357, Karnal 521, Panipat 623, Rohtak 640, Rewari 173, Panchkula 291, Kurukshetra 211, Yamunanagar 369, Sirsa 1,350, Mahendergarh 560, Bhiwani 355, Jhajjar 418, Palwal 202, Fatehabad 401, Kaithal 116, Jind 416, Nuh 92, and Charkhi Dadri 114.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/12286-fresh-covid-cases-16-041-recoveries-reported-in-haryana-101620923572125.html
13-05-2021||Pune||Medical waste dumped at Taljai Pathar in Pune||Pune: Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has received a complaint regarding heaps of medical waste dumped in Taljai Pathar area. The civic administration has issued notices to some hospitals in the neighbourhood for the illegal activity. According to Vishal Shinde, city unit president of Janadhikar Sena, he had intercepted a PMC truck dumping medical waste around 3 am. The driver and mukadam incharge gave him evasive answers about the waste being thrown in the open in violation of Covid protocols. Shinde later lodged a complaint with the Bharati Vidyapeeth police station seeking an FIR against the civic staff. According to the complaint, dogs and pigs are seen scavenging the medical waste and later seen frequenting nearby residential areas. Following the complaint made to PMC deputy commissioner Ajit Deshmukh, the civic administration claimed to have issued notices to some nearby hospitals. Shinde claimed that medical and other waste are dumped by PMC trucks in the areas during night time. Shinde said, “While PMC is spending money on Covid treatment, it is unable to check illegal dumping of medical waste.” PMC senior health inspector Mangaldas Mane said, “Why the PMC vehicle of Kondhwa-Yeolewadi regional ward office went to Taljai Pathar is being probed. A show cause notice has been issued in this regard.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/medical-waste-dumped-at-taljai-pathar-in-pune-101620922371201.html
13-05-2021||Other||City’s Covid situation likely to affect Metro completion deadlines: Maha-Metro GM||PUNE Despite the severity of the second wave of Covid-19 in Pune, the Maharashtra Metro railway corporation (Maha-Metro), has been able to keep 3,200 labourers working in the city. This is 40 per cent of its workforce in Pune.Now there is uncertainty about meeting the deadlines on the priority Metro routes - PCMC to Phugewadi and Vanaz to Deccan Gymkhana. Hemant Sonawane, general manager, Maha-Metro, said, “Work is going on at different stages. We just have crossed beneath the Mula river. On the Vanaz to Ramwadi stretch, the Nal stop multi-storey flyover work is underway, while on the PCMC to Swargate stretch, Phugewadi station has been completed 90 per cent. But, due to Covid-19, we may miss the deadline. There will be delays due to slow work as we don’t know what the situation will be ahead.”In June 2020, of the metro’s 6,500 labourers, only 800 were on duty after the government made arrangements for trains. “This year, there are no restrictions on traveling and trains are also available,” said Sonawane.“We haven’t been affected badly this time. We vaccinated labourers and provided medical facilities, which helped us to keep a maximum number behind,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/citys-covid-situation-likely-to-affect-metro-completion-deadlines-maha-metro-gm-101620919431005.html
13-05-2021||Kolkata||‘Situation far worse’: Dhankar visits Cooch Behar, amps up attack on Mamata||West Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Thursday faced protests by a handful of Trinamool Congress (TMC) workers at Dinhata in north Bengal’s Cooch Behar district during his visit to meet victims of post-poll violence despite a strong advisory from chief minister Mamata Banerjee.The two exchanged strongly-worded letters on Wednesday evening. While Banerjee accused Dhankhar of violating protocols by planning to visit Cooch Behar without the state’s sanction, the latter accused Banerjee of showing no regard for the Constitution.On his visit, Dhankhar was accompanied by the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) Cooch Behar Lok Sabha member Nisith Pramanik and the party’s district unit president Malati Rava Roy. They took the governor to some villages where people alleged that TMC workers attacked them and ransacked their homes after the poll results were announced on May 2.Late on Thursday afternoon, about a dozen TMC workers shouted ‘go-back’ slogans at Dhankhar in Dinhata town. They were driven away from the sidewalk by the local police.“This is a serious security failure. This is a total collapse of rule of law. I never imagined this would happen,” the governor could be heard telling police officers deployed for his visit. He even got out of his car and stood in the middle of the road.“A dozen ruling party workers could stop my convoy, with no fear of law and police. Such state of affairs @MamataOfficial ! I had to intervene finding they were determined to involve with my security,” Dhankhar tweeted later in the evening.Pramanik, who accompanied the governor, contested the Dinhata assembly seat and defeated the TMC’s sitting legislator Udayan Guha by 57 votes. Guha suffered multiple fractures in his right arm and two of his security personnel were injured in the head when they were attacked, allegedly by BJP workers, on May 6. Denying the charge, BJP leaders said the attack was a fallout of infighting in TMC.Pramanik, however, did not take oath and resigned from the assembly on Wednesday to retain the Lok Sabha seat.In the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, the saffron camp bagged seven of north Bengal’s eight seats. In the assembly polls in north Bengal, the BJP won 30 of the region’s 54 assembly seats.On Thursday, black flags were shown to Dhankhar at Sitalkuchi where four villagers were killed in firing by Central Industrial Security Force personnel while polling was in progress on April 10. Dhankhar met the family of a young man who was murdered in Sitalkuchi on that day.“The law and order situation in this region is far worse than what I had thought,” Dhankhar said at a press conference in Cooch Behar’s Dinhata town in the evening. “The chief minister instigated her workers against the central forces. She also threatened to teach people a lesson after the central forces left Bengal. All this puts democracy in danger,” said Dhankhar.Reacting to the TMC demonstrations, Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh told a news channel that Cooch Behar resembles war-hit Syria. “Not even the governor can move freely in the region,” he said.Leaders of the TMC accused Dhankhar of being partisan.“The governor is behaving like a BJP cadre. He has violated all sections in the Constitution that define a governor’s role,” said TMC Lok Sabha member Saugata Roy.In his letter to the chief minister on Wednesday which announced his intention to go ahead with his Cooch Behar visit, Dhankhar had cited “inputs of rampant loot, arson, killings, rape and other horrendous acts against those in opposition to your party” to explain his decision.This was in reply to Banerjee’s letter in which she wrote that by unilaterally deciding to visit Cooch Behar, the governor was going to violate “well-established norms of protocol” and requested him to “desist from abrupt decisions with regard to field visits.”The BJP bagged 18 of Bengal’s 42 Lok Sabha seats in 2019 but could win only 77 assembly seats against the TMC’s 213. Elections were held in 292 of the state’s 294 assembly seats as two candidates for two seats in the Murshidabad district died of Covid-19. Polls in these constituencies will be held later. Polls will also be held at Khardah in North 24 Parganas as the winner, TMC leader Kajal Sinha, died of Covid-19.In addition to these three seats, the Dinhata seat in Cooch Behar and the Shantipur seat in Nadia district will also go to the polls again. Like Pramanik, Jagannath Sarkar, the BJP Lok Sabha member who won the Shantipur seat, also resigned from the assembly on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/situation-far-worse-dhankar-visits-cooch-behar-amps-up-attack-on-mamata-101620919016749.html
13-05-2021||Other||Pune-Mumbai special train cancelled due to poor response||PUNE The Pune Railway Division has cancelled the special train between Pune and Mumbai (02123/02124) from Friday, May 14. The train was running in place of the Deccan Queen Express. Due to a poor response, the Pune railway division took the decision. “The daily special train running between Pune and Mumbai, to and fro, was getting very few bookings. Occupancy was hardly 10 per cent. So it was decided to cancel the train from May 14 onwards, rather than face losses,” said Manoj Jhawar, Pune railway division spokesperson. “This train was running as per the timings of the Deccan Queen Express. Our appeal to passengers is not to panic as there are several other trains running between the two cities. These are the connecting trains and run at different times throughout the day,” added Jhawar. In April, other trains were cancelled due to poor response. These include the Pune-Nagpur weekly special train, Pune-Ajni weekly special train, Pune-Amravati weekly special train and Kolhapur-Nagpur bi-weekly special. All these trains were originating from the Pune railway division, but due less occupancy of less than 15 per cent, were cancelled.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punemumbai-special-train-cancelled-due-to-poor-response-101620918770989.html
13-05-2021||Other||Cyclone watch: Low- pressure area in Arabian Sea forecast to develop into storm by May 16||PUNE As per the India Meteorological Department (IMD), a low pressure area has formed over southeast Arabian Sea and adjoining Lakshadweep area on Thursday morning. This low-pressure area is likely to become well marked over Lakshadweep by May 14 morning and concentrate into a depression over the same region by May 15, intensifying into a cyclonic storm during the subsequent 24 hours. As per the met department, this depression is likely to move north-north-westwards towards Gujarat and adjoining Pakistan coasts. It is likely to reach the Gujarat coast by the evening of May 18, as per officials. “Light to moderate rainfall at many places with heavy rain fall at isolated places is very likely on May 15; and heavy to very heavy rainfall at a few paces on May 16 and May 17 is forecast,” said IMD officials. Met officials said that wind speed reaching 40-50 kmph i0s likely along south Maharashtra and Goa coasts on May 15. Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather forecasting, IMD, said that four divisions of Maharashtra will witness light to moderate rainfall. “In Konkan and Goa, there are chances of heavy rainfall after May 15. Ghat areas in Madhya Maharashtra will also experience heavy rainfall on and after May 15. Parts of Marathwada and Vidarbha will also be experiencing rainfall till May 16, with thunderstorm and lightning and gusty winds,” said Kashyapi. As per the weather department, Pune during this time, will witness cloudy weather towards evening and light rain with thunderstorms and lightning till May 18. Pune on Thursday reported a maximum temperature of 35.2 degrees Celsius. The minimum temperature was 22.4 degrees Celsius, as per IMD. The highest maximum temperature in Maharashtra on Thursday was reported at Chandrapur, at 42.8 degrees Celsius. The lowest minimum temperature was 17.6 degrees Celsius in Mahabaleshwar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cyclone-watch-low-pressure-area-in-arabian-sea-forecast-to-develop-into-storm-by-may-16-101620917930923.html
13-05-2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand's daily Covid deaths drop below 100 for 2nd time in May; toll at 4,182||Tribal-dominated Jharkhand on Thursday saw its fresh fatalities plunge below 100 for the second time in May at 97, with capital Ranchi also witnessing Covid-19 related deaths coming down to 19. This is a 22.72 per cent dip, compared to average fatalities during May so far, which has been around 125. The death toll in the state has climbed to 4,182, as per a Health Department bulletin. The state had recorded 97 fatalities on May 10 also. To date this month, the highest number of 159 deaths was recorded on May 2. Battling sharp surge in Covid-19 cases during the second wave, the state government has extended the lockdown-like restrictions with stricter provisions, including seven days mandatory quarantine for people visiting the state, till May 27. The state has suspended the operation of intra and inter- city bus services and put a cap on people attending weddings at 11, lower from earlier 50 persons, with the provision that marriages can be conducted either at homes or at courts. The state's positive tally has climbed to 3,01,257 with 4,362 new cases, the health department said in the bulletin. The mineral-rich state now has 50,467 active cases, while the number of cases declared recovered and discharged so far stand at 2,46,608, it said. Ranchi district again recorded the maximum number of new fatalities at 19, but it was much below 36, recorded a day before. East Singhbhum recorded 18 fatalities, followed by nine in Dhanbad and eight in Bokaro. Giridih, Ramgarh and Garhwa saw six, five and four deaths each, respectively. Three deaths each were reported from Deoghar, Hazaribag, Latehar, Palamu, Saraikela and West Singhbhum. Jamtara, Khunti, Koderma and Lohardaga recorded two deaths each, while Dumka and Simdega registered one death each, as per the bulletin. Altogether, 75,25,753 samples have been tested in Jharkhand thus far, including 48,005 since Wednesday, it added. The mortality rate in the state remained higher at 1.38 per cent as against the nation's 1.10 per cent, while the recovery rate from the deadly virus stood at 81.85 per cent against India's 83 per cent. The decision to impose lockdown with stricter provisions was made at a meeting of the State Disaster Management Authority, chaired by Chief Minister Hemant Soren, to curb the further spread of the deadly virus. The curbs imposed as 'Health Safety Week' from May 16 will have firm conditions, while previous restrictions that were announced till May 13 will now continue till May 16. "The new restrictions include mandatory 7 days home or institutional quarantine for people visiting the state barring those who will leave the state within 72 hours," a state government official said. Operations of inter-state and intra-state buses have been suspended while private vehicles will have to obtain e-passes for plying. Organising any ceremony during weddings will also be prohibited in the state. Under the stricter provisions, social distancing norms will be implemented strictly. The state has already prohibited all indoor and outdoor congregations of more than five persons. The restrictions first imposed as Health Safety Week till April 28 had been expanded earlier till May 6 and then till May 13. All education centres and coaching institutions were closed, and all examinations postponed. Cinema halls, multiplexes, stadiums, gymnasiums, swimming pools and parks, among others, had also been closed in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/jharkhands-daily-covid-deaths-drop-below-100-for-2nd-time-in-may-toll-at-4182-101620916447056.html
13-05-2021||Other||Complaints of crowding, no Covid norms followed at Kondhwa, NIBM and Salunke Vihar||PUNE Residents of Kondhwa, NIBM and Salunke Vihar are defying lockdown norms, flouting social distancing and not wearing masks.Mornings see the market areas crowded with a large number of hawkers on road spaces not allocated for business. On NIBM road hawkers and residents are out till late in the afternoon.Sudhakar Bhosale, senior citizen and resident of the area, said, “The market at Salunke Vihar is overcrowded and neither PMC nor the police department wants to take any action. Citizens feel that they have every right to break restrictions.”Social activist and resident of Kondhwa, Sameer Khan, said, “Kondhwa and NIBM road have become spots of overcrowding and violation of social distancing norms. We want authorities to act in the larger interests of public health and safety.” Inspector Sardar Patil, incharge of the Kondhwa police station, said, “Based on the information received about overcrowding, action will be taken against violators.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/complaints-of-crowding-no-covid-norms-followed-at-kondhwa-nibm-and-salunke-vihar-101620917390835.html
13-05-2021||Other||State approves sale of Balewadi land for Hinjewadi to Shivajinagar Metro route||PUNE The state government has approved the sale of land in Balewadi for the Pune Mahanagar Regional Development Authority’s (PMRDA) Hinjewadi to Shivajinagar Metro route.This route is being developed as a joint venture between the Tata group and Siemens. On Wednesday, at a state cabinet meeting, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray passed the proposal to sell 4.75 hectares for commercial use to Tata and Siemens at a concessional rate. Suhas Diwase, chief executive officer (CEO) of PMRDA said, “The companies will use the land for commercial purposes. At present, work on a casting yard is on. Actual work on the metro corridor will start soon.”The state is using the “design, build, finance, operate and transfer (DBFOT)” model for such land acquisitions. Earlier, PMRDA had declared that a metro facility between Shivajinagar and Hinjewadi will be operational by March 2023. However, due to a delay in acquisition of land, it took time to start actual work. PMRDA has estimated 30,000 passengers per hour during peak hours in its detail project report (DPR) on this route. PMRDA needs to acquire a total 9,579 sqkm from various establishments. Till date, PMRDA has acquired 1,94.9sqm from the Khadi Gram Udyog. They have also sent compulsory acquisition notices to the remaining land owners under Section of 11 of the Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act.Vivek Kharwadkar, chief engineer, PMRDA, said, “Work is going on in full swing.”In 2018, the Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority (PMRDA) signed a contract with Tata and Siemens for the project to be developed on a public- private partnership model to decongest traffic in the city by improving connectivity within the metropolitan region. The proposed route is 23.3km elevated track between Hinjewadi and Shivajinagar. It will take less than 40 minutes to cover the distance from the civil court in Shivajinagar to the Hinjewadi IT Park.The route will have 23 elevated stations. The project is estimated at ₹8,100 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/state-approves-sale-of-balewadi-land-for-hinjewadi-to-shivajinagar-metro-route-101620916910810.html
13-05-2021||Delhi||Covid-19: People in 18-44 age group ‘anxious’ as Delhi sees shortage of Covaxin||The news of Covaxin stocks running dry in Delhi has left people in the 18-44 age group worried, with many saying on Twitter that they would be "left in a lurch" if their wait for the second dose gets "infinitely delayed".Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Wednesday announced that people under the age of 45 will not be able to get Covaxin shots from Thursday, saying its manufacturer Bharat Biotech has refused to provide "additional" vaccine doses to the city government.With covaxin's stock finished, the Delhi government temporarily closed down around 100 centres administering the vaccine on Wednesday. "I got my first dose of Covaxin day before yesterday now I am concern how I will get my second dose as you know Covaxin have stopped the supply to Delhi(sic)," tweeted Abdul Basit."I got covaxin in Delhi a week ago. I'm worried thinking if there is a plan or data maintained how many covaxin or covishield ll be required when we all become eligible for the second dose. Scared to think we might miss the window due to non availability of the required one then," tweeted Baba TJ.Senior Congress leader Abhishek Manu Singhvi wrote: "Big issue as Delhi has already run out of Covaxin. What about people who got their first doses, is their second dose indefinitely delayed? What is the Centre/ State's take on it??".As per the protocols, there should be 28-days gap between the two doses of Covaxin. Around 90 lakh people are eligible for the inoculation under the 18-44 age group in the national capital.Twenty eight-year-old Nisha Siaini, who till Wednesday thought of herself and her husband as "extremely lucky" to have successfully found a slot for vaccination, is now worried about the availability of the second dose.She is afraid that the shortage of vaccines will "create doubt among those who want to take Covaxin in the future"."Those who have taken Covaxin have been left in lurch. There is no surety that we will be able to get the 2nd dose on time. Also, we cannot even take any other vaccine. This will create doubt among those who want to take Covaxin in the future," said Nisha, a professional banker, who got her first jab along with her husband on May 5. "The only answer to this problem is that the Centre help the company ramp up production or ask other companies to manufacture Covaxin," she suggested.Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday had suggested that the Centre share the anti-COVID-19 vaccine formula of the two manufacturers with other companies in the country to scale up production.The situation is more grave for those who are already due for the second dose of Covaxin and are running from pillar to post for vaccination. "#Kejriwal I got my first dose of covaxin on 5th of April at Bhagwati hospital sec.13 Rohini. My second dose is due now they are saying We have no vaccine. Now where to get vaccine," tweeted Ashwani Rampal."Dear Mr. Kejriwal, Please help us to get 2nd doss of Covaxin for my Parents. From last three days we are visiting centres even with the appointment slip of Cowin. However, they respond that Vaccine is finished. 1/2 @ArvindKejriwal @PMOIndia @AamAadmiParty @msisodia," tweeted Hardik Arora."My mom and grandma got first dose covaxin a month ago, My booking of second dose got automatically cancelled 2 times and now they are no slots left. What do we do now? wouldn't this waste millions of vaccines if someone is unable to get the 2nd dose on time? - Delhi Resident," tweeted Kumar Gaurav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covid19-people-in-18-44-age-group-anxious-as-delhi-sees-shortage-of-covaxin-101620915800297.html
13-05-2021||Other||Man held for firing outside Bansode’s office files complaint of attempted murder against MLA’s son||In light of a case of attempted murder of Pimpri legislator Anna Bansode, two separate cases of attempted murder have now been registered against Bansode’s son, Siddharth Bansode, by the Pimpri Chinchwad police on Wednesday.Tanaji Pawar (39) a resident of Santnagar in Moshi was arrested for firing at the legislator in his office on Wednesday afternoon. He was detained and the weapon in his possession seized.Pawar is a supervisor-manager at a company called AG Enviro which takes up contracts from the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation. After the firing, Bansode spoke with the local journalists to state that Pawar had come to his office in the Fintech building in Kalbhornagar, Chinchwad, for a meeting. However, Pawar told the police that Bansode’s son and his accomplice had kidnapped him from his office in Akurdi and brought him near Bansode’s office in Chinchwad.While Pawar was booked with two other people, identified as Sanket Shashikant Jagtap and Shrinivas Biradar, Siddharth Bansode was booked along with 10-15 others.Pawar told the police that he was picked up from his office by Siddharth Bansode and his supporters around 11am on Wednesday. He was allegedly beaten up with with a leather belt, metal rods, wooden rods, and a long blade, according to his complaint.While Pawar was booked under Sections 307, 504, 506, and 34 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Section 27 of the Arms Act; Siddharth Bansode and associates have been booked under Sections 364, 207, 504, 506, of the IPC, and relevant sections of the Arms Act, Epidemic Diseases Act, National Disaster Management Act, and Maharashtra Covid19 Regulations, 2020. A case has been registered against Siddharth Bansode at Pimpri police station.Additionally, an employee at Pawar’s company has lodged a separate complaint based on which another case was registered at the Nigdi police station against Siddharth Bansode and MLA Bansode’s personal assistant.She mentioned in her complaint that 10 men arrived in two cars and one motorbike at their office near Hegdevar Bhavan in Akurdi and assaulted four employees. The female complainant claimed that the men kept asking for whereabouts of Pawar and threatened to kill him.A case under Sections 307, 325, 452, 269 and other relevant Sections of IPC, Criminal Law Amendment Act, Epidemic Diseases Act, National Disaster Management Act, and Maharashtra Covid19 Regulations, 2020 was registered against Bansode at Nigdi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/man-held-for-firing-outside-bansode-s-office-files-complaint-of-attempted-murder-against-mla-s-son-101620915470719.html
13-05-2021||Patna||Bihar extends Covid-19 lockdown: What’s allowed and what’s not||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar announced on Thursday that a state-wide lockdown, in effect since May 5 to curb the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), is being extended by 10 days, till May 25. Originally scheduled to end on Saturday, the lockdown will enter extended phase from May 16 onwards.Also Read | Bihar extends Covid-19 lockdown by 10 days till May 25The Bihar government has released guidelines that will be in effect during this 10-day period, according to news agency ANI. Here’s a look:(1.) All state government offices will remain closed. However, essential services such as district administration, police, civil defence, water supply, sanitation, fire services, health, veterinary clinics, disaster management etc. shall be exempted from the purview of the lockdown.(2.) With regards to judicial administration, decisions taken by the Bihar high court shall be applicable.(3.) Shops and establishments -- commercial and private -- shall be closed. Exemptions include banking and insurance services, non-banking financial services, industrial and construction works, e-commerce, agriculture, print and electronic media, telecommunication, petrol and LPG filling stations etc.(4.) Retail shops and fruit and vegetable shops can open in urban areas from 6am-10am, while in rural areas, these shall operate from 8am-12noon. Lockdown guidelines shall not be applicable on cold storage, ware-housing services and private security services.(5.) Hospitals and related health facilities shall continue to function normally. However, all non-essential travel (including on foot) shall be completely prohibited.(6.) No vehicular movement shall be allowed. However, public transportation services can operate at 50% passenger capacity. Only those who have to catch trains or board flights shall be all allowed to take public transport services.(7.) Exemptions: Ambulances and vehicles involved in health services, private vehicles with e-pass issued by district administration, heavy goods vehicles, private vehicles in which passengers travelling to airports/railway stations (with valid tickets), heavy goods vehicles etc.(8.) All schools, colleges, coaching institutions and other educational institutions to be closed, and no examinations shall be conducted. Restaurants and eateries shall be closed, with only home delivery permitted from 9am-9pm. “Dhabas” on national highways can open.(9.) All religious places, cinema halls, malls, clubs, swimming pools, stadia, gyms, parks and gardens shall be closed. Also, all religious, political, entertainment, sports, educational, cultural and other events are disallowed.(10.) Not more than 20 attendees are allowed at weddings or funerals. No DJs and “baraats” shall be allowed for weddings and the local police station shall have to be informed at least three days in advance.Any violation of any of the aforementioned guidelines shall invite prosecution under the Disaster Management Act. According to a health department bulletin on May 12, Bihar’s Covid-19 tally stood at 622,433. This includes 519,306 recoveries, 99,623 active cases and 3,503 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-extends-covid-19-lockdown-what-s-allowed-and-what-s-not-101620914370997.html
13-05-2021||Other||Retired ACP denies accusations of assault against SC/ST community member||PUNE A case of assault and atrocity against a person from a community belonging to the scheduled caste and scheduled tribes has been registered against a retired assistant commissioner of police at Wakad police station. The retired ACP, GS Madgulkar has, however, refuted all claims against him.“This is all imaginary and (it is a) bogus matter, (the case has been) deliberately registered by the complainant. The truth will come out in the police investigation,” said Madgulkar in a text message on a public social media group.A case under relevant Sections of Indian Penal Code and Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989, has been registered at Wakad police station.The case was registered based on a complaint by Vishal Nany Waghmare (32), a resident of Wakad.The cause of friction is the ownership of a disputed piece of land in Wakad gaonthan, which Madgulkar allegedly purchased recently.As per the complaint, on February 25, Madgulkar and four others allegedly tried to run over Waghmare with a car that one of them was driving.Madgulkar and the others then allegedly beat up Waghhmare and broke bottles on his head. His brother Tushare Waghmare, who tried to stop the fight, was also beaten up by Madgulkar, according to the complaint.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/retired-acp-denies-accusations-of-assault-against-sc-st-community-member-101620914810726.html
13-05-2021||Other||27-yr old Chembur resident held for cheating people posing as IT officer||PUNE: A 27-year-old man has been arrested by the Pune police crime branch for posing as an income tax officer, and duping multiple people. While he is involved in three cases, he is suspected to have duped at least 10 others in various parts of the country.The man has been identified as Rahul Kiran Sarate (27), a resident of Siddharth Colony in Chembur, according to police. The man is in the custody of the crime branch until Friday, according to police.“He was found to have told people about him being an income tax officer and accepted money through Google Pay and cheated multiple people. At times, he had also mimicked the voice of a female GST officer and cheated people,” read a statement from the Pune police crime branch.He was arrested under Sections 385 (extortion by putting any person in fear of injury); 419 (impersonation); and 170 (impersonating a public servant) of the Indian Penal Code, registered at Hadapsar police station. A complaint in the matter was lodged by a jeweller in Hadapsar area who claimed to have received a call from an unknown number. The caller identified himself as income tax officer Rajendra Kadam.Sarate then told the jeweller that he had received a complaint from a female customer that the gold jewellery she had bought was of lesser quality than was promised to her, according to the complainant.In order to prevent the shop from being sealed, the man demanded ₹37,200.Upon his arrest, two other cases were brought to light - one each in Andheri police station of Mumbai and Bengaluru city police station. Both the cases were registered in the past few months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/27yr-old-chembur-resident-held-for-cheating-people-posing-as-it-officer-101620914390723.html
13-05-2021||Other||Journo booked for alleged extortion of ₹5 lakh from doc running Pimpri Covid centre||PUNE A 43-year-old journalist working at a local Marathi newspaper has been booked by the Pimpri-Chinchwad police on Thursday, for allegedly accepting ₹5 lakh from a doctor who worked at the Covid centre run by the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) at the Auto Cluster in Pimpri.The man’s identity is being withheld.A complaint in the matter was lodged by Dr Amol Ashok Holkunde (38), a resident of Sparsh Hospital in Somatne, Maval.The accused allegedly threatened the doctor and his colleagues with negative news articles against the working of the Covid centre. The stories, he threatened, would be used to get the contract of the Dr Holkunde’s hospital with the PCMC to run the Covid centre cancelled.The administrator of the centre, Vinod Adaskar, has text and WhatsApp messages from November 27, 2020 and December 8, 2020, allegedly from the accused, that he has started raising complaints about the Covid centre and would ensure bills of the hospital do not get cleared.On February 23, the officials of Sparsh hospital allegedly paid ₹2 lakh in cash and moved ₹3 lakh to Bhakre’s private account through an NEFT transfer, according to the complaint.Sub inspector Sawan Kumar Waghmare of Pimpri police station, who is investigating the case, said, “We have not yet arrested the person. He is a reporter at a Marathi daily newspaper. We are not sure why the doctors did not come forward earlier. We are investigating the claims.”A case under Section 384 (extortion) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Pimpri police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/journo-booked-for-alleged-extortion-of-rs-5-lakh-from-doc-running-pimpri-covid-centre-101620914030650.html
13-05-2021||Other||Lion found Covid-19 positive at Rajasthan’s Nahargarh Biological Park||Tripur, a lion at Rajasthan’s Nahargarh Biological Park, was found Covid-19 positive on Thursday, a state forest department statement said even as the park has been closed since April 17 on the government’s directions.The confirmation of the infection came days after samples of lions (Tripur, Tara, and Shristi), and tigers (Rambha, Mehak, Nahar, Rani), white tiger (Chinu), and panther (Krishna) at the park were sent to Bareilly’s Indian Veterinary Research Institute (IVRI) for Covid-19 testing on the directions of Central Zoo Authority. The animals were asymptotic when their samples were taken. The IVRI has asked for fresh samples of Chinu, Tara, and Krishna.Also Read | UK variant of Covid-19 detected in samples sent from Rajasthan for genome sequencingThe statement said the animals are having a normal diet and remained asymptomatic and that they were being given medicine to boost their immunity.Chief Wildlife Warden ML Meena said they were following the guidelines and the person feeding the animals wears personal protection equipment.Eight Asiatic lions at the Hyderabad Zoo tested positive this month for Covid-19, in the first such case in the country, prompting the Union environment ministry to order the closure of all national parks, sanctuaries, and national zoological parks in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/lion-found-covid-19-positive-at-rajasthan-s-nahargarh-biological-park-101620908990921.html
13-05-2021||Bangalore||K'taka health minister Sudhakar seeks IISc's support in combating Covid crisis||Karnataka health minister Dr K Sudhakar on Thursday interacted with Indian Institute of Science (IISc) Director Prof Govindan Rangarajan to seek premier science institute's support in tackling the second wave of the Covid-19 across the state.According to the professor, various researches are being carried out by the scientists at IISc which include designing a more efficient oxygen concentrator and also a vaccine for Covid-19 that can be stored at room temperature upto 30 degree Celsius.He informed that IISc has developed an oxygen concentrator of 10 LPM capacity which is being tested for its clinical validation at Bangalore Medical College, as per an official release.Professor Rangarajan said that the results have been promising and claimed that the oxygen output is about 90 per cent and hence more efficient compared to the Chinese concentrators whose output is about 40-50 per cent.He has sought the support of the health minister to expedite the process of clinical validation and also help in obtaining regulatory approval from the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) for its emergency use.Dr Sudhakar has assured all necessary support from the government and said he will take up the matter immediately with Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences (RGUHS) Vice-Chancellor and concerned Union Ministers."As for the Covid-19 vaccine, Rangarajan apprised the minister about the ongoing efforts. The vaccine being developed by IISc is promising as the results show a better neutralising effect than the existing vaccines. This vaccine which is yet to begin the human trial process could be a big breakthrough in India's battle against pandemic as the vaccine can be stored in room temperatures up to 30," read the release.From a public health point of view this is a huge advantage as it enables the government to scale up the distribution of vaccines in a much faster and easier way, stated the professor.The health minister has also sought help from the institute in developing an audit mechanism for oxygen generation plants and finding ways for optimal utilisation of oxygen and minimise wastage at both refilling/bottling units and at hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/ktaka-health-minister-sudhakar-seeks-iisc-s-support-in-combating-covid-crisis-101620908183175.html
13-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi schools go the extra mile for students who lost parents to Covid||From organising online prayer meets for students who lost their parents to Covid to ensuring constant communication with them, schools in the national capital are taking various steps to ensure emotional and mental support for these children to process their grief.Tania Joshi, principal of The Indian School, said at least six students in her school have lost one of their parents this month. “These deaths can weigh heavily on the minds of children and there has to be a specialised approach because every situation is different. We have asked teachers to be in touch with these students and their families. Many families are still in shock and we will encourage them to opt for counselling when they are ready,” she said.The surge in Covid fatalities is reflected in official figures shared by the Delhi government which show that 5,120 people died in April while the number has reached 3,197 between May 1 and 9 this year.Ameeta Wattal, principal of Springdales Pusa Road, said the school tries to be the first contact for the child after they receive information of a parent’s death. “We have created WhatsApp groups where teachers inform us if there has been a death of a parent. We first call the immediate relatives of the parent to get stock of the situation there, ask about the child, and assure the family of any assistance they need,” she said.The school then gets in touch with the classmates and their parents to find out the child’s closest friends and establish a peer group. The peer group is then instructed to keep the child engaged and busy through conversation, activities and group phone calls as it is easier for them to talk to someone their age. The school also organises virtual prayer meetings for children and is planning on a “concert of hope”.Also Read | Delhi’s daily Covid-19 cases fall to 10,489; positivity rate below 15%“We will share photographs of those who have lost their lives to Covid and bring the children together on a platform so that they can share their grief. The death of a parent involves more than mental health issues. Their entire lives will change because of this,” she said.Psychologist Manveen Kaur, who is the counsellor at Amity International School in Saket, said that dealing with death is more difficult with children as they often don’t understand their emotions or are unable to identify or communicate it, leading to behavioural changes.“If grief counselling is not done in the right way, it would have long-term adverse effects like longstanding depression and anxiety in children, trust issues in life and can become a part of their personality,” she said, adding that they are doing family therapy with such children and their immediate family members.“The family members are the immediate contact of the children and need to be counselled on how to behave with them and involve them in daily activities or look for changes in their behaviour,” she said.Divya Bhatia, principal of Amity International School in Saket, said the school is planning voluntary group therapy sessions where children can share their grief together.Also Watch | ‘Delhi’s oxygen demand down to 582MT, divert surplus to others’: Manish SisodiaSchools are also helping students with other necessities during the pandemic. “From providing cooked meals for the families who tested positive to arranging for medicines, oxygen or cremation facilities, we have a dedicated cell looking into the various needs which came up during the pandemic,” said Alka Kapur, principal of Modern Public School, Shalimar Bagh.Government schools in the capital have also asked their teachers to maintain communication with children and parents despite the ongoing summer vacation. Sarita Batra, principal at Rajkiya Pratibha Vikas Vidyalaya in Shalimar Bagh, said the school management committee has also been active in keeping tabs on the children to see if they need any help.“We have been recording motivational stories on fighting these challenging times and sending them to children. Sometimes, we also discuss stories on video conferencing platforms with each section and turn this into a storytelling session, allowing children to express themselves. Our teachers also record voice messages for the children on WhatsApp and motivate them to not lose hope,” she said.The Central Board of Secondary Education also launched a mobile application for students of classes 9 to 12 on Monday to look at the psychosocial wellness of students. The app offers counselling sessions, educational material on social, emotional and behavioural issues such as depression, anxiety over exams and internet addiction disorder, among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-schools-go-the-extra-mile-for-students-who-lost-parents-to-covid-101620908691229.html
13-05-2021||Mumbai||BMC first municipal corporation in the world to float global tenders for Covid-19 vaccines, says mayor||Kishori Pednekar, Mayor of BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation, said BMC is the first municipal corporation in the world to float global tenders for Covid-19 vaccines.“We're the first municipal corporation in the world to invite global tender for vaccines,” news agency ANI said quoting Pednekar.Pednekar also laid down the guidelines for vaccine manufacturers. They will have to abide by the deadline of May 18 for submission of their bids for approval, she said, adding that once the work order reaches completion, the vaccine manufacturers will have to ensure delivery of vaccines under three weeks.Pednekar also said that manufacturers will have to install cold storage for the vaccines if and when needed, and the efficacy rates of the vaccines should not be lower than 60%.“We'll not give any advance payment. We will fine companies if they fail to deliver vaccines on time,” Pednekar was quoted as saying by ANI.The BMC on Wednesday floated a global tender for procuring 1 crore doses of Covid-19 vaccines for the citizens of Mumbai days after Mumbai's guardian minister Aaditya Thackeray said the civic body will be doing so.Mumbai had reported 2,116 cases of Covid-19 on Wednesday, taking the city wide tally to 6,82,102. 66 fatalities were also reported, the death toll now stands at 14,008. 4,293 patients have also recovered in the last 24 hours, taking the total number of recoveries to 6,27,373. BMC has demarcated a total of 80 containment zones in the city and sealed 444 buildings to tackle the surge of Covid-19 cases in Mumbai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bmc-first-municipal-corporation-in-the-world-to-float-global-tenders-for-covid-19-vaccines-says-mayor-101620906725434.html
13-05-2021||Bangalore||‘Will take 3-4 days to supply more vaccine doses to Karnataka’: Union minister||As Karnataka on Wednesday became the latest state to suspend vaccination against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) for 18-44 years due to lack of doses, Union minister for chemicals and fertilizers DV Sadananda Gowda said on Thursday that it will take another 3-4 days to provide more doses to the state.“In recent days, the production is not up to the expectations of the government. So, we could not provide vaccines. It will take another 3-4 days to provide more vaccines to Karnataka. Exact figures I can’t say,” Gowda, who is also the former chief minister of the state, was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Wednesday’s order to suspend vaccination for 18-44 years comes at a time when Karnataka is clocking a high number of cases and deaths daily and is the second worst-hit state from the pandemic. On Wednesday, 39,998 new cases were recorded and 517 more people succumbed to Covid-19. The state has only managed to inoculate over 10.9 million beneficiaries out of the total population of 64.1 million.Also Read| After Maharashtra, Karnataka suspends Covid vaccines for 18-44 from FridayGowda on Thursday admitted to the fact that certain vaccination centres in Karnataka are facing a "little bit of scarcity" regarding doses, adding that the allotment of vaccines will be made by the Centre on the basis of the production of the two manufacturing units.News agency PTI reported on Wednesday that due to a crunch in supply of doses, eligible beneficiaries across the state were being asked to leave vaccination centres after standing in long queues for hours. Chief minister B S Yediyurappa held a meeting in this regard and instructed officials to resolve confusion on the availability of vaccine doses.Also Read| Karnataka records nearly 40,000 new Covid-19 cases, 517 more deathsThe opposition Congress party, meanwhile, has accused the state government of not being able to supply vaccine doses and lashed out at its poor handling of the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/will-take-3-4-days-to-supply-more-vaccine-doses-to-karnataka-union-minister-101620907616717.html
13-05-2021||Chandigarh||FIR against TV actor Munmun Dutta under SC/ST Act in Hansi||TV serial Taarak Mehta Ka Ooltah Chashmah actress Munmun Dutta has been booked in Haryana’s Hansi town for making a casteist remark in a video she uploaded recently. Acting on the complaint of Dalit rights activist Rajat Kalsan, the case was registered under Section 3(1)(U) of the Scheduled Caste/Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities Act) for making the remark . Also read: Sputnik V Covid-19 vaccine to be available in market from early next week: GovtKalsan complained to the Hansi superintendent of police that sentiments of the Dalit community had been hurt by the actress and that she had defamed the community. “The actress has lakhs of followers, and she used such remarks only to defame us,” he said. Ram Phal, the inspector of Hansi city police station, confirmed that the FIR had been registered. On May 10, Dutta, who belongs to West Bengal, termed the remark unintentional. “Due to the language barrier, I was misinformed about the meaning of the word,” she said. Posting a note in English and Hindi on Twitter, the actor said that as soon as she was made aware of her mistake, she deleted the video. She said that she had “the utmost respect for everyone regardless of caste, creed or gender”. In February, the Hansi police had booked former cricketer Yuvraj Singh on a complaint filed by Kalsan under the SC/ST Act for making casteist remarks on social media during a chat with fellow cricketer Rohit Sharma in June last year. Singh had also apologised for the remarks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/fir-against-tv-actor-munmun-dutta-under-sc-st-act-in-hansi-101620907670877.html
13-05-2021||Chandigarh||Dera chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim discharged from Rohtak hospital||Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim was discharged from the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS ) in Rohtak and taken back to Sunaria jail under tight security on Thursday afternoon after doctors found his health parameters normal. The dera head was admitted to PGIMS on Wednesday evening after he complained of dizziness. Also read: Centre accepts panel’s recommendation to increase gap between Covishield dosesPGIMS medical superintendent Dr Pushpa Dahiya said the sect head had declined to undergo the Covid-19 test before he was admitted. “On Wednesday, we received calls from Sunaria prison officials that his blood pressure has dropped. We sent Dr Sandeep, who is a nodal officer, along with two physicians. They found his blood pressure to be normal and returned. We received another call from the jail in the evening and decided to bring Gurmeet Ram Rahim to PGIMS,” she said. A board of seven doctors was formed to treat him but he refused to give his swab samples for the rapid antigen test. “The doctors started the treatment after taking full precautions as the patient refused to undergo the Covid test,” she said. Gurmeet Ram Rahim has been jailed in Rohtak since 2017 after he was convicted of raping two women followers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dera-chief-gurmeet-ram-rahim-discharged-from-rohtak-hospital-101620905810693.html
13-05-2021||Lucknow||UP village in panic as Covid-19 cases surge in rural areas||The lanes of Mauaima village in Uttar Pradesh’s Prayagraj, which are normally abuzz with activities, wore a deserted look. Residents were not even letting children step out of their homes as fear has gripped the village amid rising Covid-19 cases in rural areas.Tirthraj Yadav, 36, the newly elected village head, said the residents were scared of symptoms associated with Covid-19--cough, fever, and body aches--which are otherwise dismissed as normal and associated with changing seasons. Yadav blamed lack of education for misconceptions about the disease, which have added to the panic. He added many believe that if one person of a family tested positive for Covid, the kin will also be sent to hospitals. Yadav said misinformation that free vaccination can make one sicker, etc has also made people in rural areas reluctant to undergo voluntary testing. “Many hide their symptoms and try to get themselves treated on their own, which has cost them, dear,” said Yadav.The villages under the Mauaima village council, which have a population of 25,000, have officially reported around six Covid-19 deaths. But residents say the number is around four times higher. The last rites of many people, who have died, have been performed hurriedly over the last few weeks.Yadav said the deaths of three members of a family triggered much panic. “If one goes by cremations and burials, we have had around 25 deaths in the last few months...most of them died after showing symptoms like fever, cough, and breathing trouble. But their kin preferred to not get them tested.”Also Read | Uttar Pradesh reports 17,775 Covid-19 cases, 281 related fatalitiesMuhammad Waseem, 42, of the nearby Bataha Majra, said around 500 people in his village have contracted Covid or showed its symptoms. “But merely one in five went to the Community Health Centre (CHC), which has free Covid-19 testing, treatment, and vaccination facilities,” said Waseem, who owns around 100 power looms. Waseem said unfounded fears were deterring people from seeking treatment. “Without any logic, many believe that the vaccine would make them sicker. Some just do not want to send their sick kin to hospitals. I have tried to convince people to make use of the free services, but it is tough to get them to change their minds.”Phool Chandra Yadav, 50, a resident of Khakri Matpur Majra village, echoed Yadav and Waseem.Dr Ram Gopal Verma, the CHC in charge, said they were conducting house-to-house testing with the help of 160 teams. “Around 320 tests are being performed at the centre daily on average,” Verma said. He added the second phase of a state-wide drive to identify Covid-19 patients was underway. “We have divided our block into seven zones, and each is being covered. It is possible that a few houses may not have been covered yet, but by the time the second phase gets over, all homes would be covered.”Verma said four to six Covid-19 cases were being detected daily. “However, lack of cooperation from people under the Mauaima Gram Panchayat has been a challenge for us. We have instances where people found with symptoms have been given medicine kits and asked to get tested. But they refused to turn up for tests after getting relief from medicines. Many times, despite an ambulance being ready, positive patients and their kin simply refuse to go to the hospital and get into altercations. However, our efforts are on with help of police and district administration officials.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/up-village-in-panic-as-covid-19-cases-surge-in-rural-areas-101620903171305.html
13-05-2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh reports 17,775 Covid-19 cases, 281 related fatalities||Uttar Pradesh on Thursday recorded 17,775 fresh Covid-19 cases that pushed the infection count to 15,80,980, while 281 new fatalities took the death toll to 16,646 in the state, officials said.The number of active cases in the state has come down by over 1.06 lakh in the past 12 days, Additional Chief Secretary, Health, Amit Mohan Prasad said.The Covid-19 recovery rate now stands at 86 per cent in Uttar Pradesh, he said.On April 30, there were about 3.10 lakh active cases, and the number currently stands at 2,04,658, the official said.With this, the total number of patients in the state who have recovered from the infection has risen to 13,59,676, Prasad said.In the past 24 hours, while the state reported 17,775 fresh cases, 19,425 people recovered from the disease, he saidSo far, over 4.39 crore samples have been tested in the state and it includes the more than 2.53 lakh samples tested on Wednesday, Prasad said.Of the fresh cases, 1,45,108 are in home isolation, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uttar-pradesh-reports-17-775-covid-19-cases-281-related-fatalities-101620901798870.html
13-05-2021||Other||Guest column: As Goa battles Covid storm, nobody steering the ship to safety||As many as 75 persons died due to Covid-19 in Goa on Tuesday, May 11, making it the highest single-day death toll for the state in the pandemic so far.The total death toll caused due to the pandemic now stands at 1,805. The state also recorded as many as 3,124 Covid positive cases on the same day (May 11), taking its total active cases to 32,836. The positivity rate in the state till a few days ago, was hovering around the 50 per cent mark (every second person was testing positive), the highest in the country. For the smallest state in India, with a population of just 1.5 million people, these are very scary statistics indeed. Why does Goa find itself in this situation? Gross negligence and mismanagement of the Covid crisis by the state government. The BJP chief minister, Dr Pramod Sawant, the late Parrikar’s blue-eyed-boy, despite being a trained Ayurveda doctor, has displayed extremely poor leadership qualities in the face of the crisis. To make matters worse, both he and the state health minister, Vishwajit Rane, have never been on the same page ever since this pandemic began. They have held contrary views and opinions and have worked at cross purposes, sadly at the cost of human lives. Sample the latest. Rane made a striking statement to the local media on Tuesday (May 11) that 26 Covid patients had died in the state’s premier medical institution, Goa Medical College (GMC), due to oxygen supply problems. Instead of rolling up his sleeves and solving the problem, which is his ministry’s biggest challenge, Rane has chosen to take three steps backwards and instead has sheepishly asked the Bombay High Court (Goa bench) to conduct a probe into the matter of poor oxygen supplies at the GMC. The chief minister on the other hand, in response to the poor oxygen supply situation at GMC simply accused the hospital administration of “mismanagement”, refusing to acknowledge the repeated pleas of the GMC administration of inadequate oxygen supply. To make matters worse, Sawant has directed his ire at the lone company entrusted with the task of supplying oxygen to all state government medical facilities, blaming them for poor support. With the two worthies mentioned above having maximum executive powers to turn things around, but shrugging their basic responsibilities, the common man in Goa, whether in towns or villages, is at his/her wit’s end. However, this mismanagement of the Covid crisis in Goa began several months ago. Unknown to many, the Goa government’s financial status is at best precarious. Local media reports have consistently pegged the state’s current debt at a staggering ₹20,000 crore. Not surprisingly, Sawant opened up the tourism gates in October 2020. The big blunder, however, was that he did not insist on Covid negative certificates from visiting tourists. People in other parts of India welcomed this opportunity to let their hair down, and came in droves. The photographs of tourists cramming the north Goa beaches in the last week of December 2020, was akin to a mini-Kumbh Mela. Cheek by jowl and unmasked, tourists made merry on the beaches with zero policing by the state government. When the local media repeatedly badgered the chief minister for his continuing reluctance to insist on Covid-negative certificates from tourists, he would simply repeat his favourite line in Konkani, ad-nauseam, “Bhivpachi garaz naa!” (There is no need to be scared!) This lowering of the guard and non-insistence of a Covid-negative certificate had its obvious repercussions. Several staff members working on the casino boats on the river Mandovi tested positive for Covid. Believe it or not, but the Goa government actually granted permission to a casino to host a boxing tournament featuring India’s leading professional boxer Vijender Singh, complete with spectators, in mid-March this year.Also, as recently as April this year, local media consistently reported of bars and restaurants in north Goa crammed with tourists sans masks and no Covid SOPs in place, thanks to zero policing from the state government.To make matters worse, post the first Covid wave, the state government has also been guilty of not working to enhance local oxygen manufacturing facilities, increase hospital beds and recruit additional medical staff, despite several reminders and warnings from the state’s medical establishment. The result: Goa is facing its biggest health crisis to date and scarily, there does not seem to be anyone in charge. The author, a former newspaper editor and national-award winning journalist has been living in Goa since 2015. He can be contacted at writerrahul@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/guest-column-as-goa-battles-covid-storm-nobody-steering-the-ship-to-safety-101620901790681.html
13-05-2021||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh govt announces free education for kids orphaned due to Covid-19||Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Thursday announced that children who lost their parents or guardians to Covid will be provided free education and ₹5,000 monthly pension."We cannot leave such families, we are the government of the state and we will support these children" the Madhya Pradesh CM said, and added that such children need not worry, as they are the children of the state, and the state will take care of them."We will give ₹5000 per month pension to children who have lost their parents/guardians in this Covid pandemic. We'll also arrange free education for these children and free ration for these families," he further said.The chief minister also said that the state will grant loans to women, who want to work or start a business, on government guarantee.Meanwhile, Madhya Pradesh reported 8,970 fresh cases of Covid-19 and 84 fatalities on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/madhya-pradesh-govt-announces-free-education-for-kids-orphaned-due-to-covid19-101620899388714.html
13-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi’s daily Covid-19 cases fall to 10,489; positivity rate below 15%||Delhi on Thursday witnessed a sharp fall in its daily tally of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) after 10,489 new cases were reported, taking the caseload to 1,372,475, according to the health department's bulletin. The death toll rose to 20,618 after 308 people succumbed to the disease on Thursday while 15,189 more discharges took the total recoveries to 1,274,140, the bulletin showed.On Wednesday, 13,287 new cases were reported while on Tuesday 12,481 patients tested positive for the Covid-19 disease.The active cases in the national capital have declined to 77,717 and the positivity rate dropped below 15 per cent (14.24 per cent to be exact), the lowest since April 14. Since last week, the positivity rate has been declining in Delhi. The major reason for this decline is the imposition of complete lockdown which has also led to a decrease in the number of new cases. Currently, the lockdown is in force till May 17.Also Read| Covid cases dip, Delhi’s daily oxygen demand down to 582MT, says SisodiaA total number of 73,675 tests were conducted on Thursday of which 14,966 are rapid antigen tests while the remaining 58,709 are RT-PCR/CBNAAT/TrueNat tests, the bulletin added. The numbers of containment zones in Delhi are nearing 58,000 whereas 48,340 patients continue to remain in home isolation.Delhi’s daily requirement of medical oxygen dropped to 582 metric tonnes from 700 MT earlier, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said on Thursday and asked the Centre to allot the surplus supplies to other states that are in need of the live saving gas. He added at present the oxygen situation in Delhi has improved and more beds are available for the infected patients.However, in April, the health infrastructure of Delhi was stretched to the limit as hospitals as the number of Covid-19 cases rose at a fast pace. The Delhi government had the urged the Centre to increase its daily quota of oxygen and also sought help from other states.Also Read| Delhi’s Covid positivity rate declining, but we can’t be at ease: Satyendar JainMeanwhile, more than 4,222,308 beneficiaries have been vaccinated against the Covid-19 disease in Delhi till now. Amid an acute shortage of doses, the Aam Aadmi Party-led government temporarily closed 100 vaccination centres across Delhi meant for beneficiaries between 18-44 years due to lack of Covaxin doses which are produced by Bharat Biotech.Deputy CM Sisodia on Wednesday cited a letter from Bharat Biotech which stated it will not be available to provide vaccine doses to Delhi due to unavailability, under the orders of government officials. Sisodia said this meant that the Centre is controlling the supply of doses meant for states. He accused the Centre of mismanaging the vaccination process and said the export of 65 million doses to foreign nations was the biggest mistake.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-adds-10-489-new-covid-cases-308-more-deaths-positivity-rate-below-15-101620899499136.html
13-05-2021||Mumbai||Lockdown-like curbs in Maharashtra till June 1. What's allowed, what's not||The Maharashtra government on Thursday extended the lockdown-like restrictions till June 1, 7am to break the chain of transmission. The state government made it mandatory for everyone entering the state to carry a negative RT-PCR report.The government in the order said all the restrictions imposed under 'Break the Chain' orders dated April 13, 21 and 29, along with new additions will be imposed in the state till June 1. Earlier, the ongoing lockdown was supposed to end on May 15.Here's a list of new restrictions imposed in the state to control the curve of Covid-19 infections:Any person entering Maharashtra by any mode of transportation will be required to carry a negative RT-PCR report, which will have to be issued from up to a maximum of 48 hours before the time of entry into the state.Also watch | ‘Around 12 lakh waiting for 2nd dose of Covid vaccine in Maharashtra’: Nawab Malik﻿The restrictions that were earlier applicable to persons arriving from places of 'sensitive origin' will now be applicable to anyone arriving from any part of the country, the order stated.Not more than two people-driver, cleaner/helper- may be allowed to travel in the same, in case of cargo, carriers. If the cargo carriers are originating from outside the state, then a negative RT-PCR report will be required for entry. The test will have to be done from upto a maximum of 48 hours before the time of entry and will be valid for two days.Also read: Covid-19 lockdown in Bihar extended till May 25, announces CM Nitish KumarLocal DMA is required to keep a vigil on rural markets and APMCs for Covid appropriate behaviour. In case the DMA finds a place difficult to manage and discipline, he or she may decide on a case-to-case basis to shut them and impose further restrictions.Milk collection, transport and processing may be allowed without restrictions but its retail sale will be allowed subject to restrictions imposed on shops selling essentials goods or through home delivery.Personnel engaged in airport and port services and are needed for the movement of cargo related to medicines and equipment for Covid-19 management are allowed to travel through local, mono or metro services.Maharashtra on Wednesday reported 46,781 new Covid-19 cases and 816 fatalities, according to the state health bulletin. The active caseload of the state stands at over 546,000.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/lockdownlike-curbs-in-maharashtra-till-june-1-what-s-allowed-what-s-not-101620894717555.html
13-05-2021||Other||Kolhapur with highest Covid fatality rate in Maharashtra; experts visit city||The Maharashtra government has sent a team of doctors and experts from the divisional task force to Kolhapur as the district witnessed a sharp rise in the Covid-19 case fatality rate (CFR). The spike in CFR, the proportion of people who die from a disease among all diagnosed with it, is the highest in the state.According to Pune divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao, for a week now, Kolhapur has been witnessing a surge in the number of daily Covid cases and the average CFR is also above 3.4% against the state’s 1.3%. During the previous wave too, Kolhapur’s CFR touched 4%. “Team of experts from divisional task force, including state advisor for Covid Dr Subhash Salunkhe, Dr Arti Kinikar and Dr Dilip Kadam, visited Kolhapur to assess the reasons why its CFR is on the higher side. The team will submit its report within two days,” said Rao. Also Read | Maharashtra extends Covid-19 lockdown till June 1, mandates negative RT-PCRAs of Wednesday, Kolhapur district reported total 82,763 cases with 2,840 fatalities. From April 28 to May 4 and from May 5 to May 11, the state’s CFR was 1.34% and 1.32% respectively. “Kolhapur’s CFR from the same period was 2.3% and 2.9% respectively. But if we see the average, it is above 3.5%,” said Rao.Rao said there a pattern being witnessed with districts with fewer cases are now reporting higher numbers. “The surge in Pune district stated relatively earlier than any other districts in the division. Pune was followed by Solapur, Satara, and Sangli where cases saw a sharp rise, however, Kolhapur was at the lower side then. We are expecting that is going to follow the same trajectory,” he said.Among the reasons behind the high CFR, Rao said, could be late reporting, and migration of people from other destinations.In the first wave also, in the initial phase, the CFR of the Kolhapur district was on the higher side. “[During the first wave], there were complaints that senior doctors were not visiting patients. The task force was sent to avoid a repeat of that situation,” he said.“The team is also checking if there is any other variants in the region,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kolhapur-with-highest-covid-fatality-rate-in-maharashtra-experts-visit-city-101620896510350.html
13-05-2021||Patna||Bihar extends Covid-19 lockdown by 10 days till May 25||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar announced on Thursday that the statewide lockdown imposed to control the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), is being extended for 10 days - from May 16-25.Click here for full Covid-19 updates"Reviewed the ongoing lockdown in Bihar with ministerial colleagues and officials. We can see that the lockdown is having a positive impact. Therefore, we have decided to extend the lockdown in the state for 10 days, from May 16-25, 2021," a rough translation of Kumar's tweet, posted in Hindi, read.आज सहयोगी मंत्रीगण एवं पदाधिकारियों के साथ बिहार में लागू लॉकडाउन की स्थिति की समीक्षा की गयी। लॉकडाउन का सकारात्मक प्रभाव दिख रहा है। अतः बिहार में अगले 10 दिनों अर्थात 16 से 25 मई, 2021 तक लॉकडाउन को विस्तारित करने का निर्णय लिया गया है।On May 4, the Crisis Management Group of the Bihar government decided to impose a lockdown in the state, from May 5-15, amid a rise in daily Covid-19 cases. The government's decision, which was taken at a meeting presided over by chief secretary Tirupurari Sharan, came a day after it was pulled up by the Patna high court for "poor" handling of the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic.Also Read | Bihar announces 10-day lockdown after HC nudgeWhile Kumar, in his tweet, didn't announce relaxations and curbs which will be in effect during the extended phase, it is expected that the ones which were in effect in the first phase, will carry on.Follow all Live Covid-19 updates hereIn the first phase of the lockdown, all government and private offices were directed to be closed. Hospitals, medical laboratories, ambulance services and essential services such as civil defence, electric supply, water supply, fire services, veterinary work, postal and telecommunication etc. were allowed to function.Also, industrial and construction work, agricultural activities, e-commerce, computer services were allowed to function, while grocery shops, retail shops dealing with fruits and vegetables were allowed to operate from 7am to 11am.According to a Bihar health department bulletin on May 12, the state's Covid-19 tally stood at 622,433 as 9,863 more people tested positive for the viral disease on the day. The related death toll, meanwhile, reached 3,503 as 74 more people succumbed to the virus. Recoveries and active cases are at 519,306 and 99,623 respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/covid19-lockdown-in-bihar-extended-till-may-25-announces-cm-nitish-kumar-101620896101819.html
13-05-2021||Chandigarh||25-year-old woman shot dead in Amritsar||A 25-year-old woman was shot dead near Pandori Waraich village in Amritsar on Wednesday night, police said. The body of Amanpreet Kaur, a resident of Rishi Vihar, was found with a gunshot wound to her chest on the Amritsar-Majitha road on Thursday morning. The police recovered a pistol lying on her chest. Also read: As states float global tenders, uncertainty persists over vaccine suppliesAmanpreet was married and her husband is an auto-rickshaw driver. The couple has a five-year-old son. She had been working at a beauty salon at Pandori Adda for the past three years. According to family members, Amanpreet had called them up on Wednesday evening to say that the salon was closed, and she was on the way to attend a customer at her home. When she didn’t return home at night, the family members went out in search of her but in vain. Around 8am on Thursday, a call was received at the Kambo police station that a body of a woman was lying near Pandori Waraich. Deputy superintendent of police (headquarters) Baldev Singh, who reached the spot with other police personnel, said, “Preliminary investigation rules out sexual assault. The post-mortem report is awaited. We are close to cracking the case as we have found clues.” Amanpreet and her husband had been living with her parents. “The incident looks to have occurred late on Wednesday night,” said Kambo station house officer Yadwinder Singh. A case was registered under Sections 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Sections 25-54-59 of the Arms Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/25yearold-woman-shot-dead-in-amritsar-101620895190084.html
13-05-2021||Delhi||Covid cases dip, Delhi’s daily oxygen demand down to 582MT, says Sisodia||The Delhi government on Thursday said it has scaled down its requirement of medical oxygen from 700MT to 582MT in view of the declining daily Covid-19 cases in the national Capital. “As of today, the positivity rate has come down to 14% and around 10,400 new Covid-19 cases were reported. Now that cases are reducing, we are seeing a decrease in demand for beds and medical oxygen. When daily cases were peaking around 15 days ago, our calculations, factoring in bed occupancy and active cases, showed Delhi required 700MT of oxygen. But today, after assessment of the Covid-19 situation, Delhi’s oxygen need has been revised to 582MT per day. As a responsible government, we will give the surplus oxygen to the states who need it,” deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said in a press briefing on Thursday. On an average, Delhi is now getting 579.25MT oxygen on a daily basis, of which 42% is being supplied by the railways and 58% is coming through roadways, data showed. Until last week, the share was 29% through railways and 71% through roadways. Also Read | Kejriwal asks ‘where is India’ as states float global tenders for Covid vaccinesThe hospital bed occupancy in the city is fluctuating between 19,000-20,000, records showed. Sisodia said the Delhi government has also written to the Centre about the revised oxygen demand for the city. He thanked the Centre, the Supreme Court and the Delhi high court for coming to the aid of the people of Delhi in times of distress.At its peak, Delhi recorded 28,395 cases on April 20, soon after chief minister Arvind Kejriwal expanded the night and weekend curfew protocols into a lockdown. That protocol has now been renewed several times, and will stay at least till May 17 in order to further flatten the curve.The reduction in the oxygen demand for Delhi comes days after the Supreme Court on May 8 ordered an audit of supply, distribution and utilisation of oxygen supply in the national Capital. The SC set up a panel comprising AIIMS director Rnadeep Guleria, Max hospital’s Sandeep Budhiraja and an IAS officer each from the Central and Delhi governments to conduct the audit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covid-cases-dip-delhi-s-daily-oxygen-demand-down-to-582mt-says-sisodia-101620894770064.html
13-05-2021||Chandigarh||Sidhu takes aim at Capt again, asks who will protect you in Guru’s court||A day after four Punjab ministers sought action against their former colleague Navjot Singh Sidhu for anti-party activities, the cricketer-turned politician hit out at chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on social media, asking him to stop firing from the shoulders of other state Congress leaders. The four ministers, Balbir Singh Sidhu, Vijay Inder Singla, Bharat Bhushan Ashu and Gurpreet Singh Kangar, on Wednesday demanded the suspension of the Amritsar East MLA for his unwarranted belligerence against the chief minister. “Sidhu’s provocative and targeted attacks on the chief minister over the past several days are an invitation for disaster for the Congress,” they said in a hard-hitting statement, suggesting collusion between Sidhu and opposition parties in the state, such as the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). Also read: Govt says reports of faulty ventilators in Punjab’s Faridkot hospital unfounded, issue with hospital infrastructureOn Monday, ministers Brahm Mohindra, Sunder Sham Arora and Sadhu Singh Dharamsot had made a similar demand from the party high command “Yesterday and today, my soul’s demand is justice for Guru Sahib, will reiterate it tomorrow as well! Punjab’s conscience is above party lines, stop firing from party colleagues’ shoulders. You are directly responsible & answerable. Who will protect you in court of the Great Guru?” Sidhu tweeted on Thursday, without naming the chief minister. Sidhu, whose relations with Amarinder have been strained for more than two-and-a-half years, has been taking swipes at the chief minister almost daily ever since the Punjab and Haryana high court on April 9 quashed the chargesheets filed by the special investigation team (SIT) in the Kotkapura police firing case of 2015 that left two villagers dead. Reacting to the criticism, the chief minister has termed Sidhu’s outbursts “total indiscipline” and said that he may be leaving for the AAP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sidhu-takes-aim-at-capt-again-asks-who-will-protect-you-in-guru-s-court-101620893989998.html
13-05-2021||Jaipur||BSF jawan shoots self with service rifle near Pakistan border in Jaisalmer||A Border Security Force (BSF) jawan allegedly shot himself with his service rifle while on duty along the Pakistan border in Rajasthan’s Jaisalmer district, late on Wednesday night, according to a senior police officer.The jawan was identified as 51-years old Prem Singh Yadav, a resident of Bhind in Madhya Pradesh. Police are yet to find out the exact reason behind the incident but said initial investigations suggested Kumar was depressed due to family-related issues.According to Vipin Sharma, additional superintendent of police in Jaisalmer, Yadav shot himself at around 1:30 am in his barrack near Shahganj Bulge border area in the district. Hearing the sound of the fire, soldiers rushed in to find Kumar lying in a pool of blood. He was taken to the district hospital where doctors declared him dead. Yadav had recently rejoined duty on April 30 after completing a one month leave.After the post-mortem, police handed over his body to a BSF official, who later informed his family members. Meanwhile, the BSF has launched a probe into the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/bsf-jawan-shoots-self-with-service-rifle-near-pakistan-border-in-jaisalmer-101620892490308.html
13-05-2021||Chandigarh||Covid positivity rate higher in HP’s districts bordering Punjab, Haryana||Four of the 12 districts in Himachal Pradesh have a Covid-19 positivity rate of more than 30% with Sirmaur, bordering Haryana and Punjab accounting for the highest rate of 38.4%. The state recorded an overall positivity rate of 26.3% during the week from May 3 to 9. According to the state health department, of the 5,861 samples tested in Sirmaur in the week, 2,252 turned out positive. Shimla was second with a positivity rate of 34.1%. As many as 8,441 tests were conducted in Shimla of which 2,879 were positive. The industrial district of Solan was third with 2,772 positive cases of the 8,918 samples tested, recording a positivity rate of 31.1%. Also read: Defer vaccination for 6 months after recovery from Covid-19, says govt panelMandi recorded a positivity rate of 30.6% with 3,360 of the 10,964 samples testing positive. The worst-hit district Kangra had a positivity rate of 28.2% with 26,257 samples being tested and 7,410 reported positive. Kangra deputy commissioner Rakesh Kumar Prajapati said the high positivity rate indicates the high testing and absolute number of cases reported every day. “This is because Kangra is the largest district in terms of population. We account for one fourth of population and thus the number of cases reported will be in relative ratio,” he said. Tribal districts report lower positivity rate In Hamirpur, 8,405 samples were tested of which 2,134 were positive. The positivity rate of the district was 25.4%. Bilaspur recorded a positivity rate 23%. A total of 2,123 people were found positive of the 9,268 who underwent the Covid-19 test. Kinnaur, Una, Kullu and Chamba recorded a positivity rate of 19%, 18.1%, 16.7% and 15.7%, respectively. The tribal Lahaul and Spiti district had the lowest positivity rate of 10.5%. Kangra records most fatalities Kangra district recorded the highest number of fatalities in the state during the week. A total of 110 people succumbed to the contagion in the district with a case fatality ratio of 1.48%. Forty-five deaths were reported in Shimla and the CFR was 1.56% followed by Solan with 43 deaths and the CFR 1.55%. Sirmaur and Una recorded CFR of 1.03% and 1.15%, respectively. In rest of the districts, the CFR was below 1%. No fatality was reported in Lahaul-Spiti district. The state recorded 145% of the target testing during the given week. A total of 1,02,455 tests were conducted against a target of 70,622.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-positivity-rate-higher-in-hp-s-districts-bordering-punjab-haryana-101620891769883.html
13-05-2021||Bangalore||Bengaluru rides high: Cyclists provide relief to residents amid the lockdown||As Karnataka tackles the second wave of coronavirus, many are finding it difficult to get access to medicines and other essentials. That has inspired a group of cyclists in the city, Relief Riders to come to the rescue of many, especially the senior citizens. And in return, the citizens have been sending out messages of gratitude such as: ‘I have received my medicines, thank you very much. I am extremely grateful to you for your help, you’ve saved my life.’ Bengaluru resident Sathya Sankaran is one who receives many messages on similar lines everyday, for himself and his team for helping out those in need. “We had started delivery of essentials on cycles during the first lockdown in 2020. Our group stayed active, and when this new lockdown was announced, we knew what we would be needed,” says Sankaran, who is currently overseeing the work of 200 volunteers.“The lockdown has been particularly hard on the elderly, and many others who have Covid or non-Covid medical conditions, and have no one to take care of them... Our cyclists ferry the essentials to them between 6am and 10am,” adds Sankaran informing how their young volunteers are being given training to stay safe while undertaking the deliveries. “As part of Relief Riders, we are being asked to deliver necessities in our local areas, so as to ensure safety of all volunteers,” says Arvind Bhateja, a volunteer with the group. Since cyclists don’t need passes to commute and adhere to norms listed by the local health department for the lockdown, many are coming forward to volunteer with the group. “I started cycling during the lockdown last year, and originally did it for health benefits. But, after a chance meeting with the Relief Riders, I realised it was time to give back to society. It has been a rewarding experience so far,” says Asha Rajdev, a pilot who volunteers with the group, and Dr Arvind Bhateja, a Bengaluru-based neurosurgeon, who along with his wife are active members of Relief Riders. “My wife and I commute to work on cycles, and on our way we take a little detour and try to help as many people as we can with essentials. At Relief Riders, we are being asked to deliver in our local areas so as to ensure safety of all volunteers,” says Bhateja, who had started #ResetWithCycling initiative last year to promote cycling.And for residents, these bikers are God sent! “Relief riders had been my life saviors during the time when my husband was down with 104 degree fever. They searched multiple medical shops to bring my medicines and necessary equipment to me. I can’t ever forget the help I’ve received from them,” says Manisha Mishra, one of the beneficiaries of the initiative.The initiative has now been extended to cycling communities in seven other cities across India including Chennai, Gurugram, Mumbai, and Hubballi. “In one of the households that we cater to, there are two bedridden senior citizens with a nurse. They wanted home deliveries so that they don’t expose themselves to the virus. We helped them out with groceries and it’s heartwarming to be of assistance to people,” adds Bhateja. Author tweets @bhagat_mallikaFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/bengaluru-rides-high-cyclists-provide-relief-to-residents-amid-the-lockdown-101620890812884.html
13-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi's oxygen requirement down, told Centre to redirect surplus quota to other states: Manish Sisodia||Delhi's deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Thursday said the city's requirement of oxygen has gone down from 700 metric tonnes to 582 metric tonnes per day and the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government has written to the Centre asking it to give the surplus quota to other states. "Delhi needs an average of 582 metric tonnes of oxygen now, as against the 700 MT it needed when the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases had peaked. We have told Centre to give the extra oxygen from Delhi's quota to other states," he said, according to news agency PTI.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageExpressing gratitude to the Centre and the Delhi High Court for coming to the aid of the people of Delhi when they struggled to meet their oxygen demand, the minister said that the city was now reporting a lower positivity rate."There has been a sharp reduction in the number of Covid-19 cases in city. On Thursday, the city recorded 10,400 fresh infections and the positivity rate went down to 14 per cent. More beds are now available in hospitals and the oxygen situation has improved," Sisodia said, according to news agency PTI.According to a release issued by the Centre on Monday, oxygen supply to all over the country was enhanced by setting up thousands of pressure swing adsorption (PSA) plants, importing liquid medical oxygen (LMO) from overseas, and procurement of oxygen concentrators. Also Read: Delhi HC seeks info of patients admitted, discharged at hospitals since April 1 to review 'malpractice' allegationsOxygen production increased from 5700 MT per day in August last year to 9,446 MT per day in May this year, the government said.Meanwhile, the Delhi high court, in an attempt to restrict hoarding and black marketing of equipment used for the treatment of Covid-19, told the Centre on Wednesday that it was “high time” to fix the maximum retail prices (MRP) of oxygen concentrators.In a session earlier this month, the court looked into allegations of hospital beds not being vacated in Delhi and directed the government to update its portal with the numbers of patients discharged and admitted on a daily basis. During its judgement, the court also directed the Centre to ensure that Delhi gets its allocated 490 MT oxygen supply and said 'contempt action' will be initiated in case the Centre fails to comply with the order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-oxygen-requirement-down-told-centre-to-redirect-surplus-quota-sisodia-101620889717030.html
13-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra extends Covid-19 lockdown till June 1, mandates negative RT-PCR report for those entering the state||The Maharashtra government on Thursday extended the ongoing restrictions to contain the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the state till June 1, 7am. The lockdown imposed by the state government under the 'break the chain' initiative was supposed to end on May 15.The state government also imposed stringent restrictions on Thursday as it made carrying a negative RT-PCR report to enter the state through any mode of transportation mandatory.Maharashtra, which is the top contributor to the daily new Covid-19 infections in the country reported a decline of more than than 30,000 active cases on Wednesday, as per the Union health ministry data. The per-day growth rate average of the state is also half the national average as it stands at 0.8 per cent, state health minister Tope said on Wednesday.Also read: Kejriwal asks 'where is India' as states float global tenders for Covid vaccines"Maharashtra's Covid-19 growth rate is merely half of the country's daily growth rate. The state's per day growth rate is 0.8 per cent as against the country's rate of 1.4 per cent. The state is carrying out around two lakh tests on a daily basis while per million testings is around 2.50 lakh. It is a very good sign for us," PTI quoted Tope as saying.Speaking of the success of the 'break the chain' initiative to drive down the Covid-19 infection rate in the state, Tope said that the strict measures under the initiative have definitely reduced the number of Covid-19 cases but the curve is not stable yet, as per the PTI report. There are some 12-45 districts in the state that have shown a declining trend in the number of viral infections, he added.However, there are still some districts where the number of cases is a cause of concern, Tope said. The positivity rate in these parts of the state has not plummeted and is still hovering over 10 per cent, he added, as per the report.Also read: India records 3.62 lakh fresh Covid-19 infections, 4,120 deaths in 24 hoursMaharashtra on Wednesday found 46,781 people infected with the disease in the last 24 hours, while 816 lost their lives to the infection, according to the state health bulletin.The Covid-19 case tally of the state has reached 5,226,710 and the active caseload stands at over 546,000 after the addition of new cases on Wednesday. The death toll in the state has reached 78,007, the bulletin showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-extends-covid-19-lockdown-till-june-1-101620886661867.html
13-05-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana to float global tender for vaccine to cover 18-44 category||Haryana health minister Anil Vij on Thursday said that the state government will float a global tender for the Covid-19 vaccine to ensure free vaccination for those aged between 18 and 44 years. Vij, who also holds the home portfolio, tweeted that the tenders to buy the vaccine will be floated at the earliest. Also read: Bharat Biotech to conduct Covaxin trial on age group between 2 and 18He had recently said that about 1.1 crore people in the state are in the 18-44 age bracket. During a Covid review meeting with Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan on Wednesday, Vij said Haryana needed more vaccine so that the second dose could be administered in time. He said the first dose has been given to about 37 lakh people in the state, while over 8 lakh have got taken their second dose, too. Till Wednesday evening, the cumulative vaccination coverage of Haryana was 46.58 lakh. According to the state health bulletin, Gurugram district is leading the vaccination drive with a total of 5,68,940 cumulative coverage (both doses) of the vaccination, while Nuh district is at the bottom with only 57,799 people having got both doses so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-to-float-global-tender-for-vaccine-to-cover-18-44-category-101620885649383.html
13-05-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana to float global tenders to ensure free Covid-19 vaccination||Global tenders would be floated by the Haryana government for procurement of Covid-19 vaccines to ensure that all those above 18 in the state are inoculated, health minister Anil Vij said on Thursday.During the past few weeks, Covid-19 cases in Haryana have witnessed a surge. The number of total active cases in the state, as of May 12, was 1,07,058.In a tweet, Vij said, “Haryana will float Global tenders to purchase Corona Vaccine for people of Haryana so that free vaccination could be provided to every 18 citizens of the State at the earliest". States like Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Tamil Nadu, and Delhi have already opted for global tenders to meet their needs.The Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech's indigenously developed Covaxin and Oxford-AstraZeneca's Covishield, being manufactured by the Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII), are currently being used in India's inoculation drive against coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-to-float-global-tenders-to-ensure-free-covid-19-vaccination-101620883388464.html
13-05-2021||Delhi||No Covaxin for 18-44 age group in Delhi from today, limited stock for 45+||No centre in the national capital will be able to administer Covid-19 vaccine 'Covaxin' to the age group of 18-44 years due to unavailability of its stock, said Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MLA Atishi Marlena on Wednesday."Despite the number of vaccination centres being increased extensively, the stock for Covaxin is absolutely finished, and due to this, nearly 100 centres administering Covaxin have been forced to temporarily shut down. So, from Thursday, Delhi will not be able to administer Covaxin to the 18-44 age group, due to the shortage of vaccines. Bharat Biotech has refused to deliver any additional doses of Covaxin to Delhi," Atishi said.Also Read | Bharat Biotech refused to send Covaxin for Delhi, cited govt directive: AAP"We are hoping that the Central government intervenes in the matter and supplies sufficient Covaxin vials to Delhi. In the next few days, those who have got their first doses will be ready for the second dose," she added.The AAP MLA informed that for those above 45 years and healthcare/frontline workers, Covaxin's stock is left only for four days and Covishield's stock for three days. Meanwhile, for Covishield, nine days' stock left for those between the 18-44 age group.Atishi said Delhi received a total of 43,20,490 doses of Covidvaccines for those above 45 years and healthcare/frontline workers till date. Out of these, 40,00,970 doses have already been used and 3,19,520 doses are left for this category.The AAP MLA further explained that Delhi received only 1.5 lakh doses for Covaxin and 6,67,690 doses of Covishield for the age group of 18-44 years. For this, a fresh consignment arrived on Tuesday evening, which had 2,67,690 doses of Covishield for those between 18-44 years of age. With this, the total number of vaccines received for the 18-44 age group now has increased to 8,17,000. Out of these, 3,82,000 vaccine doses have been utilised and 4,35,000 vials are left for the vaccination drive of next few days."We are sincerely hoping that the Centre will make sufficient doses available both for Covaxin and Covishield in the next few days. Delhi has probably faced the most Covid induced hardships ever since the start of the pandemic. Hence, I reiterate that we are hoping that the Central government supplies enough vaccines for the people of Delhi at the earliest," stated Atishi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/no-covaxin-for-18-44-age-group-in-delhi-from-today-limited-stock-for-45-101620880677647.html
13-05-2021||Patna||Bihar meets Covid-19 challenge with ‘e-LOTS’ web portal for virtual learning||In a bid to strengthen the online learning system for government school students amid Covid-19 pandemic, Bihar state education department launched a web portal named e-LOTS on Wednesday to converge e-books and audio-visual learning materials on a single digital platform.The web portal has been jointly developed by the Bihar Education Project Council (BEPC) and Unicef and has created a digital library for students and teachers as well, education department officials say.“As schools are facing closure due to the pandemic, the web portal has been designed to continue the teaching and learning process. Subject-wise and chapter-wise e-books have been uploaded in English and Hindi. Those who wish to access audio-visual learning materials can switch to linked gateways with a single click,” said BEPC director Sanjay Singh.Conventional mode of classroom learning has been disrupted since last year in March, when the Covid pandemic outbreak forced closure of education institutions forcing teaching to move online. Bihar is currently under a fresh spell of lockdown during the second wave of Covid-19.The e-LOTS portal has been linked with various digital educational platforms like DIKSHA portal, Swayamprabha channel and National Repository of Open Educational Resources to provide adequate study material for comprehensive learning of students and training of teachers, they added.Singh said the portal will also help teachers with information on curriculum, learning outcomes and teaching-aids.“Besides, teaching materials created for running catch-up courses have also been uploaded for reference of teachers,” he added.The e-LOTS web portal can be accessed through http://bepclots.bihar.gov.in/ or a mobile application available in Google Play store.The portal also offers career advice and guidance to class 10 and 12 pass outs with options to explore various traditional and vocational courses, entrance exams and scholarship.As per the education department, more than 41,000 people visited the web portal on Wednesday. A govt school teacher, who preferred anonymity, said, “Majority of students enrolled in govt schools belong to economically backward class. Internet access for study is a distant dream for them. The government should come up with a cheaper medium for imparting digital education.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-meets-covid-19-challenge-with-e-lots-web-portal-for-virtual-learning-101620878929052.html
13-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra to compile database of mucormycosis to assess its spread||The Maharashtra health department has decided to create a separate database of cases of mucormycosis, primarily being found in Covid-19 patients, to assess its actual spread and how to tackle it, officials said.Two Covid-19 patients recently died of this rare but serious fungal infection in neighbouring Thane, while there has been a surge in such cases in Mumbai and Pune, they said.As per doctors, mucormycosis, also known as the black fungus, is mostly found among Covid-19 patients who have diabetes. Its symptoms include headache, fever, pain under the eyes, nasal or sinus congestion and partial loss of vision.Maharashtra Health Minister Rajesh Tope on Tuesday said there could be over 2,000 mucormycosis patients in the state as of now and with more and more Covid-19 cases coming up, "their number would increase for sure".On Wednesday, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said as many as 111 patients, all Covid-19 survivors, were undergoing treatment for mucormycosis in hospitals here.According to state health services director Dr Archana Patil, earlier there was no regular health management of mucormycosis, though it was detected in a few pockets.However, the Maharashtra health authorities have now decided make a detailed report of such cases in the state, and guidelines regarding it will soon be issued to all the districts, Patil said on Wednesday."Once such data is compiled on a real-time basis, we will have some idea about the actual spread of the fungal infection and how to respond to it. We can also allocate medicines and provide necessary guidance as per its prevalence," the official said.According to health experts, cases of mucormycosis are rising in the state mainly among Covid-19 patients.The immune system of such patients is weak which makes them more susceptible to this fungal infection, they said."There were some cases of this fungal infection in private hospitals last year during the first wave of Covid-19. But, some of those hospitals did not inform the state government or the ICMR about it," a state health official said on condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-to-compile-database-of-mucormycosis-to-assess-its-spread-101620877579460.html
13-05-2021||Patna||Bihar to subsidise purchase of ambulances in rural areas under MMGPY scheme||Bihar state transport department has announced subsidy on purchase of ambulances under Mukhya Mantri Gram Parivahan Yojana (MMGPY) by amending the existing vehicle options listed under the scheme. Officials said this was done to meet the increasing demand for ambulance services in rural areas.Transport minister Sheela Kumari said the proposal to include ambulance purchase under the scheme was approved on Tuesday.“Earlier, subsidy was offered only on purchase of three or four-wheeler passenger vehicles. Now, subsidy will be provided on purchase of 1068 ambulances under the scheme, which will incur an expenditure of ₹21 crore,” she said. According to transport department officials, interested candidates can apply online to avail the benefit till May 16.The decision comes at a time when the state’s health infrastructure has come under massive strain due to the outbreak of the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic, resulting in a flood of infected patients seeking healthcare facilities such as ambulance services, oxygenated hospital beds, life saving medicines etc. The state has seen loss of several lives due to the shortage of resources.Sanjay Kumar Agarwal, transport secretary, said, “All ambulances will be equipped with oxygen and basic medical facilities. Under the scheme, two people from backward classes from each block will be given a subsidy, which amounts to 50% of the cost of vehicles not exceeding ₹2 lakh, on purchase of an ambulance.”Launched in 2018, MMGPY aims to ease transportation facilities in rural areas and generate employment. According to a senior transport official, more than 13,000 applications have been received in the phase-8 of MMGPY, while altogether 36,000 beneficiaries have availed the incentive offer so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-govt-to-subsidise-purchase-of-ambulances-in-rural-areas-under-mmgpy-101620875449235.html
13-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi wakes up to light rain; thunderstorm likely today: IMD||Delhi woke up to light rain on Thursday. As per the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast, thunderstorm with light to moderate intensity rain and wind speed would occur over isolated places of Delhi and adjoining areas including Noida, Meerut Rohtak, Panipat and few other places.“Thunderstorms with light to moderate intensity rain with a wind speed of 30-50 kmph would occur over isolated places of Entire Delhi, Rohtak, Panipat, Kaithal, Jhajjar, Bhadra, Adampur, Hissar, Gurugram, Sohana, Nuh, Hansi, Manesar, Kharkhoda, Gulothi, Siyana, Ghaziabad, Noida, Greater Noida, Sikandrabad, Bulandshahar, Khurja, Jhangirabad, Garhmukteswar, Bijnor, Chapaurala, Hastinapur, Chandpur, Amroha and adjoining areas during the next 2 hours,” the IMD said in a tweet.Also Read | Delhi DMs told to set up 186 more jab centresThe minimum temperature on Thursday is likely to be at 24 degrees Celsius (°C) while maximum temperature is predicted to reach 36°C.The minimum temperature on Wednesday was 23°C, and the maximum temperature was 37°C -- two degrees above normal.Delhi’s air quality was in the moderate category on Thursday morning. Data from Central Pollution Control Board showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 7am stood at 129. On Wednesday, the average 24-hour AQI had been 115.An AQI between zero and 50 is considered good, 51 and 100 satisfactory, 101 and 200 moderate, 201 and 300 poor, 301 and 400 very poor, and 401 and 500 severe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/rain-thunderstorm-likely-in-delhi-todayimd-101620874968745.html
13-05-2021||Mumbai||SII CEO Adar Poonawalla promised to send 1.5 crore Covishield doses to Maharashtra after May 20: Rajesh Tope||Serum Institute of India (SII) CEO Adar Poonawalla has promised to send 1.5 crore doses of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccine it manufactures, Covishield, to Maharashtra after May 20, according to the state health minister Rajesh Tope. The SII CEO made the promise to Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, the minister told news agency ANI.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage"Serum Institute of India CEO Adar Poonawalla has promised the chief minister to deliver 1.5 crore doses of Covishield to Maharashtra after May 20. We will start the vaccination for the 18-44 years age group after we receive the vaccine," he said.The state halted vaccination of those in the age group of 18-44 on Wednesday due to the unavailability of vaccines. "Vaccination for 18-44 age group has been suspended for the time being due to shortage of vaccines. All the doses purchased by the state government for the age group will now be diverted for the 45 category," Tope said after attending a cabinet meeting over the Covid-19 situation in state on Wednesday.Also Read: Maharashtra halts vaccination for 18-44 age group, cites ‘shortage of doses’On whether the government will impose stricter restrictions or a complete lockdown in Maharashtra to curb the spread of the virus, Tope said the health department and other ministers proposed to extend the lockdown in state for 15 days. "The chief minister will take the final decision on this matter," he said. Maharashtra has the highest Covid-19 caseload in the country and it reported 46,781 fresh infections and 816 new deaths in the last 24 hours, according to the state health department on Wednesday. The new cases pushed the case tally in the state to 52,26,710 and the death toll to 78,007. The active number of Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra stands at 5,46,129.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/sii-ceo-adar-poonawalla-promised-to-send-1-5-crore-covishield-doses-to-maharashtra-after-may-20-rajesh-tope-101620868131979.html
13-05-2021||Noida||Noida hospitals asked to inform Covid patients' kin daily about health condition||The Gautam Buddh Nagar administration on Wednesday directed all hospitals, including private facilities, to set up helpdesks that will update families of Covid-19 patients about their health condition daily and in "simple" language, according to an official order.Every hospital has to set up a helpdesk with adequate staff that has to be provided two phones -- one only for incoming calls and the other only for outgoing calls -- which will be used to communicate with families or attendants of coronavirus patients, the order stated.Failure to comply with the order will result in action under the National Disaster Management Act (NDMA) against the hospital concerned, District Magistrate Suhas L Y warned, as he directed his administration to form a special team which will conduct random checks of these helpdesks."Every hospital has to set up a help desk with an adequate number of staff and will have to arrange two telephones – one for outgoing calls only and the other for incoming calls only. Families or attendants of COVID patients may call or message on one number to enquire about the health condition of their patients and they should be informed about it in simple language," Suhas stated in the order, effective immediately."The helpdesk will also provide a daily update to the additional district magistrate (Finance and Revenue) about the number of outgoing calls made during a day to patients' families or attendants. They will also provide details like name of patient, attendant or family persons' name and contact number, etc," he said.These details will be used by the ADM (F&R) to carry out random verification of these helpdesks. The ADM will form a special team for this work, the DM added.He said the special team will randomly call up the family or attendants of the patient to confirm if they got health updates from the hospital concerned or not."If it is found during checking that any data given to the ADM is incorrect or that any family or attendant is not informed about the health update of their patient, then action will be taken against such hospital under the NDMA," he warned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-hospitals-asked-to-inform-covid-patients-kin-daily-about-health-condition-101620867031705.html
13-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi wakes up to light drizzle, cloudy sky; mercury touches 26 degree Celsius||The national capital on Thursday experienced light drizzle and cloudy sky as the mercury touched 26 degree Celsius. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) had said that several parts of India is likely to face heavy to extreme-heavy rainfall, thunderstorm and hailstorm in the next couple of days.In a tweet, the IMD said, "A low pressure area is very likely to form over Southeast Arabian Sea around 14th May morning. It is very likely to concentrate into a Depression over Lakshadweep area and adjoining Southeast and East central Arabian Sea by 15th May. Those, who are in Sea are advised to return to the coast by the night of 12th May, 2021."It further said that a cyclonic circulation lies over Punjab and neighbourhood and an east-west trough runs from this cyclonic circulation to Sub Himalayan West Bengal and Sikkim at lower levels."There is likely confluence of winds from Arabian Sea and easterly winds at lower levels over northwest India during next 2-3 days. In addition, there is likely confluence of winds from Arabian Sea and easterly winds at lower levels over northwest India during next 2-3 days," the IMD said in another tweet.Earlier on Wednesday, Delhi’s air quality improved to satisfactory category. Data from the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 7am stood at 96.An AQI between zero and 50 is considered good, 51 and 100 satisfactory, 101 and 200 moderate, 201 and 300 poor, 301 and 400 very poor, and 401 and 500 severe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-wakes-up-to-light-drizzle-cloudy-sky-mercury-touches-26-degree-celsius-101620865076503.html
13-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi DMs told to set up 186 more jab centres||Even as Delhi shut over 100 vaccination centres, meant for people in 18-44 age group for want of Covaxin doses, the government on Wednesday ordered the scaling up of immunisation centres in schools for all categories of beneficiaries. District magistrates have been directed to create an additional 186 vaccination centres, with about 10 vaccination sites at each, officials in the know of the matter said.The government has also increased the number of shots administered per site per day from 150 to 200, according to a latest order.“Opening up of 186 more vaccination centres with approx 10 vaccination centres (sites) in addition to existing centres…” read the order by special secretary (health) SM Ali.Not all the additional sites will be used for immunising those between the ages of 18 to 44 years; the vaccination drive for others (45+ age group, frontline workers, health workers etc) will also be moved to schools as per the order.“A majority of the existing government centres for the 45+ age group are in Delhi government hospitals and Delhi government dispensaries, and these may be considered for shifting to centres in schools,” the order said.The immunisation drive for the 18 to 44 age group had started in schools on May 3, instead of hospitals and dispensaries, with a view to avoid beneficiaries coming in contact with those who might have Covid-19.Currently, there are 374 centres -- with 470 vaccination sites -- for those above the age of 45 in Delhi. There are 101 centres, totalling 354 vaccination sites, for those between the ages of 18 and 44 years. There were only 16,900 doses of Covaxin left in Delhi as on Wednesday morning, which were administered to beneficiaries across 44 centres and will be exhausted by the end of the day, health officials said.“Thursday onwards, there will be no centre administering Covaxin -- the government has had to shut 100 centres for want of Covaxin. Bharat Biotech has refused to provide any more doses to Delhi. In a few days, those who have received the first dose of the vaccine will be ready for their second dose. We hope that the Centre will intervene and get us more (Covaxin) doses from Bharat Biotech,” said AAP MLA Atishi while releasing the daily vaccination bulletin on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-dms-told-to-set-up-186-more-jab-centres-101620865117443.html
13-05-2021||Delhi||Forest dept ups vigil as demand for wood spikes in crematoriums||As the city grapples with a rising demand of wood for cremations of Covid-19 victims, the Delhi forest department is now on its guard to control cases of illegal cutting of trees in the capital.Senior forest department officials said that instances of illegal felling of trees have started coming to their notice and said it could have been prompted by the sudden surge in demand for wood for cremations. The forest officials, along with Delhi Police, are keeping a close watch on the black-marketing and sale of wood for funeral pyres, officials said.For instance, on May 2, a case of the illegal cutting of four fully grown trees was reported from south Delhi’s Dera Mandi. While the south division of the forest department sealed the area and is conducting an inquiry into the felling, officials have not been able to retrieve the timber.A similar instance of trees being felled was also reported by environment activists on April 9 from Sundar Nagar, where forest department confirmed that no permissions to cut trees were given to any construction agency or individual.Forest officials suspect that limited availability has fuelled instances of illegal wood trade in different parts of Delhi and NCR, which needs to be checked to control long-term damage.“While we are providing permissions to the municipalities for the cutting of dead and dried trees, we are keeping a close watch to ensure only the municipal agencies are cutting the trees and that too in the required number. But we are also stressing that civic agencies should come up with a long term solution for this high number of cremations because this pandemic is not going to get over in a day or in a week. We need to come up with more sustainable solutions such as electric and CNG-fuelled cremation facilities so that damage to trees can be minimised,” said a senior forest official.Forest department records show that the south division has granted permissions for the felling of 400 dead and dried trees to the municipality, while the north division has granted early cutting permissions to the National Capital Region Transport Corporation (NCRTC) for the construction of the Regional Rapid Transit System (RRTS) at Ashok Nagar, so that the wood can be sent to the local crematoriums. The north division is also in the process of identifying fallen trees in the Bonta Park, Kamla Nehru Ridge, so that these can be used for funeral pyres if required.“We are only giving permissions to government agencies and not entertaining any private requests now,” said Navneet Srivastava, deputy conservator forests (west division).When the death toll in the national capital started rising exponentially under the second wave of coronavirus, the three municipalities (east, north and south Delhi municipal corporations) had written separate letters to the forest department to make arrangements of wood, as the municipal-run funeral homes were running out of wood for pyres.Residents living in the Capital’s outskirts said that while the focus of the government and the municipal agencies are on the big crematoriums, there are smaller facilities which have become massively starved of resources, which is also leading to instances of families having to buy wood at high rates.“Every village here has a crematorium but because of the pandemic, these facilities claim to have run out of supplies. Grieving families are often asked to get wood. Each pile of wood, which is some 200-300 kg, is sold at ₹20,000 or so. Not just Covid deaths, families of people who are dying of other causes also have to arrange resources,” said Karamveer Singh, a resident of Najafgarh’s Ghummenhera Village.While the forest rules stress that only government-approved suppliers can arrange wood to crematoriums -- to ensure the prevention of illegal cutting and trade of wood -- another resident of Tikri Kalan, bordering Haryana, said that wood dealers ensure that the piles are supplied to cremation facilities after the payment is received.“We bought wood for my cousin’s cremation. He died of cardiac arrest and we could not get him tested for Covid. The city is facing a crisis; we had no other option but to arrange for resources ourselves. What should we have done? We could not have waited endlessly for the crematorium to get wood,” said Rahul Chaudhury, from Tikri Kalan, who paid ₹9,500 for the wood.A caretaker of the Nigambodh Ghat crematorium, which is among the largest cremation facilities in the city, explained that since the municipal facilities are managed by NGOs, the wood here is supplied by government suppliers.“By April-end and beginning of May, the death count was so high that we were facing a severe shortage of wood. Even though this is a big facility, we had to cut the wood for funeral pyres from the usual 500-600 kg per body, to around 450 kg, to save wood. The situation of smaller cremation facilities is worse,” the caretaker said, requesting anonymity.The municipalities said that they were experimenting with alternative and sustainable technologies to meet the Covid crisis.“We (north corporation) have very recently started making logs of dried cow dung, and shredded crop stubble, which is a farm waste. The east corporation has also issued directions to use cow dung so that the consumption of wood is less,” said north Delhi mayor Jai Prakash.Meanwhile, BK Singh, former principal chief conservator forests in Karnataka, said that the temporary shortage of wood may not result in any long-term damage, but added that it is important that the forest department keep a close watch on illegal traders. “The shortage might be solved in a few days but it is imperative that this market for illegal wood is not encouraged because demand is often man-made. In these circumstances, the forest department should in fact press agencies to plant more trees in lieu of what is being cut,” Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/forest-dept-ups-vigil-as-demand-for-wood-spikes-in-crematoriums-101620864317986.html
13-05-2021||Delhi||‘What’s the offence?’: 4 get bail in O2 device case; order on Kalra’s bail today||A Delhi court on Wednesday granted bail to four people, including the CEO and vice-president of Matrix Cellular, for their alleged role in hoarding and selling oxygen concentrators, saying it was unable to understand the offence they had committed. Meanwhile, another city court reserved its order on the anticipatory bail plea by co-accused Navneet Kalra till Thursday.While Kalra has allegedly been on the run since the recovery of 524 oxygen concentrators from three of his restaurants – Khan Chacha, Town Hall and Nege & Ju – and from the office of Matrix Cellular last week, the police arrested five people, including the manager of Nege & Ju restaurant, Hitesh, and four senior officials of Matrix Cellular – Gourav Khanna, the chief executive officer (CEO), Gaurav, who is the business head, Sathish Sethi, the manager, and Vikrant, a sales executive. Khanna was the last person to be arrested from Gurugram on Friday.The court granted bail to Khanna, Gaurav, Vikrant and Sethi on Wednesday.According to Delhi Police, Matrix Cellular received a consignment of 650 oxygen concentrators from China, of which 524 have been recovered. The concentrators were being sold for ₹70,000 each. The court, however, wanted to know if there was any illegality in this.“It may be noted that the gravamen of the case of prosecution is the alleged black marketing and hoarding of concentrators by the accused, however, the aforesaid terms are not defined in any of the Acts under consideration before this court,” chief metropolitan magistrate (CMM) Arun Kumar Garg said, while granting bail to the four accused.He said “no prima facie case under section 420 IPC is made out against the accused, at least from the contents of the FIR”.“The court is unable to comprehend as to why the provisions of Prevention of Black Marketing and Maintenance of Supplies of the Essential Commodities Act, 1980 are not being invoked by the state, if the state wants to stop black marketing,” the magistrate added.Kalra plea order reservedMeanwhile, additional sessions judge Sandeep Garg reserved the order on the pre-arrest bail plea by Kalra for Thursday at 10am, after hearing the arguments of the prosecution and defence.Public prosecutor Atul Shrivastava told the court that Kalra’s custodial interrogation was required and that bail should not be granted as he was an influential person.“His intention was to cheat the public at large and wrongfully gain. Had Delhi Police not busted the racket, many people would have been cheated,” he alleged.Senior advocate Vikas Pahwa, representing Kalra, asked the court how can his client be accused of selling the oxygen concentrators at exorbitant prices, if there is no ceiling price fixed by the government.“There is no MRP fixed by the government till date. How will you decide if the prices are exorbitant?” he asked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/whats-the-offence-4-get-bail-in-o2-device-case-order-on-kalra-s-bail-today-101620864058156.html
13-05-2021||Delhi||HC asks govt to cap cost of Covid treatment at pvt facilities in Delhi||The Delhi high court on Wednesday directed the Delhi government to cap prices for treatment of Covid-19 patients at private hospitals and nursing homes in the city, saying the administration cannot turn a blind eye to overcharging by hospitals merely because there were no complaints.“We want this taken up on top priority,” a bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli said, and directed the health secretary, Delhi government, to convene a meeting with the administration of several hospitals and decide on the rationalisation of the charges. The bench asked the Delhi government to issue appropriate orders after the meeting.“Merely because there were no complaints, the situation on the ground cannot be ignored. We agree [with the petitioner] that you cannot turn a blind eye to it. We had asked you to again speak to all stakeholders. That exercise should have been done. You could have seen the condition on the ground, spoken to all the stakeholders and then arrived at a reasonable figure so that people are not fleeced,” the bench said.The directions came after the lawyer, Abhay Gupta, representing one of the intervenors in the main petition by Rakesh Malhotra, raised the issue of alleged overcharging by private hospitals. Gupta placed on record a hospital bill in which the ICU package price was ₹30,000, but the charges for bilevel positive airway pressure (BiPAP) machine, oxygen, monitors, etc, were additional and to the tune of thousands of rupees per day.The court said that the government can have different slabs based on services offered so that there is transparency.“There should be some transparency. It shouldn’t be like someone is charging a lakh or someone’s charging ₹50,000,” the bench said.Senior advocate and amicus curiae Rajshekhar Rao told the court that, according to his research, several private hospitals were refusing to admit patients even if they had cashless insurance cover, unless they deposited ₹50,000.The court also questioned the state government for not making over 1,000-bed Indira Gandhi Hospital in Dwarka fully operational till date.Justices Sanghi and Palli said the Delhi government should learn from the “bitter experiences” it had during the current infection wave. “If a third wave comes, as many experts are warning it might, and your facility is not up and running (to full capacity), then again we would be back to this situation,” the bench said after senior advocate Rahul Mehra, for Delhi government, said completion of the hospital was not a pressing issue as around 4,500 beds were currently available in the national capital.“Though the situation may have somewhat improved with regard to availability of Covid beds, one cannot forget the situation that existed till just a couple of days ago when serious patients in need of hospitalisation with oxygen support, those requiring ICU with ventilators, were not able to get admission and many of them died without getting any chance to get treated appropriately,” the court noted in its oral order.Advocate YP Singh for the petitioner, Dwarka Bar Association, told the court that 80 beds were operational in the Indira Gandhi Hospital, and only eight were occupied.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/hc-asks-govt-to-cap-cost-of-covid-treatment-at-pvt-facilities-in-delhi-101620863163525.html
13-05-2021||Chandigarh||4,509 fresh infections push J&K’s May Covid tally past 50,000||May is turning out to be the worst month for Jammu and Kashmir in terms of Covid cases and deaths as the monthly infections passed the 50,000-mark and deaths crossed 600 on Wednesday.As many as 65 people lost their lives to coronavirus on Wednesday, highest daily spike for the second day in a row, taking the death toll for the first 12 days of this month to 630 and overall fatalities to 2,912.The UT also recorded 4,509 fresh infections, taking the number of infections this month to 53,324 so far and total case count to 2,29,407.The number of patients who have recovered from the disease this month so far is 29,500.The worst-month before this in terms of fatalities was last September when the first wave had peaked during which 478 persons had lost their lives besides recording 37,300 infections. In April this year, the monthly cases in the UT went beyond 45,000 along with 289 fatalities. February had the lowest 1,935 infections and 21 deaths.Of the 65 deaths in the UT on Wednesday, 46 were reported in Jammu division and 19 in Kashmir. Of the new cases, 2,750 were from Kashmir while 1,759 were from Jammu, besides 87 travellers. Dr Rakesh Bahl, senior consultant, department of community medicine, GMC Jammu, said the sudden surge in cases after a year was due to people letting their guard down.“We, as a society, let our guards down and stopped observing Covid preventive measures strictly. If your mask isn’t covering your nose, it is as good as wearing no mask at all,” he said.Officials said with 863 cases, Srinagar had the highest number of new infections, followed by 621 in Jammu district, 377 in Baramulla, 327 in Pulwama and 233 in Anantnag.The number of active cases has reached 51,542, officials said. Dr Bahl pitched for adopting Covid appropriate behaviour and getting vaccinated as the only foreseeable way out of the pandemic.“A combination of two properly fitted masks — one home-made fabric mask over one surgical mask — is needed for maximum protection. The N95 masks are primarily meant for people at much higher risk of infection like doctors and other healthcare workers,” he added. Nearly 3,603 patients have recovered from the disease, including 2,287 from Kashmir and 1,316 from Jammu. As many as 1,74,953 people have recovered so far, taking the recovery rate to 76.26% against around 98% in the first fortnight of February. The officials said that 43,916 tests were conducted in the past 24 hours, taking overall tests to 7.77 million.Srinagar and Jammu districts have together contributed for about 97,000 cases and 1,377 deaths in total. Kashmir divisional commissioner Pandurang K Pole during a visit to south Kashmir urged people, especially above 45 years of age, to strictly follow the guidelines of “no venturing out unnecessarily” for their safety. “People should maintain social distance, hand and face hygiene and above all ensure wearing masks. Keep in touch with radio and television as all the government information is easily accessed through this medium of communication,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/4509-fresh-infections-push-j-k-s-may-covid-tally-past-50000-101620852646987.html
13-05-2021||Chandigarh||Vaccination drive for 18+ from May 17 in Himachal: Jai Ram||HP chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Wednesday said the third phase of vaccination for the 18-44 age group will begin from May 17.“Vaccination would be done on first come first service basis as per the time of registration,” he said, adding that a dedicated control room would be established in every district to facilitate the patients in getting ambulances for hospitals, besides vehicles to drop them back. NHM director Dr Nipun Jindal said the state government would be receiving first supply of 1,07,620 doses for the third phase from SII on Thursday. Meanwhile, CM Thakur said the panchayati raj institutions’ (PRIs’) representatives must come forward to help in transportation of Covid patients under home isolation to hospital if their health condition deteriorates. He was interacting with the PRI representatives from various districts virtually from Shimla on Wednesday.He also urged them to keep a strict vigil on marriage functions and a check on people coming to the villages from outside the state.Grimmest day in HP as 66 more succumb to virusHimachal Pradesh on Tuesday witnessed another deadliest day since the outbreak of Covid-19 after 66 patients succumbed to the contagion, highest single-day fatalities. The death toll has shot up to 2,055. Sixty-four people had died in the state on Tuesday.Meanwhile, the state recorded 4,977 fresh infections taking the state’s tally to 1,45,736. Of the new cases, 1,419 were recorded in Kangra, 1,167 in Mandi, 408 in Solan, 377 in Hamirpur, 364 in Sirmaur, 352 in Bilaspur, 308 in Chamba, 229 in Una, 181 in Shimla, 105 in Kullu, 42 in Kinnaur and 25 in Lahaul and Spiti.Recoveries reached 1,04,686 after 2,187 people recuperated. Active cases have climbed to 38,954. Kangra has highest 11,893 active cases followed by 4,692 in Mandi, 3950 in Solan and 3,397 in Shimla. Kangra tally breaches 30K-mark Kangra remains the worst hit district with its total case count breached 30,000-mark. The district has recorded 30,729 positive cases to date.Mandi is on the second position with 20,557 positive cases followed by Shimla with 19,147 cases.Solan’s case tally has reached 17,466, Sirmaur 11,082, Hamirpur 10,203, Una 9,451, Bilaspur 8,905, Kullu 6,975, Chamba 6,758, Lahaul-Spiti 2,249 and Kinnaur 2,214.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/vaccination-drive-for-18-from-may-17-in-himachal-jai-ram-101620852167240.html
13-05-2021||Other||Day after, authorities swing into action, send team to Ludhiana school to conduct probe||A day after it was reported in these columns that RS Model Senior Secondary School in Shastri Nagar was open till 3.30pm for staff despite curfew, the school ordered shut down following intervention of the education department. The decision came after the deputy commissioner sent a team of the education department to the school premises to conduct an inquiry. The school was found open for the third consecutive day on Wednesday. While the school closed at 11am instead of the usual 3.30 pm, authorities later sent a message to their staff stating that the school will remain closed from now onwards. The directions to close the school were issued by DC Varinder Kumar Sharma. “We had sent a team to the school and directed them to shut down as no private school is allowed to remain open. We will take action if they still remain open,” said district education officer (DEO) Lakhvir Singh. It was reported on May 11 that tossing all Covid norms to the wind, the government-aided private school had been calling its entire staff of around 70 teachers to school daily for taking online classes from the school premises despite strict curfew orders. Interestingly, the district education officer is on board on the school’s managing committee. The district administration only permits government school teachers to come to school at 50% strength and that too from 8 am to 11.15 am. The school remained open from Monday till Wednesday despite a number of its teachers isolating themselves.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/day-after-authorities-swing-into-action-send-team-to-ludhiana-school-to-conduct-probe-101620852106926.html
13-05-2021||Other||Covid cases breach 71k-mark as 1,215 more test positive in Ludhiana||With the second wave of the coronavirus not letting up, the district clocked 28 more deaths and 1,215 cases on Wednesday. The fresh cases catapulted the total infections reported in Ludhiana over the 71,000-mark. So far, 71,066 cases have been reported in the district, of which 12,278 are active, and 1,638 patients have succumbed to the pandemic. Of the 28 deaths reported, 14 were men and 14 were women. The youngest victim was a 30-year-old resident of Kidwai Nagar while the oldest was a 78-year-old resident of Vishal Nagar. Most fatalities were reported among people in their 50s (13), four victims were in their 30s, five in their 60s and four in their 70s.Three deaths were reported from Shimla Puri, two from Kidwai Nagar and one fatality each from Gurdev Nagar, Aggar Nagar, Model Town, Civil Lines and GLADA Heights Society.Think of families shattered, casual behaviour to blame: DC Concerned over the district’s high death rate, deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma said, “As many as 168 people have lost their lives in the district in the last seven days, with an average 24 deaths per day. The casual behaviour of a certain section of people is to be blamed for the rapid surge in cases.” “So many families have been devastated but it is not enough to jolt people to follow Covid-appropriate behaviour and refrain from crowding,” he said, while interacting with the public on his weekly Facebook live session on the official page of DPRO Ludhiana.‘Ludhiana more critical than other districts‘On the difference in relaxation timings for Jalandhar and Ludhiana, he maintained that the situation in Ludhiana was more critical. “Do not compare apples and oranges,” he said. “Ludhiana is the biggest and most populated district of the state and comparing the restrictions imposed here with other districts is unwarranted,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid-cases-breach-71k-mark-as-1-215-more-test-positive-in-ludhiana-101620851446891.html
13-05-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: 35% of those dead in April had no comorbidities||Nearly 35% of those who died of Covid-19 in the month of April had no comorbid conditions and were reasonably healthy, data released by the Ludhiana health department has revealed. The monthly death count also shot up to 231 in April as compared to January and February when the figure remained in two digits at 36 and 29 respectively. In March, the monthly fatality count stood at 115. As per the data, out of the total 231 Covid deaths in April, 152 victims were suffering from comorbidities while 79 had no prior health issues. The data also found that the 60-plus age group was more susceptible as 55% of the total deaths in April fell in this age category. The 50 to 60 age group accounted for 25% of the deaths while 20% were under the age of 50. The deaths among women also rose from 50 in March to 99 in April in the district. The combined female death count of January and February stood at 13. The data also shows that out of the 231 fatalities, 167 deaths (72%) were reported in urban areas, 14 (6%) in the urban block (towns) and 50 (22%) in rural areas of the city. Dr Bishav Mohan, member of the Covid task force of the state, said, “There are three reasons for the rise in casualties. The first is that the virulence (severity) of the virus has increased which makes considerably healthy persons extremely sick. Secondly, there has been a rise in the number of infections in rural areas. The third reason is that people are seeking medical help only when their condition starts deteriorating. By the time they reach the hospital, they are in a critical state, which increases their chances of succumbing to the virus. Early testing, treatment and awareness are imperative to save the patients in such situations.” District family planning officer Dr SP Singh, who is also the nodal officer for Covid, said, “This time around, the virus is undoubtedly more aggressive and virulent. We are increasingly witnessing cases where patients have absolutely no comorbidities. Patients below the age of 40 are being hospitalised with serious complications as well despite not having any history of diabetes and hypertension.” Observing that people’s negligence was responsible for the surge in cases, Singh said, “The method of arresting the virus’ spread is still the same. Despite making all efforts to raise awareness, the younger population is still taking the virus lightly, which was not the case during the first wave, when people feared Covid.” Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) director general Balram Bhargav said more younger people were testing positive during the second wave as they had suddenly started stepping out. “There are some variants prevalent in the nation which may also be affecting younger people,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-35-of-those-dead-in-april-had-no-comorbidities-101620850547493.html
13-05-2021||Chandigarh||Convene all-party meeting on Covid situation in Punjab: SAD to Capt||The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Wednesday urged chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh to call an all-party meeting to discuss the precarious situation in the wake of rising number of Covid-19 deaths in Punjab and find ways to provide financial relief to different sections of society. Party president Sukhbir Singh Badal said this while presiding over a meeting at the party head office in Chandigarh. The Akali leaders said the Congress government in the state should try to take everyone along in the fight against the pandemic and an all-party meeting was necessary to ensure that everyone worked in synergy and assist the government to provide necessary aid to people. The SAD chief also reviewed the relief being provided by the party and its youth wing. He said aid had been extended to 50 assembly constituencies and efforts will be made to reach out to all segments in the coming days. The party leaders also took note of the sufferings of people due to the ongoing lockdown in the state and stressed the need to give relief to all sections of society. The worst-affected were taxi operators, rickshaw pullers, small shopkeepers and labourers, they said, adding that the government should provide financial relief to them. They also asked the government to provide relief to the middle class by deferring bank loan installments or waive installments for six months. The government should also address the grievances of the traders at the earliest, they said. On black marketing of Covid cure medicines, Sukhbir said it was unfortunate that private hospitals were charging lakhs of rupees from infected people and the government was not intervening in the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/convene-all-party-meeting-on-covid-situation-in-punjab-sad-to-capt-101620850068175.html
13-05-2021||Chandigarh||Inadequate canal water, bad weather delay cotton sowing in Punjab’s Malwa belt||Lack of canal water supply for irrigation and inclement weather conditions in the last two weeks have slowed sowing of cotton in the semi-arid Malwa region of southern Punjab.The crop was sowed on nearly 70,000 hectares till Monday, 22% of this year’s target area of 3.25 lakh hectares, state agriculture officials said. The exercise is expected to be over by May 23 with a delay of eight days in the government’s sowing schedule.Sowing on more than 12,000 hectares area in Mansa district was delayed due to the non-availability of canal water, it is learnt. Sharanjit Singh of Mansa’s Mann Khera village, who owns 24-acre land, said he was able to sow cotton on about 5 acres using tubewell. “Groundwater is not of good quality in the Sardulgarh area and we depend on water supplied from the Bhakra canal. But the supply was suspended for over 14 days due to a breach in the canal and we are now left in the lurch. Delay in sowing will impact the cotton quality and the crop may be vulnerable to pest attack,” he said.Pargat Singh, a cotton grower from Sangha village whose joint family has 22-acre land, said the delay in sowing has worried them. “Agriculture experts say May 15 is the ideal time for sowing and we have already lost the golden time. The farmers were encouraged by last year’s good yield of 8-10 quintals per acre produce and the crop sale was also hassle-free with handsome rates offered. But this time inadequate electricity supply and lack of canal water worry us,” he added.Mansa chief agriculture officer Manjit Singh said the Bhakra mainline had major damage near Fatehpur village and water in the channel is expected to be released tonight. “All villages are expected to get water in the next 24 hours,” he added.Punjab agriculture deputy director for cotton Rajesh Kumar Raheja said the state’s target is to cover 3.25 lakh hectares under cotton this year, an increase of 74,000 hectares from the last season’s 2.25 lakh hectares.Raheja said except Mansa no other district of Malwa belt had any irrigation issue for cotton sowing. “In the last two weeks, cotton-growing districts witnessed cloudy weather. Farmers apprehend rainfall and re-sowing means more expenses. Climatic conditions slowed sowing which will be over in the next 10 days,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/inadequate-canal-water-bad-weather-delay-cotton-sowing-in-punjab-s-malwa-belt-101620850067145.html
13-05-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: Lost album regained||The cover is black. The album’s hundreds of photos are in black-and-white. The back label says — Made in England.This photo album was discovered one afternoon at the Sunday Book Bazaar, in Delhi’s Mahila Haat. It was buried under a pile of Sidney Sheldon paperbacks. The album was purchased for a mere ₹100.Inside is the documentation of one man’s life. Most photos cover India and England from the 1920s to the early 1940s, when we were still colonised by the British. The earliest pictures were taken in a family mansion in Ahmedabad, year 1925. Each page is extensively annotated in a clear, beautiful handwriting, with a pencil whose grey glossy shade shines out of the album’s black pages. The opening page shows a boy in various poses. Some pages later, the scenes shift to 1940, with a page marked, “Our ship to UK.” The boy has grown into a young man — he is standing in a sunlit corridor, dressed in a suit, with a woman in sari standing a few steps behind. The next page fixes the setting in Cambridge. The successive photos depict him as a law student in the university town.One does occasionally fish out precious books from the city’s famous book bazaar. But it is rare to discover something so valuable, containing such extensive photographic details of a privileged individual’s life — that too from a period so rich in history. A great many books in the market are obtained by the sellers from so-called kabadi-wallas, who collect them from households getting rid of their collections, or parts of it. This album must have been given away by mistake.Its middle section is most curious, with many pictures of a white woman; in each she is intensely gazing towards the camera, or perhaps the person holding it. The handwritten notes are missing here. She disappears abruptly, with later pages shifting back to India. Now our protagonist is in a huge mansion in Ahmedabad. He is wearing kurta pyjama. In one picture, he is sitting cross-legged on the floor, his dinner plate a large banana leaf. The album concludes with our Cambridge-returned hero posing in front of various Delhi monuments. Who was this man? What became of his life? The answers might be in other albums — hopefully they are lying safe with him, or his inheritors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-lost-album-regained-101620849848397.html
13-05-2021||Chandigarh||Purchase of Fateh kits in Punjab under lens||The purchase of ‘Fateh kits’, which are being provided by the Punjab Government to Covid-19 patients, has come under scrutiny with the National Health Mission (NHM) awarding the purchase of kits worth ₹20 crore without following the due tendering process. Also, Grand Way Incorporation, a Ludhiana-based firm which was given the purchase order, doesn’t have the drug licence — a mandatory condition to participate in the tendering process. A Fateh kit contains a digital thermometer, a steamer, a fingertip pulse oxymeter, vitamin C limcee and zinc tablets, vitamin D3 capsules, Ayush kwath, dolo and other medicines. NHM director (finance) Neeraj Singla said the purchase was made in emergency as cases of infection were rising exponentially in Punjab and the department did not have the kits to distribute it to the patients. The purchase order was given on May 7. The NHM had invited the tenders for the purchase of kits on April 29, it is learnt. The tender was reportedly cancelled because four companies quoted the same price at the rate of ₹1,780 per kit. The NHM officials claim that the tender was cancelled because all four bidders deliberately quoted the same price. “Since new tendering would have taken more time and we wanted kits immediately, one of the companies, which earlier provided 50,000 kits ₹1,095 apiece agreed to supply us kits at ₹1,195 apiece. The pandemic has taken such a turn that we needed to buy the kits urgently,” said Neeraj Singla.The company was asked to provide 1.5 lakh kits at a total cost of ₹20.07 crore. The firm was given the earlier purchase order on April 19 of supplying 50,000 kits through tendering. It did not have the mandatory drug licence while participating in the bidding process at that time also. “A bidder cannot even apply for tenders for supplying drugs without the licence as per Drugs and Cosmetics Act. The bidder was allowed to involve a third party for supplying drugs. All other applicants in both the tenders had the drug licence,” said a health department official. NHM director Kumar Rahul said the condition of having drug licence is not necessary and the company can make purchases from third party as the kit contains several items in non-medicine category. “Since the tender was cancelled, the other bidders will also be given the purchase order as our kit is in demand because of the rising Covid cases. All procedures have been duly followed,” he said. Attempts to contact Grand Way Incorporation did not yield any result.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/purchase-of-fateh-kits-in-punjab-under-lens-101620850007415.html
13-05-2021||Chandigarh||Bank employees robbed of ₹45 lakh at gunpoint in Fazilka||Unidentified persons allegedly robbed employees of a private bank of ₹45 lakh at gunpoint near Fazilka district’s Jalalabad town on Wednesday. The robbers allegedly opened fire at the car in which Kotak Mahindra’s Jalalabad branch assistant manager Luvpreet Singh and his subordinate Gurpartap Singh were travelling and threw chilli powder in their eyes before fleeing with a trunk containing the cash.No one was injured in the incident. Jalalabad deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Palwinder Singh said the bank employees did not have security personnel with them. He said two motorcycle-borne men fired on the tyres and the windscreen of the car in which Luvpreet and Gurpartap were returning to the Jalalabad branch. The accused forced the bank staffers to stop the vehicle near Chak Saidon Ke village and fled with the cash and their mobile phones. Gurpartap was driving the vehicle. The DSP said after the crime, the accused travelled towards Jalalabad for nearly 2 km from the crime spot and then took link roads.“Closed-circuit television (CCTV) cameras in the area are being scanned. We are also looking into as how the criminals knew about the movement of cash,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bank-employees-robbed-of-rs-45-lakh-at-gunpoint-in-fazilka-101620850006374.html
13-05-2021||Other||Avian flu: 9,780 more birds culled in Kila Raipur, 50,000 in last four days||As culling operations entered the fourth day at poultry farms in Kila Raipur where an avian flu outbreak has been confirmed, 9,780 birds were culled on Wednesday.
13-05-2021||Delhi||Over 4,000 ward beds, 98 ICU beds free in Delhi for first time in four weeks||The Capital on Wednesday evening had over 4,000 ward beds and 98 intensive care unit (ICU) beds, earmarked for Covid-19 patients, vacant for the first time since the second week of April when coronavirus cases had started rising rapidly. To be sure, the city has added over 7,000 beds for Covid-19 patients since then, of which nearly 2,000 were ICU beds, according to the data on the government’s Delhi Corona app. Of the total 23,345 hospital beds in Delhi, 4,682 were vacant as on Wednesday evening, putting the occupancy rate at 79.9%. Of the 5,911 ICU beds, 98 were vacant, putting the occupancy at 98.3%. In comparison, on the evening of April 16, only 443 of the 3,989 ICU beds for Covid-19 patients were vacant, putting the vacancy at 87.9%. About 10 days later, on April 26, the city had completely run out of ICU beds -- the app showed just 12 empty beds that day, and 11 of them were for pregnant women with Covid-19 and the other remaining bed, at All India Institute of Medical Sciences, was already taken. Doctors see this as a sign of the Covid-19 situation gradually easing in Delhi. “The situation is definitely improving; now, there are oxygen beds available in the hospital and we do not have to refuse any patient. We have restarted all admissions. The ICUs are still full because patients, once admitted, need nearly three weeks to recover from Covid-19,” said a doctor from one of Delhi’s large private hospitals, asking not to be named. On Wednesday, Delhi reported 13,287 new Covid-19 cases, up from Tuesday’s 12,481, according to the state health bulletin. But even that figure was far less than what was reported during the last two weeks of April, when an average of 23,000 new cases were reported daily. Another doctor from the Delhi government-run Lok Nayak hospital, said on condition of anonymity, “The rush of patients in need of admissions has reduced over the past two or three days. Earlier, we were getting 150 to 170 patients each day; that has gone down to about 80 to 100 daily.” This also means that the oxygen requirement of hospitals has also reduced. “Not only has the supply of oxygen been streamlined, the requirement itself has gone down,” said a doctor from Burari hospital, asking not to be named. Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain in a press briefing on Tuesday said, “At the moment, there is no problem with beds in relation to oxygen. The demand for oxygen is decreasing now that the cases are going down, but we should keep getting the oxygen; otherwise there will be problems. We need 700MT of oxygen daily, and we are getting a little less than that (currently).” There was acute pressure on Delhi hospitals between April 27 and May 3, according to a senior administrator from Delhi government-run Rajeev Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital. “There are fewer people coming to the hospital now that cases have gone down and beds are available. The situation was critical between April 27 and May 3,” the administrator said, adding that the extensions set up by the government also helped ease the burden on the hospital. At its peak, the hospitalisations in Delhi had touched 22,000 at any given point during the current wave of the pandemic, according to Jain. “The demand for beds is still there, there are still 20,000 people admitted to hospitals. But the maximum occupancy during the previous wave was 9,500 ( in November), while during the current one, it is around 22,000. That is a huge number,” the minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/over-4-000-ward-beds-98-icu-beds-free-in-delhi-for-first-time-in-four-weeks-101620849465936.html
13-05-2021||Other||At least 29 ‘black fungus’ cases in AIIMS, Ganga Ram spark worry||New Delhi: Hospitals are recording a spike in cases of mucormycosis, a potentially deadly fungal infection, as the surge in Covid-19 cases has led many people to be prescribed steroids and immunomodulators, which leave some people vulnerable to other pathogens. Mucormycosis, also known as black fungus, has been seen among those who have uncontrolled diabetes, whose immunity is compromised or those who are given excessive steroids or immune-modulating drugs such as tocilizumab. According to doctors, if left untreated, it may kill 80% of those infected. If not detected early, it affects the orbit of the eye and the mouth, resulting in people losing their vision or jaw during debridement — the process of removing dead tissue from an infection or wound.At least 10 patients suspected to have contracted mucormycosis are currently admitted to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS). Doctors said the centre used to see only two such cases a month previously. “We have 10 patients admitted in the ENT department who, we suspect, have mucormycosis. Now, we are seeing reports of opportunistic infections like mucormycosis from Gujarat and other areas where it (tocilizumab) was used a lot. Many Covid-19 patients either have underlying diabetes or their blood sugar levels became uncontrollable because of the steroids given for treatment. Some of them (Covid patients) also receive medicines, such as tocilizumab and itolizumab, which furthers the aggressive decline in the immune system. All this leads to a very high chance of opportunistic infections,” said Dr Randeep Guleria, director of AIIMS, in a webinar. Dr Alok Thakar, head of the ENT department at AIIMS, said, “We are seeing a surge over the last week or so. The last time we saw a surge in mucormycosis cases was when Covid-19 cases increased but this time, the number of cases is greater. Since last year, we are treating probably three to four patients a month and now, we are treating four patients a day at times. For the last three days, we have been getting four to five patients a day.” “It generally occurs a couple of weeks after the onset of Covid-19 infections. However, it is still rare even among Covid-19 patients ; very few who have recovered will get it,” said Thakar. He said people should maintain basic hygiene after recovering from Covid-19 to ensure that they do not get any infections, stay away from soil, and also get their blood sugar levels tested.Another 19 people with mucormycosis are admitted at Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, said Dr Ajay Swaroop, head of the ENT department at the hospital. “Before Covid-19, I would have seen as many cases probably in five years. We get one patient with the fungal infection in three to four months; that too because we are a big tertiary-care facility. Now, we are hearing of patients in other city hospitals who have contracted mucormycosis and who want to move in here for treatment.” The sudden increase has also resulted in a shortage of anti-fungal medicines used for treating the infection. “The anti-fungal drugs are not freely available and there is a shortage because the demand has gone up again,” said Dr Guleria. Dr Swaroop said, “Although I don’t know the current situation about the drugs, but it stands to reason that if 35 people need it instead of the usual five, there will be a shortage. The lypholised (freeze-dried) drug that is slightly better and less toxic to other organs was anyway difficult to get.” Black fungus infection numbers went up 2.5 times last year between September and December across 16 centres in the country, said Dr Arunaloke Chakrabarti, head of the department of microbiology at Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education & Research, Chandigarh. He is part of the Fungal Infection Study Forum and is one of the members who drafted the government advisory on mucormycosis. “It is likely to go up further this time; we are planning to conduct another study,” he said. Chakrabarti added not much is known about whether the immune dysregulation caused by Covid-19 could be causing the secondary fungal infection but there are three known reasons for it. “One, uncontrolled sugar in Covid-19 patients; nearly 7 to 20% of Covid-19 patients who have diabetes may be at risk of contracting the infection (mucormycosis). Two, for those without diabetes, high use of steroids may lead to poor glycemic control after Covid-19, thereby leading to the fungal infection. Three, the ferritin levels go up during a Covid-19 infection. Ferritin is known to contain iron which is a good food for mucormycosis,” said Dr Chakrabarti. The study done by his team found the infection usually happens 18 days after the onset of Covid-19. “So people should look out for pain in left or right side of the face, nasal blockage, nasal discharge, especially black discharge. Loosening of teeth has also been seen this time among Gujarat patients. If a diagnosis is delayed and the infection enters the eye orbit, it causes double vision, blurring, or protrusion of the eye. It can also cause ulcers in the palate of the mouth,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/at-least-29-black-fungus-cases-in-aiims-ganga-ram-spark-worry-101620849405898.html
13-05-2021||Delhi||Covid-19 testing centre set up at DU’s Hansraj College||Delhi University’s (DU) Hansraj College on Wednesday set up a Covid-19 testing centre on its premises for the university community, days after college principal Rama Sharma wrote to various authorities offering the campus for the setting up of a Covid care centre, vaccination centre, and a testing centre.Sharma had last week written to the lieutenant-governor (L-G) Anil Baijal, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, and health minister Satyendar Jain, among others, offering up the Hansraj College campus for Covid-19 related activities.In her letter dated May 9, Sharma said, “We are all going through a bad phase and the pandemic is posing many challenges. It is increasingly being understood that each one of us must come forward and lend our hands, resources, and logistics to fight the pandemic... Hansraj College has a hostel that caters to 200 residents. We are ready to offer the space and with your support that can be converted into a 100-bed ICU facility as the Covid patients are not getting hospital beds and that is causing anxiety. University employees and their families are also facing challenges as facilities are scattered and infected people are increasing every day.”She had also requested a vaccination centre and a testing centre on the campus. “We also request you to set up a vaccination centre (Covishield) (currently there is no vaccination centre in the North Campus) and testing centre in the college for the university teaching and non-teaching staff,” she wrote.“We have opened this RT-PCR testing centre in collaboration with a private company. There was no testing centre on the DU’s North Campus until now. The centre also provides home collection service to the university staff and test reports will be given within 24 hours,” Sharma said.“We also want to start a vaccination centre and a 100-bed covid care facility on the college campus as soon as possible. We are ready with 100 beds and if the government provides us with the resources we can set up a proper Covid-19 care centre,” the principal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covid19-testing-centre-set-up-at-du-s-hansraj-college-101620849346481.html
13-05-2021||Other||HC says high time to fix MRP of oxygen concentrators, summons all booked for hoarding to attend virtual hearing||New Delhi: The Delhi high court on Wednesday told the Centre that it was “high time” to fix maximum retail price (MRP) of oxygen concentrators and other equipment used for the treatment of Covid-19 patients to stem out alleged malpractices such as hoarding and black marketing.A bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli also issued contempt notice to every person, including businessman Navneet Kalra, named in over 50 FIRs lodged between May 2 to May 8 in cases of alleged hoarding and black marketing, and directed them to appear before the court virtually on May 19. The bench said the notices will be served to the people named in the FIRs through the station house officers (SHOs) of the police stations where the cases are registered.The court directed that the notices will also be sent to individuals whose name were added to the FIR during the course of investigation.“We direct issuance of court notice to all accused in said cases...This should be served to SHO of local police stations concerned where cases are registered… Issue notice to accused name in FIR and those added as accused in course of investigation…,” the court said in its oral order.The discussion on the price of the oxygen concentrators began after advocate Sanjeev Sagar, counsel for one of the petitioners, Manish Chauhan, said public prosecutors and judicial officers were unaware of the May 2 order of the bench. Chauhan, a resident of Delhi, was seeking court’s directions to the government to declare medicines and medical equipment meant for Covid treatment as essential items under the Essential Commodities Act. Sagar told the court that a trial court has said that offences cannot be “made up” against such individuals and the option was to book them for contempt of court if they are selling medicines or equipment at exorbitant rates.The bench was shown media reports which said that the concerned trial court, while hearing the anticipatory bail filed by restaurateur Kalra, in connection with the seizure of oxygen concentrators from his restaurants, said that first a law has to be made to regulate prices, and people cannot be penalised in a hurry because the high court wanted steps to be taken.Amicus curiae and senior advocate Rajshekhar Rao said the trial court cannot be blamed since a price cap has not yet been fixed for a majority of the imported equipment, and the central government has to inform the high court what steps it has taken.Central government standing counsel Amit Mahajan told the court that the issue was under consideration, and sought time to inform the bench as to what decision has been taken. He assured that a decision will be taken soon.The court asked Sagar to prepare a note on fixing prices, for informing public prosecutors and judicial officers in the subordinate courts, and said it will be circulated by the Delhi government.The court was hearing a plea by lawyer-petitioner Rakesh Malhotra, who, along with several hospitals, sought directions to the Centre and the Delhi government for better facilities and continuous supply of oxygen in the hospitals and nursing homes of the city.The notices to those named in the FIR were issued in accordance with a May 2 order of the bench in which it warned of contempt action against all those indulging in hoarding of medical equipment or medicines, or selling them at prices above MRP. It said that the issue of fixing the price for the oxygen concentrators and other equipment has been pending with the Centre since June 2020, but no concrete decision has been taken so far. “It is high time that MRP for oxygen concentrators and all other equipment for the treatment of Covid is fixed so malpractices are immediately stemmed,” the bench said.The matter will be now heard on May 19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hcsays-high-time-to-fix-mrp-of-oxygen-concentrators-summons-all-booked-for-hoarding-to-attend-virtual-hearing-101620849345921.html
13-05-2021||Delhi||As infections ease Covid-19 beds free up in Delhi hospitals||The Capital on Wednesday evening had over 4,000 vacant ward beds and 98 vacant intensive care unit (ICU) beds for Covid-19 patients for the first time since the second week of April, when coronavirus cases started rising rapidly. To be sure, the city has added over 7,000 beds for Covid patients since then, of which nearly 2,000 are ICU beds, according to the Delhi Corona app.Of the 23,345 hospital beds in Delhi, 4,682 were vacant as on Wednesday evening, putting the occupancy rate at 79.9%. Of the 5,911 ICU beds, 98 were vacant, putting the occupancy at 98.3%.In comparison, on the evening of April 16, only 443 of the 3,989 ICU beds for Covid-19 patients were vacant, putting the vacancy at 87.9%. About 10 days later, on April 26, the city had completely run out of ICU beds -- the app showed just 12 empty beds that day, and 11 of them were for pregnant women infected with Covid-19; the other remaining bed, at All India Institute of Medical Sciences, was already taken.Doctors see this as a sign of the Covid-19 situation gradually easing in Delhi. “The situation is improving; now, there are oxygen beds available in the hospital and we do not have to refuse any patient. We have restarted all admissions. The ICUs are still full because patients, once admitted, need nearly three weeks to recover from Covid-19,” said a doctor from one of Delhi’s large private hospitals, asking not to be named.On Wednesday, Delhi reported 13,287 new Covid-19 cases, marginally up from Tuesday’s 12,481, according to the state health bulletin. These figures are far less than what was from the average 23,000 new cases reported daily during the last two weeks of April.The Covid-19 test positivity rate has dropped slowly, but steadily over the past three weeks, since it peaked at 36.24% on April 22. It has dropped every day for the past five days, and fell to 17.03% on Wednesday.Another doctor from the Delhi government-run Lok Nayak hospital said on condition of anonymity: “The rush of patients in need of admissions has reduced over the past two or three days. Earlier, we were getting 150 to 170 patients each day; that has gone down to about 80 to 100 daily.”A doctor from Burari hospital said the oxygen demand has also stabilised. “Not only has the supply of oxygen been streamlined, the requirement itself has gone down a little,” he said.Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain, in a press briefing on Tuesday, said, “At the moment, there is no problem with beds in relation to oxygen. The demand for oxygen is decreasing now that the cases are going down, but we should keep getting the oxygen; otherwise there will be problems. We need 700 MT of oxygen daily, and we are getting a little less than that currently.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/as-infections-ease-covid-19-beds-free-up-in-delhi-hospitals-101620849178918.html
13-05-2021||Delhi||4 men, trained by Jamtara gangs, held for duping Covid-19 patients||The police have arrested four men who were allegedly trained in cyber crime by gangs of Jamtara, Jharkhand, and used to cheat Covid-19 patients and/or relatives in Delhi-NCR of money after promising them oxygen cylinders. Delhi Police said while six cases that were reported from Delhi have been solved.The accused have been identified as 19-year-old Ritik Singh, Yogesh Singh, 23-year-old Mohammad Arzoo and 24-year-old Ravish Abiram. Police have recovered six mobile phones, 14 SIM cards, a laptop, three two-wheelers, and multiple ATM cards, PAN cards and credit cards from these men.Deputy commissioner of police (central) Jasmeet Singh said on May 3, police received a complaint from a Karol Bagh resident, Kshitij Mehra, who said he had contacted on a phone number to enquire about an oxygen cylinder for his friend who was a Covid-19 patient.“Mishra said the man who answered the call introduced himself as Ritik Singh and demanded payment for the cylinder. Mishra paid him ₹47, 500 in several online payments after which the man was not reachable on phone. Once we got the complaint, we investigated the money trail, found the bank accounts and SIM cards used in the fraud and zeroed in on Ritik Singh. Subsequently, a search was conducted in Farrukhabad, Uttar Pradesh, and the suspect was arrested last Friday,” the DCP said.Singh said following Ritik’s arrest, his accomplices Yogesh, Arzoo and mastermind Ravish were all arrested on Monday.“During further investigation, Ravish told police that he had undergone training in cyber fraud in Jamtara, Jharkhand, and he had learnt different techniques to dupe people. He admitted that they used to get innocent men and women to open bank accounts by offering them a fixed salary every month. The mobile phone used to cheat people and the credit and debit cards used to withdraw the amount from the said accounts were also recovered from the possession of the arrested men,” the DCP said.He said police have so far worked out six cases of cheating reported from Karol Bagh, Hauz Khas, Najafgarh, Kalkaji, Uttam Nagar and Kotla Mubarakpur in Delhi. “Further probe to nab the remaining members of the gang is underway,” the officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/four-cybercrime-trained-con-men-held-for-online-fraud-in-guise-of-supplying-oxygen-cylinders-101620849286553.html
13-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt partially opens the 500-bed ICU facility at Ramilia Grounds in east Delhi||The Delhi government on Wednesday partially opened a new 500-bed intensive care facility near Guru Teg Bahadur (GTB) Hospital in east Delhi. “Today (Wednesday), nearly five patients were admitted to the ICU facility created at the Ramlila ground near GTB hospital. All 500 ICU beds have not been opened yet. We have started with nearly 100 beds for now since the requirement has marginally declined in recent days,” said a senior official, asking not to be named. Explaining the admission process, a second health official said patients cannot approach the facility directly to get an admission. “Since this is a critical care centre or an ICU centre, admissions will be permitted only if the patient is referred here by the GTB hospital, to which this centre is attached. So, a person requiring treatment need to first go to the GTB hospital and doctors there will have to send them here,” the official said. The temporary facility is fully air-conditioned, has oxygen generation plants and free Wi-Fi for patients. A senior official of the public works department (PWD), which built the facility, said the centre was created in a record time of 10 days. A similar facility is being created at the main Ramlila Ground near Lok Nayak hospital. This will also have 500 ICU beds and will be ready in a day or two, the first official quoted above said. On April 27, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had announced the setting up of these two intensive care facilities at the Ramlila grounds in central Delhi and east Delhi as well as adding 200 ICU beds at the Sardar Patel Covid Care Centre. He had said the state would have an additional 1,200 beds for Covid treatment by May 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-partially-opens-the-500-bed-icu-facility-at-ramilia-grounds-in-east-delhi-101620849285908.html
13-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi government likely to announce cap on prices of oxygen cylinders||The Delhi government is planning to cap the prices of oxygen cylinders in the Capital and has increased the number of procurement points for the public from 14 to at least 94, senior officials said on Wednesday.“We are actively considering capping the prices of oxygen cylinders. On Tuesday, we held a meeting with all dealers, refillers and district magistrates to discuss the issue. A decision will be taken soon,” said Ashish Kundra, Delhi transport commissioner and officer-on-special duty (health).A senior official on condition, who asked not to be named, said that during Tuesday’s meeting, retailers said the rate for D-type cylinders should be capped at around ₹700 a unit, while the rate for re-fillers should be ₹350. The cost of a B-type cylinder, retailers said, should be around ₹250. The final rates are yet to be fixed, the official said.Oxygen cylinders are categorised as types A to H, depending on their size and capacity, with A being the smallest. The B-type cylinders are usually used by individual patients, while D-type cylinders are used by hospitals in manifold rooms connected to the hospital’s main gas pipeline.On average, Delhi has been receiving 579.25 metric tonnes (MT) of oxygen a day from the Centre, of which 42% is being supplied by the railways and 58% is coming through roadways, state government data showed.The decentralised pool of refill points should also ease the city’s oxygen bottlenecks, said officials.Until recently, officials said, small hospitals, ambulances, as well as families of Covid-19 patients in home isolation, were queueing at these 14 refill points, resulting in waits of eight or 10 hours in many instances.“This has been decentralised to some extent now with the central pool of cylinders, to which we have given all district magistrates access. To make cylinders more accessible to patients, we have also identified at least 80 dealers or retailers who will be issued licenses to sell cylinders. So, with these 80 dealers along and 14 refillers, we will have a network of at least 94 authorised points where people can get oxygen cylinders,” Kundra said.All these 94 points have been linked to the government’s online oxygen portal.A Bawana-based dealer whose name and number were recently linked to the government portal said, “On May 10, we got permission to refill oxygen cylinders. We are asking for the IDs of the patient and the person who has come to refill the cylinder, along with a doctor’s prescription.”Another dealer, who asked not to be named, said, “We have been getting calls from people for oxygen supply ever since our name was put up on the website, but we can’t help them, because we are not getting oxygen supply.”But V Ashok, another dealer listed on the portal, said, “We are providing empty oxygen cylinders to people right now, because we do not have clarity about oxygen supply. So, we are guiding those who come to us to the nearest oxygen refilling plant. I hope the government gives some clarity on whether these dealers are allowed to refill cylinders and sell them in their stores.”The senior official quoted above said the government is getting in touch with all dealers, giving them the licenses and clearances necessary and explaining the process to them.“The dealers will have to get cylinders, refill them and sell them. They can include the transportation costs and minor profit margin. The government will soon cap the prices of these medical goods,” said the official.Residents on Wednesday pointed out that the oxygen cylinder booking portal that was announced by the Delhi government a week ago has not yet been made fully operational.The “online booking for refilling of oxygen cylinder-Delhi government-corona relief” link, which was put up on the Delhi government’s portal on May 6, was replaced with “Oxygen cylinder near you” a few days back, which provides the list of 94 oxygen dealers/depots along with their address and contact numbers.Satyajit Vaish, President of Manav Vikas Society and a resident of Panchsheel Park who has been helping people in home isolation arrange oxygen cylinders, said, “Most of these dealers don’t answer the phone. They can’t provide or refill an oxygen cylinder. One has to go to the authorised refilling plants. The government must provide at least one dealer in each assembly constituency where people can get the cylinders refilled.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-government-likely-to-announce-cap-on-prices-of-oxygen-cylinders-101620849225938.html
13-05-2021||Other||Cameroonian resident held for duping 40 people of ₹9 lakh||New Delhi: In a first known case of alleged involvement of foreigners in a Covid-related scam in Delhi, a woman from Cameroon, along with her boyfriend, duped more than 40 Covid-19 patients and their family members of nearly ₹9 lakh on the pretext of offering remdesivir injections, said police on Wednesday.Remdesivir is a key anti-viral drug used in the treatment of Covid-19 and is currently in high demand in the national capital due to the unprecedented surge in infections. While the woman, Ashwingwo Ashelly Azenmbuh , has been arrested from a rented flat in south Delhi’s Devli Khanpur, her boyfriend, Elumara Christian alias Emeka from Nigeria, is on the run. A total of 12 bank accounts that the couple had been operating in Delhi and other states were identified and blocked, said police. Deputy commissioner of police (outer-north) Rajiv Ranjan Singh said the couple had uploaded details of a fake company “Global Suppliers”, along with a cellphone number, on social media. They introduced themselves as supplier of remdesivir injections. The Covid patients or their relatives who contacted them were asked to deposit an advance in bank accounts for the delivery of the injections, said Singh.“The suspects withdrew the money within minutes of the patients and their family members depositing the money in their bank accounts and thereafter, avoided receiving their calls. They even blocked the callers who paid the advance. The couple has cheated about 40 people across India on the pretext of providing remdesivir injections,” said the DCP adding that so far, they have identified 23 victims who were (collectively) cheated of nearly ₹7.5 lakh. Police said that on May 5, one Rakhi Gupta from Rohini filed a complaint alleging that she was duped of ₹25,000 that she paid to obtain five vials of remdesivir injection needed for her Covid-positive relative. Gupta said since the injections were not available with chemist and pharmacy shops, she started looking for possible leads on social media from where she got the number of a supplier, said police. “Gupta contacted the person, who asked her to provide with the prescription slip of the patient and demanded ₹5,000 for each injection. The person tricked her into depositing ₹25,000 in a bank account. Thereafter, the person neither delivered the injections nor refunded the money. A case of cheating was registered on Gupta’s complaint,” said Singh.Through technical surveillance and intelligence gathering, the police traced the suspects to a flat in Devli Khanpur in south Delhi. It was learnt that a couple from African origin lived in the flat. A police team went to the area after receiving information that the suspected woman was in the house on the night of May 8. The team members waited the entire night for the male suspect but he did not turn up.“On the morning of May 9, the team raided the flat and arrested the woman. Our teams are taking efforts to nab her boyfriend who is on the run,” said Singh. The police said that 10 SIM cards, five cellphones and two wi-fi hotspot devices that were being used for the crimes were seized from the flat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cameroonian-resident-held-for-duping-40-people-of-9-lakh-101620849166480.html
13-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt schools get nod to upload Class 10 marks by June 20||The education department on Tuesday allowed Delhi government schools to upload the tabulated marks of Class 10 students, based on internal assessments, by June 20 if their teachers are engaged in Covid duties. Earlier this month, the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) had said the results will be declared by June 20.The education department’s decision comes a week after the Delhi government schools asked the CBSE to review its timeline for the declaration of Class 10 results. In a notification released on May 1, the CBSE said schools will have to conduct pending assessments, if any, by May 15 through telephone calls or other modes, finalize results by May 25, check and moderate marks by May 28 and submit marks to the CBSE by June 5.On May 4, HT had reported how teachers and principals of various Delhi government schools said it may be difficult to adhere to the CBSE timeline since teachers were engaged in Covid duties such as door-to-door survey in hotspots, assistance in contact tracing and testing, screening at the airport and in vaccination-related activities.Last week, the Delhi government had written to the national board asking them to review the timeline. A senior official of the education department said, “The board informed us we can have internal flexibility. This is why we asked schools to upload the marks by June 20. Based on their situation and available resources, schools can decide when to carry out the particular tasks within the stipulated time-frame.”On Tuesday, additional director of education (exam) Rita Sharma asked government schools to stick to the CBSE schedule “as far as possible”, allowing an extension to only those schools which are struggling with resources. Sharma asked schools to submit marks by June 20 and gave them the autonomy to manage the timeline as per their “conditions and circumstances.”“Keeping in view the high number of Covid-19 cases in Delhi, the lockdown that has restricted the movement of teachers, and deployment of teachers for various Covid duties, the last date for uploading the marks of internal assessment (out of 20 marks) and year-end exam (out of 80 marks) on the CBSE portal may be relaxed up to 20th June, 2021,” read the circular from Sharma.Schools requiring further extension beyond June 20 can also reach out to the education department. “For such special cases for further extension of time schedule, the concerned Head of School may put up their case to Exam Branch through Deputy Director Education (District) by 18 June, 2021. The Exam branch will take up the case of such schools with CBSE for its results to be either withheld or to be declared separately by CBSE,” read the circular.Out of the 100 marks for each subject, 20 marks are for internal assessment, which has already been tabulated by the schools as per existing policy, and the remaining 80 marks are for the year-end board examinations. Due to the cancellation of exams, the board has announced that this 80-mark component will be calculated on the basis of different internal exams including unit tests, mid-terms and pre-board exams.However, the director of education on Tuesday has asked schools to calculate the 80-mark component on the basis of pre-board exams as many schools were not able to complete mid-term tests.“If any student has not appeared in any one or more than one subject(s) of the Pre Board Examinations 2021…the school may conduct one-to-one assessment of such students telephonically as per guidelines of the CBSE,” the circular read.CBSE officials did not respond to calls and messages for a comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-govt-schools-get-nod-to-upload-class-10-marks-by-june-20-101620849165885.html
13-05-2021||Chandigarh||Nearly 40% of PM Cares ventilators faulty or pending installation in Punjab||Nearly 40% of ventilators received under the PM Cares Fund in Punjab are either faulty or pending installation due to non-compatibility with equipment in state hospitals. Managing director, Punjab Health Systems Corporation, Tanu Kashyap said all 809 ventilators received through the Central scheme have been distributed. “Of these, 174 are non-functional, while 136 are yet to be installed,” she said. The state government had earlier this month flagged the issue of defective ventilators received under the scheme and urged the Centre to direct the company to repair the faulty lifesaving machines. On Wednesday, it was found that of the 80 ventilators received under the scheme at Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital, Faridkot, 71 were defective. According to official information, 47 of the 59 ventilators at Government Medical College, Amritsar, and 50 at the Government Medical College, Patiala, were also non-functional. Earlier this month, Punjab health secretary Hussan Lal had written to joint secretary, Union ministry of health and family welfare Dr Mandeep Kumar Bhandari saying that there are complaints of malfunctioning in ventilators.The health secretary said they raised the issue of defective ventilators with central authorities during video conference and through a letter in first week of May. “During the meeting, some other states also raised similar issues with the ventilators delivered under PM Cares Fund. Bharat Electronics Limited (BEL) has been entrusted the work of installation and maintenance of ventilators. The company further appointed another firm, TBS, for the purpose. The private company do not have enough manpower due to which there is delay installation and repair. A team engineers visited the Faridkot medical college on Wednesday to repair ventilators. But these machines are not compatible with other equipment installed at the hospitals across the state, so we are facing difficulty to make them functional,” he saidIn April, the Union health ministry had asked Punjab to install all 809 ventilators supplied under PM Cares Fund. The Union health secretary had said that of the total ventilators, only 558 have been installed while 251 are still pending installation. “Non-commissioning of ventilators defeats the very purpose of this exercise by the government of India. There is a need for taking urgent steps to complete the installation of the ventilators for management of Covid pandemic,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/nearly-40-of-pm-cares-ventilators-faulty-or-pending-installation-in-punjab-101620849106504.html
13-05-2021||Chandigarh||Grocery shops may close at noon, but you’ll get booze 24x7 in Ludhiana!||Though one may be hard pressed to find groceries after noon amid the curfew imposed to curb the raging second wave of the coronavirus pandemic, Bacchus lovers are still able to purchase their choicest liquor round the clock on the sly through holes carved in shutters or through back doors. While the police is coming down hard on all shops dealing with non-essential wares, including groceries, after noon, the liquor vends,which can be seen operating till late night, are somehow escaping their scanner.The vends draw their shutters in suit with other businesses at the start of curfew but the employees stay inside. Customers slip the money through the hole carved in the shutter and the salesperson pushes out bottles through the same cavity.Not sure what to purchase? No problem. Some liquor vends also allow customers to enter the shop through the back door and peruse the shelves. For the booze lovers unwilling to risk arrest, some liquor vendors are also offering home delivery.In order to evade the men in khaki, some ingenious liquor vendors have deployed lookouts to alert them should policemen on patrol be in the vicinity.Such illicit sale was observed on Ferozepur Road, near Barewal Road, outside the Railway station, Christian Medical College and Hospital (CMCH) Chowk, Shingar Cinema Road, Samrala Chowk, Janakpuri Chowk, Sufiyan Bagh Chowk, Old Jail Road, Amarpura and Transport Nagar.The light pouring out of the hole in the shutter indicates the outlet is open for business. At CMCH Chowk, it was observed that a liquor vend was conducting business with impunity after curfew, even as a police team deputed on the site turned a blind eye to the establishment.A policeman deputed near Sufiyan Chowk could be seen peeping through the hole and asking the salesman to switched off the lights.Commissioner of police Rakesh Agrawal said that sale of liquor had been banned during curfew hours, but some business owners were violating the directions. “FIRs are being lodged daily. We will ask the excise department to cancel license of those violating the curfew,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/grocery-shops-may-close-at-noon-but-you-ll-get-booze-24x7-in-ludhiana-101620848986563.html
13-05-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana boy selling socks gets admitted to school, kin get ₹2 lakh aid||Eleven-year-old Vansh Singh, whose video selling socks went viral on May 7 and was noticed by Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh, was admitted to Government Senior Secondary Smart School, PAU, Ludhiana. Vansh revealed in the video that he discontinued schooling and started working to support his family. He also refused to take ₹50 extra from the customer who shot his video. After seeing the video, CM announced that the boy will be admitted to the school again by district administration. The CM had also made a video call to him and announced full financial support in his education, besides ₹2 lakh as immediate assistance for the family. On Wednesday, Ludhiana deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma handed over a cheque for ₹2 lakh to the boy’s father Paramjit Singh. The DC also got Vansh’s elder brother Mannat Singh admitted to Class 10 in the same school. His elder brother had earlier dropped out of school to support his family. Vansh’s father Paramjit also sells socks and mother Rani is a homemaker. Vansh has three sisters and an elder brother, and the family lives in a rented accommodation in Haibowal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-boy-selling-socks-gets-admitted-to-school-kin-get-rs-2-lakh-aid-101620848806438.html
13-05-2021||Chandigarh||One held for abducting, snatching service weapon of ASI in Amritsar||A Vallah village resident in Amritsar was arrested on Wednesday for allegedly abducting an assistant sub-inspector (ASI) after snatching his service revolver with the help o his two aides in the Makboolpura area on Tuesday night. The ASI, Chatar Singh, was later on thrown out of the running car. The arrested accused has been identified as Sukhjinder Singh. The police have identified Sukhjinder’s two aides as Harjinder Singh and Harjit Singh, who are absconding.A police team led-by sub-inspector (SI) Tarlochan Singh had set up a barricade near Mehta Turn in Makboolpura when a Hyundai Verna car was indicated to stop. Instead of stopping, the car sped past the barricading.Tarlochan instructed the ASI and head constable Malkit Singh to chase the accused on a motorcycle.Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP-City3) Harpal Singh said: “The accused were chased down after a few kilometres. The ASI told the accused to turn their car towards the police station. The ASI sat with the accused in their car. Instead of turning the car towards the police station, the accused sped it towards the Grand Trunk (GT) road. When the ASI opposed the move, the accused manhandled him and snatched his service revolver at gunpoint. The ASI was thrown out of the car a few kilometres away.”While one of the accused has been arrested, hunt is on to nab the others, he said. A case under Sections 379-B (snatching by force), 353 (assault to deter public servant), 186 (obstructing public servant), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 34 (common intention) of the IPC, and 25-54-59 of the Arms Act has been registered. The police have also recovered the Verna car and the snatched service revolver.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/one-held-for-abducting-snatching-service-weapon-of-asi-in-amritsar-101620848507334.html
13-05-2021||Chandigarh||Caught on camera raping widow in Bathinda, ASI held, dismissed||An assistant sub-inspector (ASI) was arrested and dismissed on Wednesday for allegedly raping a widow. Gurwinder Singh was posted with the crime investigation agency (CIA) of Bathinda police.The accused cop was caught on camera in a compromising position with the woman at her residence at a village under the Nathana police station late on Tuesday night.Relatives of the victim handed over the ASI to the police. A case under Section 376 of the IPC was registered against him.The woman alleged that the cop was exploiting her sexually after implicating her son in an NDPS case. Gurwinder had arrested her son allegedly with 400gm opium on May 6.Senior superintendent of police (SSP) BS Virk said as per the woman’s statement, Gurwinder raped her on May 10. The cop again visited her residence on Tuesday night and his conduct was recorded on a camera. Taking a strict note of the incident, Gurwinder was dismissed from the service,” he said.Virk said the woman has not complained of extortion but the charge levelled by her relatives before the media will also be investigated.“A special investigation team will be constituted to probe allegations that her son was implicated and money was also demanded. Strict action will be taken against cops found guilty in the probe,” said the SSP.Women’s panel seeks status report by May 17Chandigarh: Taking note of the incident, the Punjab State Women Commission on Wednesday sought a status report by May 17 from Bathinda SSP. Chairperson of women commission Manisha Gulati said the matter came to her notice through media reports. She directed the SSP to depute a senior officer to investigate the case and send the status report through an e-mail by May 17.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/caught-on-camera-raping-widow-in-bathinda-asi-held-dismissed-101620848326325.html
13-05-2021||Chandigarh||Widow shot dead, male friend injured over ‘illicit relationship’ in Tarn Taran village||A 45-year-old widow was shot dead while her 36-year-old male friend was injured over suspected illicit relationship at Bhathal Sehja Singh village near Chohla Sahib town on Tuesday.The widow was a resident of Bhathan Sehja Singh village while her friend belonged to Chamba Khurd village. Police have booked three persons, including the man’s father and brother. The identity of the third accused is yet to be ascertained.The widow’s husband died four years ago. She has four children—three sons (one of them is married) and a daughter. The man is also married and is father of two children—a son and a daughter.Police said the man’s family was upset over his relations with the widow. The accused pumped in three bullets into the widow killing her on the spot while bullets hit the man’s legs. The incident took place around 6pm when the widow and her friend were sitting together near a village tomb. The man was rushed to a Tarn Taran civil hospital where his condition is stated to be stable. Chohla Sahib station house officer (SHO) Paramjit Singh said they have registered a case under Sections 302 (murder), 307 (murder bid), 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the IPC and 25-54-59 of the Arms Act. He said raids were on to nab the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/widow-shot-dead-male-friend-injured-over-illicit-relationship-in-tarn-taran-village-101620848149037.html
13-05-2021||Other||NGO joins forces with CMCH to set up 50-bed Covid facility||Christian Medical College and Hospital (CMCH) and Police Public Foundation (PPF), an NGO, have teamed up to set up 50-bed Covid facility for needy patients in the city.With the help of PPF, comprising police officials and prominent industrialists, a defunct building at CMCH will be converted into a level-2 centre for infected persons.In this regard, a memorandum of understanding (MoU) was signed between CMCH director Dr William Bhatti and PPF office-bearers on Wednesday. According to Mridula Jain, a senior member of PPF, to begin with, the industry will contribute ₹65 to establish the facility.“Our objective was to start the facility in a medical institute and CMCH agreed to our proposal. Proximity to tertiary care at the hospital will help in timely shifting of patients from the proposed level-II centre if their condition deteriorates,” said Jain.Police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal said the centre will be equipped with state-of-the-art facilities.Neeraj Satija, senior vice-president of PPF, said they would ensure that the all required infrastructure is provided to the centre to ensure smooth operations. PPF also plans to earmark 10 beds for poor patients.The facility is likely to be operationalised in 10 days. Also, PPF is in talks with various companies to set up an oxygen generation plant here.Another helping hand Radha Soami Satsang Beas has also come forward and offered its premises located on Chandigarh Road near Fortis Hospital for setting up a 120-bed Covid facility. Sharing details, Congress MLA Sanjay Talwar thanked Satsang Bhawan zonal secretary for offering the space. He said all necessary facilities, including beds quilts, soaps, portable water, food, cooler and others items will be provided to the patients inside the premises.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ngo-joins-forces-with-cmch-to-set-up-50-bed-covid-facility-101620847966699.html
13-05-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab reports 197 deaths, 8,347 fresh Covid cases||Punjab on Wednesday reported 197 more coronavirus deaths, taking the toll to 11,111, while 8,347 new cases took the infection tally to 4,67,539, according to a medical bulletin.A maximum of 27 deaths were registered in Ludhiana, 20 each in Patiala and Bathinda, 19 in Amritsar, 14 in Sangrur, 9 each in Jalandhar and Muktsar and 8 in Hoshiarpur. Ludhiana also topped the chart in positive cases registering 1,215 fresh infections, followed by 874 in Bathinda, 821 in Jalandhar, 723 in Fazilka, 713 in Mohali, 582 in Patiala, 490 in Amritsar, 387 in Hoshiarpur, 378 in Mansa, 284 in Pathankot, 263 in Kapurthala, 260 in Muktsar, 222 in Sangrur, 205 in Gurdaspur, 202 in Faridkot, 184 in Ropar, 149 in Ferozepur, 135 in SBS Nagar, 95 in Fatehgarh Sahib, 60 in Tarn Taran, 55 in Barnala and 50 in Moga. The state’s overall positivity rate came down from 15% to 13.51% with Bathinda reporting highest single-day positivity rate at 27.94%, followed by 23.81% in Fazilka, 17.39% in Mansa, 16.88% in Mohali, 15.44% in Rupnagar and 15.17% in Ferozepur. The number of active cases rose from 76,856 on Tuesday to 79,963.A total of 4,971 coronavirus patients were discharged after recovering from infection, taking the number of cured persons to 3,76,465, according to the bulletin.There are 342 critical patients who are on ventilator support while 9,736 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-reports-197-deaths-8-347-fresh-covid-cases-101620847906317.html
13-05-2021||Delhi||‘High time’ to fix rates of O2 machines: Delhi HC||The Delhi high court on Wednesday told the Centre it was “high time” to fix the maximum retail prices (MRP) of oxygen concentrators and other equipment used for the treatment of Covid-19 to stem out alleged malpractices such as hoarding and black marketing.A bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli also issued contempt notice to every person, including businessman Navneet Kalra, named in over 50 FIRs lodged between May 2 to May 8 in cases of alleged hoarding and black marketing, and directed them to appear before the court virtually on May 19.The bench said the notices will be served to the people named in the FIRs through the station house officers (SHOs) of the police stations where the cases are registered.The court directed the notices be sent to individuals whose name were added to the FIR during the course of investigation.“We direct issuance of court notice to all accused in said cases...This should be served to SHO of local police stations concerned where cases are registered… Issue notice to accused name in FIR and those added as accused in course of investigation…,” the court said in its oral order.The discussion on the price of the oxygen concentrators began after advocate Sanjeev Sagar, counsel for one of the petitioners, Manish Chauhan, said public prosecutors and judicial officers were unaware of the May 2 order of the bench. Chauhan, a resident of Delhi, was seeking court’s directions to the government to declare medicines and medical equipment meant for Covid treatment as essential items under the Essential Commodities Act.Sagar told the court that a trial court has said that offences cannot be “made up” against such individuals and the option was to book them for contempt of court if they are selling medicines or equipment at exorbitant rates.The bench was shown media reports which said that the concerned trial court, while hearing the anticipatory bail filed by restaurateur Kalra, in connection with the seizure of oxygen concentrators from his restaurants, said that first a law has to be made to regulate prices, and people cannot be penalised in a hurry because the high court wanted steps to be taken.Amicus curiae and senior advocate Rajshekhar Rao said the trial court cannot be blamed since a price cap has not yet been fixed for a majority of the imported equipment, and the central government has to inform the high court what steps it has taken.Central government standing counsel Amit Mahajan told the court the issue was under consideration, and sought time to inform the bench on the decision taken. He assured that a decision will be taken soon.The court asked Sagar to prepare a note on fixing prices, for informing public prosecutors and judicial officers in the subordinate courts, and said it will be circulated by the Delhi government.The court was hearing a plea by lawyer-petitioner Rakesh Malhotra, who, along with several hospitals, sought directions to the Centre and the Delhi government for better facilities and continuous supply of oxygen in hospitals and nursing homes.The notices to those named in the FIR were issued in accordance with a May 2 order of the bench in which it warned of contempt action against all those indulging in hoarding of medical equipment or medicines, or selling them at prices above MRP.The matter will now be heard on May 19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/high-time-to-fix-rates-of-o2-machines-delhi-hc-101620847629084.html
13-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra suspends vaccination drive for 18-44 age group||The Maharashtra government on Wednesday decided to temporarily suspend the vaccination drive for the 18-44 years category and divert the vaccines that it purchased for that age group to provide second doses for those above 45, due to a shortage of available doses required to curb the spread of Covid-19. Following a state cabinet meeting on Wednesday, health minister Rajesh Tope said that the state government would divert the stock it has purchased for inoculation of people between 18 and 44 to ensure that those who require their second dose get it on time. “The government has decided to temporarily suspend the vaccination of 18-44 category. The Centre is unable to provide second doses for the national programme to vaccinate people above age 45. There is a due date to these doses and therefore it is essential to give the second dose in time. Therefore, whatever stock Maharashtra government has purchased for 18-44 category, will now be diverted for vaccination of over 45,” Tope said. He added that people should not “expect” their first dose as providing second dose to the people has become the state’s priority now. The recommended time period between the first and second doses of Covaxin and Covishield is between 28 days and 42 days in the case of the former, and 42 to 56 days in the case of the latter. The third phase of the national vaccination drive permitted states to procure vaccines for 18-44 year olds directly from the manufacturer, while the Centre would continue to procure and distribute vaccines to states for the 45 years and above age group, health care workers, frontline workers and other priority groups. At least 350,000 vaccines were bought by the state government for the 18-44 years category, whose vaccination was permitted by the Centre starting May 1. As of May 12, around 1 million vaccines were available from the stock of both the categories. The Centre’s supply to the states comes in every five to seven days: the last batch of vaccines arrived on May 9. More than 2 million people are due for their second doses, government estimates showed. “We have 1 million doses available with us, including 700,000 Covishield and 300,000 Covaxin. The vaccines that the Centre provides in the next two-three days, will be used for second doses only. For now, do not expect first dose, as we have to finish the second doses of people. We will take a decision [to restart] based on the availability after five to seven days,” Tope said. The state cabinet also decided that chief minister Uddhav Thackeray will write to Prime Minister Narendra Modi explaining to him the vaccination situation in the state. The vaccination drive in Maharashtra has been marred with lack of vaccines though the state tops the country with highest vaccination count with 18.8 million doses till May 11. Of these, 3.6 million belong to the priority categories. The state has inoculated 596,091 people in the third phase of the vaccination drive till May 11. Around 90 million people are eligible for the vaccine in Maharashtra. A senior health department official said that the state has been “aggressive” on the vaccination drive as it is the only way to arrest the magnitude of possible third wave. “Since the beginning, Maharashtra did not get enough doses. We have shown our capabilities to vaccinate 450,000 and 500,000 people in a day. But the inflow has been slow and fewer. We need around 1.5 million or 2 million doses weekly to go at a good pace. State has been aggressive in immunisation plan. Even when we did not have adequate doses, chief minister insisted that we should start the drive, as part of the preparation for the third wave,” the official requesting anonymity said. Tope said that Serum Institute of India, which manufactures Covishield, informed the chief minister that it would provide 1.5 million doses per month after May 20. “After that supply starts, we can then take a decision to restart 18-44 category’s vaccination. For now, our priority remains giving second dose for people over 45,” the minister added. Among those eligible for the second dose, 1.6 million are for Covishield and 400,000 for Covaxin. The health minister reiterated that the state government is unable to plan for the vaccination of 18-44 category as there are only two vaccine manufacturers in the country and the Centre is not giving its approval to allow import of foreign vaccines. Tope said that they discussed floating global tenders for foreign vaccines but are stuck due to Centre’s clearance. “Many in the cabinet have asked to include vaccines in the global tenders. But first the Centre has to give permission for these vaccines including, Pfizer, Moderna, Johnson & Johnson. Besides that, the cold chain has to be readied as these vaccines have to be kept in sub-zero temperatures, unlike our [Indian] vaccines which are between 2 to 8 degrees Celsius. If the Centre gives its approval, the state government has no hurdles to go in for global tenders for vaccination,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-suspends-vaccination-drive-for-18-44-age-group-101620847786837.html
13-05-2021||Other||PGIMER’s herbal antiseptic working wonders on animal wounds too||After showing promising results among humans, ‘Sepil’, a new herbal antiseptic is effectively treating animal wounds as well, as per authorities of Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (GADVASU) here.Sepil has been developed by Prof Vikas Gautam, department of medical microbiology, Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh, after extensive research spanning over a decade. The innovative drug has been granted patent and licence.“The antiseptic was able to heal even bad wounds of dogs after application,” says Dr Inderjeet Singh, vice-chancellor, GADVASU.He revealed that owing to the initial success of Sepil in chronic non-healing human wounds, we started using it on animals at the veterinary hospital here.Clinicians noticed up to 80% healing of wounds within six days among dogs.The V-C said one could barely recognise that there ever was a wound at the site after the application of Sepil along with the initial use of systemic antibiotics for five days.“The filling of the void created by the bite, no scarring and the normal hair appearance in the follow up were clearly visible. With this herbal formulation, debridement surgeries can be avoided. Moreover, pet owners can skip physical visits to the vet amid the Covid pandemic. They can apply Sepil at home and need not come to the hospital for dressing, debridement etc,” said the V-C.“The results have been encouraging with quick healing and good rejuvenation of around 5X2 cm deep wounds,” said Dr Navdeep Singh, head of veterinary surgery department at GADVASU.He stated that testing was going on in more animals and soon concrete data would be compiled.Sepil is likely to be the much-awaited solution for non-healing wounds, said Prof Vikas Gautam, the inventor of this formulation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pgimers-herbal-antiseptic-working-wonders-on-animal-wounds-too-101620847607269.html
13-05-2021||Other||Don’t search for helpline numbers on Google, cautions Ludhiana cyber cell||Creating awareness among residents regarding online fraud, the cyber cell of Ludhiana police has cautioned internet users against searching customer care numbers of banks and other financial institutions on Google or other search engines.Sub-inspector Jatinder Singh, in-charge cyber cell-2, said that there have been a slew of such incidents where fraudsters used a fake phone number listed on Google to scam people. Complainants claimed that they lost money after making calls on such numbers.He said that fraudsters have made fake websites and displayed contact numbers on them. When someone searches for a customer care or helpline number, the search engine throws up these numbers in the search results too. Upon calling these numbers, the scammers posing as customer care executives, seek personal details of the callers and steal money from their bank accounts.The SI appealed to the residents to never share their bank details with anyone. In the event of being duped, they should immediately contact the cyber cell and lodge a complaint, he said.He also advised people to visit only the authorised websites of companies or banks concerned to get the customer care numbers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/dont-search-for-helpline-numbers-on-google-cautions-ludhiana-cyber-cell-101620847606220.html
13-05-2021||Mumbai||Surge in mucormycosis cases: Maharashtra sets up task force||In view of a three to four times surge in mucormycosis or black fungal infection amid increase in recovered Covid-19 patients in the ongoing second wave, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has created an internal advisory board consisting of head of the department of ENT, ophthalmology, medicine, anaesthesia from various medical colleges in the city. Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner, BMC, said the state public health department has formed a separate task force to look into the matter of mucormycosis in the state. Since February, five major government and civic-run hospitals have recorded 151 cases of mucormycosis in recovered Covid-19 patients. Mucormycosis is a serious but rare fungal infection caused by a group of mould called mucormycetes. It causes blindness, organ dysfunction, loss of body tissue and even death if not treated on time, said doctors.“The board will investigate each case like probable source of infection, line of treatment if the patient needs infection or debridation (medical removal of dead, damaged, or infected tissue), procurement of the medicines and post-recovery treatment,” said Kakani.“In Covid-19 patients, immunity gets compromised due to some medicines like Tocilizumab and steroids. When they get exposed to mucor mould, which is commonly found in soil, plants, manure, and decaying fruits and vegetables, it becomes life threatening. It affects sinuses, brain and lungs,” said Dr Girija Suresh, senior ophthalmic consultant, Fortis Hospital, Mulund. Surge in cases in second waveThough no cumulative data is available for last year, doctors from both private and government hospitals have witnessed a drastic rise in mucormycosis cases in the second wave which started in February. At Fortis Hospital, doctors have observed a three-time rise in cases. Similarly, Dr Amol Patil, senior consultant, ENT and skull-base surgery at Nanavati Max Super Speciality Hospital, said while they treated five patients with mucormycosis last year, the number of cases since February this year has increased to around 15. “Most patients are within the age group of 30-50 years who came with sinus infection. In patients with advanced infection, we observed eye involvement causing vision loss and spread of the infection to the brain, with life-threatening sequelae (secondary infection). We are seeing more cases now as compared to last year, but we need thorough clinical studies to fully understand the reasons,” said Dr Patil.Of the 151 mucormycosis cases recorded in the second wave in the city, King Edward Memorial (KEM) Hospital, Lokmanya Tilak General Hospital also known as Sion hospital, BYL Nair, Sir JJ Hospital and RN Cooper Hospital have recorded 34, 32, 38, 40 and seven cases, respectively. Dr Mohan Joshi, dean of Sion hospital, said they were receiving one or two cases per month in the first wave of the pandemic which has now increased to seven to eight per month. Doctors believe the actual number could be higher. Dr Ajay Doiphode, president, Association of Otolaryngologists (AOI) Mumbai Branch and Mumbai ENT Association, said there is no proper system of data collection, and therefore many cases may have gone undocumented.Steroids reduce inflammation in the lungs of Covid patients, but it also reduces the immunity and increases the blood sugar levels. Dr Doiphode attributed unregulated usages of steroids that lower immunity as one of the primary reasons for the surge in cases. “When ICMR declared that steroids are helpful in the treatment of Covid-19, doctors blindly started prescribing the steroids. Patients with mild symptoms who took treatment at home are given steroids. This unregulated usage needs to be stopped,” he said. Prevention better than cureWith early detection of cases, a patient’s organs and tissues can be saved from getting surgically removed. A patient in his early stage of infection can be treated with anti-fungal injections such as Liposomal Amphotericin B injection. Dr Doiphode said, “The doses depend on the weight of the patient. Per kilogram, we administer 5mg. But in more serious cases, we increase it further. We also have another anti-fungal medicine, Posaconazole, which is given post recovery.” With this, doctors also need to monitor the kidney. But if a patient is detected at a later stage, doctors have to debride the infected tissues and organs. At Sion hospital, 11 patients have lost their eyes and six of them succumbed to the infection, as per Dr Renuka Bradoo, head of the hospital’s ENT department. “Most of the patients were middle aged with the medical history of diabetes,” she added.With the rise in the cases, the city is witnessing a shortage of Liposomal Amphotericin B injection. As per doctors, each patient needs five to six injections per day. Dr Bharmal said BMC has floated a tender to procure 190,000 of the life-saving injection and 38,000 Posaconazole tablets. “They need to fasten the procurement process or else, more patients will die,” said Dr Doiphode.Patients suffering from the fungal infection normally have stuffy nose. Sometimes, blood may ooze out of the nose. They might have swelling and pain in the eye along with drooping of eyelids and blurred eye vision. There could be black patches of skin around the nose.Dr Suresh said the only way to reduce the possibility of fungal infection is to administer right doses of steroids. “The patients, even after recovery, should follow up with doctors. It is also important to maintain hygiene after getting discharged from hospitals,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/surge-in-mucormycosis-cases-maharashtra-sets-up-task-force-101620847547755.html
13-05-2021||Other||Minister Ashu reviews arrangements at Jawaddi Covid centre in Ludhiana||Punjab food, civil supplies and consumer affairs minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu and Ludhiana MP Ravneet Singh Bittu on Wednesday visited the newly set up 50-bed Covid care centre at Jawaddi community health centre to take stock of the arrangements.The staff at the centre apprised the minister and MP of the facilities being provided to Covid patients. They also interacted with doctors, nursing staff and others and lauded them for their selfless service to humanity in this hour of crisis.They said the district administration and officials were working tirelessly to augment health infrastructure to deal with the spike in virus cases. They added that 50 beds with oxygen support have been set up at this level-II Covid treatment centre.Appealing to the people not to be complacent about Covid guidelines, the cabinet minister said, “We must strictly adhere to Covid appropriate behaviour as the first line of defence against the infectious disease.”Ashu said there is no dearth of oxygen, Remdesivir and other vital drugs and would not tolerate hoarding.Stating that there was no need to panic, MP Bittu said the Punjab government was better prepared to deal with the pandemic and pulling out all stops to tackle the second wave.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/minister-ashu-reviews-arrangements-at-jawaddi-covid-centre-in-ludhiana-101620847547307.html
13-05-2021||Other||Ludhiana admn salutes nurses for exemplary service amid Covid pandemic||On International Nurses Day, the district administration expressed gratitude towards the frontline health staff who have been working round the clock, putting their lives at risk and taking care of millions of patients suffering from Covid-19.Deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma and doctors from top medical institutions of Ludhiana on Wednesday saluted their indomitable and undying spirit in the war against the contagion on the occasion.In a video message to all nurses working at the forefront, the DC said that they have risked their lives to save others from the scourge of this infectious disease by putting extraordinary efforts.At Ludhiana civil hospital, Dr Hitinder Kaur, nodal officer of Covid unit, and senior medical officer (SMO) Dr Amarjit Kaur appreciated the efforts of the nursing staff, especially those on Covid duty. “They are putting their lives at risk to serve humanity. Many of them don’t even get to see their families for days. The staff at mother and child hospital and those working in the emergency department are doing a commendable job,” said the nodal officer.Secretary of Dayanand Medical College and Hospital managing society, Prem Kumar Gupta acknowledged the whole-hearted cooperation and dedication of the nursing staff in treating patients amid the second wave crisis.At Hero DMC Heart Institute, a felicitation programme was held to mark the occasion. Vice-principal and chief cardiologist Dr GS Wander along with medical superintendent Dr Bishav Mohan and other faculty members said nurses have critical roles and responsibilities and will continue to be on the frontline of patient care.Prof Pennamma Ranadive, principal of College of Nursing, Christian Medical College and Hospital, said that the nurses are at the centre of our health system and this pandemic has shown that they are playing an important role in keeping people healthy.Every year, International Nurses Day, which commemorates the birthday of Florence Nightingale, the first “professional nurse” is observed on May 12. The theme of this year is “Nurses: A voice to lead - A vision for future healthcare”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-admn-salutes-nurses-for-exemplary-service-amid-covid-pandemic-101620847486720.html
13-05-2021||Other||AFMEC starts 350-bedded Covid hospital in Agra||The Agra Footwear Manufacturers and Exporters Council (AFMEC) led by president Pooran Dawar extended their support to health authorities and started operating a 350-bedded Covid hospital within 15 days in the outskirts of the Agra district. The district magistrate of Agra, Prabhu N Singh extended full support to the hospital which started functioning on Wednesday. “The 350-bedded hospital is the outcome of the cooperation extended by various government departments and encouragement by the district magistrate Prabhu N Singh. The municipal commissioner Nikhil Tikaram Funde, managing director of DVVNL Sudhir Kumar Verma, chief medical officer Dr RC Pandey extended full support making the idea of the Covid hospital a reality,” stated Puran Dawar, the president of Agra Footwear Manufacturers and Exporters Council (AFMEC). “It took 15 days to make the hospital operational at the trade centre of AFMEC at Seengna on Agra Mathura road about 20 kilometres from Agra city,” said Dawar. “This hospital would serve as the ideal model of public private partnership (PPP) and district administration will provide one and half dozen doctors to serve the patients admitted here,” informed district magistrate Prabhu N Singh. “Additional chief medical officer (ACMO) and deputy CMO would be responsible and Dr Jitendra Lavania from the health department has been named as nodal officer. The hospital would work as L-1 and L Plus category hospital. In near future, the facilities would be upgraded to the L-2 category for serious problems,” informed Dawar. “Sixty beds of the hospital will have oxygen line connection, oxygen concentrator at 200 beds and 15 beds in the ICU. The hospital would be connected to Covid Command Center and the helpline number of the hospital would be 9557597705,” he said. “A proper diet chart has been prepared including breakfast, lunch and dinner beside fruits, juices, tea/coffee etc. Yoga and meditation for one hour have been included for the total well being of patients and spiritual music would be played at the hospital,” said Dawar. “The need of hospital was felt given the sharp surge in Covid cases and we as an organisation at AFMEC believed that all cannot be left on government in such times of pandemic and various social and industrial organisations will have to join hands with the government, administration and doctors to serve those in need and as such we hope that this Covid hospital will serve the purpose,” stated Pooran Dawar at a press conference held at the hospital. The office-bearers of AFMEC including Rubi Sehgal, Captain AS Rana members Vijay Nijhawan, Chandra Mohan Sachdeva, Aniruddh Tiwari besides others were present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/afmec-starts-350-bedded-covid-hospital-in-agra-101620847005535.html
13-05-2021||Other||82-yr-old patient goes missing from Covid centre, dies in another centre||An 82-year-old patient undergoing treatment at a Covid care centre, in Varun Industrial Estate has reportedly gone missing. On Wednesday, three weeks after the incident, a relative approached the police and filed a missing complaint with the Waliv police, only to find out he had died in another centre.Ramchandra Das stays alone in Vasai. Das along with his distant relative was admitted to a Covid hospital on April 22. On May 5, his relatives were informed about his discharge. However, after his relatives reached the centre to take him back home, he was found missing.“Das’s condition worsened on April 25 so the medical staff shifted him to the Tulinj Civic hospital, but he died on April 26,” said confirmed Satish Lokhande,Commissioner,VVMC. “As the body was unclaimed and the deceased was Covid-19 positive, we cremated him at the civic crematorium and the staff took photos of the dead body of Das. As soon as I got the information,I ordered the hospital to check the CCTV footage and we found Das being moved to the Tulinj civic hospital.”According to sources, while shifting from Varun centre no transfer papers were made, which left the relatives confused. “I have ordered Kishore Gawas,Deputy Commissioner to conduct a detailed enquiry and take punitive action against those found guilty,” said Lokhande.Gorachand Mukherjee, a relative who admitted Das, said, “I questioned the medical staff and searched the hospital, where around 600 patients undergoing treatment for the virus but did not find my uncle.”“On May 11, I complained to the commissioner of Vasai civic body and am still awaiting a reply. It is shocking how a senior citizen can go missing from the centre. The hospital even did not bother me to revert or update me about my uncle’s treatment. I have demanded to hand over the CCTV footages,” Mukherjee said.Kishore Gawas, deputy commissioner, Vasai civic body said, “This is a serious matter. I will take action against the staff for negligence and will also question the doctors attending to the missing patient.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/82yrold-patient-goes-missing-from-covid-centre-dies-in-another-centre-101620846945555.html
13-05-2021||Lucknow||All Uttar Pradesh schools up to class 12 closed till May 20||All schools up to class 12 will remain closed till May 20, stated Kumar Raghvendra Singh, special secretary of UP government in his order dated May 10. The state government also announced that there will be no online classes during this period. He said the decision was taken due to the surge in Covid-19 cases. Singh said during this period, no student or teacher will come to school while the teachers and other employees may continue to work from home. In compliance with this order, district Inspector of schools, Lucknow, Mukesh Kumar Singh issued an order asking managers and school principals not to violate state government order failing which action will be initiated against the institution. There are a few private schools that are harassing teachers to come to school and forcing students to attend online classes. Some private schools have also asked the parents to pay fees for their wards else they will cancel their children’s admission to the school.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/all-uttar-pradesh-schools-up-to-class-12-closed-till-may-20-101620846826071.html
13-05-2021||Chandigarh||Ensure PGIMER functions smoothly, efficiently: HC||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Wednesday exhorted both the states of Haryana and Punjab, and the union territory of Chandigarh, to ensure that the functioning of the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) remains efficient and smooth.The remarks from the high court came in the backdrop of Punjab refusing oxygen supply to the hospital, and Chandigarh and PGIMER indulging in a verbal duel, last week.“..we may add here that all the states being aware of the critical care PGIMER, Chandigarh, is providing, keeping in view its advanced medical expertise, they may cooperate in every respect in order to ensure that its functioning remains smooth and efficient,” the high court observed during the resumed hearing of a suo motu plea in which the court is seized of Covid management issue in the two states and Chandigarh.As the hearing resumed amicus curiae, the issue of scarcity of oxygen was flagged, that there was a need for more ventilators at Government Multi-Specialty Hospital (GMSH-16), which had only six functional, the court was told.The UT administration had told the court that a common command centre had been established to fight Covid-19 in the tricity for better coordination. The court was also apprised that the Centre had been requested to grant 5 metric tonnes of liquid oxygen for PGIMER, which would be processed expeditiously.HC has now directed that the Centre may examine the possibility of providing more ventilators to GMSH-16, adding that the facility is centrally-located and is approached first in an emergency.As regards the need for supporting staff, the issue may be examined by the health secretary, the court said. The court also emphasised on the need to check exorbitant rates being charged by private ambulance service providers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ensure-pgimer-functions-smoothly-efficiently-hc-101620846766174.html
13-05-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC irked at Shiv Sena minister for gathering at inauguration||Expressing displeasure at Shiv Sena leader and cabinet minister Sandipan Bhumre’s participation in the inauguration of a development project in Paithan constituency, Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court (HC) on Wednesday said it was compelled to direct politicians and ministers to not conduct ceremonies and functions including inauguration until lockdown restrictions were eased.The division bench of justice Ravindra Ghuge and justice Bhalchandra Debadwar was hearing a suo motu public interest litigation (PIL), based on news reports about shortage of medical oxygen supply, black marketing of Remdesivir, and other issues pertaining to Covid-19 faced by the general public.During the course of hearing, the bench was informed by an intervenor about a news report wherein the Sena leader was seen inaugurating a development project in his constituency Paithan. The court noted, “While news reports said chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has appealed to politicians not to organise such events, it is still happening….even the leader/minister is a super spreader...There seems to be no action. What is this politicians-police nexus?” In its order, the bench noted, “We are pained to note that the minister was physically holding ceremonies in his constituency. The newspaper also states the minister had violated diktats of the chief minister, who had asked his own ministers and leaders not to hold ceremonies physically.”“We would refrain from drawing conclusions at this stage, but we cannot turn a blind eye to the fact that the minister gave consent to these functions and has physically attended them, and photographs indicated that most of the time the mask was on his chin or did not even wear a mask at times,” observed the bench. Adding that everyone needed to discipline themselves, the court said, “We all should obey law and lockdown restrictions. None of these orders or restrictions is being followed by these politicians.” Suggesting that such events could be held virtually, the bench noted, “Do we not realise that citizens gather in large numbers when people’s representatives make physical appearance for the inauguration ceremony? Is it that lockdown restrictions and orders passed by court in the interest of public health are meant only for the poor while politicians are above law? The bench also noted that the case lodged in light of the event excluded the minister from the list of accused. The bench will hear the suo motu PIL and address the other issues related to Covid-19 management on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-irked-at-shiv-sena-minister-for-gathering-at-inauguration-101620846527341.html
13-05-2021||Mumbai||Most schools conducted WhatsApp-based assessments for Class 8 to 10: Survey||Majority of the schools in Maharashtra have conducted assessments for Class 8 to Class 10 on WhatsApp, data shared by the state education department has revealed. The second-most widely used method of conducting assessments was online tests, as per the survey findings.Schools that used WhatAapp-based assessments either used a set of questions pre-set by them which were sent to students through a link on the social messaging app or asked students to answer questions on the app either in the text format or by sending scanned images of solved papers. The Maharashtra State Council of Educational Research and Training (MSCERT) had asked schools across the 36 districts in the state to report on the various methods used throughout the pandemic period to assess students of higher grades. The survey was based on figures that schools reported themselves with the help of the portal created by the education department. Schools were asked as to which method/s they used to assess students while schools remained shut all of last year due to the Covid-19 pandemic and the resultant lockdown. The methods included WhatsApp-based assessments, online tests, online sessions, offline tests, home visits, with the help of workbooks and other means. Schools could record one or more than one method used by them. A total of 12,931 schools reported their assessment methods, of which 12,298 said they used WhatsApp-based assessment. In Mumbai, too, the most popular format remained WhatsApp-based assessments with 731 schools using the method.Schools in several parts of the state took offline sessions between November and April as the government permitted reopening of schools in places where Covid-19 cases were low or non-existent. The survey revealed that 9,930 schools conducted offline assessments of students. Similarly, around 7,352 conducted assessments through home visits.While the data does not give the full picture, as only about 50% of the total schools in the state provided their input, it is now being studied as a representative sample by officials to gauge the formula for internal assessments for Class 10 students. With the cancellation of SSC exams, the education department is now mulling over options to mark around 1.7 million students in the state. Teachers, however, said the department will have to be careful while considering WhatsApp-based assessments. “We do not know the validity of these assignments because there is no consistent format. Achieving equivalence will be a challenge,” said a teacher from a suburban school.BOX: MaharashtraTotal schools surveyed: 12,931WhatsApp assessments 12,298Online test 9,758Online session 8,401Offline test 9,930House visit test 7,352Workbook 8,402Other 3,643MumbaiTotal schools surveyed: 800WhatsApp assessments 749Online test 731Online session 724Offline test 614House visit test 325Workbook 591Other 402||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/most-schools-conducted-whatsapp-based-assessments-for-class-8-to-10-survey-101620846526161.html
13-05-2021||Mumbai||Covid-19 hit aviation sector hard, domestic passenger footfall at lowest in decade||The coronavirus pandemic has pushed the domestic passenger traffic across the country to a decadal low, even as daily flights from Mumbai are currently down to numbers seen during the first wave in May and June 2020. Domestic traffic in the financial year ending March 2021 was 53.4 million passengers, the lowest since 2010-11 when domestic air operators flew 53.8 million passengers on national routes. “We were seeing 650 flight movements until April as the traffic had started to pick in both domestic and international sectors. However, due to the sudden rise in Covid-19 cases in the country we have gone back to May-June’s traffic last year and are handling just around 200-250 flights daily,” a Mumbai airport official said, on condition of anonymity. By comparison, the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International airport Mumbai handled an average 950 daily flights even as recently as 2019 before the pandemic hit. The domestic traffic in 2019-20 was 274.50 million, as per data made available by rating agency ICRA. The sector was showing signs of recovery as airlines clocked around 60-70% seat occupancy by the end of 2020, after all flights were stopped in March at the start of the pandemic, and domestic flights were allowed to resume only after two months. However, figures provided by the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) show that domestic traffic in February 2021 registered a mere 1% growth over January, with the capacity (number of flights deployed by the airlines) static at 71% in both months. In April, domestic air traffic declined by 29% from March, while there was a 15% fall in capacity between the two months. “The first half of this fiscal will be a washout. Till there is a very aggressive focus on vaccination, job losses are inevitable as demand is frozen with nearly 400 plus aircraft on ground in the first quarter,” said Kapil Kaul, chief executive officer of Centre for Asia Pacific Aviation (CAPA), India, an aviation advisory and research think tank. Part of the reason for the depressed numbers is the continued ban on international flights, which began in March last year and was recently extended to May 31. However, starting April 2020, cargo and DGCA approved flights began to take off. Nevertheless, international traffic has declined by over 90% due to the absence of regular overseas flights. India made bilateral air bubble arrangements with 28 countries, although recently some countries like Hong Kong and Australia announced restrictions on flights to India after a surge in cases was reported from here. Maharashtra’s case trajectory began to register a surge starting February, and by March-end, it contributed to as much as 60% of the country’s caseload and continued to remain the most affected state in the country till April-end, Union health ministry figures pointed out. When flights were allowed again on May 24, the average load factor (the total seat occupied in an aircraft) was 5%, which gradually increased to 60% -70% by October-November. This year too, passengers are wary of flying, which has forced airlines to cancel flights across the country: most airlines have dropped pre-March schedules by almost 40%-50%. SALARY CUTS, JOB LOSSES “Pre-Covid we were on average flying around 70-80 hours per month which came down to zero for a brief moment and then reached about 50 hours around July to September last year. We have not reached the same hours as pre-Covid till now,” said one pilot from Indigo airlines, requesting not to be named. The pilot, with about eight years of experience with three airlines, said that there were two main reasons for reduction in hours: fewer passengers leading to cancellation of flights and a high number of pilots and crew getting infected with Covid-19. This pilot also contracted the disease last month. “Airlines fear that people will neither travel for leisure nor for meetings, incentives, conferences and exhibitions in 2021. They believe that new virus strains, quarantine rules prevalent in states across the country and other factors will have an impact on the industry. The most important quarter for the domestic market is the first quarter, and in 2021, this seems to be a wash out already. But it’s better than last year where operations were shut for two straight months,” said Praveen Iyer, a former senior executive from Jet Airways. The current fiscal will witness a loss, he said. “All airlines except Indigo will struggle to manage their cash position. As far as employees are concerned, the worst is over. Lay-offs are doubtful, but salary (including incentives/ allowances) cuts that are already in effect may continue,” Iyer said. With deeper pockets than its competitors, Indigo has retained most of its pilots even though there was a cut of around 10% in each department. In May last year, the company made a salary cut of 15% and then there were 10 days per month without pay till November which took the proportion of the cut to almost 45%. However, in November, the company stopped sending its personnel on 10 days a month without pay but increased the salary cut to 28% which remains in force till this day. SpiceJet air crew members floated an online petition a day after the low-cost carrier slashed salaries up to 50% in April for all employees. In the petition, the signatories claimed that many were also underpaid as they worked through the pandemic. Earlier this month, the CEO of GoAir wrote to the employees stating that the plan to restructure their pay was on hold due to the surge in cases, which has “impacted overall operations and reduced flying capacity,” a report in the Hindu BusinessLine newspaper stated. However, experts said that if the current situation persists, more job losses are imminent in the aviation industry. “Most of us had restarted recruitment with the improvement seen in the last four months,” said Murali Ramachandran, chief executive officer of Celebi Aviation Holding, India, a ground handling agency. “It is (job losses) already happening and will continue to happen for the next several months, because it’ll take a while for air travel to come back again. But again, just like the last time, the stronger airlines continue to take a very different approach to their employees compared to the less efficient airlines and I expect to see that differentiation to continue,” a former top airline executive, who has worked for both international and domestic airlines, said. RECOVERY TARGETS “We don’t have uniform rules related to international resumption beyond bubbles as yet and it may take longer to bring it into place,” Kaul said. International traffic is expected to be back to pre-Covid times by 2023-24, he said. Other experts Hindustan Times spoke to also proffered a similar timeframe for recovery: the second half of 2022 for domestic traffic, and longer for international travel. The airline executive quoted above explained that this would be so because of the differential vaccination regimes of different countries. “I think we’ll have to get to a situation where there’s a health passport, vaccination certificates, etc and so you’ll see things picking up. But as there’ll be different parts of the world that will be vaccinated at different times, I think it’s going to be until sometime, maybe the second half of 2023 before the globe as such feels more comfortable with international travel.” An executive associated with the Association of Private Airport Operators said that the airports maintain asset intensive infrastructure despite the fall in air traffic. Private airport operators need to pay the Airports Authority of India as part of joint ventures. More than half of their revenue comes from non-aeronautical parts such as landing-parking charges and retail outlets, he explained. “Our fixed costs are almost 80% of the total costs, as far as airports are concerned. So our fixed costs are very high, unlike airlines or any other stakeholders, we are in a very bad situation. They (the airlines) can cut costs, by reducing fleet strength but airports don’t have that kind of adaptability. Now non aero revenue has almost gone to 5% or 10% of the pre Covid levels also because the retail business at airport too is negligible as a result of which the retail outlets are unable to pay rents,” he said. (WITH INPUTS FROM SHARAN POOVANNA)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid19-hit-aviation-sector-hard-domestic-passenger-footfall-at-lowest-in-decade-101620846466657.html
13-05-2021||Mumbai||MAT stays Daya Nayak’s transfer||The Maharashtra Administrative Tribunal (MAT) on Wednesday stayed the transfer of encounter specialist police inspector Daya Nayak, who was shunted out of Juhu unit of the Maharashtra anti-terrorism squad to far-off Gondia district. A bench of MAT member AP Kurhekar stayed the May 6 order primarily in view of “the grave situation prevailing now because of COVID-19 pandemic and the second wave”. Nayak was transferred to caste scrutiny committee, Gondia, considering that Nayak has served 20 years in Mumbai. “Government of Maharashtra by G.R. dated May 10, 2021 has taken conscious decision not to effect any transfer including mid-term or mid-tenure till June 2021 in view of COVID-19 pandemic situation. The said G.R. was issued hardly four days after impugned transfer order,” said MAT while staying the transfer order. “The benefit of this G.R. also can be extended to the Applicant (Nayak) though impugned transfer order was issued four days before the issuance of G.R. in the light of continuing Pandemic situation,” reads the order. Nayak moved MAT through advocate MD Lonkar, challenging the transfer order on various grounds that he was transferred to a different division in contravention of the 2015 rules of divisional allotment for appointment to Group ‘A’ and Group ‘B’ posts. He further pointed out that in 2014 the applicant was transferred from Mumbai to Nagpur, but at the time, the government had accepted his representation in view of threat to his life from underworld and terrorists and he was reposted in Mumbai. “It appears that the then Commissioner of Police has received complaint against the Applicant that he is keeping relation with criminals and also threatened one Mohammed Nabi Khan for withdrawing report lodged against him,” the government pointed out. MAT, however, criticized the action observing that, “Director General of Police dug out report of Commissioner dated December 31, 2013 and solely on the basis of it recommended the transfer of the Applicant. What is striking to note that except this old and stale report of the Commissioner dated December 31, 2013 there is absolutely no fresh material as to what prompted the Director General of Police to transfer the Applicant suddenly after the lapse of more than eight years from the receipt of letter dated December 31, 2013.” said advocate MD Lonkar who appeared for Nayak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/matstays-daya-nayak-s-transfer-101620846465534.html
13-05-2021||Chandigarh||PU students allowed to vacate hostels by May 15||Panjab University has announced that students can vacate hostels by May 15, instead of the earlier May 12 deadline. The decision was taken after hostellers shared that they were unable to get bookings for train and flight tickets so soon, said dean student welfare Sukhvir Kaur. Meanwhile, the mess of Girls Hostel 1, Boys Hostel 6 and Girls Hostel 8 will remain open. Around 25 hostellers returned home on Wednesday. Since the university asked students to vacate hostels on May 9, they had been protesting outside the Administration Block on the campus.The vice-chancellor’s office on campus has been closed till May 16 after Covid-19 cases surfaced in the building that houses the office. The building also has offices of dean research and dean university instruction, which will remain closed on Thursday for sanitisation. An official spokesperson said recently five employees and their family members had tested positive for Covid.V-C’s office closed till May 16The vice-chancellor’s office on campus has been closed till May 16 after Covid-19 cases surfaced in the building that houses the office. The building also has offices of dean research and dean university instruction, which will remain closed on Thursday for sanitisation. An official spokesperson said recently five employees and their family members had tested positive for Covid.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pu-students-allowed-to-vacate-hostels-by-may-15-101620846287785.html
13-05-2021||Other||UP govt says it’s in touch with suppliers for quick delivery of vaccines||LUCKNOW The Uttar Pradesh overnment has opened communication channels with prospective suppliers to ensure quick delivery of Covid-19 vaccines to boost the inoculation drive for the 18-44 years’ age group as well as those above 45 years, the health authorities said.The move comes about a week after the state government floated a global e-tender on May 5 to procure 40 million (four crore) doses of the Covid vaccine.Health and family welfare minister Jai Pratap Singh said the state was going to have a pre-bid qualification meeting with any prospective supplier.“After that, the bids are scheduled for May 21. The companies (those who are interested) would mention the delivery schedule then,” he said. While the state government was running the vaccination drive, supplies were an issue.“We are getting supplies from two Indian companies so far for all age groups. But we foresaw that they will not be able to supply all that is needed. The state could not do statewide vaccination for the 18+ age group. It is going on in 18 districts. That’s why the state decided to go for global tender for 40 million doses,” he added.A health department officer said, “We are in touch with international vaccine manufacturing companies. The companies will have to supply the vaccines to the warehouses set up by the department on schedule. The manufacturers should also have cold chain transportation facility.” The state government had already placed orders for the supply of one crore Covid vaccine doses —50 lakh doses from Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech International Limited that manufactures Covaxin and 50 lakh doses from the Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII) that makes Covishield.Additional chief secretary (health and family welfare) Amit Mohan Prasad said the state government had received 3.50 lakh doses of Covishield from SII and three lakh doses of Covaxin from Bharat Biotech till Sunday. The Uttar Pradesh government has made advance payment to both the Covid vaccine manufacturers. The state will get the required vaccine doses from both the companies soon, he said.Vaccine wastage down The health and family welfare department was working to check the wastage of vaccines, he said, adding that earlier the wastage was 20% in the initial stages. The state government then reviewed and monitored the working of vaccinators and gave fresh training to them to cut the wastage, he added.“Now the vaccine wastage has been brought down to less than 2% for Covishield and less than 3% for Covaxin. Efforts are being made to reduce the wastage further,” he said.Prasad said, till May 11 the state government had given 1,11, 63,988 first doses to people above 45 years and 29,35,660 second doses as well to people in this age group (45+).A total 1,40,99,648 vaccine dose had been given to the people above 45 years. The vaccination for the people between 18 and 44 years was launched on May 1. Till May 11, 2,16,897 beneficiaries between 18 and 44 years received the Covid vaccine jabs, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/up-govt-says-it-s-in-touch-with-suppliers-for-quick-delivery-of-vaccines-101620846106063.html
13-05-2021||Lucknow||Consider giving ₹1 cr to kin of poll officials who died of Covid: HC||The Allahabad high court asked the Uttar Pradesh government to consider giving Rs1 crore to the families of poll officials who succumbed to Covid-19 during the recently concluded panchayat elections and urged the Centre to devise an immunisation plan for the differently abled.A bench comprising justices Siddhartha Varma and Ajit Kumar also expressed unhappiness about reduced testing, asked the state government to institute within 48 hours a three-member pandemic public grievance committee in every district and said suspected Covid-19 deaths should be treated as coronavirus casualties.The bench was hearing a suo motu (on its own) public interest litigation on conditions of quarantine centres and treatment of Covid-19 patients in the state.The four-phase panchayat elections for roughly 800,000 rural body seats was held between April 15 and 29, coinciding with a devastating surge in infections.The high court and health experts blame the elections for driving the disease in the hinterlands and a prominent teachers’ union claimed that 700 staff died on poll duty. The state government has denied the charges and announced a compensation of ₹30 lakh for the kin of the deceased. But the bench said the amount was too low.“To compensate the loss of life of the bread earner of the family and that too because of the deliberate act on the part of the state and state election commission to force them to perform duties in the absence of RT-PCR support, the compensation must be at least to the tune of ₹1,00,00,000. We hope that the state election commission and government will rethink over the amount of the compensation and come back to us on the next date fixed,” the bench said in a written order passed on Tuesday but made public on Wednesday.“It is not a case that somebody volunteered to render his/ her services during election but it was all made obligatory to those assigned with election duty to perform their duties during election even while they showed their reluctance,” the bench added.The judges also expressed concern about the vaccination of differently abled people and asked the Centre how it will inoculate people who cannot go to vaccination centres or cannot register themselves online. The court then asked the state government if it could form guidelines for inoculating these people even in the absence of central norms. The court said a three-member panel in each district will hear grievances of people related to Covid-19 treatment. Each committee will comprise a chief judicial magistrate or a judicial officer, a professor of a medical college and an administrative officer of the rank of additional district magistrate.The court was dissatisfied with the government affidavit as no information regarding the number of ambulances in the state or meals provided to Covid-19 patients in government hospitals were provided.“We want food details with the calories count of each item in respect of the hospitals of all the categories,” it said.The court said deaths of suspected Covid-19 patients shall be treated as Covid mortality for a limited purpose. “Even if it is the case of suspected death of Covid patients for antigen testing, we are of the view that all such cases of death should be taken as Covid deaths and no hospital can be permitted to hold these cases as non-Covid cases so as to reduce number of Covid deaths in that particular hospital,” said the bench.“Government officials and the hospitals cannot be permitted to shirk away from their responsibility in ensuring that the dead body of such deceased persons is disposed of strictly as per the Covid protocol. Nobody is admitted to a hospital unless he has landed himself in a condition where the SPO2 level has gone down, ie, below 94 and, therefore, to take such deaths as non-Covid deaths would be a blunder,” said the bench while asking the government counsel to file an affidavit on this issue.The case will next be heard on May 17.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/consider-giving-rs-1-cr-to-kin-of-poll-officials-who-died-of-covid-hc-101620845515380.html
13-05-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh’s ESIC Hospital is now Covid facility for children||The Chandigarh administration is opening a separate facility for children suffering from Covid-19 at ESIC Hospital in Ram Darbar. The move comes after UT administrator VP Singh Badnore directed the health department to earmark exclusive wards for such “young patients”, who are increasingly testing positive for the new strain of the virus during the second wave.Initially, the paediatric facility will have six beds, both ICU and oxygen, which can be extended to up to 16 if needed, said officials.Dr Amandeep Kang, director of health services, Chandigarh, said the need for an exclusive paediatric ward was felt as the two new facilities at Panjab University and the Sector 45 civil hospital are admitting mostly adult patients. “ESIC Hospital has trained paediatricians and anaesthetists. Initially, it has been earmarked for children, but if the need arises, adult patients can also be admitted,” she said.Chandigarh has only one paediatric Covid facility at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research. It has 32 beds, which include nine ICU beds, and has reached 80% occupancy.“The overall infection numbers are very high in the second wave, and consequently the number of affected children has also gone up. The treatment outcome is good among them and mortality due to Covid is uncommon,” said Jayashree Muralidharan, professor of paediatrics at the PGIMER.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhs-esic-hospital-is-now-covid-facility-for-children-101620845746429.html
13-05-2021||Mumbai||Several lives could have been saved by door-to-door Covid vaccination: Bombay HC||Expressing anguish at the Central government for not abiding by its earlier direction to consider allowing door-to-door vaccination, the Bombay high court (HC) on Wednesday observed that had such policy been implemented, it would have saved lives of several senior citizens and specially-abled persons who were unable to visit vaccination centres.The court also asked the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) to apprise it on its proposed initiative to have ward-wise vaccination camps to reach out to a larger population in Mumbai and sought to know if vaccination officials would visit homes and administer jabs to eligible persons. After being informed that persons without any type of identity card could register on the Co-WIN website for getting the vaccination, the court sought to know whether beggars, homeless and transgenders could avail of the facility. The court asked Mumbai, Pune and other civic authorities to inform it about measures undertaken by them to vaccinate such persons and also the number of such beneficiaries.The division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni was hearing the public interest litigation (PIL) filed by lawyers Dhruti Kapadia and Kunal Tiwari, seeking directions to the Centre, the Maharashtra government and the BMC to provide door-to-door vaccination facility for people over 75 years of age, the specially-abled and the bed-ridden. On April 22, noting that senior citizens could not be left to die and hence should be given priority while administering vaccines, the HC had directed the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW) to reconsider its decision of not having door-to-door vaccination and to find a via media solution to address the issue. On Wednesday, the court asked additional solicitor general Anil Singh as to why its earlier directions were not complied, “When we had passed the reasoned order on April 22, your government should have considered either way. Why wait till filing of an affidavit in Supreme Court in suo motu PIL?” While referring to photographs in local newspapers wherein senior citizens in wheelchairs were seen waiting in queues at vaccination centres the bench said, “If we had door-door vaccination, so many of our prominent citizens across fields, who were not in good health could have saved them. Definitely, something could have been done. Particularly considering some of the recent deaths.” The chief justice then said that in the meeting of senior administrative judges with BMC commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal on Tuesday, they were assured that by May 17, BMC would have vaccination camps across all its wards in Mumbai and said, “Once such camps are started, we will have to see whether it would be possible for the BMC to send vaccination officials to the residences of bedridden persons to administer the jabs. This is the only way we can do it.” The bench sought response from the Centre and civic bodies on its queries and posted the further hearing to May 19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/several-lives-could-have-been-saved-by-door-to-door-covid-vaccination-bombay-hc-101620845685486.html
13-05-2021||Mumbai||Fill up vacant posts of medical officers in Maharashtra prisons, vaccinate inmates: HC to State||The Bombay high court (HC) on Wednesday directed the state government to fill up one-third of vacant posts of medical officers and other medical staff in jail hospitals across Maharashtra and ordered the prison authorities to abide by the new standard operating procedures (SOPs) of the high powered committee (HPC) to decongest jails in light of the second Covid wave.The court asked the prison authorities to follow SOPs of the Central government for vaccinating prison inmates, including those not having Aadhar cards.A division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni, while hearing the suo motu (on its own) public interest litigation (PIL) based on the report published in Hindustan Times which highlighted the rise in Covid-19 cases in two months from 47 to 188 in the prisons in Maharashtra, was informed that as per its directions in a previous hearing the prison authorities had filed a reply. The reply stated that there were 35,124 inmates lodged in various jails across Maharashtra and there was a shortage of medical officers. During the previous hearing on April 29, the court had observed that Taloja Central prison had only three Ayurveda doctors and no Class I medical officers or other staff as required under Prison Rules, 2015. Expressing concern over the death of two prisoners and a jail staff due to Covid-19, the bench had questioned the authorities on the availability of qualified medical staff in prison hospitals and asked the Centre and the state if prison inmates needed to have Aadhaar cards before they get vaccinated.On Wednesday, the court noted that as per the state’s reply, nearly one-third posts of medical officers across jails in Maharashtra were lying vacant and observed that while all prisons should have requisite and able medical staff, the state’s reply was silent on the issue. The bench further noted, “We are not asking you to increase the number of sanctioned posts. At least fill up the existing posts. Already one year of the pandemic is over and you cannot depend on already burdened state-run hospitals. All jails must have at least sanctioned posts of medical staff filled.” The court further noted that apart from Taloja jail, prisons at Kolhapur, Amravati, Nagpur, Mumbai Central and Yerawada (Pune) also did not have any Class 1 medical officers.On the issue of vaccinating prison staff and inmates, Professor Vijay Raghavan, member of Centre for Criminology and Justice, Tata Institute of Social Sciences (TISS), who is assisting the court in the suo motu PIL submitted that vaccination should be done in camp mode inside prisons like other states had done rather than taking the inmates to civil hospitals. He also said that HIV positive prisoners or pregnant women, patients of Tuberculosis could be considered by the HPC for release.The prison authorities informed the court that jail staff were considered frontline workers and out of 3,818 prison staff members across 46 jails, 3,252 were vaccinated. It also said that 10,161 inmates above 18 years of age had Aadhar cards. The state and central government further informed the bench that on May 6, the union government had issued SOPs allowing registration of groups of people who did not possess any photo ID card or Aadhar cards on Co-WIN portal. Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh for the Centre said that as per these SOPs, prison inmates could be vaccinated despite not having Aadhar cards by registering through the Co-WIN portal. Directing the state government to reply to its queries, HC posted the further hearing to May 19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/fill-up-vacant-posts-of-medical-officers-in-maharashtra-prisons-vaccinate-inmates-hc-to-state-101620845625365.html
13-05-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Specially abled, 60+ can walk in for second dose of Covishield||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Wednesday issued revised guidelines for vaccination, allowing walk-ins for those above 60 years of age and specially abled for their second dose of Covishield. In case of the second dose of Covaxin, anyone above the age of 45 can walk in on coming Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday (May 17-19). The process is being looked at as a pilot project, and will continue if the response is good. Vaccination between Thursday and Saturday will be strictly on the basis of appointments on Co-WIN portal, and the drive will remain shut on Sundays, said the BMC in its revised vaccination guidelines on Wednesday. This order will come into force from May 17.This comes in the backdrop of concerns over delay in the second shot discussed in a meeting between Mumbai suburbs guardian minister Aaditya Thackeray, municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal, and Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner in charge of BMC’s public health department, on Tuesday. Last Thursday, the BMC had ruled that vaccination for all age groups in the city will be done only on the basis of appointments via Co-WIN portal. This was done in the backdrop of overcrowding reported across vaccination centres in the city. A stampede-like situation was also reported at the Bandra-Kurla Complex (BKC) jumbo vaccination centre.Chahal, in the circular, said that every vaccination centre will decide their vaccine administration timing, depending on the availability of doses. The circular also says that every booth in a particular vaccination centre should be at least allotted 100 doses each.Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner, said, “For now, for three days, we will allow walk-ins for those who are due to get their second dose. This means, anyone above the age of 45+ can walk in for the second dose of Covaxin and anyone above 60 years of age or specially abled can walk in for Covishield’s second dose. If the response is good next week, this arrangement will be continued.” However, vaccination for the 45+ age group will continue on the basis of appointments. Kakani added, “During this, slots for the first dose will not be available. Also, from Thursday, the vaccination drive for 18-44 years will be halted.” Meanwhile, Aaditya Thackeray tweeted on Wednesday: “For ONLY all those due for the second dose, age group 60 and above or differently abled, the BMC has reserved Monday, Tuesday Wednesday (17th, 18th, 19th May) walk-in vaccination at all our centres. Looking at the limited supply of vaccines, it is crucial that we complete the prescribed second shot in the coming week for those who have gone past the prescribed gap between 2 vaccines.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-specially-abled-60-can-walk-in-for-second-dose-of-covishield-101620845566842.html
13-05-2021||Chandigarh||Covid claims 29 more lives in Chandigarh tricity||The number of deaths due to Covid-19 piled up to 308 this month, with 29 more people succumbing to the virus in the tricity on Wednesday. It was the third-highest single-day spike in deaths, after 38 logged on May 5 and 30 on May 9.At eight, Panchkula registered its record number of casualties in a day, while Chandigarh equalled its all-time high of 14, and Mohali reported seven deaths.In terms of new cases, the 2,000 figure was breached for the seventeenth time in three weeks, as 2,082 people tested positive. It was after five days that the figure dropped below 2,200. The record was set on May 10 with 2,612 cases.Chandigarh recorded 776 cases, followed by 713 in Mohali and 593 in Panchkula.For Mohali district, it was a significant dip in numbers, as it had reported 1,382 cases on May 10 and a record 17 deaths twice on May 5 and 9.The district’s total has climbed to 57,872 cases and 722 deaths, with 12,922 cases still active. With 299 patients being discharged, the number of those recovered has reached 44,228 though the recovery rate is a lowly 79%. In Panchkula district, a Pinjore man, aged 24, was among those dead. Besides him, a 53-year-old woman from Sector 20 and 53-year-old man from Sector 4 had no comorbidity. A 49-year-old woman from Garhi Kotaha was suffering from diabetes and hypertension, and so were three senior citizens, aged 60, 70, 77 and 82, who succumbed on Wednesday, making it a record single-day number that took the death toll to 267.The district has reported 26,362 cases so far, of which 23,344 have been cured and 2,751 are active. The recovery rate stands at nearly 89%, highest in the tricity.Meanwhile, Chandigarh for the second consecutive day reported more recoveries than cases. With 859 patients being discharged, the total has reached 43,506 and recovery rate stands at 81%.As many as 52,633 people have tested positive in the UT so far, of whom 599 have died and 8,528 are yet to be cured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-claims-29-more-lives-in-chandigarh-tricity-101620845506696.html
13-05-2021||Mumbai||Less than 50,000 cases recorded in Maharashtra for fourth day||Maharashtra is witnessing a gradual decline in the number of new Covid-19 cases per day as it recorded less than 50,000 new cases for the fourth consecutive day.On Wednesday, the state recorded 46,781 new cases, along with 816 deaths. The total number of Covid-19 cases in the state has now reached 5,226,710. There are currently 546,129 active patients across the state of which Pune tops with 103,067 patients followed by Nagpur with 49,345 active patients. The death toll has now reached 78,007 with Mumbai leading with 13,972 deaths, followed by Pune with 10,176 people.There were a total of 252,167 tests conducted on Wednesday, while 58,805 patients have been recovered. The total number of deaths has now reached 78,007, with 816 succumbing to the virus on Wednesday.The number of cases started declining below 50,000 from Sunday onwards as it recorded 48,401 new cases followed by Monday and Tuesday with 37,236 and 40,956 new cases, respectively.State health minister Rajesh Tope said that situation in the state is stabilising. “The positivity rate of the virus is coming down. In addition, the growth rate is on the decline at 0.8%, as compared to the national average of 1.4%. We are ranked in the 30th position in terms of the growth rate of Covid-19,” said Tope.Tope said that in 15 districts of Maharashtra, the Covid-19 has slowed down, showing marked improvement.Dr Jeevan Jain, a physician from Lalbaug, who has treated over 15,000 Covid-19 patients, said the lockdown played a crucial role in the decline of the virus. “The lockdown has slowed down the virulence and decreased the potency of the virus significantly. The lockdown needs to be extended so that its gains are not lost,” said Jain.The majority of the ministers in the state cabinet have demanded the extension and have authorised chief minister Uddhav Thackeray to decide on this.Given the surge in Covid-19 cases, a strict lockdown was imposed in Nashik for 10 days. The police department stationed themselves at 40 different junctions penalising people, who stepped out without a valid reason. Similarly in Pune, the action was taken against 23,000 violators in the last five days for breaking Covid-19 rules.Meanwhile, the Union minister Nitin Gadkari donated 650 ventilators and 300 oxygen concentrators to both government and private hospitals in Vidarbha. The Vanchit Bahujan Aghadi (VBA) celebrated the birthday of their chief Prakash Ambedkar by distributing fruits to the orphanages, after maintaining all Covid-19 protocols.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/less-than-50-000-cases-recorded-in-maharashtra-for-fourth-day-101620845505353.html
13-05-2021||Mumbai||Neonatal ICUs, creches for kids of Covid positive parents on Mumbai civic body’s cards||Alongside ramping up infrastructure in light of the recent projection of more cases in children and infants, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has also decided to set up creches for children whose parents are Covid-19 positive, especially, if such children do not have anyone to take care of them during their parents’ quarantine period. All paediatric wards for Covid-19 positive children are likely to have an adjoining and safe stay area for mothers of ailing children, especially in the case of infants who have tested positive for Covid-19. This was discussed in a meeting between Mumbai suburbs’ guardian minister Aaditya Thackeray, municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal, and additional municipal commissioner in charge of the civic public health department, Suresh Kakani, on Tuesday. Thackeray later said, “We cannot expect an infant or a very young child who has tested positive for Covid-19 to stay away from its mother. But we also need to make sure the mother is safe from Covid-19. So we will have to design an area that meets both our requirements, alongside paediatric Covid wards.” “This works the other way round as well,” Thackeray added. In cases where both parents of young children have tested positive for Covid-19 and will be institutionally quarantined, but the child has tested negative, BMC will make arrangements for the children to be looked after if they don’t have family members to take care of them. Hindustan Times reported last week, that BMC will add at least 500 beds in dedicated Covid care centres across the city, for children and infants afflicted with Covid. The existing six Jumbo facilities have a capacity of accommodating 250 more beds each. Moreover, the four new Jumbo facilities coming up at Mahalaxmi, Sion, Malad, and Kanjurmarg will have pediatric Covid wards. However, Thackeray said, “BMC will also focus on adding more neonatal ICU and ventilator beds.”Experts have noticed the trend of a rising number of Covid cases in children below 10 years of age, and in infants over the past few months. Om Shrivastav, who is a part of the Maharashtra government’s covid task force said, “Between the first and second wave, we have seen an increase in the number of cases in children below 10 years and infants. We can assume this trend may continue, and we don’t want to be caught off guard, or start making preparations after the crisis has hit us. So we must keep infrastructure ready.” The state government is also forming a pediatric task force of experts for the same. Meanwhile, Mumbai on Wednesday reported 2,104 Covid-19 cases and 66 deaths, taking the tally to 681,233 and the toll to 13,972. There are 36,595 active cases in the city at present. On Tuesday, Mumbai conducted 33,499 tests, which have shown Wednesday’s cases. The daily positivity rate is 6.2% on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/neonatal-icus-creches-for-kids-of-covid-positive-parents-on-mumbai-civic-body-s-cards-101620845446663.html
13-05-2021||Other||UP govt asks all DMs to ensure oxygen supply to home isolation patients in need||The state government on Wednesday issued an order for oxygen supply to Covid-19 positive patients staying in home isolation and needing the medical gas.Principal secretary (Food Safety and Drug Administration) Anita Singh sent a letter to all the divisional commissioners and district magistrates, directing them to ensure oxygen supply to the people whose sample test report is positive or are presumptive Covid patients. A patient whose sample test report is not positive, but the blood sample, X-ray and CT scan report show Covid infection, will also get oxygen supply in home isolation, she said.Covid positive people will have to submit a signed prescription of a medical practitioner emphasising that the patient needs oxygen during home isolation. The district administration officials will ensure that oxygen cylinder was made available to the needy patient, she said.The DMs will also ensure that oxygen cylinder was not given to patients who are admitted in a Covid hospital. To streamline the supply of oxygen cylinder to patients, the district administration will fix more than one supply spot in each district. The officers will obtain a copy of the Aadhaar card of the patient, the family member who collects the oxygen cylinder and the mobile phone number. Each oxygen cylinder given for home isolation will have a mark.On May 10, there was a requirement of 56 MT (metric tonnes) oxygen for patients in home isolation in the state, according to a report submitted by the DMs of all the 75 districts of UP.“If there is an increase or fall in the demand, the DMs will inform the control room established in the state home department for the online monitoring of oxygen supply across the state,” Singh said.In a press statement, the state home department said in the last 24 hours, 1014.53 MT metric tonnes) oxygen was supplied to hospitals and oxygen refill centres across the state.Additional chief secretary (Home) Awanish Kumar Awasthi monitored the supply of oxygen from the control room.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/up-govt-asks-all-dms-to-ensure-oxygen-supply-to-home-isolation-patients-in-need-101620845445955.html
13-05-2021||Mumbai||Lockdown in Maharashtra expected may extend by two weeks, all ministers in favour of the same||The ongoing lockdown in Maharashtra is all set to be extended by another fortnight. In the meeting on Wednesday, almost all of the state cabinet ministers demanded two weeks’ extension to the lockdown in the wake of the rise in Covid-19 cases in some of districts. The formal decision on the same is expected to be taken by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray in a day or two.After a partial lockdown from April 5, the state government imposed a complete shutdown from April 22. The state has allowed essential establishments to remain open between 7 and 11am, people to step out only for medical and valid reasons, restricted inter-district travel for valid reasons and brought down attendance in the government offices to 15% during the lockdown which ends at 7am on May 15. The lockdown has helped the administration to arrest the spike in Covid cases. The number of active patients came down to 546,129 on Wednesday from 699,858 on April 22.The decision of the complete lockdown was taken by the state cabinet in the third week of April after the health department projected the active cases to rise to more than 1.1 million by May 1. The state cabinet on Wednesday pressed for the need to extend the ongoing lockdown for another two weeks. “The final decision over the extension will be taken by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray soon. The cabinet ministers are in the favour of an extension of two weeks,” said public health minister Rajesh Tope.Tope said that though the cases in about 15 districts are on the decline the remaining districts have been witnessing the rise in the same. “We have improved on the positivity and growth rate of the cases. With 0.8% growth rate against 1.4% national rate, Maharashtra is in 30th position in the country. The positivity rate and other parameters related to the Covid-19 have improved in the state. Though we cannot claim to have the infection curve completely stabilised, the daily caseload is certainly on the decline,” he said.According to the officials from the relief and rehabilitation department, there would not be any relaxation given from the current restriction during the extension of the lockdown. “There are a lot of sectors who have been demanding for the relaxation in train travel, office attendance, but the chief minister is firm on extending it in the existing form. The decision about imposing the complete lockdown for four weeks was taken by the cabinet last month. It was also decided to declare it in two phases. We expect the gradual unlocking to begin after May 30 or 31,” said the official.The official pointed out that the lockdown has helped the state ease the pressure on the health infrastructure to a great extent.“We have more than 25% beds vacant in the state, with some districts reaching 40%. We have eased the shortage of life-saving drugs like Remdesivir and oxygen through concentrated efforts over the last few weeks. But the vaccination drive is not attaining the desired speed, though we top in the number of people inoculated, amid the shortage of the vaccine. We expect the extension of the lockdown to help at the beginning of the flattening of the infection curve in the next fortnight,” he said.Some of the districts like Buldhana, Kolhapur, Satara, Sangli have already imposed stricter curbs at a local level with permission from the chief secretary of the state. Some of these districts have completely shut down the establishments including essential ones and curtailed the intradistrict public transport as they have been witnessing a continuous rise in the cases.Out of the total active patients, 44.22% or 247165 are in five districts (Pune, Nagpur, Mumbai, Thane and Nashik) while another 20.37% or 113845 are in five more districts (Ahmednagar, Solapur, Satara, Sangli and Chandrapur) as on May 11. 32.92% or 194486 patients out of 590818 active patients, as of May 11, are hospitalised.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/lockdown-in-maharashtra-expected-may-extend-by-two-weeks-all-ministers-in-favour-of-the-same-101620845385374.html
13-05-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai civic body floats global tender for vaccines, restricts China||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Wednesday floated an expression of interest (EOI) to procure 10 million vaccine doses from vaccine manufacturers abroad. The decision was taken by the BMC on Monday to speed up the vaccination process.According to BMC, all clearances (from the Centre) regarding Pfizer, Moderna, Johnson & Johnson vaccine doses will have to be taken by the manufacturers themselves. However, it has barred Chinese vaccine manufacturers from participating in the procurement process by restricting the participation of countries sharing borders with India.In a statement issued on Wednesday, the BMC said, “To supply one crore (10 million) doses of Covid prevention vaccine, BMC has published a Global Expression of Interest (EoI) inviting various companies to submit proposals. This notice has been published today (May 12, 2021) and according to this, EoI are to be submitted to the BMC by 1pm on May 18, 2021. The proposals will be unveiled on the same day, May 18, 2021, at 3pm. If the BMC issues a work order, the entire vaccine will have to be supplied to the concerned companies within three weeks.”This comes two days after chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Monday gave a nod for the BMC to float a global tender. Mumbai suburbs guardian minister Aaditya Thackeray on Monday had tweeted, “Looking at the need for adequate vaccines to ensure that vaccination is swift & efficient, after discussing the issue with CM Uddhav Thackeray ji, as guardian minister of Mumbai, we have asked BMC to explore possibilities of global procurement of vaccines.”Municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal said, “BMC has floated global bid to procure one crore Covid vaccines at the earliest. BMC has resolved to make every possible effort in future and also to acquire sufficient quantity of Covid vaccines to vaccinate all eligible citizens of Mumbai on a war-footing in the next 60-90 days.”P Velrasu, additional municipal commissioner of the BMC said, “We have floated just the expression of interest, and have put a condition that all certification and approvals vaccine manufacturers will need, they will have to get it from the government of India, drug controller. The EoI, for now, is to procure ten million doses, and regarding indemnity issues, we have mentioned that the best international practice will be followed. Ultimately, we all will be bound by conditions of the Central government.”Velrasu also confirmed that BMC has also put a condition that applicants should not belong to countries sharing borders with India, which will restrict the entry of Chinese vaccine manufacturers.Further, considering several vaccines from the western countries require cold storage mandating temperature in minus, the BMC has made it mandatory for manufacturers to arrange for such a facility. The BMC in the EOI document has stated, “BMC has cold storage facilities consisting of walk-in cooler (WIC) 2 in no. with 40 cum capacity each. The temperature of WIC is+20 to +80C. If the covid vaccine requires storage and temperature requirements other than that available with the B, C, the applicant will have to provide the required storage facility for the Covid Vaccine, till the vaccination points. Currently, MCGM has 20 hospitals and 240 vaccination centres.”The document further adds, “The applicant should have their own cold chain transporting system from their manufacturing unit or should have a valid contract with a transporting agent having facilities to transport Covid Vaccines under cold chain norms to the storage facility / any of the hospitals/ vaccination centres within BMC jurisdiction.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-civic-body-floats-global-tender-for-vaccines-restricts-china-101620845325441.html
13-05-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh to roll out vax for 18+ on May 14||The Chandigarh administration will begin the vaccination drive for 18-44 years age group on May 14. There is no facility for walk-in registration, and the beneficiaries will have to book the slot and obtain the time and place of vaccine through the Co-WIN portal, stated an official release on Wednesday. On the first day, 1,000 slots will be opened, said officials.The decision came after the Government of India allotted 33,000 vaccines for the younger age group in Chandigarh. The doses reached the city on Wednesday.The Centre had extended the drive to all adults on May 1. However, amid shortage of vaccines, various states and UTs had to delay the launch. While Panchkula became the first in the tricity to roll it out on May 2, Mohali launched it only for construction workers on May 9.UT adviser Manoj Parida said that in addition to the existing vaccination centres in the government sector, additional sites will be opened in a few schools, exclusively for this age group of beneficiaries. The details of the venues will be intimated individually to the beneficiaries while booking the slot. “Vaccines will be administered in a phased manner to avoid crowding. All necessary arrangements will be made to ensure Covid protocol is strictly followed and doses are administered under proper medical supervision,” said Dr Amandeep Kang, director, health services, Chandigarh.The administration has earlier announced that the vaccine will be provided for free at government centres.Private hospitals are to get the vaccines directly from manufacturers. For example, the Serum Institute of India has allocated 12,000 doses of Covishield to Chaitanya Hospital in Sector 44 for May. “They may also start the vaccination drive on payment basis immediately after the actual receipt of vaccines. They are already registered on the Co-WIN portal and will be able to offer the slots after they receive the doses,” said a UT spokesperson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-to-roll-out-vax-for-18-on-may-14-101620845267721.html
13-05-2021||Other||Civil Hospital in Lucknow gets post-Covid ward, telemedicine facility||LUCKNOW: The Civil hospital has started a post Covid ward and telemedicine services for patients. The post Covid ward is of 14 beds in the ICU, including isolation, while telemedicine service is available for five departments. “Several patients after defeating Covid suffer health issues hence they need post-Covid treatment. We have started a dedicated post-Covid ward for such patients and a telemedicine service which they can avail while remaining at the homes and consult the experts,” said Dr Sc Sundriyal, director of the Covil hospital. Cardiologist Dr Babu Ram Jaiswal is the nodal incharge of the post-Covid ward. “The post-Covid ward will facilitate 24-hours service to patients,” Dr Jaiswal said. A helpline number 9412667503 has also been started. Also, the telemedicine service has been started that runs between 9 am and 3 pm. Helpline number 7307579964 for medicine and psychiatry, 7307585529 surgery and orthopaedic, 7307578336 for skin and ENT, 7307576508 paediatric and chest physician, 7307578297 for gynaecology and dentistry and 0522 4027513 for post-Covid services. The hospitals is also running fever clinic and follow up OPD.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/civil-hospital-in-lucknow-gets-post-covid-ward-telemedicine-facility-101620845265364.html
13-05-2021||Mumbai||Mission Oxygen: Maharashtra govt approves sops for industry||To encourage the private sector to generate liquid medical oxygen as part of its Mission Oxygen plan to increase daily production up to 3,000 metric tonnes (MT) in the state, the state cabinet on Wednesday gave in-principle approval to the sops to the industry. The state is expected to bear a burden of around ₹200 crore towards the incentives. Under its Mission Oxygen, also coined as Swayampurna Maharashtra, the state has set a short-term goal of 2300 MT to be achieved in the next six months. The mission, which is expected to cost the state ₹1,100 crore, will have the participation of private players with the aim of at least one new plant in each of the six divisions. The state is extending sops in terms of waiver in the registration fee, electricity duty, stamp duty and GST. “The waiver in GST will be 150% in backward Marathwada and Vidarbha and 100% for the rest of the state. This will help us in encouraging the setting up of new LMO plants,” said public health minister Rajesh Tope. “We have six major players including Linde India, Inox Air Products, Praxair India, Taiyo Nippon Sanso India, JSW Steel and Air Liquid India Holdings who produce most of the current daily generation of 1295 MT. We are in talks with existing manufacturers and expect new entrants,” said an official from Mantralaya. During the discussion cabinet members also suggested incentives for the cooperative sugar sector, which has started tapping the generation of oxygen. The state has planned more than 290 PSA (Pressure Swing Absorption (PSA) plants and dozens of Air Separation Units, along with the LMO plants with the help of private players.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mission-oxygen-maharashtra-govt-approves-sops-for-industry-101620845265933.html
13-05-2021||Mumbai||Two weeks after videos of abuse surface, IIT-KGP suspends prof||A professor from the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT)-Kharagpur has been suspended two weeks after videos of her purportedly abusing students from Scheduled Caste, Scheduled Tribes categories and those with physical disabilities emerged on social media. Seema Singh, an associate professor of English from the department of Humanities and Social Sciences, was suspended on Monday pending an internal investigation, said Tamal Nath, registrar, IIT-Kharagpur. On April 24, video recordings of Singh were posted anonymously on the confessions page of the institute, an informal group of students on social media. The recordings are those of preparatory classes, allegedly taught by Singh online and attended by over 100 students and parents, where she can be heard hurling abuses repeatedly. IITs offer preparatory courses for two semesters to aspirants of SC and ST communities as well as persons with disability (PWD). The preparatory courses are offered against vacant seats reserved for students who missed out on admissions through the Joint Entrance Exam (JEE). At the end of the two semesters, the students can either take JEE again or seek admission based on their performance during the preparatory course. In the video clips, Singh can be heard verbally abusing both students and their parents for not attending classes, keeping their cameras switched off during the class. Singh also castigated a student for sending an email stating that they would not be able to attend the class for a few days due to the death of their grandparent. “Professor Singh has been suspended until further orders. A fact-finding committee had been instituted to look into the allegations and has submitted its report. We are now instituting an internal inquiry,” Nath said. Singh was unavailable for comment.Soon after the videos went viral, Singh had, in an email to students, apologised for her behaviour. “I am writing this to express my sincerest apology for what happened last week. It was definitely not my intention to hurt anyone… It was never the slightest intention to be discriminatory towards any segment of the student community,” Singh wrote in her email. Meanwhile, the National Commission for Scheduled Castes (NCSC) has taken suo motu cognisance of the matter and initiated an inquiry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/two-weeks-after-videos-of-abuse-surface-iit-kgp-suspends-prof-101620845206486.html
13-05-2021||Mumbai||SoBo society files case against contractor over fake Covid reports||A housing society in south Mumbai has filed a criminal case registered against a contractor for allegedly producing fake negative Covid-19 test reports of four workers engaged to carry out repairing work in a flat.According to Gamdevi police, the complainant Hiren Thakkar, 64, is the manager of Saajit Cooperative Housing Society Sagar Villa, located on Bhulabhai Desai Road. In his complaint to the police, he stated that one of the residents of the society, R Khemka, wanted to get some repairing work done at her flat and hence secured due permission from the society. But due to the ongoing pandemic situation, the government has made Covid-19 testing of labourers compulsory, before starting any repair work. After Khemka was informed about it, she told the same to the contractor, Shivaji Maruti Kambale. On Tuesday, four workers arrived at the society for the work and Kambale submitted their negative Covid test reports to the society. “When the society manager saw the Covid test reports, he noticed that the VID (Virtual ID) number and the testing time on all the four reports are same, which raised suspicion about the genuineness of the reports,” a police officer said.Thakkar then informed society’s chairman Percy Dubash, who then contacted the pathology lab for verification. The lab executive said those reports were not issued by them and further added that the VID number on the reports was linked to some other person’s test report conducted last year. Following this the society informed the Gamdevi police.“We have registered a case under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code against Kambale. His friend had helped him in making the false Covid test report. Both of them will face legal action soon,” said Rampiyare Rajbhar, senior inspector of Gamdevi police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/sobo-society-files-case-against-contractor-over-fake-covid-reports-101620845207206.html
13-05-2021||Mumbai||Congress must play role of strong opposition: Shiv Sena||Three days after questioning where the Congress would be in terms of national-level politics in 2024, the Shiv Sena on Wednesday, in an editorial in party mouthpiece Saamana, said the Congress must play the role of a strong opposition in the future. It stated that the popularity of the Narendra Modi government is sliding due to Covid-19 deaths, inflation, economic slowdown, unemployment, etc, and added that the prominent opposition party in the country must come down from “Twitter branch” to the ground. On Sunday, Sena leader Sanjay Raut in his weekly column RokhThok had taken a critical tone on the Congress’ performance in the Assembly elections held in West Bengal, Assam and Kerala. He had said there was no leader in Delhi to take on Modi. However, in an editorial on Wednesday, the Sena lauded Congress leader Rahul Gandhi for his criticism of the Centre and said that the Central government accepted several suggestions made by Gandhi in the fight against Covid-19. “Going ahead, the Congress party must act like a fierce opposition party. The anger against this government is building up among the people. The popularity of the government is sliding due to unemployment, economic slowdown, inflation, and deaths due to Covid-19. At this moment, all the key opposition parties must come down from the Twitter branch (social media) and go on ground. That does not mean leading crowd on the streets amid the Covid-19 pandemic, but the opposition must question the government on a daily basis. The Congress must take a lead in this,” the editorial said. The editorial further said that during the Congress Working Committee meeting, party president Sonia Gandhi expressed concern on the poor performance in the recently-held Assembly elections in five states. It said that the same issues were raised by the column (RokhThok) in Saamana. “The results are so poor that some changes have to be made to the party. Sonia Gandhi raised these issues in the meeting. Congress leaders from Maharashtra say they do not read Saamana, but Sonia Gandhi takes cognisance of Saamana,” the editorial read, taking a swipe at Maharashtra Congress president Nana Patole.The editorial also added that leaders, who had left the Congress, are going on to bring their own regional parties to power in that particular state. It cited examples of Trinamool Congress leader Mamata Banerjee in West Bengal, Hemant Sarma in Assam, and N Rangaswamy in Puducherry — all three are former Congress leaders. Speaking to reporters on Wednesday, Raut, executive editor of Saamana, said the views expressed in the newspaper was due to concern, as the Congress is a big party and contributed immensely in the freedom struggle. “The same party had to face defeat in Assam and Kerala, and Sonia Gandhi raised the issue of why the party could not come into power in the states during the party’s working committee meeting, which was also raised by Saamana,” said Raut. He further said that everybody, “be it gully or Delhi” (at local level and national as well), take note of Saamana and decide their policies accordingly,” said Sena leader.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/congress-must-play-role-of-strong-opposition-shiv-sena-101620845205355.html
13-05-2021||Mumbai||Storm expected to lash south Maharashtra coast starting Friday, may lead to cyclone||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has forecasted the formation of a low-pressure zone over the Arabian Sea starting Friday (May 14). This weather condition is then expected to intensify into a cyclonic storm by May 16, prompting IMD to issue yellow-category storm warnings for parts of Madhya Maharashtra and the southern end of Konkan coast. This is not expected to have significant impact over Mumbai and north Konkan.“Squally weather with wind speed reaching 45­55 kilo metre per hour (kmph) is very likely to prevail along and off South Maharashtra-Goa coasts on May 15 and 16. Sea conditions will be rough to very rough over South Maharashtra-Goa coasts on May 15 and 16. Fishermen are advised not to venture into these areas during the above period,” IMD’s regional forecasting centre said in a statement Wednesday.The storm “is very likely to move north to north-westwards and intensify further into a cyclonic storm over east central Arabian Sea around May 16 and continue to move north-north-westwards for some more time with further intensification,” it cautioned.IMD has issued a yellow alert with a forecast of thunderstorm with lightning, rain and gusty winds at isolated places in Ratnagiri, Sindhudurg, Ahmednagar, Kolhapur, Pune, Satara, Sangli, Solapur, Beed, Nanded, Latur, Osmanabad for May 14 and 15. This may also bring some relief to these districts from the summer heat. For Mumbai, however, partly cloudy skies are expected to prevail, with a near normal temperature (about 34 degrees Celsius daytime maximum) for the next few days.Orange category (ie heavy rainfall) alerts have been issued for Lakshadweep Islands from May 13 to May 15, along with the possibility of a tidal wave occurrence. Parts of Kerala, Karnatake and Tamil Nadu are expected to receive isolated but heavy bouts of rain over the next four days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/storm-expected-to-lash-south-maharashtra-coast-starting-friday-may-lead-to-cyclone-101620845205971.html
13-05-2021||Mumbai||Deonar plant: Firm checking green impact not accredited||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has outsourced the environment impact assessment (EIA) for a proposed waste-to-energy (WTE) plant at the Deonar dumping site to an unaccredited consultant organisation (CO), in variance of the directions of the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change (MoEFCC). Fine Envirotech Engineers (FEE), a Mahim-based environment consultancy headed by proprietor Dr Umesh Kulkarni, which conducted baseline environmental monitoring and socio-economic surveys for the Deonar WTE project, is not recognised by the National Accreditation Board for Education and Training (NABET), the statutory body that audits and certifies EIA consultants nationally. FEE has been tasked with drafting EIA reports for several other public infrastructure projects in the city. These include assessments for MMRDA’s Metro-2A and Metro-7 lines, and the BMC’s solid waste processing facility in Kanjurmarg. Dr Umesh Kulkarni, proprietor of FEE, also confirmed that his organisation has operated without NABET accreditation for “the past five or six years”. “There is a stay order from the Bombay High Court against the ministry’s office memorandums, which remains valid. I have been in the business for three decades and our team of experts, across sectors, have conducted several successful EIA projects.” The absence of NABET recognition does not preclude FEE from conducting such assessments. The accreditation was made mandatory for EIA Consultant Organizations by the Union environment ministry through an Office Memorandum dated December 2, 2009, FEE has obtained a stay order from the Bombay high court against the direction.“Fine Envirotech Engineers… have been granted stay of the Office Memorandums issued by the MoEF by which Environment Consultants were directed to have an accreditation from NABET,” states a letter written by FEE’s legal counsel to the environment ministry in September 2017, a copy of which has been accessed by HT. “By virtue of the same, Fine Envirotech Engineers are carrying various category projects all over India and are currently engaged by a varied clientele including government and private,” the letter continues. The HC order referred to was passed on August 23, 2013. The stay order continues to be valid. With the matter still subjudice, FEE is allowed to continue operations, but without statutory oversight.“The CO’s arrangement with the BMC is not illegal per se, but raises an important question which needs to be answered in public interest. Why are authorities giving work to an organisation that is not duty bound to a centrally mandated level of quality, and which does not get audited regularly? Even if the CO is technically capable, it creates a major hole in the accountability,” said Zaman Ali, a city-based environmental lawyer. Hindustan Times also spoke to representatives of two other COs based in Mumbai, accredited by NABET. “As a certified organisation, it is our view that such projects should be given only to accredited COs which have proven sector-specific expertise. The NABET certification process is riddled with red-tape and could be improved, but having accreditation is mandatory,” said a proprietor of one such firm, seeking anonymity.Experts also said the permissibility of unaccredited EIAs is questionable in light of the MoEFCC’s March 2016 amendment to the EIA notification, which clearly states that such work is to be undertaken only by certified organisations. BMC’s chief engineer for solid waste management, Kishor Bhambure, was unable for a comment. However, a subordinate official who is directly involved with the project, but requested anonymity, said they were not aware of such an amendment in law. “But we know that FEE is not recognised by NABET. They have a case pending in the courts and are in possession of a stay order, which makes them eligible to carry out the EIA for our Deonar plant,” said the official.There are, in fact, multiple stay orders in the matter passed by the High Courts of Gujarat and Karnataka as well, on the basis of different petitions from COs. “As a result of these stays by High Courts, some consultants who were actually not found competent through a detailed assessment process, are carrying out EIAs for various sectors thereby potentially endangering the projects as well as the environment and people around. Additionally, some other consultant organizations, who have not even applied for accreditation, are using this route to by-pass the entire process and doing work at inexplicably low costs. This is a big disincentive for… consultant organizations... who are willing to follow the process directed by the Government and are making continuous efforts and investments to produce proper EIAs,” the Quality Council of India noted in an internal report in April 2015.FEE’s Deonar EIA report itself has been criticised for a lack of rigour. A solid waste management expert certified by the Quality Council of India, and who has at least a decade of experience conducting similar impact assessments for projects in Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Maharashtra, said while seeking anonymity, “The EIA report suffers from a few gaps. Firstly, the OC has not ascertained whether the waste material from Deonar landfill is suitable for incineration. Second, there is no chemical analysis of the leachate generated by the landfill site, which may be polluting groundwater. There has been data collection, but the data has not been meaningfully interpreted for public benefit.”Moreover, the expert also pointed out that FEE has not, in its draft EIA document, adequately disclosed the names of concerned experts -- also known as Functional Area Experts -- involved in the exercise, along with their qualifications. “This disclosure is usually in the final chapter of any standard EIA document. In the given EIA report, in Chapter 12, the consultant has just given a person’s CV as consultant disclosure, without mentioning accreditation status of that person. There is no sector-wise list of appropriate experts. This is a violation of EIA guidelines,” said the QCI-certified expert quoted above.Experts also highlighted that there is likely to be an inherent conflict of interest when project proponents are allowed to appoint EIA consultants at their own discretion, and suggested that, to bring more transparency to this process, the consultants would ideally be allocated by regulatory authorities themselves.Commenting on the matter, Meenakshi Kapoor, an independent environmental policy researcher, “”This case raises more questions when viewed with a March 2020 order of the MoEFCC, in which it states that consultants who do not stick to the issued Terms of Reference should be issued a show cause notice and repeat offenders should be delisted. If non-accredited consultants can operate, they have nothing to lose even if they do a shoddy job and are told off for it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/deonar-plant-firm-checking-green-impact-not-accredited-101620845145392.html
13-05-2021||Mumbai||CR to deploy mechanised boats to assist passengers in case of waterlogging at railway tracks||In order to ensure the safety of passengers during monsoon, Central Railway (CR) will be deploying mechanised rescue boats at railway track flooding locations. Five mechanised rescue boats will be deployed to be used when local or outstation trains get stuck due to waterlogged railway tracks during monsoon. The quick response team and flood rescue team of the Railway Protection Force (RPF) have been trained by the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) to assist passengers during monsoon. Further, RPF will also monitor railway tracks with the help of drones. “During flooding of railway tracks, there have been instances where passengers got stuck. Mechanised boats will be used in such cases. Training of RPF personnel and railways commercial staff is also done,” said a senior CR official. Cleaning of drains near Ghatkopar, Dadar and Byculla railway stations are being undertaken currently while cleaning of railway culverts and drains near Sion, GTB Nagar and Kanjurmarg railway stations will be undertaken soon.The zonal railway has also undertaken drainage mapping of its railway tracks to inspect the pathway of drains and choking locations that generally lead to waterlogging on railway tracks.In addition, work is being carried out to remove muck from railway tracks as well as boulders in the ghat sections as preparatory work for monsoon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cr-to-deploy-mechanised-boats-to-assist-passengers-in-case-of-waterlogging-at-railway-tracks-101620845086644.html
13-05-2021||Mumbai||Elgar Parishad: Family of accused write to CM, seek release on bail||Family and friends of 15 accused arrested in Elgar Parishad and Bhima-Koregaon violence case have written to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, urging him to recommend releasing the 15 accused on interim bail to the high-power committee.In their letter, the family members said, “The Supreme Court of India has empowered state governments to form high-power committees which could then decide upon the release of prisoners in each state. We urge you to recommend to the committee to release the BK (Bhima-Koregaon) undertrials on interim bail at least. They are all law-abiding citizens who have families outside. We are worried about their safety in these desperate circumstances where everyone is at risk.”They claimed they were worried about the health of the arrested accused as most of them are aged above 60 years and have comorbidities. “Although vaccination is believed to reduce the lethality of Covid-19 infection, it is seen that only four BK undertrial detainee — Gautam Navlakha, Vernon Gonsalves, Sudha Bharadwaj and Shoma Sen — have received a single dose of the vaccine, as of last week of April,” reads the letter.The families also claimed the communication channel between the accused and their family members have also been disrupted. “Although letters have been written by the BK detainees in Taloja prison on several occasions in the past two months, we, the families, have not received most letters from them. The few letters that have reached the families were posted and delivered after delay of over a month. We are also concerned that they may be receiving letters written to them by their family and friends with undue delays,” they said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/elgar-parishad-family-of-accused-write-to-cm-seek-release-on-bail-101620845085964.html
13-05-2021||Other||SRN Hospital in Prayagraj gets much-needed 80 oxygen ventilators||allahabad.htdesk@hindustantimes.com : On behalf of the Government of Uttar Pradesh, a total of 80 oxygen ventilators procured under Prime Minister’s Relief Fund were handover to Swaroop Rani Nehru (SRN) hospital of Sangam city by the deputy chief minister, Keshav Prasad Maurya, on Wednesday. With these additional machines, the hospital would now have a total of 230 ventilators. The machines were handed over to the principal of MLN Medical College (SRNH being its associated hospital), Dr SP Singh in a simple event organised at the hospital, on Wednesday. Few days back, the state government had provided 100 monitors to be installed at ICU beds of the hospital. Speaking on the occasion, the deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya said that the state government was continuously making all possible efforts for the benefit of the general public in the ongoing war against the infection of Corona. The health workers were being equipped with the state-of-the-art medical equipment which would surely be a game changer and if we were confronted with the third wave of the pandemic, we would be able to beat it, he claimed. He also said that new measures would also be taken at the earliest for the expansion of Swaroop Rani Hospital campus. In addition to this, construction of another alternative route for coming to the hospital and an oxygen generating plant for the hospital were also in the pipeline. Moreover, efforts were on to relocate the postmortem house to the new place, he said. On this occasion, the principal of MLN Medical College, Dr SP Singh said that the state-of-the-art equipment being provided by the government not only encourages all the staff and doctors of the hospital but also enhances their ability to fight all kinds of medical ailments. “This assistance of the state government further increases the capacity of the hospital”, said Dr Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/srn-hospital-in-prayagraj-gets-much-needed-80-oxygen-ventilators-101620845085350.html
13-05-2021||Chandigarh||Two senior citizens, 30-yr-old killed in separate mishaps in Mohali||A pedestrian and two two-wheeler riders were killed in separate road accidents in the district in the past 24 hours.A 30-year-old man was killed after a car hit him and sped away on Wednesday. Police said Raj Kumar, a resident of Jagatpura Colony, was crossing the road near Phase-10/11 traffic lights when he was hit. He was rushed to Government Medical College and Hospital in Sector 32, but declared brought dead. A case was registered against the unknown driver.In another case, Kishmati Devi, 60, was killed and her husband, Dalveer Singh, 62, was seriously injured after a car hit their motorcycle near the Sector 78 traffic lights on Wednesday. Onlookers rushed them to a private hospital in Sector 69, but Devi died on the way, while Dalveer is battling for life. The car driver, Gaurav Sharma of Sector 78, was arrested on the spot.In the third accident, a truck claimed the life of 68-year-old Manjit Singh, who was riding a Honda Activa. As the truck hit Singh on Landran Road on Tuesday evening, he fell on the road and suffered serious injuries. He was taken to the Kharar civil hospital, but succumbed to his injuries before reaching the hospital. The truck driver, Sukhwinder Singh, was arrested and booked. The body was handed over to the family after autopsy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/two-senior-citizens-30-yr-old-killed-in-separate-mishaps-in-mohali-101620844905829.html
13-05-2021||Chandigarh||High drama as hundreds waiting for hours told to leave at Panchkula vax centre||Tempers flared at the Civil Hospital in Sector 6 as hundreds of people waiting for hours for Covid vaccine were told to return empty handed on Wednesday evening.Even those reaching at 4pm, ran into a queue of 300 people, who had arrived after reading or hearing news about a special event at the hospital, which normally does not host vaccinations, being a Covid care centre.“There was a news report that vaccination drive will go on till late evening at the Sector 6 hospital and people can reach by 5pm. But even after joining the queue at 4pm, I didn’t move three to four steps for the next two hours,” said Inayat Kakar, a Panchkula resident.She complained that while the vaccination moved at a snail’s pace with hundreds still in queue, a few VIPs went in for shots easily. As the staff announced the stock was over and the window was closed, heated arguments erupted.“Why invite people when they cannot manage the drive? Worse, people are being exposed to infection by holding the vaccination drive at a Covid care centre,” said Kakar, who returned without a jab at 6.30pm.When contacted, immunisation officer Meenu Sasan said the large-scale drive was held without her permission. “I never allow vaccination at a hospital that is treating Covid patients. There will be no more vaccination there.”She said the principal medical officer did approach her for a small vaccination event for around 100 people in view of Nurses’ Day, while saying that they will manage it, so she had only allowed that.Later, in the evening, she got a call during a meeting that lots of people had reached the hospital for vaccination. But, it was not managed as promised, she said.Vaccination pace slowing downEven though Panchkula took the lead in tricity in starting the third phase of vaccination for the 18-44 drive on May 2, its vaccination numbers have declined since April.Only 24,110 people have been vaccinated in the first 11 days of May, compared to 27,920 in the same period in April.This, despite the sharp surge in new infections and deaths. While the district had logged 8,013 cases through April, the figure has already reached 5,319 in just 12 days of May. Worse, at 60, the deaths this month have already surpassed April’s 53.Yet, the younger population is still finding it a challenge to book a slot, which gets full within a few minutes. “I have been trying to book a slot for several days now, but in vain. The slots are always full,” said Uday, a Panchkula resident.Another youth, Aakash, said he had been facing the same issue, with the slots turning red within a few seconds for the past three days.While those in the 18-44 category struggle for slots, those above 45 years are facing a tough time due to non-availability of the right vaccine for their second dose. For instance, there is no Covaxin stock at the government dispensaries in Sectors 7 and 12.To this, Dr Sasan said, “The vaccination drive depends on the supply of vaccines. In the beginning of May, there was a shortage of supply, hence the drive slowed down. But, we are trying our best to manage within the limited resources.”“The number of sites has been decreased for now, as our focus will be on covering those living in slums,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/high-drama-as-hundreds-waiting-for-hours-told-to-leave-at-panchkula-vax-centre-101620844366004.html
13-05-2021||Pune||Pune rural reports surge of 4,363 new Covid-19 cases; 33 more deaths||The district reported 9,536 new Covid cases and 74 deaths on Wednesday, as per the state health department. The rural areas of Pune reported twice the number of cases than the city and also the number of deaths from the rural areas is higher than usual.Pune rural reported 4,363 new cases which took the progressive counts to 252,078 and with 33 deaths the toll in the rural areas went up to 2,714.Pune city reported 2,021 new cases which took the progressive count to 465,545 and with 40 more deaths the toll went up to 5,929.PCMC reported 3,152 new cases the progressive count went up to 230,387 and with one more death the toll went up to 1,533.The progressive caseload of the district stands at 9.4 lakh out of which 8.34 lakh have recovered, 10,234 deaths were declared and 103,067 are active cases undergoing treatment in the hospital or are in home isolation.Meanwhile, the district also saw over 58,140 vaccinations on the day out of which Pune rural saw 31,383 vaccinations, Pune city saw 16,248 beneficiaries got the jab and PCMC saw 10,509 vaccinations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-rural-reports-surge-of-4-363-new-cases-101620840884657.html
13-05-2021||Pune||Pune Railway division’s smooth handling of “oxygen express” allows city to breathe easier for the future||PUNE At 12.30 am on Wednesday, a goods train carrying oxygen tankers stopped near a ramp built at the Loni railway station. This first train carrying oxygen tankers, four, had arrived in Pune from Angul, Orissa. Total liquid oxygen of 55.04 metric tonnes arrived in these tankers and was escorted by police and RTO officials to an oxygen plant in Chakan. “It took us around 1.5 hours to unload the tankers from the train, as initially air was filled into tyres of each tanker. The weight of each tanker is huge. Each tanker came onto the ramp and was safely unloaded,” said Vijaykumar Chobe, upper tehsildar, Chobe added, “We are still in very much need of oxygen supply, not only Pune, but for other districts in the Pune division. As of now all four tankers will go to Chakan where the liquid oxygen will be unloaded and stored.”Currently, daily, 325 metric tonnes of oxygen is needed for Pune district. This is supplied through oxygen coming from Gujarat and Karnataka, and oxygen manufactures within Pune district. Also, 30 tonnes of oxygen supplied by France of 40 tonnes was given to Pune district by the state government. Renu Sharma, Pune divisional railway manager said, “The railways role in this oxygen tankers movement is only as a transporter. These tankers on the train came from Angul, Odisha, and were given a green corridor with a preference on the route to reach Pune. As the tankers were fully loaded, the speed of the train was kept to around 60 kmph. To unload the four tankers at Loni railway station, a special ramp was built within two days. After this first experience of unloading oxygen tankers, Pune division is fully prepared for further any such operations, either at Loni or Khadaki railway station.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-railway-division-s-smooth-handling-of-oxygen-express-allows-city-to-breathe-easier-for-the-future-101620835003500.html
13-05-2021||Pune||Giripremi’s Jitendra Gaware summits Mt Everest; his 2nd 8K-m peak in less than a month||PUNE Jitendra Gaware believes his endurance and mental fitness helped him summit Mt. Everest. On May 12 at 7.30 am, Gaware and Sherpa, Pasang Zarok, reached the top of Mt Everest, a height of 8,848.86 metres. Gaware, a member of the Giripremi mountaineers club in Pune, summited his second 8,000-metre peak in less than a month. He climbed Mt Annapurna 1, the 10th tallest mountain in the world, on April 16. “I am tired, drained out, but extremely happy,” said Gaware, a resident of Wadgaonsheri, over the phone from base camp in Nepal. He calls his wife, son and his parents his strongest supports, that led him to achieve this feat. According to Umesh Zirpe, veteran mountaineer and leader of Giripremi expeditions, “Jitendra has been training for two years and has an exercise regime of six to seven hours, which is not easy. He has a good physique and was very focused on his training and goal of achieving his dream of summiting Everest. Although, Mount Annapurna is known for its extremely risky peak, it is every mountaineer’s dream to summit Everest.” Gaware has also climbed Mt Kanchenjunga, the third- tallest mountain in the world, in May 2019, and Mt Ama Dablam (Nepal), in October 2019. Gaware says he focused on endurance and trained rigorously by trekking 86km nonstop, from Sinhagad fort to Raigad, to Torna and back to Raigad. Bhushan Harshe and Dr Sumeet Mandale mentored Gaware. Ganesh More, Vivek Shivade, and Avinash Kandekar, a professor at the Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) helped Gaware with the weather forecasts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/giripremis-jitendra-gaware-summits-mt-everest-his-2nd-8k-m-peak-in-less-than-a-month-101620830082719.html
13-05-2021||World||US objects to UN meeting on Israel, Gaza on Friday: Officials||The United States has objected to a request by China, Norway and Tunisia for a public, virtual meeting of the United Nations Security Council on Friday to discuss the worsening violence between Israel and Palestinian militants, diplomats said.The United States, a close ally of Israel, cited diplomatic efforts as the reason for the objection, saying a council discussion would not be productive, but left the door open for a possible meeting on Tuesday, the diplomats said.The 15-member council has met privately twice this week on the worst hostilities in the region in years, but has so far been unable to issue a public statement because the United States did not believe it would be helpful, diplomats said.Such statements are agreed by consensus. All 15 council members also have to agree to a meeting under rules guiding the body's virtual operations during the Covid-19 pandemic.Israel unleashed its offensive on militants in Gaza after Hamas fired rockets at Jerusalem and Tel Aviv in retaliation for Israeli police clashes with Palestinians near al-Aqsa mosque in East Jerusalem during the Muslim fasting month of Ramadan.Worried hostilities could spiral out of control, the United States is sending an envoy to the region. Truce efforts by Egypt, Qatar and the United Nations have so far offered no sign of progress."The Security Council and international community should do its outmost to contribute to avoid a full-scale crisis," Norway's UN Ambassador Mona Juul said on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-objects-to-un-meeting-on-israel-gaza-on-friday-officials-101620929466924.html
13-05-2021||World||UK 'anxious' about Covid-19 variant first identified in India: PM Johnson||Britain is anxious about the spread of the novel coronavirus variant first detected in India and rules out nothing when it comes to re-introducing local restrictions, Prime Minister Boris Johnson said on Thursday.Johnson has laid out a "cautious but irreversible" route out of lockdown for England, with the next step planned for next week. He has warned new variants, such as the B.1.617.2 variant, pose a risk to that plan."We are anxious about it - it has been spreading," Johnson said, adding that there would be meetings later on Thursday to discuss what to do."We're ruling nothing out," Johnson said.There has been a surge in cases of the variant in north-west England, and local politicians have called for a change in policy so any adult in the area can get a shot, even if they don't meet age-based priority criteria.The local council of the town of Blackburn said additional Covid-19 vaccination clinics would open next week to speed up shots, but denied reports that vaccines would be widely available to all over-18s in the area, saying eligibility for the shots would follow current guidance.After England's initial Covid-19 lockdown, Johnson had sought a regional approach to restrictions, which ultimately failed, and two further national lockdowns followed.He has sought a nationwide approach to the easing of restrictions this time, and reiterated that, despite the local surges in variant cases, he hoped restrictions would end across the whole nation in June."At the moment I can see nothing that dissuades me from thinking we'll be able to go ahead on Monday and June 21 everywhere," he added, referring to further steps to ease lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-anxious-about-covid-19-variant-first-identified-in-india-pm-johnson-101620929039920.html
13-05-2021||World||Gas crunch continues across much of US after pipeline hack||Gas pumps remained shrouded by plastic bags Thursday at thousands of service stations across more than a dozen US states, but the situation could improve as a pipeline company reported “substantial progress" in resuming operations after a computer hack led to its shutdown.Despite signs of progress in restarting the pipeline, nearly 70% of North Carolina's gas stations on Thursday were still without fuel, as were about half the stations in South Carolina and Georgia, GasBuddy.com reported. Drivers on the East Coast were also having trouble, with more than half the stations tapped out in Virginia. Washington, DC, was among the hardest-hit places Thursday, with 73% of stations out, the site's tracking service showed.President Joe Biden said Thursday that US officials do not believe the Russian government was involved in the Colonial Pipeline hack, but “we do have strong reason to believe that the criminals who did the attack are living in Russia. That’s where it came from.”The US had been in direct communication with Moscow about the need to take action against ransom networks, Biden said. The FBI has said the ransomware belonged to a criminal syndicate known as DarkSide.In a Thursday update, the Georgia-based pipeline company said gasoline delivery is now underway in most of its markets.The Colonial Pipeline stretches from Texas to New Jersey, but the northeastern US has seen fewer disruptions since those states are supplied more by other sources such as ocean tankers.Gas is flowing again across most of the Deep South, and other parts that were offline in the Mid-Atlantic region were expected to become operational later Thursday, the company said.“We are not out of the woods yet, but the trees are thinning out,” Richard Joswick, global head of oil analytics at S&P Global Platts said in an email. He estimates that full recovery for the East Coast and Gulf Coast will take a couple of weeks at least due to lags and limits for all shipping options.The cybersecurity attack on the Colonial Pipeline forced a temporary shutdown of the nation's largest fuel pipeline, prompting panic-buying and long lines that quickly wiped out supplies around the southeastern US The company resumed pipeline operations late Wednesday, but said it would take several days for deliveries to return to normal.In Virginia, the run on gas prompted an urgent warning Thursday that people should never siphon gasoline after calls in recent days about people being poisoned.There have been a handful of cases in the region covered by the Blue Ridge Poison center at UVA Health, including a significant one Wednesday that prompted the warning, said Dr. Chris Holstege, the center’s medical director.A man using an opaque hose to siphon gasoline from a vehicle sucked gasoline right into his lungs, causing significant distress, Holstege said. He is expected to recover and didn’t have to go to intensive care, he said.The governors of both North Carolina and Virginia declared states of emergency to help ensure access. Other governors urged people not to hoard supplies.“Now that Colonial has restarted pipeline operations, we will see a gradually increasing return to normal conditions that will take several days,” North Carolina Gov. Roy Cooper said in a statement Thursday.Mary Goldburg, 60, of Norfolk, Virginia, said she needs her car for work but also to see her grandchildren — whom she barely got to see last year. Her job includes delivering T-shirts for events and other promotional products.“I can’t get paid until my customers get their products,” Goldburg said at a 7-Eleven.The Colonial Pipeline delivers about 45% of the fuel consumed on the East Coast. There is no gasoline shortage, according to government officials and energy analysts, just delays in delivering the fuel from Gulf Coast refineries.The distribution problems have been fraying nerves.Two people were charged with assault after spitting in each other's faces over spots in a line at a Marathon station in Knightdale, outside Raleigh, on Tuesday afternoon, authorities said.In Walton County, Georgia, paramedic Jeff Lisle had just under a quarter-tank of gas in his Jeep and found a small amount in the cans he uses for his lawnmower in case he needed the extra boost to get to work.The shutdown even affected hikers long the Appalachian Trail, which stretches from Georgia to Maine. They depend on cars and vans to access the trail and get supplies.“Everybody’s out here buying from the same gas pumps, so the lines are long, some are out -- you’ve really got to look for it,” said Ron Brown, who operates Ron’s Appalachian Trail Shuttles, which takes hikers from Atlanta’s airport into the north Georgia mountains.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/gas-crunch-continues-across-much-of-us-after-pipeline-hack-101620928388793.html
13-05-2021||World||Myanmar to free Japanese journalist as gesture to Tokyo||A Japanese freelance journalist in Myanmar who was jailed and charged with spreading false news or information that could cause public unrest will be freed by the country’s ruling junta as a gesture of friendship with Japan, a state television report said Thursday.The announcement on Myanmar's army-run Myawaddy TV said Yuki Kitazumi had been arrested on April 18 for “inciting” the country’s anti-military civil disobedience movement and riots.“Although the journalist is a lawbreaker, the case will be closed and he will be released at the request of the Special Envoy of the Japanese Government for National Reconciliation in Myanmar, in view of the close ties and future relations between Myanmar and Japan," said a news reader, quoting an official statement from the junta, formally called the State Administrative Council.The military seized power on Feb. 1, ousting the elected government of Aung San Suu Kyi. It has faced large and constant popular opposition, which it has tried to suppress with the use of force that has cost hundreds of lives and by muzzling the news media.Also Read| Japanese journalist, arrested in Myanmar, charged with spreading false newsJapan has criticized the military government’s deadly crackdown on opposition but has taken a milder approach than the United States and some other countries that imposed sanctions against members of the junta.Kitazumi, a former reporter for Japan’s Nikkei business news, had also been charged with violating visa regulations. He was the first foreign journalist to be charged under a statute which the state press has described as aiming at “fake news.”He has posted reports and views about developments in Myanmar on Facebook. Hours before his arrest, he posted a video showing Myanmar citizens gathering at a Tokyo temple to pay tribute to people killed by Myanmar security forces trying to quell protests.Kitazumi had been detained briefly by police in late February while covering pro-democracy protests in Myanmar.The announcement that he had been granted clemency came a day after a military court sentenced a Myanmar journalist to three years in prison for his reporting on similar charges.Min Nyo is a correspondent for DVB -- the Democratic Voice of Burma, an online and broadcast news agency — which has continued to operate despite being banned by the junta.A statement issued by DVB said Min Nyo had been covering a March 3 anti-junta protest in the town of Pyay, 260 kilometers (160 miles) northwest of Yangon when he was arrested and severely beaten by police.About 80 journalists have been arrested since the military's takeover. Roughly half are still detained and most of them are being held under charges like the one for which Min Nyo was convicted, as are many activists opposed to the military regime.Rights group Amnesty International said Min Nyo’s case showed the ruthlessness of the junta and the risks faced by journalists exposing the junta’s abuses.“Min Nyo’s conviction must be quashed, and he should be released immediately – along with all other journalists, activists and human rights defenders imprisoned and detained solely for their peaceful opposition to the military coup,” Amnesty Deputy Regional Director Emerlynne Gil said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/myanmar-to-free-japanese-journalist-as-gesture-to-tokyo-101620926690857.html
13-05-2021||World||K P Sharma Oli set to be reappointed as Nepal PM as Oppn fails to muster majority support||K P Sharma Oli was set to be reappointed as Nepal Prime Minister as the Opposition alliance of Nepali Congress and the Communist Party of Nepal (Maoist Centre) on Thursday failed to muster majority support to form the next government.President Bidya Devi Bhandari had asked the Opposition parties to come up with the support of majority lawmakers to form a new government by 9 PM on Thursday after Oli lost a crucial trust vote in the House of Representatives on Monday.As the Opposition parties failed to claim majority government under article 76 (2) of the Constitution, President Bhandari is likely to re-appoint Oli, 69, as Prime Minister under article 76 (3) tonight, sources said.Although Nepali Congress president Sher Bahadur Deuba had received support from CPN Maoist chairman Pushpakamal Dahal 'Prachanda', he could not get support from Janata Samajwadi Party (JSP).JSP's President Upendra Yadav had assured to support Deuba but the party's another president Mahanta Thakur had rejected the idea.Nepali Congress and Maoist Centre have 61 and 49 seats in the lower house. Their combined strength was 110, which is insufficient to win majority vote.At present 136 votes are needed to form a majority government. JSP has 32 seats in the House. If JSP had extended support Deuba would get chance to claim for PM.The UML has 121 seats in the 275 member House. Madhav Nepal faction with 28 MPs had decided not to tender enmasse resignation after caretaker Prime Minister Oli and Nepal had inked a deal on Thursday.Oli withrew the action taken against four UML leaders including Nepal and assured to address their other demands. If 28 UML MPs had resigned, the total strength of the House of Representatives would be reduced to 243. Currently there are 271 valid members in the House. If they had resigned only 122 votes would be sufficient to stake claim for majority government.Earlier, Nepali Congress president Deuba and CPN-Maoist Centre chairman "Prachanda" held a meeting at the former's residence to discuss the formation of the new government.Similarly, caretaker Prime Minister and chairman of ruling CPN-UML Oli and dissident leader of the party Madhav Kumar Nepal held a meeting in an attempt to make the last effort to patch up their differences.Earlier, Baburam Bhattarai, a senior leader of JSP-N, said all parties needed to form a new national coalition government and hold elections in one year.Bhattarai said such a government should not be led by a former prime minister or the current prime minister.Bhattarai said such a government should be run based on a common minimum programme, should resolve the Covid crisis, and ensure economic relief packages, constitution amendment, and truth and reconciliation.Given the parties’ strengths and particularly the factional feuds in the CPN-UML and the Janata Samajbadi, many say the current numbers game is just a futile exercise and that the country, which has had eight different governments in a decade, would sooner or later head towards early polls, the Kathmandu Post reported.After Oli lost the trust vote, the NC, the CPN -MC and the faction of the JSP led by Yadav urged President Bhandari to invoke Article 76 (2) of the Constitution to pave the way for the formation of a new government.It says in cases where no party has a clear majority in the House, the President shall appoint as the prime minister a member of the House who can command the majority with the support of two or more parties in the lower house of Parliament.If two or more political parties failed to give a majority Prime Minister by Thursday evening then the President will invite parties to submit the name of a minority Prime Minister from the largest party as per Article 76 sub-clause 3 of the Constitution.In that case, Oli, whose party has 121 seats in Parliament, may again claim stake as the new prime minister. If Oli is appointed under the Constitution, he also needs to win the vote of confidence within 30 days from the date of the appointment.Nepal plunged into a political crisis on December 20 last year after President Bhandari dissolved the House and announced fresh elections on April 30 and May 10 at the recommendation of Prime Minister Oli, amidst a tussle for power within the ruling Nepal Communist Party (NCP).Oli's move to dissolve the House sparked protests from a large section of the NCP led by his rival 'Prachanda'.In February, the apex court reinstated the dissolved House, in a setback to Oli who was preparing for snap polls. Known for his pro-China stance, Oli had earlier served as the country's prime minister from October 11, 2015 to August 3, 2016 during which Kathmandu's ties with New Delhi had strained.Nepal's Covid-19 cases reached 431,191 as 8,842 fresh cases were reported in the past 24 hours on Thursday. As many as 214 more deaths were also logged, taking the national toll to 4,466.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/oli-set-to-be-reappointed-as-nepal-pm-as-oppn-fails-to-muster-majority-support-101620925364656.html
13-05-2021||World||Philippines to ease Covid-19 curbs in capital as daily cases decline||Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte on Thursday approved the easing of some coronavirus restrictions in the capital and nearby provinces, with daily Covid-19 infections well down from a peak six weeks ago.Religious gatherings and dining in restaurants will be allowed in Metro Manila and in the provinces of Bulacan, Rizal, Laguna and Cavite for two weeks beginning on Saturday, but non-essential travels will remain prohibited.Outdoor tourist attractions may be opened but only at 30% capacity.The quarantine status of Metro Manila and the adjacent provinces will be reviewed before May 31.Since the government reimposed stricter rules on movement, new daily infections have fallen from a high of 15,310 on April 2. Daily cases this month have so far averaged around 6,700 in the country, which has the second-highest number of Covid-19 cases and deaths in Southeast Asia.Gatherings for religious events as well as for funerals for those who died of causes other than Covid-19 will be allowed but limited to up to 10% of the venue capacity.Duterte appealed to the public to "tone down" any religious gatherings and to stay mindful of the current situation."There is no way of knowing how long this (pandemic) will last," he said in a regular televised address.Heightened restrictions would still be in place, he said, and warned that he would hold local government officials responsible for any violations of health and safety protocols.The government remains on guard especially against more infectious coronavirus variants, and has temporarily barred travellers coming from India, Pakistan, Sri Lanka, Nepal and Bangladesh.The health ministry said on Tuesday that the country has detected two cases of a variant first identified in India, which is facing a devastating Covid-19 crisis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/philippines-to-ease-covid-19-curbs-in-capital-as-daily-cases-decline-101620923507042.html
13-05-2021||World||Germany's small liberal party eyes big role in Merkel succession||After 16 years of rule under Angela Merkel, a small party that believes in big tax cuts and legalising cannabis wants to play kingmaker in Germany's next government. They might just pull it off.The latest opinion polls indicate that no two parties will command a comfortable majority after September's national election, offering the liberal Free Democrats (FDP) the chance to make up the numbers and wield outsized influence in the era following Merkel's exit after four terms as chancellor.Polling 10-12% now, the business-friendly FDP would likely be the third party to join the conservatives and the ecologist Greens if they cannot muster a majority, or to team up with the Greens and the left-leaning Social Democrats (SPD).Those scenarios would see either conservative Armin Laschet or the Greens' Annalena Baerbock succeed Merkel as leader of Europe's largest economy and most populous country."Many constellations are conceivable," FDP leader Christian Lindner told Reuters in an interview. "There is a high probability that we will play a role."The FDP, which has contributed to the historical giants of German politics such as late foreign minister Hans-Dietrich Genscher, has been in national government before, mostly in coalitions with the conservative CDU/CSU bloc or centre-left Social Democrats (SPD).After Germany's last election in 2017, the FDP entered talks with the conservatives and Greens on forming a so-called "Jamaica" coalition, named after their respective party colours which match the Caribbean nation's flag. But Lindner walked out, infuriating the others and forcing a repeat of the conservatives' awkward "grand coalition" with the SPD."Our red lines were broken, nothing was right back then," Lindner said, recalling that tax relief, strengthened education and the FDP's idea for a ministry for digitalization were not on the table. "We will be guided by such questions this time too."COALITION OPTIONSDespite the 2017 experience, Laschet has stated his clear preference for the FDP as his coalition ally, though they lack the numbers so far. He already governs with the FDP in his home state of North Rhine-Westphalia.Neither the Greens nor the Social Democrats with their chancellor candidate, current Finance Minister Olaf Scholz, have signalled a preference for the next coalition.In the western state of Rhineland-Palatinate, the SPD and Greens have just renewed their coalition with the FDP, though the region's FDP chairman said after a March vote that "state politics and federal politics cannot be compared".Lindner told Reuters the conservatives are "the closest to us" and that "the CDU is rather undervalued". Several polls show the Greens overtaking Laschet's Christian Democrats (CDU).A sports car fan and reserve officer in the Luftwaffe air force, Lindner has badgered Merkel's government during the COVID-19 pandemic with questions about whether strict lockdowns against the coronavirus are necessary.Who would he like to share government with, and at what price?"We are not ruling out anything in terms of coalition options," Lindner said. "But the question does not arise at this point in time. We have to make it very clear what our priorities are in terms of content."The FDP, which champions individual civil rights, wants to allow the sale of cannabis in licensed shops, ease bureaucratic burdens on business and cut taxes to help shore up German industries hard hit by the pandemic.The Free Demovrats will convene a congress this weekend to formally adopt their election programme."Our goal is for black-green or green-black to fall short of a mandate majority," Lindner said with reference to the ecologist Greens and the conservative alliance of the CDU and its Bavarian sister party, the Christian Social Union (CSU).Oskar Niedermayer, political scientist at the Free University of Berlin, said polling gave weight to the FDP's position: "This is not a flash in the pan anymore," he said.Whether the FDP can indeed wield the balance of power after the election "depends on how much change the stability-oriented Germans really want," said Karl-Rudolf Korte from the NRW School of Governance in Duisburg-Essen.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/germanys-small-liberal-party-eyes-big-role-in-merkel-succession-101620907201542.html
13-05-2021||World||Judge postpones trial for 3 ex-cops charged in George Floyd’s death||The trial of three former Minneapolis police officers charged with aiding and abetting in the death of George Floyd will be pushed back to March 2022, a judge ruled Thursday.Thomas Lane, J. Kueng and Tou Thao were scheduled to face trial Aug. 23 on charges they aided and abetted both murder and manslaughter. The officers’ co-defendant, Derek Chauvin, has already been convicted of murder and manslaughter counts. All four officers also face federal charges that allege they violated Floyd’s civil rights during his May 25 arrest.Judge Peter Cahill said he changed the date so the federal case can go forward first. He also said he felt the need to put some distance between the three officers’ trial and Chauvin’s due to all the publicity around the case.The news that the trial was being pushed back came during a Thursday hearing on pretrial motions. Defense attorneys for all three former officers agreed to the postponement. The state, via Assistant Attorney General Matthew Frank, did not support the delay. It wasn’t made clear at Thursday’s motions hearing who originally sought the change.Cahill also weighed Thursday a request that prosecutors be sanctioned after media reports that Chauvin had planned to plead guilty a year ago, and allegations that they haven't disclosed information about the alleged coercion of a witness.Attorneys for Lane, Kueng and hao have said they want the court to require prosecuting attorneys to submit affidavits under oath that they aren't responsible for the leak to the media. In a filing late Wednesday, Thao's attorney also alleged that the Hennepin County medical examiner was coerced to include “neck compression” in his findings — and that prosecutors knew of it.The former officers waived their right to appear at Thursday’s hearing.Attorney General Keith Ellison, whose office is prosecuting the officers, has said allegations that his office was involved in a leak are false. His office had no immediate comment on the allegations of coercion. A spokeswoman for Dr. Andrew Baker, the medical examiner, said they could not comment due to the pending case.Chauvin, who was seen in widely viewed bystander video pressing his knee into Floyd’s neck as the Black man said he couldn’t breathe, was convicted in April of second-degree unintentional murder, third-degree murder and manslaughter. He’s to be sentenced June 25.Lane, Kueng and Thao are charged with aiding and abetting second-degree murder and aiding and abetting second-degree manslaughter. Their trial was separated from Chauvin's to comply with COVID-19 courtroom spacing restrictions.Bob Paule, Thao's attorney, said in a court filing Wednesday that Baker initially said there was no physical evidence that Floyd died of asphyxiation. But after talking twice to Dr. Roger Mitchell – a former medical examiner in Washington, D.C. – he amended his findings to include neck compression as a factor, according to Paule.Paule said that in one of the conversations, Mitchell called Baker and told him he was going to submit an opinion piece critical of Baker's findings to the Washington Post. When Baker released final autopsy findings June 1, they included neck compression, Paule wrote, and Mitchell never submitted his piece to the newspaper.Mitchell, now chairman of the Department of Pathology at the Howard University College of Medicine, did not immediately respond to a phone message left at the department after hours.Paule also took aim at Mitchell's criticism of Dr. David Fowler, a key defense witness for Chauvin who testified that the former officer was not responsible for Floyd's death. Mitchell sent a letter — signed by 431 doctors from around the country — to the Maryland attorney general, saying Fowler's conclusions were so far outside the bounds of accepted forensic practice that all his previous work could be questioned.Maryland officials then announced they would review all in-custody death reports during Fowler's tenure. Paule said Mitchell's accusations had a chilling effect on Thao's ability to find medical experts unafraid to testify on his behalf.He said prosecutors have yet to give the defense evidence about Mitchell's actions. He's asking that the case against Thao be dismissed.Paule also said in a court filing in February that he wants an order sanctioning the state for “its role — directly or indirectly — in the leaking of highly prejudicial information related to potential plea agreements of co-defendants.”The New York Times reported Feb. 10 that Chauvin was ready to plead guilty to a third-degree murder charge last year but then-Attorney General William Barr rejected the agreement. The Associated Press published a similar report the next day, citing two law enforcement officials with direct knowledge of the talks. Paule alleged that the leaks came from the state, and asked that anyone who did so be barred from participating in the trial. Tom Plunkett, Kueng's attorney, echoed his statements.Ellison earlier dismissed Paule's motion as “completely false and an outlandish attempt to disparage the prosecution.”Earl Gray, Lane's attorney, has a motion asking Judge Peter Cahill to compel the state to disclose all use-of-force reports over the past 50 years in which a Minneapolis police officer used force and another officer intervened verbally or physically. Gray said it's necessary to show the jury that no such intervention has been made in the past 50 years, which would call into question the state’s expert testimony about the duty of officers to intervene.Prosecutors have said that request should be denied. They've noted that department policy requires officers to intervene when excessive force is used, and say Gray hasn’t shown how the testimony of experts could be called into question by a lack of interventions.All four officers have also been indicted on federal charges alleging they violated Floyd’s civil rights.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/judge-postpones-trial-for-3-ex-cops-charged-in-george-floyd-s-death-101620920692380.html
13-05-2021||World||Next 2 months very crucial for Pakistan's Covid-19 outbreak, warns foreign minister Qureshi||Pakistan's foreign minister is warning that the next two months are very crucial for the country's coronavirus outbreak and that people must continue observing social distancing.Shah Mehmood Qureshi made the comments Thursday after Eid al-Fitr prayers in the city of Multan.He noted that the COVID-19 situation is very bad in neighbouring India, where record numbers of infections were reported in recent weeks.He said Pakistan has had a decline in cases since last month, when troops were deployed to force people to adhere to social distancing rules.Qureshi praised troops and police for playing a key role along with health workers in combatting the coronavirus.Earlier, Muslims thronged mosques for Eid al-Fir prayers across the country.Although some worshippers were carefully spaced one meter (three feet) apart, most violated social distancing rules.Authorities reported 126 new deaths and 3,235 new infections on Thursday.Pakistan has reported 19,336 deaths and 870,703 coronavirus cases since last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/next-2-months-very-crucial-for-pakistan-s-covid-19-outbreak-warns-foreign-minister-qureshi-101620919254280.html
13-05-2021||World||Kremlin critic Alexei Navalny's team abandon formal street protests, says ally||An ally of jailed Kremlin critic Alexei Navalny said on Thursday his team could no longer organise formal street protests after a Russian state crackdown, but that "spontaneous" protests would take their place.The comments, by Lithuania-based Leonid Volkov, are the latest sign that a legal onslaught against Navalny's movement has forced it to rethink the way it does things.Navalny, President Vladimir Putin's most prominent domestic critic, was jailed in February. His arrest the previous month sparked nationwide protests at which police arrested thousands of people after declaring the rallies illegal.After a pause, Navalny's team staged a protest last month to demand proper medical care for Navalny while he was on hunger strike in prison. Turnout was more modest than expected.With the movement about to be declared "extremist", Volkov said formal protests were no longer an option."It's hard to imagine that new protests will happen in the same format that we got used to from 2017-21: when a date was announced in advance and preparations in dozens of towns got under way," Volkov wrote on the Telegram messenger service."But since it's obvious that the fundamental reasons for protesting are not going away ... it's clear that the protests will not go away. It's just that if there are no organisers, they will break out spontaneously."During a virtual discussion organised by the University of Chicago on Wednesday, Volkov predicted Russian opposition protests would start to resemble those that erupted in Tunisia in 2011 and eventually toppled a veteran leader.The Levada Center, an independent pollster, published data on Thursday indicating public support for street protests backing Navalny had fallen to 16% of the population in April from 22% in January.Navalny's allies have suspended the work of his network of regional campaign offices, which has been added to a list of organisations said to be involved in "terrorism and extremism", but Volkov has said they are capable of regrouping.Navalny, who last year survived what German doctors said was a nerve agent poisoning, is serving a 2-1/2 year jail sentence for violations of parole terms on a suspended sentence he had been serving on embezzlement charges that he says were trumped up.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/kremlin-critic-alexei-navalny-s-team-abandon-formal-street-protests-says-ally-101620916461220.html
13-05-2021||World||2 arrested in Bangladesh for plotting attack on Parliament||The counter-terrorism police in Bangladesh have arrested two people for plotting an attack on Parliament and instigating others to join them, according to a media report.The arrested persons have been identified as Abu Sakib, 22, a member of the banned militant outfit Ansar Al Islam, while the other Ali Hasan Osama is a radical orator.According to the preliminary investigation, Sakib opened a Facebook group and urged everyone to come with a sword and a flag with Islamic phrases inscribed on it to attack the parliament building, bdnews24 said in a recent report.However, no one responded to his request.Sakib, who is a college student, was detained from outside the Parliament building on May 5. He was charged with carrying a sword and a black flag, Saiful Islam, deputy commissioner of the counter-terrorism unit, was quoted as saying in the report.Osama was arrested on May 6 and police did not provide any details about him, the report said.Sakib was reportedly motivated by Osama's words and “came to embrace martyrdom while attacking the parliament,” the report said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/2-arrested-in-bangladesh-for-plotting-attack-on-parliament-101620908931622.html
13-05-2021||World||Greensill Capital case: Ex-UK PM Cameron denies lobbying for 'personal gain'||Former British Prime Minister David Cameron is facing questions over the collapse of Greensill Capital, after releasing phone and email messages showing his intensive lobbying efforts on behalf of the firm.Under early questioning, Cameron denied being motivated by personal gain when he sent top government ministers and officials at the Bank of England text messages and emails in a bid to persuade them to include Greensill in a program of state-backed lending.He is giving oral evidence to the Treasury committee and the public accounts committee, two senior panels of lawmakers that are investigating the failure of Greensill, which has now put thousands of U.K. jobs at risk.Cameron was questioned why he finished a text message to Tom Scholar, a top Treasury official who was his former aide, with the sign-off “Love Dc”.He replied that “anyone I know at all well” receives the sign-off. “I don’t know why; I just do,” Cameron said. “My children tell me I don’t need to sign of text messages at all.”Cameron also said he met Scholar for drinks a “couple of times” since leaving office.Cameron Earned More at Greensill Than as PM (3:00 p.m.)Greensill paid Cameron “far more” than he earned as U.K. prime minister, he told the committee, acknowledging that he held shares in the company. But he also dismissed as “completely absurd” reports that his interest totaled 60 million pounds ($84 million).“I wanted this business to succeed,” he said. “I was being paid, I had shares, I had an interest in it.”Asked about his assiduous lobbying for access to one of the Bank of England’s Covid relief schemes in the first half of 2020, Cameron said personal interest “was not what motivated me.”Cameron Says Greensill Not in Jeopardy at Start of Pandemic (2:45 p.m.)Lawmakers are now questioning Cameron. He insisted that at the start of the Covid-19 pandemic, Greensill was in a good financial position. He has previously said that the first he knew of difficulties was in December 2020.“There was no sense of jeopardy” at the outset of the pandemic, Cameron said. “Greensill had a successful 2019, it was set to have a successful 2020.”“I wanted this business to succeed,” he said. “I was paid an annual amount, a generous amount, much more than I was paid as prime minister.”Cameron Makes Contrite Opening Statement (2:35 p.m.)Cameron opens his testimony with a statement, saying that this session marks a “painful” return to Parliament, which he cals as “a place that I love and respect so much.” Cameron explained his motivations in working for Greensill, and stressed that he abided by all the rules in place on lobbying.“But rules alone are never enough. We learned that in this place there are so many issues, personal conduct and codes of behavior and how such conduct and behavior appears and can be perceived, these things matter too,” he said. ”I believe there are important lessons to be learned,” Cameron added.“I completely accept that former prime ministers are in a different position to others because of the office that we held, and the influence that continues to bring.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/greensill-capital-case-ex-uk-pm-cameron-denies-lobbying-for-personal-gain-101620916254280.html
13-05-2021||World||Nepal reports 8,960 new Covid-19 cases; total tally at 431,191||Nepal has reported 8,960 new cases of coronavirus in the last 24 hours, taking the total number of cases to 431,191, the health ministry said on Thursday.The Ministry of Health and Population also said that the nation has reported 214 new deaths in the last one day taking the death toll to 4,466.“The cases are continuously on surge with 8,960 new cases recorded in the last one day. The total figure currently is 431,191. Deaths have also gone up to 4,466,” the health ministry said in a statement.Health officials have conducted 20,245 new coronavirus screening tests in the last one day, the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/nepal-reports-8-960-new-covid-19-cases-total-tally-at-431191-101620910576745.html
13-05-2021||World||Singapore police investigate another hate crime against Indian family||Singapore police is investigating another hate crime against an Indian family for not wearing a mask during the pandemic, a media report said on Thursday, days after a man of Chinese ethnicity was arrested for allegedly assaulting a woman of Indian-origin.Police are investigating a 47-year-old man for public nuisance and uttering words with deliberate intent to wound the racial feelings of others in relation to an incident which took place at Pasir Ris Beach Park, the Singapore Police Force (SPF) said on Thursday.Preliminary investigations revealed that on May 2, at about 6 pm, the man had allegedly uttered offensive remarks towards an Indian family and confronted a male member of the family for not wearing his mask at Pasir Ris Beach Park, police said in a news release, according to a report by Channel News Asia.Police did not identify the ethnicity of the man who made the alleged remarks.The incident was first reported by Mothership (an online media outlet), which received footage of the encounter from the Indian family.In the video, the 47-year-old is seen shouting at another man. He accuses the man of not wearing a mask and of breaking social distancing rules, and asks where he served his National Service (a compulsory service for Singaporeans).The alleged perpetrator also says “this is my country” and “you are spreading the virus” during the exchange, according to the Channel report. Police investigations are ongoing and the man is assisting with investigations, SPF said.The offence of public nuisance carries a jail term of up to three months, a fine of up to SGD2,000, or both.Offenders who utter words with deliberate intent to wound the racial feelings of any person face up to three years in prison, a fine of up to SGD 5,000, or both.Last Friday, police arrested a 30-year-old man of Chinese ethnicity for allegedly assaulting a 55-year-old woman of Indian origin.The man was arrested “for public nuisance, uttering words with intent to wound the racial feelings of others and voluntarily causing hurt”, the SPF said on Tuesday.The woman was walking along a walkway at Choa Chu Kang Drive at about 8.45am on May 7 when she was confronted by a Chinese couple who told her to wear her mask properly as a safety measure for the public in fight against Covid-19, said the SPF of the case earlier this week.Law and Home Affairs Minister K Shanmugam has also told parliamentarians that Singapore will fail if the country allows racism and xenophobia to become prevalent.Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong and Ministers have also condemned the attack on the woman who was brisk walking, one of the exercises for which wearing a face mask is exempted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/singapore-police-investigate-another-hate-crime-against-indian-family-101620910744108.html
13-05-2021||World||China hails removal of Xiaomi from US govt blacklist, calls move 'beneficial'||China’s commerce ministry on Thursday welcomed the removal of Xiaomi Corp. from a U.S. government blacklist, a day after the U.S. reversed a ban on U.S. investments in the smartphone maker that was imposed under former President Donald Trump.“China has always believed that removing sanctions and restrictions and stopping suppression of Chinese companies will benefit China, the United States, and the world,” Gao Feng, spokesperson for China’s Ministry of Commerce, said at a news briefing Thursday.Xiaomi, a Beijing-based company known for its value-for-money smartphones and smart devices, was added to a Defense Department blacklist in January this year in the last few days of the Trump administration, which accused it of links to China’s military.U.S. investors were ordered to divest their stakes held in Xiaomi by November.In response, Xiaomi sued the U.S. government over the ban, demanding to be removed from the list. It denies having any links with China’s People’s Liberation Army.On Wednesday, a U.S. court filing said that the U.S. Department of Defense will remove Xiaomi from the blacklist after the two parties reached an agreement, media reports said.A Xiaomi spokesperson said that the company was paying close attention to the issue.The company's Hong Kong-listed shares fell nearly 2.9% Thursday, a day after gaining 6% on news of it was being removed from the U.S. blacklist.Under the Trump administration, Chinese technology companies such as drone maker DJI and telecommunications equipment supplier Huawei were put on a trade blacklist out of concerns such companies might be security risks.U.S. companies and individuals are banned from dealing with companies on such lists or in some cases must seek special permission in advance.Companies like Huawei and DJI have both denied that they send any data to China, although China hawks say that such companies may be obliged to assist espionage efforts as stipulated in China’s national intelligence law.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-hails-removal-of-xiaomi-from-us-govt-blacklist-calls-move-beneficial-101620910150342.html
13-05-2021||World||Vaccine hesitancy rose in EU after pause in AstraZeneca Covid-19 shots||Vaccine hesitancy increased in the European Union after the suspension of AstraZeneca Plc’s vaccine, with more than a third of adults in the bloc indicating they were unlikely to get immunized from Covid-19.After several EU countries suspended use of Astra’s shot in mid March, 34% of respondents to an online survey by Eurofound said they were hesitant to take the vaccine. Before the pause, 25% said they were “rather unlikely” or “very unlikely” to get it.“These findings reflect a failure to deliver persuasive and clear communication regarding the efficacy and safety of vaccines,” Daphne Ahrendt, senior research manager at Eurofound, said in a statement Thursday. “Trust in vaccines is related to trust in institutions, and this is an issue primarily for policymakers, but we also all have a collective responsibility, across society, to ensure that we communicate and publish accurate and sound information on the safety and importance of vaccines.”The EU’s vaccine rollout got off to a slow start and was held back by concerns over rare blood clots possibly linked to Astra’s shot. The European Medicines Agency updated its guidance in April to include the condition as a possible side effect, but has said the vaccine’s benefits still outweigh its risks. Almost 30% of the EU’s population has received at least one dose, compared with 46% in the U.S., according to Bloomberg’s Vaccine Tracker.In the entire period of Eurofound’s survey across February and March, the vaccine hesitancy figure was 27%. Skepticism was highest in Bulgaria, with 61% of survey participants indicating misgivings, and below 10% in Denmark, Malta and Ireland. The U.K., which recently left the EU, has one of the lowest hesitancy rates in the world.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/vaccine-hesitancy-rose-in-eu-after-pause-in-astrazeneca-covid-19-shots-101620909320138.html
13-05-2021||World||Twitter picks up acquisition pace, driven by new product push||Twitter Inc. has stepped up its pace of acquisitions in recent months after years of languid deal-making, a change that reflects the social network’s stronger financial standing and a renewed effort to speed up the addition of new features.Last week Twitter announced the purchase of news reader service Scroll with a goal of adding the product to an eventual subscription offering for its social network. The deal was Twitter’s sixth announced so far this year, and the seventh since December.While many of Twitter’s transactions have been small and driven by a desire to quickly add more employees or technical expertise, Twitter’s activity this year is markedly different from 2017 and 2018, when the company completed just one public acquisition in two years. Twitter, which a few years ago was itself a buyout target, is also taking bigger swings, and has been part of the conversation around higher-profile deals since last year, including efforts to acquire Discord Inc., Clubhouse and even TikTok.The shift is part of a concerted push to launch products at a faster rate, following the admission from Chief Executive Officer Jack Dorsey in February that the company has been dragging its feet for years on new tools for its platform. Twitter set out to double its “development velocity” and the “number of features per employee” that affect revenue and user growth, and acquiring teams and products that align with the company’s plans bolsters that effort.“The pace has picked up as our hiring needs have picked up, as our clarity has picked up, as our investing levels have picked up,” Chief Financial Officer Ned Segal said of the acquisition strategy in an interview. “It shouldn’t surprise you or others to see our name mentioned around things big and small.” He declined to comment on specific deals.Twitter’s six purchases so far in 2021 -- less than halfway through the year -- are the most the company has made in a calendar year since 2015, when it publicly announced eight acquisitions. Many this year have been directly related to Twitter’s effort to build a subscription offering, which would generate revenue outside of the main advertising business.In addition to Scroll, Twitter acquired startup Revue with plans to build out a subscription newsletter business. Other employees added through deals this year are working on “super follows,” or letting Twitter accounts charge followers for special content or access. Twitter will eventually take a cut of these subscriber fees, providing the company with a more predictable revenue stream than its current advertising business.This focus on a specific product road map seems to be the most likely explanation for Twitter’s flurry of deal activity, said Mark Shmulik, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein. At Twitter’s Analyst Day presentation in February, the plan outlined was the “most put together and coherent” he’d ever seen from the company, he said.“It all starts with the clarity of ‘where is the North Star and how are we getting there?’” Shmulik said. “For a long time, they didn’t really have that.”Adding startups to help with new consumer features is the most likely reason for Twitter to make deals moving forward, said Mandeep Singh, a technology analyst at Bloomberg Intelligence. He pointed to commerce and augmented reality as industries where rival social media platforms like Facebook Inc. and Snap Inc. are currently invested.Singh also suggested that Twitter should look at advertising technology startups for possible deals. The company spent the past few years telling investors it plans to improve its direct response advertising business -- essentially helping advertisers drive specific outcomes, like an app download. Twitter could benefit from adding more employees or technology to help it catch up with competitors in this space. “That is one area where they would want to close the gap,” he said.Perhaps just as noteworthy are the deals Twitter hasn’t made, but has been interested in, which show the company is considering adding a new product outside of its core social media service for the first time in years.The company tried to acquire Discord, the video-game chat company that rejected a $12 billion bid from Microsoft Corp. last month. Twitter also attempted to buy the audio-chat app Clubhouse for $4 billion, and is now building its own rival product, called Spaces. The San Francisco-based social network was also one of the many interested companies bidding on TikTok’s U.S. operations last summer, though it is likely Twitter would have been a smaller partner in any transaction for the popular video-sharing app.It’s possible Twitter could benefit from the current regulatory climate. Facebook Inc. and Google, always considered top acquirers for any consumer technology deal, are both under intense antitrust scrutiny in Washington, making it less likely either company could get a sizable deal through the regulatory process. Facebook is confronting government threats to unwind its past deals for Instagram and WhatsApp.Twitter, which is much smaller than its digital advertising competitors, has almost $9 billion in cash or cash equivalents on its balance sheet, and a “board that’s supportive of our plan,” Segal said. Once a perpetual money-losing business, Twitter is now profitable.Still, Segal dismissed the idea that Twitter’s more aggressive stance on deals has anything to do with a weaker field of acquirers. “Even if the people with whom you are competing may change from one year to another, the amount of competition doesn’t change,” he says.It wasn’t long ago that Twitter itself was a possible takeout target after a dramatic internal restructuring, including the return of founder Dorsey to the helm in October 2015. At the time, Twitter was focused on downsizing as a means to attract a possible suitor. It laid off employees two years in a row, shuttered its video app Vine, and sold off its developer products to Alphabet Inc.’s Google.Buyout interest from a range of companies, including Salesforce.com Inc. and Walt Disney Co., failed to result in a deal, and Twitter was left with a smaller staff but fewer side projects left to distract them.And just because Twitter is exploring a big acquisition doesn’t mean it will land one. The main reason a Twitter deal for Discord never progressed is that the interest was one-sided, according to people familiar with the talks. Any deal for Discord, Clubhouse or ByteDance Ltd.’s TikTok would dwarf the company’s most expensive purchase ever -- a $479.1 million ad-tech deal for TellApart in 2015 -- and most of the acquisitions Twitter is making are so small that pricing isn’t required to be disclosed.“I don’t know if they’ve won the right or earned the right from investors to go down that path” to a multibillion-dollar deal, Shmulik said. If Twitter does stay active, he expects that it will go after companies that fit with product plans around creators and helping Twitter users make money from the service. “It’s all about reducing time to market,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/twitter-picks-up-acquisition-pace-driven-by-new-product-push-101620905710707.html
13-05-2021||World||President Biden lifts US ship mandate to ease gasoline shortages||The Biden administration temporarily eased century-old US shipping requirements to allow a foreign tanker to transport gasoline and diesel to fuel-starved areas of the country following the Colonial Pipeline outage.A waiver has been issued for a single company under the 101-year-old Jones Act, which stipulates goods transported between US ports be carried on ships built and registered in the US as well as crewed by American workers, Homeland Security Secretary Alejandro Mayorkas said in a Thursday statement.A White House official said Thursday that the waiver applied to a single tanker and other waiver requests are under consideration.The move is designed to address fuel shortages spurred by the cyberattack on the Colonial Pipeline, which shut down a major artery for gasoline, diesel and jet fuel across the U.S. East Coast. Even with fuel shipments resuming from around 5 p.m. New York time Wednesday, it’s unclear how long it will take for the network to return to normal.“This waiver will enable the transport of additional gas and jet fuel between the Gulf Coast and East Coast ports to ease supply constraints,” White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki said in a statement.Biden is also urging Americans “to just purchase what they need, and not hoard fuel, as supply is restored,” Psaki said. Gasoline stations from Florida to Virginia have reported running dry after Colonial was forced to take systems offline May 7, and pump prices soared above $3 a gallon for the first time in six years.While the government has temporarily lifted U.S. ship requirements to combat fuel shortages after major storms, including Hurricanes Sandy and Harvey, the issue is politically fraught. The Jones Act is championed by some of the nation’s biggest shipbuilders and vessel operators, as well as their allies on Capitol Hill. It also has the backing of a key Biden constituency in organized labor, including the Seafarers International Union.Waiving the requirements allows foreign-flagged tankers to fill the supply gap left by the interruption to the pipeline. It would take an estimated six to seven days for a tanker to carry fuel from the Gulf Coast to New York Harbor. A single cargo delivery into the U.S. East Coast is usually about 300,000 barrels.The company and tanker affected by the Jones Act waiver have not been identified.Under federal law, the U.S. could waive Jones Act shipping requirements if “necessary in the interest of national defense.” However, first, the Maritime Administration “would have to determine that qualified U.S.-flag vessels cannot meet the need,” said Charlie Papavizas, an expert in Jones Act law at Winston & Strawn LLP.The Maritime Administration completed a survey of available Jones Act-compliant tankers on Tuesday, though the results have not been made public.The American Maritime Partnership, a group that represents U.S.-flagged ship owners and has opposed efforts to scale back Jones Act protections, did not immediately respond to the administration’s move. Previously, Wednesday, the group’s president said it “does not object to a targeted approach to issuing waivers when there is a legitimate need and when such action does not reward those who would utilize foreign vessels to game the system at the expense of American jobs and national security.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/president-biden-lifts-us-ship-mandate-to-ease-gasoline-shortages-101620905675574.html
13-05-2021||World||China aims to re-use 60% of its trash by 2025||China aims to re-use 60% of its urban household waste by 2025, up from 50% last year, as it tries to improve its trash handling capacity after failing to meet some of its 2016-2020 targets, its top planning commission said on Thursday.Dealing with the growing volumes of waste has emerged as one of the biggest challenges facing China's regulators, with rising urban populations consuming increasing amounts of consumer goods and most major cities surrounded by rings of landfill.The National Development and Reform Commission (NDRC) said urban waste handling capacity reached 1.27 million tonnes a day last year, up 63% compared with 2015, but some places were still struggling to keep up with the growing volumes of trash.Half of China's cities had not built waste incineration plants, and many cities in central and western regions had also failed to meet targets on treating hazardous waste, the NDRC said.As well as raising the urban trash utilisation rate to 60%, China will also raise incineration levels to about 65%, up from 45% last year.China is now rolling out regulations making people sort their trash and is also steadily restricting single-use plastics and non-recyclable packaging waste. It has also banned imports of foreign waste.China has also launched various recycling schemes as well as a "waste-free city" programme aimed at tackling a solid waste treatment backlog estimated at up to 70 billion tonnes in 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-aims-to-re-use-60-of-its-trash-by-2025-101620901755453.html
13-05-2021||World||UK spending rises as consumers respond to return of travel, eating out||Spending on British credit and debit cards in the week to May 6 was 106% of its February 2020 level, up from 99% a week earlier as consumers spent more on travel, eating out and other activities that are being freed up from coronavirus rules.Other figures published on Thursday showed a net 7% of 34,940 firms surveyed by the Office for National Statistics reported an increase in turnover in March compared with March 2020.The proportion of the workforce on the government's job-protecting furlough scheme was 11% in the period between April 19 and May 2, down from a previous reading of 13%, the ONS said.Online job adverts jumped to 103% of their February 2020 level, up by 46 percentage points from early April which was just before the partial reopening of the hospitality sector.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-spending-rises-as-consumers-respond-to-return-of-travel-eating-out-101620895613175.html
13-05-2021||World||China sets up new health body after botched early Covid response||China announced a new disease prevention and control agency under the aegis of its top health body, in what is its biggest move yet to address gaps that caused critical delays in sounding the alarm about Covid-19 when it first emerged in Wuhan in late 2019.The new National Disease Prevention and Control Bureau will draft policies regarding infectious disease control and provide guidance on the surveillance of epidemics, among other public health mandates, state news agency Xinhua reported on Thursday.While no further detail was given, the new bureau will be headed by a long-time health official Wang Hesheng, who had been tasked to take over the crisis in Wuhan in early 2020 after the officials there were sacked. Wang’s appointment suggests that mistakes made during the Wuhan outbreak, in which local whistleblower doctors were initially reprimanded by police and information kept from the outside world, will inform the new body’s work.China has been criticised by the US and other countries for covering up the outbreak’s severity in its early days, which allowed the pathogen to spread around the world before governments realised. While Beijing has always denied that it hid information from the world, President Xi Jinping has called for efforts to reform the country’s public health system because it lacks the capability and nimbleness to deal with large-scale outbreaks.The unit is affiliated with China’s National Health Commission, which currently oversees the country’s Covid-19 response. The Chinese Center for Disease Prevention and Control -- chiefly a research body -- has provided technical guidance to the NHC.Xi last year urged Communist Party cadres and government officials to reflect on the “problems and shortcomings” exposed in China’s epidemic control. A key issue in Wuhan was that local officials and experts were not empowered to react to signs of emerging outbreaks quickly by alerting the highest levels of government or external health bodies like the World Health Organization. Instead, precious days were lost as information was bottlenecked in bureaucracy.One of Wang’s deputies will be top medical expert Shen Hongbin, whose research focuses on lung cancer. The other two are bureaucrats with extensive experience in managing hospitals and health-related emergency responses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-sets-up-new-health-body-after-botched-early-covid-response-101620901209290.html
13-05-2021||World||Over a quarter of EU adults would refuse Covid-19 shot: Survey||More than a quarter of adults in the European Union would be unlikely to take the Covid-19 vaccine when it was offered to them, a survey published on Thursday showed.The results also suggested a strong link between vaccine hesitancy and the use of social media, particularly where social media is the main source of information, according to Eurofound which carried out the survey."Unfortunately, these findings reflect a failure to deliver persuasive and clear communication regarding the efficacy and safety of vaccines," said Daphne Ahrendt, Eurofound senior research manager.Bulgarians were the most reluctant to get the vaccine, with 67% of adults saying they were unlikely or very unlikely to get it. In Ireland, only 10% of adults said they would not get the shot.The survey found an east-west divide across Europe. Except for France and Austria, the intention to get vaccinated was above 60% in all Western member states - with Nordic and Mediterranean countries, Denmark and Ireland having even higher rates.The rate of planned uptake in Eastern member states was much lower, ranging from 59% in Romania to 33% in Bulgaria.The main influence on vaccine hesitancy was the time spent on social media and which medium was used, the survey said. The proportion rises to 40% among those who use social media as their primary source of news.Among people who used traditional media including press, radio and television, only 18% of respondents were vaccine sceptics.The survey also found that students, employed or retired people were less vaccine hesitant than average, while 39% of unemployed people or those with a long-term disease of disability were more hesitant.The survey was conducted between February and March 2021, after a full year of living with Covid-19 restrictions across the bloc's 27 member states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/over-a-quarter-of-eu-adults-would-refuse-covid-19-shot-survey-101620897997279.html
13-05-2021||World||Giant mice plague forces Australia to turn to banned poison||Australia is looking to deploy normally outlawed high-grade poison to fight millions of mice, as farmers struggle to protect their crops from the worst rodent invasion in decades.Stomach-churning footage on social media showed carpets of mice scurrying across barn floors, crowded around machinery, and entering thick grain silos made of steel. There’s even been reports of farmers’ feet being bitten while they sleep.A viral video showed a giant vacuum sucking up the mice from storage containers, but methods to treat the intrusion have so far offered little respite for farmers.The crisis has prompted the New South Wales government to release A$50 million ($39 million) in funding to tackle the infestation it calls an economic and public health crisis. The state is asking the federal government for approval to use Bromadiolone, a potent pesticide that’s normally banned in the country.“It’s actually the strongest mouse poison we can get anywhere on the face of the earth that actually will kill these things within 24 hours,” said Adam Marshall, the state’s agriculture minister.Mouse numbers across the state have exploded after a bumper crop last season, which followed plentiful rains that broke a years-long drought. Though good news for farmers who endured years of disappointing crop yields, the sharp increase in grain volumes has provided more food for the pests.Mouse PooThe infestation that’s spreading quickly across New South Wales and Queensland state is causing havoc to crop yields and contaminating sorghum exports with animal droppings, causing quality downgrades and leading to canceled shipments of the grain.“From an export perspective, there’s zero to no tolerance on mouse poo,” said Nick Carracher, chief executive of Lachstock Consulting, an agricultural service and advice provider based in Victoria. “It’s very difficult to clean -- virtually impossible.”Contamination issues aside, there’s likely to be further fallout as farmers head into the next planting season for winter crops like wheat and barley. While Australia is predicted to see another fairly favorable harvest this season, the plague could dent those forecasts.Mice, which are partial to newly sown seeds, are likely to feast upon the upcoming crop before it even gets to germination stage.“Freshly sown crops are going to have lower germination because there’s bloody mice everywhere!” Carracher said. “That’s definitely a genuine threat in those areas.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/giant-mice-plague-forces-australia-to-turn-to-banned-poison-101620900289981.html
13-05-2021||World||China urges UN to act on Israel-Palestinian conflict||China on Thursday expressed a "high degree of concern" over deadly clashes between Israel and Palestinians and urged the United Nations Security Council to do more to de-escalate tensions and implement a two-state solution.The most intense hostilities in seven years have killed at least 83 people in Gaza and seven in Israel since Monday.On Friday the Security Council is to hold another emergency meeting after Tunisia, Norway and China urged the body to reconvene despite resistance from the United States, which acts as a diplomatic shield for ally Israel.An earlier emergency meeting held Wednesday ended without agreement on a joint statement due to opposition from the United States, diplomats said."China expresses a high degree of concern regarding the current situation between Palestine and Israel," said foreign ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying, adding that China was ready to draft and circulate a statement on behalf of the body."However, due to the obstruction of individual countries, no agreement has been reached so far," added Hua."The Security Council should take action, reiterate its commitment to and firm support for the two-state solution."One of five permanent members of the UN Security Council, China holds the rotating presidency this month.Beijing is often criticised by the United States for vetoing Security Council statements including when it blocked an attempt to condemn the military coup in Myanmar.Friday's expected meeting will be public and include participation by Israel and the Palestinians, diplomats told AFP Wednesday.US Secretary of State Antony Blinken said a US envoy would travel to the Middle East in an effort to calm tensions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-urges-un-to-act-on-israel-palestinian-conflict-101620897357153.html
13-05-2021||World||Taiwan, hit by power outage, aims to restore normal supply by evening||Tech powerhouse Taiwan started phased blackouts islandwide on Thursday after an outage at a coal- and gas-fired power plant, as the government said it was working to resume normal supply by evening.The world's biggest contract chipmaker, Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co Ltd, said some of its facilities suffered a "brief power dip", but power had now been restored.In a text message, the government said its grid did not have sufficient electricity capacity after the outage at the power plant in the southern port city of Kaohsiung.Several cities reported blackouts, the official Central News Agency said, as a top official appealed for calm."The government has a grasp of the situation," cabinet spokesman Lo Ping-cheng told reporters. "Citizens please remain calm and there's no need for panic."All units of the Hsinta power plant in Kaohsiung were shut after an "incident", Lo added, but did not give details or say what caused the outage.Utility Taipower said more than six million homes were hit by the outage, which it blamed on a technical failure at the power plant.The blackouts will run in rotation until 4:40 p.m. (0840 GMT), it said, with a decision on any extensions to be made later.The economic ministry said it was working to restore supply by evening. The main international airport near Taipei, the capital, and the high speed rail line were operating normally, the transport ministry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/taiwan-hit-by-power-outage-aims-to-restore-normal-supply-by-evening-101620897381163.html
13-05-2021||World||Thailand reports record Covid-19 infections after prison clusters||Thailand announced a daily record in new coronavirus cases on Thursday after clusters in two jails saw nearly 3,000 inmates infected, among them a leader of anti-government protests held while awaiting trial for insulting the king.Authorities reported 32 Covid-19 deaths and 4,887 infections, a new daily high in cases after 2,835 prisoners were added to the tally following the mass testing of thousands of inmates in two Bangkok jails.A corrections department official said those infected included Panupong "Mike Rayong" Jadnok, 24, who has been held since March 8 on charges that include sedition and insulting King Maha Vajiralongkorn.He was the fourth member of the youth-led movement charged with lese majeste to test positive in jail, or within days of leaving.Thailand is suffering its biggest outbreak so far, with overall cases tripling to 93,794 and deaths increasing fivefold to 518 in the past six weeks, after a year of success in containment.Human Rights Watch in a statement said inmates in Thailand should be better protected."Besides providing healthcare and virus testing, the authorities should reduce the detainee population through supervised release of those held on political motivated charges and minor offenses, or who face greater risk from underling health conditions," it said.Other infected protest leaders are Arnon Nampa and Chukiat "Justin" Sangwong, and Panusaya "Rung" Sithijirawattanakul, who tested positive a few days after her release on bail.A corrections official said Panusaya may have been infected at home as inmates around her had negative tests.The outbreak is challenging Thailand at a time when only 1.3 million people have been inoculated against the coronavirus.Authorities say all residents are eligible for free vaccination when mass immunisation starts from June, but Bangkok health official Parnrudee Manomaipiboon on Thursday said Thai citizens would be prioritised, with the aim of registering foreigners from August.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/thailand-reports-record-covid-19-infections-after-prison-clusters-101620896015193.html
13-05-2021||World||Shattered homes, dead relatives: Gaza residents ask, 'Where should we go?'||Screams and flying debris enveloped Umm Majed al-Rayyes as explosions hurled her from her bed in Gaza City. Groping in the dark, the 50-year-old grabbed her four children and ran as Israeli bombs struck their apartment building Wednesday, shattering windows, ripping doors to splinters, and blasting away concrete.While casualties mounted this week in the most severe outbreak of violence between Israel and the Gaza Strip since a 2014 war, al-Rayyes and other Palestinians in the line of fire faced an all-too-familiar question: Where should we go?“This whole territory is a tiny place. It's a prison. Everywhere you go, you're a target,” al-Rayyes said by phone from a neighbor's house, where she sought refuge with her teenage sons and daughters and a few bags of clothes after the Israeli airstrike that she says came without warning.In Gaza, a crowded coastal enclave of 2 million people, there are no air raid sirens or safe houses. Temporary United Nations shelters have come under attack in previous years of conflict. In the past two days, Israeli airstrikes brought down three huge towers housing important Hamas offices and some businesses after the Israeli military fired warning shots, allowing occupants to flee.Fighter jets also targeted without warning multiple residential buildings, located in teeming neighborhoods where Israel alleged militants lived. In all, more than 65 Palestinians have been killed in Gaza since Monday, including 16 children. Among the dead were both militants and civilians, including at least two women and children who died during the apartment building strikes.At a Gaza City hospital, distraught families told of pulling bloodied relatives from piles of rubble. One woman said her 4-year-old grandson and pregnant daughter-in-law were killed when an Israeli air raid hit their two-story building on Wednesday.“They bombed them without any warning. The house had nothing but the kids,” Umm Mohammad al-Telbani cried in the hospital morgue.The Israeli government long has accused Hamas of using civilians as human shields against retaliatory strikes; militants often launch rockets from civilian areas and set up command centers inside residential buildings. Yet Israel received heavy criticism for its tactic of bombing buildings during the 2014 war with Hamas.Recalling the horror of past wars, Gaza residents say they feel nowhere is safe. They also cannot leave the narrow territory, one of the world's most densely populated places. It has been under a crippling Israeli-Egyptian blockade since Hamas seized control in 2007. Along its borders, Gaza is encircled by sensor-studded fences, concrete walls, galvanised steel barriers, and the Mediterranean Sea, where Israel restricts boats from Gaza to some 16 nautical miles offshore.“There is nowhere to run, there is nowhere to hide,” said Zeyad Khattab, a 44-year-old pharmacist in Gaza City, who fled to the family home where he grew up in the central Gaza district of Deir al-Balah with a dozen relatives when bombs pounded his residential high-rise. “That terror is impossible to describe.”As Hamas and other militant groups fired hundreds of rockets into Israeli cities, including Tel Aviv, killing at least seven Israelis, worries grew that the latest violence could spiral into a protracted conflict. The Hamas barrages sent hundreds of thousands of Israelis running to bomb shelters across the country and hit numerous civilian targets, including a bus and a school in the city of Askhelon that was empty because authorities had ordered all schools closed.The people killed by the indiscriminate fire at Israeli population centers included three women and two children, spreading fear on both sides of the border.“There is always this undercurrent of anxiety, but this time is different,” Khattab said. Airstrikes shook the walls and windows of his apartment building during the devastating wars of 2008 and 2014, but the building that houses some 400 people collapsed on Wednesday.In any other year, Palestinians would be thronging the dusty streets of Gaza City this week ahead of the Eid al-Fitr holiday, one of the biggest and most joyous festivals on the Muslim calendar that marks the end of the holy fasting month of Ramadan. Markets would be hives of activity as shoppers stocked up on new clothes and pastries for feasts. Beachside restaurants would brim with families. Barbershops would be full of men getting fresh haircuts.Instead, shops stood shuttered and the city's streets were eerily empty. Almost nothing moves on the roads except for ambulances and Hamas security vehicles. Bombs thunder in the distance. Plumes of black smoke billow from stricken buildings. Residents walk by rubble-strewn stores and downed power lines, surveying the latest damage to a city already riddled with scars from intense clashes.“It's the same atmosphere of 2014,” Saud Abu Ramadan, a freelance journalist in Gaza City, said, referring to the bloody 7-week war that killed over 2,000 Palestinians, including hundreds of civilians, and inflicted widespread destruction on Gaza's infrastructure. “Warplanes are buzzing, and people are just trying to keep their heads down."This week's mayhem stemmed from clashes at the most sensitive place in Jerusalem, the revered plateau site of Al-Aqsa Mosque and the iconic golden Dome of the Rock. Analysts long have considered flaring tensions at the compound, sacred to both Muslims and Jews, to be the most dangerous accelerant to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/shattered-homes-dead-relatives-gaza-residents-ask-where-should-we-go-101620893087636.html
13-05-2021||World||On Eid, Xinjiang imams defend China against US criticism||Muslim leaders from the Xinjiang region rejected Western allegations that China is suppressing religious freedom, speaking at a reception Thursday for foreign diplomats and media at the end of the holy month of Ramadan.The event was the latest in a series of moves by the Chinese government to counter accusations of human rights abuses in Xinjiang. It came a day after human rights groups and Western nations demanded unfettered access for U.N. human rights experts to the region and U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken condemned China for “crimes against humanity and genocide against Muslim Uyghurs” during the release of an annual report on international religious freedom.The Uyghurs are a mostly Muslim ethnic group in Xinjiang, a remote northwest region where China has been accused of mass incarcerations, forced labor and forced sterilization in recent years as it imposed a strict security regime after a series of terrorist attacks.Echoing the government line, the president of the Xinjiang Islamic Association said China had eradicated the breeding ground for extremism by improving livelihoods, teaching people about the law and setting up vocational training and education centers. Foreign analysts say the centers are part of a detention system that has locked up an estimated 1 million people or more over time.Abdureqip Tomurniyaz, who heads the association and the school for Islamic studies in Xinjiang, accused anti-China forces in the U.S. and other Western nations of spreading rumors and lies.“They want to sabotage Xinjiang’s harmony and stability, contain China’s rise and alienate relations between China and Islamic countries,” he said.He also said the U.S. is turning a blind eye to its own human rights violations, citing the U.S. involvement in conflicts in Iraq, Afghanistan and other Muslim countries and anti-Muslim discrimination at home.Religious leaders from five mosques spoke at the 90-minute presentation, three in person and two on video. They all described prayers and feasting for Eid al-Fitr and rejected criticism of China's religious policies. Videos showed men praying inside mosques and people dancing in squares outside.Mamat Juma, the imam of the historic Id Kah mosque in the city of Kashgar, said that all ethnic groups in Xinjiang support the steps taken to combat terrorism. He said that people are grateful to the ruling Communist Party for restoring stability and promoting economic growth.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/on-eid-xinjiang-imams-defend-china-against-us-criticism-101620892955673.html
13-05-2021||World||Nepal's hospitals stop admitting Covid-19 patients due to scarcity of oxygen||Patients in Nepal are gasping for breath, as authorities said they were facing an acute shortage of medical oxygen due to which 16 people infected with Covid-19 died recently, according to media reports.The deadly virus has so far infected 413,111 people and claimed 4,084 lives in the country, which has a population of approximately 29.5 million.The government on Wednesday asked private hospitals to instal their own oxygen plants to meet the need of oxygen within 15 days, the Himalayan Times reported.According to the decision, all private hospitals with more than 100 beds will have to install their own oxygen plant and the government will provide the necessary support for this purpose.The Ministry of Health and Population said it was the responsibility of all the hospitals to set up their own oxygen plants."Since many private hospitals have not done so, we will help them set up the plant to meet the increasing demand of oxygen for Covid patients," said Dr Jageshwor Gautam, spokesperson for the ministry.The government has estimated that around 15,000 oxygen cylinders are required to meet the current demand for oxygen. In contrast, there are only around 8,000 oxygen cylinders in the country.Covid-19 Crisis Management Centre, an apex government body for dealing with the pandemic, during Wednesday's meeting, pointed out that the country might need 50,000 oxygen cylinders by July-end.Some government hospitals in the Kathmandu Valley on Wednesday said that they no longer had oxygen supply to treat Covid patients, but they had enough cylinders to fill oxygen, the report said.At least 12 hospitals in the Kathmandu Valley have announced plans to stop admitting Covid-19 patients for treatment due to shortage of oxygen, My Republica reported on Wednesday.“The hospital is facing an acute shortage of oxygen and the government is providing only 100 oxygen cylinders per day so we cannot admit any new Covid-19 patients to the hospital,” the Grande International Hospital in Kathmandu said.Various hospitals in the Bhaktapur district of the Valley are struggling to save the lives of Covid-19 patients due to the shortage of medical oxygen, the Himalayan Times reported.Many hospitals in the district have been flooded with patients following the second wave of the infection. Due to the shortage, many hospitals have refused to admit coronavirus patients.Meanwhile, in Rupandehi district of Nepal, a total of 16 Covid-19 patients died due to oxygen shortage on Wednesday, the Kathmandu Post reported.Seven patients died at Bhim Hospital of Bhairahawa, five at Butwal's Covid Special Hospital, and four at Bhairahawa's Universal Teaching Hospital.Most Covid-19 health facilities in Rupandehi have been reporting a shortage of oxygen supply since Tuesday.The hospitals providing treatment to Covid-19 patients had appealed to the government bodies seeking help and informing them about the catastrophic results if immediate steps were not taken.“Efforts are on to refill oxygen from Chitwan, Pokhara and Biratnagar excluding the production within the province. Liquid oxygen is also being ferried,” Shankar Pokharel, chief minister of Lumbini Province, posted on Facebook on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/nepals-hospitals-stop-admitting-covid-19-patients-due-to-scarcity-of-oxygen-101620890233276.html
13-05-2021||World||UK watchdog warns holiday companies over refunds as travel restarts||Britain's competition watchdog told package holiday companies on Thursday they must be ready to refund consumers if foreign trips this summer are cancelled by the coronavirus pandemic, after it received a barrage of complaints last year.The Competition and Markets Authority (CMA) said it had taken steps to remind package travel operators of their legal obligations over refunds, seeking to avoid what happened last summer when cancelled trips resulted in 23,000 complaints.TUI UK, one of Britain's biggest package operators, has already improved the information it provides to customers and made it easier for them to get their money back after a slap on the wrist from the CMA.Britain has said people can travel abroad again from May 17 but there are only a limited number of places where they can go without needing to quarantine on their return home. Portugal is the main holiday destination currently on the "green list"."We're calling on package holiday companies to make the refund process less hassle in the future," CMA chief executive Andrea Coscelli said in a statement.The CMA said action it had already taken had helped refund more than 200 million pounds ($281 million) to customers.Under package holiday rules, cancelled holidays must be refunded within 14 days and customers must be offered a refund, not just a credit note.Authorities are worried there could be more cancellations this summer as many holiday companies are currently selling vacations to countries such as Spain and Greece which are now on Britain's amber list for travel.According to the government, people "should not travel to amber list countries or territories for leisure purposes".On the Beach, an online travel agent, said late on Wednesday that it would not be selling holidays for travel until September given ongoing pandemic uncertainty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-watchdog-warns-holiday-companies-over-refunds-as-travel-restarts-101620890304381.html
13-05-2021||World||White House weighs evacuating Afghans as time runs out||The Biden administration is debating how to get thousands of Afghans who worked for the U.S. out of the country before American forces withdraw in a few months, amid fears that time is running out ahead of a potential Taliban takeover.White House national security aides have held several meetings about the issue in recent days to trade ideas, discussing options including a mass evacuation of thousands of people to a third country where they could be processed and brought to the U.S.The biggest concern for U.S. officials is that Afghan citizens who played an invaluable role serving American forces and contractors such as translators, consultants, office assistants and drivers would be quickly targeted by Taliban forces, especially if they continue to gain ground on President Ashraf Ghani’s government in Kabul.The likeliest scenario for the U.S. would involve extracting Afghans through an existing program called special immigrant visas -- which has a long backlog -- and allowing Afghan interpreters to seek refugee status, according to several people familiar with the matter. They asked not to be identified because no decision has been made.The White House is getting closer to presenting options to advocates and members of Congress impatient with President Joe Biden, who promised withdrawal from Afghanistan after 20 years of war and U.S. occupation. Biden’s spokespeople declined to comment.But with U.S. forces due to fully depart Afghanistan by Sept. 11, there’s little time left.Besides preventing a human tragedy, the Pentagon and Biden administration want to avoid recreating the most indelible image of America’s Vietnam War withdrawal: a long line of people desperate to leave the country gathered on a Saigon rooftop, waiting to board a helicopter. The April 1975 photograph was widely seen as emblematic of America’s defeat in a war that also lasted about two decades.About 35,000 Afghans meet the legal requirement for the special immigrant visa program, according to James Miervaldis of No One Left Behind, a nonprofit organization that helps with resettlement. The number includes about 9,000 people who worked directly for the U.S. military, plus their spouses and children, he said.The visa program doesn’t fall under the U.S. refugee cap, but its rules are narrow and stringent, and it already has a years-long backlog of more than 17,000 applicants, Miervaldis said. If the Biden administration were to open a pathway for Afghans through the U.S. Refugee Admissions Program, the qualifications are broader, but numbers would fall under the refugee quota.Understaffed EmbassyWhite House officials wrestling with the humanitarian dilemma include deputy national security advisers Russ Travers and Jon Finer and National Security Council aides Kristen Stolt and Katie Tobin.One challenge the administration faces: The U.S. embassy in Kabul is understaffed, while Department of Defense contractors who would normally process applications have either left as part of the U.S. withdrawal or are getting ready to do so.Planning efforts to help Afghans who worked with Americans started far too late, according to people inside and outside the administration. The coronavirus pandemic poses an additional challenge, making it harder for other countries to consider accepting possible refugees.More than 18,000 Afghans are waiting for their special immigrant visas, according to House Armed Services Committee Chairman Adam Smith and Representative Jason Crow, a Colorado Democrat who served in Afghanistan.Congress should increase the quota for visas, David Helvey, acting assistant secretary of defense for Indo-Pacific Affairs, said at a House Armed Services Committee hearing on Wednesday.But lawmakers won’t have the money to accommodate all the needed visas unless there’s an agreement to cut funding from elsewhere in the budget, Smith said.‘Special Responsibility’State Department spokesman Ned Price told reporters May 10 the administration had boosted consular staffing at the embassy in Kabul to handle more visas and the U.S. will “continue to look for ways to speed up this process.”“We have been acting with the utmost urgency knowing that, again, we have a special responsibility to the women and men who have, in many cases, placed themselves in harm’s way to assist the U.S. government over the years,” Price said.Top Pentagon officials say a Taliban victory in Afghanistan by year end isn’t inevitable, but the group controls a large swath of the country and has shown little interest in working with Ghani’s government.“The Afghan security forces can fight, and they are fighting for their own country now,” General Mark Milley, the head of the Joint Chief of Staff, said last week. “There’s a significant military capability in the Afghan government and we have to see how this plays out.”A Shanghai Cooperation Organization meeting in September will discuss the departure of foreign troops from Afghanistan, bloc Secretary General Vladimir Norov said Thursday at an event in Beijing to mark Eid al-Fitr.“We are now witnessing in northern Afghanistan rising terrorist activity,” he said. “With the withdrawal of foreign troops from the country, security and stability in Afghanistan will impact stability for Central Asia.”The U.S. has conducted mass evacuations from war zones in the past. About 140,000 people were evacuated from Cambodia and South Vietnam to Guam in 1975, according the General Accounting Office. In 1996, about 6,000 Iraqi Kurds were flown to Guam, and 20,000 Kosovar Albanians were airlifted to Fort Dix, N.J. in 1999, according to the Truman National Security Project.But there are potential bureaucratic complications and a risk of abuse in any new program.In January, the State Department imposed a 90-day pause on a program designed for Iraqis who helped the U.S. during the Iraq war after evidence emerged that a group of co-conspirators had falsified numerous applications over several years. Three people have been indicted in the case.Domestic immigration politics have also complicated the Afghanistan matter. Some Biden aides are sensitive to Republican accusations that their administration favors “open borders,” and the crisis on the southern border, where hundreds of thousands of migrants have tried to cross into the U.S. since the start of the year, is also weighing on evacuation talks, according to the people familiar with the matter.‘Moral Obligation’Matt Zeller, a fellow at the Truman Center and a retired Army major who served in Afghanistan and arranged for his interpreter to immigrate to the U.S., wrote in an op-ed in the Military Times on Tuesday that associates had recently briefed the National Security Council on the issue.“They walked away fearful the Biden administration was more concerned about the optics of an evacuation than doing our moral obligation,” Zeller wrote.Zeller said that an evacuation would require multiple flights per day for weeks on end from the Kabul airport. The urgency of an evacuation has risen, he said, after reports that the Turkish military may abandon an agreement to provide protection for the airport.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/white-house-weighs-evacuating-afghans-as-time-runs-out-101620881124938.html
13-05-2021||World||'Take a clear stance': Turkey rallies Muslim nations over Israel-Hamas conflict||Muslim countries must show a united and clear stance over Israel's conflict with the Islamist Hamas movement in Gaza, Turkey's vice president, Fuat Oktay, said on Thursday, criticising world powers for condemning violence without acting."What we desire is that active measures are taken," Oktay told reporters after morning prayers marking the end of the Muslim fasting month of Ramadan."There are decisions taken repeatedly at the United Nations, there are condemnations. But unfortunately, no result has been obtained, because a clear stance is not displayed."In several days of conflict, Hamas has fired volleys of rockets towards Israeli cities and Israel has launched airstrikes against the Islamist faction in the Gaza Strip.At least 67 people have been killed in Gaza since violence escalated on Monday, according to the enclave's health ministry. Seven people have been killed in Israel, medical officials said.With the conflict beginning to resemble the Gaza war of 2014, world powers have demanded de-escalation and the United States said it planned to send an envoy for talks with Israel and Palestinians.Turkey's president, Tayyip Erdogan, who has repeatedly condemned Israel's occupation of the West Bank and its treatment of Palestinians, said on Saturday Israel was a "terror state" after Israeli police fired rubber bullets and stun grenades at Palestinian protesters at Jerusalem's Al-Aqsa mosque.Oktay said Muslims had a responsibility to act."Everyone who does not display a clear stance against this is a party to this torment," Oktay said. "Unfortunately, when we look at the Muslim countries that do not display this unity and togetherness, everyone there who does not display a clear stance is a party to this."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/take-a-clear-stance-turkey-rallies-muslim-nations-over-israel-hamas-conflict-101620884243470.html
13-05-2021||World||'Better chances of winning lottery than getting vaccine shots': Race for jabs in 18-44 online slot||It's 2:00 am and Ananya Maskara's face is lit up by her smartphone as she nervously scrolls through a list -- looking for a green or yellow tab indicating that a Covid-19 vaccination slot is available in India's capital New Delhi.For anyone aged between 18 and 44, getting a slot in India's expanded vaccination drive -- already plagued by shortages and political squabbles -- has been like buying tickets for a rock concert where popular bands sell out in minutes."It was... a rollercoaster of emotions," the 19-year-old told AFP of her frantic, multi-day search to find a slot on India's online or app vaccination portals."It was really difficult... A lot of my friends haven't gotten a slot until now and they are still waiting."Maskara, like millions of younger Indians terrified by the current surge in infections, is rushing to get vaccinated against the coronavirus after the country this month opened up its inoculation drive to all adults.But the expansion came with restrictions, including only online registrations for the 18-44-year-olds, locking out up to half of India's population, particularly in poor and rural areas, who don't have smartphones or internet access.Numerous Indian states are also struggling with vaccine shortages, meaning there are limited slots available for the up to 600 million people in the 18-44 cohort now eligible for jabs.Maskara was eventually successful in finding a slot, but many others are still desperately searching."I have better chances of winning the lottery than getting a vaccination shot," grumbled one Mumbai-based Twitter user.So far, only three percent of India's 1.3 billion people -- or 39.5 million -- are fully vaccinated with both doses. An additional 10.6 percent have received just their first shot.- Hackathon -Techies have developed workarounds to help users in some cities where slots have been opening up at random times of day and are filled within one or two minutes.Berty Thomas, 35, a Chennai-based hobbyist programmer and business analyst, created a tool that alerts users via the Telegram messaging app when slots in their district open. It's already gotten more than 400,000 subscribers."My focus right now is to expand these alerts to multiple small towns and villages across the country," Thomas told AFP, adding that some users wanted to book for relatives in regional and rural areas."(Getting slots) has been an issue, particularly in the villages where internet is scarce. So the only way is... for people who have access to internet to help those who don't."Local media say some families have even travelled long distances to secure slots for their younger members.Devang Bhatt, 28, told AFP that after days of scouring the vaccine portal for a slot in Ahmedabad in the western state of Gujarat, he found one on the outskirts of the city."It was tiring, but worth it," Bhatt said of his vaccine trip.- No internet, no vaccination -But for Seema, a house-help working in the northern city of Lucknow in Uttar Pradesh state -- which has been ravaged by the virus -- getting vaccinated seems unlikely."I don't have access to the internet... A few boys in my neighbourhood do have smartphones but they don't know how to use it for this (registration)," the 40-year-old who goes by one name told AFP."(The government) should think about people like us. Every day I run the risk of exposing myself to the disease as I work for three households. I wish I could get myself vaccinated."Experts say that the government should allow walk-ins at vaccination centres -- a measure already introduced for people above 45 years old.Authorities should also consider "taking vaccines to the people rather than having people coming to the vaccines", Ashoka University physics and biology professor Gautam Menon told AFP. He suggested steps like mobile vaccination clinics in remote areas.For Mohendra Sharma, who doesn't own a mobile phone, such changes can't come soon enough."There needs to be a system for door-to-door vaccination. Those who don't have a smartphone -- what will they do?," the 26-year-old told AFP at a milk store in Delhi where he works."I am worried for my family and for myself if we don't get the vaccination."grk-str/lb||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/better-chances-of-winning-lottery-than-getting-vaccine-shots-race-for-jabs-in-18-44-online-slot-101620882260481.html
13-05-2021||World||China uses coercive policies in Xinjiang to drive down Uyghur birth rates: Report||Coercive policies in China's far western region of Xinjiang have led to a sharp decline in birth rates for Uyghurs and other minorities, which could add to evidence of genocide, an Australian think tank said in a report released on Wednesday.The Australian Strategic Policy Institute (ASPI) report, citing official Chinese data, said that there has been an "unprecedented and precipitous drop in official birth-rates in Xinjiang since 2017," when China began a campaign to control birth rates in the region.Xinjiang's birth rate dropped by nearly half from 2017 to 2019, and counties where the population was predominately Uyghur or another minority group saw much sharper declines than other counties, the government-funded institute said in the report.China's foreign ministry did not immediately respond to a request for comment. China maintains that changes in birth rates are linked to improved health and economic policy and it strongly rejects accusations of genocide.The ASPI analysis is based on Chinese government data, including regional population figures released in March."Our analysis builds on previous work and provides compelling evidence that Chinese government policies in Xinjiang may constitute an act of genocide," it said.The ASPI report said birth rates in counties with a 90 percent or greater indigenous population declined by an average of 56.5 percent from 2017 to 2018, far more than other regions in Xinjiang and China during the same period.Fines, internment, or the threat of internment, were among the methods used by authorities to discourage births, it said.There have been growing calls among some western states for an investigation into whether Beijing's actions in Xinjiang amount to genocide.The United States government and parliaments in countries including Britain and Canada have described China's policies in Xinjiang as genocide.According to the 1948 U.N. Genocide Convention, there would need to be proof of intent by Beijing to destroy an ethnic population in part to meet that determination.Rights groups, researchers, former residents and some western lawmakers say Xinjiang authorities have arbitrarily detained around a million Uyghurs and other primarily Muslim minorities in a network of camps since 2016.Beijing initially denied the camps existed but has since said they are vocational training centres designed to combat religious extremism, and that all people in the centres have "graduated".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-uses-coercive-policies-in-xinjiang-to-drive-down-uyghur-birth-rates-report-101620880544131.html
13-05-2021||World||Two foreign climbers die on Everest: Expedition agency||Two climbers from the United States and Switzerland have died on Mount Everest, becoming the first fatalities of this year's season, expedition organisers in Nepal said Thursday."Two climbers passed away on Wednesday," Mingma Sherpa of Seven Summit Treks told AFP.The Swiss climber died near the summit after reaching the top and was suffering from exhaustion, said Chhang Dawa Sherpa from the same organisation."We sent two additional Sherpas with oxygen and foods, unfortunately Sherpas couldn't save him," he said on Instagram.The American reached the Hillary Step but was helped back down after he suffered snow blindness and exhaustion, organisers said. He was able to reach Camp 4, but later died.In recent seasons, Everest has seen a surge in the number of climbers, leading to overcrowding that has been blamed for multiple deaths.To ease the crowding, Nepal's tourism ministry announced rules capping the number of people who could summit the mountain per window of suitable weather.The pandemic wiped out last year's season, but Nepal has eased quarantine rules to attract more climbers despite the difficulties of treating them if they contract the virus.The warmer weather that ushers in safer conditions for scaling Nepal's dangerous, snow-capped peaks has coincided with a deadly second wave of Covid-19 infections.Last week more than 30 sick climbers were evacuated from base camp although only two have been confirmed as having had coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/two-foreign-climbers-die-on-everest-expedition-agency-101620880099714.html
13-05-2021||World||UK PM says 'looking at solutions' for Covid-19 variant first identified in India||Prime Minister Boris Johnson on Wednesday said the Covid-19 variant first detected in India was of “increasing concern” in the UK and the country's health authorities are looking at all possible solutions as its case numbers continue to rise in parts of England.During the weekly Prime Minister’s Questions (PMQs) session in the House of Commons, he was asked about the variant – named B.1.617.2 and classified as a Variant of Concern (VOC) by Public Health England (PHE) – and told Members of Parliament that it may be "considerably more transmissible" than the dominant variant in the UK first detected in the county of Kent last year.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“We must be vigilant because the threat of this virus remains real and new variants pose a potentially lethal danger, including the one first identified in India which is of increasing concern here in the UK,” said Johnson."We are looking at all potential solutions for the surges we are seeing in Bolton and elsewhere including that, although that is not top of the list right now," he said, in response to a question on whether people in the most affected areas of Britain could be accelerated through the vaccination queue.The UK Prime Minister revealed there are now "860 or so" cases in England of the VOC detected in India, "but there may be more" as the variant "may be considerably more transmissible".The variant B.1.617.2 is one of three subtypes of the variant first detected in India and was designated as a VOC by PHE last week after over 500 cases were found in parts of England. It is among a list of variants, including those first found in South Africa and Brazil, currently being monitored as VOCs in Britain.So far, 127,890 lives have been lost and 4,455,446 people have been infected by the coronavirus in the UK, according to Johns Hopkins University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-pm-says-looking-at-solutions-for-covid-19-variant-first-identified-in-india-101620870196547.html
13-05-2021||World||'Israel has a right to defend itself', says US president Joe Biden as Gaza violence escalates||Fierce clashes between the Israeli military and rocket squads in the Hamas-ruled Gaza Strip spurred a concerted diplomatic push to end the most serious fighting to convulse the area since a 2014 war.“My expectation and hope are that this will be closing down sooner than later,” US president Joe Biden told reporters at the White House. “But Israel has a right to defend itself when you have thousands of rockets flying into your territory.”The US dispatched an envoy to the region and Egypt and Qatar sought to help broker a truce as relentless Israeli air raids and Palestinian rocket barrages sent the death toll climbing through the night on Wednesday. More than 60 Palestinians have been reported killed in Gaza and at least six people in Israel since the violence abruptly exploded late Monday.The bombardments continued unabated into Wednesday evening as Hamas unleashed a massive volley of rockets at metropolitan Tel Aviv, Israel’s commercial heartland, and the nation’s south that overwhelmed missile defenses. Sirens were heard also in the north. Netanyahu warned that “Hamas will pay a very heavy price for its aggression,” and a torrent of airstrikes followed, targeting military facilities, buildings used by the Islamic militant group, and key intelligence and military commanders.National Security Adviser Jake Sullivan spoke on Wednesday with Qatari Foreign Minister Mohamed bin Abdulrahman Al-Thani while Secretary of State Antony Blinken spoke with Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas after talking to Netanyahu and telling him it is “vital now to deescalate.”“Images that came out overnight are harrowing and the loss of any civilian life is a tragedy,” US Secretary of State Antony Blinken said Wednesday. “I’ve asked Deputy Assistant Secretary of State, Hady Amr, to go to the region immediately to meet with Israeli and Palestinian leaders.”Egyptian efforts to broker a cease-fire between Israel and Hamas have so far failed to lead to a breakthrough, several Israeli and Arab media outlets reported.Egypt’s Foreign Ministry said in a statement that the country’s foreign minister, Sameh Shoukry, had spoken to his Israeli counterpart, Gabi Ashkenazi, and emphasized “the need to stop the Israeli attacks on the Palestinian territories and on the importance of sparing the people of the region any further escalation and the use of force.”Israel reported in excess of 1,500 rocket strikes, including a new nighttime barrage in response to the assassination Wednesday of a group of Hamas military commanders. Hamas said more than 550 government and residential buildings had been targeted in Israeli raids.Israeli defense officials accused militants of using Gaza civilians as human shields by launching rockets from civilian structures such as schools and populated neighborhoods.‘Only the Beginning’Netanyahu warned that other senior militant commanders would be targeted for assassination. “It’s only the beginning,” he said at a Tel Aviv-area hospital where some of the Israeli wounded had been taken. “We will strike at them in ways they never dreamed of.”Military spokesman Lieutenant-Colonel Jonathan Conricus told reporters in a briefing that preparation for a ground maneuver “is not where we are at this stage.”The United Nations Security Council met for a second emergency session on the crisis for Wednesday, though the U.S. is so far holding up any statement.The hostilities spilled over from weeks of clashes between Israeli security forces and Palestinians in contested Jerusalem. The holy city, home to Jewish, Muslim, and Christian shrines, lies at the heart of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, and competing claims to it have underpinned the latest confrontation.“The occupation set this fire in Jerusalem and is responsible for any bombing that takes place,” Hamas leader Ismail Haniyeh said late Tuesday. “If the occupation wants to escalate, then the resistance is ready, and if it wants to stop, the resistance is also ready.”The violence has set off a wave of protests by Israeli Arabs in support of the Palestinians, and unprecedented clashes with Jews, and destruction of property in several cities. A curfew was imposed Wednesday in the central city of Lod, where Jews and Arabs live in a mixed community after Arab assailants set synagogues, shops, and cars on fire following the killing of an Arab resident by a Jewish man.Israel and Gaza have skirmished repeatedly since Hamas took control of Gaza in 2007, and have fought three wars, the last seven years ago.The current round has roots in tensions that have been festering since the beginning of the Muslim fasting month of Ramadan in April. Israeli restrictions on gathering at a traditional Ramadan meeting place outside Jerusalem’s Old City touched off the unrest, but after they were lifted, protests were rekindled by the threatened evictions of Palestinians from longtime homes in the eastern sector of the city that Israel captured from Jordan in 1967. The Palestinians and much of the international community consider East Jerusalem occupied territory.Fighting is flaring at a time when Netanyahu’s rivals are trying to piece together a government after the fourth election in two years, and it has already impeded those efforts.Mansour Abbas, head of the Islamist United Arab List faction, froze negotiations to join that potential coalition, citing the ongoing conflict. The lethal surge in violence has made it untenable for Abbas to join a Zionist-led government at this time, but he told Israel Radio on Wednesday that he’ll go back to talks once the fighting is over.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/israel-has-a-right-to-defend-itself-us-president-joe-biden-jew-arab-palestine-hamas-gaza-violence-101620876933789.html
13-05-2021||World||Religious, political events among factors behind Covid spike in India: WHO||The World Health Organisation has said a recent risk assessment of the situation in India found that “resurgence and acceleration” of Covid-19 transmission in the country had several potential contributing factors, including "several religious and political mass gathering events which increased social mixing".The WHO, in its Covid-19 Weekly Epidemiological Update, published Wednesday, said that viruses in the B.1.617 lineage were first reported in India in October 2020."The resurgence in Covid-19 cases and deaths in India has raised questions on the potential role of B.1.617 and other variants (e.g., B.1.1.7) in circulation,” the update said.WATCH: India receives Covid medical supplies from Germany, Finland and Greece"A recent risk assessment of the situation in India conducted by WHO found that resurgence and acceleration of Covid-19 transmission in India had several potential contributing factors, including increase in the proportion of cases of SARS-CoV-2 variants with potentially increased transmissibility; several religious and political mass gathering events which increased social mixing; and, under use of and reduced adherence to public health and social measures (PHSM). The exact contributions of these each of these factors on increased transmission in India are not well understood,” it said.The update said that approximately 0.1% of positive samples in India have been sequenced and uploaded to GISAID to identify SARS-CoV-2 variants. GISAID enables rapid and open access to epidemic and pandemic virus data.The WHO update said that "the prevalence of several VOCs including B.1.1.7 and B.1.612 sublineages increased concurrent to the surge in Covid-19 cases reported in India.""Since the identification of these variants through late April 2021, B.1.617.1 and B.1.617.2 accounted for 21% and 7% of sequenced samples from India,” the update said, adding that preliminary analyses conducted by WHO using sequences submitted to GISAID suggests that B.1.617.1 and B.1.617.2 have a substantially higher growth rate than other circulating variants in India, suggesting potential increased transmissibility compared.The update said that outside of India, the UK has reported the largest number of cases sequenced as B.1.617 sub-lineages, and recently designated B.1.617.2 as a “national variant of concern.”Giving a global overview of the Covid-19 situation, the update said that the number of new Covid-19 cases and deaths globally decreased slightly this week, with over 5.5 million cases and over 90000 deaths."While India continues to account for 95% of cases and 93% of deaths in the South-East Asia Region, as well as 50% of global cases and 30% of global deaths, worrying trends have been observed in neighbouring countries,” it said.The highest numbers of new cases were reported from India (2,738,957 new cases; 5% increase), Brazil (423,438 new cases; similar to previous week), the USA (334,784 new cases; 3% decrease), Turkey (166,733 new cases; 35% decrease), and Argentina (140,771 new cases; 8% decrease).The South-East Asia Region reported over 2.8 million new cases and just under 29,000 new deaths, a 6% and a 15% increase respectively compared to the previous week. This marks the ninth consecutive week the incidences of cases and deaths have been increasing in the region.The highest numbers of new deaths were reported from India (26,820 new deaths; 1.9 new deaths per 100.000; a 15% increase), Indonesia (1190 new deaths; 0.4 new deaths per 100,000; a 3% increase), and Bangladesh (368 new deaths; 0.2 new deaths per 100,000; a 34% decrease).Earlier this week, the B-1617 variant of the coronavirus, first identified in India, had been classified as a “variant of concern” at the global level by the World Health Organization (WHO).Dr Maria Van Kerkhove, Covid-19 Technical Lead at the WHO, said on Monday that the Epi team and WHO lab team has been discussing with the WHO virus evolution working group this variant and everything that “we know about it in terms of transmissibility and any studies that are being done in India as well as in other countries where this virus is circulating."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/religious-political-events-among-factors-behind-covid-spike-in-india-who-101620874768317.html
13-05-2021||World||Indian-American Congressman meets Kamala Harris over Covid-19 crisis in India||Congressman Ami Bera, the longest-serving Indian-American in the Congress, met Vice President Kamala Harris at the White House here to discuss the Covid-19 crisis in India."I appreciate the opportunity to speak directly with Vice President Harris about the ongoing Covid-19 crisis in India," Bera said a day after he joined a May 11 Congressional Asian Pacific American Caucus (CAPAC) meeting with Harris at the White House."During the meeting, I thanked the Biden administration for sending urgently needed resources to the Indian people, including funding, technical expertise, and vaccine doses," he said.Bera said he also commended Vice President Harris for her leadership in helping mobilise the Indian-American diaspora to deliver assistance to family and friends in India."I also shared my hope that the US will continue to be an active global leader in helping stop the pandemic in India and across the world. American leadership will be critical to saving lives and ending this pandemic once and for all," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/indianamerican-congressman-meets-kamala-harris-over-covid-19-crisis-in-india-101620871069837.html
13-05-2021||World||Israel-Palestine conflict: On the brink of a war?||The raging conflict between the Israelis and the Palestinians snowballed into a larger battle between the arch rivals as the Islamist group Hamas said that several of its top commanders were killed in Israeli airstrikes on Wednesday, including its military chief in Gaza City, Bassem Issa.Israel’s internal security agency, Shin Bet, named Issa as one of the four top Hamas militants who it said were killed.Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu addressed the killing, noting that he had warned that the lives of Palestinian militants in Gaza were at risk. “This is just the beginning; we’ll deliver them blows they haven’t dreamt of,” he said while visiting an Israeli girl wounded in a rocket attack at a hospital in the centre of the country.According to Shin Bet, besides Issa, the strike killed Jumaa Tahle, head of Hamas cyber command who was also in charge of improving rocket accuracy, head of research and munitions Jamal Zibde, and Hazem Hatib, the group’s chief production engineer.A dozen other members of the Hamas research and development division were also killed in a strike, Shin Bet said.Gaza militants have launched more than 1,000 rockets since Monday, according to Israel’s army, which has carried out hundreds of airstrikes on Islamist groups in the crowded coastal enclave of Gaza.Blinken sends senior US diplomat to MideastUS secretary of state Antony Blinken has said that he’s sending a senior American diplomat to West Asia to urge Israeli and Palestinian officials to de-escalate the conflict.Blinken told reporters he has instructed Hady Amr, the deputy secretary of state for Israel and Palestinian affairs, to travel immediately to the region.World powers call for immediate ceasefireCalls grew on Wednesday for an immediate de-escalation of violence after intense hostilities between the rivals.In Russia, President Vladimir Putin urged the warring factions to halt fighting in a call with Turkish counterpart Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who said the world needs to give Israel a “strong” lesson.British PM Boris Johnson urged Israel and the Palestinians to “step back from the brink”, tweeting, “The UK is deeply concerned.”Germany said Israel had a “right to self-defence” against deadly rocket fire by Palestinian militants. “The German government condemns these incessant rocket attacks from the Gaza Strip against Israeli cities in the strongest terms,” Chancellor Angela Merkel’s spokesman Steffen Seibert said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/israelpalestine-conflict-on-the-brink-of-a-war-101620857818922.html
13-05-2021||World||US safety agency opens probe of fatal Tesla crash in California||The National Highway Traffic Safety Agency (NHTSA) said on Wednesday it is opening a safety probe into a fatal May 5 Tesla crash in California amid growing concerns about the automaker's driver assistance systems.A Tesla crashed into an overturned truck on a highway near Fontana, California, killing the Tesla's driver and injuring the truck driver and a motorist who had stopped to help him, the California Highway Patrol said.The highway patrol report did not say whether the Tesla was operating on Autopilot, its semi-autonomous driving system, when the crash occurred. The Mack truck had crashed and overturned five minutes earlier, blocking two lanes of the highway, the report said.Tesla did not immediately respond to a request for comment.NHTSA said it previously had opened 28 special investigations into Tesla crashes, with 24 pending.Police in Texas last month said they believed an April 17 fatal crash near Houston occurred with no one in the driver's seat. A preliminary government report Monday said footage from the owner’s home security cameras showed the owner entering the driver’s seat and the passenger entering the front passenger seat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-safety-agency-opens-probe-of-fatal-tesla-crash-in-california-101620867438609.html
13-05-2021||World||EU countries urged to halt non-essential travel from India in view of Covid-19||The European Union's executive on Wednesday called on countries of the bloc to temporarily halt non-essential travel from India, to limit the spread of a Covid-19 variant.The European Commission said its proposal followed the World Health Organisation's proposal on Monday to reclassify the B.1.617.2 variant of Covid-19 found in India as a "variant of concern", raising the alert from a "variant of interest".Click here for full Covid-19 coverageEU countries should apply an "emergency brake" on non-essential travel from India, it said in a statement."It is important to limit to the strict minimum the categories of travellers that can travel from India for essential reasons and to subject those who may still travel from India to strict testing and quarantine arrangements," it added.Last week the Commission proposed that the EU's 27 member states ease Covid-19 travel restrictions from June to allow foreign travellers from more countries to enter the bloc, while keeping the option to quickly restrict travel from countries where the health situation deteriorates sharply.The member states have not yet adopted this recommendation but could individually opt to ban non-essential travel from India before it is adopted.India's coronavirus death toll crossed 250,000 on Wednesday in the deadliest 24 hours since the pandemic began and experts around the world have expressed concern the variant first identified there may be highly transmissible.The European Commission said limited exemptions should apply to its proposed halt to travel from India, including to those travelling for "imperative family reasons" or EU citizens and long-term residents.Those travellers should face additional health measures on arrival in the EU, such as strict testing or quarantine requirements, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/eu-countries-urged-to-halt-non-essential-travel-from-india-in-view-of-covid19-101620864467966.html
13-05-2021||World||US-approved vaccines effective against B1617 variant of Covid-19: Official||Covid-19 vaccines approved by the United States like Pfizer, Moderna and Johnson and Johnson have effectiveness against the B1617 variant of the virus that is predominant in India, which is experiencing one of the worst outbreaks of the pandemic, a top American health official said.The observation is based on the latest data about the variant and the three major vaccines approved by the United States, said Dr Francis Collins, Director of National Institute of Science.“The data is coming in, and it looks very encouraging that the U.S.-approved vaccines, the Pfizer, the Moderna, the J&J, do have effectiveness against this variant called B1617,” Collins told the media.“It's a little less effective in that case than some of the others, but it looks like it ought to be good enough to make Americans protected. And that's really a good thing to hear,” he said in response to a question.Early this week, the World Health Organization classified the B1617 SARS-CoV-2 variant, which was first detected in India, as a variant of concern. The WHO said that evidence showed B1617 was more transmissible.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/usapproved-vaccines-effective-against-b1617-variant-of-covid-19-official-101620862824820.html
13-05-2021||World||Biden signs cybersecurity executive order after Colonial Pipeline attack||US President Joe Biden signed an executive order on Wednesday that advances federal cybersecurity capabilities and encourages improvements in digital security standards across the private sector which has been hit by a spate of high-profile cyber attacks.The executive order establishes a series of initiatives designed to better equip federal agencies with cybersecurity tools. It follows a cyberattack against the Colonial Pipeline that caused some internal computer systems to be disabled with ransomware. This led Colonial to shut the pipeline, triggering fuel shortages and panic buying in the southeastern United States.On Wednesday, Atlanta-based Colonial said it "initiated the restart of pipeline operations at 5 p.m. ET."The order also requires that software companies selling to the government maintain certain cybersecurity standards in their products and report whether they themselves have been compromised by hackers. The requirement was first reported by Reuters in March.A senior administration official described the executive order as having a "very significant" impact on the government's ability to detect and respond to hacking incidents.The pipeline cyberattack is the latest in a string of high profile cyber incidents against U.S. companies and government agencies over the last six months.In December, a Russian supply chain hacking operation became public which burrowed into nine federal agencies. More recently, the government has been investigating a different hacking campaign with ties to China that affected five civilian agencies."It's hard to learn from each incident and ensure that broadly government and companies have information to protect themselves," said the official. "So, we have pushed the authority as far as we could and said anybody doing business with the US government will have to share incidents , so that we can use that information to protect Americans."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/biden-signs-cybersecurity-executive-order-after-colonial-pipeline-attack-101620862249674.html
13-05-2021||World||Israeli president warns of civil war as Jews, Arabs clash over Gaza||Israel's president warned of a civil war between the country's Arabs and Jews on Wednesday as fury and fear over shelling exchanges with Palestinian militants in Gaza ignited violence in Israel's streets.Appeals by religious and political leaders for calm, and police reinforcements and mass-arrests, appeared to do little to stem riots in several ethnically mixed towns. Israeli TV showed what it described as "near-lynchings" of Jewish and Arab motorists.The strife was touched off by sometimes violent pro-Palestinian protests by members of the Arab minority incensed at an Israeli air barrage launched on Gaza on Monday after Islamist Hamas-led militants fired salvoes of rockets across the border.A synagogue and cars were torched in the Tel Aviv suburb of Lod, motorists were stoned on some roads, and Palestinian flag-waving protesters scuffled with police in northern Haifa port.By Wednesday, police said the assaults appeared to be more by Jews against Arabs - including one seen on live TV as he was dragged from his car and pummelled by a mob in coastal Bat Yam.The broadcast on the top-rated Channel 12 cut to a phoned-in appeal by President Reuven Rivlin to "please stop this madness"."We are endangered by rockets that are being launched at our citizens and streets, and we are busying ourselves with a senseless civil war among ourselves," said the president, whose role is largely ceremonial.Israel's 21% Arab minority - Palestinian by heritage, Israeli by citizenship - is mostly descended from the Palestinians who lived under Ottoman and then British colonial rule before staying in Israel after the country’s 1948 creation.Most are bilingual in Arabic and Hebrew, and feel a sense of kinship with Palestinians in the occupied West Bank and the Gaza Strip. They often complain of systemic discrimination, unfair access to housing, healthcare, and education services.Israel's domestic unrest has been welcomed by Hamas, one of whose spokesmen urged Arab citizens to "rise up" against "our enemy and yours".Ayman Odeh, a senior Israeli Arab lawmaker, accused Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu's conservative government and potential far-right allies of inflaming ethnic tensions."We must not yield to this," Odeh said on Twitter. "A common struggle by Arabs and Jews is the response to the violent vision of Netanyahu, (Itamar) Ben-Gvir and (Bezalel) Smotrich."Netanyahu, however, issued a video statement in which he pledged to grant police emergency powers for a crackdown."This violence is not who we are," he said. "I don't care if your blood's boiling."In Lod, police imposed a rare night-time curfew. But Israeli media showed young Jewish men, some with bats, on the streets.Ibrahim, an Arab councillor with the Lod municipality, said: "What is happening now is (an) uprising that is going on (in) cities like Ramle, Lod, Jaffa, Acre and Haifa".He called events in Gaza and in Jerusalem - where Israeli police have clashed with Palestinians and Israeli Arabs at a mosque during the Ramadan holy month - a "red line".Another local Israeli Arab politician was more circumspect."We condemn that our people's solidarity and cohesion with our brethren in Jerusalem and the Gaza Strip is being channelled through acts of sabotage to public and private property," said Samir Mahamid, mayor of the northern Arab town of Umm al-Fahm.Benny Gantz, Israel's defence minister, called the Jewish-Arab violence "no less dangerous than the Hamas rockets"."We must not win the Gaza battle and lose at home," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/israeli-president-warns-of-civil-war-as-jews-arabs-clash-over-gaza-101620861017904.html
13-05-2021||World||Joe Biden speaks with Netanyahu amid Israeli-Palestinian clashes||President Joe Biden spoke with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu on Wednesday amid a surge of Israeli-Palestinian violence, which he said he believes is resolving itself.“My expectation and hope is that this’ll be closing down sooner than later,” Biden told reporters at the White House. “But Israel has a right to defend itself when you have thousands of rockets flying into your territory.”The most violent clashes between Israel and the Palestinians in years erupted earlier this week, with the militant group Hamas repeatedly firing rockets deep into Israel from the Gaza Strip and the Israeli military responding with air strikes. At least 56 Palestinians have been reported killed in Gaza and six people in Israel.The bombardments escalated sharply Tuesday evening as Hamas unleashed a massive volley of rockets at metropolitan Tel Aviv, Israel’s commercial heartland, and Israel’s south, overwhelming its missile defenses. Netanyahu warned that “Hamas will pay a very heavy price for its aggression,” and a torrent of air strikes followed, targeting military facilities, buildings used by the group, and key intelligence and military commanders.The U.S. is sending Hady Amr, the deputy assistant secretary of State for Israeli and Palestinian Affairs to the the region. Secretary of State Antony Blinken has also spoken to Netanyahu and told him it was “vital now to deescalate.”During his call with Netanyahu, Biden “condemned the rocket attacks by Hamas and other terrorist groups,” the White House said in an account of the conversation. The president conveyed “his unwavering support for Israel’s security and for Israel’s legitimate right to defend itself and its people, while protecting civilians.”Biden also told Netanyahu that the US encourages “a pathway toward restoring a sustainable calm.”He used the call to update Netanyahu on American officials’ recent diplomatic engagements with Egypt, Jordan, Qatar and Palestinian officials. They agreed to stay in touch in the days ahead and for their teams to continue close consultation, the White House said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/joe-biden-speaks-with-netanyahu-amid-israeli-palestinian-clashes-101620857564473.html
13-05-2021||World||Around 1,500 rockets fired towards Israel from Gaza this week: Israeli army||Around 1,500 rockets have been fired from Gaza into Israeli cities since hostilities escalated between Hamas militants and Israel earlier in the week, Israel's army said on Thursday.The Israeli Defence Force had said early Wednesday that 1,000 rockets had been launched from Gaza since Monday evening, but by early Thursday the number had leapt by roughly 500.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/around-1-500-rockets-fired-towards-israel-from-gaza-this-week-israeli-army-101620856674565.html
13-05-2021||World||CDC back use of Pfizer-BioNTech shot in kids||A group of medical experts said children ages 12 to 15 years old can safely take the Covid-19 vaccine made by Pfizer Inc. and BioNTech SE, opening an important new phase of the US immunization effort.The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention’s Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices voted 14 to 0, with one recusal, on Wednesday to support the two-dose vaccine’s emergency authorization after it was cleared by the Food and Drug Administration on Monday. CDC Director Rochelle Walensky must now sign off on the recommendation before it becomes final.The vaccine could be deployed to teens as soon as Thursday in a move that’s long been anticipated as paving the way for the mass vaccination of middle and high-school students before the next school year begins.“I’m very excited to have this vaccine approved for this age group,” said Camille Nelson Kotton, a panelist and infectious disease doctor at Massachusetts General Hospital, following the vote. “This is a really important issue for this summer, and also a very good way to provide better community immunity.”The vaccine has been available in the US for those 16 and older since mid-December. Other shots made by Moderna Inc. and Johnson & Johnson are only currently available to those 18 and older.In comments at the White House, President Joe Biden encouraged families to get their teenagers vaccinated now that they are eligible. He said more than 15,000 pharmacies in the US will be able to vaccinate this age group and doses also will be available in the offices of pediatricians and family doctors.“The bottom line is this: A vaccine for kids between the ages of 12 and 15 is safe, effective, easy, fast and free,” he said. “So my hope is parents will take advantage of the vaccine and get their kids vaccinated.”He also said that if teens are “on the move this summer, they can get their first shot in one place and their second shot in another.”Acting FDA Commissioner Janet Woodcock said in a Monday briefing that pharmacies and other distribution centers can now “extend down to the younger age group” since the clearance is for the same dose and formulation being administered to those 16 and up. Pediatricians, though, will need to make arrangements to deploy the shot given its ultra-cold storage requirements, she said.New York-based Pfizer and Germany’s BioNTech said in March that their two-shot vaccine was 100% effective in the 12-to-15 age group in a final-stage trial. The shot produced antibodies exceeding the level seen in vaccinated young adults, and didn’t result in any new or worrisome side effects.Nearly 60% of Americans have received at least one dose of a vaccine, according to Bloomberg’s Vaccine Tracker. But the nationwide campaign to get everyone to take the shot has begun to slow. The US is giving an average of 2.2 million shots a day as of Tuesday, down from 3.37 million about three weeks ago.Now, the next leg of the campaign is poised to begin. There are almost 17 million adolescents ages 12 to 15 in the US, according to the Kaiser Family Foundation, or 5.3% of the US population.“Socializing is a critically important part of a child’s development,” said William Gruber, a trained pediatrician who is Pfizer’s senior vice president of vaccine clinical research and development. “Just as the vaccine has proven liberating to adults, I fully expect the CDC to liberate adolescents.”At the same time, Covid-19 caused more adolescents to be hospitalized than the 2009 H1N1 pandemic, according to Sara Oliver of the ACIP Covid-19 Vaccines Work Group, and the virus is estimated to have been a top-ten cause of death among the age group in 2020 based on fatality data from the previous year.“There’s a misperception that kids aren’t impacted at all by Covid,” said Lee Beers, president of the American Academy of Pediatrics, in an interview. “Thankfully, death in children has been a rare event, but we’re seeing kids who have long-haul symptoms, and some with cardiac symptoms after being infected.”During the ACIP meeting, the CDC suggested a multipronged approach to vaccine implementation designed to improve access and equity. Those at the forefront of vaccination campaigns should use existing provider networks, they said, including mass vaccination sites and public health facilities while tapping both pediatric providers and family doctors.Co-administrationPreviously, the CDC has said people should wait two weeks between getting a Covid-19 shot and other immunizations based on an “abundance of caution,” rather than any specific negative outcome. On Wednesday, that recommendation changed, drawing some debate.The CDC’s Kate Woodworth said Covid-19 vaccines can be co-administered with other shots, an adjustment that could help boost adolescent immunization rates that have fallen during the pandemic. When non-Covid vaccines are given at the same time as other shots, extensive data has shown they work just as well and have similar adverse effects as when they’re administered individually, Woodworth said.However, it’s unknown whether people will react more strongly when Covid shots are combined with other vaccines. And some panelists said the policy shouldn’t be changed without seeing data specific to the Covid vaccines, particularly since the Pfizer shot and the vaccine made by Moderna Inc. use new technology.The CDC responded by saying providers could consider whether the patient is behind or at risk of becoming behind on recommended vaccines, as well as the reaction profile of the vaccines.Immune ResponseThe trials in the 12-to-15 age group were designed to focus on evaluating the immune response generated by the vaccine, rather than overarching efficacy, which is determined by comparing the number of Covid-19 cases accrued in the vaccine arm of the study to those seen in the placebo arm.Pfizer’s large, final stage study of those 16 and older included more than 40,000 participants. The adolescent trial of 12-to-15 year olds, in comparison, included 2,260 participants. That’s in part because the trial was powered to simply assess the immune response generated by the vaccine, rather than how effective it was in preventing symptomatic Covid-19. Many infected children also do not show symptoms of Covid.However, Pfizer began recruiting the younger adolescents in the late fall, even before it secured efficacy results from those 16 and older. That early enrollment work meant the drugmaker was actually able to evaluate the shot in teens over the holiday season, when new cases of the virus were surging in the US, Gruber said in an interview.No DeathsNo deaths were reported among any of the teen and pre-teen trial participants, and side effects were similar to those noted with adults. The most common were pain at the injection site, fatigue and headache, most of which resolved within a few days.Pediatric researchers are investigating whether Covid is becoming more severe for children now that variants are causing localized flare-ups. The rate of cases in young kids and early teens began surpassing that of those 65 and older in early April, and hospitalizations among children aren’t falling as quickly as for those 18 and older.The CDC is also investigating a rare but serious condition associated with Covid called multisystem inflammatory syndrome, or MIS-C. More than 3,000 cases had been identified by April 1, and the agency will soon update its tally.“Pediatricians are in an ideal position to be talking to parents about the vaccine,” Beers said, noting she expects pediatricians and family doctors to soon take on a bigger roll in the distribution process. “Vaccine delivery is a really important part of what we do. We have lots of experience answering parents questions.”Since 12-to-15 year olds will be given the same vaccine as adults, the regimen will be priced the same. In the US, the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine costs $39 for a full course. Currently, the shots are paid for by the US government, with no out-of-pocket cost for vaccine recipients.Meanwhile, Moderna has said that initial results from its trial of its Covid vaccine in adolescents ages 12-to-17 showed that it was 96% effective, with no serious safety problems identified so far. The company is still collecting data and is in discussions with regulators about amending its emergency use authorization to include teenagers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/cdc-back-use-of-pfizer-biontech-shot-in-kids-101620854243075.html
13-05-2021||World||Mob 'lynching of Arab' aired live on Israeli TV||Footage of a far-right Israeli mob attacking a man near Tel Aviv they believed to be an Arab was aired live on television Wednesday night, as the Israel-Palestinian conflict raged on.The shocking images show a man being forcibly removed from his car and beaten by a crowd of dozens until he lost consciousness.The attack, broadcast by public broadcaster Kan, took place on the seafront promenade of Bat Yam, south of Israel's commercial capital Tel Aviv.Police and emergency services did not arrive on the scene until 15 minutes later, while the victim lay motionless on his back in the middle of the street.Those in the crowd justified the attack by saying the man was an Arab who had tried to ram the far-right nationalists, but the footage shows a motorist trying to avoid the demonstration."The victim of the lynching is seriously injured but stable," Tel Aviv's Ichilov hospital said in a statement, without revealing his identity.Far-right lawmaker Betzalel Smotrich, head of the "Religious Zionism" party, said he was "ashamed" of the "atrocious cruelty" of the attack."Jewish brothers, stop! We cannot under any circumstances allow ourselves to take part in violent acts," he said.Israel's chief rabbi Yitzhak Yossef called for an end to attacks by Jews."Innocent citizens are being attacked by terrorist organisations, the heart is heavy and the images difficult, but we cannot allow ourselves to be drawn into provocations and aggressions," he said.Issawi Fredj, an Arab deputy from the left-wing Meretz party, said the images were a sign that the country was heading towards "civil war".Demonstrations by far-right activists broke out Wednesday night in several cities, leading to clashes with police and sometimes Arab Israelis.Police said they were responding to violent incidents in cities including Acre, Haifa and Lod.In Acre, a mixed Arab-Jewish town in northwest Israel, a Jew was seriously injured by stone throwers, police said."The rioters in Lod and Acre do not represent Israeli Arabs, the rioters in Bat Yam... do not represent Israeli Jews, violence will not dictate our lives," said opposition leader Yair Lapid, who is currently tasked with forming a government after March elections.Palestinian militants in Gaza have launched hundreds of rockets since Monday at Israel, which has carried out air strikes on the crowded coastal enclave.The most intense hostilities in seven years between Israel and Gaza's armed groups were triggered by weekend unrest at Jerusalem's Al-Aqsa mosque compound.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/mob-lynching-of-arab-aired-live-on-israeli-tv-101620852994871.html
13-05-2021||World||US airlines cancel flights to Tel Aviv amid escalating conflict||United Airlines, Delta Air Lines and American Airlines have canceled flights between the United States and Tel Aviv, according to data by flight tracker FlightAware, amid an escalating conflict in Israel.Israel said it killed 16 members of the Hamas armed wing in Gaza in a barrage on Wednesday, and Palestinian militants rained rockets into Israel in one of their most intense hostilities in years.United Airlines said it had canceled flights from Chicago and Newark, New Jersey to Tel Aviv on Tuesday and flights from San Francisco and Newark on Wednesday."We have issued a travel waiver to allow customers to adjust their travel through May 25 and will continue to monitor the situation," a United spokeswoman said.A spokesman for Delta, which flies to Tel Aviv from New York's John F. Kennedy International (JFK) airport, said it has issued a travel wavier for flights between Tuesday and Thursday and has "no determination about resumption at this juncture".American Airlines, which also flies between Tel Aviv and JFK, said it had rebooked customers due to fly on Wednesday and Thursday on alternative flights, without providing details, and had issued a waiver for travel scheduled through May 25.El Al Israel Airlines said earlier on Wednesday it stood ready to operate extra flights as required "to keep Israel's skies open." This could include special flights to repatriate Israelis stranded "in locations from which it is not possible to return home," it said in a statement.Israel on Monday briefly halted takeoffs from its main Ben Gurion Airport and diverted incoming flights after a Hamas rocket barrage on the Tel Aviv area. The country has a smaller airport in the South, called Ramon, designed to serve as a stop-gap should wartime threats force longer closures of Ben Gurion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-airlines-cancel-flights-to-tel-aviv-amid-escalating-conflict-101620852444607.html
13-05-2021||World||Hindu sect in the US accused of forced labour to build temple||US federal law enforcement agents conducted a court-authorised action at a sprawling temple complex of a prosperous and politically influential Hindu sect in New Jersey Tuesday after temporary workers brought from India filed a lawsuit alleging “shocking” violations of the most basic laws for workers, including those preventing forced labour.About 200 workers alleged they were paid less $1.20 an hour, which was the minimum federal wage way back in 1963, instead of the mandated ₹12/hour, in New Jersey’s Robbinsville. They said they were forced to work nearly 13 hours a day, all seven days a week; lived in crowded temporary shelters at the temple complex; were prevented from leaving the area unaccompanied; and were verbally abused as “worms” by their employers.Many of them identified themselves as Dalits.The temple -- being touted as the largest Hindu shrine in the US -- is being constructed by the Bochasanwasi Shri Akshar Purushottam Swaminarayan Sanstha (BAPS), which describes itself as a socio-spiritual Hindu organisation. Members of the sect, which has 3,850 centres around the world, call themselves Swaminarayan followers and are considered to be influential in political circles.According to the lawsuit filed in the US District Court, District of New Jersey, on Tuesday, the workers said that their employers’ actions “constitute forced labor, trafficking with respect to forced labor, document servitude, conspiracy, and confiscation of immigration documents in the course of and with the intent to engage in fraud in foreign labor contracting”.The class action lawsuit was filed by civil rights lawyers representing six workers of the temple as plaintiffs and 200 in all. The six plaintiffs are Mukesh Kumar, Keshav Kumar, Devi Laal, Niranjan, Pappu, and Brajendra; they say they are Dalits from Rajasthan.The Indian embassy in Washington DC is believed to have sought more information on the matter from relevant US authorities, according to officials aware of the developments.“This is a horrific case of worker exploitation and it is even more disturbing that it has gone on for years in New Jersey behind the temple’s walls,” said Daniel Werner, one of the lawyers representing the workers. “These workers were coerced through lies to come to the United States to work and then suffered tremendously – they were basically forced into servitude,” he said.The FBI said its agents conducted a “court authorised” action at the complex on Tuesday and on Wednesday it sought “any info or tips” pertaining to the order. The India Civil Watch International (ICWI) told news agency PTI that the FBI rescued around 200 workers, “most of them Dalits, Bahujans, and Adivasis” on Tuesday.The lawsuit said these workers were brought to the US between 2011 and now, on R-1 visa, which is meant for foreigners engaged in religious vocation and work. But at the temple, they “performed solely manual — not religious — labor”, the lawsuit said.They were recruited in India through agents and on arrival in the US — John F Kennedy airport in New York — their Indian passports were taken away to “prevent them from leaving”, according to the complaint.Once on the temple campus, the workers “were forced to live and work in a fenced, guarded compound which they were not allowed to leave unaccompanied”. They lived under the watchful eyes of security guards in BAPS uniforms and cameras “monitored and recorded” their activities. They were prohibited from speaking to outsiders and failure to obey rules could result in pay cuts, the lawsuit alleged.They were housed in “crowded trailers” at the temple complex and began working the day after arriving. They were paid approximately ₹31,000 to ₹35,000 (about $425 – $450) a month, the lawsuit said. They were each given $50 in cash and the rest was transferred into their Indian bank account. They were never given salary receipts.There was no response from BAPS to requests for comments. However, Kanu Patel, one of those named as defendants in the lawsuit, told The New York Times, “I respectfully disagree with the wage claim.” He also said he was not in charge of daily operations at the temple.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/hindu-sect-in-the-us-accused-of-forced-labour-to-build-temple-101620846157388.html
13-05-2021||World||World could have prevented Covid catastrophe: Pandemic panel||The catastrophic scale of the Covid-19 pandemic could have been prevented, an independent global panel concluded Wednesday, but a "toxic cocktail" of dithering and poor coordination meant the warning signs went unheeded.The Independent Panel for Pandemic Preparedness and Response said a series of bad decisions meant Covid-19 went on to kill more than 3.3 million people so far and devastate the global economy.Institutions "failed to protect people" and science-denying leaders eroded public trust in health interventions, the IPPPR said in its long-awaited final report.Early responses to the outbreak detected in Wuhan, China in December 2019 "lacked urgency", with February 2020 a costly "lost month" as countries failed to heed the alarm, said the panel.To tackle the current pandemic, it called on the richest countries to donate a billion vaccine doses to the poorest.And the panel also urged the world's wealthiest nations to fund new organisations dedicated to preparing for the next pandemic. 'Delay, hesitation and denial'Requested by World Health Organization (WHO) member states last May, the report, "Covid-19: Make it the Last Pandemic", argued that the global alarm system needed overhauling to prevent a similar catastrophe."We have identified failures at every stage and we do believe that it could have been possible to prevent this pandemic," panel co-chair and former Liberian president Ellen Johnson Sirleaf said."We cannot simply point to one individual who is ultimately responsible," she said.The report said the emergence of Covid-19 was characterised by a mixture of "some early and rapid action, but also by delay, hesitation, and denial."Poor strategic choices, unwillingness to tackle inequalities and an uncoordinated system created a toxic cocktail which allowed the pandemic to turn into a catastrophic human crisis."The threat of a pandemic had been overlooked and countries were woefully unprepared to deal with one, the report found.Sirleaf said: "The world had been warned that this would happen. This should never happen again. This must be the last pandemic to cause destruction on the scale we are witnessing today."Vaccine ultimatumThe panel said the WHO could have declared the situation a Public Health Emergency of International Concern (PHEIC) -- its highest level of alarm -- on January 22, 2020.Instead, it waited eight more days before doing so.Nevertheless, given countries' relative inaction, "we might still have ended up in the same place", said former New Zealand prime minister Helen Clark, the report's other chairwoman.It was only in March after the WHO described it as a pandemic -- a term that is not part of its alert system -- that countries were jolted into action.As for the initial outbreak, "there were clearly delays in China -- but there were delays everywhere", she added.In the near term, the panel said rich, well-vaccinated countries should provide the 92 poorest territories in the Covax scheme with at least one billion vaccine doses by September 1, and more than two billion by mid-2022.G7 industrialised nations should pay 60 percent of the $19 billion ($15 billion euros) required to fund vaccines, diagnostics and therapeutics via the WHO's Access to Covid Tools Accelerator programme in 2021, it added.Fellow G20 nations should provide the rest -- and while Clark said there were positive signs emanating from the whole group, she added: "The end of the pandemic sadly is not in sight".The WHO and the World Trade Organization should also get major vaccine-producing countries and manufacturers to agree voluntary licensing and technology transfers for Covid-19 vaccines, the panel said."If actions do not occur within three months, a waiver of... intellectual property rights should come into force immediately."Invest billions, save trillionsTo tackle future outbreaks and pandemics, the panel called for a Global Health Threats Council made up of world leaders, plus a pandemic convention.The G20 should also create an International Pandemic Financing Facility, able to spend $5-10 billion a year on preparedness, with $50 to $100 billion ready to roll in the event of a crisis."Ultimately, investing billions in preparedness now will save trillions in the future, as the current pandemic has so clearly illustrated," Clark told reporters."Do nations really want to go through all this again?" she asked.The panel also proposed an overhaul of the WHO to make it less cautious and give it more authority to send expert missions into countries immediately without waiting for their approval.WHO chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said he would work with member states "to build a stronger WHO and a healthier, safer, fairer future for all of us".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/world-could-have-prevented-covid-catastrophe-pandemic-panel-101620844988315.html
13-05-2021||India||Jaishankar discusses India’s needs for Covid-19 response with US Global Task Force||External affairs minister S Jaishankar on Thursday discussed India’s urgent requirements for its Covid-19 response, including oxygen and vaccines, during a virtual meeting with a group of CEOs of top American companies. Jaishankar interacted with the US Global Task Force on Pandemic Response, a country-specific group formed last month by CEOs of some 40 top American firms to help India fight the pandemic. “Interacted with the US Global Task Force on Pandemic Relief. Appreciate the participation of the CEOs and their support for India’s current efforts,” Jaishankar tweeted. “Discussed our priorities (oxygen, vaccines, pharmaceuticals) and the importance of effective supply chains. Underlined the global implications of a stronger India-US health collaboration,” he said in another tweet. “Meeting was an affirmation of our exceptional relationship. Deeply value the sentiments expressed,” Jaishankar added. There was no official word on the meeting or its outcomes. The US is among a growing list of countries that have provided equipment and supplies to help India cope with a devastating second wave of the pandemic that has seen Coronavirus infections surge well past the 350,000-mark for several days. The US Global Task Force is public-private initiative of the US-India Business Council, the US-India Strategic and Partnership Forum and the Business Roundtable. At a meeting held in Washington on April 26, the group pledged to provide 20,000 oxygen concentrators to India in the next few weeks. The task force acts as a unified platform for US businesses to mobilise and deliver resources to assist Covid-19 efforts in areas of the highest need around the world. Its initial efforts will focus on the pressing need for support in India, and it has been working in close collaboration with US and Indian officials to share information and coordinate efforts. The members of its steering committee include Alphabet Inc chief executive Sundar Pichai, Deloitte CEO Punit Renjen, Adobe Systems CEO Shantanu Narayan, Accenture CEO Julie Sweet, Amazon CEO Andy Jassy, Apple CEO Tim Cook, FedEx president Raj Subramaniam and IBM CEO Arvind Krishna. The countries that have delivered medical supplies and equipment to India include Russia, France, the UK, Germany, Australia, Ireland, Singapore, Portugal, Sweden, New Zealand, Kuwait and Mauritius.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jaishankar-discusses-india-s-needs-for-covid-19-response-with-us-global-task-force-101620930052477.html
13-05-2021||India||Covid virus has a right to live, says ex-CM Trivendra Singh Rawat. Barbs follow||Former Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat waded into a controversy on Thursday over his comments that Sars-Cov-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, “has a right to live”, triggering stinging barbs from opposition leaders who described his statement as not just insensitive, but also “foolish”.“If we talk philosophically, then Covid-19 virus is also a living organism which wants to live and has a right to live just like humans. However, we consider ourselves more intelligent than any other living organism. We are now after it and to escape, the virus is changing its form constantly,” Rawat told a local news channel in the course of an interview on the Covid-19 pandemic that has killed over 4,100 people in Uttarakhand, more than 258,300 across the country and has forced most states to impose strict restrictions.Also watch | Covid update: Orphans & child trafficking; Covishield dose gap; UPSC now in Oct﻿Rawat continued in the widely-circulated video clip. “Hence, we now have to keep our distance from it. It is also moving and we are also moving, but we have to move faster than it so that it gets left behind”.The Congress moved fast to take potshots at Rawat.“What Rawat, who was the state’s CM, has said, is nothing but foolish and nonsense. He has lost his mind and has no vision because of which he was replaced abruptly by his party,” Uttarakhand Congress vice president Suryakant Dhasmana said.“The virus is a living organism, so was Ravana, Kansa and Mahishasura. But they all were killed by different gods because they were destroying the world just like this virus which has killed lakhs... Rawat is just uttering sheer nonsense,” he said.This isn’t the first time that the former chief minister, who was abruptly replaced by TS Rawat in March this year, has been ridiculed for his comments. He stunned people in 2019 when he claimed that the cow is the only animal that inhales and exhales oxygen. In March this year, the BJP abruptly dropped him.AAP’s Uttarakhand spokesperson Amarjeet Singh Rana said Trivendra Singh Rawat’s remark was a reflection of his wisdom. “This shows his and the BJP leaders’ wisdom. They are making Uttarakhand a laughing stock,” Rana said.Rawat hasn’t issued a clarification on his comments yet.The BJP’s counter to the opposition’s barbs was a counter-attack, accusing the Congress and the AAP of indulging in a blame game rather than working for humanity in the pandemic.“The Congress is just playing a dirty blame game and sees negative in everything even in this pandemic while AAP is doing this just for cheap publicity as it has no political presence in the state,” said BJP’s media in-charge in the state Manveer Singh Chauhan.Uttarakhand state secretary of Indian Medical Association (IMA) Dr Ajay Khanna said, “Covid-19 virus is a living organism. But it’s killing people.” He did not elaborate but another IMA functionary, who spoke on condition of anonymity, called the statement an insult to people who have lost their lives to the virus.“It is really unfortunate for this country that when (the number of) dead bodies are increasing every day in this country, a leader like Rawat who has been the CM of Uttarakhand is saying that Covid-19 virus is a living organism and has a right to live. It is just shameful and an insult to all those who lost their lives to this lethal virus,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-virus-has-a-right-to-live-says-ex-cm-trivendra-singh-rawat-barbs-follow-101620928252274.html
13-05-2021||India||Assam NRC coordinator files plea in top court seeking re-verification of draft||The coordinator for the National Register of Citizens (NRC) in Assam, Hitesh Dev Sarma, has filed an application in the Supreme Court seeking a complete, comprehensive and time-bound re-verification of the updated draft as well as the supplementary list of NRC as some “glaring anomalies of serious nature” were detected in the process. The application sought re-verification to be done under the supervision of a monitoring committee preferably represented by a district judge, district magistrate and superintendent of police. While the updated NRC was released in August 2019, a draft of the list published in July, 2018 had excluded nearly 4 million of the 33 million applicants. “Out of the names of 4,007,719 people excluded from the draft NRC about 393,975 people didn’t file any claims and therefore their names are in the exclusion list of NRC. After some sample checks now and analysis of the names of those people who didn’t file claims on the basis of surnames only, it was found that 50,695 people were apparently eligible for inclusion in the NRC,” the application stated. “Out of this, 7,770 people are from Original Inhabitants category and 42,925 people are from other states. This figure may increase if detailed re-verification is done. For a flawless and complete NRC, names of these people have to be included in the final NRC, failing which the final NRC will lose its acceptability,” it added. The application added that some undeserving people may have been included in the NRC list by wrongly claiming to be Original Inhabitants of Assam. In Assam, as per the Assam Accord of 1985, anyone who has been staying in the state prior to March 24, 1971, or can establish lineage to people residing on or before that date is considered as an Indian citizen—a requirement also accepted for inclusion in the National Register of Citizens (NRC) of 1951, which was updated in 2019 as per SC directions and under its monitoring. Names of around 1.9 million people who failed to prove their or their ancestor’s residency in Assam on that date and those who were declared foreigners by foreigners’ tribunals (as well their relatives) were excluded from the NRC published in August 2019 The BJP has maintained that the updated NRC is faulty as it has included dubious people and excluded genuine citizens and needs to be re-verified. The process has remained stuck as the NRC office is yet to issue rejection slips to those left out, allowing them to file fresh appeals for inclusion in foreigners’ tribunals. The final NRC list is also yet to be published by the Registrar General of India. “Our view on NRC is very clear. We want 20% re-verification of the list in districts bordering Bangladesh and 10% re-verification in other districts. If after that, the NRC is found to be correct, the state government would accept it and take the process forward. But if the NRC is found faulty after re-verification, we would want the Supreme Court to view this issue critically,” Himanta Biswa Sarma said at his first press conference as CM on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-nrc-coordinator-files-plea-in-top-court-seeking-re-verification-of-draft-101620927112739.html
13-05-2021||India||Remdesivir black marketeers held in Kolkata, 100 mg vials sold for ₹25,000 each||The Kolkata Police on Wednesday night arrested three men and seized from their possession 132 vials of Remdesivir injections which they were trying to sell for ₹25,000 each, taking advantage of the demand-supply mismatch amid a sharp spike in Coronavirus infections in the state. The price printed on the 100 mg vials was ₹2700, said police officers, who conducted the raid. Incidentally, in late-April, major manufacturers such as Cipla and Cadila had reduced the price to ₹899 following the Centre’s intervention. Murlidhar Sharma, joint commissioner of police (crime), said on Wednesday night the police received a complaint from Shankar Singh, a resident of Gariahat in south Kolkata, regarding the black marketeers and arrested Raj Kumar Roy Chowdhury, Indrajit Hazra and Debabrata Sahoo from different parts of the city. They were charged under several sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Disaster Management Act. On May 2, Jay Asutosh Mittal, a resident of Bangur Avenue in north Kolkata, was arrested on a similar charge. Police recovered 18 vials of Remcor 100 mg injections from his possession. On Tuesday, the detective department of the Kolkata Police nabbed a man who was asking for huge amounts of money in exchange for hospital beds for Covid-19 patients. Sheikh Nasiruddin, the accused, used to call up unsuspecting people and identify himself as a civil servant. He was nabbed from Pujali in South 24 Parganas district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/remdesivir-black-marketeers-held-in-kolkata-100-mg-vials-sold-for-rs-25-000-each-101620926032058.html
13-05-2021||India||PM Narenda Modi expected to join G7 summit in UK virtually||Narendra Modi is expected to join the UK-hosted G7 summit in Cornwall next month virtually, the British government said on Thursday after India's Ministry of External Affairs announced that the prime minister would not be attending the meeting in person.Modi was invited by Prime Minister Boris Johnson as India is one of three guest nations to the June 11-13 summit, alongside Australia and South Korea, as part of Britain's Indo-Pacific foreign policy focus.The guest leaders would be invited to take part in certain sessions of the Group of Seven meeting, presided by the UK and made up of Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, US, and the European Union (EU).“We are of course disappointed that Prime Minister Modi will not be able to attend the G7 in person because of domestic coronavirus priorities, but we look forward to welcoming him to the summit virtually,” a UK government spokesperson said.“We will continue to work closely with India in the run up to and during the summit on our shared goals for the future,” the spokesperson said.Officials in Britain have indicated that they do not expect the change of travel plans to detract from any of the planned discussions at the meeting.On Tuesday, the Ministry of External Affairs confirmed that the COVID-19 situation in the country had led to Prime Minister Modi cancelling plans to travel to the UK.“While appreciating the invitation to the Prime Minister by UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson to attend the G7 summit as a special invitee, given the prevailing Covid-19 situation, it has been decided that the Prime Minister will not attend the G-7 Summit in person,” an MEA official spokesperson said in New Delhi.The move follows the G7 Foreign and Development Ministers Meeting held in London last week, where Minister of External Affairs S. Jaishankar participated as a guest of UK Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab.Most of his meetings took on a virtual form after members of the Indian delegation tested positive for Covid-19. The minister later tweeted to indicate that it had been a “false alarm”.“Good to be back home, all of us having tested negative for Covid. These are difficult times and false alarms do happen. Thank those who sent their good wishes,” Jaishankar said last week on his return to Delhi from London.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-narenda-modi-expected-to-join-g7-summit-in-uk-virtually-101620925199682.html
13-05-2021||India||Pro-actively looking for action on WhatsApp privacy rules issue: Centre||The government is "pro-actively" looking at best possible options around WhatsApp new privacy rules, a senior Ministry of Electronics and IT official said on Thursday.WhatsApp had set May 15 for its users to accept a change in privacy policy but later scrapped the deadline for users to accept the controversial update.The instant mobile messaging firm has also said that not accepting the terms will not lead to deletion of accounts.WhatsApp had faced severe backlash over user concerns that data was being shared with parent company Facebook."The ministry is cognisant of this problem. Today, Germany has banned this privacy policy of WhatsApp. The ministry is proactively looking at what we can do about it," MeitY Special Secretary and Financial Advisor Jyoti Arora said at an Assocham event.She was responding to concerns raised by a Jharkhand government official on people in rural areas being pushed to accept WhatsApp new privacy rules even though they are not aware of its impact on them.Arora during the event said the pandemic has pushed usage of digital services across the country and there is a need to have robust cybersecurity infrastructure."When you have a digitally fast-growing economy, cyber trust becomes a critical element to ensure that we are able to achieve the intended economic outcome by the use of technology," Arora said.She said that in 2020, the country's cybersecurity watchdog Indian Computer Emergency Response Team (CERT-IN) had reported that there were 3 lakh cyber incidents only in the digital banking which is a two-fold increase from 2018.She said MeitY has taken multiple initiatives for cybersecurity, including setting up of Cyber Swachhta Kendra" (Botnet Cleaning and Malware Analysis Centre) and sectoral CERTs in the area of finance and power."We have an integrated grid and all these grids are connected to all our generation systems whether they are nuclear plants or coal plants. A single major cyber incident can put the country in the darkness."We have to be up to speed to see that all these vulnerabilities are plugged and we are ahead of people who are trying to be in the damage need and, therefore, there is need for cyber experts," Arora said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/proactively-looking-for-action-on-whatsapp-privacy-rules-issue-centre-101620924635201.html
13-05-2021||India||Peak will come, Covid-19 can again emerge, says Centre||As the country battles the second wave of Covid-19, the government Thursday said the virus may emerge again and so preparations have to be made at the national level in collaboration with states, infrastructure needs to be ramped up while curbs and appropriate behaviour must be followed.Dismissing allegations that the government was unaware of the intensity of the second wave, NITI Aayog member (health) Dr V K Paul said, "We kept warning again and again from this platform that the second wave of Covid-19 will come.""It was said that the sero-positivity is 20 per cent, 80 per cent of the population is still vulnerable and that virus has not gone anywhere and other countries were also witnessing a resurge."At a press conference, Paul said, "The prime minister had conveyed the country about the emerging second wave on March 17 without creating panic and had said that we have to fight it."Also Read| More than 2 billion doses of Covid-19 vaccines to become available in India soon"Was such a peak expected," he said, "well, no modelling can predict the size of a peak as the unexpected behaviour virus is well known.""So peak will come, the virus can again emerge, we know. So preparations have to be made at country level in collaboration with states, infrastructure has to be ramped up, containment measures have to be implemented and Covid appropriate behaviour has to be followed."We had not created panic... other countries have faced multiple peaks after all it's a pandemic," he said.He said it is the nature of the disease that it will ultimately go to villages.This epidemiology is well known, Paul said as he urged people to follow Covid appropriate behaviour and embrace vaccination.Joint secretary in the health ministry Lav Agarwal said that plateauing in daily new Covid-19 cases and a slight decline positivity rate have been recorded in the country over the past three days, but added 10 states still have a positivity rate of more than 25 per cent which was "worrisome trend".He said as many as 12 states have more than 1 lakh active Covid-19 cases, while 24 states have more than 15 per cent case positivity rate. Also Read| PM Modi to interact with DMs of 100 districts with high Covid-19 caseloads"There are 10 states --Goa, Puducherry, West Bengal, Karntaka, Haryana, Rajasthan, Chandigarh, Himachal Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh and Odisha where the Covid-19 case positivity rate is more than 25 per cent while there are eight states including Delhi, Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra and Kerala where it is more than 20 per cent, which is a worrisome trend," he said.  He, however, said the number of districts with week-on week rise in Covid-19 tests, yet decline in positivity rate has increased from 125 in April 22-28 to 338 between May 6 and 12.  Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Rajasthan,Chhattisgarh, Bihar, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Karnataka, Goa and Telangana were among 20 states and union territories showing continued plateauing or decrease in daily new Covid-19 cases.Kerala, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal,Punjab, Assam, Odisha, Himachal Pradesh, Pudusherry and Manipur were among 16 states and union territories showing continued increasing trend in daily new Covid-19 cases and remain area of concern.There 316 districts showing an increasing trend in Covid-19 cases since last two weeks while 187 districts have relatively shown a decline in Covid-19 cases during the same period , he said.India has been reeling under a catastrophic second wave of the coronavirus pandemic. On Thursday, the country added 3,62,727 new coronavirus infections, taking the Covid-19 tally of cases to 2,37,03,665, while the death toll rose to 2,58,317 with 4,120 daily fatalities, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated this morning.The active cases have increased to 37,10,525 comprising 15.65 per cent of the total infections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/peak-will-come-covid-19-can-again-emerge-says-centre-101620924736247.html
13-05-2021||India||Kerala CM writes to PM Modi again, seeks oxygen amid rising Covid-19 cases||With the Covid-19 health crisis deteriorating steadily in Kerala, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Thursday rushed another letter to Prime Minister Modi seeking additional 300 tonnes of medical oxygen on an urgent basis. This is the third letter the CM has written to the Prime Minister in 10 days. “We have capacity to generate 212 tonnes daily but experts have said the oxygen demand will rise to 426 tonnes in view of rising Covid-19 cases. Besides this, a low pressure is also forming fast in the Arabian Sea and it is likely to take cyclonic proportions. So we have to get prepared,” he said in the letter. A red alert was sounded in five districts in view of the cyclonic storm.Kerala has reported another high on Thursday clocking 39,955 cases with a test positivity rate (TPR) of 28.61 per cent. Two districts have reported TPR above 30 per cent-- Ernakulam 32 and Malappuram 38. And in some places in these districts, the TPR is above 50 per cent, health ministry data shows.With the active caseload rising, the government has given directions to all district administrations to build makeshift hospitals to meet the influx of patients. They have been asked to take the help of state and central public sector units in their districts. So, many schools, colleges, hostels and stadiums have been turned into temporary hospitals to meet the surge.In one of the worst–affected districts in Ernakulam the country’s largest temporary Covid-19 hospital is coming up in Ambalavayal in Kochi with 1500 beds with direct oxygen supply from the nearby Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited (BPCL) plant. Ernakulam district collector S Suhas said the first phase of the hospital with 500 beds has opened to patients and it will be fully functional by next week.“We deliberately chose the place for the makeshift hospital because of the proximity to the BPCL plant. We will have direct oxygen supply from the plant and it will save enough time in transportation and logistics,” said the young collector. In several parts of the country the delay in supply of oxygen cylinders and technical glitches resulted in many deaths,” he said. “We are fighting hard to contain the surge. But this new hospital, the largest with 1500 oxygen beds, will be a game changer. We can contain the fatality rate considerably in the district,” he said. The BPCL has the capacity to deliver 2 tonnes of medical oxygen daily and it can be raised after gauging the need. The district administration has also appointed 400 nurses and other medical workers for the new hospital.One of the worst-hit districts in the second wave--- in Ernakulam eight local self-governing bodies like Chellanam and Thrikkakara have a test positivity rate (TPR) of 50 per cent and in urban areas it is around 30 per cent. “The high TPR is a concern but we are doing our best to bring down numbers. Cases are increasing due to the presence of strong mutants and we are trying to perk up the recovery rate to control the influx,” a senior health official said adding that only serious patients who need oxygen will be admitted to the new hospital in Ambalavayal. A commercial hub Kochi has a sizeable population of workers from other states especially the north east.A close look at the health ministry data shows that in the last two weeks there has been a steady rise in cases and fatality rate. On Thursday when 1,39, 656 people were tested 39,955 tested positive. The state also reported 97 deaths taking the total fatality rate to 6,150. The active caseload also rose to 4,38,913. Among the 14 districts, in 10 districts the TPR is above 20 per cent. The state is currently under a lockdown till May 16 and it is likely to be extended.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-cm-writes-to-pm-modi-again-seeks-oxygen-amid-rising-covid-19-cases-101620924831910.html
13-05-2021||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||Opening up Covid-19 vaccination to everyone over the age of 18 and making vaccines available in the open market are both good ideas.There is very significant vaccine hesitancy across India. Things have improved, but a large number of people, even in states with high levels of literacy and awareness, still don’t want to be vaccinated; Tamil Nadu is a case in point. Universal eligibility (anyone over the age of 18; vaccines are still being tested on the younger population) is therefore the surest way of reaching a critical number of vaccinations even as the Centre and state work on overcoming vaccine hesitancy.India has an estimated 940 million people over the age of 18. Experts say that vaccines will start having an impact on infection rates when 40% of the eligible population has been vaccinated, if even partially, as long as non-pharmaceutical interventions (the wearing of masks, social distancing, a ban on large events) continue. That’s 376 million people. India has so far administered vaccines to around 125 million people (98.6 million have received one dose and 26.7 million both doses). It needs to vaccinate around 250 million more people.Also read | Covid-19: What you need to know todayOpen-market access may perpetuate inequity but it will mean that those who can afford and have access to private health care facilities will scramble to get vaccinated, helping take the number of those vaccinated closer to that 375 million mark.If this approach seems too focused on the number, it is because that is the only proven way to crush the pandemic. The Centre and the states should, even as they work on removing vaccine hesitancy, also work to remove the inequity in the distribution of the vaccine — but forsaking the open market approach because it perpetuates inequity will end up being counterproductive in the short term.The real problem is supply.India clearly does not have enough vaccines at this point in time. This may change over the next few months, with enhanced capacities at both Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech kicking in, and imports of Sputnik V, but there’s still a lack of information on the timing and quantities involved. It would help to have details of exactly how many doses SII and Bharat Biotech will produce every month (for at the least the next six months). Half of these will be given to the Centre for the vaccination of people over the age of 45, and the other half will be available for purchase by the states, private hospitals and enterprises, and, exports (both companies have contractual export commitments).Also read | Covid-19: What really mattersBased on publicly available information, for the next few months, this split is likely to be 40-50 million for the first (Centre), and 40-50 million for the second (states, private channels, exports). It is expected to become 55-75 million for the first, and 55-75 million for the second after that (the wide range is because we do not have complete information on the capacities of the two companies from June or July).And the real problem is the prioritisation and optimisation of supplies. Again, SII, Bharat, and as and when imports of Sputnik V are available, the vaccine’s distributor in India Dr Reddy’s, will have to transparently state how they are going to prioritise and phase orders across states, private buyers and exports.If all this information is available, then all the states (and Union territories) have to do is to solve the fairly basic optimisation problem they are presented with, assuming an upper bound to the number of vaccinations that can be carried out in a day.At a national level, given the experience of Phase 1 and Phase 2 of the vaccine drive, it may not be possible to administer more than five million doses a day (and this can be cascaded down into targets for each state and Union territory).To avoid confusion, the Centre, the states, and the vaccine makers/suppliers will have to sit down together and solve this optimisation problem — and then launch Phase 3 of the drive (a launch on May 1 is impossible and impractical). They can throw another important variable in the mix that can help them reach the 375 million number sooner — extending the time between two Covishield doses to 10-12 weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-what-you-need-to-know-today-101620923256279.html
13-05-2021||India||‘We were prepared for 3rd phase of Covid-19 vaccination, but..’: Chhattisgarh CM||Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel said on Thursday that the state was prepared for the third phase of the vaccination drive against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) from May 1 after Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s announcement, but the vaccine doses are still unavailable. Under the third phase of the vaccination drive, doses are being administered to beneficiaries between 18-44 years.“On May 1, we got 150,000 doses and on May 9, we received the second consignment of only 350,000 doses. Now neither the Centre nor the vaccine manufacturers are able to tell when we will get more doses,” Baghel was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.He also pointed out that the state government placed orders for vaccines with the Serum Institute of India (SII) as well as Bharat Biotech. “But the consignments are arriving in the state at the behest of the Centre. There is no specific information on when we will get the doses,” the chief minister said.Also Read| Chhattisgarh launches new portal to vaccinate those without mobile, internetChhattisgarh, which is currently seeing a downfall in its daily Covid-19 disease cases, has till now vaccinated over 5.94 million beneficiaries of which 4,957,168 have received the first dose and 984,556 have been inoculated with both doses. On May 9, the state government announced that journalists, lawyers, employees of the state government and state public sector undertaking (PSU) employees will be treated as frontline workers and will be vaccinated on priority.Underlining the fact that vaccination is essential to combat Covid-19, CM Baghel told news agency ANI the drive to administer doses should be sped up in view of the potential third wave of the pandemic.Also Read| Positivity rate down in Chhattisgarh but surge in infections in rural areas“Money is needed for vaccination. All states are carrying out their duties. But the way in which the Centre gave free vaccines to healthcare and frontline workers, this should have been decided for common citizens too,” Baghel said, adding that the free vaccination for common citizens was left to the states, who decided they cannot leave their people just like that.“State governments have decided to bear this burden. Unfortunately, vaccine availability is at minimum. In this situation, vaccination for everyone seems far-fetched,” the Chhattisgarh CM told ANI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/we-were-prepared-for-3rd-phase-of-covid-19-vaccination-but-chhattisgarh-cm-101620922758266.html
13-05-2021||India||Amid Covid surge, Uttarakhand looks at sugar mills to increase oxygen production||Uttarakhand minister Swami Yatishwaranand has asked officials to rope in sugar mills to start producing oxygen to augment the supply of the life-saving gas in view of the rising Covid-19 cases in the state.Two sugar mills in Haridwar have already agreed to the proposal, the minister for sugarcane development and sugar industry said.In a letter to ministry secretary Chandresh Kumar, Yatishwaranand cited the example of Osmanabad in Maharashtra where an oxygen plant is being run at a sugar factory and asked him to start work in that direction in Uttarakhand too.The minister said he had spoken to the management of the Dharashiv Sugar Mill in Osmanabad and also collected information about a dozen sugar mills that are running oxygen plants in neighbouring Uttar Pradesh.Quoting Uttar Pradesh Sugarcane Minister Suresh Rana, Yatishwaranand said oxygen plants can be set up easily in sugar mills producing ethanol.Two sugar mills in Haridwar district, Laksar Sugar Mill and Uttam Sugar Mill, that produce ethanol have already agreed to producing medical grade oxygen, Yatishwaranand said, adding that the additional production of oxygen will help a lot in the current Covid-19 situation.Uttarakhand is grappling with the second wave of Covid-19 at every level, Chief Minister Tirath Singh Rawat had said on Wednesday while flagging off trucks carrying 80 metric tonnes of oxygen sent by the Centre to different places in Kumaon and Garhwal divisions of the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-covid-surge-uttarakhand-looks-at-sugar-mills-to-increase-oxygen-production-101620919361858.html
13-05-2021||India||18 wild elephants killed in Assam’s Nagaon district probably due to lightning||Eighteen wild elephants have been killed, most probably due to lightning, in Assam’s Nagaon district, officials informed on Thursday. “The incident took place at Bamuni area of Barhampur on Wednesday. Our officials got to know about it on Thursday. Teams of forest and veterinary officials are at the spot to take stock of the tragedy,” Nagaon, deputy commissioner Kavitha Padmanabham said. The deaths took place in an area with small hillocks and forests. Officials suspect the elephants, which were part of a herd, were staying close to each other when lightning struck. While four bodies were found at the bottom of a hillock, 14 others were found at the top. “Preliminary investigation of the spot suggests lightning could be the reason for the deaths. All the elephants killed were adults and sub-adults,” Vasanthan, divisional forest officer (Nagaon), said. “We are trying to recover all the bodies and conduct post-mortem. The exact cause of the deaths would be known only after the results are out, most likely by Friday,” he added. Wildlife experts confirmed that the incident was the single largest instance of deaths of wild elephants in one go. They also suspected that there could be other reasons as well for the deaths. Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma has expressed shock and anguish at the deaths of the elephants and directed forest and environment minister Parimal Suklabaidya to visit the spot immediately.“A tragedy of such scale is unheard of in Assam. It is a big loss. While lightning has been suspected to be the cause, mass poisoning of the pachyderms shouldn’t be ruled out,” said Bibhab Talukdar, noted elephant expert and CEO of Aaranyak, a Guwahati-based wildlife NGO. “Assam has witnessed poisonings of wild elephants in the past, though not on such a large scale. I hope a thorough probe is done to know the exact cause behind the deaths,” he added. According to a 2017 census, Assam (5719) has the second highest number of elephants in India after Karnataka (6049). Every year, several elephants are killed in man-animal conflict due to electrocution, poisonings etc. In 2019, the number of such deaths was nearly 80.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/18-wild-elephants-killed-in-assam-s-nagaon-district-probably-due-to-lightning-101620919311849.html
13-05-2021||India||'Nothing can compensate for the loss': Israel official offers help to family of Kerala woman killed in rocket attack||Israel’s deputy chief of Mission to India, Rony Yedidia Clein, said on Thursday that the family of Soumya Santosh, who was killed in a rocket attack by Hamas, will be taken care of by the Israeli authorities.“The family will be taken care of by the Israeli authorities in compensation for what happened, although nothing can ever compensate for the loss of a mother and wife,” Clein was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Clein also said that she has been in touch with the family of Santosh from Kerala, who died during a rocket attack in the Israeli city of Ashkelon. Clein extended her condolences to Santosh’s husband, adding that Israel will help in flying her mortal remains back to India.“We've been in touch with the family. She was talking to her husband when this happened and I can imagine how horrendous it's for the husband. I can only sympathise with what he must be feeling,” Santosh told ANI.Thirty-two-year-old Soumya Santosh, who hailed from Idukki, had been working in Israel for the last seven years. She was employed as a house help at a Jewish household in Ashkelon at the time of her death. On Tuesday afternoon, during a video call with her husband back home, the building she was residing in was hit by a rocket fired by Hamas.“She was complaining about the worsening situation and I heard a huge explosion. When I called her after ten minutes there was no answer,” her husband told HT.Israeli ambassador Ron Malka had reached out to Santosh’s family on Wednesday, to extend his condolences to her near ones. Malka drew a parallel between Santosh’s nine-year-old son Adon and Moshe Holtzberg, a Jewish boy who survived the 26/11 siege of Chabad House but lost both his parents, and the tragedies they both suffered at a young age."My heart goes out to her 9-year-old son, Adon, who has lost his mother at such a young age and will have to grow up without her. This evil attack reminds me of little Moses, who also lost his parents during the 2008 #Mumbaiattacks. May God give them strength and courage," Malka tweeted.The on-going conflict between Israel and Palestine started after clashes on May 7 at the revered site of Al-Aqsa Mosque in Jerusalem's Old City.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nothing-can-compensate-for-the-loss-israel-official-offers-help-to-family-of-kerala-woman-killed-in-rocket-attack-101620918877951.html
13-05-2021||India||News updates from HT: Bengal guv Dhankar visits post-poll violence hit areas, and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.'Destruction of democracy': Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankar after visiting areas hit by post-poll violenceWest Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar visited Sitalkuchi in the Cooch Behar district, where four people were killed in firing by Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) during fourth phase of assembly polls on April 10. The governor said that he is shocked to see condition in the area in the wake of post-poll violence. Read morePunjab joins COVAX to procure Covid-19 vaccines at affordable pricesThe Punjab government joined the Covid-19 Vaccines Global Access (COVAX) initiative to procure Covid-19 vaccines globally at the best price, becoming the first state in India to do so, chief minister Amarinder Singh’s office announced on Thursday. The decision to join COVAX alliance was taken during a virtual Cabinet meeting, chaired by the chief minister. Read moreKerala orders ban on fishing till May 17 in wake of cyclonic stormThe Kerala state disaster management authority (SDMA) announced on Thursday that fishing will be banned near the coast of the state till May 17 in wake of a low pressure area over southeast Arabian Sea and the adjacent Lakshadweep area which is like to intensify into a cyclonic storm by May 16 (Sunday). Named ‘Tauktae’, it will be the first cyclonic storm of 2021. Read moreBihar extends Covid-19 lockdown: What’s allowed and what’s notBihar chief minister Nitish Kumar announced on Thursday that a state-wide lockdown, in effect since May 5 to curb the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), is being extended by 10 days, till May 25. Originally scheduled to end on Saturday, the lockdown will enter extended phase from May 16 onwards. Read moreRamesh Powar appointed head coach of Indian Women’s Cricket TeamThe Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) on Thursday appointed former Indian cricketer Ramesh Powar as the head coach of Indian Women’s Cricket Team. The Indian cricket board had advertised for the post and received over 35 applications. Read moreDell XPS 13 9310 review: The Intel 11th-gen eye-candyDell’s XPS laptop lineup has always been an eye-candy for those who want a beautiful looking piece of hardware that runs Windows. However, the same focus has been given to the power underneath all that metal chassis as well. Read moreRadhe Your Most Wanted Bhai movie review: Salman Khan's torture of a film is among his worst everIt takes some doing to make a film, that leaves one wondering, if it would really have been that bad if the pandemic took you out last week. With Radhe: Your Most Wanted Bhai, Salman Khan brings yet another deadly wave of cringeworthy one-liners, cheap CGI action, and a senseless story that are a torture to sit through. Read moreExplained: How Israel-Palestine hostilities peaked & the human cost of violenceViolence has escalated between Israel and Palestine in the last few days. Rockets streamed out of Gaza towards Israeli cities and the Israeli Army pounded the territory in retaliation with air strikes. This has been by far the most severe outbreak of violence since 2014. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-bengal-guv-dhankar-visits-post-poll-violence-hit-areas-and-all-the-latest-news-101620916876175.html
13-05-2021||India||Maharashtra records less than 50,000 new Covid-19 cases for 5th day in a row||Maharashtra reported 42,582 new coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases and 850 deaths on Thursday which took the total tally in the state to 5,269,292 while the death toll reached 78,857. A total of 250,398 people were tested in the state in the past 24 hours and the total number of recoveries in the state stood at 4,654,731 as 54,535 people were discharged, the bulletin showed.The state, which has consistently reported a high number of Covid-19 infections and remains the worst affected state in the country due to the second wave of the pandemic, added 46,781 new cases on Wednesday and 816 related deaths. On Tuesday, the state reported 40,956 cases while on Monday, 37,236 new cases were logged by the state.Read more: Maharashtra to compile database of mucormycosis to assess its spreadMaharashtra’s capital Mumbai reported 1,952 cases on Thursday and 68 deaths which took the total number of cases in the city to 683,185 and the death toll to 14,040. On Wednesday, Mumbai added 2,104 new Covid-19 cases and 66 fatalities.With the aim to contain the spread of the infection, the Maharashtra government on Thursday extended the ongoing restrictions in the state till June 1, 7am. The existing lockdown in the state was supposed to end on May 15.State health minister Rajesh Tope said on Wednesday that the measures taken by the government have resulted in a decline in Covid-19 cases in the state."The strict measures under the 'Break the Chain' directives introduced by the Maharashtra government have definitely brought down the number of Covid-19 cases, but the curve is not stable yet. There are some 12-15 districts in the state that have shown a decline in Covid-19 cases," Tope said.Read more: Kolhapur with highest Covid fatality rate in Maharashtra; experts visit cityTope cautioned that some districts in the state have still been reporting high number of cases. and therefore are a cause of concern for the government."We need to focus on these districts more. The positivity rate is still not below 10 per cent. These are the reasons why cabinet ministers are in favour of extending lockdown in the state," Tope added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-records-less-than-50k-new-covid-19-cases-for-5th-day-in-a-row-101620908448976.html
13-05-2021||India||MBBS brother of Glasgow suicide attacker offers to treat Covid-19 patients in Tihar||Dr Sabeel Ahmad – the brother of June 2007 Glasgow airport suicide attacker Kafeel Ahmed, currently lodged in Tihar Jail for allegedly trying to establish Al-Qaeda in the Indian Sub-continent (AQIS) as well as for recruiting for Lashkar-e-Taiba, has approached a Delhi court seeking permission to provide his medical expertise in treating Covid-19 patients in jail. Sabeel stated in his application before Additional Sessions Judge Dharmender Rana at Patiala House Courts that he is a qualified MBBS doctor with seven years of experience in management/treatment of critical cases. HT has reviewed his application, filed on Wednesday. “His experience and expertise of being a medical professional would be helpful for dealing with the surge in Covid-19 cases and treatment of inmates in Central Jail, Tihar,” said his lawyer M S Khan. Sabeel, 39, a resident of Bengaluru, was convicted for 18 months in the Glasgow attack case for withholding information from the authorities about his brother’s suicide mission and was deported to India in 2008. In 2010, he went to Saudi Arabia and started working at King Fahad Hospital. According to investigation carried out by Indian agencies, while in Saudi Arabia, Sabeel, also known as ‘Motu Doctor’, was providing logistical and financial support to LeT and was also in touch with some terror suspects based in Pakistan. It is alleged that the LeT members had planned to attack Hindu leaders, some prominent journalists and government officials in Bengaluru, Hubli, Hyderabad and Nanded. Sabeel was also convicted in Riyadh in a case of collecting donations allegedly for operating a school in India and for storing some items which had the potential to harm public order. He stayed in a prison in Saudi Arabia from February 9, 2016 till August 28, 2020, the day he was brought to New Delhi on deportation. In its charge sheet against Sabeel, filed on February 22 this year, the NIA has stated that Sabeel was in touch with Shaheed Faisal, one of the suspects in the LeT case, who is believed to be in Pakistan. HT has reviewed the NIA charge sheet. He was brought to India on deportation from Riyadh on August 28 last year and was put under arrest by the National Investigation Agency (NIA). Delhi Police’s Special Cell also arrested him in February this year in a conspiracy case of AQIS alleging that he played a role in arranging logistics and finances for arrested wanted terrorists in India and abroad. Advocate M S Khan said – “The two investigation agencies – Delhi Police and NIA –themselves are not on the same page. Is he a LeT operative or AQIS? There is no evidence against Sabeel Ahmed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mbbs-brother-of-glasgow-suicide-attacker-offers-to-treat-covid-19-patients-in-tihar-101620917571458.html
13-05-2021||India||India welcomes shipment of 10,000 rapid testing kits from Korea||Highlighting the continuing cooperation with the Republic of Korea, India welcomed the shipment of 10,000 rapid testing kits from the country that arrived on Thursday evening, said the Ministry of External Affairs spokesperson Arindam Bagchi. Bagchi said on Twitter, "Our continuing cooperation with the Republic of Korea. Welcome the shipment of 10000 rapid testing kits from the Republic of Korea that arrived today."The first flight just landed at the airport at 16:30 hrs, carrying 10,000 rapid testing kits. These medical supplies will be donated to the Indian Red Cross Society for further distribution to hospitals and healthcare centres in the country.The government of the Republic of Korea is continuing with its emergency medical support to India to help it fight the surge in Covid-19 cases in the country. Three more special flights, containing 100 portable oxygen concentrators, 10 ventilators, 100 negative pressure carriers, and 10,000 antigen detection kits (for 250,000 tests) are arriving at IGI Airport, New Delhi.Earlier the Korean government had sent two planeloads of medical supplies--230 oxygen concentrators, 200 oxygen cylinders, and 100 negative pressure carriers--on May (9 and 12).Korea stands side by side with India in this hour of turmoil and will continue to extend its helping hand in fighting the menace of Covid -19 in the country. In the coming days, more medical supplies will arrive from Korea.As India fights against COVID, global support poured in to support the country in its medical crisis. Several countries have sent oxygen cylinders, oxygen tanks, medicines, PPE kits, and raw materials for the manufacturing of vaccines.The total positive cases in the country so far stand at 2,37,03,665. This includes 1,97,34,823 recoveries and 2,58,317 reported deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-welcomes-shipment-of-10-000-rapid-testing-kits-from-korea-101620913736798.html
13-05-2021||India||Kerala orders ban on fishing till May 17 in wake of cyclonic storm||The Kerala state disaster management authority (SDMA) announced on Thursday that fishing will be banned near the coast of the state till May 17 in wake of a low pressure area over southeast Arabian Sea and the adjacent Lakshadweep area which is like to intensify into a cyclonic storm by May 16 (Sunday). Named ‘Tauktae’, it will be the first cyclonic storm of 2021.Officials told news agency PTI on Wednesday that a fisherman from Anchuthengu - a coastal town in Thiruvananthapuram district - died after he was struck by lightning while fishing on Tuesday night.Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Thursday also advised fishermen to not venture into the sea and added that the state will witness heavy rainfall in the next few days. “Extremely heavy rainfall has been predicted in the next few days by the IMD. Yellow and Orange alerts have been issued in several districts from May 14-16,” the chief minister’s office (CMO) tweeted.Also Read| ‘Tauktae’ likely to be an intense cyclone as oceanic conditions favourable, warn scientistsAccording to a list shared by the state government, yellow alert has been issued for the capital city Thiruvananthapuram and Malappuram, while Kollam, Idukki, Kottayam, Ernakulam, Alappuzha and Pathanamthitta districts have been placed under the orange alert.CM Vijayan also urged everyone to follow safety guidelines issued by the Kerala SDMA. The state disaster management authority has urged all those living in coastal areas and landslide prone areas to exercise precautions. Authorities have been ordered to open up relief camps in adherence to all coronavirus disease (Covid-19) protocols, PTI reported. People have been advised by the SDMA to avoid travelling in high-range (hilly) areas during night time.In view of the cyclonic storm, Vijayan requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi to immediately provide at least 300 metric tonnes (MT) of oxygen to Kerala from neighbouring storage points in order to increase the storage of the life saving gas in hospitals treating Covid-19 patients. In a letter addressed to PM Modi, the chief minister said that due to the cyclonic storm, there might be disruptions in the electricity supply to oxygen concentrator plants and filling stations. Road transport will also get disrupted "which would impede timely oxygen supply necessary to save lives", he said in the letter to the Prime Minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-orders-ban-on-fishing-till-may-17-in-wake-of-cyclonic-storm-101620915980961.html
13-05-2021||India||Asaram seeks bail for Ayurvedic treatment, HC hearing adjourned till May 21||Self-styled godman Asaram will now have to wait at least a week before the Rajasthan High Court decides if he can be given interim bail for medical treatment through Ayurveda in Haridwar.For now, the rape convict who was admitted at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences in Jodhpur after being infected with coronavirus will continue his treatment there.The division bench of Justice Sandeep Mehta and Justice Devendra Kachhawaha on Thursday adjourned the hearing on the bail plea till May 21, summoning a fresh medical report.The adjournment followed submission of his medical report by the AIIMS, advising the completion of his treatment for Covid-19 and his isolation.In its order, the court said it is taking into view Asaram’s old age and medical condition to direct that “his treatment shall be continued at the AIIMS, Jodhpur under supervision of the concerned doctors/specialists”.Earlier, his counsel Siddharth Luthra, appearing through video conference from Delhi, argued that Asaram suffered from heart and other ailments and preferred Ayurvedic treatment for them.But public prosecutor Anil Joshi countered that Asaram is currently undergoing treatment for Covid-19 at AIIMS and there is no point arguing on his bail plea until he is cured and has completed the 14-day isolation period.Joshi said the AIIMS medical report did not point to any other physical ailment as stated by Asaram.The court adjourned the hearing till May 21 and sought a fresh medical report from AIIMS.Asaram had tested positive for coronavirus in Jodhpur Central jail and was admitted at MG Hospital on May 5 after he complained of difficulty in breathing.Two days later, he was shifted to AIIMS, where he has been undergoing treatment for Covid-19. His condition is stated to be stable there.In 2018, a Jodhpur court sentenced Asaram to life imprisonment for raping a minor at his ashram in Rajasthan five years earlier.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/asaram-seeks-bail-for-ayurvedic-treatment-hc-hearing-adjourned-till-may-21-101620914467996.html
13-05-2021||India||Punjab joins COVAX to procure Covid-19 vaccines at affordable prices||The Punjab government joined the Covid-19 Vaccines Global Access (COVAX) initiative to procure Covid-19 vaccines globally at the best price, becoming the first state in India to do so, chief minister Amarinder Singh’s office announced on Thursday. The decision to join COVAX alliance was taken during a virtual Cabinet meeting, chaired by the chief minister.“The Captain Amarinder Singh led Punjab government on Thursday decided to join the COVAX facility alliance for global sourcing and procurement of Covid vaccines at the best price, becoming the first state in the country to take such a well thought out strategic initiative towards addressing the problem of vaccine shortage amid the deadly second wave of the pandemic,” the state government said in a press release.Punjab has been lagging behind in administering vaccines to its population and the state’s health minister met Union health minister Harsh Vardhan on Wednesday to discuss ramping up of vaccination. The Union health minister asked the health minister of 8 states and union territories to not be “unrealistic” when it comes to demands for the necessary number of vaccines. He also asked these states to focus on delivering second shots that are due before administering the first doses to the next age group.“Hence it is very important that we first focus more on second dose vaccinations. States should not lose sight of those who are to get the second dose of Covid vaccine: 70% at minimum ought to be allocated to meet the requirement of the second dose, while 30% ought to be reserved for the first dose,” Vardhan told states.Following unavailability of vaccines, the Punjab government decided to join the COVAX alliance, since it offers global vaccines at the best possible price. The idea of joining COVAX was suggested by Dr Gagandeep Kaur. who heads the Punjab Expert Group on Vaccination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjab-joins-covax-to-procure-covid-19-vaccines-at-affordable-prices-101620912829093.html
13-05-2021||India||Willing to scale up Covaxin production, invite other companies: Govt||Top government advisor Dr VK Paul said on Thursday that the central government and Bharat Biotech - which manufactures Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin - are willing to invite other companies which want to produce it. Dr Paul said that the decision has been taken to scale up the vaccine production."People say that Covaxin be given to other companies for manufacturing. I am happy to say that Covaxin manufacturing company (Bharat Biotech) has welcomed this when we discussed it with them. Under this vaccine live virus is inactivated and this is done only in BSL3 labs," said Dr Paul."Not every company has this. We give an open invitation to companies who want to do this. Companies that want to manufacture Covaxin, should do it together. The government will assist so that capacity is increased," he added.Talking about the vaccination coverage in his presentation NITI Aayog member emphasised that one-third of the population aged 45 years and above are now covered.Many states in the country have said that there is a shortage of Covid-19 vaccine which has caused them to stop ongoing inoculation drive. Worst-affected Maharashtra and Delhi are among these states. Karnataka too announced on Thursday that it has stopped the vaccination drive.Highlighting the latest feat achieved by the country, Dr Paul disclosed that nearly 18 crore doses of Covid-19 vaccine have been administered in India, whereas, in the US, the number stands around 26 crore which shows that India stands in the third position in the overall vaccination tally in the world.As many as 3,62,727 new Covid-19 cases, 3,52,181 discharges and 4,120 deaths were reported in India in the last 24 hours, the Union Health Ministry informed on Thursday.The total positive cases in the country so far stand at 2,37,03,665. This includes 1,97,34,823 recoveries and 2,58,317 reported deaths. There are currently 37,10,525 active cases in the country.A total of 17,72,14,256 doses of the COVID vaccine have been administered so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/willing-to-scale-up-covaxin-production-invite-other-companies-govt-101620912303668.html
13-05-2021||India||'Destruction of democracy': Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankar after visiting areas hit by post-poll violence||West Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar visited Sitalkuchi in the Cooch Behar district, where four people were killed in firing by Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) during fourth phase of assembly polls on April 10. The governor said that he is shocked to see condition in the area in the wake of post-poll violence."This is total collapse of rule of law. I could have never imagined this. I have seen the fear of Police in the eyes of the people, they are scared to go to Police, their houses were looted. I'm really shocked, this is destruction of democracy," news agency ANI quoted Dhankar as saying."People have left their houses and are living in jungles. Women tell me, that they (goons) will come there once again and there is such failure of security before the governor. I'm shocked at it. I can imagine what the people here must be going through," he added.ANI also showed visuals where Dhankar was shown black flags by people during his visit. He also met the family members of those killed in the violThe governor is visiting the areas where violence took place after the counting of votes on May 2. On Saturday, he had expressed displeasure at not being updated on the law and order situation in the state with regard to post-poll violence by the chief secretary and director general of police (DGP).West Bengal was rocked by large scale violence after the bitterly fought state elections. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee said that 16 people of different political parties lost their lives in clashes after the end of the polls. A four-member team of the Union home ministry, tasked with looking into reasons for the post-poll violence in Bengal, had met Dhankhar at Raj Bhavan.The four-member team had visited the Diamond Harbour area of West Bengal's South 24 Parganas district on May 7 to assess the ground situation.A five-member Constitution Bench of the Calcutta High Court had also ordered the West Bengal Home Secretary to file a report mentioning the places where the violence occurred and the steps taken.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/destruction-of-democracy-dhankar-visits-areas-hit-by-post-poll-violence-101620911666282.html
13-05-2021||India||Underpaid, overburdened nursing staff struggles to cope with workload||Siraj Ahmad, a nurse at a Covid hospital in Kashmir, has stopped going home after work as he fears he may end up infecting his immunocompromised father. He has rented a room near the hospital but does have the money to pay its rent. His father has been paying for his accommodation since he is yet to get his salary three months after he was recruited under the Centre’s National Health Mission scheme.Ahmad said he has been working overtime and often for 30-hour non-stop. “The rent alone costs more than ₹5,000. ...There is even no risk allowance. I have to ask my father for the rent...even though I was promised ₹14,500 salary,” said Ahmad, who graduated last year.Ahmad is not alone. Many like him are underpaid or not paid at all as recent graduates have been recruited across the country to deal with the staff crunch amid the second Covid-19 wave that has overwhelmed the healthcare system.Lithiya Rejoice, who works at a Covid Centre in Kerala’s Thrissur and has recently graduated as a nurse after a four-year course, said they are paid regularly but not enough that they should get for the hectic work they do. She has been working eight hours daily for 10 days followed by a four-day break. Rejoice said they also do night shifts and are in Personal Protection Equipment for up to four hours daily.“.... ₹550 is given to us for a day for working in Covid wards. ...Since most of us have to continuously work for 10 days...the government has at least given us free accommodation at a hostel nearby,” said Rejoice.In Delhi, Rupam Upadhyay, who received her diploma in general nursing and midwifery, is slightly better off and gets ₹20,000 a month. Upadhyay that since she graduated in 2018, she has been working at a hospital in Punjabi Bagh. “Though we are paid 20,000...which might be a bit more than other states but the [work] load...30 patients alone at a time... such salary is very less,” said Upadhyay. “I work 12 hours a day and 12 hours at night on alternate dates all the while risking my life and those at my home. ₹20,000 for such work is very disrespectful for such service,” she said. She said there should be a reduction in work hours and an increase in salaries.Also Read | 15 more patients die at Goa hospital; relatives blame disruption in oxygen supplyKaran, a nursing graduate from Noida’s Sharda University, said he did not consider applying for a nursing post in his native Jammu because of paltry salary. He said it is unfair for a nursing graduate, who has trained for four years, to be paid less than a two-year diploma holder in lab testing.“Such disparity in salary is not acceptable,” he said. He added even a diploma holder in midwifery is paid the same as those who have bachelor’s degree in nursing.Roy K George, President of the Indian Association of Trained Nurses, accused the government of being negligent by not filling the vacancies of nurses across the country. He added nurses already faced a high workload and Covid has multiplied it many times. “In Kerala, where I come from, even an unskilled migrant worker gets 1,000 rupees a day for the work with no risk to life. However, a Covid ward nurse is not paid more than ₹550. This is absolutely shameful.” George added the situation for nurses across the country was depressing and 90 nurses have died of Covid since the pandemic began. He added these nurses were infected at hospitals.“We have stopped updating the numbers of deaths on our website because it demotivates the healthcare staff and causes more emotional stress.”Ranjan Sharma, president, Indian Medical Association, accused the government of treating the health care workers as a use and throw commodity. “Last time, the governments begged these professionals to lend their services. But when the first wave subsided, these people, who had put in everything to help the governments, were thrown out saying that it was too expensive to keep them,” said Sharma.“There is definitely money for advertisements, lavish houses to be constructed for the government functionaries but they do not have money to pay medical staff dying of Covid every day. Hundreds of our doctors and nurses have succumbed. What has the government done for them?”Sharma said Jammu & Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh had long halted recruitment of the paramedic staff, leading to increased workload on medical workers. “...governments like Himachal are not even ready to pay ₹50 a day for the qualified medical staff on Covid duty?”HT reached out to the Union health ministry for a comment, but there was no response despite repeated calls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/underpaid-overburdened-nursing-staff-struggles-to-cope-with-workload-101620911932480.html
13-05-2021||India||‘Tauktae’ likely to be an intense cyclone as oceanic conditions favourable, warn scientists||A low pressure area has formed over southeast Arabian Sea and adjoining Lakshadweep area on Thursday. It is very likely to become well marked over Lakshadweep by Friday and gradually intensify into cyclonic storm Tauktae on May 16.Once formed Cyclone Tauktae can strengthen further very rapidly as all atmospheric conditions are favouring its rapid intensification.“We cannot rule out intensification similar to Super Cyclone Amphan. At present it is difficult to say which category of intensification the cyclone will reach. But conditions are extremely favourable for its rapid intensification. Ocean heat potential is above normal; sea surface temperatures are 1-2 degree C above normal and Madden Julian Oscillation is also favouring rapid intensification. We should be prepared,” said Sunitha Devi, in-charge of cyclones at India Meteorological Department.“MJO is a wave type of propagation west to east across the globe which causes cloudiness and changes in wind direction,” explained Sunitha adding that it is difficult to predict the exact landfall location immediately. “There will be major influence on the Gujarat coast as this is a large and intense system. We are still studying the landfall location possibilities.”The Madden Julian Oscillation (MJO) is characterised by a band of rain clouds moving across the tropics, depending on their location they can assist cyclone build up, she explained.Tauktae meaning gecko (named by Myanmar) will be the first cyclone of this year.By Saturday morning the well-marked low-pressure area is likely to concentrate into a depression over the same region and intensify into a cyclone during the subsequent 24 hours. It is very likely to intensify further and move north north-westwards towards Gujarat and adjoining Pakistan coasts and reach near Gujarat coast around May 18 evening.Light to moderate rain with extremely heavy rain (over 20 cm) is likely over Lakshadweep on May 13 and 14; over Kerala on May 13; over ghat areas of Tamil Nadu and Karnataka on May 15. It is likely rain on May 13, 14, 15, 16 and 17 in all these places.In Konkan and Goa, light to moderate rainfall at many places with heavy rainfall at isolated places is very likely on May 15 and heavy to very heavy falls at a few places on May 16 and 17. In Gujarat, rainfall activity is very likely to commence from May 17 with significant increase during the subsequent 2 days and heavy to very heavy rainfall at a few places over Saurashtra and Kutch on May 18 and 19.Sea condition over southeast Arabian Sea and adjoining Lakshadweep - Maldives area and equatorial Indian Ocean is likely to be rough to very rough on May 13 and 14. Over east central Arabian Sea its likely to be very rough to high (wave height of 6-9 metres/ wind speed 34-47 knots) on May 15 and high to very high (wave height of 9-14 metres/wind speed of 38-63) on May 16 and over northeast Arabian Sea from May 18. Sea conditions will be rough to very rough over Comorin area and along and off Kerala coast on May 14 and 15, very rough to High over east central Arabian Sea along & off Karnataka coast on May 15 and Maharashtra – Goa coasts on May 15 and 16. It is very likely to be very rough to High over northeast Arabian Sea along and off south Gujarat coast from May 17 morning. Tidal wave of about 1 meter height above the astronomical tide is very likely to inundate low lying areas of Lakshadweep Islands on May 15 and 16.Fishermen out in the deep sea are advised to return to coast. Fishermen are advised not to venture into southeast Arabian Sea, Lakshadweep – Maldives areas from May 13, east central Arabian Sea along and off Karnataka coast from May 14, into east central Arabian Sea and along and off Maharashtra – Goa coasts from May 15 and into east central and adjoining northeast Arabian Sea along and off Gujarat coast from May 17.“Both ocean and atmospheric conditions are conducive for cyclone formation. The ocean temperature and heat content are warmer than normal. The SSTs are in the range of 30 to 31 degree C in the north Indian Ocean. That’s an anomaly of 1-2 degree C over some regions. Normally SSTs should be 28 to 30 degree C,” said Roxy Mathew Koll, a climate scientist at the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology (IITM), Pune.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tauktae-likely-to-be-an-intense-cyclone-as-oceanic-conditions-favourable-warn-scientists-101620910970946.html
13-05-2021||India||Kerala CM dashes letter to Modi for 300 MT of oxygen in wake of cyclonic storm||The Kerala government on Thursday urged the Centre to immediately rush at least 300 MT oxygen from neighbouring storage points to augment the storage in hospitals in the wake of the impending cyclonic storm. In a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has issued a cyclonic storm warning forecasting heavy rain and winds in parts of the State on May 14 and May 15. It is anticipated that there may be disruptions in electricity supply to oxygen generation plants and filling stations. Noting that there can also be disruptions in road transport which would impede timely oxygen supply necessary to save precious lives, the chief minister urged the Prime Minister to rush at least 300 MT oxygen to the state from neighbouring storage points. He said the current oxygen generation capacity in Kerala is 212.34 MT per day and at present, the storage of oxygen in hospitals is only for less than 24 hours. "Based on scientific projections, the total daily oxygen requirement for medical purposes in Kerala could rapidly rise to 423.60 MT within the next three days", the letter said. The chief minister said presently, the state is witnessing a surge of the Covid-19 cases and the number of active cases aggregates to 4.19 lakh. He said in the second wave of the pandemic, the State is witnessing an increase in the number of patients who require critical care, including oxygen support. "As the state government will not be able to manage the oxygen demand without assistance from the Central government, it is requested that Kerala's daily oxygen allocation may be immediately enhanced to 450 MT," it said. The chief minister said the Kerala government is continuing to supply liquid medical oxygen to other States, even though the oxygen situation in the State is already precarious.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-cm-dashes-letter-to-modi-for-300-mt-of-oxygen-in-wake-of-cyclonic-storm-101620909590749.html
13-05-2021||India||EC defers MLC polls in Andhra, Telangana due to second wave of Covid||The Election Commission of India (EC) on Thursday postponed polls to nine legislative council seats in Andhra Pradesh and Telangana scheduled this month due to the surge in Covid-19 cases.In a statement, the EC said it reviewed the matter and decided that due to the outbreak of the second wave of Covid-19 in the country, it would be inappropriate to hold the election until the pandemic situation significantly improves and conditions become conducive to hold the polls.Also Read | ‘Election Commission has always been neutral and impartial’: CEC Sushil Chandra“The Commission will take a decision in the matter at [an] appropriate time in the future after taking inputs from the concerned states and assessing the pandemic situation from mandated authorities like National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) and State Disaster Management Authority (SDMA),” the statement said.It added the terms of three members of Andhra Pradesh and six that of Telangana state legislative councils would expire on May 31 and June 3. The elections to these seats will be held under the members of the legislative assembly quota. As per the Representation of the People Act, the elections have to be held before the expiry of the terms of the members.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ecdefers-mlc-polls-in-andhra-telangana-due-to-second-wave-of-covid-101620909410949.html
13-05-2021||India||Delhi health minister appeals to Centre to import Covid vaccine, asks for formula to be shared with other manufacturers||Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain on Thursday echoed his party leader and chief minister Arvind Kejriwal's concern of different states competing in the international market for Covid-19 vaccines and appealed to the central government to import vaccine doses from abroad at a national level. During the time of crisis, the governments need to act together, Jain added."Delhi Govt appeals to Central Govt to import vaccine doses from abroad at a national level rather than leaving states to fend for themselves in international markets. During this time of crisis, we need to act together, not individually," he said.Delhi Govt appeals to Central Govt to import vaccine doses from abroad at a national level rather than leaving states to fend for themselves in international markets. During this time of crisis, we need to act together, not individually.2/3Earlier in the day, Kejriwal questioned 'where is India' as several states floating separate tenders to procure Covid-19 vaccines from abroad. He said that Indian states are left to compete with each other in the international market for the vaccine and this portrays a bad image for India.The national capital, like other states, is facing an acute shortage of vaccine doses. Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MLA Atishi on Wednesday said that no vaccination centre in Delhi will be able to administer Covaxin to people in the age bracket of 18-44 years due to the non-availability of the stock.To increase the vaccine supply in the country, Satyendra Jain on Thursday suggested sharing the formula of Covishield - produced by Serum Institute of India (SII) - and Covaxin - manufactured by Bharat Biotech - with all the Indian manufacturers. Jain said, "this will facilitate mass production in order to vaccinate the citizens of India."Also read: More than 2 billion doses of Covid-19 vaccines to become available in India soonJain also claimed that both the manufacturers have earned a profit of about ₹16,000 crore each at the expense of the common man, as he said that the current prices are exorbitant and the price of each vaccine should be capped at ₹150 per dose."Price of each vaccine should be capped at ₹150/dose. The current prices are exorbitant. @SerumInstIndia @BharatBiotech are profiting with about ₹16000 crore each at the expense of the common man. The life-saving vaccine should be accessible by all strata of society," Jain tweeted.This comes after several states have announced global tenders for the procurement of Covid-19 vaccines. States that have opted for importing the essential shots include Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-health-minister-appeals-to-centre-to-import-covid-19-vaccine-asks-for-vaccine-formula-to-be-shared-with-other-manufacturers-101620903843481.html
13-05-2021||India||WHO-approved Covid-19 vaccines can come to India, more than 2 billion doses to become available soon: Govt||The Centre on Thursday reiterated that any vaccine which is approved by United States' Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and the World Health Organization (WHO) can come to India. The announcement was made at a press conference by NITI Aayog member VK Paul, who also heads the national expert group on vaccines."Import license will be granted within 1-2 days. No import license is pending," Dr Paul said. Last month, the central government had fast-tracked approvals for Covid-19 vaccines cleared for use in the US, the UK, the European Union and Japan.As the world’s largest manufacturer of vaccines, India exported more than 65 million doses of Covid-19 vaccines under its “Vaccine Maitri” initiative but supplies have slowed to a trickle since March as domestic infection rates surged.Dr Paul said that the department of biotechnology, and other departments concerned, and the ministry of external affairs (MEA) have been in touch with vaccine manufacturers like Pfizer, Moderna and Johnson & Johnson."They were officially asked if they'd like to send doses to or manufacture in India. The government told them that it will find partners and assist them. They said that they are working in their own way and they would talk of vaccine availability in Q3, in 2021," said Dr Paul."We are connected to them. I'm hopeful that they'll step forward to increase availability in India," the NITI Aayog member said.The government official gave an update about the milestone achieved by India. "Nearly 18 crore doses of #COVID19 vaccine have been administered in India. In the US, the number stands around 26 crores. So, India stand in the third position," said Dr Paul.He further said that 216 crore doses of vaccines will be manufactured in India between August and December. "There should be no doubt, vaccine will be available for all as we move forward," said Dr Paul.Many states have claimed shortage of Covid-19 vaccines and have either stalled or cut back on plans to vaccinate people in the age group of 18-44. Eleven states have so far opted for floating of global tenders to get Covid-19 vaccines.These states have asked the Centre to changes its vaccination policy and allow other manufacturers to make Covid-19 vaccine to meet the target of a populous country like India.India has so far been using Covishield - made by AstraZeneca - and Bharat Biotech's Covaxin for its nationwide inoculation drive. Dr Paul said on Thursday that Russia's Sputnik V - the third vaccine which was given emergency use approval by India's drugs regulator - will be available in the market from next week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/more-than-2-billion-doses-of-covid-19-vaccines-to-become-available-in-india-soon-govt-101620907793376.html
13-05-2021||India||PM Modi to interact with DMs of 100 districts with high Covid-19 caseloads||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will interact with district magistrates of 100 districts with high caseloads of COVID-19 infections in two meetings on May 18 and 20, government sources said on Thursday.While DMs of 46 districts from nine states will be part of the first meeting, those from 54 districts from 10 states will attend the second meeting, they said, adding that respective chief ministers will be present in these interactions.This will be the first such interaction that the prime minister will have with top district-level administrative officers on the COVID-19 situation.So far, he has held a number of meetings with chief ministers from across the country and also, in some cases, from high caseload states on the pandemic situation since its first outbreak in 2020.According to the latest data from the Union Health Ministry, just ten states account for over 72 per cent of new COVID-19 cases reported in a span of 24 hours and these include Maharashtra, Delhi, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Kerala, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, West Bengal and Rajasthan. Also, just ten states account for 74.30 per cent of the new deaths.India added 3,62,727 new coronavirus infections in a day taking the COVID-19 tally of cases to 2,37,03,665, while the death toll rose to 2,58,317 with 4,120 daily fatalities, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-interact-with-dms-of-100-districts-with-high-covid-19-caseloads-101620907301297.html
13-05-2021||India||'Should we hang ourselves if vaccines are not available' asks Union min Gowda||Union Minister for Chemicals and Fertilisers D V Sadananda Gowda on Thursday sought to know whether people in the government should hang themselves for their failure to produce vaccines as was directed by the government. "The court has with good intention said everyone in the country should get vaccinated. I want to ask you, if the court says tomorrow that you have to give this much (of vaccine), if it has not been produced yet, should we hang ourselves?" Gowda told reporters here.Replying to queries on the shortage of vaccine, the Union Minister stressed on the plan of action of the government and said its decisions are not guided by any political gain or by any other reason. Gowda said the government has been doing its job sincerely and honestly during which time some shortcomings have surfaced. "Practically, certain things are beyond our control, can we manage them?," the Union Minister sought to know.He, however, clarified that the government has been doing its best to ensure that in a day or two, things improve and people get vaccinated. BJP national general secretary C T Ravi, who was present with Gowda, claimed that things would have been worse if arrangements had not been made well in time."If proper arrangements were not made well in advance then there would have been fatalities 10 times or 100 times more," Ravi said. He said oxygen supply has been increased from 300 metric tonnes to 1,500 tonnes due to systematic preparation. "But our preparations failed because of the unimaginable spread of coronavirus," Ravi told reporters.Regarding courts pulling up the government on the issue of coronavirus, Ravi said, "Judges are not all-knowing (Sarvajna). Whatever is available with us, based on that the technical advisory committee will recommend how much (vaccine) has to be distributed. Based on their report, we will take a decision."With the alarming rise in Covid cases in the State, which is reporting 40,000 to 50,000 cases daily, the demand for vaccines has grown manifold. According to the Karnataka government officials, the State has placed an order of three crore vaccines and the money has already been paid to the two vaccine manufacturers. However, only seven lakh doses have arrived in the State.The panicked citizens have been queuing up before the vaccination centres in the State for inoculation only to be turned down.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/should-we-hang-ourselves-if-vaccines-are-not-available-asks-union-min-gowda-101620905840591.html
13-05-2021||India||Goa struggles due to missteps in Covid control||Three weeks back, chief minister Pramod Sawant ruled out a lockdown in Goa even as the second Covid-19 wave was overwhelming the health care systems across the country. He argued the curbs will hurt the economy and insisted the state was better equipped to handle the pandemic than the rest of India before a curfew was imposed in the state on Sunday last.Goa has reported 52,455 Covid-19 cases, which have taken its tally to 127,639, and 881 deaths since Sawant made the comments. The infections and the fatalities over this period have been higher than those recorded during the first wave. Around 32,791 people, or about 2% of the state’s population, are currently battling the disease in the state while 1,874 have died of it so far.The arrangement made to tackle the surge have been found wanting. Goa’s health care infrastructure is struggling to cope as there is a shortage of doctors, nurses, and other health care staff. The supply of medical oxygen, a key intervention among Covid-19 patients many of whom suffer respiratory distress, has run low at the premier state-run Goa Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) for four straight nights, according to health minister Vishwajit Rane, and has been costing lives.Twenty-six patients being treated for Covid-19 at the hospital died between 2am and 6am on Tuesday, Rane said. He added they were facing a shortage of oxygen. “Yesterday [Monday] we required 1,200 cylinders of oxygen but we got only 400. Because of interrupted oxygen supply, I think somewhere between the hours 2am to 6am, there are a lot of deaths happening. Even today between 2 am to 6 am, there were around 26 deaths.”Also Read | 15 more patients die at Goa hospital; relatives blame disruption in oxygen supplyThe Bombay high court at Goa on Wednesday said the material placed before it establishes that patients were indeed suffering and even in some cases succumbing for want of oxygen.On May 2, the Goa Association of Resident Doctors highlighted the inadequate oxygen supply at various Covid wards. “The central oxygen flow delivers very low flow oxygen at times and that is inadequate to keep NIVS (Non-Invasive Ventilation) and ventilators working effectively. Also, the oxygen cylinders being used for patients get over in the middle of the night and it takes at least 2-3 hours for replacement cylinders to come and sometimes more than that and for this time period, the patients are kept without oxygen with saturations dropping to less than 60%,” the Association said in a letter to GMCH’s dean Shivanand Bandekar.The letter prompted the high court to intervene and forced the government to admit to a shortage of oxygen and logistics to make it available.Ashley Delaney, whose father-in-law is battling Covid-19 at GMCH, said every night the oxygen levels have been dropping. “It is patients relying on cylinders who suffer first as there is no one to swap the empty cylinders, especially during the late hours. The nurses and doctors are way too burdened to be able to do this.”Delaney said he has been raising the issue, but little action has followed, and many people have died. He added the experience has been numbing. Delaney said he has seen first-hand people dying as oxygen levels dropped. “Eight wards are dedicated to Covid-19 patients, and each has a capacity of 28 beds. Instead, they are dealing with as many as 70-80 patients in each ward,” Delaney said. “There are only six nurses and one or two doctors to handle 80 patients. If patients are crashing, they require at least six people. The other night, two patients were crashing at the same time and four were attending to one patient and the other had only two. Only one of them was able to make it,” he said.Rane set the alarm bells ringing when he said a high number of deaths were taking place between 2am and 6am, the hours when the oxygen levels also dip.His comments came even as the government had been in denial about the shortage of oxygen.“There is no shortage of oxygen. Instead, we have a shortage of manpower and people to carry the cylinders to ensure that patients have full cylinders at all times. If the cylinders are not in the place...we might as well say there is no oxygen,” Sawant said.A person aware of the matter said the hospital’s general ward does not have a fixed oxygen pipeline. “...that means someone (a technical person) has to keep monitoring the oxygen cylinder gauges etc. Flowmeters have to be adjusted by doctors/nurses depending on the saturation levels. The hospital is supposed to understand the consumption and keep at two times buffer stock, so whenever they get empty, the stock is replenished and this has to go on,” the person said, requesting anonymity.Also Read | Goa’s Dabolim airport to remain closed at night; undergoes maintenanceRane acknowledged the GMCH is overburdened. “The consumption (of oxygen) is unprecedented. We are also facing a shortage,” said Rane, countering Sawant’s claim that there was no shortage.Bandekar conceded before the high court that there indeed was a shortage. “We have faced many interruptions in the supply of central oxygen on a daily basis, leading to near-critical fall in the oxygen saturation of patients in the intensive care units. The supply of cylinder oxygen that is used for mild/moderate patients has also been deficient, and erratic, leading to the needy patients not getting it continuously,” Bandekar told the court on Wednesday.“The death following such hypoxemia (low levels of oxygen in the blood) and organ hypoxia may be immediate, or most of the time after some period of time. Adequate and uninterrupted supply of oxygen is of vital importance in managing (Covid-related pneumonia).”The court ordered the government to ensure an adequate supply of oxygen, which had run low for four nights, “at least for tonight (Wednesday)”.But the oxygen again ran low once and prompted late-night SOS calls on Wednesday night.A police team was be called and constables lugged cylinders up and down the floors to ensure that the empty ones were replaced.Ruling Bharatiya Janata Party lawmaker Atanasio Monserrate has been among those who have hit out at the government over its Covid mismanagement.“The other day, a patient, who had a bed, was taken down and the bed was given to someone else just because that person hailed from Valpoi (Rane’s constituency). You have to be inhuman to be doing something like this. He is the health minister of the whole of Goa, not just of Valpoi,” he said.Rane refused to comment on Monserrate’s allegations.Also Read | 26 deaths at Goa Medical College in 4 hours. Health minister pushes for HC probePrivate hospitals have also been facing the oxygen crunch. “Ours is a private hospital, when I call the supplier, he says the collector has said not to give (oxygen) to private hospitals. We have to keep begging and somehow we manage to get sufficient quantity,” said a manager at a private hospital, requesting anonymity.Experts said Goa ignored the warning signs as the positivity rate began rising in early April when it crossed 10% for the first time in over six months. The government did not increase testing or initiate any kind of trace and track mechanism to ensure that the virus does not spread further.“The government has been caught completely clueless in handling the pandemic. Rather than have the politicians take decisions, they should have set up a committee of experts to chalk out a strategy. Everyone knew that the second wave was coming and that it would be more lethal than the first,” said Dr Jorson Fernandes. “Instead, the government did nothing. There was no move to increase the capacity of the beds to ensure that there are at least 50% more beds than were required during the first wave, no move to set up isolation centres to ensure that people do not transmit the disease among their families. Now there are instances where entire families are positive.”Fernandes said the first thing that the government should have done was to make Covid negative certificates mandatory on arrival in the state. “The state has had to go for a full lockdown, which could have been avoided if it had closely monitored the cases and imposed specific restrictions on certain activities well in advance to ensure that you break the chain even without a lockdown.”Goa now has the highest positivity rate in the country. It had a weekly average positivity rate of close to 50% in early May.Another doctor said the biggest mistake the government made was to take the issue of vaccination very casually. “As soon as there were signs that the second wave was impending, they should have speeded up the vaccination to ensure that everyone is vaccinated in a very quick time,” said the doctor, who did not wish to be named. He said the government was to be blamed, but people too should not be absolved.Experts pointed out the other mistake was keeping Goa open to tourists until two weeks back. Even as the number of tourists arriving in the state fell drastically as Covid-19 cases surged across the country, there were no restrictions on entry into the state.The Travel and Tourism Association of Goa, which opposed any kind of restrictions and on March 19 said making testing mandatory for tourists was not a solution, relented only on May 7 and asked the government to impose a lockdown.State minister Michael Lobo on March 31 said restrictions on tourists would kill the industry. As the cases surged, Lobo was among those who called for a state-wide lockdown.And it took a high court order for the government to make testing for those entering the state mandatory.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-struggles-due-to-missteps-in-covid-control-101620906710700.html
13-05-2021||India||News updates from HT: MK Stalin urges PM Modi to remove GST on Covid-19 vaccines and all the latest news||Stalin writes to PM Modi, asks GST to be removed on Covid-19 vaccinesTamil Nadu chief minister and DMK leader MK Stalin wrote a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, urging him to remove the Goods and Service Tax (GST) on Covid-19 vaccines and other medicines used to treat the infection which are procured by state governments. Read MoreUP village in panic as Covid-19 cases surge in rural areasThe lanes of Mauaima village in Uttar Pradesh’s Prayagraj, which are normally abuzz with activities, wore a deserted look. Read More15 more patients die at Goa hospital; relatives blame disruption in oxygen supplyTwo days after 26 patients lost their lives at Goa’s premier government-run hospital due to lack of oxygen between 2am and 6am, the Pramod Sawant government on Thursday told the Bombay high court that 15 more patients died on Thursday morning. Read More'Look at the way he reacted when he came on to the bench': Haddin reveals Warner's reaction to shock axing in IPLDavid Warner's removal as captain of the Sunrisers Hyderabad during the IPL 2021 came as a bit of a shock for everyone. Read MoreYasmine Al Massri defends Priyanka Chopra as Twitter user questions her silence on Israel-Palestine crisisYasmine Al Massri defended her friend, actor Priyanka Chopra on Twitter. The Quantico actor replied to a social media user questioning Priyanka's silence over the ongoing Israel-Palestine crisis. Read MoreThis 4.5-billion-year-old asteroid may hold the answer to how the Earth came into being, Nasa shares postIf different celestial bodies present in the space and our solar system spark your interest, then this recent share by Nasa may leave you fascinated. Read MorePatthar Wargi: Hina Khan looks stunning in BTS pictures from latest B Praak songHina Khan has been keeping away from social media since her father's demise, but the actor made a brief comeback to interact with fans and also share a teaser of her upcoming music video Patthar Wargi. Read More‘Around 12 lakh waiting for 2nd Covid vaccine dose in Maharashtra’: Nawab MalikMaharashtra Cabinet minister Nawab Malik slammed the Central government over Covid-19 vaccine shortage in the state. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-mk-stalin-urges-pm-modi-to-remove-gst-on-covid-19-vaccines-and-all-the-latest-news-101620903564756.html
13-05-2021||India||Tripura starts Covid-19 vaccination of 18-44 yr age group||Tripura started third phase of Covid-19 vaccination which includes 18-44 year age group from Thursday after receiving first consignment of over 15,000 doses of Covaxin, said officials. “ We received total 15,150 Covaxin doses recently. As per chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb’s wish, priority group will include rickshaw pullers, autorickshaw drivers, and employees of the high court,” said law minister Ratan Lal Nath. Also Read | Tripura govt forms panel to probe attack on ex-CM Manik SarkarVaccination would be done at six session sites in West district with the first session held at MBB airport, according to west district chief medical officer. Over 1.4million people were administered both first and second doses of vaccine in the state, as per the latest report. In the last 24 hours, the state has reported 416 fresh cases and two deaths. Three wards of Agartala Municipal Corporation have been declared containment zone from May 13 to May 22. Nearly 3,500 poor families living in the containment zone would be provided free food packets containing rice, pulses, oil, potatoes, onions, soyabean, milk and salt.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-starts-covid-19-vaccination-of-18-44-yr-age-group-101620904490780.html
13-05-2021||India||Russia's Sputnik V Covid-19 vaccine to be available in market from early next week: Govt||The Union ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) announced on Thursday that Sputnik V, the vaccine against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) developed by Russia's Gamaleya National Center, will be available in markets across the country from early next week.Also Read | 150,000 doses of Russian Sputnik V vaccine on way to HyderabadMaking the announcement at the health ministry's press briefing on the Covid-19 situation in the country, Dr VK Paul, member, NITI Aayog, further said the local production of Sputnik V, often called the world's first vaccine against the viral disease, will begin in July. Hyderabad-based Dr. Reddy's Laboratories will manufacture the vaccine in India.Sputnik V was given emergency use authorisation (EUA) by the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) in April, amid an alarming rise in the country's fresh Covid-19 infections. It will be the third vaccine, shots of which will be administered in India. The other two shots are Covishield and Covaxin. Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII) is manufacturing the Oxford University-AstraZeneca shot as "Covishield" while Bharat Biotech International Limited, also located in Hyderabad, has developed Covaxin.Also Read | India, Russia together against Covid-19, says Russian envoy as Sputnik V arrivesThe Sputnik V Covid-19 vaccine was first approved in Russia on August 11 last year. With an efficacy of 91.6%, as published in the Lancet Medical Journal, the vaccine has been cleared and approved for mass use in more than 50 countries. The Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) has signed a deal to produce 750 million doses of Sputnik V in India.Also Read | Sputnik V, ‘world's first' Covid-19 vaccine, gets experts' nod in India. All you need to knowIndia’s vaccination drive against Covid-19 began on January 16, two weeks after the DCGI announced clearance for both Covishield and Covaxin. Currently, the third phase of the nationwide vaccination drive is underway as every citizen above the age of 18 became eligible for a jab starting May 1. According to the health ministry’s dashboard on Thursday morning, 177,214,256 vaccine doses have been administered across the country thus far, including 1,894,991 in the preceding 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/russias-sputnik-v-covid-19-vaccine-to-be-available-in-market-from-early-next-week-govt-101620904312402.html
13-05-2021||India||Centre accepts panel's recommendation to increase gap between Covishield doses||The Centre on Thursday approved the gap between the first dose and the second dose of a Covid-19 vaccine Covishield based on the recommendation of expert panel. The National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (NTAGI) had recommended that the gap between the two doses of Covishield can be further extended to 12 to 16 weeks.The NTAGI recommendation was accepted by the Union health ministry on Thursday.Also Watch: Top doctor says second jab acting more like booster doseNo such changes were recommend in the intervals of Bharat Biotech's Covaxin. Experts say that Covaxin has been developed using a "dead virus, which is incapable of infecting people but still able to instruct the immune system to mount a defensive action against an infection". There is no data on whether the effectiveness increases if the gap is widened as during the trial.Also Read: What experts recommend about second dose of Covid vaccineThis is the third increase in interval for Covishield. When India started the vaccination drive in January, the recommended gap was four to six weeks. In March, the gap period was revised and extended to four to eight weeks.A study published in medical journal The Lancet on February 19 claimed a 26.2 per cent increase - from 55.1 per cent to 81.3 per cent - if doses were spaced 12 or more weeks apart.NTAGI comprises of government representatives from the Department of Women and Child Development, internal finance division in Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, Department of Biotechnology, Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) along with health experts.India started the world's largest vaccination drive on January 16 this year in a phased manner with healthcare workers (HCWs) getting inoculated first. The vaccination of frontline workers (FLWs) started from February 2.Also Read: Defer vaccination for 6 months after recovery from Covid-19, says govt panelThe next phase of Covid-19 vaccination commenced from March 1 for those over 60 years of age and for people aged 45 and above with specified co-morbid conditions. India launched vaccination for all people aged more than 45 from April 1.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-accepts-panel-s-recommendation-to-increase-gap-between-covishield-doses-101620904211611.html
13-05-2021||India||Four of kin killed in truck-car collision in Andhra’s East Godavari district||Four people, including a five-month-old infant, died on the spot and five others sustained injuries, when a container truck rammed into the car in which they were travelling in Andhra Pradesh’s East Godavari district in the early hours of Thursday, the police said. According to Peddapuram sub-inspector of police A Balaji, the incident happened in front of the Ruchi Soya Factory on the outskirts of Peddapuram town on the Kakinada-Samalkot highway. He said the family of nine was travelling in a sports utility vehicle from Peddavalasa village to Rajahmundry to attend a house-warming ceremony. “As the car was crossing the industrial area on the outskirts of Peddapuram town, a speeding container truck coming from the opposite direction rammed into the SUV. Four people including a five-month-old baby, a woman and two men died on the spot,” Balaji said. Five others, including the person driving the car, were injured. The locals, who immediately informed the police, rescued the injured who were trapped inside the vehicle. “Three of them were taken to Peddapuram area hospital and two others were taken to the Kakinada government hospital,” the SI said. The deceased were identified as: Vanamadi Eshwar Rao (36), Vanamadi Annapurna (33), Aradadi Swamy (55) and a five-month-old baby. Five others - Aradadi Baby, Matha Ramalaxmi, J C Kumar, Matha Krishna and Matha Laxmi, survived the accident and are being treated at the Kakinada government hospital. The Peddapuram police, who arrested the truck driver, registered a case under sections 337 and 304 (A) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). An investigation is underway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/four-of-kin-killed-in-truck-car-collision-in-andhra-s-east-godavari-district-101620903890535.html
13-05-2021||India||India receives 30 oxygen concentrators, 2 ventilators from Italy||Amid ongoing Covid-19 crisis, India on Thursday received 30 oxygen concentrators and two ventilators from Italy, informed Ministry of External Affairs Spokesperson Arindam Bagchi.Thanking the European Union partner for their thoughtful support, Bagchi tweeted, "Committed to further consolidating our friendly ties. Consignment of 30 oxygen concentrators, 2 ventilators, and other medical equipment arrives from Italy. Thank our EU partner for this support."🇮🇳🇮🇹Committed to further consolidating our friendly ties. Consignment of 30 oxygen concentrators, 2 ventilators and other medical equipment arrives from Italy. Thank our EU partner 🇮🇹 for this support. pic.twitter.com/uwPOdCTe2jSeveral countries stood in solidarity with India as the country fights the deadly virus that took many lives.Global support in the form of PPE kits, oxygen concentrators, oxygen cylinders, medicines and other raw materials for the production of vaccines are pouring in to help India mitigate such a massive Covid-19 surge.As of today India recorded 3,62,727 new Covid-19 cases, 3,52,181 discharges and 4,120 deaths. The total positive cases in the country so far stand at 2,37,03,665. This includes 1,97,34,823 recoveries and 2,58,317 reported deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-receives-30-oxygen-concentrators-2-ventilators-from-italy-101620902016341.html
13-05-2021||India||India has administered over 177mn Covid vaccine doses till now||India had administered over 177 million coronavirus vaccine doses by Wednesday, May 12. Meanwhile, Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin got the drug regulator’s approval for clinical trials on children between 2 and 18 years of age even as Delhi said it had to shut over a 100 vaccination centres for want of Covaxin. Meanwhile, by Wednesday 8pm, 177,085,371 vaccine doses had been given in India. This includes 9,598,626 healthcare workers who have had their first dose and 6,568,343 who have got their second dose as well. As many as 14,226,185 frontline workers have had their first dose while 8,025,849 have got their second dose too.In the 45-59-year age group, 56,214,942 people have got their first dose and another 8,131,218 have had their second dose as well. In the 60+ category, 54,088,334 people have been administered their first dose while 16,764,979 have had their second dose as well.Also Read | Maharashtra extends Covid-19 lockdown till June 1, mandates negative RT-PCRIn the newly added category of 18-44 year age group, 417,321 beneficiaries received their first dose of Covid vaccine on Wednesday and cumulatively, 3,466,895 of this age group have been vaccinated across 30 states and Union Territories.As many as 1,772,261 vaccine doses were given by the evening. Of this, 938,933 beneficiaries were vaccinated with the first dose and 833,328 beneficiaries received their second dose as well.Meanwhile, states have begun floating global tenders to procure vaccines for the 18-44 age group. However, there could be a technical issue in inoculating people of this age group as states can only use vaccines approved by the Union government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-has-administered-over-177mn-covid-vaccine-doses-till-now-101620902390876.html
13-05-2021||India||15 more patients die at Goa hospital; relatives blame disruption in oxygen supply||Two days after 26 patients lost their lives at Goa’s premier government-run hospital due to lack of oxygen between 2am and 6am, the Pramod Sawant government on Thursday told the Bombay high court that 15 more patients died on Thursday morning also but tried to convince the court that all these deaths could not be attributed to the disruption in oxygen supply.The judges, who had reprimanded the state government for not ensuring steady oxygen supply just a day earlier, however, didn’t buy the hospital’s defence on Thursday.“Statistics show that the deaths are happening due to a lack of oxygen. Do not try to deny the fact,” the high court’s Goa bench of justices MS Sonak and Nitin Jambre told the state’s top law officer, advocate general Devidas Pangam.“We are aware that the issue is not sorted out yet,” the bench said.Also Read: As Goa battles Covid storm, nobody steering the ship to safetyThe 15 deaths at the Goa Medical College and Hospital come just two days after 26 people lost their lives due to shortage of oxygen at the same hospital, prompting the judges to order the Pramod Sawant government to drop everything and ensure that there are no deaths “at least one night”.At a high court’s hearing on Thursday morning, the Goa Medical College acknowledged that 15 more deaths had taken place between 2am and 6am but insisted that not all of them died because of disruption in oxygen supply as was being claimed by the petitioners.Shruti Chaturvedi, who has set up the Goa Covid network of volunteers and is one of the petitioners, had earlier tweeted news about the 15 deaths.“Despite raising SOSes, police and health dept officials reaching GMC in the wee hours of the night after the alarm of oxygen fluctuations in the central pipeline was raised, 15 people died last night. Again.”Relatives of patients did raise an alarm after the oxygen pressure began to drop overnight and health department officials and the police reached the hospital to help. But it was several hours before anyone was able to fix the problem and ensure a steady supply of oxygen.The medical college’s dean Dr Shivanand Bandekar acknowledged that the oxygen pressure had dropped during the night but claimed that not all the deaths could be attributed to it.He said critical patients would be shifted out of wards that are receiving oxygen at low pressure to a newly-commissioned block where the oxygen supply is steady. The deaths at the state-run hospital due to oxygen supply have come as a major embarrassment to the Pramod Sawant government, which has also been roundly criticised by opposition parties, civil society groups and at least one ruling party MLA for not doing enough.On Wednesday, the high court also reminded the state government that it was its duty to ensure that people didn’t die due to its inability to supply oxygen. “This duty can neither be avoided by pleading helplessness nor by putting forth logistical difficulties in sourcing and supplying oxygen,” the high court said.On Wednesday, the Goa medical college dean had spoken about how disruption in oxygen supply could claim lives and lead to organ failure, leading to deaths long after the oxygen supply is restored.“Reduced oxygen saturation lasting for a significant duration causes tissue hypoxia and irreversible tissue damage. This is worse in the presence of comorbidities and old age. The death following such hypoxemia and organ hypoxia may be immediate, or most of the time after some period of time,” he said on Wednesday.Relatives of patients said the oxygen pressure had been running low for several days. One of them, Christine Fernandes said it was scary. She got her sister an extra cylinder in case the hospital runs out of oxygen again.“My sister Laura Fernandes is admitted in GMC hospital, Goa with severe pneumonia. She was admitted on May 7. She is fighting for her life, while her 2 young kids are waiting for their mother to come home. The first few nights at the hospital were frightening as the oxygen ran low at night and patients were dying during this time,” Fernandes told Hindustan Times.. “We got a cylinder (from a private supplier) on May 11 (after 26 patients died due to lack of oxygen), but no doctor was willing to help fix it. My brother-in-law went home on the 12th morning, got his tools and fixed the cylinder all by himself,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/15-more-patients-die-at-goa-hospital-relatives-blame-disruption-in-oxygen-supply-101620902150435.html
13-05-2021||India||Kerala church retreat: Two more priests die, 5 others critical||Two more priests who had attended the five-day annual retreat event, organised in April by the Church of South India (CSI) in violation of Covid containment guidelines, died on Wednesday. The condition of five other priests was said to be critical, said a group of reformist members of the church. They also claimed that the deaths were caused by Covid-19, but an official confirmation was not available.Father C Binokumar (39) and Father Y Devaprasad (59) died at CSI Medical College Hospital in Karakonam, where five of their colleagues were currently on ventilator support.Two priests died due to Covid-19 in May first week and several others tested positive, blowing the lid off what was described as a “super spreader” event, organised at Munnar, a hill station in Kerala’s Idukki district, between April 13 and 17.The CSI retreat is the latest religious event to hit the headlines for recklessness during the pandemic. Last year, at the beginning of the first wave, a congregation of the Tablighi Jamaat in New Delhi was blamed for causing a spike in cases. Similarly, last month’s congregation at Haridwar Kumbh Mela is also believed to have contributed to the rapid spread of the second wave.On May 5, police booked a case against 400-odd priests including CSI’s South Kerala Diocese Bishop, Father Dharmaraj Rasalam, for allegedly flouting Covid-19 protocols by organising the religious retreat without permission.More controversy followed with a group within the church alleging a section of priests was forced to attend the retreat. They also alleged that the priests, who got infected at the event, were discretely shifted to a medical college run by the church along the Kerala-Tamil Nadu border in an attempt to hush up the matter.Later, a case was registered under Section 269 of the IPC (unlawfully or negligently aiding in spreading an infection dangerous to life) and Kerala Epidemic Diseases Control Act after a senior revenue official found that approximately 450 persons, majority of them priests, attended the event flouting pandemic norms. Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan termed the incident “unfortunate.”However, the church maintains that all precautions were taken at the event and only 28 priests tested positive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-church-retreat-two-more-priests-die-5-others-critical-101620901970888.html
13-05-2021||India||Stalin writes to PM Modi, asks GST to be removed on Covid-19 vaccines||Tamil Nadu chief minister and DMK leader MK Stalin wrote a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, urging him to remove the Goods and Service Tax (GST) on Covid-19 vaccines and other medicines used to treat the infection which are procured by state governments. He said that the this move can be put in place for certain period after consulting with the GST Council since state governments are themselves procuring these things.Stalin also urged PM Modi for quick disbursal of pending GST compensation, rice subsidy and hiking Tamil Nadu's borrowing limits from 3% of the State Gross Domestic Product (SGDP) to 4%.His letter to PM Modi came a day after the Congress party, which fought Tamil Nadu assembly polls along with the DMK, accused the government of seeing an opportunity in crisis by imposing GST on Covid vaccines and medicines. The party claimed that the Centre has collected over ₹6,000 crore from such taxes."The government should not miss the last bus and should act now. Have a vaccine policy in which all Indians will be vaccinated in the next six months, then only we can defeat coronavirus," Congress spokesperson Gaurav Vallabh said.Meanwhile, West Bengal finance minister Amit Mitra on Wednesday wrote to his counterpart at the Centre, Nirmala Sitharaman, urging her to convene a virtual meeting of the GST Council to discuss about the "alarming" shortfall in terms of compensation to states."The GST Council was mandated to meet once in every quarter. Unfortunately, that has been violated twice over, by not calling a meeting for two consecutive quarters - not even virtually," Mitra said in a letter to Sitharaman"This has undermined a federalist institution, where all states are represented irrespective of political parties, regions or sizes of population, along with the GoI, I fear that not holding meetings regularly may also lead to a trust deficit," he further said.Mitra also said a discussion on the shortfall expected in the compensation to states is urgently needed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stalin-writes-to-pm-modi-asks-gst-to-be-removed-on-covid-19-vaccines-101620901269571.html
13-05-2021||India||PM Modi to release 8th instalment of financial benefit under PM-KISAN tomorrow||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will release the 8th instalment of financial benefit under the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi (PM-KISAN) scheme on Friday, May 14."Tomorrow is a very important day for the crores of farmers in the country. I will get the privilege of releasing the 8th instalment of Prime Minister Kisan Samman Nidhi through video conferencing at 11 am. On this occasion, I will also communicate with my farmer brothers and sisters," Prime Minister informed in a tweet.देश के करोड़ों अन्नदाताओं के लिए कल का दिन बेहद महत्वपूर्ण है। सुबह 11 बजे वीडियो कॉन्फ्रेंसिंग के जरिए प्रधानमंत्री किसान सम्मान निधि की 8वीं किस्त जारी करने का सौभाग्य प्राप्त होगा। इस अवसर पर अपने किसान भाई-बहनों के साथ संवाद भी करूंगा।https://t.co/QKUL2SFO7eAccording to Prime Minister's Office (PMO), "This will enable the transfer of more than Rs. 19,000 crores to more than 9.5 crores beneficiary farmer families. Prime Minister will also interact with farmer beneficiaries during the event. Union Agriculture Minister will also be present on the occasion."Notably, under the PM-KISAN scheme, a financial benefit of ₹6000 per year is provided to the eligible beneficiary farmer families, payable in three equal 4-monthly instalments of ₹2000 each.The fund is transferred directly to the bank accounts of the beneficiaries. As per the PMO, in this scheme, Samman Rashi of over ₹1.15 lakh crores has been transferred to farmer families so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-release-8th-instalment-of-financial-benefit-under-pm-kisan-tomorrow-101620900427523.html
13-05-2021||India||West Bengal governor vows to uphold constitution as he visits Cooch Behar, hit by post-poll violence||West Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankar on Thursday reached areas marred by post-poll violence, Hindustan Times' sister publication Livehindustan reported. He is on a visit to Cooch Behar district where violence took place in Sitalkuchi during fourth phase of assembly election on April 10.After reaching Cooch Behar, Dhankar said that his duty is to uphold the Constitution, and he will work towards it, according to Livehindustan. The governor will interact with victims of post-poll violence in Cooch Behar.He will also go to Assam on May 14, where Dhankar will go to Ranpagli and Srirampur camps, a statement from the Raj Bhavan said on Wednesday.On Wednesday, chief minister Mamata Banerjee accused the governor of violating norms and planning to visit Cooch Behar district where four villagers were killed in firing by Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) personnel at Sitalkuchi.Banerjee, in a letter to Dhankhar, said: "I find from social media that you are unilaterally proceeding to Cooch Behar district on May 13 and, sadly, I find that to be violative of the long-standing norms as evolved over several decades. I, therefore, would expect you to kindly follow the well-established norms of protocol and desist from abrupt decisions with regards to field visits."Dhankar responded to the chief minister, asking her to uphold constitutional commitments, adding that it is time to address issues being faced by people in deep distress."We both, being constitutional functionaries, are subject to the constitution. I am sure you will at least concede supremacy of the constitution, that by the oath you are ordained to follow. Revisit your stance and commit to the constitution that by the oath you are obligated to uphold and follow. This is time to address issues being faced by people in deep distress," the West Bengal governor said in his letter to Banerjee.On May 7, a four-member team deputed by the Ministry of Home Affairs had visited the Diamond Harbour area of West Bengal's South 24 Parganas district to assess the ground situation after the violence following the results of the assembly elections on May 2.A five-member Constitution Bench of the Calcutta High Court had also ordered the West Bengal Home Secretary to file a report mentioning the places where the violence occurred and the steps taken.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/west-bengal-governor-vows-to-uphold-constitution-as-he-visit-cooch-behar-101620900217652.html
13-05-2021||India||Child trafficking suspected behind pleas for adoption of Covid ‘orphans’||Social media posts appealing for adoption of kids allegedly orphaned during the Covid-19 pandemic may be a trick played out by child trafficking gangs that generally get activated during such calamities, warned UP police officials and child rights activists. The authorities have not only launched a probe into such posts but also begun gathering data on children actually orphaned by the pandemic.Multiple messages portraying tragic stories of infants, allegedly left abandoned after the death of their parents due to Covid-19, have been doing the rounds on social media platforms.One such message in which a person was offering kids for adoption circumventing the legal process alerted a group of child activists in Lucknow. The message read: “If anyone wishes to adopt a girl, please feel free to contact. One girl is 3 days old and another is six months old, and they have lost their parents recently due to Covid. Please help these kids get a new life.”Sangeeta Sharma, a child rights activist and a member of Child Line, said such messages were in circulation and requested her peers to report them to Child Line.“I called up one of the contact numbers mentioned in one of the similar messages and found that a man on the other end was promising a girl child for adoption without verifying her identity,” she said.Sharma said she reported the matter to the Lucknow police and requested cops to trace the person who she feared could possibly be involved in child trafficking and illegal child adoption.Lucknow commissioner of police DK Thakur confirmed that a team had been deployed to inquire into the case and other similar posts after being alerted by Child Line activists.Sharma feared many orphaned children were at risk of falling prey to human traffickers or illegal adoption rackets, looking to make a quick buck during the present Covid crisis.The state’s department of women and child development has also taken cognizance of such messages and has written to all district magistrates across UP to prepare a list of children below 18 years of age who have lost their parents to Covid. The list has to be submitted by May 15 to the director (women welfare) and the State Commission for Protection of Child Rights to facilitate immediate assistance to them, said a senior government official.In a similar exercise, the director of the department of women and child development Manoj Rai has asked officials to get details of orphaned children from Covid hospitals in the state. The record will be given to child welfare committees."We have decided to lend a helping hand to the affected children by providing them financial assistance, even if there are more than two in one family," Rai said. Another child rights activist Ajit Kushwaha said there were instances of children losing their parents to the deadly virus, making them vulnerable to human traffickers. "A similar thing happened during the Nepal earthquake when a large number of such gangs became active. I think strict government intervention is required to keep such gangs at bay,” Kushwaha said.Another child rights activist, Sumar Rawat, too said there was a dire need of a system to keep a check on illegal adoptions. She said the government should form dedicated committees to keep an eye on such activities or assign the task to the existing ‘nigrani samitis’.While a clear and present threat of child trafficking and illegal adoption rackets coming into play during the pandemic exists, several genuine tragedies have come to the attention of child rights activists, who have been helping them out.For instance, a 16-year-old girl in Lucknow’s Alambagh lost her parents, younger brother and grandmother in 10 days between April 22 and May 2 to the pandemic, while her elder brother was yet to recover from Covid infection, activist Sangeeta Sharma points out. The girl was left abandoned after the tragedy and was later shifted to her relative’s place, she added.In another case, three infants were found in the past one week after being abandoned by two families in Hardoi and Barabanki. The two infants in Hardoi were handed over to Child Line. They have been kept at Bal Grih on Prag Narain road. The other infant was admitted to the district hospital. The child was found in the bushes on a roadside in Barabanki and was badly injured after apparently being attacked by stray animals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/child-trafficking-suspected-behind-pleas-for-adoption-of-covid-orphans-101620898370713.html
13-05-2021||India||Bhubaneswar airport to receive 4,020 oxygen cylinders from foreign nations in one week||The Bhubaneswar airport is going to receive 4,020 seamless oxygen cylinders from foreign countries through various flights within a week, the Airports Authority of India (AAI) said on Thursday.The airport has handled transportation of 156 oxygen tankers, 536 oxygen concentrators and 140 oxygen cylinders between April 23 and May 11, the AAI said in a statement.These items were transported by the Indian Air Force (IAF), it said."Transportation of 3,500 pieces of 10-litre seamless cylinders and 1,520 pieces of 46.7 litre seamless cylinders are in pipeline and the consignment is expected within a week from foreign countries," the AAI stated.The AAI owns and manages more than 100 airports, including the Bhubaneswar airport, across the country.India has been badly hit by the second wave of the coronavirus pandemic and hospitals in several states are reeling under a shortage of oxygen, health workers, vaccines, and drugs.With 3,62,727 new coronavirus cases in a day, the country's Covid-19 tally rose to 2,37,03,665, while the death toll reached 2,58,317 after 4,120 more fatalities were reported, according to the Union Health Ministry’s data updated on Thursday.The active cases have increased to 37,10,525 comprising 15.65% of the total infections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bhubaneswar-airport-to-receive-4-020-oxygen-cylinders-from-foreign-nations-in-one-week-101620898052679.html
13-05-2021||India||ICMR Covid-19 task force to meet on Friday for review on ‘inappropriate use’ of plasma therapy||The Indian Council of Medical Research’s (ICMR) National task force on Covid-19 is scheduled to meet on Friday to decide on the inappropriate use of convalescent plasma therapy in the treatment of ailing Covid-19 patients, news agency ANI reported quoting ICMR sources.This meeting comes against the backdrop of clinicians and scientists in the country writing to the government's principal scientific advisor K Vijay Raghavan urging caution against the "irrational and non-scientific use" of convalescent plasma in treating Covid-19 patients in India."We are writing to you as concerned clinicians, public health professionals and scientists from India about the irrational and non-scientific use of convalescent plasma for Covid-19 in the country," a letter written by vaccinologist Gagandeep Kang and surgeon Pramesh C S among others said.Concerns were raised after the Union health ministry issued a revised 'Clinical Guidance for Management of Adult Covid-19 Patients' on April 22, allowing the ‘off-label’ use of convalescent plasma to treat patients of Covid-19 afflicted with moderate symptoms, within 7 days of the onset of the disease.Citing an ICMR-PLACID trial, the world’s first randomised control trial on the use of convalescent plasma conducted in 39 public and private hospitals across the nation, the letter also alleged that the current guidelines on plasma therapy are not based on existing evidence."The current research evidence unanimously indicates that there is no benefit offered by convalescent plasma for treatment of Covid-19. However, it continues to be prescribed rampantly in hospitals across India,” the letter said.ICMR had constituted a national task force headed by the director of All India Institute of Medical Science (AIIMS) Dr Randeep Guleria. The task force is responsible for creating treatment protocols, identifying research priorities, and reviewing existing evidence on global strategies to tackle Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/icmr-covid-19-task-force-to-meet-on-friday-for-review-on-inappropriate-use-of-plasma-therapy-101620897145731.html
13-05-2021||India||10 states account for over 72 per cent of new Covid-19 cases||Delhi, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh are among 10 states that account for 72.42 per cent of the 3,62,727 new cases in the country in a span of 24 hours, the Union Health Ministry said on Thursday.Kerala, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, West Bengal and Rajasthan are the other states in the list of 10.Maharashtra reported the highest daily new cases at 46,781. It is followed by Kerala with 43,529 while Karnataka reported 39,998 new cases.India's total active caseload has increased to 37,10,525 and now comprises 15.65 per cent of the country's total infections.A net increase of 6,426 cases has been recorded in the active caseload in a day.Karnataka, Maharashtra, Kerala, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Gujarat, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh and Haryana cumulatively account for 79.67 per cent of India's total active cases.The National Mortality Rate currently stands at 1.09 per cent, the ministry said, adding that 4,120 deaths were reported in a span of 24 hours.Ten states also account for 74.30 per cent of the new deaths. Maharashtra saw the maximum casualties (816). Karnataka follows with 516 daily deaths.India's cumulative recoveries stand at 1,97,34,823 with 3,52,181 recoveries being registered in a span of 24 hours.Ten states account for 72.90 per cent of the new recoveries.The ministry also said that the cumulative number of COVID-19 vaccine doses administered in the country has exceeded 17.72 crore.A total of 17,72,14,256 vaccine doses have been administered through 25,70,537 sessions, according to the provisional report till 7 am.These include 96,00,420 healthcare workers (HCWs) who have taken the first dose and 65,70,062 HCWs who have taken the second dose, 1,42,34,793 FLWs who have received the first dose and 80,30,007 FLWs have taken the second dose and 34,80,618 beneficiaries in 18-45 age group have taken received the first dose.Besides, 5,62,43,308 and 81,58,535  beneficiaries aged 45 to 60 have been administered the first and second dose respectively, while 5,40,99,241 and 1,67,97,272 beneficiaries more than 60 years old have taken the first and second dose respectively.Maharashtra, Rajasthan,Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Bihar, Kerala and Andhra Pradesh account for 66.73 per cent of the cumulative doses given so far in the country, the ministry said.It stated 4,31,285 beneficiaries in the age group of 18-44 years received their first dose of COVID vaccine in the last 24 hours and cumulatively 34,80,618 across 30 states and UTs since the start of phase-3 of vaccination drive. Nearly 19 lakh vaccination doses were administered in a span of 24 hours.As on Day-117 of the vaccination drive (May 12), 18,94,991 vaccine doses were given. Across 17,684 sessions, 9,98,409 beneficiaries were vaccinated for the first dose and 8,96,582 beneficiaries received their second dose of vaccine.The ministry further said that the Centre is clearing and apportioning global aid to strengthen tertiary medical care across States and UTs for COVID management. Cumulatively, 9,284 oxygen concentrators; 7,033 oxygen cylinders; 19 oxygen generation plants; 5,933 ventilators/Bi PAP and over 3.44L Remdesivir vials have been delivered or dispatched through road and air, so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/10-states-account-for-over-72-per-cent-of-new-covid-19-cases-101620895587131.html
13-05-2021||India||Odisha records 10,649 new Covid cases; active cases cross 100,000-mark||The sharp rise in daily Covid-19 cases and deaths in Odisha continued on Thursday even as the number of active cases crossed the one-lakh mark for the first time in the coastal state since the beginning of the pandemic last year, a health department official said.The Covid-19 caseload in the state mounted to 576, 297 as 10,649 more people tested positive for the disease and 19 fresh fatalities pushed the death toll to 2,251, he said.Odisha now has 100,313 active cases, the official said, adding that 473,680 patients have so far recovered from the infection.Khurda district, which comprises the state capital Bhubaneswar, accounted for 14,886 actives cases, followed by Sundargarh (11,466) and Cuttack (8,274).Of the fresh cases, 5,965 were reported from quarantine centres and 4,684 detected during contact tracing.According to the official, Khurda also recorded the highest number of new cases at 1,557, followed by Cuttack (930), Sundargarh (774), Angul (557) and Balasore (503).Taking to Twitter, the Health and Family Welfare Department said, "Regret to inform the demise of nineteen Covid positive patients while under treatment in hospitals."Three fresh deaths were reported from Angul district and two each from Sundargarh and Puri. One patient each from Balasore, Bargah, Khurda, Bolangir, Boudh, Ganjam, Jagatsinghpur, Kandhamal, Malkangiri, Nuapadda, Rayagada and Sambalpur succumbed to the infection, he said.Fifty-three other Covid-19 patients have so far died due to comorbidities, the official said.The state has so far conducted over 1.07 crore sample tests for Covid-19, including 51,451 on Wednesday, and the positivity rate stands at 5.38 per cent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-records-10-649-new-covid-cases-active-cases-cross-100000mark-101620896031382.html
13-05-2021||India||Four killed, 10 injured after boiler explodes at Tamil Nadu chemical plant||Four workers including a woman were killed and 10 injured on Thursday due to the release of Ammonia after a boiler exploded in a chemical plant here, the government said.Chief Minister MK Stalin ordered a solatium of ₹three lakh to the kin of each of the deceased. He has also directed assistance of ₹one lakh to each of the injured."Ammonia gas got released following boiler explosion," a government release said adding it led to the death of four people and 10 were injured.At the time of the mishap, police said workers were engaged in their usual work this morning at the plant that produces chemical active ingredients and intermediates for crop protection.The explosion led to the diffusion of gas in the plant premises leading to asphyxiation of three men and a woman and the mishap caused injuries to 10 others, they said."They did not sustain burn injuries. Death was due to asphyxiation (due to gas release)," Cuddalore District Police Superintendent, Sree Abhinav told reporters.A case is registered and a probe is on.Labour Minister C V Ganesan said an enquiry would be ordered into the mishap.The injured were rushed to the Cuddalore Government Hospital and were being treated. The Minister visited the health facility and interacted with them and he said an enquiry would be ordered into the accident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/four-killed-10-injured-after-boiler-explodes-at-tamil-nadu-chemical-plant-101620895336660.html
13-05-2021||India||UPSC postpones June 27 civil services preliminary exam; to be held on Oct 10||The Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) on Thursday postponed the civil services preliminary examination, scheduled to be held in June, to October 10 in view of the alarming Covid situation.The commission conducts civil services examination annually in three stages -- preliminary, main and interview -- to select officers of Indian Administrative Service (IAS), Indian Foreign Service (IFS) and Indian Police Service (IPS) among others."Due to the prevailing conditions caused by the novel coronavirus (Covid-19), the Union Public Service Commission has deferred the civil services (preliminary) examination, 2021, which was scheduled to be held on 27th June, 2021. Now, this examination will be held on 10th October, 2021," a statement issued by the commission said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/upsc-postpones-june-27-civil-services-preliminary-exam-to-be-held-on-oct-10-101620895077134.html
13-05-2021||India||When to take Covid-19 vaccine 2nd dose? What to do if once infected? What experts recommend||The gap between the first dose and the second dose of a Covid-19 vaccine has become crucial in India as many beneficiaries are missing the date of the second dose because of the shortage of doses. On Thursday, the government expert panel recommended that the gap between the two doses of Covishield can be further extended to 12 to 16 weeks. These recommendations will be sent to the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration before the changes come to effect. Here is all you need to know about the proposed changes:1. When should you take the 2nd dose?In general, a gap of a minimum of 28 days is suggested between two doses of Covid-19 vaccines. But for Covishield, the vaccine developed by Oxford University and Astrazeneca and produced in India by Pune's Serum Institute, the gap has been revised based on "emerging scientific evidence". When India started the vaccination drive in January, the recommended gap was four to six weeks. In March, the gap period was revised and extended to four to eight weeks. Now the expert group has again recommended widening the gap to 12 to 16 weeks. Once the recommendation is accepted, the Centre will inform the states and the UTs accordingly. Till then, the existing gap will continue to be followed.2. Why does the gap matter?Studies have revealed that Covishield works better when the two doses are spaced apart. The Lancet, in February, said, Covishield's effectiveness increases by over 26 per cent if the doses are spaced 12 or more weeks apart. Reports said the gap has been again revised based on practical evidence reported in the UK.Defer vaccination for 6 months after recovery from Covid-19, says govt panel3. Why is the gap between the two doses of Covaxin not revised?According to experts, Covaxin has been developed in a different way. It is an inactivated vaccine, which contains a "dead virus, incapable of infecting people but still able to instruct the immune system to mount a defensive action against an infection". There is no data on whether the effectiveness increases if the gap is widened as during the trial, everyone was given the second dose after 28 days. Hence, its two doses are given 28 days apart and no change has been suggested to this gap.4. When to take the 1st dose if you have already been infected once?According to the existing protocol, one can take the vaccine four to eight weeks after recovering from Covid-19. Under its new recommendations, the expert group has suggested that one can defer vaccination for six months after recovery. But it is applicable to only those having laboratory test proven SARS-CoV-2 illness. It is not clear what Covid suspect patients should do as doctors are starting treatment if the symptoms are present, without waiting for test results.5. What to do if one gets infected after the first dose of the vaccine?Such people should wait for 4-8 weeks after recovery from the illness for their second dose, the new recommendations of the expert panel said.6. What if you miss the date of your second dose of vaccination because the vaccination centre has run out of stock?Several doctors are of the opinion that a little delay in the second dose won't make much difference but it should not be skipped as both doses ensure full protection from the virus.7. Can patients who have been treated with plasma take the vaccine? When should they take the 1st dose?According to the government expert panel, those who have been treated with monoclonal antibodies or convalescent plasma may defer their first dose for three months after getting discharged from the hospital.(With PTI Inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/when-to-take-covid-19-vaccine-2nd-dose-when-to-take-1st-dose-if-once-infected-here-s-all-you-need-to-know-101620893941629.html
13-05-2021||India||Bodies found buried in sand near Ganga in Uttar Pradesh's Unnao||Days after bodies of suspected Covid-19 patients washed up on the shores of the river Ganga in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, more have been found buried in the sand in Unnao.A team of the local police is in the process of carrying out an inquiry and searches are being conducted for more bodies.According to District Magistrate Ravinder Kumar, the bodies were found buried in an area far from the river."Our team has found buried bodies in an area far from the river. Search being conducted for more bodies in other areas. I have asked a team to carry out an inquiry. Action will be taken accordingly," the DM said.Over the last two days, horrific scenes of dead bodies floating in the Ganga river in Uttar Pradesh's Ghazipur and Bihar's Buxar caused panic among locals who feared that the bodies were of deceased Covid patients.According to Bihar Minister Sanjay Kumar Jha, 71 bodies were taken out from the river in Buxar district and their last rites performed and a net has been placed in the Ganga in Ranighat, bordering UP and Bihar, to stop any similar incident from happening again.Local residents have complained of stench coming from the bloated, decomposed corpses and accused the authorities of ineptitude.These incidents have sparked fears about the scale of the Covid crisis in the country. Authorities believe the relatives of those who succumbed to the virus, may not have been able to find space for the last rites.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bodies-found-buried-in-sand-near-ganga-in-uttar-pradesh-s-unnao-101620893824088.html
13-05-2021||India||Vedanta’s Sterlite plant dispatches first oxygen tanker||Vedanta-owned Sterlite copper smelter plant in Thoothukudi on Thursday dispatched the first tanker of 4.8 tonnes of medical grade oxygen to Tirunelveli medical college. Thoothukudi district collector K Senthil Raj said the first tanker with 4.8 tonnes of medical-grade oxygen was dispatched at 7am. “98.6% purity has been checked at the QC (quality control) lab within Sterlite and sent to Tirunelveli medical college,” he said. Police personnel were deployed to escort the vehicle.The Sterlite facility, which was shut down in 2018 for violating environmental norms, was re-opened following a Supreme Court order only to produce oxygen which is in demand across the country for treating critical Covid-19 patients. The order will be in effect until July 30. Also Read | Stalin appoints new officers to key administrative positionsThe oxygen production will be scaled up and logistics are being worked out for its transport to other parts of the country. The plant started manufacturing oxygen on May 12, said a statement from Vedanta. They will dispatch two such oxygen tankers every day as the production is gradually increased. “The oxygen supplied is of 98.6% purity and has received the necessary medical grade certifications. We are now working with experts to resolve the logistics involved in transporting the oxygen produced in our facility to required parts of India, and are coordinating with the authorised nodal agencies in this regard,” the statement added.The state government had shut the company in May 2018 after largescale protests that it was causing pollution and public health problems. On the 100th day of the protests, 13 people were killed in police firing. The case is being probed by the CBI and the retired justice Aruna Jagadeesan committee. A case for Vedanta’s plea to re-open the unit is pending in the apex court. Local residents have been protesting the apex court order allowing medical oxygen production at the unit, afraid that the company will gain backdoor entry and re-open the facility. A seven-member committee headed by the collector has been formed on the court’s direction to oversee the functioning of the plant and redress concerns of residents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vedantas-sterlite-plant-dispatches-first-oxygen-tanker-101620893270265.html
13-05-2021||India||'More to life than image building': Anupam Kher says Centre 'slipped' in Covid-19 response||As the deadlier, more infectious second wave of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) continues wreaking havoc in India, the central government has been facing strict censure from several quarters over its alleged mismanagement of the pandemic. This time, Bollywood actor Anupam Kher, noted film personality and an otherwise generous proponent of the Narendra Modi-led NDA government, has appeared to open up on where he felt the Centre had "slipped" in Covid-19 response.Anupam Kher, in an interview with news publication NDTV, said that it is important to hold the government responsible for what is happening in the country in the wake of the second Covid-19 wave. "Somewhere they have slipped. It is time for them to understand that there is much more to life than just image building maybe," Kher was quoted as saying in the interview by news agency PTI.The news agency reported that Anupam Kher is often viewed as being close to the Narendra Modi-led government, and that his criticism of the government's "image building" in the face of a pandemic is a striking shift from his usual tone.Anupam Kher, a former chairman of the Film and Television Institute of India (FTII) also added, however, that using the government's lapses for political advantages was wrong."I think the criticism is valid in lots of cases... Only an inhuman person will not get affected by the bodies floating (in the rivers)," Kher said in a reference to the scores of bodies found floating in the Ganga and other rivers, leading to suspicion that they might be those of Covid-19 patients."But for another political party to use it for their gain, I think that is also not right. I think we should, as people, get angry. It is important to hold the government responsible for what's happening," he added.As the second wave of the coronavirus disease progresses, the central government has repeatedly been facing severe critiques over its Covid-19 policies, from procurement of vaccines to the alleged dearth in supply of medical oxygen, hospital beds, ventilators, and other medical supplies. Anupam Kher termed the state of affairs in the country a "war-like" situation and said that people have the right to complain and get angry but that it should not hold back on being compassionate towards fellow citizens.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/more-to-life-than-image-building-anupam-kher-says-centre-slipped-in-covid-19-response-101620889484127.html
13-05-2021||India||Maha extends lockdown till June 1; negative RT-PCR mandatory for entering state||The Maharashtra government on Thursday extended the ongoing lockdown for two weeks, citing that it was “imperative to continue emergency measures to contain the spread of virus”. As per an order issued by chief secretary Sitaram Kunte, the lockdown has been extended till 7am of June 1. The order has also mandated negative RT-PCR report for those entering Maharashtra by any mode of transport. The test should be done up to 48 hours before entry in the state. The state government has also made all restrictions applicable to people coming in from eight states, which were termed places of sensitive origin. These restrictions include mandatory 15-day home quarantine even if they are carrying a negative report. People will be stamped on their hand for home quarantine. The states in the “sensitive origin” category are Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal, Kerala, Goa, Gujarat, Delhi and NCR region, Rajasthan and Uttarakhand.Also Read | Maharashtra to compile database of mucormycosis to assess its spreadThe order stated, “The State of Maharashtra is continued to be threatened with the spread of Covid-19 virus, and therefore it is imperative to continue emergency measures to prevent and contain the spread of virus, therefore,the Government...finds it is necessary to continue the enforcement of the current restrictions, along with certain additional restrictions, thoughout the State beyond 7 AM on 15th May, 2021 till 7 AM on lst June, 2021 to break the chain of transmission effectively.”The order added that local disaster management authority should keep “special vigil” over rural markets and mandis to ensure Covid-appropriate behaviour. It added that local disaster management authority can decide to add further restrictions with 48-hour notice.On Wednesday, the state recorded 46,781 new cases, and 816 deaths. The total number of Covid-19 cases in the state has now reached 5,226,710.There are currently 546,129 active cases in the state of which Pune has the most, 103,067 cases, followed by Nagpur with 49,345. The death toll has now reached 78,007 with Mumbai leading with 13,972 fatalities, followed by Pune with 10,176.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maha-extends-lockdown-till-june-1-negative-rt-pcr-mandatory-for-entering-state-101620890989731.html
13-05-2021||India||Low key Eid celebrations in Kashmir amid Covid-19 restrictions||Eid-ul-Fitr is being celebrated in a subdued manner in the Kashmir valley without holding big congregations due to the restrictions imposed to contain Covid-19 pandemic. Jammu and Kashmir has currently 50,000 active cases of the disease and Srinagar district has the highest number of these. The valley continues to remain under a lockdown with curfew-like restrictions imposed in the 10 districts of the division with an aim to prevent further spread of coronavirus.Eid prayers were held in mosques but the majority of residents stayed at home following the Covid-19 containment guidelines. Muslims offer special prayers as a mark of thanksgiving to the almighty at the end of the month-long Ramzan fasting.No big Eid gathering was reported from any part of Kashmir. City’s grand mosque - Jamia Masjid and Dargah Hazratbal, where thousands used to offer prayers on Eid, were locked as the mosque management committee had asked people to offer prayers at local mosques instead to avoid crowding at one place. This is the fourth consecutive Eid-ul-Fitr in Kashmir which is being celebrated in a sombre atmosphere.Jammu and Kashmir lieutenant governor (LG) Manoj Sinha extended warm greetings to the people on the occasion.“May this auspicious festival deepen the bond of unity; bring peace, prosperity, and happiness. I urge everyone to follow the Covid protocols, offer Eid prayers at home and stay safe,” the LG said in his message.On late Wednesday night, grand mufti Nasir ul Islam announced the sighting of crescent moon and declared Eid on Thursday. Due to the existing curfew, many people were unable to make Eid purchases. Though on Tuesday, the administration had relaxed the curfew for a few hours which led to a rush in the markets and traffic jams, forcing authorities to withdraw the relaxation not only in Srinagar but also in other districts.Last year, Eid-ul-Azha prayers were low key in view of the pandemic, while Eid-ul-Fitr prayers could not be offered in May due to a Covid-induced lockdown. Before that, Eid-ul-Azha prayers in 2019 could not be offered in Kashmir as authorities had imposed a strict curfew in the wake of the abrogation of Article 370 of the Constitution and bifurcation of the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir into Union territories.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/low-key-eid-celebrations-in-kashmir-amid-covid-19-restrictions-101620890869859.html
13-05-2021||India||News updates from HT | 50 employees suffering from Covid-19: Bharat Biotech's message and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.50 employees suffering from Covid: Bharat Biotech's message amid vaccine woesBharat Biotech joint managing director Suchitrs Ella on Wednesday said the vaccine maker is working round the clock to ensure the supply of the vaccines at a time when 50 of its employees are fighting the infection. Read moreAs states float global tenders, uncertainty persists over vaccine suppliesOn Wednesday, Tamil Nadu became 11th state in India to opt for floating of global tenders to get Covid-19 vaccines, even as states which have decided to opt for global tenders lack clarity on when they would receive these additional doses of vaccines and have cut back on plans to vaccinate those in the 18-45 age bracket in the wake of vaccine shortage. Read moreKejriwal asks 'where is India' as states float global tenders for Covid vaccinesDelhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday said several states floating separate tenders to procure Covid-19 vaccines from abroad is detrimental for India's image in the world. Read moreGovt says reports of faulty ventilators in Punjab's Faridkot hospital unfounded, issue with hospital infrastructureIn what appeared to be a rebuttal to these claims, the Union government on Thursday said the reports about ventilators being of poor quality seem to be unfounded and do not have full information on the matter. Read more'They weren't going to the Gabba': Australia captain Tim Paine says India good at 'niggling' and 'creating sideshows'Australia captain Tim Paine has taken a shot at India, saying the Indian cricket team are good at distracting the opposition with things that 'do not matter'. Read moreMahindra Thar launch in Australia halted after Jeep moves court over designMahindra and Mahindra has put off its plans to launch the Thar SUV down under after US-based carmaker Fiat Chrysler, which owns the Jeep brand, decided to move court in Australia. Read moreZareen Khan weighed over 100kg in college: 'I only faced body-shaming when I entered the film industry'Actor Zareen Khan has revealed that she faced fat-shaming in the film industry after she started acting. She also said that she was never bullied for her weight prior to that, even when she weighed more than 100kg when in college. Read moreWatch: India receives Covid medical supplies from Germany, Finland and Greece||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-50-employees-suffering-from-covid-19-bharat-biotech-s-message-amid-vaccine-woes-and-all-the-latest-news-101620889555521.html
13-05-2021||India||As states float global tenders, uncertainty persists over vaccine supplies||On Wednesday, Tamil Nadu became 11th state in India to opt for floating of global tenders to get Covid-19 vaccines, even as states which have decided to opt for global tenders lack clarity on when they would receive these additional doses of vaccines and have cut back on plans to vaccinate those in the 18-45 age bracket in the wake of vaccine shortage.Conversations with officials across the states indicate that most states are not very confident of getting the vaccines from international players soon as only those manufacturers who have been approved by Drug Controller of India can supply vaccines.States are also facing an additional challenge — most international vaccine manufacturers already have made supply commitments to domestic governments or other countries, which may have made advance bookings.Officials also said the only possible way to deal with vaccine shortage is to remove the patents and allow government-run public sector undertakings (PSUs) to manufacture the vaccines in large numbers to meet the domestic demand for vaccination to all above 18 years of age. They, however, said even if the patents are removed now, PSUs would take at least a few months to produce first batch of vaccines.“We have no option but to allow public sector companies to manufacture vaccines,” said Andhra Pradesh chief minister M Jagan Reddy in a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday, asking the PM to direct Bharat Biotech to transfer the vaccine technology to whichever company is capable of manufacturing vaccines.Covaxin, India’s first indigenously developed Covid-19 vaccine, is a collaborative effort between Bharat Biotech and the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). It was developed using the SARS-CoV-2 strain, isolated in the National Institute of Virology in Pune, which functions under ICMR. ICMR and Bharat Biotech jointly carried out the clinical and pre-clinical trials of the vaccine in India.Also Read | 50 employees suffering from Covid: Bharat Biotech’s message amid vaccine woesOn Wednesday, West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee asked PM Modi to allow “liberal, pro-active and discerning” import of vaccine saying 100 million in the state need to be vaccinated and supply of doses was “extremely inadequate.”“Kindly consider if we could encourage the world players to open up franchise operations in our country. Even the national players could be inspired to go for the franchisee mode for bulk production of vaccines. We, in West Bengal, are ready to provide land and support for any manufacturing/franchisee operation for authentic vaccine manufacturing,” Banerjee wrote.Giving reasons for her letter, a senior West Bengal government official, who did not wish to be named, said that it was made clear at the meeting with the CM that getting vaccines from international manufacturers to vaccinate all will not be easy.Another state government official said Serum Institute has informed the state that it would not be able to provide vaccines to private players before July and supply for 18-44 age group will also be limited. “That is the reason for us to stop walk-ins for 18-44 age group,” the second official said.Rupak Barua, group CEO, AMRI Hospitals and president of the Association of Hospitals of Eastern India, said that April 30 was the last day when private hospitals received supply of vaccines through the state health department.“Those who received their first dose at private hospitals will be able to get their second dose from government health care facilities,” he said. During the last census in 2011, Bengal’s population stood at 91.3 million and it is projected to have increased to 101.9 million in 2021.The Tamil Nadu cabinet on Wednesday decided to float global tenders to vaccinate people in 18 to 44 age group even as the state has received 7.7 million vaccine doses for those above 45 years of age. It has utilised 6.5 million doses. “We are planning a road map but a lot will depend on vaccines we can import,” said Vinay Kumar, joint director for immunisation, directorate of public health.The state has more than 3,000 vaccination sites and is experiencing a shortage. “With such a shortage at hand, how can we distribute and vaccinate people on a sustained basis?” a senior health official said, not wishing to be identified. He added that the current strategy was to vaccine vulnerable groups with the vaccines the state was receiving.Officials in Uttar Pradesh said they did not expect to get the first delivery of vaccines from international manufacturers before July. The state has decided to import 40 million vaccine doses.Also Read | Kejriwal asks ‘where is India’ as states float global tenders for Covid vaccines“The state is going to have a pre-bid qualification meeting with any prospective suppliers. After that, bids are scheduled for May 21. The companies (those who are interested) would mention the delivery schedule then,” said state health minister Jai Pratap Singh. The vaccination for 18-44 age group is underway only in 18 of the state’s 75 districts as the state has received only 8% of the vaccines it has booked with Serum Institute and Bharat Biotech, officials said.Punjab, which needs to vaccinated around 20 million people in the 18-plus age group, has placed order for three million doses with Serum Institute and has received only 100,000 doses from the Pune-based company. The next consignment of 230,000 doses is expected to arrive from SII between May 15-May 25, when Punjab plans to start vaccinating the 18-plus.The state set up around 3,000 vaccination centres when the vaccination opened up for 45-plus category from April 1 and 80,000 to 90,000 jabs a day were administered. As the Centre’s supply was cut short, state average day coverage has come down to 40,000-50,000 jabs.Punjab’s health minister Balbir Sidhu has blamed the inadequate supply from the Centre as the reason behind slow vaccination in the state. “At the start of the drive, we faced a lot of hesitancy for the vaccine. However, now when we have set up our centres across the state and motivated the people by running massive awareness drive, low stocks has discouraged us,” said Sidhu.Officials in several states such as Himachal Pradesh, Punjab and Uttarakhand said that in absence of adequate vaccines for 18-44 age group, the governments have decided to continue vaccination for 45 plus age groups only. Most of these state governments are waiting for additional vaccines to resume vaccination in full swing.On Wednesday, Uttarakhand chief secretary Om Prakash said the government has decided to import over 2 million Covid vaccines in the next two months. “Vaccines will take time to come,” he said, adding the Centre was allocating vaccines to state based on its population.A Rajasthan government official said that the international manufacturers have not even replied to queries regarding how much vaccines they can supply. “We presume many have prior commitments and may not be in a position to supply vaccines to Indian states immediately. We have decided to float global tenders to get vaccines in the next three to four months,” the official requesting anonymity said.Experts said the states need to change its strategy and look for vulnerable community vaccination. “We are working on procurement, which is good, but we need to change our strategy from hospital facility to community based involving civil society organisations, religious leaders who will in turn mobilise communities,” says Prabhdeep Kaur, deputy director, National Institute of Epidemiology. “We need to target elderly and those vulnerable and people in the rural areas, who may not come forward to hospitals,” she added.“Vaccination for Covid needs to go the routine immunisation way now. Covid vaccine should be made available in every locality just as other vaccines are available. In a nutshell, vaccination coverage has to be expanded manifold now, and if there is shortage of vaccine, it should be procured so that private clinics can also participate in Covid vaccination to expand coverage,” said PK Gupta, former president of Indian Medical Association, Lucknow chapter.(With state bureaus)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-states-float-global-tenders-uncertainty-persists-over-vaccine-supplies-101620889729751.html
13-05-2021||India||Govt says reports of faulty ventilators in Punjab's Faridkot hospital unfounded, issue with hospital infrastructure||After reports of ventilators lying unused at Faridkot's Guru Gobind Singh Medical College (GGSMC) and Hospital surfaced, the Punjab government claimed that most of the life-saving machines supplied by the Centre under the PM Cares Fund are faulty and not in working condition. In what appeared to be a rebuttal to these claims, the Union government on Thursday said the reports about ventilators being of poor quality seem to be unfounded and do not have full information on the matter."There have been some media reports suggesting that Government of India supplied ventilators (supported by PM CARES) to GGS Medical College and Hospital, Faridkot, Punjab are lying unused as a result of technical glitches which have not been resolved due to poor after-sales support by the manufacturers. These reports seem to be unfounded, not having the full information on the matter," the government said.Also read: Nearly 40% of PM Cares ventilators faulty or pending installation in PunjabThe government said 88 of the ventilators were supplied by Bharat Electronics Limited (BEL) and it has informed that the bulk of ventilators supplied to the hospital are not faulty, as are being reported. It said that their engineers have observed that there are problems with the infrastructure in GGSMCH like the non-availability of required pressure in the central oxygen gas pipelines. The hospital authorities are not following the prescribed norms of changing consumables like flow sensors, bacteria filters and HME filters or they are using the machines without these important consumable items, the government said in a statement. Correct gas pressure and the proper use of consumables are necessary for the efficient functioning of CV200 ventilators, the statement added.The Union government said that the BEL engineers have visited the hospital multiple times in the past to address the issues and promptly carried out minor repairs. Various demonstrations on the functioning of the ventilators were also conducted by the engineers for the staff of the hospital.BEL engineers visited the hospital on Wednesday as well and "made five ventilators functional only by replacing a few consumables and demonstrated their optimum performance to the GGSMCH authorities, thereby, further making it evident that when operated properly, the ventilators will provide reliable performance," the government added.Also read: Foreign aid for Covid-19 swiftly cleared for states, says CentreThe government also said that BEL will continue to provide all the technical support required by the state in meeting the requirement of ventilators during the coronavirus pandemic.The ventilators in Faridkot's medical college and hospital came under the spotlight after the Aam Aadmi Party MLA Kultar Singh Sandhwan tweeted a picture of the machines lying unused in the hospital on Tuesday. Post which, Baba Farid University of Health Sciences Vice-Chancellor Raj Bahadur said 82 ventilators were received by the hospital of which 62 were not in working condition since the beginning. Guru Gobind Singh Medical College (GGSMC) and Hospital comes under the Baba Farid University of Health Sciences.Meanwhile, the state government on Wednesday also claimed that 130 of the 809 ventilators received from the Centre are not functional, as per a PTI report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-says-reports-of-faulty-ventilators-in-punjab-s-faridkot-hospital-unfounded-issue-with-hospital-infrastructure-101620881437267.html
13-05-2021||India||PM missing along with vaccines, oxygen, medicines, says Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi launched an attack on Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday, alleging that he is missing along with vaccines, oxygen and medicines during the Covid-19 pandemic and what remains is the central vista project and the PM's photos."The prime minister is also missing, along with vaccines, oxygen and medicines. All that remain are the central vista project, GST on medicines and the prime minister's photos here and there," he said in a tweet in Hindi.Gandhi has been attacking the prime minister over the government's handling of the pandemic and has been critical of the Centre for the lack of oxygen, medicines and vaccines in the country amid a surge in the number of cases during the second wave of Covid-19.Congress's chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala also hit out at the government over dead bodies floating in the Ganga."What time has come in this New India that even dead bodies floating in rivers are not visible to the government. Shame...," he said in a tweet in Hindi, while citing a news report about the bodies being buried in sand in Uttar Pradesh's Unnao.With a single-day rise of 3,62,727 cases, India's Covid-19 tally climbed to 2,37,03,665 on Thursday, while the death toll due to the viral disease rose to 2,58,317 with 4,120 more people succumbing to it, according to the health ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-missing-along-with-vaccines-oxygen-medicines-says-rahul-gandhi-101620886194617.html
13-05-2021||India||Banks to remain closed on May 13, 14 in these parts of India. Check here||Banks will remain shut in most parts of the country for the next two days on May 13 and 14. These two days are declared as holidays under the Negotiable Instruments Act by the Reserve Bank of India.All banks including the private sector, regional banks, foreign banks, cooperative banks remain closed on certain days notified by the federal bank under the Negotiable Instruments Act, holiday, real time gross settlement holiday and banks’ closing of accounts, as per the guidelines.Also read: BSE, NSE to remain closed today on account of Eid-ul-FitrBank holidays vary from state to state and are not observed nationwide. Only gazetted holidays are observed by banks across the nation.On the occasion of Ramzan-Id (Id-Ul-Fitr) (Shawal-1) on May 13, the banks will remain closed in Belapur, Jammu, Kochi, Mumbai, Nagpur, Srinagar, Thiruvananthapuram.Banks will be closed on May 14 on the occasion of Bhagvan Shree Parshuram Jayanti, Ramjan-Eid (Eid-UI-Fitra), Basava Jayanti, Akshaya Tritiya.The lenders will be closed in Agartala, Ahmedabad, Aizawl, Bengaluru, Bhopal, Bhubaneswar, Chandigarh, Chennai, Dehradun, Gangtok, Guwahati, Hyderabad, Imphal, Jaipur, Jammu, Kanpur, Kolkata, Lucknow, New Delhi, Panaji, Patna, Raipur, Ranchi, Shillong, Shimla on May 14.Also read: Bitcoin falls after Musk halts Tesla purchases with currencyThe private and public sector banks in the country are closed every second and fourth Saturday of the month. As per a notification of the Reserve Bank of India, banks are also closed on all Sundays.Other days in May when banks will remain closed include:May 16, when it is a Sunday.May 22, which is the fourth Saturday of the monthMay 23, as it is a SundayOn the occasion of Buddha Purnima on May 26. This holiday will be observed in many states.May 30, Sunday||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/banks-to-remain-closed-on-may-13-14-in-these-parts-of-india-check-here-101620883969920.html
13-05-2021||India||Link PAN card and Aadhaar via income tax portal or SMS: A step-by-step guide||Linking your Aadhaar card with the PAN card is necessary at this point, and if you still have not done it, you should consider doing so. According to the latest updates, the last date to link Aadhaar with PAN has been extended to June 30, and it is not yet clear if this deadline will be extended any further. If one still has not linked their Aadhaar with PAN by this deadline, penal action might follow.Also Read: Centre extends Aadhaar-PAN linking deadline to June 30, cites Covid-19 pandemicThere are five simple steps with which one can easily link their Aadhaar card with the permanent account number (PAN). Fret not, it's not a complex procedure. Here's the complete guide on linking PAN with Aadhaar:How to link the Aadhaar card with PAN?There are currently two ways to link Aadhaar with PAN: via the official portal of the income tax department and alternatively, using the SMS service to link the two identifiers. We will cover both processes in this step-by-step guide:1. Linking PAN and Aadhaar using the income tax portal:To link the Aadhaar card with the PAN number using the official portal of the income tax department, follow these five simple steps:Step 1: Visit the official e-filing portal of the income tax department: http://incometaxindiaefiling.gov.in/Step 2: On the homepage, you will find a series of 'Quick Links' to the left. Find the ‘Link Aadhaar’ section and click on it. It should be the second option from the top.Step 3: On the next page, you will be given a form to fill. Carefully put in the PAN number, Aadhaar number, name as per the Aadhaar card. Check the 'I have only year of birth in Aadhaar Card', if suitable. Don't forget to check in the 'I agree to validate my Aadhaar details with UIDAI' box before proceeding.Step 4: Enter the captcha code as provided in the image. Visually challenged persons can also request a one-time password (OTP) if the image captcha seems too complicated.Step 5: Click on the 'Link Aadhaar' option. The income tax department will validate your details, thereafter your PAN-Aadhaar linking will be completed.2. Linking PAN and Aadhaar using the SMS service:To link the Aadhaar card with the PAN number using the SMS service, follow these five simple steps:Step 1: Open the desired messaging platform on your mobile phone. You will need to send in an SMS to the income tax department to remotely link your PAN with Aadhaar.Step 2: Type in the following on the SMS platform:UIDPAN <12-digit Aadhaar number> <10-digit PAN number>Step 3: Note that to successfully link your Aadhaar with PAN, the aforementioned format should be followed carefully, including the spaces as provided above. You must have your Aadhaar and PAN numbers ready to input them in the process.Step 4: Send the SMS to either 567678 or 56161. Either of the numbers shall do fine. Please note that the SMS must be sent only once from your registered mobile number.Step 5: The income tax department will validate your details, thereafter your PAN-Aadhaar linking will be completed.A few details to note while linking PAN with Aadhaar:1. The name, date of birth, and gender as per the PAN card will be validated against your the same in your Aadhaar details during the verification process.2. Ensure that the Aadhaar number and the spelling of your name are exactly as those printed on your Aadhaar card. The same details will already be mentioned on the PAN card as well.3. Proceed with linking the PAN card with Aadhaar only if the details match. If there is a mismatch in either of the details, the same needs to be corrected in the documents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/link-pan-card-and-aadhaar-via-income-tax-portal-or-sms-a-step-by-step-guide-101620885546016.html
13-05-2021||India||50 employees suffering from Covid: Bharat Biotech's message amid vaccine woes||Bharat Biotech joint managing director Suchitrs Ella on Wednesday said the vaccine maker is working round the clock to ensure the supply of the vaccines at a time when 50 of its employees are fighting the infection. But some states are complaining, which is 'quite disheartening', Suchitra wrote on Twitter.Amid the ongoing second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, states are demanding more vaccines as every state is aiming at inoculating the maximum number of people before the pandemic hurls its third wave if any. From May 1, people falling in the age group of 18 to 44 years have been considered eligible for receiving vaccines. This added pressure to the ongoing vaccination drive of people above the age of 44 years. As the Centre has asked the states to prioritise the 45+ age group as they remain more vulnerable to the threat of the infection and many of them have already received the first dose of the vaccine, states are now halting the vaccination of the 18+ age group.Bharat Biotech, Serum Institute submit Covid vaccine production plans for next 4 months to CentreCovaxin dispatched 10/5/21.18 states have been covered thou in smaller shipments. Quite disheartening to the teams to hear Some states complaining about our intentions. 50 of our employees are off work due to covid, yet we continue to work under pandemic lockdowns 24x7 for U 🇮🇳 pic.twitter.com/FmQl4vtqXCDelhi, Maharashtra and Karnataka have already stalled the vaccination of the 18+ age group so that the second doses for 45+ people are not missed.Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Wednesday said Bharat Biotech has refused to provide additional vaccine doses to the Capital as it does not have stock at present. "The Covaxin manufacturer has in a letter said that it cannot provide the Delhi government vaccines due to unavailability, under the instruction of government officials concerned. It means that the central government is controlling the supply of the vaccine," Sisodia said.Bharat Biotech is supplying vaccines directly to Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Gujarat, Haryana, Jammu & Kashmir, Jharkhand, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Odisha, Tamil Nadu, Tripura, Telangana, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal since May 1. The shipments are small but there is no interruption in the supply, the firm has confirmed. The vaccine maker, which got the nod to conduct phase 2 and phase 3 trial of Covaxin on children below the age group of 18 years, is stepping up its vaccine production. In July, it aims to produce 3.32 crore doses and in August, the company aims to produce 7.82 crore doses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/50-employees-suffering-from-covid-bharat-biotech-s-message-amid-vaccine-woes-101620887001411.html
13-05-2021||India||Kejriwal asks 'where is India' as states float global tenders for Covid vaccines||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday said several states floating separate tenders to procure Covid-19 vaccines from abroad is detrimental for India's image in the world. Pitching for centralised procurement of vaccines from abroad, the chief minister said, "Indian states left to compete/fight with each other in the international market. UP fighting Maha, Maha fighting Orissa, Orissa fighting Delhi. Where is “India”? Portrays such a bad image of India."Also when we approach vaccine manufacturers and their countries as “India” rather than individual states, our bargaining power is much more, Indian govt has much more diplomatic space to negotiate with their countries. https://t.co/ZcMmbWTnshRajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Haryana and Delhi are the 10 states that have decided to go global to procure vaccines as the supply of vaccines in the country is not adequate compared with the population. States, irrespective of whether ruled by the BJP or not, are taking this route as vaccinating the maximum number of people is of paramount importance as of now. As the Centre is prioritising the administration of the second dose of vaccination, Delhi, Maharashtra and Karnataka have stalled the vaccination of people in the age group of 18 to 44 years for the time being."Also when we approach vaccine manufacturers and their countries as India rather than individual states, our bargaining power is much more, Indian govt has much more diplomatic space to negotiate with their countries," Kejriwal tweeted. Vaccine becomes a state versus state battle as richer states will be better positioned in procuring the highest number of vaccine doses.Giving tender for procuring vaccines is also happening at municipal level as the country's richest civic body, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation, on Wednesday floated a global expression of interest to procure one crore doses. Vaccine manufacturers, Indian partners, authorised distributors can participate in the bidding, but they should not belong to countries sharing border with India, the BMC said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kejriwal-asks-where-is-india-as-states-float-global-tenders-for-covid-vaccines-101620885162511.html
13-05-2021||India||Defer vaccination for 6 months after recovery from Covid-19, says govt panel||A government panel has recommended those testing positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) to defer vaccination for six months after recovery. The National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (NTAGI), an advisory group on the Covid-19 vaccines, also recommended that the gap between the two doses of Covishield, which was earlier six to eight weeks, be increased to 12 to 16 weeks. This announcement comes amid acute shortage of vaccines across the country.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageNTAGI's recommendations will now be sent to the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for COVID-19 (NEGVAC) for approval.Earlier in March, the Centre had increased the gap between two doses of the Serum Institue of India (SII) vaccine from 28 days to six to eight weeks. No change has been suggested for interval between the two doses of Bharat Biotech's Covaxin.Numerous states with high infection rates, including Maharashtra, have halted vaccination for their population in the age group of 18-44 and diverted all vaccines to cover people above the age to 45. “We’re suspending the vaccination drive for the age group of 18-44 for the time being owing to the shortage of the vaccines,” Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope said on Wednesday.Also Read: Bharat Biotech to conduct Covaxin trial on age group between 2 and 18In another announcement, the panel said pregnant women may take any one of the two Covid-19 vaccines and lactating women are also eligible for jabs at any time after delivery.According to a study recently published in the journal Obstetrics & Gynecology, vaccines result in no injury to the placenta in pregnant women. Most patients participating in these studies received either Moderna or the Pfizer vaccines, both of which are not in use in India yet. However, the study will help ease the prevalent vaccine hesitancy, especially among pregnant women, researchers said, according to news agency PTI."From what we can tell, the Covid vaccine does not damage the placenta," said Jeffery Goldstein, assistant professor at Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine in the US.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/defer-vaccination-for-6-months-after-recovery-from-covid-19-says-govt-panel-101620884434595.html
13-05-2021||India||Download Aadhaar card online in 10 easy steps. Here's a complete guide||The Aadhaar card can be downloaded by any valid citizen of India easily from the official website of the Unique Identification Authority of India (UIDAI). To download an Aadhaar card online, a person will any one of the following: the registered Aadhaar Number, the Enrolment ID (EID), or the Virtual ID (VID). Downloading the e-Aadhaar online, i.e. an electronic copy of the Aadhaar card can be done in ten simple steps with the help of either of these credentials.What is Aadhaar?The Aadhaar card provides the 12-digit unique identity number to an Indian citizen, which can then be used to avail public benefits provided by the Government of India.For the purpose of overseeing this Aadhaar process, the central government in 2009 set up the UIDAI, a statutory authority under the Union ministry of electronics and information technology.Is e-Aadhaar different from a physical copy of the Aadhaar card?Downloading the Aadhaar card online will provide an individual with the 'e-Aadhaar', a password-protected PDF copy of the Aadhaar, digitally signed by the competent authority of UIDAI. According to the government, this e-Aadhaar is just as valid as the physical copy of Aadhaar for all purposes.Also Read: Centre extends Aadhaar-PAN linking deadline to June 30, cites Covid-19 pandemicA 'Masked Aadhaar' can also be downloaded online from the government portal. The masked Aadhaar gives an individual the option to mask or hide their Aadhaar number in the downloaded e-Aadhaar copy for privacy purposes.How to download Aadhaar card online using Aadhaar number?Download the UIDAI Aadhaar card online using your Aadhaar number with these 10 simple steps:1. Visit the official UIDAI website for Aadhaar: https://uidai.gov.in2. Once you arrive at the homepage, find the 'Get Aadhaar' option. It should be right there at the top. Click on it.3. On the next page, click on the 'Download Aadhaar' option. It should be the fourth option from the top. Alternatively, you can click here to directly arrive at the desired page.4. Next, you will be given a choice to enter either the Aadhaar number, the Enrolment ID (EID), or the Virtual ID (VID). Since we are presently showcasing the Aadhaar Number option, we will proceed with that.5. The Aadhaar number is a 12-digit unique identifier (UID) that is divided in the following format: 1234/1234/1234, where the digits vary from user to user. You will find the Aadhaar number on the physical copy of your Aadhaar card. Enter the digits.6. Check the 'I want a masked Aadhaar' option only if you want an e-Aadhaar copy where the Aadhaar number remains masked. Else, keep it unchecked.7. Verify the image captcha in the blank space carefully, and click on the 'Send OTP' option. The portal will send a one-time password (OTP) to your registered mobile number.8. Once you receive the OTP on your registered mobile number, enter the password carefully after clicking on the 'Enter a TOTP' option on the page.9. Complete the survey and click on "Verify and Download" to download your electronic copy of the Aadhaar card online.10. Save the PDF copy carefully on your hard drive and produce it whenever required to avail public benefits.How to download Aadhaar card online using Enrolment ID (EID)?Download the UIDAI Aadhaar card online using your Enrolment number (EID) with these simple steps:1. Repeat steps 1 to 3 as narrated above.2. When you are given a choice, proceed with the 'Enrolment ID (EID)' option.3. Enter the 14-digit enrolment number and the 14-digit date-time stamp printed on the enrolment slip.4. Enter your full name and the pin code of your registered address.5. Follow steps 6 to 10 as given above to download your electronic copy of the Aadhaar card online.How to download Aadhaar card online using Virtual ID (VID)?Although a relatively new option, you can easily download the UIDAI Aadhaar card online using your Virtual ID (VID) with these simple steps:1. Repeat steps 1 to 3 from the first guide as usual.2. When you are given a choice, proceed with the 'Virtual ID (VID)' option.3. Enter the 16-digit virtual identification number.4. Enter your full name and the pin code of your registered address.5. Follow steps 6 to 10 from the first guide to download your electronic copy of the Aadhaar card online.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/download-aadhaar-card-online-in-10-easy-steps-here-s-a-complete-guide-101620879401856.html
13-05-2021||India||Chhattisgarh launches new portal to vaccinate those without mobile, internet||Chhattisgarh has launched CG Teeka web portal to enable the disadvantaged section of its population to register for Covid-19 vaccination programme through help desks, to be set up at hundreds of locations across the state.The state government said this initiative will help in “systematic” vaccination of residents in the 18-44 years age group by ensuring the state’s poor residents, lacking smart phone or internet facilities, are not left out from the Covid vaccination drive. The government is setting up help desks at the level of panchayats, urban bodies, and municipal corporations among other centres to help them register.“This initiative will save the people from waiting in long queues. All they have to do is to upload their personal details on http://cgteeka.cgstate.gov.in/user-registration. As soon as they complete the registration process online, they will receive the information about the time and place of vaccination via SMS,” said a senior state government official.The CoWIN web portal being used nationally to register beneficiaries of Covid vaccines, links the recipients to their mobile numbers, which needs to be entered into the system. Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel said CG Teeka web portal does away with the requirement of a mobile number, keeping in mind the largely poor and rural population of the state.“Around 48 percent of the people under the BPL (below poverty line), Antyodaya and destitute category do not have a mobile phone. Because of the system of compulsory online registration, this class may get deprived of Covid vaccination,” Baghel said, explaining the purpose of the initiative. The state government was recently directed by the high court to take special measures to ensure that the vaccination drive also reaches the underprivileged section of the population.“Convenience of every section of the society has been kept in mind while developing this web portal. People will get accurate information about the place and time of vaccination through this,” Baghel added.Meanwhile the principal secretary of the health department said the state was left with only 1 lakh doses of Covid vaccines out of the 5 lakh doses allotted to Chhattisgarh for vaccinating the 18-44 years age group.“As soon as the new consignment of vaccine doses arrives, people will be informed immediately about the time and place of vaccination through SMS,” said Alok Shukla.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-launches-new-portal-to-vaccinate-those-without-mobile-internet-101620882589179.html
13-05-2021||India||Bharat Biotech to conduct Covaxin trial on age group between 2 and 18, DCGI gives nod||The Drug Controller General of India on Thursday gave permission to Bharat Biotech to conduct clinical trials of its Covid-19 vaccines Covaxin on children belonging to the age group of 2 to 18 years. Bharat Biotech will conduct the trials on 525 healthy volunteers, the Hyderabad-based firm said.The decision comes after the subject expert committee recommended permission in favour of Bharat Biotech. The permission has been granted after "careful examination", the government said.During the trial, the vaccine will be administered through muscles in two doses in a gap of 28 days, the government said. The trial will take place at AIIMS Delhi, AIIMS Patna and Meditrina Institute of Medical Sciences, Nagpur."As a rapid regulatory response, the proposal was deliberated in Subject Expert Committee (SEC) (COVID-19) on 11.05.2021. The Committee after detailed deliberation recommended for grant of permission to conduct proposed Phase II/III clinical trial to certain conditions," it said.Also Read: Covaxin receives nod for trials on childrenBharat Biotech, which developed Covaxin in association with the Indian Council of Medical Research, submitted the proposal of conducting trials on children early this year. The proposal was deliberated in the meeting of the subject expert committee in February as Bharat Biotech was asked to submit a revised clinical trial protocol.A few days ago, a wrong claim was doing the rounds that Covaxin has been approved for children above 12 years. The Centre refuted the claim and said no such approval was given.As India is going through the second wave of the pandemic amid which the ongoing vaccination drive has been opened from people between the age group of 18 and 44 years, the need to extend vaccination to those below 18 years has been felt.Pfizer-BioNTech's Covid-19 vaccine has been given emergency use authorisation for children aged between 12 and 15 in the US. Canada too has approved Pfizer for 12-year-olds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dcgi-approves-phase-2-3-clinical-trial-of-covaxin-on-218yearolds-101620882472678.html
13-05-2021||India||Oxygen concentrator case: Delhi court rejects bail plea of Navneet Kalra||A Delhi court on Thursday dismissed the anticipatory bail plea of businessman Navneet Kalra in connection with a case relating to the hoarding of oxygen concentrators in a restaurant in south Delhi. The court had yesterday reserved its order on the plea.The court was hearing Kalra's anticipatory bail plea in connection with the police seizing oxygen concentrators from his restaurants, including at Khan Chacha restaurant.The court had on Tuesday refused to give any interim relief from arrest to Kalra in the alleged oxygen concentrator hoarding and black marketing case.During a recent raid, 524 oxygen concentrators were recovered from three restaurants owned by Kalra. These concentrators are the crucial medical equipment used for Covid-19 management at a time when the nation is reeling under the coronavirus pandemic.Kalra has been on the run since the recovery of the oxygen concentrators. The police said that he could not be tracked despite raids being conducted in Delhi and in adjoining states such as Uttarakhand.According to the investigators, they have evidence that shows the oxygen concentrators were bought for ₹14,000-15,000 and sold at ₹70,000-75,000.Meanwhile, the Delhi high court has asked the accused in the alleged black marketing and hoarding cases of oxygen, drugs etc filed after May 2 to appear before the court virtually on the next date of hearing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/oxygen-concentrator-case-delhi-court-rejects-bail-plea-of-navneet-kalra-101620880596310.html
13-05-2021||India||Govt ramping up availability of anti-fungal medicine for mucormycosis||The government is taking steps to ramp up the availability of anti-fungal medication amid a sharp rise in cases of mucormycosis, popularly known as black fungus, in Covid-19 patients.“A sudden increase in demand has been observed in some states for Amphotericin B which is being actively prescribed by the physicians to patients suffering from mucormycosis, a post-Covid complication. The Government of India is therefore engaging with the manufacturers to ramp up production of the drug. The supply position is expected to improve with extra imports of this drug and increase in its production domestically,” according to an official release from the ministry of chemicals and fertilizers.On May 11, after reviewing the stock position with the manufacturers and importers, and the demand pattern of Amphotericin B, the department of pharmaceuticals allocated the drug among the states, based on expected supply that will be available from May 10 to May 31, 2021. Also Read | Maharashtra to compile database of mucormycosis to assess its spreadAfter Covid-19 infection, the black fungus happens in those with uncontrolled diabetes, those who are immune-compromised, and those who are given excessive steroids or immune-modulating drugs such as tocilizumab. If left untreated, it might kill as many as 80% of the people who get it. If not detected early, it affects the orbit of the eye and the mouth, resulting in people losing their vision or jaw during debridement, the process of removing dead tissue from an infection or wound. The Centre has also asked states to put in place a mechanism for equitable distribution of supplies among government and private hospitals, and health care agencies. It has also asked them to publicise the ‘point of contact’ for private and government hospitals to obtain the drug from the allocated stock. The arrangements for supply will be monitored by the National Pharmaceuticals Pricing Authority.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-ramping-up-availability-of-anti-fungal-medicine-for-mucormycosis-101620880430370.html
13-05-2021||India||India records 3.62 lakh fresh Covid-19 infections, 4,120 deaths in 24 hours||A day after registering 4,205 Covid-19 deaths, the highest since the outbreak of the pandemic in the country in 2020, India in the last 24 hours reported 4,120 deaths, taking the total toll to 2,58,317, while 3,62,727 fresh infections took the tally of active cases to 37,10525. With 3,52,181 recoveries recorded in the last 24 hours, the total Covid-19 tally of the country stands at 23,703,665, the health ministry bulletin showed.Thursday's 24-hour tally is an increase from Wednesday's as 3,48,421 new cases were reported on Wednesday. The rise of new infections has been reported despite a slight fall in the number of tests. A total of 18,64,594 samples were tested in the last 24 hours. On May 11, about 19,83,804 samples were tested.Don’t be unrealistic on Covid-19 jabs, Centre tells statesAfter two days of fall, India's active case on Thursday rose again as the number of daily infections once again surpassed the number of daily recoveries. On Wednesday, India's total active caseload dipped to 37,04,099, which on Thursday settled at 37,10,525, registering an increase of 6,426.The country is fighting its worst battle against the pandemic with the highest rise in the number of cases, deaths — aggravated by a shortage of medical resources. However, the Centre's data projects green shoots of hope as daily recoveries exceeded daily cases in the last few days, a signal of the curve is being flattened.Though Maharashtra is reporting the highest number of daily infections, Karnataka at present has the highest number of active Covid-19 cases. In the last 24 hours, Maharashtra reported 46,781 new Covid-19 cases and 58,805 recoveries, which brought the active Covid-19 tally to 5,46,129.Karnataka, on the other hand, has 5,92,182 active cases. in the last 24 hours, the state recorded 39,998 fresh infections and 34,752 recoveries.Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday chaired a meeting to review the availability of oxygen and medicines in the country. The supply of the oxygen at present is three times the supply during the first wave peak, the PM was told. The Centre on Wednesday also sanctions ₹322.5 crore from the PM-CARES fund to procure 1,50,000 units of Oxycare System.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-records-3-62-lakh-fresh-covid-19-infections-4-120-deaths-in-24-hours-101620874967539.html
13-05-2021||India||Lack of strong regional leaders, election discourse: What BJP is discussing now||The Bharatiya Janata Party’s regional leadership; the strength of its cadre and the election discourse have come in for scrutiny within the party, post the recent round of assembly elections. Senior party leader both at the centre and the state level said the party’s performance has underscored the need to alter the electioneering model that is heavily dependent on the central leadership. While the party managed to retain power in Assam and is part of a winning coalition in Puducherry; it emerged as the principal opposition in West Bengal and won four seats in Tamil Nadu but failed to win any seats in Kerala. “There is a need to have strong faces on the ground to take on opponents. This has been a key takeaway from the West Bengal election. Though in the past the party has fought most of the elections without a chief ministerial candidate, there is a perception that it does not work anymore. While the BJP and the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi are popular, having strong local leadership is essential,” said a senior party leader in Delhi. In-charge of the WB election, Kailash Vijayvargia told HT in an interview last week that the absence of a face to take on Mamata Banerjee could have been a reason for the party’s loss. “…The other reason (for the loss) can be that Mamata Banerjee’s leadership was towering; and we could not project a local leader (as a challenger to her),” he said. Also Read | For the PM, it is time to course-correctA second leader in Delhi said in the absence of a strong cadre in Bengal, the ground situation was “misrepresented” to the party high command. “A local leader who is invested in the state will always have a better estimate about the support at the booth level. This time it seems that was misrepresented,” the second leader said, indicating that the party misread the support on the ground. Since it won the 2019 general election with an unprecedented 303 MPs in the Lok Sabha , the party has lost elections in Delhi and Jharkhand. In Maharashtra, even though it is emerged as the single-largest party, it could not form the government after falling out with its oldest ally, the Shiv Sena, over a power-sharing agreement. The party managed to retain power in Haryana only after getting support from the Jannayak Janta Party. “There was a time when the BJP had a bouquet of regional stalwarts; there were Madan Lal Khuran and Sahib Singh Verma in Delhi, leaders such as Kushabhau Thakre, Kalyan Singh, Bhairav Singh Shekhwat, all of whom had considerable hold over their regions. Now, while PM Modi is the biggest vote catcher and the most popular leader, he needs strong regional leaders to retain those votes,” said a third leader. The party’s reliance on turncoats has also been red-flagged. While some senior party leaders defend laying the red carpet for defectors from other parties as a process that is required to supplement the organic growth; there are others who feel defending a former opponent, especially those who have allegations against them weakens the party’s claims of offering an alternative. Commenting on how the lack of strong regional leaders impacts the BJP’s ambition of a pan India presence, Sandeep Shastri, vice chancellor of the Jagran Lakecity University said, “Let’s remember post 2014, the BJP won in states that it wasn’t in power in. It does well as a contender not as much as an incumbent.” Also Read | Stop posturing; start vaccinatingHe went on to add, “Increasingly, state specificities are dictating the elections; the national leadership may help create a buzz, but unless there is credible regional leadership, the party will not benefit from the campaigns (by national leaders). The national leaders are the icing on the cake, but the base has to be the regional and local units.” Election Issues Another area that has come up for discussion is the party’s election discourse. Although, the party in its election manifesto released in all states focused on development, employment and economic welfare, there is a section of leaders which has pointed out that the party erred in navigating the discourse to contentious topics. They cite the example of allowing issues such as love jihad to dominate the discourse in West Bengal and the entry of women to Sabarimala in Kerala as a case in point. In Kerala, where the dip in the vote share has set off concern, the party has set up a committee to examine the reasons for the poor showing. The BJP with zero seats saw its voteshare climb down to 11.3% from the previous election’s 15%. “The party’s vote share is at its lowest [and that] calls for serious contemplation. Even during the Jana Sangh days, the party performed better. The inability to win even a single seat is another concern that the state leaders need to address, this when the state unit president himself contested from two constituencies,” said a senior party leader from the state. The leader said the party failed to read the sentiment on the ground at a time when the state was fighting the pandemic. “Harping on Sabarimala when people were more concerned about healthcare and how to sustain their lives was counter intuitive. The state president went campaigning in a helicopter, this raised eyebrows in a state where extravagance in politics is frowned upon,” said the leader. Professor of political science at the Jawaharlal Nehru University, Ajay Gudavarthy said the BJP lost in WB by not sticking to what it plans to offer people who were alienated by the TMC. He said the party needs to focus on local issues instead of trying to replicate the discourse that works in other places. “Instead of promising accountability and development, their narrative about Love Jihad that has traction maybe in the northern states, became the overwhelming part of the discourse,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lack-of-strong-regional-leaders-election-discourse-what-bjp-is-discussing-now-101620877308909.html
13-05-2021||India||Did Congress tweets create vaccine shortage? Shashi Tharoor's salvo at Hardeep Singh Puri||Replying to Union minister Hardeep Singh Puri's jibe on social media in which he accused Congress MP Shashi Tharoor of fanning vaccine hesitancy among people, Tharoor on Thursday asked the Union minister whether his tweets have created the vaccine shortage in the country. Delinking his initial "doubts" over vaccines from the vaccine crisis in the country, Tharoor asked whether Congress tweets have also been responsible for the Centre not ordering adequate vaccines."In short, when will the BJP Government take responsibility for its manifest failures of policy & management rather than pointing fingers at the Opposition in a vain attempt to divert attention from its own poor performance?" Tharoor tweeted.'Masters of doublespeak', minister slams Cong over Covid-19 vaccine, Tharoor repliesAfter consistently airing doubts on vaccine efficacy, he has made a turnaround on 28 April 2021, but not without pointing out that he wasn’t wrong about being wrong! Imagine the situation if GoI had heeded his ‘advice’ & waited till two weeks back to start vaccine production. pic.twitter.com/u8Ngaw8BrtIn short, when will the BJP Government take responsibility for its manifest failures of policy & management rather than pointing fingers at the Opposition in a vain attempt to divert attention from its own poor performance?The attack comes amid the ongoing tirade between the Centre and the opposition leaders in which the Congress for its 'failure' in managing the crisis, while BJP ministers are accusing the Congress of indulging in vaccine politics.Shashi Tharoor, particularly, has been a target of minister Hardeep Singh Puri's attack as Puri wrote on Twitter, "Some of their leaders like Shashi Tharoor, to name one, are betraying an almost childish stubbornness in admitting their fault about India’s vaccine policy.""After consistently airing doubts on vaccine efficacy, he has made a turnaround on 28 April 2021, but not without pointing out that he wasn’t wrong about being wrong! Imagine the situation if GoI had heeded his ‘advice’ & waited till two weeks back to start vaccine production," Puri tweeted sharing screenshots of Tharoor's earlier tweets.After Bharat Biotech's Covaxin was cleared for restricted emergency use, several Congress leaders including Shashi Tharoor, Jairam Ramesh doubted the efficacy of the vaccine. After the phase 3 trial results of Covaxin were out, Tharoor congratulated the makers and said vaccine supplies should be scaled up to meet the need of the country.Amid the peak of the second wave of the coronavirus pandemic, accentuated by the shortage of medical resources and vaccines, as the Centre is facing severe criticism, BJP ministers, leaders, spokespersons are countering all allegations, one at a time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/did-congress-tweets-create-vaccine-shortage-shashi-tharoor-s-salvo-at-hardeep-singh-puri-101620876142588.html
13-05-2021||India||News updates from HT: Delhi wakes up to light drizzle, cloudy sky and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion on Thursday (May 13). Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Delhi wakes up to light drizzle, cloudy sky; mercury touches 26 degree CelsiusThe national capital on Thursday experienced light drizzle and cloudy sky as the mercury touched 26 degrees Celsius. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) had said that several parts of India are likely to face heavy to extreme-heavy rainfall, thunderstorm, and hailstorm in the next couple of days. Read MoreMaharashtra records less than 50k new Covid cases for 4th day in a rowMaharashtra is witnessing a decline in the number of new Covid-19 cases per day, and it recorded less than 50,000 new cases for the fourth consecutive day. On Wednesday, the state recorded 46,781 new cases, along with 816 deaths. The total number of Covid-19 cases in the state has now reached 5,226,710. Read MoreWATCH: Drones used in Chennai to deliver essentials to Covid patientsChennai-based startup is using drones to deliver essential items. The drones are being used to send items to isolated areas in the city. These drones have been delivering food and medicines to covid patients. Watch hereBihar govt to subsidise purchase of ambulances in rural areas under MMGPYBihar state transport department has announced subsidy on purchase of ambulances under Mukhya Mantri Gram Parivahan Yojana (MMGPY) by amending the existing vehicle options listed under the scheme. Officials said this was done to meet the increasing demand for ambulance services in rural areas. Read MoreTesla suspends Bitcoin use. Here's how mining cryptocurrency affects the climateTesla CEO Elon Musk, in what can only be called a sudden "U-turn", announced late on Wednesday that he was reversing course on the decision to use Bitcoin as an acceptable form of payment for the purchase of vehicles. Mining Bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies could leave adverse impacts on the environment, some fear. Here's the gist of the argument. Read MoreIndia plans to roll out low-cost EV charging points within two monthsIndia is planning to set up AC charging points for electric vehicles in the next two months which is aimed to bring down the cost of setting up EV charging infrastructure. According to a statement issued by the government on Wednesday, the target price for these AC charging points will start as low as ₹3,500 per unit. Read MoreRahul sir reminded me of little things, my way of playing similar to his: Abhimanyu Easwaran cherishes The Dravid EffectWith the selectors having once again shown faith in Abhimanyu, 25, will get a chance to extend his learnings as he gets set to join the Indian squad once again, for what promises to be a stiff tour of England. Read MoreWhen Shah Rukh Khan revealed why Aryan isn't allowed to be shirtless at home: 'Don’t do something a girl can’t do'Actor Shah Rukh Khan had once opened up on how a man shouldn't be without a shirt in front of his female family members and friends. The actor had also highlighted the importance of equality, adding that his sons will have no extra privileges over girls. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-delhi-wakes-up-to-light-drizzle-cloudy-sky-and-all-the-latest-news-101620875017530.html
13-05-2021||India||Gurmeet Ram Rahim taken to Rohtak PGIMS following 'blood pressure fluctuation'||Jailed Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh took ill Wednesday and was moved to PGIMS Rohtak on the advice of prison doctors, officials said.The 53-year-old chief of the Sirsa-headquartered sect would be kept under the observation of a team of doctors in the government hospital, the officials in the prisons department said.Gurmeet Ram Rahim, who has been lodged in Rohtak's Sunaria jail since 2017 following his conviction for raping his two women disciples, was examined by the doctors at the high-security prison after he complained of blood pressure-related issues, the officials said.After being examined by the jail doctors, he was taken to PGIMS at Rohtak for better observation and management, they said."He had some fluctuation in his blood pressure. On the advice of (prison) doctors, he was taken to PGIMS Rohtak," Haryana's Director General of Prisons Shatrujeet Singh Kapoor told PTI over the phone.Security has been tightened at the hospital, a police official from Rohtak told PTI, adding the sect chief had been kept in a separate ward.The dera chief was in August 2017 sentenced by a special CBI court in Panchkula to 20 years in jail in the rape case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gurmeet-ram-rahim-taken-to-rohtak-pgims-following-blood-pressure-fluctuation-101620874865573.html
13-05-2021||India||Maharashtra records less than 50K new Covid cases for 4th day in a row||Maharashtra is witnessing a decline in the number of new Covid-19 cases per day, and it recorded less than 50,000 new cases for the fourth consecutive day.On Wednesday, the state recorded 46,781 new cases, along with 816 deaths. The total number of Covid-19 cases in the state has now reached 5,226,710.There are currently 546,129 active cases across the state of which Pune has the most, 103,067 cases, followed by Nagpur with 49,345. The death toll has now reached 78,007 with Mumbai leading with 13,972 fatalities, followed by Pune with 10,176.Also Read | How DRDO has pitched in to tackle second wave of Covid-19There were a total of 252,167 tests conducted on Wednesday, while 58,805 people have recovered. The state has been reporting under-50,000 new cases since Sunday when it logged 48,401 fresh cases. On Monday and Tuesday, the state recorded 37,236 and 40,956 new cases, respectively.State health minister Rajesh Tope said that situation in the state is stabilising. “The positivity rate of the virus is coming down. In addition, the growth rate is on the decline at 0.8%, as compared to the national average of 1.4%,” said Tope.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-records-less-than-50k-new-covid-cases-for-4th-day-in-a-row-101620874488634.html
13-05-2021||India||Rain, thunderstorms likely for next 2-3 days over NW India: IMD||Thunderstorms and rain is likely to affect northwest India for the next 2-3 days, according to India Meteorological Department.A Western Disturbance as a trough (area of low pressure) is running and a cyclonic circulation is lying over Punjab and neighbourhood and an east-west trough is running from this cyclonic circulation to sub Himalayan West Bengal and Sikkim at lower levels. In addition, there is likely confluence of winds from Arabian Sea and easterly winds at lower levels over northwest India during the next 2-3 days. Under the influence of these systems, fairly widespread to widespread rainfall with isolated thunderstorm, lightning or gusty winds and hailstorm is very likely over western Himalayan region and scattered to fairly widespread rainfall with isolated thunderstorm or lightning or gusty winds over plains of northwest India during the next two days. Isolated heavy rainfall is also likely over Uttarakhand on May 12 and over Punjab and Haryana and Chandigarh on May 13.Also Read | Low depression over Arabian Sea likely to intensify into cyclonic storm by May 16: IMDUnder the influence of above mentioned east-west trough at lower levels and north-south trough over northeast India at middle tropospheric levels, fairly widespread to widespread rainfall or thunderstorm activity is very likely to continue over northeastern states and West Bengal and Sikkim and isolated to scattered rain/thundershower over rest parts of east India during the next 2-3 days and decrease in intensity & distribution thereafter. A low pressure area is very likely to form over southeast Arabian Sea around May 14 morning. It is very likely to concentrate into a depression over Lakshadweep area and adjoining southeast and eastcentral Arabian Sea by May 14.It is very likely to move north-northwestwards and intensify further into a cyclonic storm over eastcentral Arabian Sea around May 16 and continue to move north-northwestwards for some more time with further intensification. Under its influence, heavy to very heavy rainfall is likely at a few places during May 14 to 16 including Lakshadweep, Kerala, and coastal Karnataka. Fishermen are advised not to venture out to the southeast Arabian Sea and adjoining Maldives, Comorin and Lakshadweep area, Kerala coast from morning of May 13 and east central Arabian sea and along and off Karnataka-Goa and Maharashtra and Goa coasts from the night of May 14. Those, who are at sea are advised to return to the coast by the night of May 12.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rain-thunderstorms-likely-for-next-2-3-days-over-nw-india-imd-101620873889514.html
13-05-2021||India||Covid-19 hospitals, oxygen generation, 2-DG drug: How DRDO has pitched in to tackle second wave||The Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO)'s primary task is to develop state of the art weapons, strategic missiles and ballistic missiles submarines, but the raging pandemic in India has forced the organisation to change its focus from missile test firing to deter adversaries to saving lives of Covid-hit Indians.The organisation has made makeshift hospitals with negative pressure tents to help those need specialised medical care due to Covid-19. The specifications of the hospital infrastructure on the ICU beds, oxygen beds and normal beds was worked out in consultation with the state health authorities.The equipment for Covid-19 care is provided as per specified standards, the DRDO said. The maintenance and upkeep of the equipment is round-the-clock at a time when the spread of Covid-19 has led to lockdown-like conditions in several states, it added.Nine hospitals for Covid-19 have been set up by the DRDO in cities like Delhi, Ahmedabad, Lucknow, Varanasi, Gandhi Nagar, Haldwani, Rishikesh, Jammu and Srinagar. The biggest among them is the Dhanvantri Covid Care Hospital in Gandhi Nagar which has 700 oxygen beds and 200 ICU beds. In Delhi, Sardar Patel Covid Care Centre has 500 ICU beds.Also Read: From Himvir to Corona warrriors, ITBP shows the wayThe DRDO has also ordered the installation of oxygen generation plants at various hospitals across the country. The organisation said that these oxygen plants can generate up to 1,000 litres of oxygen per minute which can cater up to 190 patients. These plants can also charge up to 195 cylinders per day.The research organisation said that first two oxygen plants arrived in Delhi and were operationalised at AIIMS and Ram Manohar Lohia (RML) hospitals in the city on May 6. The next three plants arriving in Delhi will be installed at Lady Hardinge Medical College, Safdarjung hospital and AIIMS in Jhajjar.The DRDO has also taken an initiative to rope in more industry partners for ramping up the production of lower capacity medical oxygen plants for smaller hospitals.To give further boost to oxygen production, DRDO also developed its own oxygen supply system based on SpO2 (oxygen saturation) level. The system - called Oxycare - consists of two variants - manual and automatic. It was developed by the DRDO's Bengaluru-based Defence Bio-Engineering and Electro Medical Laboratory (DEBEL) for soldiers posted at extreme high-altitude areas.The government on Wednesday approved the procurement of 1,50,000 units of the 'Oxycare' system. The DRDO has already transferred the technology to multiple industries in India for large-scale production of the system.Apart from this, the DRDO's laboratory working on safety research has given more than 100, large cylinders of 1,200 litres to hospitals made by the government agency. One of the DRDO's labs has developed an anti-Covid-19 therapeutic application of the drug 2-deoxy-D-glucose (2-DG). Clinical trial results have shown that this molecule helps in faster recovery of hospitalised patients and reduces supplemental oxygen dependence.On May 1, the Drugs Controller General of India’s (DCGI) granted permission for emergency use of the drug as adjunct therapy in moderate to severe Covid-19 patients after successful phase 3 trials. The drug comes in powder form in sachet, which is taken orally by dissolving it in water.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-hospitals-oxygen-generation-2-dg-drug-how-drdo-has-pitched-in-to-tackle-second-wave-101620872205874.html
13-05-2021||India||American India Foundation raises $25 million as Covid-19 aid, highest so far||An Indian-American non-profit body has raised $25 million for Covid-19 assistance to India as the country battles a severe outbreak of the viral disease, its functionaries said."So far, we have ordered and have commitments for 5,500 oxygen concentrators, 2,300 hospital beds, 25 oxygen plants, and 30,000 non-electric ventilators," Nishant Pandey, CEO of the American India Foundation (AIF), told PTI on Wednesday.AIF, which was founded in the aftermath of the Gujarat earthquake at the initiative of the then US president Bill Clinton and the then Prime Minister late Atal Bihari Vajpayee, has raised $25 million so far, making it the highest amount raised by an Indian-American non-profit body.Sewa International USA has raised over $17 million so far."The response has been immense and humbling from AIF’s perspective. We have always worked closely with the Indian-American diaspora but the giving we have seen is beyond that and includes those in the community that was not previously connected to AIF," Pandey said."From $5-500,000, Americans have stepped up for the people in India, further cementing the relationship between these two nations. Corporate America as well has gone far beyond what we have seen in the past," he added.Pandey expressed his gratitude to Americans and the Biden administration for committing heavily to the crisis."Your investment in AIF’s work and the many others working to aid India has made a difference that we are just beginning to see. I would say, keep the faith and keep believing in India. Our countries share a very special relationship and while India needs the US and its people now, the US and its people need India as well," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/american-india-foundation-raises-25-million-as-covid-19-aid-highest-so-far-101620870252240.html
13-05-2021||India||Bharat Biotech, Serum Institute submit Covid vaccine production plans for next 4 months to Centre||The Covid-19 vaccine production of the country will be accelerated in the next coming months as both Pune's Serum Institute of India and Hyderabad's Bharat Biotech are ramping up their monthly production capacity and have submitted their plans for the coming four months to the Centre. In a meeting on Wednesday with seven states/UTs which are lagging behind in terms of vaccinating people against Covid-19, Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan said India's vaccine production is likely to reach eight crore doses in May and 9 crore doses in June.After Maharashtra, Karnataka suspends Covid vaccines for 18-44 from Fridayमैंने राज्यों के स्वास्थ्य मंत्रियों को बताया कि देश में वैक्सीन का उत्पादन मई के महीने में करीब 8 करोड़ होने की संभावना है और जून में यह लगभग 9 करोड़ होगा। इसके उत्पादन को और गति देने के लिए केंद्र सरकार कंपनियों को हर संभव सहयोग दे रही है। @PMOIndia pic.twitter.com/tQNzzqwZ7ZThe pace of vaccination has got stymied in some states like Maharashtra, Karnataka and Delhi as they do not have adequate vaccines to inoculate both the population below 45 and above 45, simultaneously. Since the administration of the second doses is of priority, the states are mulling halting the vaccination of the people between the age group of 18 to 44 years.Serum, Bharat Biotech submit production plan to CentreNudged by the Centre and the Drugs Controller General of India, both the vaccine makers have submitted their production plan for June, July, August and September, news agency PTI reported. According to the plan, Bharat Biotech is all set to raise the production of Covaxin to 3.32 crore doses in July and 7.82 crore in August. Serum Institute aims at increasing the production up to 10 crore doses in August.3 public sector companies to produce CovaxinApart from Hyderabad's Bharat Biotech facility, three public sector companies, including Mumbai's Haffkine Biopharmaceutical Corporation Ltd, Hyderabad's Indian Immunologicals Limited and Bulandshah's Bharat Immunologicals and Biologicals Limited, have been given the nod to produce Covaxin.States are floating global tenders to procure vaccines from abroadRajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Delhi have decided to float global tenders to procure vaccines from abroad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-vaccine-production-to-reach-8-crore-doses-by-may-says-harsh-vardhan-101620870311166.html
13-05-2021||India||Bengal Guv Dhankhar to visit areas affected by post-poll violence||West Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar will on Thursday visit the areas affected by post-poll violence. He will go to Cooch Behar district, where four villagers were killed in firing by Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) personnel at Sitalkuchi during polling on April 10.“West Bengal Governor will reach Cooch Behar by BSF Helicopter at 11 am on May 13 to visit post-poll violence affected areas @MamataOfficial. Governor will visit places at Mathabhanga, Sitalkuchi, Sitai and Dinhata. Governor will meet people & media at CB Circuit House," Dhankhar tweeted.The governor also said that on Friday he will go to Assam where Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) ministers have claimed that people from north Bengal have taken shelter to escape the violence that erupted after the Bengal assembly election results were announced on May 2.“Governor WB Jagdeep Dhankhar will be visiting Ranpagli & Srirampur camps in Assam where due to post poll retributive violence @MamataOfficial some people of WB had taken refuge for safety. Governor Dhankhar will be reaching Ranpagli Assam at 9.45 am by BSF Helicopter,” Dhankhar tweeted.Meanwhile, West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee has accused Dhankhar of violating norms and planning to visit Cooch Behar. She wrote a letter to the governor, citing rules and provisions.“I find from social media that you are unilaterally proceeding to the district of Cooch Behar on 13-5-2021 and, sadly, I find that to be violative of the long-standing norms as evolved over several decades. I, therefore, would expect that you will kindly follow the well-established norms of protocol, as stated above and desist from abrupt decisions with regard to field visits,” the letter read.Responding to Banerjee's letter, Dhankhar tweeted, "In response @MamataOfficial urged her to revisit her stance & commit to constitution that by oath she is obligated to uphold & follow. This is time to address issues being faced by people in deep distress. Assured her of my fullest cooperation within constitutional parameters."The Trinamool Congress (TMC) got 213 seats against 77 by the BJP. However, in Cooch Behar and other districts of north Bengal region, the BJP bagged 30 of the 54 seat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-guv-dhankhar-to-visit-areas-affected-by-post-poll-violence-101620865908136.html
13-05-2021||India||Parliament panel asks govt to ramp up production of doses in March||A parliamentary standing committee, headed by Congress MP Jairam Ramesh, recommended in March that the central government “ramp up production of the two approved vaccines” — Covaxin and Covishield — and ensure their availability to a wider population.The 31-member panel on science and technology, environment, forests and climate change, which comprises 14 members from the Bharatiya Janata Party, tabled the report in Parliament on March 8.Noting the efforts of the Department of Biotechnology towards ensuring the timely development the vaccine, the panel recommended it to strengthen “on its part, the efforts for ramping up the production capacity of the two approved vaccines as well as provide all research, laboratory infrastructure and capacity building support to the other vaccine candidates in the pipeline, in order to ensure the availability of a safe, affordable, and efficacious vaccine to the wider population as soon as possible”.Asked about the recommendations , Ramesh said: “India needs around 1.9 billion doses to fully vaccinate all adults. It was clear to the Standing Committee from the data presented by the government that the current production capacity is inadequate to meet that demand. That’s why we recommended that the production capacity must be ramped up as soon as possible. Alas, this wasn’t done, and now we are facing a massive vaccine shortage,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliament-panel-asks-govt-to-ramp-up-production-of-doses-in-march-101620865454076.html
13-05-2021||India||Fresh guidelines for Assam to curb Covid-19 spread: Check details here||In an attempt to curb the Covid-19 outbreak in the state, Assam will have more restrictions and strict containment measures from Thursday. The decision was taken by newly-formed Himanta Biswa Sarma government.In a tweet, Sarma said, “To contain #Covid cases, more restrictions & containment measures would be put in place from May 13, 2021. Detailed SOP will be issued on Wednesday. In case restrictions have to continue for more than a fortnight, Govt will consider financial relief package for weaker sections.”Assam on Tuesday recorded 6,258 fresh Covid-19 positive cases and 85 deaths. The state has nearly 40,000 active coronavirus cases.Here are the fresh guidelines for Assam:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fresh-guidelines-for-assam-to-curb-covid-19-spread-check-details-here-101620863872121.html
13-05-2021||India||Footprint of B.1.617 now spreads to 44 countries||Three lineages of a variant of the SARS-Cov-2 virus first seen in India now account for 66% of all samples tested in the most recent 45 days, according to data from India submitted to a global repository (GISAID) even as other data submitted to the same repository indicates that the variant has now spread to several parts of the world with a rapid increase in prevalence in several regions.The data adds to evidence that the variant could be more infectious, pointing to the public health challenge across the world, but in India, especially, where many scientists and epidemiologists believe that variants such as this one, named B.1.617, may be behind the surging second wave of the coronavirus disease pandemic that has seen the country add almost 10 million cases of Covid-19 in the past month, with the last five being added in two weeks.The World Health Organization (WHO) said in its weekly Covid-19 epidemiology update that the B.1.617 variant with its three sub-lineages has been found in 44 countries.While studies on the extent of protection offering by existing vaccines against the variant continue, preliminary research in India suggests that vaccinations using the two vaccines widely used in the country do continue to protect even those infected by the variant against severe illness and death.The variant’s rapid rise has now triggered alarm in several countries, including the UK which has found it to be responsible for the second highest number of infections and where experts have urged the government to rethink the May 17 lifting of curbs.B.1.617 -- first detected in India last October and described by Indian officials in late March by the misnomer “double mutant” -- was classified as a variant of concern (VOC) globally by WHO on Monday, and a particular sub-lineage – the B.1.617.2 – was similarly flagged by authorities in the UK last week.Also Read | Don’t be unrealistic on Covid-19 jabs, Centre tells states“In consultation with the WHO Sars-CoV-2 Virus Evolution Working Group, WHO has determined that viruses within the lineage B.1.617 have been characterised as a VOC,” the world body explained in its Covid-19 Weekly Epidemiological Update released on Wednesday. WHO said its decision was based on two reasons: “B.1.617 sub-lineages appear to have higher rates of transmission, including observed rapid increases in prevalence in multiple countries (moderate evidence available for B.1.617.1 and B.1.617.2)” and “preliminary evidence suggests potential reduced effectiveness of Bamlanivimab, a monoclonal antibody used for Covid-19 treatment, and potentially slightly reduced susceptibility to neutralisation antibodies (limited evidence available for B.1.617.1).”Wider Indian spreadAccording to an analysis of genomic data from India to the GISAID global repository, the B.1.617.1 and B.1.617.2 account for two-thirds of the samples uploaded in the last 45 days – with the latter’s rise particularly stark.The outbreak.info analysis estimates B.1.617.2 may have grown in prevalence from 9% of cases at the end of March to over 80% at the end of April, although the assessment is dependent on the samples submitted to GISAID and is unlikely to be a random selection.Also Read | States can procure only 20 million Covid-19 jabs for 18+ in MayGujarat, Delhi, Bihar and Chhattisgarh are the top states where the proportion of B.1.617.2 samples is high, although the number of samples sequenced varies significantly between states. Uttar Pradesh, the largest state by population, has sequenced only 83 samples since the start of the pandemic, while Maharashtra has done over 3,300.Experts have flagged the low genome sequencing in India, a problem also recognised in the WHO report: “Approximately 0.1% of positive samples in India have been sequenced and uploaded to GISAID to identify Sars-CoV-2 variants,” the report released on Wednesday said.Global concernGlobally, there are now four VOCs – B.1.617, B.1.1.7 (first seen in the UK), B.1.351 (first recorded in South Africa) and P.1 (first seen in Brazil). Of these, the variant from UK demonstrated a transmission advantage unlike any Sars-Cov-2 version before, triggering new waves of infection where it was first seen and in several other European nations.Experts say that the India-linked variant now appears to be outcompeting it in epidemiological terms, which could indicate it to have an evolutionary advantage.“Tracking frequencies over time in sequence data shared to @gisaid shows a continued increase in B.1.617, while recent weeks have shown a decline in B.1.1.7,” said Trevor Bedford, a scientist at the Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center, in a series of tweets analysing the genomic clues.“The observed rapid growth of this (sub)-lineage in India and elsewhere would suggest that this virus is potentially highly transmissible. If faster growth than B.1.1.7 in India and in the UK is conclusive, it would suggest that this lineage will spread widely,” he added.Click here for complete Covid-19 coverageChristina Pagel, director of the clinical operational research unit at University College London, said the rise in B.1.617.2 cases was concerning enough to delay the next stage of the UK’s reopening roadmap.“Under ‘current restrictions’, within a context of [very] infectious B117 (”Kent” variant) and ‘high population immunity’ B.1.617.2 seems to be spreading quickly. Numbers still low(ish) but for how much longer? What will happen after 17th May when so much more opens?” she said in a tweet on May 10, urging the government to step-up surveillance.Mutation under lensA variant of a Sars-Cov-2 typically has multiple changes in its genome – or mutations – which change how the virus can behave. The B.1.617 lineage is split into three -- B.1.617.1, B.1.617.2 and B.1.617.3 -- that largely have the same set of mutations, except for some small variations.Among these, two are common: L452R and P681R (these letters mean the amino acid at site 452 changed from leucine to arginine and at site 681 from proline to arginine). Except for B.1.617.2, the other two variants also have the E484Q mutation.“...Mutations in these variants may result in increased ACE2 binding and rate of S1-S2 cleavage resulting in better transmissibility, and possibly capacity to escape binding and neutralization by some monoclonal antibodies. In a preliminary study on hamsters, infection with B.1.617.1 resulted in increased body weight loss, higher viral load in lungs and pronounced lung lesions as compared to B.1 variants (D614G),” WHO said.Several studies released by scientists in recent days have shown that some of B.1.617 family of the virus are more transmissible, lead to more severe disease, and be somewhat resistant to some lab-grown antibodies, but it isn’t clear yet if they can make vaccines or immunity from a past infection redundant to any significant degree.In one of the studies, published late on Sunday, on Biorxiv, the researchers zeroed in on the P681R, which has also been seen in the variant first spotted in UK. “We find that P681R is associated with enhanced capacity to induce cell-cell fusion and syncitia formation, and that P681R alone confers this ability on the B.1.617.1 spike with RBD mutations L452R and E484Q ,” said the team of researchers led by scientists from Cambridge.Syncitia is a phenomenon where multiple cells fuse to create what are known as giant cells. The scientists explained that the P681R mutation occurs at a location of the virus that takes the shape of a spike to first latch onto human cells, before it splits – or cleaves – in order to enter the cell. This site is known as the polybasic cleavage site (PCBS). “Virus infectivity and fusogenicity mediated by the PBCS is a key determinant of pathogenicity and transmissibility and there are indications that giant cells/syncitia formation are associated with fatal disease,” the authors said.Among the assessments they carried out was the case analysis of 33 staff members of a Delhi health facility who were infected by the coronavirus after having been vaccinated, most of whom had contracted the new variant, although none developed severe symptoms.“The loss of neutralisation of B.1.617 (by vaccinated serum) has likely contributed to an epidemic wave in India where background infection to the Wuhan-1 D614G in 2020 was between 20-50%,” said the authors in the study, which is yet to be peer reviewed.“What we found was a reduction in the ability of the antibodies to neutralise this variant, but they weren’t ineffective. There are infections reported in vaccinated individuals but all vaccines protect against severe disease,” said Dr Anurag Agarwal, one of the authors of the paper and director of Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology. “Breakthroughs are being seen with both (all) vaccines though. Not rare anymore, clearly. In vast majority, but not all, disease is mild,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/footprint-of-b-1-617-now-spreads-to-44-countries-101620860017652.html
13-05-2021||India||Don’t be unrealistic on Covid-19 jabs, Centre tells states||States should not have any unrealistic and impractical expectations when it comes to coronavirus vaccines, especially with the limited supplies currently, Union health minister Harsh Vardhan said on Wednesday as he reviewed the immunisation progress with health ministers of eight states.The Union government has made it mandatory for vaccine makers in India – at present, the two shots being used widely are both made in India – to keep 50% of their doses for the central supply, while the remaining will be evenly split between private procurers and state governments.The health minister said this was done to ensure the equitable distribution of vaccines across the country and to make sure that people who needed second doses were not left stranded. The government’s policy has been criticised by several sates who have said that they are not receiving enough doses to vaccinate people in the 18-44 age group, inoculation for which began on May 1.Click here for complete Covid-19 coverageHe said that the country’s total vaccine production capacity in the month of May was going to touch about 80 million doses, which was expected to go up to about 90 million doses by June. Vardhan said the central government was making all efforts to further ramp up vaccine production in the country in the coming weeks.“There is a limit to the number of Covid-19 vaccine doses available at a particular time, and in a particular month. Keeping that limit in mind, scientifically, and systematically, the vaccine doses are divided, and related information is duly shared with the states. So, all states know how many vaccine doses are available to them at a particular time, and how much is there in the pipeline. Therefore, I specially request you all to understand the gravity and seriousness of the issue, and don’t have any unrealistic or impractical expectations,” the health minister said.“We should also ensure that there is rational and judicious use of vaccines without any wastage,” he added.“Also, the vaccines that are being manufactured outside India, especially those that received USFDA and other major regulatory approvals, and WHO approval, these vaccines have also been given easier provision for getting emergency use authorisation. To win the Covid-19 battle in the country, a big weapon was added into the test, track, and treat list, and that is Covid-19 vaccination, which Prime Minister Narendra Modi launched on January 16...,” he said during the review.Also Read | States can procure only 20 million Covid-19 jabs for 18+ in MayWhile the health minister acknowledged that India was the fastest country globally to reach the landmark of 170 million doses in 114 days, he also pointed out that out of these, the second dose has been administered to only to close to 40 million. The first dose has so far been administered to about 131 million beneficiaries.“Hence it is very important that we first focus more on second dose vaccinations. States should not lose sight of those who are to get the second dose of COVID vaccine: 70% at minimum ought to be allocated to meet the requirement of second dose, while 30% ought to be reserved for the first dose.” Dr Harsh Vardhan also urged states to ensure that the healthcare workers and frontline workers are fully vaccinated, as they form the vulnerable categories,” he said.The states that participated in the review were Uttarakhand, Haryana, Punjab, Bihar, Jharkhand, Odisha and Telangana, along with the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir.The health minister also highlighted the trajectory of Covid-19 in these states, and how the rising cases were putting stress on the medical infrastructure.“Although in the last 24 hours, 3.48 lakh new cases were registered, a net decline of 11,122 cases is recorded in the active caseload. This is the second consecutive day of decline in the active cases,” he said, and emphasised upon the continued need to follow Covid-19-appropriate behavior.He also said there should also be stringent focus on containment measures for addressing the present surge, especially creating micro-containment zones to track and isolate cases.According to the director, National Centre for Disease Control, Dr SK Singh, the apparent disease shift towards younger population was driven by the fact that higher age groups have been vaccinated in considerable proportion by now.“There should be ramp up of testing and vaccination in peri-urban areas as the spread is now going to peri-urban and rural places. Irrespective of the Covid-19 variants, measures for preparedness and protection remain the same,” Dr Singh said.Experts also said it could be a reason, even though the pattern needs to be further analysed in detail. “Younger people are now apparently getting infected more because a greater proportion of young people are susceptible (not infected so far), and not vaccinated,” said Dr Giridhara R Babu, head, epidemiology, Indian Institute of Public Health.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dont-be-unrealistic-on-covid-19-jabs-centre-tells-states-101620859453531.html
13-05-2021||India||UK variant of Covid-19 detected in samples sent from Rajasthan for genome sequencing||Rajasthan health minister Raghu Sharma on Wednesday said the UK strain of Covid-19 has been found in a few samples sent from Rajasthan for genome sequencing. The report was received two days ago.“We had sent samples for genome sequencing. In the samples, the UK strain was found,” he said. On the directions given by chief minister Ashok Gehlot, officials have started the process of setting up genome sequencing facilities at the SMS Medical College in Jaipur. The facility will be developed soon, he said. Sharma said genome sequencing facility is there at 10 places in the country, which are under the Central government and all states submit the samples there. “Once we know about the strain and other details, the line of treatment may be updated accordingly,” he added. On the shortage of vaccines, he said there is approximately 2.9 crore population in the 45 plus category, including 10% wastage of vaccine, the state needs about 4.5 crore doses. Till date, the Centre has provided 1.5 crore doses and 3 crore more are required. “We need 7 crore doses to vaccinate the 18 plus population. We have ordered 3.75 crore vaccines from the Serum Institute of India but the supply has not been made on time then how can the vaccination be done. Covaxin is expensive then also the state has ordered 2.5 lakh vaccines to continue the inoculation drive,” he said. He informed that in the wake of the third wave, which might affect children, the CM has directed to ensure centralized oxygen system through the pipeline in all hospitals meant for children across the state. All hospitals will be made fully equipped. Sharma said in Rajasthan, the number of active Covid-19 cases has reached 2.05 lakh while a total of 5994 Covid-19 patients have died so far. The daily active cases are varying between 15,000-18,000, and the death figures are also fluctuating between 150-165, which is a serious concern. “The infection rate is above 8%, we are among the top five states where active cases have crossed 2 lakh. The government is conducting a door-to-door survey and distributing medicines - till date 6 lakh ILI cases have been identified,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uk-variant-of-covid-19-detected-in-samples-sent-from-rajasthan-for-genome-sequencing-101620847786356.html
13-05-2021||India||‘Indian variant’ term not linked with B.1.617: Govt||The Centre said on Wednesday the World Health Organization (WHO) has not associated the term “Indian variant” with B.1.617, which has now been classified as a “variant of concern” by the global body.The World Health Organziation on Monday said the coronavirus variant first identified in India last year was being classified as a variant of global concern, with some preliminary studies showing that it spreads more easily. The B.1.617 variant is the fourth variant to be designated as being of global concern and requiring heightened tracking and analysis. The others are those first detected in the US, South Africa and Brazil.“Several media reports have covered the news of World Health Organisation (WHO) classifying B.1.617 as variant of global concern. Some of these reports have termed the B.1.617 variant of the coronavirus as an ‘Indian Variant’. These media reports are without any basis, and unfounded,” a statement by the Press Information Bureau said.“This is to clarify that WHO has not associated the term ‘Indian Variant’ with the B.1.617 variant of the coronavirus in its 32-page document. In fact, the word ‘Indian’ has not been used in its report on the matter,” the government’s statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-variant-term-not-linked-with-b-1-617-govt-101620847545696.html
13-05-2021||India||Bodies found in Buxar not from state, says Bihar; toll reaches 76||Bihar said on Friday that bodies seen floating in the Ganga in Buxar district were not from the state as five more corpses were fished out of the river in the same spot, taking the toll to 76.Bihar water resources minister Sanjay Kumar Jha said the state had no tradition of consigning bodies in rivers and said a probe revealed the corpses were four to five days old. “The way dozens of corpses were found near Bihar’s borders is inhuman and an insult of Ganga…the bodies have come from far away,” he said, asking the central government to investigate the incident.His comments came a day after the Union government said it had taken serious note of the issue and the National Mission for Clean Ganga wrote to all states, asking them to prohibit dumping of bodies in the river.In Buxar, Chausa block development officer Ashok Kumar said big fishing nets were used at Mahadeva ghat Chausa village, where bodies were first spotted three days ago. He said the bodies seemed to have come from direction of UP. The Buxar administration has put big fishing nets near Chausa to prevent the bodies being washed further downstream.“A team of doctors have also been called for autopsy of the bodies. Only after postmortem, the last rites of dead bodies are being done,” said Buxar sadar sub-divisional officer KK Upadhyay.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bodies-found-in-buxar-not-from-state-says-bihar-toll-reaches-76-101620847185588.html
13-05-2021||India||HC: Shift vaccine centres from hospitals to avoid crowding||Chennai: The Madras High Court on Wednesday asked the state government to remove the Covid-19 vaccination centres from hospitals and shift them to other locations to prevent crowding and spread of the infection.A bench comprising of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy made these observations while hearing in the suo motu case for the court to monitor preparedness of Covid-19 second wave in Tamil Nadu and Puducherry. “In order to reduce the fear, stress and crowding among the people, we are asking to shift the vaccination centres from the hospital and set up at other places of public convenience,” said the bench adding that special steps to vaccinate people with disabilities should be considered. The government submitted a status report that Tamil Nadu is experiencing a shortage in vaccines. The state has received a total of 76.99 lakh vaccine doses to be used for those above 45 years of age out of which 65.88 lakh doses has been utilised. For the age group of 18-44, the Centre allocated 13.85 lakh doses for which the state is permitted to place orders and an advance of payment has been made. 5.16 lakh doses have come in but the remaining 8.68 lakh doses are yet to be received. The state has more than 3,000 vaccination sites. The court had asked if Tamil Nadu, like other states, plans to issue a global tender. Later in the day, the government announced that it will procure vaccines from international markets due to insufficiency. The state’s newly appointed Advocate General (AG) R Shunmughasundaram also submitted that 250,000 vials of Remdesivir have been received. The minimum requirement is 20,000 vials per day, however, the allocation is only 7,000 vials per day. He added that measures are also being adopted to increase the oxygen supply and other drugs like Remdesivir.During the hearing, the Additional Solicitor General R Sankaranarayanan submitted that the Central government has increased the allocation of oxygen to the state from 419 tonnes a day to 519 tonnes a day.However, the bench pointed out the state’s concern that 800 MT of oxygen would be required on a daily basis soon given the rising number of active cases. In the earlier two hearings the court had asked the state to consider a plan B like requesting DRDO to set up an oxygen facility like in New Delhi to which the ASG on Wednesday informed that it was done by request sent to the PM Cares. The bench asked the AG to make a similar approach.The case was adjourned to Thursday for the central and state to file their submissions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hc-shift-vaccine-centres-from-hospitals-to-avoid-crowding-101620847006866.html
13-05-2021||India||Stalin appoints new officers to key administrative positions||Chennai: M K Stalin has appointed officers with a good track record to key administrative positions after he took oath as Tamil Nadu chief minister last week. Anti-corruption activists and political analysts are of the opinion that, both new DMK loyalists and experienced officers from the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) regime have been retained to ensure a good set of hands are at the helm during a pandemic.A look at five personnel in key postings- 1. P Kandasamy, Director, Directorate of Vigilance and anti-Corruption (DVAC)Kandasamy prefers to remain low-key perhaps why didn’t draw a lot of attention until social media recalled that he was in the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) team that arrested present Union home minister Amit Shah, during his tenure as a minister in Gujarat in 2010, for his alleged involvement in the Sohrabuddin encounter case. At that time Kandasamy was deputed to the CBI for five years as the CBI deputy inspector general of police, Chennai and CBI joint director, Mumbai.Shah was later discharged. Kandasamy who is of the rank of a DGP and his appointment to head the DVAC comes at a time when the DMK has promised to try all charges of corruption under the outgoing AIADMK government headed by Edappadi K Palaniswami. The DMK, in its election manifesto, had promised to constitute a specialcourt to try cases against AIADMK ministers accused of graft. A 1989 batch officer, Kandasamy holds a Master’s degree in public policy from University of California, Berkeley, and is presently pursuing a part time PhD in the department of management studies at IIT-Madras. He has served in various districts, including Madurai, as police commissioner.Before his transfer to this post, he was special director general of police, administration. He won the President of India Police Medal for meritorious service in 2006 and the Tamil Nadu chief minister’s medal for excellence in public service in 2019 under the AIADMK regime. 2. R Shunmugasundaram, Advocate General, Tamil NaduA leading criminal lawyer, Shunmugasundaram was a DMK Rajya Sabha member from 2002-2008. He is said to be the chief architect in the high-profile disproportionate assets (DA) case in which the Supreme Court found late former chief minister J Jayalalithaa, her close aide V K Sasikala and two others guilty. “It is a challenging battle when you prosecute a chief minister who came back to power and stalled the case,” says Shunmugasundaram. “In the history of the country, this is the only state and party that has pursued a case where a former dispensation was prosecuted. Normally such steps aren’t taken because it may come back to you. I had the privilege of being a lawyer in this case.” Shanmugasundaram was attacked at his Chennai residence on May 30, 1995, while preparing to file a case of corruption against Jayalalithaa. “But that never stopped me.” A designated senior advocate, Shunmugasundaram served as the state public prosecutor from 1996 to 2001 in the Madras high court. During this he was appointed as amicus curiae in the London hotel case (one of the DA cases filed) against Jayalalithaa in which Sasikala’s nephew T T V Dinakaran was another accused. The case was, however, withdrawn later. He was appointed as a counsel for Tamil Nadu before the Justice M C Jain Commission of Inquiry to assist the probe into the assassination of former prime minister Rajiv Gandhi. His first appearance as Tamil Nadu’s Advocate General was on Monday before the first bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy, who are hearing suo motu case on the Covid-19 management in the state. His association with the DMK goes back to 1992 when he appeared for G Vaiko’s (who was with DMK at that time) brother and Subbulakshmi Jagadeesan (who was defeated this election) in the sensational Padmanabha murder case. He also appeared for Karunanidhi’s family members- Kanimozhi and later Dayalu Ammal in the 2G case. In 2001, Murasoli Maran wanted him to assist with the party’s legal matters in the Rajya Sabha, he said. Shanmugasundaram was head of the DMK’s legal wing until he was posted as AG.3. Gagandeep Singh Bedi, Commissioner, Greater Chennai CorporationBedi was agriculture secretary in the previous AIADMK government and is being retained by the DMK as he is known to be a clean hand and also a disaster management expert. “Bedi’s report on illegal sand mining in Tamil Nadu is instrumental till date with Jayalalithaa banning beach sand mining and subsequent court orders on the issue,” Jayaram Venkatesan, founder of anti-corruption movement, Arappor Iyakkam, said. A 1993 batch officer, Bedi had initially served as commissionerof Madurai corporation (1999 to 2001) and district collector of Kanyakumari and Cuddalore in (2001 to 2007).He played a key role in rescue and rehabilitation work after the 2004 tsunami caused havoc in coastal Cuddalore. Former American president Bill Clinton even spent a day with him to understand the relief work. Bedi also handled major floods in 2005 and 2015 and cyclonesin the sensitive districts of Cuddalore, Nagapattinam and Kanyakumari. As civic chief of Chennai, which has the highest caseload of Covid-19 in the state, Bedi, after taking over, said, “My immediate focus is to break the chain, reduce positivity rate and increase oxygen beds.” Bedi has planned to introduce a 100-bed facility with oxygen concentrators in each of the three regions in Chennai and has also brought about changes such as providing a medicine kit to anyone who takes an RT-PCR test to ensure they do not have to wait to be treated until the test results arrive.4. Shilpa Prabhakar, head, CM in your Constituency‘CM in your constituency’ is a new department created by Stalin to resolve public grievances within 100 days of forming the government - a promise he made during his poll campaign ‘Stalin in your constituency’. Prabhakar has been handed over the keys of the box in which the petitions, that were collected during the poll campaign, were kept locked and sealed till the beginning of the new government. Prabhakar was deputy commissioner for education in the Greater Chennai Corporation where she roped in NGOs to offer corporation students more learning and extracurricular activities. In 2019, she admitted her child in a government-run anganwadi in Tirunelveli where she was posted as a district collector. She also drew public attention when she climbed atop 40 and 80-feet water tanks to check its cleanliness.5. V Irai Anbu, chief secretary, Tamil NaduA seasoned IAS officer and writer, who a day ago, instructed government officials not to buy books written by him and present them to him at events. Anbu also warned his officials to deduct money from their salary if they used public funds for this purpose, and deposit them into a government account. The chief secretary also wrote to the School Education Department, asking officials not to buy his books till he holds the post.Political observers believe that his integrity caused him to be sidelined with unimportant portfolios earlier. “ “All officers appointed are efficient and one of the reasons for Irai Anbu’s appointment could be to have a more cordial relationship with the Prime Minister’s Office,” said political commentator Maalan Narayanan.Anbu received the Si Pa Aditanar Literary Award for the year 2017 from Prime Minister Narendra Modi. His brother, V Thiruppugazh, has a closer connection with Modi. Thiruppugazh, a 1995 batch officer of the Gujarat cadre, had served as Modi’s secretary in 2005-06 when the latter served as Gujarat chief minister. Thiruppugazh served in the Modi administration at the Centre too and was appointed as Advisor in the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) in 2017.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stalin-appoints-new-officers-to-key-administrative-positions-101620847006232.html
13-05-2021||India||Spate of cloudburst like events cause damage on Char Dham project route||This year’s Char Dham yatra, a pilgrimmage to the four holy shrines in the state of Uttarakhand, may have been scaled down to a symbolic event on account of the pandemic, but recent meteorological events highlight the dangers facing the ongoing project to widen the road connecting the four shrines, the Char Dham highway.An analysis by India Meteorological Department concludes that a cloudburst like event occurred in the upper reaches of Devprayag in Tehri Garhwal district on Tuesday evening leading to a sudden rise in water flow in a seasonal rivulet, Gadera. Heavy flow of water in the rivulet damaged buildings, other infrastructure and took debris up to Alaknanda.Environmentalists opposed to the Char Dham project, which envisages the widening of the Char Dham highway -- the Supreme Court will hear a case related to this on May 13 -- fear that if a cloudburst were to occur in the midst of the roadwork, it could prove disastrous for the workers, and damage the hills even more.A bench comprising Justice Vineet Saran and Justice Dinesh Maheshwari posted the matter for hearing while observing that issue of widening of roads leading to the China border is of national importance.“Our data indicates about 25 mm rain in an hour was recorded at Devprayag. If you go by the exact definition of cloudburst, it’s at least 10 cm rain received in an hour. But we have evidence that even 3 to 5 cm rain in an hour can trigger severe mudslides and landslides because soil is very loose in this region. We suspect that is what has happened in Devprayag,” said M Mohapatra, director general, IMD.According to IMD, if 10 cm rainfall is received at a station in one hour, the rain event is termed as cloud burst. It is very difficult to predict the cloud bursts due to its very small scale in space and time.Such meteorological events have become common in Uttarakhand.Another internal IMD report based on local media reports said a cloud burst type event was reported at Tehri, Uttarkashi, Rudraprayag and Chamoli districts in early hours of May 3. This damaged several roads and bridges. Some shops at Binsar in Chamoli district were buried under debris. On the afternoon of May 5, “cloudburst like impact” and hailstorm were reported from Chaukhutia, Almora. Central Water Commission (CWC) data showed water level at Naula in Ramganga river rose by 78 cm due to heavy rain.“The rain recorded on Tuesday is not very heavy. They are mostly in the range of 25 to 35 mm. During the pre-monsoon season the soil is very loose and there are high chances of landslides even when there is not much rain. We are trying to understand why such heavy damage took place. There are two radars also in Uttarakhand and we are getting data from there too,” said M Rajeevan, secretary, ministry of earth sciences.“There have been several incidents of cloud bursts and heavy rain in April and May which have caused extensive damage on the Char Dham yatra route. Any hill cutting for road construction is not only not advisable but also not possible in the midst of such natural hazards,” said Mallika Bhanot of Ganga Ahvaan, a Uttarakhand based NGO.“This is the sixth heavy rainfall incident in the pre-monsoon season that has caused damage to roads and property in Uttarakhand. If Char Dham road widening work continues through pre-monsoon and monsoon season it will aggravate risks of landslides and other disasters,” said D P Dobhal, a former glaciologist at Dehradun-based Wadia Institute of Himalayan Geology.IMD’s analysis also cites research by IMD scientists based on long-term data of rainfall, landslide and flash floods that rainfall of 3-5 cm per hour in the steep slope mountainous regions of Himalayas can cause flash floods, landslides, debri flows, flash floods with huge damages to properties and human losses irrespective of rainfall amount.More rain is expected over the Western Himalayan region. A western disturbance as a trough (low pressure area) is impacting the region. A cyclonic circulation is lying over Punjab and neighbourhood and an east-west trough is running from this cyclonic circulation to Sub Himalayan West Bengal and Sikkim at lower levels.In September , the Supreme Court directed the width of the Char Dham road be 5.5 metre based on a minority report of a 26-member High Powered Committee (HPC). This width was fixed as per a 2018 notification issued by the Ministry of Road, Transport and Highways (MoRTH). Later, the ministry amended its notification and filed an application in the top court against its September 8, 2020 order. The Ministry of Defence too filed a separate application in December last year supporting MoRTH. It requested the court to allow the road width to be increased to 7 metres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/imdwarns-of-dangers-to-char-dham-project-101620846946173.html
13-05-2021||India||10-day lockdown begins in Telangana, police seal inter-state borders||Hyderabad: The 10-day lockdown imposed by the Telangana government to contain the spread of Covid-19 in the state began on Wednesday with the police authorities strictly enforcing the restrictions after a four-hour relaxation. The Telangana police sealed all the inter-state borders by erecting check posts. Except ambulance services carrying critically-ill patients from neighbouring states to Hyderabad were allowed, as per the directions of the state high court. Director-General of Police M Mahendar Reddy said all the others from the neighbouring states would be allowed only after showing the e-passes given by their governments for emergency travel. Those from Telangana, travelling to other states should also obtain an e-pass issued by the police department, he said. Similarly, those who have to travel to other districts within the state and also for those travelling from one place to another in the limits of Hyderabad, Cyberabad and Rachakonda police commissionerates during the lockdown hours should also apply for e-pass online. “Passengers travelling by flights and trains are also allowed to travel, provided they carry the valid tickets,” he said. With the state government suspending operation of inter-state bus and other transport services, including those by private operators, all the state-run Road Transport Corporation buses were cancelled. Many people who were not aware of the orders, rushed to the bus and railway stations to leave for their native places but had to return disappointed. The DGP said all arrangements had been made across the state to implement the 20-hour lockdown. Instructions had been issued to all commissioners and superintendents of police to ensure strict enforcement of lockdown. “Stringent punishment will be given to those who violate the lockdown rules,” he said. In Hyderabad and all the major towns in Telangana, the police strictly forced all the shops and business establishments to down their shutters before the restrictions came into force. At the historic Charminar, which witnessed mad crowds for shopping for Eid-ul-Fitr (Ramzan) till Tuesday night, roads wore a deserted look within minutes of the lockdown coming into force from 10 am. Since it was the first day of the lockdown, the police allowed the people to rush back to their homes after buying essentials for 15-20 minutes after the lockdown came into force. The police personnel conducted a flag march to enforce the restrictions. Hyderabad Police Commissioner Anjani Kumar, who supervised the lockdown at Charminar, told reporters that 180 check posts were set up in the city to check the movement of vehicles. Cyberabad Police Commissioner V C Sajjanar and Rachakonda Police Commissioner Mahesh Bahgwath also personally monitored the situation in their respective police commissionerates. Earlier in the day, there were traffic jams in several areas, as people came on the roads in large numbers to purchase essential commodities. There were long queues at supermarkets, vegetable markets, medical shops and even at the wine shops as early as 6.30 am. While restaurants remained closed, some roadside eateries and mobile canteens make a brisk business.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/10day-lockdown-begins-in-telangana-police-seal-inter-state-borders-101620846885587.html
13-05-2021||India||Amid surge, a village in Kerala fiercely guards against the pandemic||Thiruvananthapuram: At a time when the pandemic is fast spreading within the rural areas of the country; there is a small tribal hamlet in Idukki that is fiercely resisting the virus. Not a single Covid-19 case has been reported from Edamalakudi in Idukki district in last one and a half years. According to villagers, enough hard work, surveillance and collective activities are behind this feat. The Covid guidelines, such as physical distancing, hand hygine, proper masking and travel restrictions are in place just as any other part of the country, except that people of this tribal village with a population of 2,250 enforce them strictly and fines are heavy for those who flout the rules. Situated around 40 kms away from Munnar, villagers keep a 24x7 vigil and visitors if any, even if they are government servants, have to carry an RT-PCR test report taken 48 hours ago. The majority of the populace in this village are from the Muduva tribe. Inspired by Edamalakudi’s feat; many tribal hamlets are planning to replicate its self-lockdown mode to contain the surge. This is happening at a time when in more than 80 local bodies in the state, the test positivity rate (TPR) is above 50% in three panchayats in Thirssur and Ernakulam it is above 75 %. “It is a model worth emulating for others. In the hamlet ‘Nattukoottam’ (a collective of elders and others) is powerful. Every week two persons from the village go out to fetch essentials and they will have to be quarantined for two weeks,” said Devikulam sub-collector S Premkrishanan. Perched on a hilly terrain there is no direct road connectivity to the village and it is more or less self-sufficient and majority of the people work in forest and tribal departments in nearby areas. “Many such tribal hamlets are imposing self-lockdown to get away from the surge. Situated in remote areas, people here realise the gravity if the virus spread to their areas. It is good they are coming out with their own mechanism to contain it,” said M J Babu, a senior journalist hailing from Munnar. True, many villages in Idukki and Wayanad districts have barred outsiders and imposed self-lockdown days before the government enforced it on May 8. Meanwhile, there is no let up in pandemic woes as the state on Wednesday reported 43,529 cases with a test positivity rate of 29.75 %, highest since the outbreak began. It also reported 95 deaths taking total fatalities to 6,053, while the active caseload is 4,32,789. What is really disturbing is that many youngsters are also falling prey to the virus these days. Among the 95 casualties, 20 are below 45 years emphasising the urgent need to vaccinate the 18-44 age group. “We have started vaccinating the 18-44 age group also. Due to shortage, priority will be given to people who interact with public more like delivery boys, drivers, daily-wage earners and others. We have given order for 10 million doses but got only 5,00,000,” said chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-surge-a-village-in-kerala-fiercely-guards-against-the-pandemic-101620846825542.html
13-05-2021||India||Grief shrouds family of woman killed in Israel||Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Wednesday said the body of Soumya Santosh (32) who was killed in a rocket attack in Israel on Tuesday will be brought to the country soon. He said the state government was in touch with the external affairs ministry and Israeli embassy in Delhi.32-year-old Soumya was killed in a rocket attack by Palestinian militants from Gaza, according to officials. Soumya, who belonged to Kerala’s Idukki district, worked as a caregiver attending to an old woman at a house in the southern Israeli coastal city of Ashkelon. Ashkelon, which borders the Gaza Strip, has come under a massive fire from the Palestinian militants.“We are in touch with the Indian Embassy in Israel to ensure that the mortal remains of Soumya Santhosh who was killed in Israel is brought back to Kerala and handed over to her family as soon as possible. Heartfelt condolences to the family and friends of Soumya,” Vijayan tweeted.Minister of state for external affairs V Muraleedharan also said her body will be brought to the country at the earliest. “Spoke with the family of Ms Soumya Santhosh to convey my deep condolences at her tragic demise during the rocket attacks from Gaza today. Assured all possible assistance.” “We have condemned these attacks and the violence in Jerusalem, and urged restraint by both sides,” Muraleedharan said in a tweet.Soumya’s husband K Santosh, a native of Keerithode in Idukki district, said a rocket sent by Hamas fell on the apartment in Ashkelon in Israel as she was making a video call to him. “She was complaining about the worsening situation and I heard a huge explosion and lightning later. When I called her after ten minutes there was no answer,” he explained. He said he immediately alerted some of her friends in Israel who later confirmed her death. The elderly woman for whom she worked also killed in the attack.Israeli ambassador to India Ron Malka has also called up the family in the morning to convey his government’s condolences. Later he tweeted the photograph of Soumya with her husband and their 9-year-old son.“My heart goes to her nine-year-old son Adon, who lost his mother at such a young age and will have to grow up without her. The evil attack reminds me of little Moshe who lost his parents during the 2008 Mumbai attacks,” he tweeted. He was referring to the case of Moshe Holtezberg, the two- and-a-half year old boy, whose parents were killed during Mumbai terror attacks. The boy’s caretaker had saved him miraculously and she later migrated to Israel with Moshe.Soumya’s relatives said she was working in Israel for last seven years as ‘care giver’ and she was planning to return next year. Soumya last visited her native place in 2017.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/grief-shrouds-family-of-woman-killed-in-israel-101620846766606.html
13-05-2021||India||BBMP’s free food scheme for poor draws flak for collecting Aadhaar details, phone numbers||Bengaluru: The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike’s (BBMP) distribution of free food for the poor during lockdown through Indira canteens has come under criticism from locals and activists alike after employees of the canteens were seen collecting Aadhaar card details and mobile numbers of those getting the food. In some canteens in Bengaluru, employees said they were even asked to take photographs of those receiving the food, which otherwise costs ₹10 per plate. The Indira Canteen is a subsidised food programme run by the Karnataka government, in line with the Amma Unavagam of Tamil Nadu. On Tuesday, Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa said that free meals would be provided for the poor in Bengaluru during the lockdown period to ease their hardships. “To ease hardships that come with the strict restrictions, three free meals will be made available to the poor, migrants and workers in need, at Indira Canteens in Bengaluru and across the state till May 24,” Yediyurappa said in a post on Twitter. At some centres in the city, local residents and activists pulled up authorities after some people were not able to get the food as they did not have identity card or mobile number. At some centres, strangers provided their mobile numbers to staff on behalf of people standing in queue for the food. Some of these issues from Indira canteens across Bengaluru have surfaced even as the Karnataka government told the high court that providing identity card was not mandatory for the distribution of food. The minutes of a meeting held on providing free food through Indira canteens, which was submitted in the high court, read: “The CSPs (catering service partners) will maintain a register to record beneficiary name, no of food packets given, contact no, identification document given by any government organisation like Aadhaar, voter id, driver’s licence, labour department identification card etc. Identity card is not compulsory for giving food, but in the interest of accountability, the CSPs are well-advised to collect as many ID card details as possible.” However, a managing director of three such catering service partners said they have received no instructions from the BBMP. “We were asked to collect ID card details and phone numbers of all those who were getting the food from us. We were asked to submit a report to the BBMP with these details after the distribution,” he said on the condition of anonymity. When asked if such a system would lead to denial of food to the poor, he said these were the orders given to them. At the Indira Canteen in KP Agrahara, employees said though several people approached them without identity card or mobile numbers, they did not send them back. “We gave them food. I don’t think it would have been right to send someone who came for food empty handed,” said one of two workers at the centre. These two employees were also responsible for packing 500 food packets at the centre and distributing them. Apart from identity cards, some of the centres were also seen taking photographs of those who were getting food packets. Rajesh, a local activist in KP Agrahara, said an old woman who came to the centre for breakfast was uncomfortable with her photo being taken. “She said that she was ready to pay money if need be, but she didn’t want her photo taken. She was really uncomfortable. She said she came for the food because she had lost her job at an agarbatti factory. If not, she would have paid for her own food. She felt humiliated with the photo being taken,” said Rajesh. He added, “Whatever the reasons, is this how a government should treat the people who are in need? For a ₹5 meal, they are asking for Aadhaar card, mobile number and photographs from people who can’t afford three meals a day.” Thulasi Maddineni, special commissioner (Finance), who is in-charge of the drive, told Hindustan Times that a meeting was held with all contractors on Wednesday evening and instructions were given to ensure no one is denied food at Indira canteens. “We are very clear that no needy person should go without food. That is the clear instruction we have given. At the same time, we are dealing with contractors, so we needed some documents to check how many packets have been distributed,” said Maddineni. Meanwhile,hours after the decision caused an outrage on social media, BBMP commissioner Gaurav Gupta on Wednesday evening announced that no identity proof or mobile number of the beneficiary was required for the distribution of food at Indira Canteens. “No identification proof or mobile number of the beneficiary is required for distribution of food packets to poor people, migrants and workers at Indira Canteen. Officials have been instructed the same during my visit to Indira Kitchen this morning. BBMP is committed to help everyone in need,” he tweeted.The special commissioner said that after the BBMP commissioner’s visit to Indira canteens, rules have relaxed. “We had introduced a system of taking photographs, but since there were objections to it, we have discontinued it. We will continue to collect details such as mobile numbers so that we can always call them to verify the contractor’s claims on food distribution,” she said. The officer, however, reiterated that the BBMP was not denying food to anyone because they don’t have a mobile number or identification card. “We clear on that. It is not compulsory for the citizen to provide documentation or mobile numbers. But if they give the numbers, we will have a record to ensure accountability in the process, in case any problem arises in the future. Once again, there is clear instruction given to the contractors that no one should be sent back because they don’t have documents,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bbmps-free-food-scheme-for-poor-draws-flak-for-collecting-aadhaar-details-phone-numbers-101620846705505.html
13-05-2021||India||K’taka suspends vaccination for 18+ from Friday||Bengaluru: The Karnataka government on Wednesday suspended vaccination for people in the 18-44 years age group from Friday, after a shortage of vaccines forced it to prioritise second shots.The state has decided to use “vaccines procured directly by the state for vaccination of persons between 18 to 44 years will be utilized for vaccination of beneficiaries who are due for second dose” and to also, as decided on May 7, “utilize the complete supply of vaccines provided by the government of India for vaccination of persons above 45+ years, for vaccinating beneficiaries who were due for second dose,” the Karnataka health department said in a statement.Most private hospitals in Bengaluru have run out of stocks, except Manipal and Apollo, after the state government stopped vaccine supplies from May 1 and instead asked them to procure doses on their own.On Wednesday, Karnataka recorded 39,998 news cases of Covid-19, with 517 deaths, taking the total number of active cases in the state to 592,182. Bengaluru recorded 16,286 cases.Gaurav Gupta, the chief commissioner of the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) on Wednesday said that there were just 40,000 doses of vaccine left in Bengaluru.The crowds in vaccination centres have swelled with more and more people returning home without getting inoculated due to the shortage.The suspension in government centres will include those who have already booked appointments, the health department clarified.Karnataka, with a total population of around 60.5 million, of which around 30.26 million are between the age of 18-44, has so far administered 10.8 million doses of vaccines to at least 8.5 million people (2.2 million have received both doses and 8.5 million, one). The state has so far placed orders for 10 million Covishield vaccines from Serum Institute of India. In addition to this, it has also announced plans to float a global tender within the next week for another 20 million doses which include 10 million doses of Covaxin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ktaka-suspends-vaccination-for-18-from-friday-101620846645509.html
13-05-2021||India||HC asks K’taka govt to submit action plan to counter Covid third wave||Bengaluru: The Karnataka high court on Wednesday directed the state government to prepare an action plan for countering the potential third wave of Covid-19. A division bench of Chief Justice Abhay Oka and Justice Aravind Kumar gave directions during a hearing on the state’s Covid-19 preparedness. “It is high time that the state government starts preparation for dealing with the third wave. By projecting estimates of the requirement of beds, drugs, oxygen, medical personnel etc. We direct the state to prepare an action plan and vision statement dealing with the state of preparedness for dealing with the third possible wave of Covid-19,” the bench said. The court gave the state government two weeks’ time to come out with the action plan. Prior to this, the court had asked the government about bed and medicine requirements in the state. In its reply, the state government said that a total of 45,754 oxygen beds, 5,305 ICU beds are available along with 4,109 ventilator beds. The court then pointed out that as per the Central government’s requirements, the state should have 66,333 oxygen beds, 13,969 ICU beds and 8,332 ventilator beds. “Thus, it can be said that there is a huge shortage of beds at the state level… the situation in Bengaluru regarding availability of beds continues to be critical especially when over 15,000 cases are reported every day in the city,” observed the court. The bench then went on to ask the government to appoint a senior IPS officer to monitor the investigation into bribe for bed scam alleged by BJP MP Tejasvi Surya. “Looking into the sensitive nature of allegations, it is necessary that investigation is regularly monitored by an experienced senior IPS officer.” The court asked the state government to consider deploying officers specializing in cybercrime who can be part of the investigation team as well. The bench also asked the BBMP commissioner to take over the facility of beds and staff offered by the Air Force within 24 hours and make sure the facility is made operational immediately. It also asked the state government to offer an explanation in writing as to why beds that were offered by Railways were not taken over. The bench also pointed out that the state must audit the use of said Remdesivir drug as well as oxygen in the state. If some hospitals are unnecessarily using it, state will have to step in, the bench added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hc-asks-k-taka-govt-to-submit-action-plan-to-counter-covid-third-wave-101620846585515.html
13-05-2021||India||Modi reviews vaccine, O2 supply in key meet||New Delhi Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday held a high-level meeting to review the availability and supply of oxygen and medicines, while noting that production of all drugs, including remdesivir, has been ramped up significantly in the last few weeks as the country battles the countrywide surge in Covid-19 cases, the PM’s office said in a statement.“Reviewed different aspects relating to the COVID-19 situation. This includes different sources of oxygen availability and the supply of medicines across the nation,” the PM said in a tweet late on Wednesday.According to the statement released by the PMO, “The PM was also apprised that the production of all drugs including remdesivir have been ramped up significantly in the last few weeks. PM said that India has a very vibrant Pharma sector and Government’s continued close coordination with them will ensure proper availability of all medicines.’’During the meeting, the PM also approved the procurement of the 150,000 units of Oxycare System developed by Defence Research & Development Organisation (DRDO) at a cost of ₹322.5 crore from the PM Cares Fund. The system is aimed at optimising consumption of oxygen based on the SpO2 reading of the patient and thus, effectively increasing the utility of the oxygen cylinders.PMO said as many as 100,000 manual and 50,000 automatic oxygen systems will be procured along with non-rebreather (NRB) masks. Non-rebreather masks are the face masks connected to a reservoir bag which allow a patient to inhale only pure oxygen. A patient using an NRB is unable to inhale anything he or she exhales. A non-rebreather mask typically delivers 70 to 100% oxygen and increases the consumption from a single cylinder by 30 to 40%.DRDO welcomed the approval and highlighted how it will lessen the workload of hospital staff by a large extent as it will eliminate the need of routine measurements and manual adjustments of oxygen flow. “The threshold SpO2 value for initiating flow from the system can be adjusted once and a display will then continuously keep monitoring the SpO2 levels of the patient,” the DRDO said.Availability of oxygen and medicines across the country and a management of the surge in cases of Mucormycosis, or black fungus, a rare infection that impacts the brain or sinuses, were also discussed during the meeting.The central government is actively monitoring the supply of drugs being used in the management of Covid-19 as well mucormycosis, a rare fungal infection being reported at some places, the statement released by the PMO noted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-reviews-vaccine-o2-supply-in-key-meet-101620846526738.html
13-05-2021||India||Decline in testing adds to state’s Covid-19 woes||Bengaluru Covid-19 testing in Karnataka has seen a steady decline since the beginning of May that is likely to prolong the duration of the second wave of infections that continue to wreak havoc in the southern state.As per data the daily bulletin of the state health department , Karnataka conducted 164,703 RT-PCR tests on May 1, which has come down to 104,659, registering a de-growth of 36% in just under two weeks. During the same period, the number of active cases in Karnataka jumped from 405,068 to 587,452, data shows.The decline in testing comes at a time when authorities, including experts, have recommended a higher number of Covid-19 tests to be conducted for early detection of cases to ensure treatment can be provided at the right time and avoid hospitalisation, and worse, death.“We are advised to do targeted testing of those who have symptoms, primary and secondary contacts of the patients,” Dr Omprakash Patil, director at Karanataka’s health and family welfare services told Hindustan Times.With a daily caseload of around 40,000 for over two weeks, the state has become one of the most impacted regions in the country.According to data, testing in Bengaluru has also seen a steady decline, adding to the mounting troubles of the BS Yediyurappa-led administration that has imposed a lockdown to contain the surge and increase preparedness months after the government-appointed technical advisory committee (TAC) warned about the risks of the imminent second wave.“There is no shortage of testing kits, RTPCR labs are also adequate. We have given importance to test primary contacts, immediate family and vulnerable sections like in slums and doing targeted testing,” Gaurav Gupta, the chief commissioner of the BBMP said on Wednesday.According to data from the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP), there were 62,004 tests conducted (both RT-PCR and RAT) in the city on May 1 which has since come down to 48,469.Data from the BBMP’s analysis show that the number of tests dropped from 694,664 between April 16-22 to 251,487 between May 7 to 11.The decline in testing goes against the five “T” strategy of the government which has so far gained and lost precious ground in the battle against the novel coronavirus.With contact tracing also taking a backseat in recent months, the surge continues in Karnataka and its capital city, Bengaluru, which has the highest number of active cases in the country.The surge has led to a collapse of the already inadequate and overstretched healthcare infrastructure, leading to shortage of beds, oxygen, life-saving medicines and even space in crematoriums in Bengaluru.The vaccination drive, one of the strongest measures Karnataka has to contain and defeat the surge, has also fallen short in recent times as lack of supplies has led to lower coverage.Karnataka on Wednesday reported 39,998 cases and 517 deaths with Bengaluru alone recording 16,286 cases and 275 fatalities, according to the health bulletin. According to the data, the positivity rate in the state is hovering around 30% for the last one week, while the rate in Bengaluru is at 38.89%.As far as the vaccination drive is concerned, Karnataka has so far administered 10,787,970 vaccines. But only 2,238,748 or less than 3.5% of the state’s 60.5 million people have so far received both the doses.Several hospitals and centres have now put up “no vaccination” boards just when the state opened up inoculations for persons between 18-44 years of age.“We don’t have a shortage as such. As and when the vaccine arrives, we will vaccinate all. We want to give it to everybody,” K Sudhakar, Karnataka’s minister for health, family welfare and medical education said on Wednesday.Karnataka has so far placed orders for 10 million doses of Covishield vaccines. In addition to this, the state government has also said that they would float global tenders to procure an additional 20 million doses of vaccine. However, delays in deliveries have stalled Karnataka’s vaccination drive.The surge, which appears to have slowed down marginally in Bengaluru, has now moved to rural areas and other districts of the state where there has been a spike in infections and fatalities, according to data.All the infrastructure in Bengaluru has crumbled under the pressure of the surge that has raised apprehensions if it would be worse in rural areas where healthcare is barely a fraction of what it is in the capital city.“With all its healthcare infrastructure and facilities we faced shortages in ICU and ventilator beds. In the same way, when it increases in rural districts, we have to treat and take care of the people with the facilities there,” Sudhakar said. He added that the government is already making preparations including naming medical personnel, increasing oxygenated bed strength, setting up step down hospitals and Covid care centres in rural areas to treat the infected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/decline-in-testing-adds-to-state-s-covid-19-woes-101620846525558.html
13-05-2021||India||Bengal govt, SC rights panel at odds over its visit to state||The West Bengal government has asked the National Commission for Scheduled Castes (NCSC) to cancel its visit to the state to inquire into the cases of atrocities against Dalits in the aftermath of post-poll violence, citing the pandemic restrictions and protocol. The commission has, however, decided to go ahead with the visit.While the West Bengal government on Monday told the Kolkata high court that not a single incident of post-poll violence has been reported in the state after May 8, the NCSC claims it has been receiving letters and complaints of atrocities against Dalits in the state, ever since the assembly elections were announced on May 2.The Commission is a constitutional body established to provide safeguards against the exploitation of Scheduled Castes. It joins a growing number of Central government bodies that have been quick to send fact finding teams to the state or shoot off letters to the local government following post poll violence that has rocked the state. The violence came after the TMC retained power, with an absolute majority in an election that the Bharatiya Janata Party expected to win.According to a member of the commission who asked not to be named, the NCSC conveyed to the West Bengal government its plan to visit the state on May 13 and 14 and also sought a meeting with the chief secretary and the director general of police.In a letter to the NCSC, dated May 11, the chief secretary of the state asked it to forward the complaints it has received in connection with the violence to the DG police. “The letter from the WB government has informed the NCSC that a 5-Member bench of the High Court Kolkata has heard the matter on May 10. The solicitor general has made a submission before the bench, that a number of complaints have been received by, inter alia, the national commission for schedule castes. And that the High Court has observed that in case any such complaints have been received by the commission with reference to violence during the polls or post poll, the same may be forwarded to the director general of police, West Bengal so as to enable him to transfer the same to the concerned police station for appropriate action,” added the person .When the Commission wrote back saying that it was part of its mandate to conduct spot visits, the state shot off a second letter, also dated May 11, pointing out the NSCN should reconsider the decision of proceeding to visit during the current pandemic situation.The person cited above said “even the hotel that was booked for the team has called to say that it cannot accommodate the visitors; the Commission will take it up with the state government.”The person did not respond on the exact number of cases of atrocities and violence against SCs in the post poll violence .After the Bharatiya Janata Party alleged that its workers are being attacked in the state allegedly by the TMC cadre, there have been a series of inquiries initiated. West Bengal Governor, Jagdeep Dhankar will visit families of those affected by post-poll violence in the state. In a tweet, he said that he will be visiting “post poll unprecedented violence affected areas”.The Home ministry has also already sanctioned security to all 77 BJP MLAs following an assessment of threat to them. While 16 of these MLAs had various levels of central security even before the Assembly polls, 61 were accorded X-category security of CISF on Monday.With the BJP claiming that some of its women cadre being attacked, a team of National Commission for Women headed by chairperson, Rekha Sharma visited the state last week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-govt-sc-rights-panel-at-odds-over-its-visit-to-state-101620846466086.html
13-05-2021||India||Tripura to provide free Covid-19 vaccines to beneficiaries above 18 years of age||The Tripura government will provide free Covid-19 vaccines to beneficiaries in the 18-45 age group and has also decided to allocate ₹134 crores from the state budget to procure vaccines. “The decision of providing vaccines to the 18-45 age group free of cost was taken during a meeting held in April,” said OSD to chief minister Sanjay Mishra. However, the schedule of providing the vaccines is yet to be fixed as the vaccine suppliers have not given any stipulated date.Though the third phase of vaccination was due to start from May 1, it was delayed as states with larger number of Covid-19 cases would be provided the vaccines first. Chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb earlier said that the health workers and elders would be given priority for Covid-19 vaccination. “Everybody will be vaccinated phase wise,” Deb said. Earlier, more than 20 states including Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand, Haryana, West Bengal and Assam declared that they would make the vaccination drive free of cost.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-to-provide-free-covid-19-vaccines-to-beneficiaries-above-18-years-of-age-101620846226525.html
13-05-2021||India||Kerala reports record 43k cases, 95 deaths||Kerala on Wednesday reported a record 43,529 cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) with a test positivity rate of 29.75 %, the highest since the outbreak began, and 95 deaths taking total fatalities in the state to 6,053 and the number of active cases to 4,32,789.Its case fatality rate is 0.4 % against the national average of 1.5% but experts said it may be difficult for the state to continue to keep deaths low with the high caseload threatening to overrun its efficient health system.Data released by the state health ministry shows that 20 of the 95 who died Wednesday were aged below 45 years, a fact that experts said pointed to the need to vaccinate everyone. The youngest among dead was a 22-year-old from Thrissur.“Since majority of the aged group has been covered in vaccination drive it is natural virus will target youngsters. We have to inoculate them fast. At the current rate , it will take many months to cover the population of the state. We have to procure them fast,” said Dr N M Arun.Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said vaccination of those in the 18-45 age group was delayed on account of a paucity of doses. “We are trying our best to vaccinate this group also. Due to the shortage, priority will be given to people who interact with public like delivery boys, drivers, daily-wage earners and others. We have given order for one crore (10 million) doses but got only 500000,” he said.He added that the state has enough medical oxygen and ICU beds .Much like other states, Kerala too does not seem to be reporting all its Covid dead. “Last week , we cremated 125 bodies but only 40 figured in the official list,” said the caretaker of a leading crematorium who asked not to be named. With deaths increasing, Thiruvananthapuram district collector Navjot Khosa has ordered all crematoriums to stay open 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-reports-record-43k-cases-95-deaths-101620846225420.html
13-05-2021||India||‘Duty cast on the State’: HC pulls up Goa on O2 shortage||The right to life is a fundamental right guaranteed by Article 21 of the Constitution, which places a duty on the State to ensure that life is not extinguished on account of its inability to supply oxygen, which cannot be avoided by pleading helplessness, the Bombay high court in Goa on Wednesday warned the Goa government.Twenty-six people died between 2am and 6am at the state government’s premier health care facility, Goa Medical College (GMC), due to poor oxygen supply. The state’s health minister, Vishwajit Rane, on Tuesday called for an inquiry into the deaths, linked them directly to oxygen shortage, and alleged that several patients were of dying on other days for the same reason.Hearing a bunch of public interest litigation petitions filed by citizens, the high court said on Wednesday: “There is a duty cast on the State to ensure that this life is not extinguished on account of inability on the part of the State to supply oxygen to these unfortunate victims of the pandemic. This duty can neither be avoided by pleading helplessness nor by putting forth logistical difficulties in sourcing and supplying oxygen.”The bench of justices MS Sonak and Nitin Jambre added: “At least tonight, and even hereafter, with the joint efforts of the Dean (of Goa Medical College) and the state administration of which he is a part, there are no casualties at the Goa Medical College for want of oxygen.”The GMC dean, who was summoned for the hearing, told the court that the hospital was facing a shortage of 6.5 metric tonne (MT) of oxygen per day, and that supply was not being augmented.“We have faced many interruptions in the supply of central oxygen on a daily basis, leading to near critical fall in the oxygen saturations of patients en masse in the intensive care units. The supply of cylinder oxygen, that is used for mild/moderate patients has also been deficient, and erratic, leading to the needy patients not getting it continuously,” Dr Shivanand Bandekar, the dean, told the court.“For want of sufficient oxygen supply, [we] are unable to use the HFNO (high flow nasal oxygen) machines even though several such machines are available and will provide substantial relief to the victims,” he added.GMC, which that is handling more patients than its bed capacity, delivers oxygen in two ways -- the 700 beds in the hospital are supplied through a central pipeline, and the 250 additional beds that have been set up during the pandemic are given the medical essential through loose cylinders that need to be replaced and refilled. However, hospital officials admitted that they are struggling to refill cylinders on time due to lack of manpower.“At times, there has been a problem with the supply of trolleys and loose cylinders, as a result of which there have been instances of a drop in supply of oxygen to the patients, which has resulted in casualties,” Dr Bandekar told the court.Chief Minister Pramod Sawant said that only the doctors would know how many of the patients died because of low supply of oxygen and how many died because their conditions were extremely critical.The high court ordered the Goa government to drop everything and ensure uninterrupted oxygen supply to hospitals.On Tuesday, Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant said that there was no shortage of oxygen, but that it was a logistic problem that stemmed from mismanagement of supplies by the hospital.“There needs to be a person in charge (for f oxygen cylinders) in each ward. This cannot be left to nurses. Oxygen is there, but it doesn’t reach the wards/patients. We will streamline the process of ensuring that the supply is adequate. We will allocate the work properly,” Sawant said on Tuesday.“As of now, the state administration will have to focus maximum on improving the position of oxygen supply in the state, and in particular at GMC. As of now, no one can afford to remain in a state of denial about this crucial issue which is taking away the precious lives of our people,” the high court said.Health secretary Ravi Dhawan assured that in response to the High Court’s directions all efforts were being made find out the solution to this issue of supply of oxygen.“First the government said that they have oxygen but no cylinders for refill. When we arranged some 100 cylinders, they claimed it was a logistics issue and so the tempos were arranged... But the bottom line is Goa needs 40 metric tons of oxygen instead of 26 it is currently allocated by the Centre. People will keep dying every night till this happens,” Shruti Chaturvedi a volunteer helping with Covid relief in Goa and who is also one of the petitioners before the High Court said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/duty-cast-on-the-state-hc-pulls-up-goa-on-o2-shortage-101620846166040.html
13-05-2021||India||In letter to PM, Oppn leaders seek free mass inoculation, O2 relief||Top leaders from 12 Opposition parties -- including Sonia Gandhi of the Congress, West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee of the Trinamool Congress, and Tamil Nadu chief minister MK Stalin of the DMK -- have sent a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi putting across eight demands, including the central procurement of all vaccines and a universal free inoculation drive.The leaders also asked that the Central Vista revamp project be stopped, and its funds be diverted to procure oxygen and other essential materials.In the letter, the leaders argued that they have “repeatedly in the past” drawn the PM’s attention to the measures, which are “absolutely imperative” for the Central government to undertake and implement.“Unfortunately, your government has either ignored or refused all these suggestions. This only compounded the situation to reach such an apocalyptic human tragedy,” the letter said.The letter was also signed by former Prime Minister HD Deve Gowda of the Janata Dal (Secular), Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray, Jharkhand CM Hemant Soren, Nationalist Congress Party chief Sharad Pawar, Akhilesh Yadav of the Samajwadi Party, Tejashwi Yadav of the Rashtriya Janata Dal, CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury, and D Raja of the CPI.The letter asked the PM to “procure vaccines centrally from all available sources - global and domestic” and “immediately begin a free, universal mass vaccination campaign across the country”. It urged the PM to “invoke compulsory licensing to expand domestic vaccine production. Spend budgetary allocation of Rs. 35,000 crores for the vaccines.”According to submissions by the Union government to the top court, India has a capacity of 85 million doses from two manufacturers for the month of May. This number is inadequate for the peak vaccination rate of four million a day recorded in the country in the first half of April. Since the drive began on January 16, India has on average administered about 1.5 million doses a day.At least 10 states have said they will float tenders to procure doses from vaccine makers based outside of the country, although most vaccine makers have already committed much of their 2021 supplies to other nations already.The letter said that the unemployed should be given at least ₹6,000 per month each, and there must be free distribution of foodgrains to the needy as over 10 million tonne of foodgrain is currently lying in central godowns.It also invoked the three controversial farm laws, which were passed last year and have sparked protests by farmer groups since then, and asked that these be repealed to “protect lakhs of our annadatas (providers) becoming victims of the pandemic so that they can continue to produce food to feed the Indian people”.To be sure, most of these demands have been repeatedly raised by the Opposition parties in the last few months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-letter-to-pm-oppn-leaders-seek-free-mass-inoculation-o2-relief-101620846165423.html
13-05-2021||India||SC hearing in Covid case on hold as Justice Chandrachud tests positive||Justice Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, who heads the Supreme Court bench scanning the Centre’s policy and preparedness in management of the second Covid-19 wave, has tested positive for coronavirus, said the court administration on Wednesday.The bench, which also includes justices L Nageswara Rao and S Ravindra Bhat, was supposed to take up the suo motu (on its own motion) matter on Thursday. However, the case will now get deferred to some other date because justice Chandrachud is indisposed.A circular issued by the top court administration on Wednesday evening confirmed that the suo motu bench will not sit on Thursday and a fresh date for listing of the cases shall be notified later.Under the circumstances, Chief Justice of India NV Ramana, who is the master of roster, has the option of either constituting another three-judge bench with some other senior judge to hear the suo motu matter next week, or let the two other judges of the existing bench resume the hearing.The last hearing in this case on Monday encountered technically glitches, compelling the bench to defer it on Thursday. The judges also observed that adjournment will enable them go through the central government’s detailed affidavit on vaccination policies and some other pertinent issues.In its affidavit, the Centre justified the vaccination policy that allowed differential pricing of vaccines between them and the states, while also urging the bench to refrain from interfering with the policy matters.Meanwhile, on Friday, a bench of justices Ashok Bhushan and MR Shah will take up another suo motu case registered last year to consider plight of the migrant workers during the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-hearing-in-covid-case-on-hold-as-justice-chandrachud-tests-positive-101620845985601.html
13-05-2021||India||States plan global tenders but uncertain about doses||States have freedom to float global tenders for acquiring Covid-19 vaccines from any drug manufacturer, but they cannot inoculate their citizens with such vaccines that have not been approved by the Union government, which could emerge as a major technical issue, four people with knowledge of the matter said on Wednesday.As states are spending their own money, they do not require the Centre’s permission for inviting a global tender, but jabs cannot be administered without the approval of the central government, one drug manufacturer and three officials – representing the Centre and two states – said, asking not to be named.While the Union government has indicated that the vaccines of such manufacturers who have global approvals will not face any regulatory roadblock in India, there are some conditions that need to be fulfilled. This has emerged as a major technical issue during preliminary buyer-seller discussions, the people quoted above said.On Wednesday, Tamil Nadu became 11th state in India to say it will opt for global tenders to get vaccines, even as officials in states said it wasn’t clear by when they could receive doses.Officials indicated that most states were not confident of getting the vaccines soon because most international vaccine manufacturers have already made supply commitments to governments in other countries.One of the officials working in an eastern state said: “We have decided to float a global tender, but there are limited suppliers and they too are apprehensive of regulatory issue. India is not their first option, hence any large-scale procurement is full of challenges. Ideally, there should be a centralised procurement...”On Wednesday, West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi to allow “liberal, pro-active and discerning” import of vaccines, saying 100 million in the state need to be vaccinated and the supply of doses was “extremely inadequate”.An official representing an National Democratic Alliance -ruled state said: “Centre is anyway interfering with procurement process of vaccines from domestic suppliers. It directs [the domestic manufacturers] quantities of vaccines to be distributed to states. It would have been better if a centralised agency would have procured vaccines for entire country ...”After the Centre on April 19 decided to launch the “liberalised and accelerated” third phase of the national immunisation programme to cover the 18-44 age group from May 1, several states such as Uttar Pradesh, Odisha, Delhi, Karnataka, Telangana, Bihar and Maharashtra have initiated the procurement process of vaccines.The April 19 decision allowed vaccine manufacturers in India to supply 50% of monthly output to states and private hospitals after keeping 50% of doses for the Centre.“Bihar government is in the process of procuring vaccines, but the task is not that easy. There are few vaccine manufacturers globally and for most, India is not priority. As of now, approved vaccines (in India) are only three – Covishield, Covaxin and Sputnik V – and they are not in a position to meet demand. Contracting any other vaccine manufacturer is risky as usage of such vaccines would be subject to the Centre’s approval,” another official said.HT reported on April 30 that the Bihar cabinet decided to allocate of ₹4,000 crore for the procurement of vaccines to be given free of cost to all aged between 18 and 45 years in 2021-22.Uttar Pradesh has floated a global tender for 40 million jabs on May 5, and the procurement process is on a fast track, additional chief secretary Navneet Sehgal said.“Besides the three vaccine manufacturers [Covishield, Covaxin and Sputnik V], other global companies could be interested. The government would like to conclude the deal at the earliest,” he said.“It is difficult to say at this point in time as to how much time it would take for any first consignment to arrive. The state is going to have a pre-bid qualification meeting with any prospective suppliers tonight [Wednesday]. After that, the bids are scheduled for May 21. The companies [interested to bid] would mention the delivery schedule then,” UP health minister Jai Pratap Singh said.Earlier this week, the Odisha cabinet approved the global tender route to procure vaccines. “A technical committee is being set up to work out the details,” a state government official said.Punjab health minister Balbir Sidhu blamed the inadequate supply from the Centre as the reason behind slow vaccination in the state. “In the start of the drive, we faced a lot of hesitancy for the vaccine. However, now when set-up our centres across the state and motivated the people by running massive awareness drive, low stocks has discouraged us,” said Sidhu.Union health minister Harsh Vardhan said on Wednesday: “It is very important that we first focus more on second dose vaccinations. States should not lose sight of those who are to get the second dose of Covid vaccine. 70% at minimum ought to be allocated to meet the requirement of the second dose, while 30% ought to be reserved for the first dose.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/states-plan-global-tenders-but-uncertain-about-doses-101620845925459.html
13-05-2021||India||Kerala logs another high with 43,529 new Covid-19 cases, TPR nearly 30%||Amid the massive surge of Covid-19 cases, one of the achievements of Kerala in its fight against the pandemic, its low mortality rate, is under threat with the death rate going up steadily. On Wednesday, the state reported 43,529 new cases with a test positivity rate of 29.75%, the highest since the outbreak began. It also reported 95 deaths taking the total number of fatalities to 6,053 while the active caseload also rose to 4,32,789. Its mortality rate is 0.4 per cent against the national average of 1.5 per cent but experts said it is difficult for the state to maintain its low mortality rate now. What is disturbing is that many youngsters are falling prey to the virus, statistics released by the state health ministry shows. Among 95 casualties, 20 are below 45 years emphasising the urgent need to vaccinate the 18-45 age group, they said. The youngest among the dead was a 22-year-old youth from Thrissur. Doctors at major hospitals admitted that in the second wave many youngsters, that too without co-morbidities, are falling prey to the virus. They have urged the government to speed up vaccination and include more youngsters in the list. “Since a majority of the age group has not been covered in the vaccination drive it is natural that the virus will target youngsters. We have to inoculate them fast. At this rate, it will take many months to cover the population of the state. We have to procure vaccines fast,” said medical expert Dr N M Arun. He said it is time for the state government to buy more vaccines in the international market rather than waiting for the Union government. “The proportion of the mutated virus has increased all over the country during the second wave. Also superspreader events like major political rallies took place in the state during the polls. This might have exposed younger people,” said Dr Anup R Warrier, infectious diseases expert. But CM Pinarayi Vijayan said vaccination of the 18-45 age group was delayed due to paucity of doses. “We are trying our best to vaccinate this group also. Due to shortage, priority will be given to people who interact with public like delivery boys, drivers, daily-wage earners and others. We have given an order for one crore doses but got only 5 lakh,” he said. He said the oxygen situation and availability of ICU beds are under control. He added that five days were not enough (lockdown began on May 8) to understand the benefits of lockdown. Out of 14 districts in about 12 the TPR is above 25 per cent. When asked about the ICMR direction to shut down all districts with more than 10% TPR he said it was for the Centre to decide. As per the health ministry records the state has reported 6033 Covid-19 deaths so far but experts are of the opinion that the actual rate is much higher. Relatives of many deceased said the names of their kin were not there in the Covid-19 death count. “Last week one of the crematoriums in Palakkad cremated 125 bodies but only 40 figured in the official list,” lamented a caretaker of a leading crematorium. As the death rate goes up Thiruvananthapuram district collector Navjot Khosa has ordered all crematoriums to function for 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-logs-another-high-with-43-529-new-covid-19-cases-tpr-nearly-30-101620845566367.html
13-05-2021||India||Most of country should remain under lockdown for 6-8 weeks: ICMR chief||The head of the main Indian health agency responding to the coronavirus has said districts reporting a high number of infections should remain locked down for another six to eight weeks to control the spread of the rampaging disease.Dr. Balram Bhargava, head of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), said in an interview that lockdown restrictions should remain in place in all districts where the rate of infection is above 10% of those tested.Currently, three-fourths of country's 718 districts have what is known as a test-positivity rate above 10%, including major cities like New Delhi, Mumbai and the tech hub of Bengaluru.Bhargava's comments are the first time a senior government official has outlined how long lockdowns, which already encompass large parts of country, need to continue to rein in the crisis in India.Prime Minister Narendra Modi's government has shied away from imposing a nationwide lockdown because of the economic impact and has left it to state governments.Several states have introduced varying levels of curbs on economic activity and public movement to stop the spread of the virus, which are mostly being reviewed and extended on a weekly or fortnightly basis."The high positivity districts should remain (shut). If they come to 5% from 10% (positivity rate) we can open them, but that has to happen. That won't happen in six-eight weeks, clearly," Bhargava said in an interview at the New Delhi headquarters of the ICMR, the country's top medical research body.Referring to the capital, one of the hardest hit cities where the positivity rate reached around 35% but has now fallen to about 17%, Bhargava said: "If Delhi is opened tomorrow, it will be a disaster."The country is in deep crisis in the current wave of Covid-19 infections with around 350,000 cases and 4,000 deaths being reported daily. Hospitals and morgues are overflowing, medical staff is exhausted and oxygen and drugs are running short.Many experts say the actual case tallies and deaths could be five to 10 times higher.Modi and other top political leaders have faced a public backlash for addressing mass election rallies where no major Covid-19 safety protocols were followed. The federal government also didn't intervene to stop a religious festival in a northern state in March that was attended by millions of devotees.'SLIGHT DELAY'Bhargava did not criticise the Modi government but conceded there had been a delay in responding to the crisis."I think the only discontent we have was there was a slight delay accepting the 10% (recommendation), but that did happen," he said.He said an April 15 meeting of the National Task Force on Covid-19 had made the recommendation to the government to lock down areas with a 10% positivity rate or higher.Yet, in a televised speech on April 20, Modi dissuaded states and said a lockdown should be used as "last resort" and the focus should remain on "micro containment zones".On April 26 - more than 10 days after the task force meeting - home (interior) ministry wrote to states, asking them to implement strict measures for "large containment areas" in hard-hit districts, but only for 14 days.Home and health ministries, as well as Modi's office, did not respond to requests for comment.Reuters reported earlier this month the head of the National Centre for Disease Control had privately told an online gathering that strict lockdown measures were required in early April.Two senior ICMR officials told Reuters the organization was frustrated about political leaders addressing large rallies and allowing religious gatherings, saying the actions publicly flouted required safety measures. Modi himself addressed several of the political meetings, maskless."Our messaging has been completely incorrect, not in sync with the situation," said one of the officials, referring to the government. "We have miserably failed."Bhargava denied there was any discontent within the ICMR and added the agency was on the same page with policymakers. Without commenting directly on political leaders, he said mass gatherings during Covid-19 should not be acceptable in India or anywhere else."It's common sense," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/most-of-country-should-remain-under-lockdown-for-6-8-weeks-icmr-chief-101620843920982.html
13-05-2021||India||Covaxin receives nod for trials on children||India’s drug regulator has given Bharat Biotech the permission to conduct clinical trials of its Covid-19 vaccine, Covaxin, on children between the age of 2 and 18, paving way for the first coronavirus inoculation to be tested in minors in the country.According to officials who asked not to be named, the drugs regulator acted on the recommendations by the subject expert committee (SEC) of the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation’s (CDSCO) which was in favour of the trials, though with certain conditions.The move comes as experts in India have underlined the need to vaccinate people below the age of 18 since there cannot be a proper opening up until the entire population is protected.Bharat Biotech and Serum Institute of India, which produces Covishield, are the makers of the two Covid-19 vaccines approved in India in January.US regulators this week gave emergency use authorisation to Pfizer-BioNTech’s Covid-19 vaccine for children aged between 12 and 15. The vaccine was already being administrated to those above 16. Canada became the first country in the world to approve Pfizer’s Covid-19 vaccine for ages as young as 12 on May 5.“The panel [SEC] approval is for the phase II/III trials under certain conditions,” an official privy to the matter said, requesting anonymity.The second interim phase-3 analysis of Covaxin has shown 78% efficacy, although the data is yet to be peer-reviewed and published.As part of the SEC recommendation, the company was asked to submit the interim safety data of phase II clinical trials along with the data safety and management board recommendations to the CDSCO before it intended to proceed to seek permission for phase III of the trials.The trials will evaluate Covaxin for safety, reactogenicity, or a subset of adverse events, and immunogenicity, which relates to how well a vaccine works. All these parameters are necessary for a vaccine to get approval for use.The trials are expected to involve 525 participants at hospitals including Patna and Delhi’s All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS).Covaxin, the first Covid-19 vaccine developed in India, was made following a partnership between Bharat Biotech and the Indian Council of Medical Research. It is a whole virion inactivated vaccine, which uses a weakened or deactivated virus (Sars-Cov-2) responsible for the disease to trigger immunity against it.In February, Bharat Biotech approached the regulator with a proposal to conduct phase 3 Covaxin trials on people in the 5-18 age group. But the company was asked to return with the efficacy data of its vaccine in adults first before testing on people in this younger group. Bharat Biotech was also asked to submit a revised clinical trials protocol for children at an SEC meeting held on February 24.“After detailed deliberation, the committee recommended that the firm should submit efficacy and safety data of the ongoing Phase III clinical trial in adults along with the age subgroup analysis. The design of trial should be revised to Phase II/III. Sample size and other consequential changes should be made to the protocol, accordingly. Accordingly firm shall submit revised clinical trial protocol for review of the committee,” the minutes of the February 24 meeting read.In the subject expert committee meeting held on April 23, Bharat Biotech presented the second interim safety and efficacy data of the phase III clinical trials of Covaxin among adults in the country.On Tuesday, May 11, SEC again heard the company’s proposal of conducting trials among children, and granted the requisite approval for conducting trials.Bharat Biotech did not comment on the development at the time of going to press.Experts said it’s high time to get data on how the vaccines behave in children. “We need quick data and some analysis of risk-benefit for children,” said Dr Randeep Guleria, director, AIIMS, Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bharat-biotech-gets-approval-to-conduct-covaxin-clinical-trials-on-kids-101620803970878.html
13-05-2021||NA||LIVE: Bengal sees record jump in daily Covid cases at 20,377; 135 more deaths||India on Wednesday recorded 348,421 fresh Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours, according to Union health ministry dashboard. As many as 4,205 new deaths were also registered. The country has so far reported a total of 23.34 million cases and 254,197 deaths respectively.India is currently dealing with a devastating second Covid-19 wave that has swept through the nation, crushing the country's health infrastructure and overburdening frontline medical workers.The global Covid-19 disease caseload has climbed to 160,302,248 of which 3,330,287 people have died and 138,040,807 have recovered, according to worldometers.info. The United States continues to remain the worst-hit country from the pandemic with 33,548,056 cases and 596,925 deaths respectively.Meanwhile, a top White House state Department official has said that the US is working closely with India on its continued and emerging needs during the unprecedented second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic.Follow all the updates here:Bengal sees record jump in daily Covid cases at 20,377; 135 more deathsBengal on Wednesday recorded the highest single day spike in Covid-19 cases at 20,377, taking the tally to 1,053,117, according to the state health department's bulletin. This is the second consecutive day that the new cases remained above the 20,000-mark. The death toll rose to 12,728 as 135 more people succumbed to the disease.Jharkhand extends lockdown like restrictions till May 27 to curb Covid spreadLockdown like restrictions in Jharkhand have been extended till May 27 to curb the spread of the Covid-19 disease, the state government announced on Wednesday adding there will be stricter restrictions including a seven day compulsory quarantine for those visiting Jharkhand. Read moreHaryana reports nearly 12,500 new Covid cases, 165 more deaths12,490 new #COVID19 cases, 14,264 recoveries and 165 deaths reported in Haryana todayCase tally: 6,52,742Active cases: 1,07,058 pic.twitter.com/PgwlLRSxHcHaryana's caseload of the Covid-19 disease climbed to 652,742 after 12,490 new cases and 165 more deaths were reported on Wednesday, according to the state health department's bulletin.UK registers 2,284 new Covid-19 cases, 11 more deathsThe United Kingdom on Wednesday recorded 2,284 new cases of the Covid-19 disease and 11 more deaths, according to news agency Reuters. The caseload is now over 4.44 million.Uttarakhand to import 2 million doses of Sputnik Covid vaccineUttarakhand will now import 2 million doses of Russia's Sputnik vaccine over the next two months, officials told news agency PTI adding a five member committee has been formed for this purpose and the required funds have been arranged.Maharashtra records 46,781 new Covid-19 cases; Mumbai’s daily tally goes over 2,000 againMaharashtra's daily tally of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) continued to rise on Wednesday with 46,781 new cases and 816 more deaths recorded in the last 24 hours, taking the caseload and death toll to 5,226,710 and 78,007 respectively, according to the state health department's bulletin. Read moreMaharashtra cabinet wants lockdown to be extended by 2 weeks, CM to take decision soon: TopeAmid speculations that the ongoing lockdown-like restrictions in Maharashtra will be extended further, state health minister Rajesh Tope said on Wednesday that the state cabinet wants these restrictions to be extended for another two weeks. However, Tope said a final decision in this regard will be taken by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray soon.Maharashtra suspends Covid vaccination for 18-44 age group, says health minister TopeMaharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope announced on Wednesday that the state government has suspended vaccination against the Covid-19 disease for beneficiaries between 18-44 years due to a shortage of vaccine doses.Andhra Pradesh registers 21,452 new Covid-19 cases, 89 deaths21,452 new #COVID19 cases, 89 deaths and 19,095 recoveries reported in Andhra Pradesh todayTotal cases: 13,44,386Active cases: 1,97,370 pic.twitter.com/8odxdk08bvGoa reports 2,865 new Covid-19 cases, 70 deathsGoa reports 2865 new #COVID19 cases, 70 deaths and 2840 recoveries in the last 24 hoursTotal cases: 1,27,639Active cases: 32,791 pic.twitter.com/QfAqnjp77OKerala logs 43,529 new Covid-19 cases, 95 deathsKerala reported 43,529 new Covid-19 cases and 95 deaths in the last 24 hours. With the new fatalities, the death toll in the state reached 6,053, ANI quoted chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan as saying.Moderna to supply 25 million Covid-19 vaccine doses to AustraliaModerna Inc on Wednesday announced a supply past with Australia for 25 million Covid-19 vaccine doses. Of the 25 million, 10 million doses against the original strain of coronavirus will be delivered this year, reported Reuters.Delhi reports 13,287 new Covid-19 cases, takes active caseload to 82,725Delhi on Wednesday reported 13,287 new Covid-19 cases, 14,071 recoveries and 30 fatalities in the last 24 hours. The active cases in the national capital now stand at 82,725, according to the health bulletin.Norway to not use AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine: ReportNorway will not resume the use of the Covid-19 vaccine made by AstraZeneca as part of its vaccination drive due to a risk of rare but harmful side-effects, Reuters reported citing newspaper VG's report on Wednesday.Covid-19 UK strain found in Rajasthan: State health ministerThe UK variant of Covid-19 has been found in the samples sent from Rajasthan for genome sequencing, state health minister Raghu Sharma said on Wednesday, reported PTI.Taiwan reports 16 Covid-19 cases, Taiwan president asks public to not panicAfter 16 cases of Covid-19 were reported in Taiwan on Wednesday, president Tsai Yin-wen sought to reassure the public that the government is capable of controlling the further outbreak and that they should not panic. The exact origins of the cases have not yet been discovered, reported AP.Journalists must be treated as frontline staff for Covid-19 vaccination: Devendra FadnavisMaharashtra Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis on Wednesday demanded that journalists, photographers and camerapersons be included in the frontline workers category to get them inoculated against coronavirus.PM CARES Fund approves procurement of 1,50,000 units of Oxycare SystemPM CARES Fund has approved procurement of 1,50,000 units of Oxycare System developed by DRDO at a cost of ₹322.5 Cr. It's a SpO2 based Oxygen Supply System, that regulates oxygen being administered to patients based on sensed SpO2 levels: DRDOTaiwan's leader seeks to reassure over new virus casesTaiwan's president on Wednesday sought to reassure the public that the government is capable of withstanding a further outbreak of Covid-19 after six local cases were detected.Russia reports 8,217 new Covid-19 cases, 355 deathsRussia reported 8,217 new Covid19 cases on Wednesday, including 2,718 in Moscow, taking the national infection tally to 4,905,059.500-bed ICU Centre for Covid-19 patients in Delhi to become operational from today500-bed ICU Centre for Covid-19 patients at Delhi's Ramlila Ground to become operational from today.Odisha: 10,982 new Covid-19 cases, vaccination soon for vulnerable people without ID proofOdisha on Wednesday reported 10,982 new Covid-19 cases and 17 more deaths, a Health Department official said.Govt engaging with manufacturers to ramp up production of Amphotericin B : Ministry of Chemicals and FertilizersGoI is engaging with manufacturers to ramp up production of Amphotericin B - to fight Mucormycosis. States requested to put in place a mechanism for equitable distribution of supplies amongst govt and private hospitals and health care agencies: Ministry of Chemicals and Fertilizers.Pondy adds 2,007 new cases to Covid-19 tallyPuducherry posted 2,007 fresh cases of coronavirus on Wednesday, pushing the total positives to 77,031. Twenty-seven more people succumbed to the disease during last twenty-four hours raising the toll to 1025.Over 3 million beneficiaries in age group 18-44 years vaccinated against Covid-19: Health ministryIndia’s cumulative vaccination coverage exceeds 17.5 croreMore than 30 lakh beneficiaries of age group 18-44 Vaccinated so farDetails: https://t.co/KhtGSyl94B pic.twitter.com/7mGbFfsSUcIndonesia study finds China's Sinovac Covid-19 vaccine highly effective in health workersAn analysis of Indonesian healthcare workers inoculated with a Covid-19 vaccine developed by China's Sinovac Biotech showed it was 98% effective at preventing death and 96% effective at preventing hospitalisation, a health ministry official said.Arunachal Pradesh reports 205 new Covid-19 cases, 4 deathsA total of 205 new Covid-19 cases and four deaths were reported on Tuesday, informed the state health ministry on Wednesday.China gives Bangladesh 500K vaccine dosesChina delivered 500,000 doses of Sinopharm vaccine as a gift to Bangladesh on Wednesday to help it cope with a shortage.Allu Arjun tests negative for Covid-19Telugu star Allu Arjun on Wednesday said he has tested negative for novel coronavirus.Request Centre to stop export of vaccine and share vaccine formula with other manufacturers: SisodiaRequest Centre to understand severity of situation, stop export of vaccine and share vaccine formula with other manufacturers: Manish Sisodia.We had demanded 1.34 cr doses, 67 lakhs each of Covaxin and Covishield: Manish SisodiaWe had demanded 1.34 cr doses, 67 lakhs each of Covaxin and Covishield. Covaxin (Bharat Biotech) wrote to us yesterday that they can't provide. They wrote 'we're making dispatches as per directives of concerned govt officials'. Obvious that these are central govt officials. The letter by Covaxin manufacturers clarifies that central govt decides which state will get how many doses: Delhi Dy CM Manish Sisodia.Exporting 6.6 crore doses was biggest mistake, says Manish SisodiaOnce again I would say exporting 6.6 crore doses was biggest mistake. We are forced to shutdown 100 covaxin-vaccination sites in 17 schools due to no supply: Manish Sisodia.Puducherry reports 2,007 new Covid-19 positive casesPuducherry reports 2,007 new Covid-19 positive cases, 1,247 recoveries and 27 deaths in the last 24 hours. Active cases at 15,562 and total cases at 77,031.Complete lockdown to be imposed in Chhattisgarh's Gaurela-Pendra-Marwahi districtComplete lockdown to be imposed in Chhattisgarh's Gaurela-Pendra-Marwahi district from midnight today till midnight of May 15, in view of rise in Covid-19 cases.Japan's coronavirus vaccine booking system crashesTechnical problems derailed Japan's coronavirus vaccination booking system on Wednesday, compounding frustration over the government's handling of new outbreaks of infections and an inoculation drive that critics say has been woefully slow.Hospitals in Nepal run short of oxygen, turn away Covid-19 patientsSeveral hospitals in and around Nepal's capital city of Kathmandu have started turning down patients following the government's decision to cap the supply of life-saving medical oxygen, thereby affecting operation of hospitals treating the rising number of Covid-19 cases in the country.Second Covid wave seems to have flattened but won’t end before July: virologist Shahid JameelIndia’s second Covid-19 wave seems to have flattened but the climb down will be a more prolonged, long drawn-out process than the first and will possibly run till July, says eminent virologist Shahid Jameel.Padres' Fernando Tatis Jr., Wil Myers test positive for Covid-19The San Diego Padres placed shortstop Fernando Tatis Jr. and right fielder Wil Myers on the injured list Tuesday after they tested positive for Covid-19.South Korea's Covid-19 vaccine shortages overshadow Moon-Biden summitSouth Korea's struggle to boost coronavirus vaccine supplies is threatening to overshadow President Moon Jae-in's first summit with US President Joe Biden, with pressure mounting on Moon to secure more and faster deliveries of U.S.-made shots.Harsh Vardhan to hold meeting with Health Ministers of some states that are lagging behind in Covid-19 vaccinationUnion Health Minister Dr Harsh Vardhan will have a meeting today, with the Health Ministers of some states that are lagging behind in Covid-19 vaccination. He will hold the meeting with the Health Ministers of Jammu and Kashmir, Uttarakhand, Haryana, Punjab, Bihar, Jharkhand, Odisha and Telangana.Dr Reddy’s Laboratories Ltd has entered into a licensing agreement with Eli Lilly and Company for manufacture, commercialization of Baricitinib in IndiaDr Reddy’s Laboratories Ltd has entered into a royalty-free, non-exclusive voluntary licensing agreement with Eli Lilly and Company for the manufacture and commercialization of the drug, baricitinib, in India.It received restricted emergency use approval from Central Drugs Std Control Org, Health Ministry, for use in combination with Remdesivir to treat suspected/laboratory-confirmed Covid in hospitalized adults requiring supplemental oxygen, invasive mechanical ventilation: Dr Reddy's.Scientists race to study variants in India as coronavirus cases explodeA potentially worrisome variant of the coronavirus detected in India may spread more easily. But the country is behind in doing the kind of testing needed to track it and understand it better.Mizoram reports highest single-day spike of 240 Covid-19 casesMizoram on Wednesday reported the highest single-day spike of 240 Covid-19 cases, pushing the tally to 8,035, an official said.With 4,205 new Covid-19 deaths and 348,421 fresh cases, India's tally crosses 23.34 million, toll at 254,197India records fresh 348,421 Covid-19 cases, 42,05 deaths in last 24 hours.Maharashtra: 2 die of mucormycosis in Thane, 6 hospitalisedTwo Covid-19 patients have died due to mucormycosis, a serious but rare fungal infection, in Maharashtra's Thane district, a health official said on Wednesday.19,83,804 samples were tested yesterday: ICMR30,75,83,991 samples tested up to May 11 for Covid-19. Of these, 19,83,804 samples were tested yesterday: Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).Taiwan may raise Covid-19 alert, shut non-essential shopsTaiwan may raise its Covid-19 alert level in "coming days", Health Minister Chen Shih-chung said on Wednesday, according to the official Central News Agency, which would lead to closure of shops dealing in non-essential items as infections rise.56 prisoners in Haryana's Karnal Jail test positive for Covid-19As many as 56 prisoners in Haryana's Karnal Jail had tested positive for Covid-19 in the last few days.Bharat Biotech's Covaxin given nod for phase 2 and 3 human trials on 2-18 year oldsSubject Expert Committee (SEC) gives nod to Bharat Biotech's Covaxin for phase 2 and 3 human clinical trials on 2 to 18-year-olds: Sources, reports news agency ANI.'Perform yagna, Covid third wave won't touch India': MP Minister Usha ThakurMadhya Pradesh Culture Minister Usha Thakur, who has been giving controversial comments especially related to the Covid-19 pandemic, on Tuesday came up with another suggestion by asking people to perform 'yagna chikitsa' (ceremonial fire ritual) for four days to ward off the third wave of Covid-19.50-bed Covid-19 care centre to set up at Ludhiana's Sant Ishar Singh Memorial HospitalTo augment the health infrastructure especially in the rural hinterland which has been witnessing a spurt in Covid-19 infections, the district administration on Tuesday stated that a 50-bedded Covid Care Centre will start its operations at Sant Ishar Singh Memorial Hospital, Ludhiana from May 14 onwards.About 8 Maoist cadres die of Covid-19, another 15-20 are seriously illAbout seven to eight Maoist cadres have died of Covid-19 and about 15 to 20 others are seriously ill, a letter seized from a Communist Party of India (Maoist) leader said.Second Covid wave could crimp India's long-term growth: Moody'sIndia's severe second wave of coronavirus infections will slow near-term economic recovery and could weigh on longer-term growth dynamics, rating agency Moody's Investors Service said in a note on Tuesday.Flight from South Korea carrying medical aid lands in DelhiCooperation with Republic of Korea continues. Consignment of medical equipment including 200 oxygen concentrators arrives. Appreciate this support from our partner: MEA Spokesperson Arindam Bagchi.Biden urged to take decisive global leadership on Covid-19In an open letter, a group of eminent global business and policy leaders has urged US President Joe Biden to demonstrate a decisive American leadership in the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic.Hospitals in tourist-haven Costa Rica in 'serious' phase as Covid-19 cases surgeHospitals in the Central American nation of Costa Rica are running out of space for Covid-19 patients amid a new wave of infections, the president of the national doctors' union said on Tuesday.Brazil states suspend AstraZeneca vaccine for pregnant womenSao Paulo, Rio de Janeiro and other Brazilian states on Tuesday suspended immunization of pregnant women with the AstraZeneca coronavirus vaccine on the advice of the national health regulator after a reported death.Ambulance driver in Andhra suspended for leaving Covid patient's body on roadA driver of a government ambulance was suspended for leaving a Covid patient's body in the outskirts of a village in the Krishna district on Tuesday.Brazil buys 100 million more doses of Pfizer's Covid-19 vaccineBrazil's Health Ministry on Tuesday announced it had signed a deal for Pfizer to deliver an additional 100 million doses of its Covid-19 vaccine, doubling the number of shots from the company.Uttarakhand forms committee to float global tenders for Covid vaccines procurementAmid the shortage of Covid vaccines supply, the Uttarakhand Government has constituted a 5-member committee which will work towards procuring vaccines through global tenders.Uttarakhand Chief Secretary on Tuesday constituted a 5-member committee for vaccine procurement.Uttarakhand becomes 9th state to receive Oxygen Express from RailwaysUttarakhand has become the ninth state to receive Oxygen Express from the Indian Railways amid the Covid-19 pandemic.Indian Covid-19 variant found in 44 countries, all regions: WHOThe World Health Organization said Wednesday that a variant of Covid-19 behind the acceleration of India's explosive outbreak has been found in dozens of countries all over the world.Locals defy Covid-19 norms at Hyderabad's Charminar areaSeveral people flouted Covid-19 norms while shopping for Eid at the markets of Hyderabad on Tuesday.US working closely with India on Covid-19 crisis: White House officialThe US is working closely with India on its continued and emerging needs during the unprecedented second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, a top State Department official has said.Samsung BioLogics to produce Pfizer's Covid-19 vaccine: ReportSamsung BioLogics Co Ltd is in talks with Pfizer Inc to begin production of the US drugmaker's Covid-19 vaccine in South Korea as early as in August, a South Korean newspaper reported on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-india-world-latest-news-covid-19-death-toll-may-12-2021-101620776463630.html
13-05-2021||Today's||How to vaccinate 10 million people a day||The second wave of the pandemic has hit India hard. Its rapid ascent over the past few months has caused unparalleled adversity to our people. The majority of discussion and deliberation on social media, the news and otherwise puts a spotlight on the here-and-now elements. The circumstances, however, make it crucial for us to aggressively plan and work towards being in a better place, six months from today. Recent lessons from around the world reiterate that to forge ahead and fight the virus, we need to vaccinate our citizens quickly.We need to think of a moonshot. How can we build the capability to both create supply and vaccinate 10 million Indians every day. The task is daunting and will demand significant work. But if we put our minds to it, we can take the first steps towards reaching the goal as early as August.Existing and future candidate-vaccines are in three groups. Those which are already approved (Covaxin, Covishield, Sputnik) in India. Others (e.g. J&J, Pfizer, Moderna) which are being deployed outside but are not yet present in India. And the ones in advanced stages of development (e.g. Covovax, ZyCoV-D, Gennova, Bio E protein subunit, DBT nasal vaccine). For ramping up to 10 million doses a day, we need to expand capacity of current vaccines to meet 50-60% of the required supply. To bridge the gap, we need to accelerate both the development of vaccines in advanced stages and bringing other vaccines into India.We have administered 170 million shots so far. As per the recent run rate, we will likely reach about 450 million shots by the end of July. Imagine a different reality. If we start vaccinating 10 million per day beginning in August, which is admittedly at least three times the current run rate, by the end of October we will reach 1.35 billion shots. This means vaccinating 80% of our entire adult population (roughly 850 million people, 1.7 billion shots) by the end of October.Also Read | The Taste With Vir | Coronavirus Pandemic India: Telling lies about vaccinesVaccinating 10 million a day takes us close to what countries such as the United States (US) and the United Kingdom (UK) accomplished at their peak (at least 1% of the population per day). This throughput also bolsters our capability to administer booster shots every six months for variants of the virus. It will also enable us to cover the population beyond adults — all those above 12 years, a trend we are seeing in countries that were early movers.This goal vis-à-vis timelines, though far from current reality (we all know from trying to book vaccine slots) is not unachievable. Admittedly, we have an overstretched health care system, which must be augmented. While mere incremental efforts will not work, our collective might can make the moonshot a reality.To do this, we need to implement seven big ideas.One, operate in a mission mode and on a war-footing. The US launched Operation Warp Speed in May last year and is now benefiting immensely from it. We need to implement an operation of a similar proportion to de-bottleneck constraints, address supply challenges and take rapid-fire decisions.Two, build an unprecedented partnership between the government and the private sector. Pure market solutions will not suffice. We will need to work collaboratively to recognise industry constraints and de-bottleneck accordingly – e.g., advance purchases, shore up access to critical items like adjuvants and vials which are in short supply, indemnify vaccine manufacturers.Three, capitalise on the Indian pharma industry’s manufacturing strength. If deployed adequately, we have, by far, the largest capacity in the world. We will need to take stock of all domestic vaccine-manufacturing capacity and plan how this can be retrofitted and scaled up – both for Indian vaccine candidates and others.Four, leverage our diplomatic relationships — e.g., tap into excess doses of high-income countries, expedite COVAX delivery, fast-track tech-transfer partnerships, unlock critical raw material imports. A plausible step is to strike bilateral arrangements with countries such as the US which is building a huge stockpile of vaccines. We could guarantee future capacity to them in exchange for our current needs.Five, develop a coordinated approach between the Centre and states. For this to succeed, both the entities must become partners— to plan, source the vaccines, and deploy them. These efforts could be jointly reviewed under a framework akin to the GST council.Six, implement a tiered vaccination delivery network in each state. Integrate mass vaccination sites e.g stadia, shopping areas, drive-ins, with schools and primary health care centres. Augment with precision delivery mechanisms to cover gaps and ensure equity e.g., mobile vans, outreach campaigns as was done in the case of polio. Design a public awareness campaign; leverage celebrities and medical community leaders to address vaccine hesitancy concerns.Also Read | Over a quarter of EU adults would refuse Covid-19 shot: SurveySeven, leverage the best digital technology — Aadhaar-based facial authentication to pre-populate the data, and analytics-driven model for zero wastage and high speed.The agenda is an ambitious one, but difficult times call for bold action. If well executed, this will enable India to build capacity to make in excess of 20 million vaccines a day by January 2022. It can be a game-changer to flatten future waves and revive our economy. And, more importantly, to change the narrative and uplift the national mood.“No one is safe until everyone is safe,” has never been truer for the world. With this plan, we will not only improve the outcomes for our country but also play a pivotal role in shaping the trajectory of the pandemic globally. And we will make a critical contribution to ending this crisis by 2022, not letting it drag on until 2024. That may sound like a dream but to paraphrase John Lennon, I am not the only one.Neeraj Aggarwal is the chairman, Asia Pacific, at BCG The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/how-to-vaccinate-10-million-people-a-day-101620906770674.html
13-05-2021||Today's||The Taste With Vir | Coronavirus Pandemic India: Telling lies about vaccines||It is now generally accepted that we have screwed up our vaccination drive. Even writers and public figures who are not unsympathetic to the BJP have complained about the failure of the vaccine program.It matters because vaccines are the best weapon we have to fight the Covid Pandemic. We have always known this. And yet, we misused the vaccine drive for political purposes, did not order enough vaccines and are now in a situation where --- because vaccines cannot be bought off the shelf --- we have to wait months to find a solution to the crisis.Even then, we will be too late. Most vaccines have two doses taken around a month or more apart. For immunity to properly kick in, it takes another two weeks. So assume we do get more vaccines by July (as the government claims), it will only give those vaccinated immunity in September.The government’s defenders realise that this is where its incompetence is hardest to justify. So a campaign of untruths has been launched to justify the failures. Almost all of the claims made on the government’s behalf are lies or exaggerations.Here is the truth.Claim: This is no shortage. Non-BJP states have messed up the distribution.Truth: This claim was advanced by the Health Minister and then, shockingly echoed by his officials who are supposed to be apolitical. On social media, trolls used it to attack Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray.We know now for sure that this claim is an outright lie because the shortages have been reported across most states including those ruled by the BJP.Since the shortage has become undeniable, the government has been forced to stop blaming Thackeray and other Chief Ministers.ALSO READ | The Taste with Vir: The dream of a modern India is dyingClaim: More recently, the BJP’s IT Cell has blamed the crisis on vaccine hesitancy. Everything would have been fine if there had been no hesitancy we are told.Truth: This is nonsense. Yes, there is vaccine hesitancy all over the world, most notably in the United States. The consequence of vaccine hesitancy is that vaccines lie around unused. This happened in the US.In India, the opposite is true. If we had a lot of vaccine hesitancy, we would have no shortage of vaccines. In fact, we face a huge shortage.Even a ten-year-old (though possibly not JP Nadda who has advanced this lie) can see the contradiction in saying: “People did not take the vaccine which is why we ran out of it.”Claim: The opposition discouraged people from taking the vaccine.Truth: This is based on questions about Covaxin, the vaccine developed by the government (through ICMR) and Bharat Biotech. Covaxin was approved without the third stage trials that are considered mandatory for all vaccines. It was perfectly legitimate to ask why the process had been short-circuited.The government responded by saying that this was a crisis so we could dispense with full testing. Well, maybe. But why not extend that same principle to other vaccines? There were several internationally-approved vaccines that were not given the same easy ride and some ultimately gave up seeking approval in India, or were kept hanging on.If you can dispense with full testing because this is a crisis , then why not extend the same principle to the world’s leading vaccines?Claim: The Opposition opposed ‘India’s own vaccines.’Truth: It is this stuff about “India’s own vaccine” which has got us into this mess. Vaccines are meant to save lives, not promote a political agenda.Yet, from the very beginning our vaccine program has been politicised. In July 2020, the Director of ICMR directed that Covaxin (which ICMR had partnered) should be ready for launch on August 15.This is not how vaccines are tested or approved so the intention clearly was to have a vaccine ready by the time the Prime Minister made his Independence Day speech.Of course the deadline was unrealistic and it did not happen but it offers one indication of how organisations like the ICMR had already become tools of the government’s propaganda program.Then, the Prime Minister decided to announce that our success in developing two vaccines was a symbol of an ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’. We were told that India would handle the crisis with Indian vaccines.Apart from the naked attempt to win political points from what should have been a life-saving exercise, the statement was also untrue. The vaccine made by Serum Institute was developed by Oxford University and licensed to AstraZeneca. Calling it an Indian vaccine is like saying Coca Cola is a symbol of an Atmanirbhar Bharat because it is bottled in India.Next, eager to associate the government with the vaccination program, the Prime Minister’s photo was put on every vaccination certificate. This is unprecedented in a democratic country (Boris Johnson does not put his photo on these things, nor do Joe Biden or even Imran Khan).It was done because, from the start, the vaccine program had a clear agenda: identify the government with a self-reliant Indian vaccine.It wasn’t the Opposition that played politics with the vaccine program. It was the BJP.ALSO READ | The Taste with Vir Sanghvi: The slow death of hopeClaim: It was not possible for us to procure vaccines from abroad.Truth: Actually, it was. But to have done so would have conflicted with the essence of the Atmanirbhar Bharat approach. As far back as November 2020, the Health Minister doubted the ability of Pfizer to manufacture its vaccine in India and declared proudly that “India may not need them”. It was also possible to have procured the Sputnik V Vaccine but we refused to rush ahead.As the crisis has mounted, that position has been junked. We are now talking to Pfizer, importing Sputnik and looking for more foreign vaccines. Unfortunately, this cannot be done at the last minute. If we had ordered more vaccines from foreign manufacturers at the time where the Health Minister was saying we did not need Pfizer, we would not be in this mess today.Claim: The export of vaccines has helped India’s global image.Truth: Has it? Many of the countries we so generously gave vaccines to are now preventing Indians from even selling foot on their territory. The latest is the Maldives which banned all Indians visitors this week.Clearly, the export of vaccines was a political gesture. Even though some of the exports were under the Serum Institute’s obligation to send the AstraZeneca vaccine to other countries, the government clubbed these with its own gifts of vaccines and claimed India had become the world’s vaccine supplier. The initiative was always linked to the Prime Minister personally.In March, the Health Minister declared “Unlike other countries, we have a steady supply of vaccines,” adding the mandatory praise of the Prime Minister: “We are fortunate to have a global leader who insisted that vaccines should be provided.”The Foreign Minister (who really should know better) declared that we were able to give away these vaccines because we had managed Covid so well because our success “resulted from the Prime Minister’s leadership.”Claim: In any case, we only exported a small number of vaccines.Truth: That’s a lie. The Indian Express has calculated that we exported so many vaccines that (at the current rate) we could have inoculated nationwide for 30 days. Put another way, we exported enough to vaccinate the entire adult population of Delhi and Mumbai with the full two doses.Small amount, etc.?Claim: What can India do? Production capacity is limited.Truth: Indeed it is. But we knew that right from the beginning.We were told (and believed) that India supplies 60 per cent of the world’s vaccines. This is misleading for two reasons. First the figure is based on a different statistic: that India supplies 60 per cent of the vaccines that UNICEF uses. This may be true. But UNICEF is not the whole world.Secondly, we produce nowhere near 60 per cent of the world’s Covid vaccines. Facilities making other vaccines cannot be transformed overnight to those required for say, Covishield. That takes time and money. We did not bother to stump up the money or act in time.So, even at the beginning of the pandemic it was clear to anybody who had done 6th standard arithmetic that we did not have the domestic capacity to vaccinate our adult population.We could have expanded capacity. The Serum Institute had been asking for funds to do that. For all the patriotic hype about Covaxin, it has a tiny production compared to Serum Institute’s capacity. We could have easily licensed other manufacturers to make Covaxin.We did no such thing.Claim: It is the fault of the states for asking for a liberalised vaccine procurement regime.Truth: This is a red herring. We had run short of vaccines long before we involved the states in procurement.Claim: The Prime Minister bowed to pressure and allowed all adults to be eligible for the vaccine. It is the fault of those who put pressure on him.Truth: The poor dear! The fact is that the Prime Minister is a strong leader. He doesn’t bow to pressure from anyone. He has refused to sack the idiots who got us into this mess. He has refused to admit to any failings in the program. He has ignored the furore over Central Vista.But on this one issue, his nerve failed him and the poor man gave in?Yeah, sure.Even if he was responding to pressure (Ha!) this was still his decision. He expanded the eligibility criteria when there were not enough vaccines.As he must have known.Claim: Nobody could have predicted the Second Wave which is why we don’t have enough vaccines.Truth: Actually no. Even if there was no Second Wave, we were still intending to vaccinate our adult population. And we would still have run out of vaccines.Besides, the Second Wave was not unexpected. The UK, which recognised that it had a dangerous new variant locked down and stepped up vaccination when its Second Wave was beginning to hit. In India we failed to identify our new variant, then denied its existence for too long and then ran out of vaccines.Claim: The world has appreciated our handling of the pandemic.Truth: Nobody has. The general consensus, summed up Dr. Anthony Fauci, is that we let our guard down, became smug and let the Second Wave kill off so many of our people.We screwed up because our vaccine program is in the hands of pompous, incompetent idiots and the government put politics and image-building over the lives of Indians.And so, people died.For more stories by Vir Sanghvi read here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-taste-with-vir-coronavirus-pandemic-india-telling-lies-about-vaccines-101620903351944.html
13-05-2021||Today's||Pakistan, Saudi Arabia and the Night of Power||In the early 1980s, Pakistani dictator General Zia ul-Haq was ostracised by the Gulf Arabs for executing his predecessor Zulfiqar Ali Bhutto. His strategy was to go to Mecca on the Lailat al-Qadr, the “Night of Power”, in Holy Ramadan. He knew that the Saudi King and senior Al-Sauds would all be there and could hardly refuse his request to pray together on this auspicious occasion. This networking tactic got him rehabilitated in Saudi Arabia and became an enduring tradition of Pakistani diplomacy.Nearly four decades later, Pakistani Prime Minister Imran Khan, facing a similar cold-shoulder from Saudi Arabia, has followed General Zia’s footsteps to Mecca on the Lailat al-Qadr last Friday, albeit with mixed results.Indeed, Pakistan-Saudi relations have lately been at their lowest since the 1980s, as both sides pursue a nationalistic agenda, taking the other side for granted. In 2015, Pakistan declined to join the Saudi-led military coalition against Yemen’s al-Houthi militia, infuriating Riyadh. In 2018, the Saudis upbraided Khan for conspiring to challenge Riyadh’s Islamic order. In August 2020, Pakistan felt frustrated at Riyadh not willing to organise a high-level Islamic meeting to condemn India’s effective abrogation of Article 370 and threatened to go along with Saudi’s rivals. The Saudi riposte was to seek payment of a $1 billion loan from Pakistan. ​Imran Khan’s visit to Saudi Arabia from May 7 to 9 needs to be analysed against this backdrop. Pakistan’s army chief, General QJ Bajwa, two days earlier, averred to both the importance of the visit and hinted at a military quid pro quo. The visit had good but limited optics. Although PM Khan was welcomed at the airport by Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman (MBS), he was not received by King Salman. Both sides agreed, in a key agreement, to establish Saudi-Pakistan Supreme Coordination Council to be co-chaired by the Saudi Crown Prince and Pakistani PM, mirroring a similar body with India, with which Pakistan seeks parity, although its bilateral engagements are smaller. In 2019-20, for instance, Pakistan-Saudi trade was $2.18 billion, or less than 1/15th of India’s $33.09 billion. Also Read | In the India-Pakistan detente, the role of UAE and Saudi ArabiaThe joint statement after the visit shows attempts at mutual accommodation. Pakistan condemned al-Houthis and the Saudis reciprocated by praising Pakistani “facilitative role” in Afghanistan. The statement was, however, conspicuously silent on several common concerns, such as Iran (Saudi’s bête noir, but Pakistan’s neighbour), and Gulf security (where Islamabad tries to fit in).The statement mentioned Pakistan-India ties, but only at the end of the regional issues. It registers MBS welcoming the recent Indo-Pak ceasefire, adding, “The two sides emphasized the importance of dialogue between Pakistan and India to resolve the outstanding issues between the two countries, especially Jammu and Kashmir dispute, to ensure peace and stability in the region.” By avoiding the usage of the usual Pakistani lexicon on Kashmir, Saudis seem to have succeeded not only in steering clear of the Indian sensitivities but also created a new and more pragmatic template for Pakistan’s position on the dispute.The joint statement is curiously quiet on two issues likely on the Pakistani wish list — Saudi economic commitments and the Pakistani diaspora. While a “framework” for Saudi financing of the projects in Pakistan was signed, there was no mention of any specifics. A Saudi official subsequently put a figure of $500 million for the package, a relatively low number. There was no reference either to the projects, including the Gwadar petrochemical complex, agreed upon during MBS’s 2019 Pakistan visit or any Covid-19 aid. Similarly, there was no mention of the over two million Pakistani expatriates in the Kingdom, remitting £10 billion back home, many of them affected by the Saudisation policy. For Khan, a new-convert to geo-economics, Lailat al-Qadr Summit did not yield the expected Eid hand-outs.Also Read | International travellers will now have to quarantine after entering Saudi ArabiaThis is partly because Saudi Arabia, too, has been hard up. In 2020, the Saudi economy shrank by 4.1% with fiscal deficit and unemployment rising to 11.3% and 12.6% respectively. Besides, Riyadh has to contend with several other challenges — from oil turbulence to a reset with the Joe Biden administration, and from extrication from the Yemeni conflict to containing Iran. To pursue his ambitious “Vision 2030”, MBS has been on a drive to cut losses and make friends. For Riyadh, Pakistan’s return to its fold would be a net gain, particularly as a Praetorian Guard of the last resort. However, after six years of estrangement, it is likely to make haste slowly and cautiously. As an interested party, New Delhi needs to watch the incipient realignment between Islamabad and Riyadh. More substantive economic ties with India have led Riyadh to develop a better, more objective understanding of the Indo-Pak dynamic. Saudi Arabia’s current relations with the two South Asian countries are no longer either a zero-sum game or seen through a religious prism. If anything, Pakistan is on the defensive, and is not likely to get a Saudi carte blanche vis-à-vis India. Yet, it would be unwise for us to take Saudi Arabia for granted. It’s good that recent friction in bilateral oil trade has been put to rest. With or without Pakistan, India and Saudi Arabia have a lot of tangible gains in-store by simply leveraging their potential for economic complementarity. The rest would follow — as day follows night.Mahesh Sachdev is a retired Indian ambassador with expertise in West Asia and President of Eco-Diplomacy and Strategies, a Delhi-based consultancyThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/pakistan-saudi-arabia-and-the-night-of-power-101620898190404.html
13-05-2021||Today's||The race to get vaccinated – Fastest finger first||In all the chaos on the vaccination front, one core aspect has missed the attention it deserves. This is to with the core design of the CoWIN portal itself.I noticed it purely by chance as I sought to get my daughter vaccinated. We have been unsuccessfully trying for the last few days to get an appointment. This is despite being tech savvy myself, and having the benefit of having an even savvier daughter and additional support from my office.Due to the fast disappearing vaccine stock at various outlets and the policies decreed by the Government, there is a tremendous sense of insecurity over the shortage of this key commodity even as the pandemic rages and continues to ravage everyone and everything. As expected, the shortage became evident from May 1 when the 18-45 category – about 600 million of our young citizens – became eligible to get vaccinated. Given the extreme shortage, the Government mandated a “ no walk-ins” policy and allowed vaccination only for bookings through the CoWIN portal. That sounds reasonable. The health minister went to the extent of celebrating the fact that the system did not crash on May 1 due to heavy registration traffic ! That was perhaps misplaced, given the vaccine shortage, but so far so good.Also Read | Defer vaccination for 6 months after recovery from Covid-19, says govt panelThe next few days were full of fun and games for those who tried to get a slot. Given the primary design of the portal, the concept of “fastest finger first”, popularised by TV shows, was put to shame. Vaccination slots opened up – at random times throughout the day– and got filled up in a matter of 5 seconds ! Yes, I have timed it. By the time a registered user got through the process of pin codes, OTPs, etc., all slots would be taken. This could mean only one of two things – either some of our immensely tech savvy generation had created scripts to automate the entire process to beat the queue or, very simply, and more likely, people were glued to their phones or laptops with a smartphone in tow throughout the day. It would seem the vaccinations were meant only for those who possessed all three of the following personal characteristics : tech savviness, enormous time at their disposal, and finally, the gift of immensely fast neurological responses! These were the chosen few who deserved to be saved first !This process completely eliminates those who remain on the fringes (or do not possess any of these abilities) from getting a slot any time soon. I cannot even think of the predicament of those of who do not possess a smartphone, or a laptop, or blazing connectivity, or indeed the need to be gainfully employed throughout the day to earn a living.Any hope of overcoming Covid makes it necessary for all of us to be inoculated ; and given a vaccine shortage is certain at least till July, there is an urgent need to apply our best minds to change the design principles of the portal to eliminate this huge barrier placed ,howsoever inadvertently, in the success of the vaccination program. It is fairly simple if one thinks through the primary needs of the population and the desirable outcomes of the vaccination strategy : inoculate all, do so systematically in a predictable manner, and do so without any inherent bias to any segment of the population based on either expertise or time availability or both being a relevant factor.The suggested fundamental design of the CoWIN portal should therefore be structured around the following three steps : one, allow people log in at any time from anywhere and express their preferred centres (up to three, say) in the locations sorted by pin codes ; two, configure the system to aggregate the information and then validate the availability by individual vaccination centres ; three, given the shortage of vaccines, conduct a random lottery to pick the lucky ones. The system then sends out messages to the concerned person with a maximum of again, say, three choices of dates and centres. QED.This will eliminate the problems faced by those wanting to be vaccinated. This will also eliminate the possibility of hoarding vaccines by controlling replenishment of each service provider’s stock. For those being vaccinated there will be enough time to plan their daily schedules instead of the current situation. Furthermore, it will eliminate reported issues with respect to the tech savvier population going to primary healthcare centres in rural districts to obtain the shots whilst depriving the local population in those areas. Most issues of logistics, supply chains and wastage of vaccines due to inefficient intrastate allocation and mismatch of supply and demand at individual centres can also be addressed through this.RS Sharma is one the best tech administrators we have, given the experience the nation has had on the Aadhaar project (under the visionary leadership of Nandan Nilekani ), the Income Tax projects, etc. If he is given the time to redesign the CoWIN system to accommodate the 600 million potential vaccinees in the 18-45 category, it will be a substantive step forward even as we use our energies in fighting Covid at the individual level and organise vaccine availability at the national level.The inherent inequity of unequal economic structures or tech skills cannot be the unstated intent driving the vaccination strategy.Prabal Basu RoyThe author is a director, and an Advisor to Chairmen of corporate boards.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-race-to-get-vaccinated-fastest-finger-first-101620886549963.html
13-05-2021||Editorials||A lesson for the State and markets||The National Statistical Office released the Index of Industrial Production (IIP) numbers for March 2021 on May 12. While the 22.4% headline growth number has a strong base effect — IIP contracted by 18.7% in March 2020 — it suggests a strong revival in economic activity in March. The fact that other high frequency indicators such as Goods and Services Tax (GST) collections for April crossed ₹1.4 lakh crore also supports such a view. To be sure, tailwinds from the festive season might have had a role in this pick-up. But it will not be far-fetched to assume that both the State and the markets were beginning to believe that the economy had left the pandemic behind it. Nomura India Business Resumption Index (NIBRI) touched 99.3 in the last week of February. The weekly average of daily new cases reached its lowest levels since June 2020 in the first half of February. Everybody pressed on the throttle in March. And indeed, if all had been well, India’s economic recovery may have sustained.But as India battles the second wave, it is clear that the optimism wasn’t warranted — and indeed, the spike in economic activity may well have exacerbated the health crisis. Had preventive and vigilance measures been put in place earlier, even if it had slowed down the transient economic recovery in March, the second wave may well have been muted. There is a lesson from this self-inflicted irrational exuberance — now that the government itself recognises the possibility of future waves. Markets are driven by self-interest and cannot be expected to mitigate risks from lowered vigilance against the pandemic. It is the State’s responsibility to cover for this rather than becoming a cheerleader.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/a-lesson-for-the-state-and-markets-101620911935631.html
13-05-2021||Editorials||When India overtakes China||China’s population is growing at its slowest pace in decades, adding 72 million people in the past decade, according to the country’s census data released on Tuesday. This means that India is set to overtake its neighbour as the world’s most populous country by 2025, perhaps sooner. While India’s challenges are often attributed to its large population and the pressure it creates on resources, population growth can be an asset, if harnessed properly. India’s challenge has been visible since 2018, when the country’s working-age population (people between 15 and 64 years) grew larger than the dependent population (children aged 14 or below as well as people above 65 years). This bulge in the working-age population is going to last till 2055. Many countries — including China (which entered this stage in 1994) — have used this window to attain their developmental goals. This transition happens because of a decrease in the total fertility rate (number of births per woman) after the increase in life expectancy is stabilised.However, a young population structure, on its own, does not guarantee economic growth. This is intrinsically linked with other factors such as ensuring access to basic education, health and skilling, which can make the young population healthy and productive. A key feature of India’s population story is its regional disparity, which may be sharpened by the pandemic and its impact on the economy and state finances. According to UNFPA, the young bulge in the population will occur in the most under-developed and under-resourced parts of the country: Bihar, Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, and Uttar Pradesh. These five states will account for more than half the growth in the labour force in India.While these states will need universal access to quality sexual and reproductive health information and services, and provisioning of education, life and vocational skills to young people, demographically advanced states such as Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Delhi and Punjab will need to strengthen social and health security for their ageing population. The regional disparity in demography and economic development also means that there will be large-scale migration. The Centre and states must focus on issues of housing, health care, education and skills, and states must provide portability of identity proof and entitlements. India will soon race ahead of China in terms of size, but its real test is how it equips all its citizens.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/when-india-overtakes-china-101620911934132.html
