14-05-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai cops look for woman, daughter booked for cheating investors||Khar police launched a manhunt for a mother-daughter duo from Kalyan for allegedly cheating a businessman to the tune of ₹63.72 lakh on the pretext of investing the amount in 34% share of their shipping company. The duo was out on bail when they went absconding. Police lodged a first information report (FIR) against Ragini and Mansi Khandelwal after the complainant, Ravi Jaisingh, submitted a written application to the police in March.According to Jaisingh, his acquaintance Rashid Agarwal had introduced him to Raju Naik who claimed to have 41% share in a company named Shree Tirupati Balaji Marine Enterprises Ltd which was based in Kalyan Shipyard and manufactured heavy infrastructure vessels and tug boats.Naik took Jaisingh to the shipyard and asked him to invest ₹50 lakh in the same firm, however, the businessman declined. Later Naik introduced him to Mansi Khandelwal who had 49% shares in the company. Police officers said that Mansi asked Jaisingh to invest the money to own 34% share of the company.“An MOU was also signed by the accused to the effect,” said an officer from Khar police station.Under this pretext, the mother-daughter duo had extracted ₹63.72 lakh from Jaisingh between 2018 and 2020 and then refused to give him the shares in March 2021. Jaisingh then approached Khar police to lodge a complaint. In February the duo was arrested by Andheri Police for allegedly cheating people of crores of rupees on the pretext of investing in shares of shipyard. They have allegedly duped several investors using the same modus operandi.Acting on the complaint, a probe was initiated after which the police learnt that the modus operandi of the women was to ask businessmen to invest in ships, which could attract monthly returns in lakhs and then refuse to give them their share. “Since Ragini and Mansi got bail on April 23, the duo is absconding,” added the police officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-cops-look-for-woman-daughter-booked-for-cheating-investors-101621016519904.html
14-05-2021||Mumbai||Marathas hope to get their reservation back||The Maratha community is hopeful of revival of their reservation, after the Centre filed a review petition in the Supreme Court (SC) for reconsideration of the order related to states’ powers to list backward classes after the 102nd Constitutional amendment. Community members feel if the top court reviews its verdict on states’ powers, the Maharashtra government can revisit the other grounds on which the quota has been struck down. On the other hand, in the absence of the quota, the community has also started building pressure on the government for implementation of the sops announced for the community. The Centre filed a review petition in the SC on Thursday, pleading it to reconsider its May 5 judgment, which ruled that after the Constitutional amendment in 2018, state governments have no power to draw up their own list of backward classes. The Marathas were given 12% and 13% quota in education and government jobs, respectively, under the Socially and Educationally Backward Classes (SEBC) Act, 2018. The SC quashed it, stating people from the community cannot be declared educationally and socially backward just to bring them in the reserved category. The five-judge SC bench also refused to refer the 1992 Indra Sawhney judgment that set a 50-% cap on reservation to a larger bench for reconsideration. The Maharashtra government has appointed an eight-member committee under retired high court judge Dilip Bhosale to study the SC order and recommend the way forward. “If the top court reviews its verdict, confirming that the powers with the state governments are intact, the ball will again be in the court of the Maharashtra government. Currently, in the wake of the SC order, it is dangling between the state and Centre. Now, the state will have to take a call whether to go for the review of the order related to the findings of the Gaikwad committee, which was the basis of the SEBC quota, or conduct a survey again to establish the backwardness of the community. The committee appointed under the retired high court judge can give recommendations to the state on these fronts,” said an official from Mantralaya. Legal experts also see hope. “The Central government has clarified that the state government’s powers related to reservation were intact. Once their claim is admitted, the Maharashtra government will have the options of appointing a fresh commission to look into the backwardness of the community and conduct the survey again, keeping the SC’s remarks in mind. Even the lacunae in the report, pointed out by the court, could be revisited and revised to establish “exceptional and extraordinary circumstances” to accord the reservation. If it is done, there would be no question of following the 50-% cap on reservation,” said advocate Abhijit Patil, one of the members of coordination committee of lawyers appointed for reservation. Public works department minister and head of the cabinet sub-committee on Maratha reservation Ashok Chavan demanded the Centre file a review petition in the SC for its verdict on the 50-% cap. “We had demanded the Centre’s intervention for a review of the Indra Sawhney verdict, which caps the reservation to 50%. We had demanded the case be transferred to an 11-judge constitution bench. We again urge the Centre to file a review petition for reconsideration of the cap on reservation,” Chavan said on Friday. Bharatiya Janata Party’s state unit chief Chandrakant Patil said the state should announce a ₹3,000-crore package to ensure benefits of the other backward classes to Marathas. “Until the reservation is given again, the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi government should immediately start implementing the benefits and schemes meant for backward classes for the Maratha community. Our government had rolled out the package for the community in the wake of the prolonged process of reservation in 2017,” he said. The community has relaunched its agitation through digital platforms to push for reservation. “We want the state government to take all steps to restore the reservation. The government should tap the legal options available. We have also been pressing for appointment letters to 2,185 youth from the community who have been selected for various posts, but could not get the letters before the stay on reservation. The state should seriously implement the schemes announced to extend the reservation benefits to the community,” said Virendra Pawar of Maratha Kranti Morcha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/marathas-hope-to-get-their-reservation-back-101621015919907.html
14-05-2021||Other||Covid patient’s kin seek action against Bhiwani hospital ICU in-charge||The husband of a Covid patient, who is undergoing treatment at Bhiwani’s Chaudhary Bansilal Government Hospital, alleged that intensive care unit (ICU) in-charge Dr Raghubir shifted his wife from ICU bed to wheelchair for an hour on Thursday to shift one of his relatives even as his wife’s saturation was around 60.The incident took place at around 3.15pm, he added.Complainant who is a resident of a Hisar village said that his wife is undergoing treatment at the Bhiwani hospital since May 9 after she tested positive.“She was on oxygen support and when her situation deteriorated, she was shifted to an ICU bed. On May 13, the ICU in-charge shifted her to a wheelchair to admit his relative. My wife fell unconscious for an hour and we raised an alarm,” he said.“Then the doctors shifted her to another ICU bed but they did not even change the bedsheet. I had tweet about this by tagging the PMO, Haryana health minister Anil Vij, state agriculture minister JP Dalal and the CMO but no action has been taken against the doctor so far,” he added.Bhiwani civil surgeon Dr Sapna Gehlot said the matter has come to her notice. “We have started probe into the matter and strict action will be taken against the doctor if found guilty,” she added.Dr Raghubir could not be reached for a comment on the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid-patient-s-kin-seek-action-against-bhiwani-hospital-icu-incharge-101621011842207.html
14-05-2021||Other||Farm leaders slam Khattar for blaming their agitation for spread of Covid||Farm leaders have condemned Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar for his statement that farmers’ protest turned a few villages into Covid-19 hotspots in state.In a video message, BKU Haryana president Gurnam Singh Charuni slammed Khattar for blaming farmers’ agitation for spread of Covid and said that the virus is killing people due to “mismanagement and poor facilities provided by the government”.“Earlier also, the government had taken steps to end the agitation but failed. Now they are blaming farmers’ agitation to hide their own failure to contain the virus,” he added.“This is propaganda of the BJP government to suppress the agitation but the stir will continue till the government accepts their demands to withdraw the Centre’s three farm laws which allow private players in procurement of agriculture produce,” he said.Charuni blamed people from NCR districts who work in Delhi, Gurugram and Faridabad and travel home regularly for the virus spread in villages.“Farmers cannot be blamed for spread of Covid as not even a single farmer was found infected so far at Delhi borders,” he added.Charuni, who is member of Sanyukta Kisan Morcha which has been leading the agitation at Delhi borders since November last year, has urged farmers to continue their support to the protest.Ratan Mann, Haryana president of BKU (Tikait), said spread of the virus is due to failure of the government which has failed to provide even basic health and medical facilities to people.“The protesting farmers are following all Covid norms. The CM’s allegations are false and will not help government to end our agitation,” he added.Meanwhile, Yamunanagar farmers affiliated to BKU (Charuni) and other farm unions burnt effigies of Khattar and state education minister Kanwar Pal at Milk Majra toll plaza on Jagadhari road.They said the government wants to hide its mismanagement in tackling the Covid situation by blaming farmers.BKU district president Sanju Gudiyana said the ruling party leaders organised public rallies in poll-bound states when there was spike in cases but are now blaming farmers for spread of Covid.“They can’t even provide medical oxygen and medicines to patients and want us to be held accountable for the crisis,” the leader said.FARMERS REFUSING TO GET TESTED: VIJState health minister Anil Vij said that due rise in cases in rural areas, the department has made arrangements to screen every villager.He said villagers are cooperating with the teams, but not the farmers.“Farmers are not getting themselves tested. We have sent many health teams to the protest sites and a meeting took place between farm leaders and officials, but the farmers refused to get tested,” Vij said.He added that at a vaccination camp, just 1,900 farmers got the jab in the last 10 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/farm-leaders-slam-khattar-for-blaming-their-agitation-for-spread-of-covid-101621011600796.html
14-05-2021||Chandigarh||Form state-level committee to monitor black fungus situation: Selja||Expressing concerns over black fungus cases being detected among patients recovering from Covid-19, Haryana Pradesh Congress Committee (HPCC) chief Kumari Selja on Friday alleged that black marketing of medicines used in treatment of the disease has started.“Over 40 cases of black fungal disease have been reported in Haryana in the last few days,” she said in a statement.Selja said it is of serious concern that the Haryana health department does not have district-wise data on how many black fungus patients have been found in state so far.People of Haryana are worried about increase in Covid-19 and black fungus cases, Selja said.Asking the Haryana government to make people aware of black fungus disease, Selja said a state-level committee of doctors should be formed to monitor conditions of all districts, identify patients of black fungus and provide treatment.“The Haryana government should bear cost of treatment and medicines of =patients suffering from black fungus,” she said.Selja said the BJP-JJP government of Haryana is proving to be a failure on every front. “Health services have completely collapsed in state,” she added.The HPCC chief said, “The Covid pandemic is killing people and with it the risk of black fungus disease is also increasing.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/form-state-level-committee-to-monitor-black-fungus-situation-selja-101621011481276.html
14-05-2021||Chandigarh||Covid recovery rate of Haryana rises to 84.4%||Seventeen districts in Haryana registered more recoveries than fresh Covid-19 cases on Friday when 10,608 new cases were detected and 14,577 people recovered from the infection in the last 24 hours, according to the health bulletin.It was for the third consecutive day on Friday that the fresh cases came down despite heavy sampling. Since Monday, Haryana has been registering more recoveries than fresh cases.Till Friday evening, 64,912 samples were taken and 10,608 new cases were recorded. On Thursday, 12,286 cases were detected and 65,141 samples were taken.In May, till Friday, about 7.87 lakh samples were taken of which over 1.87 lakh new cases were recorded while over 1.84 lakh people recovered.The recovery rate rose to 84.4% from 83.55% on Thursday and 82.67% on Wednesday. And the active cases came down to 99,007 from over one lakh on Thursday.Gurugram recorded 2,144 new cases, Faridabad 826, Sonepat 748, Hisar 1,146, Ambala 372, Karnal 483, Panipat 351, Rohtak 368, Rewari 176, Panchkula 418, Kurukshetra 259, Yamunanagar 376, Sirsa 484, Mahendergarh 577, Bhiwani 462, Jhajjar 258, Palwal 217, Fatehabad 334, Kaithal 63, Jind 411, Nuh 76 and Charkhi Dadri 59.There were 164 fatalities in state, 15 people succumbed to the contagion in Gurugram, 16 in Rohtak, 12 in Jind and 11 each in Hisar, Panipat and Bhiwani. Ambala recorded 10 fatalities, Karnal and Yamunanagar nine each. The fatality rate of Haryana was 0.95%.The bulletin stated that 50,716 people were inoculated and the cumulative tally of the people vaccinated was 48 lakh.NUMBER OF COVID+ INMATES IN KARNAL JAIL REACHES 159
14-05-2021||Other||Tomato-growers blame Covid restrictions for wholesale price drop||Tomato farmers in vegetable belts of northern districts of Haryana face losses as the wholesale prices have declined to around ₹2 per kg.The harvesting of this widely-grown vegetable has just begun in the region and farmers said they are not even able to bear the harvesting and transportation cost.“I sold 20 crates (25kg per crate) at ₹80 per crate to a local dealer who then sold it at around ₹120 per crate,” said farmer Nasib Singh, of Ladwa, who has grown tomatoes on four acre.Another farmer Som Prakash of Indri in Karnal said, “Bulk prices are around ₹2-3 per kg and at this cost we will not be able to earn even the production cost which is around ₹30,000 per acre.”The government had announced that farmers can sell their produce even during lockdown but traders and farmers blame Covid-19 restrictions and the lockdown behind fall in prices.“Delhi is the biggest market for vegetables, especially tomato, and now transporters are hesitating to travel to Delhi due to rise in Covid cases,” said vegetable trader Ravinder Kumar.He said even the transporters have increased the transportation charges and most farmers are unable to take their produce to Delhi.According to farmers, last year also the prices of tomatoes had remained around ₹5 per kg during the lockdown as traders from Delhi, who open purchase centres in Haryana for direct purchase from farmers, are not coming in.As per figures of the state horticulture department, the state has around 32,000 hectare under tomato crop this year and the production is likely to remain at around 6.50 lakh tonnes.HARYANA AIMS TO SET UP OVER 1,000 FPOS
14-05-2021||Pune||Mobile thief arrested in Narangibaug||The Pune police crime branch arrested a mobile thief from Narangi Baug area of the upscale Bund Garden area of the city. Acting on a tip off that the accused was on his moped standing at a location in Narangibaug, a team of crime branch sleuths of unit II laid a trap and arrested the accused. He has been identified as Prabhakar Ramesh Singh (21), a resident of Tadiwala road and five stolen mobiles have been recovered from him in person. According to the investigators, the mobiles were stolen from shops located in Bund Garden, Koregaon Park, Market Yard and Lonikand areas of the city. Singh drove a two-wheeler without a number plate while targeting the shops for mobile theft so that he could not be caught by in surveillance cameras and also wore a cap. Police inspector Mahendra Jagtap is the investigating officer in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/mobile-thief-arrested-in-narangibaug-101621009199527.html
14-05-2021||Pune||UGC grants autonomy to Garware College||Maharashtra Education Society’s Garware College of Commerce has been conferred an autonomy by the University Grant Commission (UGC) in the month of February 2021. The autonomy status will be for a period of 10 years (2021-22 to 2030-31). The college received an official letter on Friday from Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) confirming the status. Currently, around 3,000 students seek education in Maharashtra Education Society’s Garware College of Commerce. It offers BCom, MCom, BBA (CA), BBA. (IB) courses, as well has as a PhD research centre in the Commerce section. The entrepreneurship development cell, the placement cell, and the commerce lab are the USPs of the college. Due to its continuous student-centric approach, the college in its third cycle of accreditation has bagged ‘A’ grade from NAAC, Bengaluru. It has also won the ‘Best College award’ from the SPPU. Autonomy will help the college offer additional career-oriented courses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/ugc-grants-autonomy-to-garware-college-101621009139550.html
14-05-2021||Pune||SPPU exploring option of open-book exams||The Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) has begun making major changes in the format of the second semester examination which is scheduled to be held soon. One of the main proposals is to have an ‘open-book exam’ for this semester. The decision will be taken in the SPPU’s board of examination meeting to be held on Saturday. The first semester examination is being held in online mode for students from first to last year of all the courses. The exam is conducted of 50 marks with multiple-choice questions (MCQ) method in online mode. The university’s own SPPU Edutech foundation company is conducting this exam. While going forward with the second semester exams, other alternative options to conduct exams are been explored by SPPU. Despite the use of proctored test method, there are many cheating cases found in the first semester exams. It was found that students were using other electronic gadgets and internet surfing to give answers in the online exams. Many students have got high marks suddenly, so to make the examination more transparent, new alternatives of conducting the exams are being evaluated. SPPU vice-chancellor Prof Nitin Karmalkar said, “As the new technology is upgraded, we also need to change the ways of examination. The number of students appearing for the online exams has increased and even the passing percentage has increased drastically. Also, we have found that the number of cheating cases has increased during the first semester. So, we are now going to look for some other alternatives for exam like open book exams for the second semester exams. The final decision will be taken in the meeting which will be held on Saturday.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/sppu-exploring-option-of-open-book-exams-101621009079651.html
14-05-2021||Other||Secy among 36 persons at health min’s office booked for ‘forcibly’ getting Covid vaccine||An FIR has been lodged against Jamshedpur office in-charge of health and disaster management minister Banna Gupta on charges of forcing vaccination team to administer Covid-19 vaccine to 35 persons below the age of 45 years on May 11, three days before the vaccination drive for 18-44 years age group started in the state from Friday, officials said.“An FIR has been lodged against Sanjay Tiwari and 35 other named accused for forcing a vaccination team to give them Covid-19 vaccine doses at Kadma New Farm Area communiy hall on May 11, despite all of them allegedly being below the age of 45 years, thus violating the state government as well as central government’s guideline and rules,” Manoj Thakur, Kadma police station officer in-charge (OC), said on Friday.The OC said the FIR was filed late Thursday evening on the basis of a complaint lodged by incident commander cum executive magistrate Chandradeo Prasad on Tuesday. “The FIR was also filed for threatening the executive magistrate and three members of vaccination team, under Sections 188, 504 and 506 of IPC, 51 Act and 60, 61 of Epidemic Act,” said Thakur.The matter was also reported to civil surgeon Dr AK Lal, district vaccination nodal officer Dr BN Usha and SDO Nitish Kumar and the complaint was filed as per their direction. “I filed the FIRs after finding allegations made in a written complaint by three female members of the vaccination team to be true. Sanjay Tiwari was told that vaccination was for people above 45 years of age at the centre, but he and 35 others forced the staff to administer them the vaccine,” said Prasad. In their complaint, the three female members of the vaccination team also requested district authorities to shift them from the said vaccination centre in view of their safety and security.As per the complaint, Sanjay Tiwari, health minister Banna Gupta’s personal secretary and office in-charge in Kadma, forced the vaccination team to give doses to 35 persons below the age of 45 years by signing and stamping in columns meant for authorised officers. Prasad filed another complaint late Thursday evening against Tiwari and 25-30 others, accusing them of manhandling, misbehaving, abusing and threatening him. “Tiwari and 25-30 other persons intimidated me again at Kadma New Farm Area vaccination centre Thursday when I reached there around 12.15 pm,” he said.When contacted, Tiwari, however, dismissed the allegations against him by terming them to be concocted and baseless. “I didn’t administer the vaccine to anyone. Who am I (to do that)? Moreover, none from 18-44 years age group can be given vaccine without slot booking,” said Tiwari, conveniently overlooking the fact that no such restriction is there for people above 45 years of age. He also denied intimidating the executive magistrate and said it was some “irate” people who created a ruckus over computer operators reaching late at the centre. “In fact, the operators came at 1.30 pm while people were waiting in the queue since 10am,” said Tiwari.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/secy-among-36-persons-at-health-min-s-office-booked-for-forcibly-getting-covid-vaccine-101621008239460.html
14-05-2021||Other||10 persons issued vaccination certificate without getting the jab in Jamshedpur||The third round of Covid-19 vaccination drive for the age group of 18-44 years hit a hitch at the outset after at least 10 persons were issued vaccination certificates without being administered the dose in Jamshedpur on Friday, as vials “broke”, officials said.“At least 10 persons were not given Covaxin dose at the vaccination centre at Tata Workers’ Union School in Kadma because vials broke after falling on the ground. They will be given the jab in the first session of 9am-11am on Saturday,” Abhishek Kumar, district vaccine manager, said. However, the 10 persons, who were duly registered on Co-Win app, were issued the vaccination certificate.Following the incident, a fresh batch of Covaxin vials were sent to the centre, but the computer operator and nurses allegedly left by 4.32pm, hours before the session ending time of 6pm, said district vaccination nodal officer Dr BN Usha and incident commander at the centre Chandradeo Prasad. However, the computer operator Anay denied the allegation. “We were told to come at 9am Saturday after the vials broke. We still waited for over an hour as we were told another batch of vials were on way. But, the nurses left around 4.30pm after a computer operator called them repeatedly,” one of the 10 registered vaccine beneficiaries Gautam Dubey said.Earlier in the day, the third phase of the vaccination drive in the city started with first dose to one Rekha Singh and Trishit Mazumder at the vaccination center at St Roberts School in Parsudih. The city administration targeted to vaccinate 3,500 persons on the first day at 13 centres. Meanwhile, BJP leders Dinesh Kumar, Anil Modi and Devendra Singh demanded to increase the number of centres in the city, given its population of over 10 lakh. “There’s not a single centre in Jamshedpur (East) assembly segment, while there are two in the health minister’s assembly segment Jamshedpur (West) alone,” said Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/10-persons-issued-vaccination-certificate-without-getting-the-jab-in-jamshedpur-101621008240131.html
14-05-2021||Ranchi||Vaccination for 18-44 group: First day sees||After a fortnight’s delay, Jharkhand finally launched the much-awaited mass vaccination drive to inoculate the targeted 1.57 crore citizens aged between 18-44 years with the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine on Friday.Rolling out the drive at the Covid-19 vaccination centre (CVC) set up on premises of Shri Krishna Institute of Public Administration (SKIPA) in Ranchi, chief minister Hemant Soren said, “After a long wait, we are now able to provide free vaccination to our youths aged between 18-44 years. Vaccine is the safeguard against this infection. So, I appeal everyone to come forward to take the jab.”He added, “It is true that coronavirus keeps changing its genetic code and its new variant surfaces. But, we can’t surrender. We will have to fight back by breaking the chain of infection.”Meanwhile, health minister Banna Gupta said the government was fully committed to protect its citizens. “We are working tirelessly to spruce up the health system and even a small loophole is being plugged,” he said.On Friday, the vaccination drive was launched at 496 CVCs set up across the state to inoculate the targeted 27,539 beneficiaries.State capital Ranchi, which is the hardest hit by the pandemic, has the maximum 13.9 lakh population against the state’s target of 1.57 crore beneficiaries in the aforementioned age group. Five CVCs each for Ranchi urban and rural was set up on Friday to inoculate 1,000 registered beneficiaries.“I am quite relieved axed after taking the shot. It’s really needed for the younger generation that can’t stay indoors due to lot of compulsions. However, I know that maintaining adequate Covid behaviour is still vital even after taking the jab to keep the infection at bay,” said 30-year-old Umesh Kumar, a resident of Ranchi’s Kutchery area, who took the shot at SKIPA CVC.Ranchi district, which has targeted to inoculate 1,000 beneficiaries every day, has all its time slots booked till May 20. More than 15,000 people, who have already registered themselves, are waiting for allotment of time slots. “The booking for time slots for dates after May 20 will be opened in a couple of days,” said an official at Ranchi civil surgeon’s office.He added, “The final coverage figures are being calculated but it has been found that Ranchi on Friday reported above 90% vaccination coverage in this group. It has also been noticed that some people, who are residents of Ranchi urban, have booked slots in rural areas in haste. But, they didn’t turn up. This will lead to cancellation of their session. We request everyone to chose the time slot as per one’s convenience and ensure their presence at CVCs. Non-appearance will deprive a needy persons from taking the shot and lead to wastage of vaccine as well.”Besides Ranchi, Dhanbad district, which has the second largest population under the 18-44 age group, targeted to inoculate 4,930 people on Day 1.The third phase of the nationwide inoculation drive began on May 1 in many parts of the country under which citizens in the age group of 18 to 44 years are allowed to take the jab. But, it could not be started in Jharkhand as the state was required to purchase the doses from the two vaccine manufacturing companies, Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech, that produce Covishield and Covaxin, respectively .Against its purchase orders, Jharkhand has so far received 2.34 lakh doses of Covishield and Covaxin.Pre-registration is mandatory for vaccination in the 18-44 age group, and walk-ins are not allowed under this category for now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/vaccination-for-18-44-group-first-day-sees-101621008179485.html
14-05-2021||Other||Villagers allege problems in cremation as police hike vigil on Bihar-UP border||Buxar/Bhabua The recovery of 82 bodies from river Ganga from near Chausa since Monday and the subsequent blame game between officials of Bihar and Uttar Pradesh has compounded problems for residents of border villages, who say the UP police were not allowing them to cremate bodies at ghats they have used in the past. People from villages in Kaimur district of Bihar often use nearby Jamania Ghat in Ghazipur district of UP for cremation of bodies.On Wednesday and Thursday, some of the villagers going to Jamania from Baraura village of Kaimur district for cremation were stopped by the UP police. “They pleaded that they had got instructions not to allow bodies to enter UP for cremation,” said a family member of Hari Kishore Singh who was accompanying his body for funeral. The family had planned cremation at Jamania. Four such families were denied entry, he said.Jamania subdivisional magistrate (SDM) Ghanshyam dismissed the charge. “There is no ban on cremation. Only, people are being asked not to dispose bodies in Ganga as it will pollute the river. Some mischievous elements are trying to portray a different picture and create unnecessary tension between the two states,” he said. The tension between two states mounted after Buxar district administration put a big net to prevent bodies from flowing downstream Ganga from UP into Bihar. Boat patrols even entered UP areas reportedly to see if any body is being dumped in Ganga in night.The Buxar administration has formed a team to keep an account of bodies and from where they are coming. “The bodies are coming from the direction of flow of the river,” said the SDO (Sadar) K K Upadhyay. Three bodies recovered in BhojpurAlthough no body were found in Ganga near Buxar on Friday, three bodies were recovered further downstream near Sinha Ghat in Bhojpur district.“Two bodies have been recovered in a decomposed state,” said Barhara block development officer (BDO) Jaivardhan Gupta. Buxar district magistrate Aman Samir said on Friday that 80% of the bodies fished out at Chausa were covered with shrouds used during cremation. “No body was found wrapped in hospital or PPE kits,” he said. Samir said there are only 30 Covid positive cases in Chausa area while Buxar district has 1,033 active cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/villagers-allege-problems-in-cremation-as-police-hike-vigil-on-bihar-up-border-101621008119535.html
14-05-2021||Other||Shortage of 45+ vaccines forces Bihar to cut vaccination sites||PATNABihar would be forced to reduce its Covid-19 vaccination session sites as it has only a few vaccines remaining to inoculate its 2.12 crore population of 45 years and above. The state was left with 3,28,530 doses of vaccines for the 45+ population, as per government figures till May 13. After Friday’s consumption, the vaccines were not even enough to last a day if the state were to achieve its average daily vaccination target of 2.50 lakh. The state was left with 1,57,880 doses of Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin and 1,70,650 doses of Covishield from the Serum Institute of India for the 45+ age group, as on May 13. Given the fact that the consumption rate of Covaxin was slow, the state was hard pressed to manage future vaccination for this age group, said officials. The state had received an allotment of over 10 lakh doses of vaccines for the May 1-14 fortnight. It was, however, yet to hear from the Centre about the allotment of vaccines for the fortnight beginning May 15. “We are managing with whatever quantity of vaccines is available with us. We are firefighting on a daily basis. Depending on the availability of vaccines, we may have to decrease the number of session sites,” said Manoj Kumar, executive director, State Health Society, Bihar. Given the vaccine shortage, the state had already decreased the number of vaccination session sites from 3,000 on May 12 to 1,950 on Friday. “We may have to reduce the vaccination session sites further tomorrow as some districts don’t have the vaccines,” said another officer associated with the vaccination programme of the health department. The health department had slowed down its pace of vaccination and shut down many centres after May 12. Bihar had so far received 7,14,960 doses of Covaxin and 80,62,430 doses of Covishield free of cost from the Centre for the 45+ population. It had consumed 5,57,080 doses of Covaxin and 78,91,780 doses of Covishield. The vaccine wastage was 3.7% in case of Covaxin and 1.4% in case of Covishield, said officials. In contrast, the state had more number of vaccines to inoculate the 18-44 years age group, having 5.39 crore population in the state. It had 5,51,140 doses of the two vaccines, of which Covaxin accounted for 56,120 doses and Covishield 4,95,020 doses. It was only on May 12 that the state had received 5 lakh doses of Covishield from Pune. “The state has made available funds for direct procurement of vaccines from the manufacturers for the 18-44 years population,” said Pratyaya Amrit, Bihar’s additional secretary, health. Covid-19 cases go down Bihar reported 7,494 new cases of coronavirus, the lowest single-day cases this month, and 77 deaths on Thursday. The cases have been on a decline over the last three days. Patna reported 967 cases and six deaths during the day, the lowest this month, after recording a high of 3,665 cases on May 6 and 30 deaths on May 2. Purnia contributed 441 cases, Katihar 389, Gopalganj 387, Gaya 350, Muzaffarpur 291, Begusarai 273 and Supaul 268 among others. Bihar’s case recovery rate also went up to 85.38%, the highest this month, after 14,131 people were discharged from different health facilities across the state. Drugs for black fungus not available Liposomal Amphotericin B injection, a specific drug for treatment of cases of mucormycosis or black fungus, was not available in Bihar, claimed the Ruban Hospital, where two cases of the fungal infection were reported on Wednesday. “We have written to the state drug controller to make available the drug for us so that it can be administered to our patients. We did not find the drug anywhere in the state,” said Dr Satyajit Singh, managing director of the Ruban Memorial Hospital in Patna’s Patliputra Colony. Ruban, an NABH-accredited hospital, has been treating cases of coronavirus, and has reported two cases of black fungus as secondary infection developed during the treatment of Covid-19. “A private doctor residing at Rajendra Nagar locality of Patna and suffering from mucormycosis is serious and in intensive care unit. He contracted the fungus as secondary infection during treatment of coronavirus. He was operated upon yesterday for removal of fungus, but is showing signs of multi-organ failure,” said Dr Singh. “Another woman in her mid-40s, with the fungal infection is recovering well,” he added. The number of cases of mucormycosis or black fungus, reported from the state, had gone up to 12, after the two cases at Ruban Hospital and two at Paras-HMRI hospital in Patna recently. Earlier, seven cases of mucormycosis were reported at AIIMS-Patna and one at the Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (IGIMS).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/shortage-of-45-vaccines-forces-bihar-to-cut-vaccination-sites-101621008060124.html
14-05-2021||Other||Covid-19 positive family’s house burgled in Darbhanga||DARBHANGAThieves broke into a house here whose owners are away in Patna for treatment after being infected with Covid-19 and decamped with valuables Thursday night. “It is difficult to assess the stolen valuables in the absence of the house owner,” said a police official who visited the house in Laxmi Sagar locality under University police station on Friday morning. “The almirah in all five rooms downstairs in the two- storied building were found open and the culprits had switched on the lights. The house has been ransacked,” he said.Neighbours said the entire family had gone to Patna after being tested positive for coronavirus on April 28. They were staying in home isolation there. Unfortunately, the family’s host in Patna, a CA by profession, who had taken second dose of vaccine on April 29, died of Covid-19 complications in Paras hospital on Thursday morning. “The family is shocked after death of its relative and now we have learnt about the theft in our house”, said a grieving family member. Darbganga SSP Babu Ram people in the neighbourhood gave information about the burglary on telephone. A police team was sent to spot to investigate the case. Police were awaiting return of family from Patna to lodge a formal complaint.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid19-positive-family-s-house-burgled-in-darbhanga-101621008059510.html
14-05-2021||Pune||Maratha leaders hopeful after Centre files review petition||After the Central government filed a review petition in the Supreme Court (SC) over the Maratha community reservation verdict, Maratha outfits are hoping to get some relief. Vinayak Mete, Shiv Sangram party leader held a press conference today at Patrakar Bhavan and expressed his views over the new development. “We had filed the petition on behalf of Shivsangram organisation over the 102nd constitutional amendment in the SC and made the Central government party in it. While the central government’s attorney general was personally present and he submitted the affidavit, it was mentioned that even after the 102nd constitutional amendment it is possible to give reservation to a certain section of the society,” said Mete at the press conference. “Taking support of the Shivsangram petition, the Central government has submitted their review petition in the SC. While the state government has done nothing over it and the current Mahavikas Aghadi government is just fooling people. The leaders from all the three parties are only creating drama, confusing the Maratha community and not doing anything in terms of legal fight. Due to the fear that the Maratha community will come on the roads, the state-wide lockdown was extended until May-end,” added Mete. While on May 18, the Shivsangram organisation along with other Maratha organisations is going to protest all over the state outside the district collector and Tehslidar offices which will be called as ‘Ishara Nivedan protest’ and after the lockdown is over, from June 1 to 5 the first huge public protest of Maratha community will be organised in Beed. Maratha outfits will hold a press conference in view of the Centre filing a review petition in the Supreme Court on Maratha reservation. Centre has filed a review petition in the SC challenging its verdict over the 102nd constitutional amendment saying that the amendment has done away with the powers of the state concerning the reservation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/maratha-leaders-hopeful-after-centre-files-review-petition-101621006019337.html
14-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra’s daily Covid-19 count drops below 40,000 as tally tops 5.3 million||Maharashtra’s tally of cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) rose to 5,309,215 on Friday as 39,923 more people were found positive for Covid-19 in the state in the preceding 24 hours, a health department bulletin showed. The related death toll, meanwhile, reached 79,552 as the viral disease claimed more 695 lives in this period, the bulletin further showed.This is for the sixth straight day Maharashtra has recorded less than 50,000 fresh infections in a 24-hour period. On May 8, there were 53,605 cases and 864 deaths. On May 10, as well, Maharashtra recorded less than 40,000 cases, as 37,236 people were found positive for the infection.According to the health department bulletin, 53,249 recoveries were also recorded, taking total number of recoveries to 4,707,980. The latest positive cases were from 250,784 samples tested, or a positivity rate of nearly 16%, taking total tests conducted thus far to 30,602,140.Mumbai, the western state’s capital city, saw yet another fall in its daily cases, with 1,660 infections in the last 24 hours, while its death toll rose by 62. Mumbai’s infection tally thus stands at 684,845, including a death toll of 14,102.Maharashtra has the highest Covid-19 caseload among all states and Union territories. On Wednesday, the state government extended lockdown-like curbs till June 1 to break the chain of transmission. However, with a shortage of vaccine doses being reported from across the state, the government has also decided to divert jabs of both Covid-19 vaccines -- Covaxin and Covishield -- to be used as second dose for those above the age of 45. The vaccination of those aged 18-44 has been suspended for now..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-reports-39-923-new-covid-19-cases-as-tally-tops-5-3-million-101620997480757.html
14-05-2021||Pune||No delivery of vehicles on auspicious Akshaytritiya, customers, dealers unhappy||Due to strict lockdown restrictions in the state, all non-essential shops are closed which has impacted the sale of vehicle deliveries on Akshaytritiya, considered to be an auspicious day to bring home a new vehicle. In 2020, there was a similar situation where both the day of Gudhi Padwa and Akshaytritiya went without the sale of new vehicles. This has made showroom dealers and agents furious as their business is completely down. Even the people who had booked their vehicles and were only waiting to take the delivery on these auspicious days are now angry over the delay. “I had booked the car a month back and had planned to take the delivery on Akshaytritiya but suddenly these new lockdown restrictions came, and everything stopped. Our entire family is waiting to take the delivery of our car and hope that these showrooms are allowed to give the deliveries out,” said Mihir Purandare, an IT professional. Even last year when there was a complete lockdown across the country, the two dates of major festivals were missed and there was huge pendency of vehicle deliveries. Similar situation has occurred this year too, when both these days again went into lockdown restrictions and people didn’t receive their vehicle deliveries. A four-wheeler showroom manager who wanted to be anonymous said, “We are receiving calls daily from our customers who have booked the vehicle and demanding for delivery. But as we cannot open the showroom as it is not allowed legally, we tell them to wait till the lockdown is lifted. Still if anyone wants the delivery immediately, we gave them an option to take it directly from our go down without registration.” While the resale cars market is also down and there are no deliveries done this festive period. Atula Jain, owner of Jain Motors said, “All the cars which we got for sale are lying inert and there is no business for us due to the lockdown. We cannot open the shop legally, customers can’t come to choose the cars and no business is being done. The state government should now give some relaxations to do business.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/no-delivery-of-vehicles-on-auspicious-akshaytritiya-customers-dealers-unhappy-101621004099283.html
14-05-2021||Pune||PMC to float global tender next week for Covid vaccine||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has decided to float a global tender next week to procure Covid vaccines for Pune similar to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). After BMC floated a global tender for vaccines, politics over vaccine procurement began in the city. Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader of the house in PMC Ganesh Bidkar made allegations that the state government was not allowing the PMC to float a global tender. PMC municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar clarified that there was no need for the state government’s permission. Despite the clarification, Bidkar wrote a letter to deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar to allow the global tender. Pawar clarified in a press conference that there was no need for the PMC to seek the state government’s permission to float a global tender. Pune mayor Murlidhar Mohol said, “We have started the process of floating a global tender. The administration is studying the tender documents of BMC. After finalizing the term and condition of global tender, we will float the tender. It will take almost a week. We will try to float the tender next week. In the first phase, we need at least 25 lakh doses.” He further said, “We sent a letter to the city-based Serum Institute to directly purchase vaccines from them. I sent a letter to Serum through e-mail and also spoke to senior officials of the institute. However, they haven’t given any confirmation till date. The city needs vaccines either from the global market or from Serum Institute, what is first, we are ready to procure it.” Aba Bagul, Congress leader in PMC said, “The citizens want vaccines. PMC should have to purchase vaccines from companies or float a global tender. I appealed to all party leaders that don’t politicise vaccination drives. There are lots of issues to take political advantage but spare the vaccine issue and save lives. It is public money and used for their welfare.” Prashant Jagtap, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) city president said, “BJP is politicising the vaccine issue. At present, people need vaccines and not politics. When the state and PMC commissioner is saying there is no need to take permission from the state or central government, BJP has highlighted the issue. Now, it has been cleared that no permission is required for the global tender process.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-to-float-global-tender-next-week-for-covid-vaccine-101621004039250.html
14-05-2021||Pune||JICA tender process affected due to lockdown, date extended||The Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) funded pollution abatement of Mula-Mutha river project’s estimate cost has reached ₹1,511 crore and now the tender process has also been delayed due to lockdown. The PMC has extended the tender of the JICA project to May 31, 2021. Jagdish Khanore, project head of JICA said, “The tender documents selling date has been extended up to May 31. The actual last date was March 30, 2021. However, due to the pandemic induced lockdown, there are restrictions on movement. Bidders requested the PMC to extend the date of selling documents.” He further said, “Most of the bidder companies are outside the Pune city and they are facing a problem to get documents. The process of the tender is an offline process.” The project was sanctioned by the Central government under the National River Conservation plan (NRCP) in2015.The actual project cost was ₹990.26 crore. However, due to delays, the estimated cost has gone to ₹1,511 crore. Under the JICA project, the PMC will construct 11 new sewage treatment plants (STPs) in different parts of the city to reduce the pollution of Mula-Mutha. The project will create an additional treatment capacity of 396million litres per day (MLD) over the existing treatment capacity of 477 MLD, laying of 113.6 kms of sewer lines and renovation/rehabilitation of four existing intermediate pumping stations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/jica-tender-process-affected-due-to-lockdown-date-extended-101621003799226.html
14-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi reports 8,506 Covid-19 cases as testing declines, death toll at 289||Delhi on Friday reported fewer than 10,000 Covid-19 cases after it recorded 8,506 new cases, pushing the tally to 13,80,981. The national capital had recorded 10,489 cases on Thursday and 13,287 cases on Wednesday. Friday's numbers marked a steady decline in the daily tally for the third consecutive day. This was the lowest number of cases reported in the capital since April 7, when 7,897 cases were reported.As many as 289 deaths were also reported in the last 24 hours, marking a significant fall from the 308 deaths that were recorded on Thursday. The death toll now stands at 20,907.Delhi logged a positivity rate of 12.40%, witnessing a steady decline from the 14.24% reported on Thursday, and 17.03% recorded on Wednesday. Covid-19 testing has been on the decline. A total of 68,575 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours whereas 73,675 tests were conducted on Thursday and 78,035 tests were carried out on Wednesday.Data released by the health department showed 14,140 individuals made a recovery from the infection on Friday, a slight decline from the 15,189 reported on Thursday. A total of 12,88,280 have recovered from Covid-19 in the national capital till date.Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said in a press conference that Delhi’s infection rate was on the decline and Delhi had recorded less than 10k cases in the last 24 hours, calling it a “good news”.Delhi has vaccinated 1,23,517 beneficiaries in the last 24 hours, 82,943 of whom were inoculated with the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine and 40,574 with the second. Delhi health minister Satyendra Jain told reporters earlier today that Covaxin stock is almost out and the remaining Covishield doses will last only 2-3 days. He urged the Centre to cap the price of vaccines at ₹150.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-reports-8-506-covid-19-cases-as-testing-declines-death-toll-at-289-101620998715661.html
14-05-2021||Pune||College students seek fee reduction due to pandemic situation||Pune: With the next academic year to start soon, many undergraduate and graduate students in Pune have sought the intervention of state education authorities and college management to reduce admission and college fees. Like last year, the students are worried that lockdowns and restrictions have severely hit the financial condition of their families and reducing college education expense is the only way forward for them to continue their studies. “I completed my graduation in Science last year and took a year-long gap due to Covid-19 pandemic. I am planning to take admission for post-graduation this year, but the fees for some courses in private universities and colleges are too high. The state education department should take steps to make college education possible for those from all economic strata,” said students Ketaki Ghanekar. Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) will start the second semester from next month. While the exams are taken online due to the Covid situation, admission for new courses will start by August. Kuldeep Ambekar, student and president of Students Helping Hand organisation, said, “Many students come from rural areas and cannot afford fees because of their economic situation. Some have to leave their studies because they cannot pay fees. We have written to the education department to address the issue.” Pratik Mhaske said, “I have completed my diploma in Computer Science and want to purse a graduation degree. I did not take admission last year due to Covid pandemic, but the fees for courses this year is high.” Rajendra Zunjarrao, principal, Modern College of Arts Science and Commerce, Shivajinagar said, “The Covid pandemic has hit education with many students struggling to pay fees. We have received request from students on reducing fees or waiver, but the final decision lies with the state higher education department.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/college-students-seek-fee-reduction-due-to-pandemic-situation-101621001699177.html
14-05-2021||Mumbai||Malavika’s Mumbaistan: Daughter Courage||This Wednesday morning Washington Post and HT columnist and owner of the digital news network MoJo Story, Barkha Dutt, grief stricken from the loss of her father to Covid-19 a few days earlier and wan and pale from contracting the disease herself, performed a simple ceremony to honour his memory — mixing his ashes into the mud of his favourite rose plant and two evergreen trees in her garden, she knelt in silent prayer to seek his blessings and bid him goodbye. Then, changing into a cotton salwar-kurta, her de rigueur work garb, and duly masked with her PPE kit at hand, she got in her car accompanied by her loyal team, to hit the road again and report on the unfolding Covid catastrophe wreaking havoc across the country.In many ways Dutt could be called a first responder to the pandemic. Ever since March last year, following Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s sudden all-India lockdown, which had rendered millions of migrant workers jobless, homeless and walking, often with their children, aged parents and belongings on their shoulders, back to their villages, Dutt had walked shoulder to shoulder with them, bringing their unimaginable anguish and pain to the drawing rooms of the world. The journey, which had begun in Gurugram, Delhi on March 27, had seen Dutt travel by road through Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Punjab, Gujarat, Maharashtra, Telangana, Karnataka and Ladakh among other states. Unlike big traditional news media outlets, Dutt had gone where none would or could, affording her viewers direct access to the heart of the crisis, not its numbers and statistics, but real people, penniless and distraught caught in the vice-like grip of a human tragedy.For instance, it was Dutt in Mumbai, during the early days of the lockdown who had chanced upon an old woman named Lilavati, sobbing and alone outside a railway station. Hers was not a catastrophe directly related to Covid, but a part of its collateral damage. Beaten and abandoned by her children, she’d arrived at the station that day, clutching half a packet of biscuits, in the hope of catching a train out of the city. The ominous silence of the platform and lifeless trains were reminder of the individual, particular anguish behind every statistic. Dutt, for once at a loss for words, had simply wrapped her arms around the weeping woman, wiped away her tears and ensured that she was put on the first available train and securely received.It had also been Dutt’s relentless reporting from the ground which had galvanised a range of individuals to launch initiatives for rescue and relief. Whereas traditional media outlets concentrated on in-studio talking head debates, Dutt, with her one-man rag tag army, was bringing home the crisis one step, one face, one tragedy at a time. New York-based chef Vikas Khanna recalls how it was Dutt’s reporting from a petrol station deep in the hinterland, which had given him the idea to launch his philanthropic mission Feed India and use gas stations as distribution centres. To date, it has served over 54 million meals to the hungry.“My life from March to November 2020 has been a chronicle of graveyards, cremation grounds, hospitals, death, tragedy and loss. I continue to experience the opposite of a lockdown, having been out there and on the road for most of this year,” she said about that period of her life when she had thrown caution to the wind and followed the story to the heart of its sorrow.But it was in the pandemic’s deadly second wave that Dutt has really come into her own. Sensing the oncoming tidal wave, with her reporter’s instinct and almost to the exact day of the launch of her previous year’s OnTheRoad reporting, she returned to the road on March 24 this year, determined to spend the coming months as a traveling itinerant reporter once again.This time, with hospitals morgues and crematoriums overflowing, there had been an ominous urgency and desperation to her coverage. It had been only a few days later while in Mumbai that she’d received the news of her father testing positive for Covid-19 in Delhi. “Keep him in your prayers,” she had posted, from her makeshift studio on a pavement outside a cremation in Ghatkopar, where a weeping man had said to her: “First, there was no space at the hospital, now there’s no space at the shamshan.”“I (will) learn or try to learn to walk that tightrope between being a distraught daughter and a tough, clear-headed, calm professional,” she’d written, as she doggedly continued her relentless reportage.But ultimately the distraught daughter had to return home. Her father’s condition had deteriorated rapidly, and against his wishes, he was advised hospital treatment. Dutt had promised to bring him home in two days. But it was a promise she could not keep. “My father Speedy, kind, gentle, compassionate, lost his battle to Covid this morning.” She wrote on April 27. His last words to her had been: “I’m choking, treat me.”The fact that Dutt had now become part of the story that she’d been reporting for the past year, did not escape her. Putting aside her personal anguish she spoke to the world’s media, telling them how despite her bereavement and illness, it was her duty to soldier on. “All I can do now by way of tribute is to redouble my commitment to giving voice to those who don’t have one. It might be the only correct way to mourn my father.”But such is the climate of hate and polarisation in the country that even in her moment of profound suffering, Dutt’s detractors did not spare her. Her reportage from crematoriums and morgues earned her the sobriquet “vulture” from those who had long hated the guts of this independent, outspoken woman; and her personal tragedy was dismissed by them as “a PR stunt”.“But Barkha’s a karma yogi,” says one among her many admirers, Delhi-based veteran foreign correspondent Padma Rao, who as a cub reporter had hero-worshipped Dutt’s iconic firebrand journalist mother the late Prabha Dutt, a role model for a generation of women. “Poisonous, jealous people can go fly a kite, Barkha will never be stopped. She’s Prabha’s daughter, after all,” she said.And Rao is right. Because not even a fortnight after losing her father, Prabha and SPEEDY’s daughter, untethered and free, once again glides across the Indian landscape, gathering momentum and strength.After all, not for nothing had her parents named her “Cloudburst”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/malavikas-mumbaistan-daughter-courage-101620999540054.html
14-05-2021||Bangalore||Covishield second dose only after completing 12 weeks from first dose: Karnataka government||The Karnataka state government on Friday asked the beneficiaries in the state, who have received the first dose of the Covishield vaccine, to get the second dose only after completing 12 weeks from the date of inoculation of the first dose. The state government’s orders came after the Union government on Thursday extended the interval between the two doses from 12 to 16 weeks for the Covishield shot.In a tweet, the Karnataka state health department said, “For the information of [the] Public - The earlier interval of 6 to 8 weeks of time for COVISHIELD vaccination between 2 doses is revised to 12 to 16 weeks.”Citizens are requested not to come to Vaccination centers if they have not completed 12 weeks after the first dose of Covishield vaccine. This revised time interval between 2 doses is applicable only to COVISHIELD and not to COVAXIN vaccine.It further added “Citizens are requested not to come to Vaccination centers if they have not completed 12 weeks after the first dose of Covishield vaccine. This revised time interval between 2 doses is applicable only to COVISHIELD and not to COVAXIN vaccine,” in a subsequent tweet.Earlier on Thursday, the Union ministry of health and family welfare extended the interval between the first and second shot of the Covishield vaccine, manufactured by Pune-based Serum Institute of India, to 12 to 16 weeks. The extension was made based on the recommendation of the Covid working group, consisting of medical experts.“Based on the available real-life evidence, particularly from the UK, the COVID-19 Working Group agreed for increasing the dosing interval to 12-16 weeks between two doses of COVISHIELD vaccine. No change in interval of COVAXIN vaccine doses was recommended,” the ministry said in a press release.Also read | No vaccination for 18-44 age group in Karnataka from FridayThe ministry highlighted that the recommendations by the expert group were also accepted by the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19, headed by Niti Aayog member Dr V K Paul, during the group’s meeting on May 12.Initially the two shots were prescribed to be taken with an interval of four to six weeks between the first and second doses. However, on March 22, the Centre had expanded the interval to four to eight weeks, noting that the efficiency of the vaccine is increased if administered with six to eight weeks of interval between the two shots. This has now been further extended to 12 to 16 weeks.Meanwhile, data from the Union health ministry showed that 10,994,304 doses of the Covid-19 vaccine, comprising 8,644,671 first doses and 2,349,633 second doses, have been administered in Karnataka as of 7am on the day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/covishield-second-dose-only-after-completing-12-weeks-from-first-dose-karnataka-government-101620997328700.html
14-05-2021||Kolkata||Centre dilly-dallied over PM-KISAN amount transfer to Bengal farmers: Mamata Banerjee||As farmers in West Bengal received the first instalment of funds under the PM-KISAN scheme on Friday, Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee hit out at the Centre, accusing it of dilly-dallying over the transfer of funds to beneficiaries in the state.In an open letter to farmers, Banerjee also said the decision to extend the benefits of the scheme to eligible farmers in Bengal was a result of her governments continuous fight."In 2018, the West Bengal government had started the Krishak Bandhu scheme which went on to become a model for the entire country."After this in 2019, the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi was launched. Comparatively, the state-run programme is better because it offers more benefits to farmers... we are planning to add more to our scheme in the near future," she said.Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday released the eighth instalment of over ₹20,000 crore to more than 9.5 crore farmer beneficiaries under the scheme via video- conferencing.About 7.03 lakh farmers of the state received the first instalment of ₹2,000 in their bank accounts, Modi said.Meanwhile, the West Bengal Home Department later said the state was not invited to be a part of the PM's event."It is clarified that West Bengal did not receive any invitation for the PM Kisan fund release programme today," the department tweeted."Due to demand and actions of CM and GOWB, 7 lakh farmers of West Bengal got their due entitlement, the first instalment of Kisan Samman Nidhi today by direct transfer as per data submitted by State. State will fight for its farmers," it added.A source in the department claimed that the Centre not sending invites for such events has become common practice. "The Bengal government considers today's snub as an insult as there were representatives of other states," he said.Under the programme launched in 2019, the central government is providing ₹6,000 in three equal installments to 14 crore farmers annually. The amount is transferred into the bank accounts of the beneficiaries through the direct benefit transfer (DBT) mode.Banerjee had on May 6 written to Modi, urging him to call upon the Union agriculture ministry to release the funds to farmers of the state."You all were supposed to get ₹18,000, but have received a very small amount. Even this sum would not have been transferred had we not fought for it. We will continue this fight till you get the entire allocation," the CM asserted.The scheme was not implemented till now in West Bengal as the state government and the Centre were at loggerheads over various issues, including verified data of farmers.The state's Krishak Bandhu scheme provides farmers with one or more acres of landholding an annual amount of ₹5,000 (minimum ₹2,000 per annum assistance on pro-rata basis).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/centre-dilly-dallied-over-pm-kisan-amount-transfer-to-bengal-farmers-mamata-banerjee-101620995915960.html
14-05-2021||Lucknow||Gangster shoots 2 including Mukhtar Ansari aide in UP jail, is killed by cops||A prisoner in Uttar Pradesh’s Chitrakoot jail shot dead two gangsters and held five hostage before he was killed by a police team on Friday morning, people familiar with the matter said. It is not clear how the prisoner, Anshul Dixit, who shot dead the two gangsters managed to smuggle the 9mm pistol into the prison.Chief minister Yogi Adityanath has ordered director general of UP prisons Anand Kumar to send the first report on the incident within six hours and hold a detailed probe into the incident along with the Chitrakoot divisional commissioner DK Singh and inspector general (IG) Chitrakoot K Satya Narain.Police identified the two killed by Anshul Dixit in the shooting as Mukeem alias Kala, a gangster facing 61 criminal cases including the murder of three police personnel, and Merajudden, a close aide of gangster-politician Mukhtar Ansari. The powerful Bahujan Samaj Party legislator was recently brought back to UP from Punjab after the Yogi Adityanath government approached the Supreme Court. Ansari is being held in a jail in the adjoining district of Banda.In his first comments, Anand Kumar conceded there had been lapses by prison officials and vowed to take strict action against the officials concerned. By evening, news came that jail superintendent SP Tripathi and jailer Mahendra Pal have been suspended for lapses in jail security. A departmental inquiry has also been ordered.Santosh Verma, the spokesman of UP prison at Lucknow, said the incident took place shortly after 10am when prisoners came out of their barracks. Dixit suddenly opened fire and killed the two prisoners and held five other prisoners hostage, threatening to kill them.He said jail officials sought help from the police to control the situation. The police team that arrived gunned down Anshul Dixit to rescue the hostages. It has been deployed in the prison for some time to ensure there is no more trouble. The pistol that Dixit used has also been seized by the police.Verma said the accused, Anshul Dixit was transferred from Sultanpur jail to Chitrakoot jail in December 2019. Mukeem alias Kala was shifted to Chitrakoot from Saharanpur jail in March this year; Mukhtar Ansari’s aide Merajudeen was transferred from Varanasi jail barely a week ago.A senior police officer said Anshul Dixit faces over 15 cases including the murder of former Lucknow University Student Union general secretary Vinod Tripathi in 2007.One of the two men who he killed had longer rap sheets. Mukeem alias Kala, who was mostly active in western UP, has over 61 criminal cases registered against him including the murder of three policemen over the last decade. Kala operated extortion rackets in Kairana, Shamli and Muzaffarnagar districts where he mostly targeted businessmen and traders. He is blamed for many businessmen shifting out of this region. Merajuddin has three cases but his claim to notoriety was his proximity to Mukhtar Ansari, the officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-jail-inmate-shot-dead-2-gangsters-held-5-more-hostage-before-cops-kill-him-101620995281500.html
14-05-2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren launches free vaccination drive for people aged 18-44 yrs||Jharkhand Chief Minister Hemant Soren on Friday launched a free vaccination drive for people in the age group of 18 to 44 years in the state and appealed to citizens to get inoculated to help the government contain the spread of Covid-19.Over 1.57 crore people in the state are in the 18-44 years age bracket.The state government could not roll out the inoculation drive for these people from May 1 as it was facing a shortage of vaccines."After a long wait, we are launching the vaccination drive for people in the 18-44 years age group. We are giving them vaccines for free. I appeal to the citizens to come forward and take vaccine jabs to protect themselves and their families," Soren said.He also urged people to join the vaccination drive and help the government break the chain of coronavirus infection in the state.The government commenced the inoculation drive with a stock of 6.48 lakh vaccine doses, an official said."Around 30,000 people in the age group of 18 to 44 years have already registered their names for vaccination. There is a lot of enthusiasm about the immunisation process among people in cities, while residents in rural areas have a reservation for it."The government is putting every effort to make people aware of the benefits of the vaccines," the official said.Apart from requesting people through various campaigns, the government has been promoting awareness drives in tribal languages.The government has allotted 1.34 lakh doses of 'Covaxin' and 1 lakh vials of 'Covishield' for the state capital Ranchi, which has been witnessing the maximum number of new cases and deaths in the last few weeks, he said.According to the official, the government also allocated 39,910 doses for Dumka, 39,730 for Palamu and 32,340 for Giridih.An order for 50 lakh doses of vaccines has already been placed, he said.At present, the first dose of vaccine has been administered to over 27.76 lakh people, including frontline workers and those above 45 years of age, while over 6.39 lakh citizens received the second shot.Meanwhile, the Covid-19 tally in the state jumped to 3,06,248 with 4,991 fresh cases, while the death toll reached 4,290 as 108 more people succumbed to the disease.Altogether, 75,84,831 samples have been tested in Jharkhand for Covid-19 so far.The chief minister said the state is putting every effort to curb the spread of the coronavirus disease, without impacting the delivery of essential services.The government has extended the lockdown-like restrictions with strict provisions, including seven-day mandatory quarantine for people visiting the state, till May 27.Operations of inter and intra-state buses have been suspended, while private vehicle owners are required to obtain e-passes.The government restricted the maximum number of attendees at weddings to 11 with the provision that marriages can be conducted either at homes or at courts.Organising any ceremony during weddings has also been prohibited in the state.The state has already prohibited all indoor and outdoor gatherings of more than five persons.Education institutes and coaching centres have been remained shut and all examinations postponed. Cinema halls, multiplexes, stadiums, gymnasiums, swimming pools and parks, among others, have also been closed in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/jharkhand-chief-minister-hemant-soren-launches-free-vaccination-drive-for-people-aged-18-44-yrs-101620992201771.html
14-05-2021||Other||Bihar police arrest 5 more; say LJP leader’s murder solved||Police claim to have solved Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) leader Anil Oraon’s kidnap-murder case in Bihar’s Purnia with the arrest of five, including the prime accused, on Thursday. Four persons, including a woman, were arrested earlier in this case.Confirming the arrest of prime accused Ankit Yadav, sub divisional police officer (SDPO) Anand Kumar Pandey said five persons involved in the crime were arrested from Kasba area. “They were trying to escape to Nepal in a four-wheeler when arrested,” he added.The men arrested are: Ankit Yadav, Satish Kumar, Vikash Kumar, Mukesh Kumar, and Vishal Kumar.” Also Read | LJP leader’s body found three days after abductionTwo pistols, 12 live cartridges, five mobile phones were seized from the men apart from their four-wheeler. “Altogether nine persons have been arrested in this case,” police said.“Yadav has confessed to the crime and we may take him on remand for further interrogation,” said police.LJP leader Oraon went missing on April 30, later his body was recovered 10 km from his residence in Purnia on May 2 after his family paid a ransom of ₹10 lakh as demanded by the abductors in exchange for his release.The killing triggered violence in the city with protesters not only vandalising public property but also damaging police vehicles.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bihar-police-arrest-5-more-say-ljp-leader-s-murder-solved-101620991499066.html
14-05-2021||Other||HC stays Telangana govt order restricting Covid ambulances from other states||The Telangana high court on Friday stayed a circular issued by the state government restricting the entry of ambulances and other vehicles from other states carrying Covid-19 patients into Telangana. A division bench headed by chief justice Hima Kohli issued interim orders to this effect, after hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) petition filed by retired Indian Revenue Service officer Garimella Venkat Krishna Rao. The bench asked the governments of Telangana and Andhra Pradesh and the Centre to file their counter-affidavits within two weeks and posted the case to June 17. While announcing the 10-day lockdown in Telangana beginning Wednesday, the Telangana government issued a circular stating that patients from other states would be allowed into Telangana, only if they have prior tie-up with the hospitals in Telangana for the purpose of Covid-19 admission. Chief secretary Somesh Kumar pointed out in the order that Covid-19 patients from neighbouring states were coming in ambulances and personal vehicles without any prior arrangement with any of the hospitals. “As a result, patients not only lose valuable time moving from one hospital to other, but also potentially spread the infection of different strains,” the order said. It said the hospitals in Telangana should apply in the prescribed format to control room set up for this purpose, furnishing basic patient details. Only then would the control room authorise patients to travel, said the order.Finding fault with the Telangana government order, the high court said patients could seek the assistance of the control room in finding the right hospitals, not for permission. Also Read | EC defers MLC polls in Andhra, Telangana due to second wave of CovidAndhra Pradesh state government advisor Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy wondered why the Telangana government was objecting to the entry of Andhra patients, when there were no such restrictions in going to Chennai and Bengaluru for better treatment. In the morning, several ambulances carrying Covid-19 patients from different parts of Andhra Pradesh into Telangana for better treatment in Hyderabad were turned away by the Telangana police at the inter-state borders, stating that they had no permission to enter the state. At least 40 ambulances were denied permission to enter the Telangana at Pullur check-post on the borders of Kurnool of Andhra and Jogulamba Gadwal district of Telangana on Hyderabad-Bengaluru national highway. “We have strict instructions from the higher-ups not to allow any vehicles that do not have e-pass from the Telangana government,” a senior police official of Jogulamba Gadwal district said on condition of anonymity. Kurnool MLA Abdul Hafeez Khan, who came to know about ambulances stranded at the Telangana border, rushed to the checkpost and eventually made alternate arrangements for some of the seriously ill in Kurnool government hospitals. Similar incidents were witnessed at Ramapuram check-post in Telangana’s Suryapet district bordering Krishna district of Andhra Pradesh on the Vijayawada national highway. Telangana state medical and health director G Srinivasa Rao said no patient from other states with a prior understanding with a hospital in Hyderabad and an e-pass from the police was denied entry into Telangana. “Our intention is not to create troubles for any patient from any state. In fact, 45% of the hospital beds in Hyderabad are occupied by patients from other states. Already 80% of the ICU and oxygen beds in the state are fully occupied,” he said. He said the second wave of Coronavirus pandemic had put tremendous pressure on the hospitals in Hyderabad in providing oxygen, medicines and other facilities. “We have the responsibility to cater to the needs of the patients from Telangana as well,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sans-permit-ambulances-ferrying-covid-patients-stopped-at-telangana-border-101620990299051.html
14-05-2021||Chandigarh||Penpa Tsering is president-elect of Tibetan government-in-exile||Penpa Tsering, 53, has been elected sikyong or president of the Dharamshala-based Tibetan government-in-exile, officially called the Central Tibetan Administration (CTA). Tibetan chief election commissioner Wangdu Tsering on Friday declared Penpa Tsering, who is a former speaker of Tibet’s parliament-in-exile, as the winner of the 2021 general election for sikyong (political leader) after he got 34,324 votes in the final round of election that was held on April 11. Also read: Navy to pick 2,000 tonnes of oxygen from UAE, Kuwait and Qatar to battle CovidPenpa Tsering defeated Aukatsang Kelsang Dorjee by 5,417 votes. Dorjee, a former representative of Tibetan spiritual leader the Dalai Lama, polled 28,907 votes. The first round of the election was held on January 3. Tsering had led the first round by polling 24,488 votes. Dorjee had polled 14,544 votes. There were eight candidates in the fray for the post of sikyong in the first round of which Tsering and Dorjee made it to the second round. Born in the Bylakuppe Refugee Camp in Karnataka in 1967, Tsering attended the Central School for Tibetans at Bylakuppe, topping the merit list in Class 12. He did his graduation from Madras Christian College, Chennai, where he majored in economics. Tsering served as the general secretary for the Tibetan Freedom Movement and the Nigerian-Tibet Friendship Association during his college days and later as executive director at the Tibetan Parliamentary and Research Centre in Delhi from 2001-08. He was elected to the 12th and 13th Tibetan parliament-in-exile and served two terms as speaker from 2008-16. Tsering contested the 2016 sikyong election but lost to the outgoing Lobsang Sangay. He was appointed to the North America Representative of the Dalai Lama in 2016 but removed a year later on charges of dereliction of duty after he levelled allegations of corruption against Sangay. He faced an inquiry, and the matter also reached the Tibetan Supreme Justice Commission. Tsering won the case. The chief election commissioner also declared the results for 45 seats of the members in the 17th parliament-in-exile.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/penpa-tsering-is-president-elect-of-tibetan-governmentinexile-101620989278873.html
14-05-2021||Pune||Step up vaccination to protect children in possible third Covid wave, say experts||As vaccination has been stopped for the 18-44 years age group from Thursday in Pune city, medical experts note that if elders do not follow Covid-appropriate behaviour, children may be at more risk. With predictions of the third wave of Covid being more dangerous to children, doctors have suggested that parents and grandparents should get vaccinated as soon as possible to keep the children safe.Dr Dnyaneshwar Mote, a member of the Pune city Covid task force for social action, said that the age group of 18 to 44 years should be a priority to vaccinate.“The beneficiaries in this age group usually go outside for work and other essential things, so the chances of them getting infected is more. Beneficiaries in this age group are also working professionals. Many families depend on them financially. In such cases, they should be the priority,” said Dr Mote.Dr Maheshkumar Lakhe, consultant, Internal Medicine and Infectious Disease, Columbia Asia Hospital, Pune, said that ceasing the vaccination of young people between 18 and 44 years of age, people who are mobile, largely asymptomatic in the second wave, and more likely carriers and transmitters of the virus, can pose a threat of infection to both elderly and children.“Considering that most of the elderly people have received both the doses of their vaccines as their inoculation started early and that no vaccine in India is approved for children yet, makes the latter more vulnerable to contracting the infection from their parents,” he said.“People aged less than 45 years can have children as young as a newborn or a toddler who are far less immune to a novel virus than a teenager or an adult. It is important to step up universal adult vaccination against Covid-19 urgently as global experience indicates a possible third wave that has affected children more, especially in the European countries, vaccinating adult people as much as possible is the best way to safeguard our children from the virus until we have vaccines suitable for them,” said Dr Lakhe.Dr Aarti Kinikar, head of the paediatric department of the Sassoon General Hospital said that parents and grandparents should follow strict Covid appropriate behaviour.“Due to shortage of vaccines, there is a delay in inoculating beneficiaries between 18 to 44 years of age. However, this should not deter beneficiaries who are 45 years and more from getting their jab. Also, Covid appropriate behaviour is a must for all to keep children safe,” said Kinikar.‘Increase gap between two doses of Covishield’On Thursday, the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (NTAGI), a central government panel, suggested increasing the gap between two doses of Covishield. As per the recommendations by the panel, the second dose of Covishield should be taken between 12 to 16 weeks. Earlier, this gap was four to eight weeks. The panel, however, did not suggest any change of time for the second dose of Covaxin.The NTAGI recommendations will be sent to the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/step-up-vaccination-to-protect-children-in-possible-third-covid-wave-say-experts-101620989220486.html
14-05-2021||Patna||Three booked in Patna for selling oxygen cylinder at a premium||The Economic Offence Wing (EOW) of Bihar Police has booked three people, including a director of a private nursing home, for selling oxygen cylinders at a premium. There has been a huge demand for medical oxygen amid a spike in Covid-19 cases across the country.Police also seized an auto-rickshaw-cum-luggage carrier carrying seven jumbo cylinders, two small-filled cylinders, many regulators and a motorcycle from the spot. Police got a tip-off about a private hospital selling each jumbo cylinder (50 litres) for ₹50,000. They arrested Mohammad Abdul Wafa, a residence of Sakur Colony in Patna, and also recovered a jumbo cylinder from his residence. Also Read | Jharkhand’s daily Covid deaths drop below 100 for 2nd time in May; toll at 4,182Wafa is the director of Unique Hospital, and is the son of Mohammad Abdullah, the district board member from Katra, Muzaffarpur. He was wanted in a case lodged with Hathauri police station in Muzaffarpur.Wafa’s arrest led to his two accomplices: Dhupendra Kumar Ram of rural Patna, and Raju Kumar Das of Kishanganj. Elsewhere, the EOW team along with Delhi Police arrested two persons -- Kamta Singh and Kamlesh Paswan --from rural Patna for cyber fraud in the name of oxygen cylinder. Till date, the EOW has registered six FIRs in Patna and arrested 27 persons, including two directors of separate private hospitals, over Covid-related cheating. In all, the wing has recovered 67 jumbo cylinders, fifty regulators, and eight Remdesivir injections from them.The Bihar police headquarters claimed that they raided over 300 places across the state, lodged 14 FIRs, arrested 30 persons and recovered around 400 oxygen cylinders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/three-booked-in-patna-for-selling-oxygen-cylinder-at-a-premium-101620989038930.html
14-05-2021||Other||Global Village Idiot: What world needs right now is leaders who put people first||He’s my little cousin brother. We speak maybe once a year. Sometimes, once in two years. A medical transcriptionist by profession, Shubhankar Banerjee has a 69-year-old mother, a 30-something wife and a 13-year-old son. He has lost colleagues, friends and acquaintances to Covid-19, but doesn’t think twice when someone calls asking for assistance. Night or day, he responds to every call.Shubhankar lives in a quaint society called Nivedita Enclave in Paschim Vihar, New Delhi. There are 195 flats in that society, and everyone knows everybody else. Covid-19 has hit the society hard. Between April 25 and May 6, the society lost one person every day to the pandemic. They are families that have grown together for three generations in the past four decades - parents, grandparents, uncles, aunts, children, grandparents. Now, many of the younger generation are working in other cities or in foreign countries. Shubhankar is one of the younger generation who has stayed back in Nivedita. With many in the society quarantined, elders reach out to Shubhankar and others of the younger generation for help. Some days they run around to get someone to a hospital, other days for medicine, yet other days for a slot at the crematorium.I called him last week to see how he’s doing, and ended up asking why he takes the risk. “Can’t think so much when someone calls in an emergency. If a life can be saved or if suffering can be eased, that’s the only thought. The situation has improved this week, in the sense that it has climbed back from worst to bad,” he said.“Right now, there isn’t much we can do if one falls ill. You can’t go to a hospital because there’s no place there. If you do get a bed in a hospital, there isn’t much they can do except put you on oxygen. Doctors and healthcare staff are under extreme pressure. But, trying and getting to a hospital makes the family feel less helpless - you feel that at least I was able to get my patient to a hospital,” he says in acceptance of the current situation in Delhi.Back home in Pune, April was somewhat similar for Sunil Gate. For those who know Sunil Gate, he’s a go-to person when you are in need. A corporate communication consultant with two decades of experience in different industries, Gate is a connector and a helpful person at heart. Even in an impossible situation, he will usually tell you, “Ruk, mai kuch karta hoon.” Throughout the past few months, Gate has been talking to hospitals, civic officials, business people, media and people in general to try and do his bit, always in the background. April was particularly taxing, with hourly requests for help with hospital admissions, information on how to get oxygen, medicines… May has so far been all about how to get vaccine shots. I have called him for Remdesvir injections and ICU with ventilator, for family and friends. Also in Pune, almost at the outskirts really, there’s a housing society in Kalewadi Phata, called Rhythm that is doing quite a creditable job of keeping its diverse range of cosmopolitan members informed and advised about matters related to Covid-19. There is a competent and well-informed committee led by chairperson Dr Ritu Awasthi, running the society with people from varied backgrounds bringing their expertise to the table. The society works well as a cohesive unit, marshalling resources and connections and as a result, there are sanitisation and fumigation drives regularly. There is a daily flow of information and interaction on the WhatsApp group. The society uses Zoom effectively. For the past few weeks, everyone is busy sharing information and helping each other get vaccination slots. It’s a delight to log into the group and see the level of engagement and ownership from the committee members and residents alike. Many agree that a good bit of the credit for the efficient dissemination of useful information, marshalling of resources, and effective execution of protocols lies with the society’s young secretary, Abhijit Garad. A software manager at an IT firm, Abhijit is patient with opinions, focused on providing data, endeavouring to facilitate plurality of opinions, while providing actionable information. And he has a sense of humour Punekars would be proud of. Earlier this week, a society member asked him if one was allowed to cross district borders. Abhijit replied: “You can get e-pass and travel. You can mention the reason that it has been a year without Kolhapur’s tambada and pandhara rassa, so application should be considered to travel to Kolhapur. Attach a blood report showing less tambada index.”Most of us know at least a few people like Shubhankar, Sunil, and Abhijit. I can think of many others who are quietly doing what needs to be done in cities and towns across the globe. They get on with what needs to be done and keep their sense of humour, balance and sanity intact. They get the job done and are always aware that there’s more to be done. They don’t do it for the accolade or the glory, and are always patient with the inevitable scepticism. They are content to be in the background and have the courage to be centre-stage when things are difficult. They are constantly evaluating matters on merit in the context of the greater good, but always exercising the wisdom of discretion to address individual matters that can redefine what the greater good is.What the world needs right now are leaders like them; leaders who put people first.Mukherjee, author, learning-tech designer and management consultant, is founder of Mountain Walker and chief strategy advisor, Peak Pacific. He can be reached @thebengali@icloud.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/global-village-idiot-what-world-needs-right-now-is-leaders-who-put-people-first-101620988919263.html
14-05-2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand health minister’s official booked for forcible vaccination of 35 people||A First Information Report (FIR) has been lodged against the Jamshedpur office in-charge of Jharkhand health and disaster management minister Banna Gupta on charges of forcing a Covid vaccination team to inoculate 35 people below the age of 45 years on May 11, three days before the drive for all adults began in the state on Friday.“An FIR has been lodged against Sanjay Tiwari and 35 other named accused for forcing the vaccination team to give them Covid-19 vaccine doses at Kadma New Farm Area communiy hall on May 11 though all of them were allegedly below 45, thus violating state government as well as Central Government guideline and rules,” Manoj Thakur, Kadma police station (PS) officer-in-charge (OC), said on Friday.The FIR was filed Thursday late evening on the basis of a complaint filed by incident commander-cum-executive magistrate Chandradeo Prasad. “FIR has been also filed for threatening the executive magistrate and three members of the vaccination team under sections 188, 504 and 506 of the IPC, 51 Act and 60, 61 Epidemic Act,” added Thakur.Also Read | Jharkhand’s daily Covid deaths drop below 100 for 2nd time in May; toll at 4,182Prasad confirmed filing the complaint. “I filed the FIRs after finding written complaint filed by three women members of the vaccination team was true,” he said. Prasad filed another complaint late last evening against Tiwari and 25-30 others, accusing them of manhandling, misbehaving, abusing and threatening him. “Sanjay Tiwari and 25-30 other persons intimidated me again at Kadma New Farm Area vaccination centre yesterday when I reached there around 12.15 pm,” he said.Tiwari, however, dismissed the allegations against him by terming them concocted and baseless. “Who am I to give vaccination to anyone? Moreover, none from 18-44 year age group can be given vaccine without slot booking,” he said. He also denied intimidating the executive magistrate and said it was general public which created ruckus as computer operators arrived late at the centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/jharkhand-health-minister-s-official-booked-for-forcible-vaccination-of-35-people-101620988558764.html
14-05-2021||Delhi||City folks join hands to feed strays amid Covid lockdown||It’s not only strangers on the Internet lending a helping hand and delivering meals to Covid-hit families but a few good Samaritans in the city are also ensuring stray dogs remain well-fed during the lockdown. With the thought that being compassionate to animals is just as important to being kind to their own pets, city folks are going the extra mile — juggling between work schedules and volunteer work during Covid-19 times to feed and take care of the strays.“Ever since we started the service of providing no-cost meals to Covid-19 patients, my inbox has been full of food requests for strays, especially around Greater Kailash 1, CR Park and Safdarjung Enclave. These areas are near hospitals and people are afraid to step out and feed,” says Majid Khan, a resident of Zakir Nagar. Apart from the localities close to hospital, strays near eateries, offices and shopping complexes are most affected as well. A pet parent to two dogs, and a volunteer Parul Taneja from Faridabad says, “The restaurants and markets were shut suddenly, the strays that used to rely on leftover or waste are now either starving or scavenging for food.”Feeders need to be careful about the human-animal conflict and create a safe environment not only for the strays but also folks living nearby. Taneja adds, “Some people who are new to feeding place the food bowls anywhere but it’s advisable to feed them in the particular spots as also recommended recently by Delhi High Court.” Another animal lover, Anuradha Dogra from Animal Hospital and Shelter, NOIDA also highlights that the strays can be territorial of their space. She says, “There can be three packs at one place. Feed them in their designated territory, else it will end up in a clash.”City individuals were further motivated to step up their initiatives with the news of Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik sanctioning ₹60lakh to feed stray animals during the lockdown, a police officer, Chiranjeev Sinha, being conferred the People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) India Award for feeding stray dogs, monkeys and cows during the lockdown, and a video of Subramaniyan Potty S, another police officer, feeding street dogs even during a busy day at work.Dr Vivek Arora, a veterinary surgeon, says one needs to consider the weather before preparing meals for the strays. He suggest, “The next few months are going to be hot, and food should not go stale before the animals eat it. Paneer and curd are better substitute as they take longer to go bad. But if larger groups are to be fed or the strays are far away from the residential complex – buy animal food in bulk from manufacturers as they also have a longer shelf life.” He also advises feeding cucumbers, carrots and frozen watermelon slices that high in water content to bear the scorching heat. Dr Arora also recommends an inexpensive way to help dogs cool down during summer months. He says, “There can be possibilities of heat stroke and non-availability of water, so one can put cloth or jute bags sprinkled with water to provide some comfort.”Dogra also advises placing earthen bowls filled with water and mentions that feeding time should be either early morning or during sunset as the animals stay hidden or burrowed when the temperature peaks.Experts also suggest volunteers to fix a schedule to be able to feed maximum number of dogs and share the responsibility so that not one individual needs to step out during lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/city-folks-join-hands-to-feed-strays-amid-covid-lockdown-101620987243231.html
14-05-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka Minister bats for continuing lockdown in state to control Covid spike||As Karnataka continues to battle the second wave of Covid-19, Revenue Minister R Ashoka on Friday batted for the extension of the statewide lockdown, aimed at controlling the spread of the virus.He said, the government headed by Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa will take a final call, as the current lockdown nears its end.The state is currently under complete lockdown till May 24."As a citizen of Bengaluru my personal opinion is that it is good to continue the lockdown for a few more days. (Number of cases in the city) has come to 15,000 from 22,000 per day, it is about 7,000 cases less now, it is because of semi- lockdown and complete lockdown," Ashoka, who is also the Vice-Chairman of Karnataka State Disaster Management Authority said.Speaking to reporters here, he pointed to long lockdowns implemented in states like Maharashtra and Delhi among others which witnessed the second wave ahead of Karnataka, and said they are a model for us as the number of cases have been coming down."Three days ahead of the current lockdown coming to an end, Chief Minister will call a meeting where we will share our opinion, looking at the figures that day in the state and whether the number of cases have come down because of lockdown, we will take a decision. The CM will take a decision," Ashoka said, adding he will be sharing his opinion at the meeting.Amid the rising Covid-19 cases in the state, the Karnataka government that had initially announced 14 days closedown from April 27, it subsequently imposed a complete lockdown from May 10 to May 24, amid continued spike in cases.Stating that no one expected a four-fold increase in the number of cases, Ashoka said, experts had said the second wave will be less compared to first wave, there were media reports too and we too had believed it."It is a lesson for us...the government is addressing the difficult situation. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa and our government are facing the situation with courage and will stand by the people," he said, as he hit out at the opposition for changing their stands on the lockdown.Speaking to reporters in Bagalkote, Deputy Chief Minister Govind Karjol too said that the Chief Minister will take a final decision on continuing the lockdown."The Chief Minister will take a decision after consulting medical experts and doctors in this regard...they will examine the ICMR advice...no decision has been taken yet," he said.Dr.Balram Bhargava, head of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), has said that lockdown restrictions should remain in place for another six to eight weeks, in all districts where the rate of infection is above 10 per cent of those tested, to control the spread.According to reports, 29 out of 31 districts in Karnataka have Covid positivity rate of over 10 per cent.While the overall positivity rate in the state as on Thursday stood at 27.64 per cent, case fatality rate (CFR) was at 0.97 per cent.Karnataka on Thursday reported 35,297 new cases of Covid-19, and 344 related fatalities, taking the total number of infections to 20,88,488 and the death toll to 20,712.Total number of active cases stood at 5,93,078.Out of the 35,297 fresh cases reported, 15,191 were from Bengaluru Urban alone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-minister-bats-for-continuing-lockdown-in-state-to-control-covid-spike-101620986464563.html
14-05-2021||Delhi||Hoarding of oxygen concentrators case: Delhi HC declines interim relief to Khan Market restaurateur Navneet Kalra||The Delhi high court on Friday refused to provide interim protection from arrest to Navneet Kalra, the owner of Khan Chacha restaurant in Delhi, in the case regarding the alleged black marketing of oxygen concentrators. The single-judge bench of Justice Subramonium Prasad also posted the matter for further hearing on Tuesday (May 18) after Additional Solicitor General (ASG) SV Raju appearing for the Delhi police sought time to file reply and argue in the case.“I am persuaded by the reasons given by the trial court which is a valid ground for me not to grant any interim protection now,” Justice Subramonium Prasad said. Previously on Thursday, restaurateur Navneet Kalra moved the Delhi HC for an anticipatory bail in the case after a trial court dismissed it earlier on the same day.ASG Raju opposed any interim relief to Kalra at this stage in the case and said that this is not a case where such protection could be given. He also sought for more time till Tuesday from the court.Also read | Oxygen concentrator case: Delhi court rejects bail plea of Navneet KalraSenior advocates Abhishek Manu Singhvi and Vikas Pahwa, appearing for Kalra, said that the case is a harassment and also noted that the punishment can’t be given as the fixation of price has not been done for oxygen concentrators as essential commodities.Singhvi also said that the police are visiting relatives of Kalra regarding the case. “They are visiting the house of the brother-in -law of the accused. His father in law is separately being paid courtesy calls. The job of the police, influenced by the press, is not this. Today morning SI goes there, Mr. Raju is now asking for time,” Singhvi said.Delhi police on May 7 (Friday) raided two restaurants in the city’s Khan Market area -- Khan Chacha and Town Hall restaurants -- from where 105 oxygen concentrator devices were recovered. Previously, 419 oxygen concentrators were also found at Nege & Ju restaurant in Lodhi Colony and a godown in Chattarpur that belonged to a private company named Matrix Cellular. Navneet Kalra owns the three restaurants that were raided.Demand for oxygen concentrators swelled during the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic in the national capital as many hospitals ran out of medical oxygen. It was also a crucial part of the medical supplies and aids provided by many foreign countries to help India’s efforts against the pandemic.Kalra has been on the run since the equipment were seized from his restaurants, according to the police. Also, investigators have said that they possess evidence to prove that oxygen concentrators, which were bought for ₹14,000 to ₹15,000, were being sold for prices upwards of ₹75,000.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/hoarding-of-oxygen-concentrators-case-delhi-hc-declines-interim-relief-to-khan-market-restaurateur-navneet-kalra-101620984800124.html
14-05-2021||Chandigarh||Kangra man carries Covid+ mother’s body on shoulders for cremation||A resident of Kangra district in Himachal Pradesh was forced to carry the body of his mother, who died of Covid-19, for cremation on his shoulders, after villagers and relatives refused help fearing they might contract the virus. The incident took place at Bhangwar village near Ranital town, 35km from Dharamshala, on Thursday after the photo of Vir Singh, wearing a PPE kit and carrying the body on his shoulder, was widely shared on social media. Also read: Kangra schools told to hold online classes for only two hours a dayThe woman was a former up pradhan (deputy head) of the Bhangwar panchayat. She tested positive earlier this week and was in home isolation. The son carried his mother’s body on his shoulders, while his wife followed him with the cremation material in one hand and held on to their toddler with the other hand as nobody came to help them. When contacted, Bhangwar panchayat pradhan Suram Singh said he was suffering from fever and couldn’t go to Vir Singh’s house. “But I had talked to him to convey that the administration was sending PPE kits for the cremation. However, Vir Singh. refused saying his relatives were bringing the kits. The ASHA worker had also contacted the family,” Suram Singh said. The panchayat pradhan said he contacted tractor-trailer drivers to take the body for cremation, but they refused. “Vir Singh didn’t tell me that his relatives and villagers had also refused to help,” the village head said, adding that some villagers had helped the family by cutting wood for the cremation. Onus also on society: Deputy commissionerDeputy commissioner Rakesh Kumar Prajapati said Vir Singh had taken the body for cremation before administrative help could reach him. “However, here the onus also lies on society. Why did the villagers and relatives, who brought the PPE kits, not help the aggrieved family?” the DC said. “Are we so afraid of the virus? If people don’t help each other in such a crisis, they are already dead,” he said. Prajapati said he has now passed an order that the cremation of people who die of Covid-19, whether in hospital or at home, will be carried out by the administration so that no such incident happens again. He said an administrative officer, either an SDM or a tehsildar or a naib tehsildar, will remain present at the cremation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/kangra-man-carries-covid-mother-s-body-on-shoulders-for-cremation-101620982678441.html
14-05-2021||Delhi||Free education for kids who lost parents to Covid: Delhi CM||Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday said the Delhi government will provide free education to children who have lost their parents to Covid-19 and financial assistance to all those, especially senior citizens, who have lost the only earning member of their family. Addressing a digital press conference, Kejriwal said after a long time, daily Covid-19 cases have fallen below the 10,000 mark with nearly 8,500 cases being recorded in the past 24 hours and the positivity rate further declining to 12%. He said in the past 10 days, nearly 3,000 Covid-19 beds have become vacant, but ICU beds continue to be nearly full. To provide adequate beds and timely treatment to serious Covid-19 patients, he said, about 1,200 ICU beds are nearly ready -- 1,000 at the two Ramlila grounds and the rest at the Radha Saomi campus. Also Read | Covaxin stock has almost ended, Covishield to last for 3 days in Delhi: Jain“In the past few days, despite all our efforts we could not save many Delhi people. In many families, there have been more than one deaths. I know several children who have lost both their parents. I am there, Delhi government will bear all the expenses of their education and living. There are also several senior citizens who have lost their children who used to earn. Do not worry, your son is still alive. Delhi government will provide financial assistance to all those families who have lost their sole earning member to Covid-19,” Kejriwal said. The chief minister also hinted that the lockdown is likely to be extended by another week yet again. The current lockdown is supposed to end at 5am on Monday. “Even today, 8,500 fresh Covid cases have come. We have to bring this down to 0 and hence, we cannot lower our guard at this moment at any cost. If we become lax, then cases might spike again. So, we have to strictly follow the ongoing lockdown and adhere to all the Covid-19 protocols,” he said.Delhi government said it is also ramping up the number of oxygen beds to prepare for any potential surge in cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/free-education-for-kids-who-lost-parents-to-covid-delhi-cm-101620981418392.html
14-05-2021||Delhi||Covaxin stock has almost ended, Covishield to last for 3 days in Delhi: Health minister Satyendar Jain||Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain on Friday called on the central government to cap the prices of all vaccines in India at ₹150 per dose. He also said that the vaccination drive in government schools for people over 45 years of age would begin soon in the national capital.“Central govt is a partner in Covaxin's manufacturing so they can share the formula with others. Centre should cap prices of all vaccines and it should not be more than ₹150 per dose. We will start vaccination for 45 years and above age group in government schools soon,” news agency ANI quoted Jain as saying.Briefing on the vaccine availability in Delhi, the health minister said that the city currently has stocks enough for two or three days to vaccinate beneficiaries in the 18 to 44 years age group. “Covaxin stock has almost ended. We only have 2-3 days of stock for Covidshield vaccines for 18- 44 years of age group. We can't mix already assigned centres for Covaxin & Covishield vaccines,” ANI quoted Jain as saying.Also read | Delhi registered less than 10k Covid-19 cases in last 24 hours: Arvind KejriwalJain also said that the central government should procure the Covid-19 vaccines through a global tender and mentioned that only three vaccines, namely Covishield, Covaxin and Sputnik V, could be procured using such tenders. Earlier on Thursday too, the minister made similar comments saying “I suggested the Health Ministry if the vaccine has to be purchased from foreign countries, then instead of different states floating different global tenders, the Centre should purchase these vaccines on behalf of the states,” according to a report by ANI.The health minister also said that the national capital is seeing a decline in the number of daily new Covid-19 cases and the positivity rate has fallen by half from its previous highest. “Yesterday [on Thursday] we reported 10,489 positive cases and the positivity rate was 14.24%. The highest positivity rate was 36% in Delhi so now it is less than half of it. We're seeing a decline in trends from April 24,” Jain said.Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal in a press conference on Friday afternoon said that the case positivity rate in Delhi has come down to 12 per cent in the last 24 hours and around 8,500 new infections of the coronavirus disease have been reported in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covaxin-stock-has-almost-ended-covishield-to-last-for-3-days-in-delhi-health-minister-satyendar-jain-101620980631546.html
14-05-2021||Mumbai||What’s the need for Central Vista amid pandemic? asks Sena’s Sanjay Raut||Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Friday criticised the Narendra Modi-government’s plan to build Central Vista in the national Capital, asking what use would changing the map of Delhi be when people are struggling to survive and the dead don’t get last rites with their bodies floating in Ganga. The Sena leader also said the country was running “Ram bharose”, taking potshots at the Centre’s handling of the Covid-19 situation. “The situation in the country is so bad, what will you do by changing the map of Delhi? People in the country are struggling to survive...people are asking what is the need for Central Vista, new parliament [house] or new Prime Minister’s residence?” he asked, even as he pointed out that Chhattisgargh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel has stopped the work on the state’s Vidhan Sabha and diverted the funds for Covid-19 management.Also Watch | Covid: Sanjay Raut urges Centre to not hide crisis; Cong demands parallel govtRaut’s statement comes a day after 12 Opposition leaders, including Sena chief Uddhav Thackeray, TMC chief Mamata Banerjee, Congress president Sonia Gandhi, DMK chief MK Stalin, and NCP president Sharad Pawar, wrote to Prime Minister Modi to stop the work on Central Vista project and divert the fund to fight Covid-19. The Sena MP also added though the country has a Prime Minister, a home minister and a health minister, but they aren’t seen at the forefront of Covid management. “There is a government, administration, prime minister and health minister but the deaths due Covid-19 are increasing, several corpses are floating in the Ganga from Varanasi to Patna...the PM and home minister are on the chair but they need to be seen.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/whats-the-need-for-central-vista-amid-pandemic-asks-sena-s-sanjay-raut-101620979858314.html
14-05-2021||Lucknow||Lucknow blood banks register low stock as donations drop amid Covid-19||Blood banks in Lucknow are left with limited stock as camps and voluntary donations have witnessed a marked decrease amid the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. The state blood bank at King George’s Medical University (KGMU) has only about 700 units left against its usual stock of 2,500 to 3,000 units. With its depleted stock, the hospital is issuing only about 60 units of blood per day against its usual of 200 -250 units of blood daily. “There have been no camps after the first week of April and only a few voluntary donations per week these days,” said prof Tulika Chandra, HoD, transfusion medicine, KGMU.At Syama Prasad Mukherjee (Civil) hospital, there were only 22 units of blood as opening stock on Thursday while at Dr Ram Manohar Lohia Institute of Medical Sciences, the stock was below 300 units against the normal stock of at least over 700 units.Also Read | As Covid second wave persists, MGNREGS comes to rural India’s rescue, yet againExperts say blood donation is safe and can be done by all healthy people. “By donating blood, you get yourself checked for various disorders. From hepatitis to HIV, all infections are checked in the donated blood while it saves lives as blood components such as plasma, platelets, RBC are separated and issued for different patients,” said Dr Sandeep Kapoor, director, Healthcity hospital.“At the Lucknow Nursing Home Association blood bank, the present stock is 412 against the normal stock of 650 units,” said Dr Anoop Agrawal of the nursing home cell of IMA.“Voluntary blood donation is key to maintaining good stock in the blood bank as replacement donors (who come and donate to get one unit blood or blood component in exchange) do not add to stock and in some exchange donors, the blood has to be discarded due to infection. Whereas, most voluntary donors are healthy,” said Dr Chandra. Also, blood is donated to the destitute and pregnant women without exchange. However, the KGMU blood bank has now made arrangements to ensure that voluntary blood donors can donate blood in the safest environment and with social distancing.It has made a separate entry for such donors and all couches are placed at a safe distance. “Even if ten voluntary donors come to us, they will be on couches with safe distance between them. The entire process is being carried out keeping in view the safety of blood donors,” said Dr Chandra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lucknow-blood-banks-register-low-stock-as-donations-drop-amid-covid19-101620978778216.html
14-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi registered less than 10k Covid-19 cases in last 24 hours: Arvind Kejriwal||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday said the national capital has registered less than 10,000 Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours. "I want to share a good news with you all. In the last 24 hours, Delhi has registered less than 10k Covid-19 cases," he added."The infection rate has decreased now. It is 12% today. On April 22, it had reached 36%. This means, less number of people in Delhi are now falling ill. In the last 10 days, 3,000 hospital beds in Delhi have become vacant," Kejriwal said.Kejriwal said that nearly 1,200 ICU beds have been readied in the national capital for the Covid-19 patients. "The people of Delhi have got respite because of this," he added.Earlier in the day, Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain said Covaxin stock has almost ended and the government is now left with only 2-3 days of stock for Covishield vaccines for 18- 44 years of age group. "We can't mix already assigned centers for Covaxin & Covishield vaccines," he added.Meanwhile, the Delhi government has decided to allow walk-in vaccination for people above 45 years. "Now citizens aged 45 years and above will be able to walk-in to get vaccine jabs without hassle of online registration," said Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia. "We will administer 1.5 lakh doses to those aged 45 years and above and 1.5 lakh doses to 18-45 years age group cumulatively," he added.He also urged the Centre to redirect adequate doses of Covid-19 vaccines as Delhi government wants to vaccinate 3 lakh people daily in the national capital.Sisodia said out of 57 lakh citizens above 45 years of age, 22 lakh have been given vaccine so far.Delhi on Thursday registered 10,489 new Covid-19 cases and 308 more fatalities, while the positivity rate came down to 14.24%, according to the Delhi health department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-registered-less-than-10k-cases-in-last-24-hours-arvind-kejriwal-101620976809832.html
14-05-2021||Bhopal||Tiger strays from MP’s Bandhavgarh reserve, stays at shut resort||A tiger strayed from Madhya Pradesh’s Bandhavgarh reserve and spent two days at a nearby luxury resort closed due to Covid lockdown, officials said. The animal, which was monitored by the forest department all the while, left on its own on the third day.All tiger reserves, national parks and sanctuaries in the country are closed due to Covid fear after some lions in a Hyderabad zoo tested positive for the infection.“The tiger entered the resort on May 5 and stayed there for two days. It left on its own after that,” said manager of the resort, Samod Safari Lodge, Pawan Singh.Also Read | Madhya Pradesh govt announces free education for kids orphaned due to Covid-19The big cat, nine-year-old T-37, spent the days in the shade in the corridor of the resort and slept on the laws in the night.“Some of our staff saw the tiger drag a dead bovine into the resort garden. The animal left once there was nothing left of the dead animal,” Singh said, adding that the forest department was immediately informed.The forest department manned the resort for two days with elephants. “The tiger was not aggressive. It ate the prey and left. As there were no tourists, we decided not to disturb it,” said Bandhavgarh field director Mohit Sood.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/tiger-strays-from-mp-s-bandhavgarh-reserve-stays-at-shut-resort-101620977938090.html
14-05-2021||Chandigarh||In poll year, Punjab CM declares Malerkotla as state’s 23rd district||As the state heads for elections early next year, Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh fulfilled a long-pending demand of announcing Malerkotla as the 23rd district of the state on the occasion of Eid-ul-Fitr on Friday. Making the announcement virtually from Chandigarh, the chief minister said that a medical college, a degree college, a women’s police station and a smart school would be set up in Malerkotla, Punjab’s only Muslim-dominated town. He announced a sum of ₹6 crore for its urban development. Also read: Centre pins hopes on 5 Covid vaccines apart from Covishield, Covaxin, SputnikState cabinet minister Razia Sultana, who represents Malerkotla in the assembly, said that it was a historic occasion as the chief minister had accepted a long-pending demand of residents. “It’s been a dream come true. This decision will give a major fillip to the overall development of Malerkotla,” she said. “All residents of Malerkotla in general and Muslim brethren in particular will remain indebted to the chief minister for this gift on the auspicious occasion of Eid,” Sultana said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/in-poll-year-punjab-cm-declares-malerkotla-as-state-s-23rd-district-101620976618448.html
14-05-2021||Kolkata||Dead bodies in Ganga: Bengal govt on alert||The West Bengal government has started vigil in Malda district, where river Ganga enters the state, after reports of corpses of suspected Covid-19 patients found floating in the river in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. “We have started vigil. Mechanised country boats and speed boats have been deployed and patrolling has been stepped up in the river , particularly at Manikchak. Patrolling in on at night as well with the help of searchlights,” said a senior official of Malda district. Local fishermen and boatmen have also been alerted to inform the police and local authorities if they spot any corpse floating in the river. Ganga flows through Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand and West Bengal before finally meeting the Bay of Bengal. Also Read | SC commission begins two-day Bengal visit to probe violence“If we spot any dead body, it will be disposed of following all protocols,” said Prasanta Debnath, deputy superintendent of police in Malda district. Local administration fished at least 70 bodies out of Ganga in Bihar’s Buxar district on Tuesday. Later, another 12 corpses were spotted in the same river upstream in neighbouring Uttar Pradesh’s Ghazipur district, triggering probes in both states and speculation that the bodies belonged to Covid patients. More dead bodies have been found buried in the sand in Unnao. Meanwhile, a high-level meeting on Covid-19 at the state secretariat on Thursday also discussed the issue.“It is shocking. The river water is treated and used as drinking water. All this is happening because of the inefficiency of the Uttar Pradesh and Bihar governments,” said Firhad Hakim, state minister. Authorities at the Farrakka Barrage, which lies around 22 km downstream from the spot where the river enters Bengal, have also been alerted. “All police stations along this 22 km stretch have been asked to remain alert,” said a senior official of Malda police. On Thursday, the state reported 20,839 new Covid-19 cases, taking the total number of active cases to 130,213. According to official figures, at least 129 Covid patients died in the last 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/dead-bodies-in-ganga-bengal-govt-on-alert-101620975658597.html
14-05-2021||Lucknow||Now, 14 bodies found floating in Ganga in UP’s Chandauli, Varanasi||Days after bodies of suspected Covid-19 victims washed up on the shores of Ganga in Ghazipur and Ballia districts of Uttar Pradesh, six unidentified bodies were found floating in the river in Chandauli district and another eight bodies were found in the river in the neighbouring Varanasi on Thursday.Chandauli locals informed the administration about the bodies in Badaura Ghat area of Dhanapur. A district administration official, said on the condition of anonymity that the bodies appeared to be over a week old. They performed the last rite of the bodies along the Ganga.A vigil is being maintained along the river to ensure that no one disposes of bodies in the river, said a senior official.Chandauli shares boundaries with Ghazipur district where over two dozen bodies were found in last three days. Also Read | All in a day: 58,000 book slots,10,000 skip jabs in Uttar PradeshMeanwhile, a police officer said eight bodies were found floating in Ganga in Sujabad area of Varanasi. Five bodies were of men, two of women and one was highly decomposed.The officer said a team of lekhpals has been deployed along the Ganga to keep a watch on the river bank. Deputy commissioner of police, Kashi Zone, Amit Kumar confirmed the recovery of eight bodies whose last rites have been performed.Earlier this week, 82 bodies were fished out of Ganga at Chausa in Bihar’s Buxar district even as the National Human Right Commission issued notice to the Centre, Uttar Pradesh and Bihar and sought an action-taken report within four weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/now-14-bodies-found-floating-in-ganga-in-up-s-chandauli-varanasi-101620973017835.html
14-05-2021||Lucknow||Covid-19: UP's Jalalpur village witnesses 18 deaths in 14 days, residents accuse administration of negligence||As many as 18 Covid-related deaths have occurred in Jalalpur village in Uttar Pradesh's Gautam Buddh Nagar district in the last 14 days.A local leader Ravinder Singh Bhati told ANI, "More than 18 people have died in the last 14 days. The first death occurred on April 28."According to Bhati whoever died first got a fever, after which their oxygen level started falling."Because of this, there is panic in the villages of Greater Noida," he said."Over 70 people have died in last 20 days in Khairpur Gurjar, Saberi, Chapraula, Shahdullapur, Jalalpur, Milak Lachhi and Saini Dujana villages in Greater Noida area. However, most of them were elderly. Dozens of people are still suffering from fever in these villages," he added.The family of Atar Singh, a resident of the village, has lost two sons in the last two days. His son Pankaj died on Tuesday and his second son Deepak on Wednesday.It is not yet clear if the two men died of Covid-19.While talking to ANI, Atar's uncle said, "This has shattered the whole family. Atar's situation is as same as his sons'. It is difficult to say if he is infected or not without any test being conducted. How long will people die without being tested or treated?"Another villager Amit said that he lost his father and his whole family was infected."The local administration is doing nothing. We are in pain. My father died. The whole village is suffering. We are numb," Amit said.According to official data, as many as 17,775 new Covid-19 cases and 281 deaths have been reported in the last 24 hours in Uttar Pradesh. The active cases in the state have mounted to 2,04,658.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/covid19-up-s-jalalpur-village-witnesses-18-deaths-in-14-days-residents-accuse-administration-of-negligence-101620970970405.html
14-05-2021||Other||Bihar has lost many writers, artistes to second Covid wave||The second wave of Covid-19 pandemic has claimed lives of over a dozen writers, painters, musicians and archaeologists in Bihar the last few weeks. The names include Bihar Gaurav Gaan writer Dr Shanti Jain; Padma Shri awardee, writer Dr Ravindra Rajhans; former Bihar Sangeet Natak Akademi vice-chairman, Prof Shaileshwar Sati Prasad; and Sukant Nagarjun, veteran journalist and son of the noted writer, Nagarjun. On Thursday, Avinash Das, a teacher in the applied arts department at the Patna-based of Arts and Crafts, also succumbed to Covid. “We lost Maithili theatre artist Kumar Gagan a few weeks ago. Then, Manoj Manuj, yet another bright star of Maithili theatre, died. Almost every day, we are losing an artist or writer to Covid,” Umesh Mishra, secretary of the Chetana Samiti, a Maithili organisation, said. Also Read | Bihar extends lockdown till May 25, test positivity rate dips to 8.9%Mourning the loss of Dr Shanti Jain, cultural activist Abhijit Kashyap said, “It has caused a big void in the world of art and culture...she penned the Bihar Gaurav Gaan and for years, rendered the Ramcharit Manas on Akashwani.” Eminent artist Dr Rama said, “We also lost Dr Ravindra Rajhans...I still remember his poetry and the street plays that he used to present during the JP movement [political movement started by Jayaprakash Nayaran, or JP, against state government’s misrule].” The state also lost many musicians in the second wave of Covid. “Recently, Banaras gharana Tabla player, Shiva Kumar Singh, died due to Covid. He had groomed Grammy award winning Tabla player, Sandip Das. We also lost classical singer Ustad Irshad Khan,” she said. Kathak dancer Raghav Shah is also not doing too well, she added.Among those who succumbed to Covid were archaelogist Anil Kumar, archivist Vijay Kumar, and writer Surendra Yadav. Dr Rama said the state is fast losing its gems of art and culture due to Covid and something should be done to support the families of those who need economic support.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bihar-has-lost-many-writers-artistes-to-second-covid-wave-101620971757710.html
14-05-2021||Chandigarh||Getting vaccination certificate an uphill task for many in Panchkula||At a time when finding a slot to get inoculated has become a difficult task, the ordeal for many of those who have taken the shot continues as they have to run from pillar to post to get their vaccination certificates.One such person is Armaan from Chandigarh, who received his first dose of Covid vaccine on May 7 at the urban health centre in Panchkula’s Sector 16. He was told that the certificate will be generated shortly and he will get a message on his mobile phone.Also read: Centre pins hopes on 5 Covid vaccines apart from Covishield, Covaxin, SputnikHowever, he complained that he did not receive any message. “For five days, I visited the vaccination centre to enquire, but I was told that the particular session has expired and they are unable to verify me. I tried reaching the helpline number, but the staff was of no help,” he added. On Thursday, when he again pleaded for a certificate, an hour later he received a message that he had been successfully vaccinated on May 13. “Two of my issues have been resolved: one is that now, I won’t face any problem in getting the second dose and for travel purposes, I can show this certificate. But I had to face a really tough time to get this certificate. It should not have happened like this,” he said.Another such complainant is Ram Swaroop Chauhan from Sector 12 A. He said on March 17, he, along with his wife, had got the first shot, but when they went to a Sector-20 centre for second dose, his wife was denied the jab. “The staff there said there was no data entry in my wife’s name, so they cannot administer her the second shot. What should we do now?” he questioned. Panchkula civil surgeon Dr Jasjeet Kaur said, “Some portal issue is there, so at times one does not receive a message. Those who have not received their certificates can write to me at dhs.cspk@hry.nic.in. Their issue will be resolved.”Number of vaccination sites reducedFor those above 45 years of age, the number of vaccination sites has been reduced to five in Panchkula district. Also, only second doses of vaccines will be given to this age group.A day before, there were 21 sites of vaccination for people above 45 years. As per the authorities, they are going to focus on slum areas in the next few days.At government dispensary in Sector 12 A, Covaxin will be given, while Covishield will be administered at CHC Raipur Rani, PHC Morni, PHC Hangola and government dispensary in Sector 21.For 18-44 age group, vaccination centres are at government school, main bazaar, Kalka; CHC Raipur Rani, PHC Pinjore, PHC Barwala, PHC Kot, government dispensary in sectors 25 and 7, and government ayurvedic dispensary in Sector 9.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/getting-vaccination-certificate-an-uphill-task-for-many-in-panchkula-101620969837673.html
14-05-2021||Chandigarh||Barnala admn takes over 125 O2 cylinders in non-medical use||The Barnala district administration has taken possession of 125 oxygen cylinders that were being put to non-medical use in view of the increasing demand for oxygen amid the Covid-19 surge. The administration’s teams, led by Barnala sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) Varjeet Walia, recovered the cylinders from manufacturing units, repair shops and other establishments on Thursday. Also read: Singapore extends life-line to India in oxygen crisisTo increase the number of cylinders at the administration’s disposal for medical purpose, the deputy commissioner has directed that oxygen cylinders cannot be used for non-medical purpose. “Since the district does not have any oxygen manufacturing plant at present, the administration is sending trucks carrying empty cylinders to Mandi Gobindgarh for refilling. The refilling takes up to 20 hours after which a batch of cylinders is back. The daily consumption has risen four-fold in the last two weeks,” Walia said. The consumption of oxygen cylinders in the district has risen from 50 to 200 cylinders a day in the past fortnight.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/barnala-admn-takes-over-125-o2-cylinders-in-non-medical-use-101620969177599.html
14-05-2021||Lucknow||This UP village’s first woman pradhan leads Covid fight||Thirty-three-year-old Rita Varma, the newly elected gram pradhan of Kabirpur, a village on the outskirts of Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh, has hardly had the time to celebrate her win in the recent panchayat elections.In her win, Kabirpur, popularly known as ‘Band Baja Barat’ village for most of its men being members of brass bands which play music at wedding functions, also found its first woman gram pradhan. However, Verma had to hit the ground running as people in this village started falling ill soon after her election. “Soon after election, several people took ill. Many were suffering from fever, but they were hesitant of getting tested for Covid. It was then I started a campaign to create awareness about coronavirus in my village of around 20,000 people,” she says.“I motivated the residents, especially the senior citizens, about the importance of getting tested so that the infection doesn’t spread further, and precious lives are saved. Due to the steps taken, our village is almost corona-free today.”Also Read | All in a day: 58,000 book slots,10,000 skip jabs in Uttar PradeshHer husband, Umesh Kumar Varma, chips in, “I was taken aback when she expressed her desire to contest the election. You may think she is an average homemaker but she has always been vocal about the problems of poor sanitation, roads and lack of health infrastructure in the village. She created awareness about health and hygiene among the women.”Varma got almost 50% votes and defeated the sitting pradhan by a huge margin. From the very next day, she started her campaign to educate villagers about the importance of Covid appropriate behavior. She formed teams in every lane which keep a check on the movement of residents without masks or those violating social distancing.Next on her agenda is opening of primary health centre (PHC) or a dispensary in Kabirpur. “Presently, anyone who falls sick has to go to Gosainganj for treatment. I have written to authorities for the need of a PHC or a dispensary so that people don’t die due to lack of medical infrastructure. Besides, I have formed groups in every lane to make people aware of the importance of lockdown, social distancing and sanitisation during the present testing times. I have also asked for additional sanitation workers to keep the drains and lanes clean. If I don’t get them, we will perform kar sewa to do it ourselves.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/this-up-village-s-first-woman-pradhan-leads-covid-fight-101620969057504.html
14-05-2021||Delhi||Jarnail Singh will be remembered for his contributions to society: Kejriwal||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday condoled the demise of former Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MLA Jarnail Singh and said he will be fondly rememebred for his contributions to the society."Deeply saddened by the untimely demise of former Delhi MLA Sh Jarnail Singh ji. May God bless his soul. He will always be fondly remembered for his contributions to society," Kejriwal said in a tweet.Singh was suspended from the AAP last year after he posted a blasphemous post disrespecting Hindu Gods on Facebook.He later deleted the post after facing backlash on social media. Singh said it was not him but his son who had put the post using his phone."Aam Aadmi Party is a secular party and has no place in the party of anyone who disrespects any religion. The Sikh community is also very sad with his statement because such misfortune against any community is also against the teachings of Guru Nanak Dev Ji (sic)," the AAP had said in a statement.The decision to suspend Singh was taken in the meeting of the party's Political Affairs Committee (PAC).Singh was elected to the Delhi assembly from Rajouri Garden in 2014. He resigned in 2017 to contest the Punjab assembly elections against former chief minister Parkash Singh Badal.A former journalist, Singh had first come into limelight in 2009 for throwing shoes at then cabinet minister P Chidambaram during a press conference.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/jarnail-singh-will-be-remembered-for-his-contributions-to-society-kejriwal-101620962790676.html
14-05-2021||Delhi||Cloudy sky today, Delhi could see light rain as well||Delhi is likely to see a cloudy sky and light rain on Friday, as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast.The minimum temperature on Friday is likely to be at 22 degrees Celsius (°C) while the maximum temperature is predicted to reach 37°C.The minimum temperature on Thursday was 21.3°C, four notches below normal and the maximum temperature was 35.3°C, again four notches below the normal.Also Read | DDA to allot vacant plots to pvt hospitals, medical facilities for Covid-19 careDelhi’s air quality was in the satisfactory category on Friday morning. Data from Central Pollution Control Board showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 7am stood at 100. On Thursday, the average 24-hour AQI had been 121.An AQI between zero and 50 is considered good, 51 and 100 satisfactory, 101 and 200 moderate, 201 and 300 poor, 301 and 400 very poor, and 401 and 500 severe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/cloudy-sky-today-delhi-could-see-light-rain-as-well-101620960956643.html
14-05-2021||Chandigarh||Kangra schools told to hold online classes for only two hours a day||Schools in Kangra district have been asked to conduct online classes for not more than two hours a day and five days a week. Kangra deputy commissioner Rakesh Kumar Prajapati said on Friday that the decision was taken after parents of students had complained that some schools were conducting online classes for long durations, and it was taking a toll on the health of the children. Also read: Covid-19: What you need to know todaySeeking directions to schools to curtail the duration of virtual classes for children, the parents said the screen time was affecting the eyesight and also causing stress. “We have issued directions on the demand by parents,” Prajapati said. Steps to check prices of medicines, equipment The deputy commissioner has issued guidelines to drug controllers in Kangra to ensure the sale of essential medicines and medical equipment at the prescribed prices. He said drug controllers have been asked to submit regular inspection reports. It has been made compulsory to put a rate list at shops selling vegetables and essential food items. The Agriculture Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) and the food and civil supplies department will ensure enforcement, Prajapati said. Covid testing ramped up in district He said testing has been ramped up in the district and those whose samples have been sent for RT-PCR test shall stay at home till their report turns out negative. The health authorities have been asked to shift vaccination centres from hospitals to nearby schools or community buildings for the convenience of people. For systematic vaccination, the health authorities have been asked to ensure separate rows for the 18-44 age group, 45+ and 60+ at vaccination centres. Vaccination for the 18-44 age group will start on May 17. Rates have been fixed for private funeral vans and ambulances. It will be ₹600 for 10km for small and heavy vehicles. After 10km, the rate will be ₹10 for small vehicles and ₹15 for heavy vehicles. For private ambulances with oxygen and ventilator facility, the rate has been fixed at ₹40 per km.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/kangra-schools-told-to-hold-online-classes-for-only-two-hours-a-day-101620959576773.html
14-05-2021||Delhi||DDA to allot vacant plots to pvt hospitals, medical facilities for Covid-19 care||The Delhi Development Authority (DDA) will allot vacant land to hospitals and medical institutions to set up Covid care infrastructure on a temporary basis, a decision it took after receiving requests from several facilities, officials of the land-owning agency said.A proposal, which was approved by Delhi’s Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal, was sent to the Union ministry of housing and urban affairs last week to relax the allotment rules, a decision that was accepted with some conditions, officials said.A senior DDA official said, “Requests have been received from government institutions and private hospitals. They want land near their facility to be handed over for Covid-related infrastructure. The land can be given to government institutions as per the current policy. However, to allot land to private hospitals or institutions, we need a change or relaxation in the rules.”The plots, officials said, will be licensed for six months on subsidised charges.The agency recently decided to hand over community halls and vacant land parcels to set up Covid care infrastructure. These halls are open to government organisations, non-government organisations, institutions, resident welfare associations, among others.A senior DDA official said, “We have been getting requests for allotment of community halls from various authorities. Now, we have identified 46 community halls across Delhi that are to be allotted on request.”As per a policy drafted by DDA, community centres can be used as Covid wards or care centres, outpatient departments, isolation facilities, medical storage facilities, or others.DDA officials said that while the allotment will be done on a first-come first-served basis, priority will be given to government and local bodies in the event of multiple requests for a site.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/dda-to-allot-vacant-plots-to-pvt-hospitals-medical-facilities-for-covid-19-care-101620949016892.html
14-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi O2 demand down to 582 MT as Covid-19 cases drop||The Delhi government on Thursday said it has scaled down its requirement of medical oxygen from 700 metric tonne (MT) to 582 MT in view of the receding Covid-19 trajectory in the city, with cases and positivity rates seeing a steady drop over the past two weeks, and consequently easing pressure on the Capital’s health care system.The positivity rate – the proportion of samples tested that return positive for Covid-19 – continued its sharp decline and touched 14.24% on Thursday, the lowest in a single day in a month, or since April 13. A total of 10,489 new cases were reported on Thursday, the lowest daily tally since April 10, according to the Delhi government’s health bulletin.“As of today, the positivity rate has come down to 14% and around 10,400 new Covid-19 cases were reported. Now that cases are reducing, we are seeing a decrease in demand for beds and medical oxygen. When daily cases were peaking around 15 days ago, our calculations, factoring in bed occupancy and active cases, showed Delhi required 700MT of oxygen. But today, after assessment of the Covid-19 situation, Delhi’s oxygen need has been revised to 582MT per day,” deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said in a press briefing on Thursday.“As a responsible government, we will give the surplus oxygen to the states that need it,” he said.The development comes as the number of active cases in the city dropped to 77,717 on Thursday, the lowest in 24 days. Just 15 days ago, active cases in the city were hovering close to 100,000 mark – the number peaked at 99,752 on April 28, the highest ever recorded in the city. Active cases – those Covid-19 patients under treatment – is a crucial metric representing the region’s battle against the disease because it directly reflects the pressure on the health care system.With active cases soaring, the Capital’s raging fourth wave had sparked a massive health crisis in the city with reports emerging of hospitals running out of ICU beds, and crucial supplies such as oxygen cylinders with the Centre not supplying the demanded quota of 700 MT. Burdened by the massive caseload from mid-April onwards, several hospitals across Delhi sent out distress calls, resorting even to making appeals on social media websites, as their stocks of medical oxygen dwindled rapidly.At the worst of this crisis, only 13.6% of Delhi’s Covid-19 beds were empty (16,942 occupied and 2,666 vacant) on April 20, while six days after that the city had completely run out of ICU beds for general public, according to government data. Currently, of the total 24,418 beds across the Capital, 18,005 are occupied and 6,413 vacant.This led to the Supreme Court initiating suo motu proceedings starting April 22 in order to deal with the Covid-19 emergency, including the shortages of oxygen in regions such as Delhi. During the proceedings over the course of the past few weeks, the apex court directed the Union government to ensure 700 MT of medical oxygen is supplied to Delhi every day. The Centre had consistently claimed that it cannot supply as much oxygen as Delhi wants. But after days of repeated warnings and prodding by the high court as well as the apex court, Centre managed to eventually increase Delhi’s supply – on May 5, Delhi received over 700 MT for the first time.In between, on April 29, the Delhi government had also revised its demand to 976 MT based on future projections as per its bed augmentation plan, but soon reverted to its old demand of 700 MT after the Supreme Court directions.With the situation improving, Sisodia said on Thursday the Delhi government has also written to the Centre about the city’s revised oxygen demand. He thanked the Centre, the Supreme Court and the Delhi high court for coming to the aid of the people of Delhi in times of distress.On an average, Delhi is now getting 579.25 MT oxygen on a daily basis between May 4 and May 11, data showed.At its peak, Delhi recorded 28,395 cases on April 20, soon after chief minister Arvind Kejriwal expanded the night and weekend curfew protocols into a lockdown. That protocol has now been renewed several times and will stay at least till May 17 in order to further flatten the curve.In the past two weeks, however, the situation in Delhi appears to be consistently turning a corner with the positivity rate and new cases dropping at a steady rate. Average positivity rate has dropped more than 10 percentage points in the past 15 days – from 32.9% for the week ending April 28 to 19.7% in the past week. The rate of new infections, meanwhile, has dropped 44% from peak levels – the seven-day day average of new cases have dropped to 14,206 infections a day in the past week against a peak of 25,294 for the week ending April 23.The reduction in the oxygen demand for Delhi also comes days after the Supreme Court on May 8 ordered an audit of supply, distribution and utilisation of oxygen supply in the national capital. The top court set up a panel comprising All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) director Randeep Guleria, Max Hospital’s Sandeep Budhiraja and an IAS officer each from the central and Delhi governments to conduct the audit.Dr Lalit Kant, former head of the department of epidemiology at the Indian Council of Medical Research, said the oxygen crisis should be taken as a lesson learnt and preparations should continue to face potential future waves of Covid-19, particularly by vaccinating as many people as possible.“Oxygen supply and distribution has fairly been sorted for now. Administrations now know the drill about what is to be done when the demand spikes again. But preparations to face the third wave will largely depend on increasing vaccination coverage. The central government should urgently ramp up vaccine production and imports,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-o2-demand-down-to-582-mt-as-cases-drop-101620938857857.html
14-05-2021||Other||25 lose battle to virus in Ludhiana, most below 60 years||The district saw 25 more deaths in the last 24 hours, of which at least 17 patients were below the age of 60. Of the total, seven patients were in their forties, two were in their thirties and another eight in their fifties.Besides, six who died were in their sixties and two were in their seventies. Also, 17 of the fatalities were males while eight were females. Another 1,355 people tested positive with the total number of positive cases since the beginning of the pandemic reaching 72,421.The youngest to succumb is a 33-year-old woman of Khud Mohalla while the eldest is a 74-year-old resident of Sahnewal.On Wednesday, of 28 fatalities, most victims were in their 50s (13), four victims were in their 30s, five in their 60s and four in their 70s. On May 11, as many as 17 of the total 30 fatalities were above the age of 60.A number of deaths were in the surrounding rural areas or nearby towns and villages of Khanna, Sahnewal, Mullanpur Dakha and Pakhowal.In Ludhiana, both Shimla Puri and Model Town continue to figure prominently on the death list with several deaths being reported from these areas every day. The district’s current stands at 1,663. Deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma reiterated that the situation is critical and people should not venture out of their homes unless absolutely necessary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/25-lose-battle-to-virus-in-ludhiana-most-below-60-years-101620937913014.html
14-05-2021||Chandigarh||3 factory workers killed as vehicle rams into bike in Patiala||Three factory workers were killed after an unidentified vehicle rammed into their motorcycle near Sahauli village in Patiala district on Thursday.The incident took place on the Nabha-Bhadson road when the victims, identified as Sandeep Kumar of Aloharan Khurd village, Yoginder Sahota and Vikramjeet Singh of Nabha, all aged 21, were headed to work at a factory at Madhopur village. Investigating officer Gurbachan Singh said they received information around 10am that three youths lay unconscious and were bleeding profusely. “The three had died on the spot. The driver of the vehicle that hit their bike managed to flee from the spot,” he said. Yoginder’s parents said he started working at the factory just three days ago.A case against unidentified driver was registered under sections 279 (rash driving) and 304-A (causing death due to negligence) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/3-factory-workers-killed-as-vehicle-rams-into-bike-in-patiala-101620937252699.html
14-05-2021||Chandigarh||IIT Ropar develops smokeless cremation cart requiring less wood as pandemic rages||The Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Ropar, in collaboration with Cheema Boilers, a Mohali-based firm engaged in manufacturing of combustion systems, has developed an eco-friendly technology that involves smokeless cremation of bodies on a cart at high temperatures with 100 percent sterilisation keeping in view of the rise in coronavirus mortalities in Punjab and elsewhere. Prof Harpreet Singh, dean, ICSR&II (IIT Ropar), said, “Usually the wood costs about ₹2,500 for disposing a body. Therefore, the poor end up disposing partially burnt bodies, or even whole corpses in rivers. Also, a typical Hindu cremation in which a body is put on a three-foot high open air pyre can consume more than 400 kg wood to reduce the body to ashes. Now, this can be done with the help of this eco-friendly cremation cart.”The technology is based on Wick Stove, in which the wick when lighted glows yellow and is converted into smokeless blue flames after installing the combustion air system over the wicks.The cart has wheels and can be transported anywhere without much effort. It has stainless steel trays on both sides for an easy removal of ash. The cart is equipped with combustion air for primary and secondary hot air system. Also, it works on temperature above 1000°C that ensures complete sterilisation. Cheema Boilers managing director Harjinder Singh Cheema said, “We are providing the simplest and cheapest way of cremation, which can be performed with half of the wood required and can reduce the carbon footprint by half. This technology can also be used on LPG using domestic gas cylinders. But changing the mindset of people is an uphill task.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/iit-ropar-develops-smokeless-cremation-cart-requiring-less-wood-as-pandemic-rages-101620936592973.html
14-05-2021||Other||Ludhiana’s vaccine stock dries up again, no inoculations today||For the fourth time in three weeks, Ludhiana has run out of its vaccine stock. While only a few inoculations were carried out on Thursday, the health department has announced that the drive stands suspended on Friday.Earlier, the district had run out of the stock on April 27, May 1 and May 4. In view of the shortage, the health department had stopped the supply of vaccines to private hospitals on May 3.So far, as many as 6,15,001 people have received the jabs in the district. On May 11, as many as 10,348 inoculations were carried out while on May 10, as many as 9,656 residents received the jabs.Due to the shortage, the health department has also temporarily suspended the online registration sites for vaccination. District immunisation officer Dr Puneet Juneja said, “We had been getting repeated complaints from residents that on reaching the vaccination sites, they find out that the vaccine is not available. So, we have temporarily suspended the registration sites.”Dr Juneja also confirmed that the drive has been suspended on Friday. “We are hoping to receive the fresh stock of vaccines by Saturday,” the immunisation officer said.Munish Dogra, a resident who had visited a vaccination site on Thursday said, “As the online registration process was not working, I visited a vaccination site hoping for walk-in registration but the staff there said they had suspended the drive for the day. They were also clueless about when the drive will resume.”Saurabh Sharma, another resident, said, “At a time when people are dying, the health department has run out of vaccine. The government should have stocked up adequately so that people could be vaccinated at the earliest.” The state secretary of Pradhan Mantri Jankalyankari Yojna Prachar Prasar Abhiyan, Vineet Pal Singh Monga wrote to deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma and demanded that the vaccination process must be streamlined. “People in the 45-plus age category are not able to get the second dose of the either Covishield or Covaxin even after the lapse of 28 to 45 days from the day of first dose. This is total mismanagement,” he wrote.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhianas-vaccine-stock-dries-up-again-no-inoculations-today-101620936532104.html
14-05-2021||Chandigarh||Firm on demand for prompt action in sacrilege cases, says Randhawa||Cooperation and jails minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa said on Thursday that he was firm on his demand for prompt action against the culprits in sacrilege cases but would not politicise this issue. Randhawa, whose meetings with former minister Navjot Singh Sidhu and some other ministers and MPs critical of the state government’s handling of the Kotkapura police firing case have become a talking point, said that his stand on the sacrilege issue and those named in drug cases was known to everyone. “I want them punished,” he told reporters outside cabinet minister Aruna Chaudhary’s official residence. Nawanshahr MLA Angad Singh was also present. Asked about the purpose of his meeting with Chaudhary, Randhawa said they were discussing the elections of cooperative sugar mill in Gurdaspur. “There was no political discussion,” he said before attending the meeting of the state cabinet. Chaudhary also said there was no political motive behind the meeting. Randhawa’s meeting with Chaudhary had aroused curiosity in political circles as she was the only cabinet minister to attend a meeting of Congress’ SC and OBC MLAs called by technical education minister Charanjit Singh Channi at his residence on Tuesday to discuss the delay in the implementation of promises made to the community in 2017. The dozen-odd Dalit and OBC ministers and MLAs have sought time from the chief minister for a meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/firm-on-demand-for-prompt-action-in-sacrilege-cases-says-randhawa-101620936472838.html
14-05-2021||Chandigarh||Conmen posing as Kishor aides dupe Cong MLAs promising tickets, 2 held||Members of a gang posing as aides of Prashant Kishor, principal adviser to Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh, allegedly duped Congress MLAs and other political leaders in Punjab of lakhs of rupees by promising them tickets of the ruling party in the upcoming Punjab assembly elections. Two of the accused were arrested from a hotel near Jalandhar, police said. A case under sections 420, 379, 473 and 120-B of the Indian Penal Code was registered at the Dehlon police station in Ludhiana against the accused identified as Ranchit Kumar, alias Raja, Gaurav Sharma and Rakesh Paseen, all residents of Amritsar. The police have also recovered a Mahindra Scorpio with a fake number plate (PB02 ZK 3540). The police suspect the vehicle is stolen. The duped leaders and MLAs are from Ludhiana, Mansa, Bathinda, Jalandhar, Amritsar and other districts of Punjab. The case came to the fore when some MLAs reported the matter to the CM who ordered Ludhiana police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal to nab the accused. A Congress leader, seeking anonymity, said the accused sought money from and assured him of victory in the elections.Police commissioner Agrawal said investigation is on and they are likely to get more leads in the case.Amarinder had appointed Kishor as his principal advisor ahead of the assembly elections in Punjab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/conmen-posing-as-kishor-aides-dupe-cong-mlas-promising-tickets-2-held-101620936414376.html
14-05-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab has no dedicated wards for children infected with virus||No dedicated wards or facilities are in place for children suffering from the coronavirus in Punjab amid a surge in cases of infection and the fact that experts have warned of a threat of attack on adolescents and younger population during the third wave of the pandemic. Even as paediatricians and epidemiologists have sought exclusive wards for children, senior health department officials claim that they are managing the situation for now and arrangements for separate facilities will be made as and when required.Experts say as the virus has mutated and chances of its further mutation cannot be ruled out, it can affect children in the coming days. “Early preparedness is the need of the hour to prevent Covid-19 mortality in children and for that dedicated level-2 and level-3 facilities should be identified in government and private health care centres,” said a senior doctor. Dr Harshinder Kaur, an associate professor at Government Medical College, Patiala, said, “We have four children in our Covid-19 ward. The virus is attacking children, including newborns. We would need for paediatric intensive care unit (ICU) and neo-natal ICU. But we are not well-equipped to handle such cases.” “We should make arrangements in advance as schools and colleges will reopen. We have not learnt any lesson from the first wave of the pandemic. A neonate and an adult need different levels of oxygen but it is not possible in the same set-up,” she added. Dr Pyare Lal Garg, former registrar, Baba Farid University of Health Sciences (BFUHS), Faridkot, said the government should make adequate arrangements in advance to handle the situation. “There is a large young population in Punjab. It is the need of the hour to make arrangements for the second and third wave,” added Garg.Sangrur civil surgeon Dr Anjana Gupta said children are being kept in home isolation when they are found positive. “If needed, we isolate them under the supervision of paediatricians,” she added. Barnala civil surgeon Dr Harinderjit Singh Garg said there is no separate facility for children suffering from the virus in Barnala. “Children will be isolated in the same wards where other Covid patients are getting treatment.”Director (health and family welfare, Punjab) Dr GB Singh said, “We will earmark beds for children if the need arises. But at present, they will be cured in the same isolation centres. We will see if the third wave attacks children,” he added.In Sangrur district alone, 76 children in the 0-10 age group and 342 youngsters aged between 15 and 20 have been tested positive so far this year. Also, a 15-year-old hailing from Barnala district succumbed to the virus at the Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh, last month, health department official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-has-no-dedicated-wards-for-children-infected-with-virus-101620936413076.html
14-05-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh tricity sees decline in Covid cases for second straight day||The tricity on Thursday registered a decline in Covid-19 infections for the second day in a row with 2,042 new cases.On Wednesday, with 2,082 cases, the tricity’s daily tally had dropped below 2,200 after four days – during which it had also recorded its highest single-day surge with 2,612 cases on May 10.While Chandigarh and Panchkula contributed to Thursday’s decline with 760 and 291 cases, respectively, Mohali’s cases rose to 991 from Wednesday’s 713. Chandigarh and Panchkula had logged 776 and 593 cases, respectively, the day before.The daily deaths, too, dropped from Wednesday’s 29 to 23, but remained above 20 for the seventh straight day.Chandigarh reported the highest deaths at 10, followed by eight in Mohali and five in Panchkula. On Wednesday, Chandigarh had equalled its all-time high of 14 on May 5 and Panchkula had set a new record with eight deaths.Mohali’s case and death tallies have climbed to 58,863 and 730, respectively, both highest in the tricity.The active cases, at 12,203, are also on the top, while the recovery rate at 80% with 45,930 recoveries is the lowest.Chandigarh’s total has reached 53,393 cases and 609 deaths. As many as 8,441 patients are still recuperating at hospitals or in home isolation. With 837 patients getting discharged, the number of recoveries has reached 44,343 (81%).At 88%, Panchkula has the highest recovery rate in the tricity after 23,593 recoveries, and is also ahead of the national average of 83.3%. At 15%, its positivity rate – proportion of samples testing positive – is the lowest in the tricity, while the figure is hovering over 20% in Chandigarh and Mohali.Panchkula’s cumulative cases stand at 26,653, of which 2,788 are still active. The latest fatalities took the toll to 272. The youngest among them was a 34-year old man from Raipur Rani. The other deceased included two women, aged 42 and 67, from Vasudevpura and Sector 19, and a 75-year-old man from Sector 9 and a 41-year old man from Kalka.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-tricity-sees-decline-in-covid-cases-for-second-straight-day-101620936352784.html
14-05-2021||Chandigarh||7,000 slots for 18+ snapped up in an hour in Chandigarh||As the UT administration threw open vaccination time slots for the 18-44 age group on Thursday afternoon, it took only an hour for all 7,000 slots to get booked.The appointment booking on the CoWin portal started around 2.55pm, with only a couple of the seven centres for this age group made available for bookings till May 22.As more centres became accessible through the next hour, all 7,000 slots were gone by 4pm.Vaccinations for this age bracket will begin at seven centres in Chandigarh from 9am on Friday. Online appointment is mandatory.Officials said 1,000 slots per day were opened on Thursday and from 10am on Friday, more will be made available for May 23 onwards. They said so far, for an estimated population of around 3,55,000 in this age group, only 33,000 doses had been received.“More slots will be opened once more supply is received from the manufacturers,” said UT adviser Manoj Parida.Panchkula was the first in the tricity to roll out third phase of the vaccination drive on May 2, while Mohali launched it only for construction workers on May 9.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/7000-slots-for-18-snapped-up-in-an-hour-in-chandigarh-101620936173110.html
14-05-2021||Chandigarh||New Punjab Prison Rules to focus on safe, secure custody of inmates||The Punjab cabinet on Thursday gave its nod to Punjab Prison Rules, 2021, under the Prison Act 1894, thus superseding the archaic and outdated jails manual. The cabinet noted that the provisions of the Punjab Jail Manual, 1996, had become archaic with the passage of time and there was imminent need to update it in the changed scenario of modernisation, prison computerisation and latest laws. The virtual meeting was chaired by chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh. A spokesperson of the chief minister’s office said the Punjab Jail Manual, 1996, primarily focused more on safe and secure custody of prisoners. The newly drafted Punjab Prison Rules, 2021, lay emphasis not only on safe and secure custody of prisoners but also on other aspects, such as welfare, corrections and aftercare, which have emerged as equally important in modern times. “In order to ensure effective surveillance, safe custody and prevention of escapes, new security parameters have been introduced in the new rules. For lodging of high risk prisoners such as gangsters, drug offenders, terrorists, radicals, etc, ‘prisons within prisons’ - high security enclosures/zones – have been created,” the spokesperson said. The infrastructural requirements of these enclosures have been defined. These shall be equipped with wireless sets, alarm system, dedicated power back up, hand-held and doorframe metal detectors, video-conferencing facilities, closed-circuit TV cameras, X-ray baggage machines, body scanners, and any other modern electronic security devices. A multi-tier security grid has also been placed for better monitoring on the high security zones, according to an official release. For reducing recidivism, ensuring successful rehabilitation and social reintegration of released convict prisoners, a framework for aftercare assistance has been incorporated in the new rules. This will cover many aspects, such as assistance in employment/entrepreneurship, medical treatment, marriage, renting a house, etc. Similarly, various other provisions incorporating use of technology for a more efficient and effective prison administration have been added. On the hardware side, provisions for use of modern security equipment and surveillance gadgets have been made, including artificial intelligence enabled CCTVs, motion sensors, mobile jammers, siren/alarm system, body scanners, X-ray baggage scanners, touch screen kiosks for inmate details, etc. On the software side, provisions for deployment of Prison Management Information System, trial through video conferencing, e-wallet, e-office, e-procurement, Integrated Criminal Justice System (ICJS), etc. have been made. A new provision for a grievance redressal system in every prison, which will provide every inmate the legitimate opportunity to voice his/her grievances, has been incorporated in the new rules. Under this system, compliant boxes shall be installed at different locations in the prison. A provision for electronic communication such as video conferencing has been made so that the inmates can hold face to face interviews with family/friends or legal counsel, according to the spokesperson. The cabinet also gave post-facto approval for the procurement of hospital material and consumables worth ₹152.56 crore by the departments of health and family welfare, medical education and research and police for effective management of Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/new-punjab-prison-rules-to-focus-on-safe-secure-custody-of-inmates-101620935933053.html
14-05-2021||Chandigarh||PU moves high court seeking stay on judgment over senate polls||Panjab University (PU) has approached the high court challenging the judgment which had in March asked the varsity to hold polls within two months. The appeal was taken up by the bench of Justice Ritu Bahri on Thursday wherein appearing for the varsity additional solicitor general Satya Pal Jain told the court that on April 16, poll schedule was announced for April 26. Thereafter, this notification was revised and election was rescheduled for May 19. However, Punjab government had put in place restrictions due to Covid-19 situation in which there was a strict provision that not more than 20 people be allowed in any event. A total of 3,75,500 voters are there which are spread across six states and keeping in view the present situation, it is not possible to hold the election, the court was told. Appearing for respondents, senior advocate RS Cheema, too, did not dispute the facts presented by the varsity on Covid situation. The court adjourned the matter till July 8 stating that situation would be reassessed on the adjourned date. It was on March 23 that the high court had criticised the role of PU vice-chancellor Raj Kumar and a single judge bench had directed the university to hold senate polls within two months. The high court order came on the plea of seven former senators, who had moved court on December 22, seeking directions to hold governing body polls. The term of the senate, the apex governing body of PU, had ended on October 31, 2020. Elections were to take place in August 2020, but varsity deferred it citing Covid-19 as the reason for the same. The single judge bench had observed that provisions on governance have been “thrown off to the winds” and university was being run as a “one-man show”. PU in this appeal says the March 23 judgment was not only contrary to facts but also contrary to three division bench judgments of high court wherein decisions on various steps taken in view of pandemic were upheld by the court in the matters of admissions and others. The court was also told that the directions are untenable because the varsity is bound to follow restrictions/prohibitions imposed by the respective states during the pandemic. There is no evidence in entire writ petition as to how a particular person has been unduly benefitted or prejudiced by the varsity decision of deferring polls, the university says, further stating that findings against the vice-chancellor that he appeared to have acted on political considerations are unwarranted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pu-moves-high-court-seeking-stay-on-judgment-over-senate-polls-101620935812621.html
14-05-2021||Other||Free pick-and-drop facility to jab centres remains a non-starter in Ludhiana||The free pick-and-drop service initiated by the Ludhiana police to facilitate the vaccination of elderly beneficiaries against Covid-19 has failed to take off amid unavailability of jab slots across the city.The district administration has been facing an acute shortage of vaccine doses due to which the beneficiaries are unable to book online slots for inoculation.Under the scheme, the police had roped in NGO Humhain for providing free rides to elderly persons to the jab centres.Darbara Singh, who is operating the service for the NGO, said they get 250 to 300 calls daily regarding the rides, but the requests are turned down due to lack of online appointments for vaccination.“Elderly persons are making calls to book rides to vaccination centres, but in the absence of confirmed online appointments, we are unable to chauffeur them around as there it is uncertain if they would get the jab or not amid vaccine shortage and freezing of online booking,” he said.As the NGO is trying to engage more volunteers for the service, some city residents have offered to provide their vehicles for the cause. “We will definitely provide free rides to those elderly persons who have confirmed booking of jab slots,” said Singh.Joint police commissioner Deepak Pareek said that the initiative is meant to help people, especially elderly persons. “Once the vaccine stock is replenished and online booking is back on, the NGO will provide the free service as committed,” he said.Dr Puneet Juneja, district immunisation officer, said as soon as vaccination centres receive sufficient vaccine doses, they would start giving online appointments.On May 11, the police had launched the free pick-and-drop service for senior citizens seeking Covid vaccination. A helpline number (9577744447) was also issued for booking the free rides.Police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal had then announced that the senior citizens who had booked vaccination slots could call for the vehicles, which would pick them up from their homes and drop them back after the vaccination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/free-pick-and-drop-facility-to-jab-centres-remains-a-non-starter-in-ludhiana-101620935752826.html
14-05-2021||Chandigarh||This forgotten 200-year-old Mohali village is still awaiting 21st century life||No approach road, dispensary or public transport and just a primary school depict the sorry state of affairs at Bhikandi village in Mohali’s Majri block.Even though the Right to Education Act mandates provision of a primary school (up to Class 5) within a village’s 1km area and an upper primary school (up to Class 8) within 3km, children at Bhikandi are forced to travel 8km for classes beyond Class 5.The nearest senior secondary school is 12km away, due to which girls are often made to drop out after Class 10 and even boys don’t pursue education beyond Class 12.Home to nearly 700 people, the ramshackle village never got an approach road, also limiting its transport avenues.“Our village is over 200 years old, but even in the 21st century, it’s devoid of an approach road, dispensary, transport and high or senior secondary school. Even pursuing agriculture is a pain, as the fields and houses get flooded during monsoon every year,” said village sarpanch Pal Singh.“The villagers did see a ray of hope when member of Parliament Manish Tewari visited us in 2019 and assured all basic amenities, but nothing has changed even two years down the line,” he added.For even the smallest of ailments, villagers are forced to travel huge distances. “There is no medical facility either in the village or in the nearby areas. When my wife got a fever, I had to take her on my bicycle to the nearest hospital,” said Kashmira Singh, a villager.None of Kashmira’s three daughters studied after Class 10, while his only son also struggled to clear Class 12. Now, his daughters stay home and his son takes up menial jobs.“We have met so many officials for the village’s development, but the government has done nothing to ensure the villagers live fulfilling lives. There’s not even a part-time veterinary doctor to look after our cattle,” said Nirmal Singh, another villager.When contacted, Kharar sub-divisional magistrate Himanshu Jain said he will seek a report from the district development and panchayat officer (DDPO) and also visit the village. “The report will help kick-start work on ensuring basic amenities in the village,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/this-forgotten-200-year-old-mohali-village-is-still-awaiting-21st-century-life-101620935696861.html
14-05-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Housing Board’s 79 built-up flats up for grabs||The Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) will start sale of its 79 built-up residential units on freehold basis through e-tender from 10am on May 17. The deadline of e-bid submission on www.etenders.chd.nic.in is 6pm on May 31, following which bids will open on June 1. On offer are 1, 2, 3 bedroom, medium-income group and economically weaker section (EWS) flats. Their reserve price ranges between ₹23.44 lakh for EWS flats and ₹86.24 lakh for three-bedroom flats (see box). In the first phase of the auction in the first week of May, CHB had received 105 bids for 36 of the 109 properties up for sale. A three-bedroom flat in Sector 63 had fetched the board ₹1.05 crore against a reserve price of ₹86 lakh. Two similar properties in the sector also went for more than ₹1 crore. In all, CHB had earned ₹29.41 crore from the auction. As per conditions, successful bidders are required to deposit 25% of the bid amount within five working days. However, six highest bidders could not meet the deadline and hence their earnest money of ₹2 lakh each was forfeited. These six dwelling units have been included in the second phase of the auction, which is open to all citizens of India as well as NRIs and PIOs above 18 years of age. Persons already having any property (residential or commercial) can also participate in the e-tender.E-bid requirementsThe e-bid must be above the reserve price and the bidders can revise their e-bids, any number of times, till closure of bid submission. The properties will be allotted to the highest bidder.The dwelling units can be further sold, alienated, transferred, etc., after the execution of Conveyance Deed with CHB, as per law and the board’s transfer policies applicable to freehold properties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-housing-board-s-79-built-up-flats-up-for-grabs-101620935695445.html
14-05-2021||Chandigarh||AAP accuses central, Punjab govts of playing politics over ventilators||Chandigarh Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MLA and state kisan wing president Kultar Singh Sandhwan on Thursday accused the central and state governments of playing politics on the “faulty ventilators” purchased through PM Cares Fund. In a statement, Sandhwan alleged that chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh, health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu and medical education minister O P Soni were responsible for the deaths due to non-availability of ventilators and other health services in the state. The AAP MLA said he had he had taken up the matter regarding the poor quality ventilators with the state government on September 8, 2020, and again in a high-level meeting held on March 5, 2021, at Baba Farid Medical College in which medical education minister OP Soni along with secretaries, MLAs and deputy commissioners were present. During the meeting when discussion was held on 14 ventilators kept in the medical college, it was informed that these ventilators were not working properly and not being used,” he said. Sandhwan said he had raised the issue of ventilators from time to time, but the state government did not resolve the problem. The government was now saying that it would get them repaired, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/aap-accuses-central-punjab-govts-of-playing-politics-over-ventilators-101620935692600.html
14-05-2021||Chandigarh||Jabs for 18+: Punjab to launch vaccination for kin of health workers from Friday||Chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Thursday announced the launch of 18-44 age group vaccination for families of healthcare workers in government and private sectors as well as those suffering from co-morbidities from Friday. Directing judicious use of the limited available stocks of vaccine, the CM also directed the health department to initiate the process of vaccinating co-morbid prisoners in this age group. Reviewing the Covid situation and the vaccination status at a virtual meeting of his cabinet, Amarinder asked the health department to kick-start the vaccination programme for these priority groups from identified school and other buildings to prevent further spread of the pandemic to avoid crowding at government hospitals. Briefing the cabinet, Dr Gagandeep Kang, a special invitee to the expert group, said with preliminary data showing vaccines working better against the coronavirus than expected, including against the mutant B.1.617 variety, a targeted response to the vaccination programme was needed. She suggested more extensive use of Covishield, given its affordability and availability, and the fact that it offers high efficacy even with a single dose, while the second dose can be extended up to 12 weeks. Dr Kang suggested that the Government of India should be requested to include obesity in the list of comorbidities for vaccination priority. HUNGER HELPLINE ANNOUNCED Poor and underprivileged Covid patients can call up Hunger Helpline numbers 181 and 112 from Friday for delivery of free cooked meals at their doorstep through the Punjab Police department. The CM announced the humanitarian initiative at the cabinet meeting, declaring that “we will not let anyone sleep hungry in Punjab”. “Such patients can call on these numbers any time of the day or night, and will be provided cooked food at their homes by the police department, through Covid kitchens and delivery boys,” according to an official spokesperson. The department is tying up with such kitchens and delivery agents for this purpose, DGP Dinkar Gupta said. As part of the facility, which will become operational from 10am from Friday, poor Covid patients living anywhere in Punjab and lacking access to food can DIAL 181 or 112 at any time of day or night, on 24/7 basis, for delivery of cooked meals at their doorstep.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jabs-for-18-punjab-to-launch-vaccination-for-kin-of-health-workers-from-friday-101620935457747.html
14-05-2021||Chandigarh||At 29°C, Chandigarh records coldest May day in eight years||The 1mm rain and gusty winds on Thursday brought the day temperature down to 29°C, 10 degrees below normal, making it the coldest May day since 2013.According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), it was only in May 2013 last that a lower day temperature of 27.6°C was recorded. The maximum temperature in May so far had remained over 30°C, even shooting up to 37.4°C on May 9, while April 28 with a temperature of 41°C was the hottest April day in the past four years.The minimum temperature also decreased from 22.6°C to 21.4°C, one notch below normal.Hereon, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted cloudy weather over the weekend with low chances of rain.“Western disturbances are still active and will bring along clouds, but rain is unlikely. Therefore, the day temperature will start to rise from Friday onwards,” said an IMD official.Over the next three days, the maximum temperature may go up to 36°C and minimum temperature will hover around 23°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/at-29-c-chandigarh-records-coldest-may-day-in-eight-years-101620935456546.html
14-05-2021||Other||Ex-chief of gurdwara panel booked for molesting minor in Ludhiana||The former president of the management committee of Gurdwara Singh Sabha of Jassowal village has been booked for allegedly molesting a minor girl on the pretext of giving her religious education. The incident took place on May 5 on the gurdwara premises and was caught on closed-circuit television (CCTV) cameras. The current president of the gurdwara’s management committee lodged a complaint after the footage of the incident started doing the rounds of social media. Complainant Baljit Singh, the current president, said the management committee had come to know of the incident through the CCTV footage. They had summoned Jugraj for clarification but he did not appear before the panel. In the meantime, the footage went viral on social networking sites following which they lodged a complaint at Sudhar police station. Sudhar station house officer, inspector Jasvir Singh said a case under Sections 295 (injuring or defiling a place of worship with intent to insult the religion of any class) and 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty) of the Indian Penal Code has been lodged against the accused. Jugraj is currently on the run.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/exchief-of-gurdwara-panel-booked-for-molesting-minor-in-ludhiana-101620935452776.html
14-05-2021||Other||With 4,937 fresh cases, Himachal’s May tally shoots past 50K||Himachal Pradesh’s coronavirus tally for the month of May zoomed past the 50,000-mark on Thursday, with the state recording a whopping 4,937 fresh infections. The small hill-state’s total case count has reached 1,50,673. So far, 51,386 cases have been reported this month, the highest since the outbreak in March 2020. Sixty-three patients succumbed to the contagion, taking the total death toll to 2,118, making May the deadliest month as 634 people have already lost their lives in merely 13 days. The state had recorded 35,682 infections and 449 deaths in April. However, the tally was surpassed within the first fortnight of May. Of the new cases, 1,279 were reported in Kangra, 694 in Solan, 632 in Shimla, 505 in Sirmaur, 375 in Chamba, 357 in Mandi, 327 in Hamirpur, 321 in Bilaspur, 300 in Una, 86 in Kullu, 33 in Kinnaur and 30 in Lahaul-Spiti. As many as 29,193 patients have recovered in the state this month, taking the tally of recuperated people to 1,08,503. With 3,817 people discharged, the hill-state also logged the highest single-day recoveries. However, the high number of cases resulted in the recovery rate slipping to 72%.The tally of active cases shot up to 40,008. As many as 21,583 active cases were added to the tally this month—an increase of around 117%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/with-4-937-fresh-cases-himachal-s-may-tally-shoots-past-50k-101620935394102.html
14-05-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab to join COVAX facility for sourcing vaccines at best price||The Punjab government on Thursday decided to join the COVAX facility alliance for global sourcing and procurement of Covid vaccines at the best price, claiming to be the first state in the country to take the strategic initiative. The decision was taken during the cabinet meeting, which also approved the purchase of Covaxin for industrial workers, for whose vaccination, the industry has expressed willingness to pay. The state government has ordered only Covishield vaccine so far for the 18-44 age group, but with this decision, decks have been cleared to place orders for Covaxin too, according to an official spokesperson. Reviewing the vaccination status and availability in the state, the cabinet said it was necessary to source vaccine globally. Since the COVAX facility offers the best prices, the state should make an attempt to join the same for procuring vaccines from the international markets, it decided. The suggestion for joining the COVAX was given to the cabinet by Dr Gagandeep Kang, who heads the Punjab Expert Group on Vaccination. COVID-19 Vaccines Global Access, abbreviated as COVAX, is a worldwide initiative aimed at equitable access to COVID-19 vaccines directed by Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance, the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations, and the World Health Organization. Already, about a dozen states, including Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Haryana and Delhi have decided to issue or floated global tenders for procurement of Covid vaccines. In a brief presentation, health secretary Hussan Lal informed the cabinet that of the 30 lakh Covishield doses ordered by the state government, Serum Institute of India (SII) had so far confirmed 4.29 lakh, of which 1 lakh doses had been received. He said that for the 45+ age group, the last tranche of 1.63 lakh doses of Covishield was received on May 9, taking the total to 42,48,560. As many as 3,45,000 doses were given to the armed forces, while the total vaccination utilisation stood at 39,03,560, he added. For Covaxin in the 45+ category, the last tranche of vaccine was of 75,000 doses (May 6), taking the total received to 4,09,080.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-to-join-covax-facility-for-sourcing-vaccines-at-best-price-101620935273169.html
14-05-2021||Chandigarh||18+ vax: Come May 17, Himachal slots to be visible on CoWIN||With vaccination of the 18-44 age bracket starting in Himachal Pradesh on May 17, session sites and available slots will be visible for scheduling on the CoWIN portal from May 15, National Health Mission director Dr Nipun Jindal said on Thursday.Vaccination for the 18-44 age group will only be done on Monday and Thursday at dedicated sites. The sessions will be visible in the CoWIN portal two days before to each scheduled session. Initially, vaccination sessions will be held on May 17, 20, 24, 27 and 31.The state has received 1,07,620 doses of Covishield vaccine from Serum Institute of India, Pune. Beneficiaries can register themselves and schedule their appointment for vaccination on the CoWIN portal, he said, adding that no beneficiary will be entertained on the vaccination site without an appointment. Registration and scheduling of the vaccination centre and time can also be done through Arogya Setu app.Bank staff, teachers on Covid duty added to priority groups Bank employees, teachers on Covid duty, HRTC drivers and conductors have been included in the priority age group for vaccination. Fuel-pump operators, public distribution system depot holders, chemists, Lok Mitra Kendra staff, employees in Child Care Institutions and workers of the pharma Industry have also been added to the group.Beneficiaries in the priority groups must get themselves certified from the department concerned for vaccination, he said. State failed to take scientists’ warning seriously: CPIM The Communist Party of India-Marxist (CPIM) on Thursday asked the state government to make adequate preparations to combat the virus. “Scientists had forewarned that the new variant was a super spreader. It seems the government and its agencies underestimated and undermined the forewarning and instead adopted the ‘wait and watch’ approach, said CPI(M) state secretary Onkar Shad. “Preliminary analysis of the virus’ behaviour and its socio -economic impact on Himachal indicates that despite the virulent strain, the density of population in the state creates conditions ,in which spread of the virus can be kept under control,” he said. On the state’s high Covid fatality rate, Shad said factors such as delay in medical treatment, the government’s failure to trace and test the infected, an unscientific outlook, fear of being stigmatised, failure to provide uninterrupted supply of oxygen, shortage of staff and scarcity of life saving drugs were responsible.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/18-vax-come-may-17-himachal-slots-to-be-visible-on-cowin-101620935153670.html
14-05-2021||Chandigarh||Nitika Bhalla elected Moga mayor||First-time Congress councillor Nitika Bhalla, 35, was on Thursday elected as mayor of the Moga municipal corporation. Nitika is a graduate and used to teach children at a private school for the past 10 years before being elected as a councillor from ward number 5.Parveen Kumar Sharma and Ashok Dhamija were chosen as senior deputy mayor and deputy mayor, respectively.The elections for Moga MC were held on February 14 and the results were announced on February 18. Of the 50 seats, Congress had won 20 and later 10 independent candidates also joined the party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/nitika-bhalla-elected-moga-mayor-101620935152743.html
14-05-2021||Chandigarh||Covid surge: Harpal Cheema demands special Punjab assembly session||Leader of opposition and AAP MLA Harpal Singh Cheema on Thursday demanded a special session of the state assembly at the earliest to discuss the plan to deal with the second Covid-19 wave.In a statement, Cheema appealed to chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh to increase the annual budget for health services to 25% so that situation can be dealt with in a proper manner. “Despite Punjab being a rich and important state, the health facilities are in a very bad condition,” he said, expressing concern of the high mortality rate.The AAP leader said that though the state government had stopped students from coming to schools due to the coronavirus pandemic, teachers were being made to come to school which was extremely unfair. “All teachers should be stopped from coming to the school and orders should be given to them teach from their homes through the online mode,” he demanded, blaming the flawed strategy of the state government for the deteriorating situation.He said the government hospitals were facing shortage of doctors, nurses, paramedical staff as well as life-saving equipment, oxygen gas and medicines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-surge-harpal-cheema-demands-special-punjab-assembly-session-101620935032776.html
14-05-2021||Other||HP’s pharma industry in a fix amid labour, raw material shortage||With the Himachal Pradesh government reimposing lockdown to arrest the second wave of the coronavirus pandemic, pharmaceutical units in the state have yet again found themselves grappling with logistical issues, scarcity of workers, black marketeering and skyrocketing prices of raw materials and active pharmaceutical ingredients . The surging virus cases have hit the pharma hub in Himachal Pradesh’s Baddi-Barotiwala-Nalagarh (BBN) industrial area hard as the cost of raw material has trebled due to the ban on international cargo flights and delayed clearance by China, prompting pharma industry stakeholders to ask the Centre to set up a national-level task force to monitor the prices of active pharmaceutical ingredients. The issue was raised during Himachal Pradesh chief minister Jai Ram Thakur’s meeting with the captains of the pharma industry on Thursday. The industry has asked the state government to relax lockdown to facilitate enhanced production. “We are ready to bear the cost of vaccination. The government should vaccinate the entire industrial work force in Himachal,” said Rajesh Gupta, president, Himachal Pradesh Drug Manufacturers’ Association (HDMA). Industrialists have asked the government to ply buses in industrial areas of Himachal bring back workers. They said that they were willing to bear double the transportation cost for its workforce. Known as ‘Asia’s pharma hub’, due to the large number of pharmaceutical units in the hill-state, Himachal had produced a major chunk of the 50 million hydroxychloroquine tablets shipped to the United States of America during the first wave. Amid nationwide shortage of health infrastructure, Thakur urged the industry to set up manufacturing units for medical equipment such as oxygen concentrators and vylinders. Additional chief secretary industries Ram Subhag Singh said ESI Hospital, Kala Amb, will be inaugurated at the earliest. He said construction of the 220 KV substation at Kala Amb in Sirmour district will also start soon.Director-cum-commissioner industries Hansraj Sharma said, “So far, the state government for ensuring the industry’s production goes uninterrupted.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hps-pharma-industry-in-a-fix-amid-labour-raw-material-shortage-101620934972916.html
14-05-2021||Chandigarh||To check misuse of oxygen, Chandigarh begins auditing hospitals||As the demand for oxygen in the city goes up and reports of misuse of medical oxygen pour in, the UT administration has started audits of all private hospitals being provided oxygen from Chandigarh’s quota.The action comes after UT officials discovered that some private facilities were consuming excess quantity of oxygen, with one private hospital reportedly using as many as 400 cylinders per day.Senior doctors from government hospitals had observed that it was almost impossible to consume such a quantity even if all the patients were on ventilators. For managing medical oxygen supply in the UT, they said the consumption of each private hospital will be examined with regard to its capacity and beds reserved for Covid patients.The central government has fixed Chandigarh’s daily quota of medical oxygen at 20 metric tonnes (MT), to be utilised for Government Medical College and Hospital at Sector 32, Government Multi-Speciality Hospital at Sector 16 and the Covid hospital at Sector 48. Private healthcare institutions are also being catered to from this quota. The private facilities are mostly dependent on medical oxygen through cylinders. These are also used in ambulances and while shifting the patients from one ward to another. The nodal officer for oxygen in Chandigarh, Yashpal Garg, in the orders issued for the oxygen audit, said, “Considering acute shortage of oxygen, the distribution of oxygen cylinders has been rationalised and a daily quota has been fixed for each of the private hospitals.”Accordingly, private hospitals have to share information regarding the number of beds and oxygen cylinders procured by them from approved private vendors.Garg has directed the hospitals to provide the information for the period between April 1 and May 5 within three days.Further, a PCS officer, Jagjit Singh, has been assigned the charge to coordinate with the hospitals regarding availability of beds and oxygen supply.The administration has also decided that a team of senior doctors from GMCH-32 and GMSH-16 will visit private and government hospitals to educate and sensitise them on optimum utilisation of oxygen. Garg said a team led by Jagjit Singh on Wednesday had visited Landmark Hospital, Mukat Hospital and Healing Hospital. On Thursday, the team visited the City/Apollo Hospital, Kare Partners Hospital and Santokh Hospital. On May 14, the team is scheduled to visit the Eden Hospital. Next week, the team will also visit the mini Covid care centres and government hospitals, said Garg.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/to-check-misuse-of-oxygen-chandigarh-begins-auditing-hospitals-101620934912619.html
14-05-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab logs 184 more Covid deaths, 8,494 new cases||Punjab on Thursday reported 184 more Covid-related fatalities taking the death toll to 11,297. The infection tally in the state reached 4,75,949 with 8,494 people testing positive for the virus, according to a medical bulletin released by the state government. Ludhiana and Sangrur districts alone reported 48 deaths. The state also registered the highest single-day recoveries with 8,237 people being discharged from hospitals, taking the number of those cured to 3,84,702. The number of active cases dropped from 79,963 on Wednesday to 79,950. Twenty-five deaths were reported from Ludhiana, 23 from Sangrur, 17 from Patiala, 15 from Muktsar, 12 from Bathinda and 10 each from Amritsar, Fazilka and Jalandhar. Ludhiana, which continues to register the maximum number of cases in the state, reported 1,335 infections, followed by 991 in Mohali, 877 in Bathinda and 577 in Jalandhar, among daily fresh cases. There are 429 critical Covid patients who are on ventilator support while 9,619 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said. A total of 80,01,745 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, it said. The state’s positivity rate on Thursday was 12.85%. Mohali with 24.65% of positivity rate topped the list, followed by 22.21% in Mansa, 21.09% in Bathinda, 16.85% in Faridkot, 16.13% in Kapurthala and 14.60% and 14.16% in Ferozepur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-logs-184-more-covid-deaths-8-494-new-cases-101620934852656.html
14-05-2021||Chandigarh||All ICU beds occupied in Faridkot medical college||While 85 ventilators are non-functional at Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital (GGSMCH), Faridkot, all level-3 beds (for critical patients) are occupied. With the 450-bed isolation facility, the GGSMCH is providing care to critical Covid patients from Bathinda, Mansa, Muktsar, Moga, Ferozepur, Fazilka and Faridkot districts. As per official bed occupancy list, all the 272 level-3 Intensive care unit (ICU) beds, including 52 ICU beds with ventilators are occupied. Of the 176 total level-2 beds, 104 are occupied. On Thursday, Faridkot reported four Covid deaths and 273 new cases, taking the active cases to over 1,793 in the district.Of 88 ventilators received under the PM Cares Fund and five through AvGa, 90 lifesaving machines were found non-functional at Faridkot hospital on Thursday. Only five lifesaving machines were rectified on Thursday by an engineer of a private company entrusted with repairing work. Dr Shilekh Mittal, medical superintendent, GGSMCH, said that due to the spike in Covid cases, they are treating maximum level-3 patients. “Right now, all the ventilators are occupied but engineers are working to repair the ones. We are facing shortage of level-3 beds as we are receiving critical patients from nine districts,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/all-icu-beds-occupied-in-faridkot-medical-college-101620934732802.html
14-05-2021||Chandigarh||Shamlat land illegal occupation: Govt losing ₹20 cr yearly as 9,500 acres encroached in Doaba, Majha, says report||The government seems to have turned a blind eye towards illegal occupation of 9,500 acres of shamlat land (village common land) in eight districts of Doaba and Majha regions, which fall under the Jalandhar division. In Punjab, there is around 1.70 lakh acres of shamlat land. The Doaba region has four districts of Jalandhar, Hoshiarpur, Kapurthala and Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar, while Majha has Amritsar, Tarn Taran, Gurdaspur and Pathankot districts. HT accessed a report compiled by collector, panchayat lands, and divisional deputy director of Jalandhar division, Jagwinderjit Singh Sandhu, which says around 9,500 acres of shamlat land worth ₹2,000 crore is under encroachment with the “connivance” of rural and panchayat development department officials. The report underlines a loss of at least ₹20 crore per annum to the exchequer vis a vis if the government had leased it out as per rules. The report was submitted to additional chief secretary of the department Seema Jain in March this year. Among the eight districts, highest 4,000 acres were encroached in Kapurthala, 1,426 acres in Jalandhar, 1,044 in Amritsar, 926 in Gurdaspur, 701 in Hoshiarpur, 646 in Tarn Taran, 534 in Shaheed Bhagat Singh and 137 in Pathankot districts. On May 12, Sandhu wrote to district development and panchayat officers of Jalandhar, Kapurthala, Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar, Amritsar, Tarn Taran and Gurdaspur, highlighting that around 1,800 acres of common land in their respective districts was under encroachment due to the connivance of department officials. He also directed that in case the encroached land is not auctioned this year or case not filed for removal of encroachment in the collector court, panchayat officers’ responsibility will be fixed. “You are directed to vacate the encroached shamlat land and any delay will be taken as serious lapse,” says the letter. Rural development and panchayat department, director, Manpreet Singh Chattwal, said, “We have directed all our field officers to vacate the encroached panchayat land. We have removed encroachments from panchayat land in almost every block of the state. We have been doing mapping of the panchayat land across the state and will build a consolidated database of the common land.” Additional chief secretary Seema Jain said she has formed a committee under the divisional deputy director of the department, Jalandhar, to examine encroachments and prepare a report within two months. “We will take action on the basis of the report after the approval of rural development minister,” she said, adding the committee will also keep the Punjab and Haryana high court order in mind as per which no eviction can take place till June 30. Rural development minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa said the department vacated a large number of encroachments which led to hike in the revenue of the department. Bikkar Singh, general secretary of Zameen Prapti Sangharsh Committee, said a lobby of politicians, officials and influential people didn’t want encroachments removed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/shamlat-land-illegal-occupation-govt-losing-20-cr-yearly-as-9-500-acres-encroached-in-doaba-majha-says-report-101620934493810.html
14-05-2021||Chandigarh||508 oxygen cylinders seized from Ambala factory||The district administration seized 305 filled and 203 empty commercial oxygen cylinders from a factory in Mandour village of Ambala on Wednesday night, the police said.Nodal officer for O2 supply in homes, Gauri Midha, said the unit that manufactures heavy equipment for construction of railway overbridges were using O2 for industrial purposes.On taking legal action against the owners, Midha said, “The cylinders were seized and will be used to supply oxygen for infected patients. We’ve submitted a report to the deputy commissioner and he will take a call on any possible legal action.”As per a government order, such cylinders will only be used for medical services till further notice. Last week, 33 such empty cylinders were seized from a small industrial unit in the Cantt area, but no legal action was taken.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/508-oxygen-cylinders-seized-from-ambala-factory-101620934492749.html
14-05-2021||Lucknow||All in a day: 58,000 book slots,10,000 skip jabs in Uttar Pradesh||The beneficiaries not turning up at Covid-19 vaccination centres after booking slots on the CoWin portal for their jabs have added to the worries of the Uttar Pradesh health and family welfare department.As many as 58,000 people in the age group of 18-44 years registered on the CoWin portal for the vaccination drive organised in 18 districts of Uttar Pradesh on Wednesday but only 48,000 of them turned up to get the shot against Covid-19 while 10,000 stayed away, said a health department official.The doses were dispatched to the vaccination centres according to the number of registrations.Additional chief secretary (health and family welfare) Amit Mohan Prasad said after the second wave, a large number of people wished to get the Covid vaccine to protect themselves and their family members from infection. Many of those who registered on the portal and did not turn up were denying others the chance to get the vaccine. “Medical experts have made it clear that vaccine builds immunity. Even if a person gets infected after getting the dose, the recovery is fast,” he said.With the launch of the vaccination drive for the people in the age group of 18-44 years on May 1, 2.16 lakh people have received jabs in 18 districts of UP so far. The state government has procured three lakh doses of Covaxin and another 3.50 lakh doses of Covishield. The state government is likely to get extra doses from Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech and Pune-based Serum Institute of India on Friday (May 14). The drive for 18+ people will be extended in the remaining districts next week, he said.Director general (Family Welfare) Dr Rakesh Dubey said misconception was being spread on the social media regarding the Covid vaccine even though top medical experts had made it clear that it was safe and the only weapon to fight the Covid-19 infection.“It seems that due to misleading information spread on the social media, young people are shying away from vaccination even after booking slots on the portal. The state government has launched a mass awareness about the utility of the vaccine,” he said.The slowdown in vaccination has been also witnessed among the beneficiaries above 45 years of age after the start of the second wave. Several beneficiaries are not turning up after booking the slot on the portal.Till early April, on average three lakh vaccine doses were given to the beneficiaries daily in the state. On April 12, a record five lakh jabs were given in 75 districts. On April 21, Uttar Pradesh crossed the 1 crore vaccination tally with 92.44 lakh people getting the first dose and 16.89 lakh people receiving the second dose till then. The data released by the health and family welfare department indicates a slump in the daily dose from 3 lakh to 1.50 lakh to 2 lakh doses. Till May 12, a total 1.40 crore people have received the jab in the state. While 1.11 crore got the first dose, 29.35 lakh people received the second one too, said a health and family welfare department officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/58000-book-slots-10-000-skip-jabs-in-up-101620934432028.html
14-05-2021||Chandigarh||Jammu’s oxygen infrastructure to be audited, augmented||Amid spiraling coronavirus fatalities across the Jammu region, the Jammu and Kashmir government has said that it will augment the oxygen generation infrastructure in the division. Apart from the recently commissioned oxygen generation plants, many units are already being installed at different hospitals across Jammu province, an official said, adding that amid the increased demand and augmented capacities, authorities have started a comprehensive audit of oxygen requirement, supplies and availability. 15K LPM plants for GMCH Jammu Secretary tribal affairs and Covid in-charge of containment efforts in Jammu province, Dr Shahid Iqbal Choudhary said the government has sanctioned 15,000 LPM capacity oxygen generation plants for Government Medical College, Jammu, and its associated hospitals against which 6,100 LPM capacity plants have been commissioned in the last two weeks and a letter of intent (LOI) has been issued for 2,500 LPM capacity plants while efforts are on to procure units of other capacities as well. In Samba, Rajouri and Reasi, oxygen generation plants of 1200 LPM, 3000 LPM and 1200 LPM capacities have been approved against which an installation of 1,000 LPM each had been commissioned last week. In Doda, installation of an 750 LPM plant is underway and additional capacity of 2250LPM will be augmented. In Kishtwar, a letter of intent has been issued for 1,500 LPM capacity whereas in Ramban, installation of 1,000 LPM plant has been initiated and a letter of intent issued for another 500 LPM plant. A 2,250 LPM oxygen generation plant has been installed in Kathua while a letter of intent has been issued for installation of two oxygen plants at Poonch and Mandi of 2,200 LPM and 2,00 LPM, respectively. In Udhampur, a 1,000 LPM plant is under installation and letter of intent has been issued for another 2,000 LPM. Chief engineer MED Naresh Khajuria along with technical team are making efforts to ensure timely commission of oxygen generation plants. Dr Choudhary said the oxygen audit will help to peg the requirement at maximum bed capacity of hospitals, corresponding oxygen supply needed, availability of oxygen generation plants, oxygen cylinders and concentrators. The oxygen war room working under supervision of Jammu director industries and commerce, Jammu, Anu Malhotra is operating round-the-clock to ensure minimising turn around of cylinder refill and rushing the supplies to hospitals with equal focus on hospitals in far flung areas. 800 more O2 supported beds added in Jammu The government has added nearly 800 more oxygen supported beds in Jammu in a week to augment the existing bed capacity, as a part of ongoing capacity building of hospitals in wake of rising cases of Covid-19 reported over the last month. Meanwhile, bed capacity in two major private hospitals has been increased by 60 beds. There are now 3,283 oxygen supported beds in Jammu. Lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha 6 had set a target of bed capacity enhancement of 1,325 beds, of which 800 has been achieved in a week. As many as 148 beds have been added to Government Medical College, 34 to GMC Kathua, 80 to GMC Doda, 30 to GMC Rajouri, 438 to hospitals managed by the directorate of health services, 30 to ASCOMS Sidhra, 30 to Narayana hospital Katra. Ventilators lying unused in rural areas being sent back to GMCH Jammu Ventilators given to Jammu and Kashmir under the PM CARES Fund, which have been gathering dust in rural hospitals, will now be brought to Government Medical College and Hospital, Jammu for optimum utilisation. Balvinder Singh, a social activist said J&K had received around 400 ventilators under PM CARES Fund and most of them were sent to community health centres, primary health centres and sub district hospitals despite knowing that these institutions do not have the required infrastructure to install these ventilators and make them functional. To run ventilators 24x7 electricity, interrupted oxygen supply, trained technicians and at least two anaesthetists are required. The managing director of Jammu and Kashmir Medical Supplies Corporation Dr Yashpal Sharma has now issued instructions to the health directors to send such unused ventilators from peripheral institutions in rural areas to the government medical college and hospital in Jammu. Since Wednesday around 35 ventilators from rural areas have been sent to GMCH Jammu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jammus-oxygen-infrastructure-to-be-audited-augmented-101620934372705.html
14-05-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: A tree in the temple||This small Hanuman temple stands in a sprawling yard here in south Delhi. A peepal tree’s sharp-tipped leaves make a jungle of shadows on the temple’s back wall.But the compound has another peepal, a larger one, and more luscious, in the front. Its branches soar above the fourth floor windows of adjacent buildings. It would take at least three people to embrace the trunk completely.This morning the yard is empty. A woman enters. She is wearing a green sari, and an orange mask. Her head is modestly covered by the sari’s pallu. The woman takes off her slippers and, instead of heading inside the temple, she turns towards the front yard peepal. She climbs on to the small cement platform built around the tree. The woman is carrying a small kamandal (cup), filled with water, in one hand, and two agarbattis (incense sticks) in the other. She brings her palms together, bows her head, and murmurs an inaudible prayer. Now she reverently pours the water out of the kamandal by the trunk, lights the agarbattis and tucks them at the base of the tree.“I’m a housewife,” the woman says. Introducing herself as Sunita, she talks of her husband, a priest in a temple nearby. Turning her gaze towards the tree, she cranes her head upwards, as if surveying the thicket of leaves. “Peepal is sacred... I come here every morning for pooja (prayer).” She gestures towards the several red kaleva threads wound about the trunk. Falling quiet for a few moments, she speaks again: “Trees give oxygen.” The fact that so many people in the city have died of Covid due to the shortage of oxygen in the hospitals goes unsaid, but it seems to lurk in the very air.The woman now enters the temple.Meanwhile, the sun’s rays shoot through the tree, get entangled in the dense foliage, and break into several zigzagging streams of light.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-a-tree-in-the-temple-101620934098569.html
14-05-2021||Other||Blood banks’ stock depleting as camps, donations see marked decrease||Blood banks in the state capital are left with limited stock as blood donation camps and voluntary donations have witnessed a marked decrease amid the second wave of the pandemic. For instance, the state blood bank at King George’s Medical University (KGMU) has only about 700 units left with it against a normal stock of between 2,500 to 3,000. Due to the lack of stock, KGMU is issuing nearly 60 units of blood per day these days. Normally, it gives between 200 and 250 units of blood every day. “Voluntary blood donation and camps have gown down considerably. In fact, there have been no camps after the first week of April while there are only a few voluntary donations per week these days,” said prof Tulika Chandra, HoD, transfusion medicine, KGMU.At Syama Prasad Mukherjee (Civil) hospital, there were only 22 units of blood as opening stock on Thursday morning while at Dr Ram Manohar Lohia Institute of Medical Sciences, the stock was below 300 units against the normal stock of at least over 700 units.Experts say blood donation is safe and can be done by all healthy people. “By donating blood, you get yourself checked for various disorders. From hepatitis to HIV, all infections are checked in the donated blood while it saves lives as blood components such as plasma, platelets, RBC are separated and issued for different patients,” said Dr Sandeep Kapoor, director, Healthcity hospital.“At the Lucknow Nursing Home Association blood bank, the present stock is 412 against the normal stock of 650 units,” said Dr Anoop Agrawal of the nursing home cell of IMA.“Voluntary blood donation is key to maintaining good stock in the blood bank as replacement donors (who come and donate to get one unit blood or blood component in exchange) do not add to stock and in some exchange donors the blood has to be discarded due to infection. Majority voluntary donors are healthy,” said prof Chandra. Also, blood is donated to the destitute and pregnant women without exchange.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/blood-banks-stock-depleting-as-camps-donations-see-marked-decrease-101620934011984.html
14-05-2021||Other||Record 1031.43 MT of oxygen supplied in UP||A record 1031.43 metric tonne (MT) of oxygen was supplied to medical colleges, hospitals and oxygen refilling centres across UP in the last 24 hours.National Institution for Transforming India (NITI) Ayog lauded UP model of oxygen supply. In a tweet, the NITI Ayog said, “The Uttar Pradesh government has established oxygen hubs and developed dashboard–Oxytracker through which tankers can be tracked in real time. This allows quick and smart allocation of oxygen. The result is that 1,000 MT of oxygen has been lifted instead of 250 MT before.”Giving this information, additional chief secretary, home, Awanish Kumar Awasthi, who is monitoring the oxygen supply across the state from the control room set up in the home department, said with the sudden spike in Covid cases, the state government started working to stabilise the situation as quickly as possible and stop it from getting worse.“Oxygen being one of the most critical elements for clinical treatment had to be managed at a war footing. The state government focused on the most important metric-location of assets and managing the movement of assets to carry as much oxygen as possible with an underlying focus on optimisation,” he said on Thursday.Within 24 hours, the state government activated the teams all over the state and other sourcing states like Jharkhand, West Bengal, Odisha to intercept the trucks carrying oxygen cylinders, deployed an application that was downloaded on smart phones which were placed in each truck without disturbing its ongoing route for live locations. The GPS device was not used as it would have taken four days to install it and would have meant loss of lives at an exponential scale, he said.Uttar Pradesh worked on stealth approach- speed and scale. Key macro decisions were taken to deploy the rail network to bring oxygen supplies from the eastern states to UP and airlift empty cylinders with the help of the Indian Air Force, using airports located at Agra, Hindon and Lucknow for refilling, Awasthi added.The information of oxygen supply was fed into live dashboard which displayed all the trucks carrying oxygen and helped the decision makers address the allocation gap smartly and swiftly to stabilise the firefight for the oxygen supply, real time information on tankers and their movement being the most critical element of the oxygen supply chain was displayed using the dashboard. The dashboard called Oxytracker was used to visually flag the efficiency of the entire fleet with one sweep of the eye, he said.The UP government created five major hubs in UP— Modinagar, Agra, Kanpur, Lucknow and Varanasi— as primary hubs while Gorakhpur and Bareilly were developed as secondary hubs for optimising the entire oxygen supply chain, Awasthi added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/record-1031-43-mt-of-oxygen-supplied-in-up-101620933772548.html
14-05-2021||Chandigarh||Of 4,500 inmates in J&K jails, 23 have tested positive||JAMMUAmid the raging coronavirus pandemic, Jammu and Kashmir has 4,572 inmates lodged in 13 jails, of which 23 have tested positive for the virus. Outgoing DG (prisons)VK Singh said, “Among them 21 are in Kathua district jail, one in Central Jail, Kotbhalwal and one in District Jail Jammu. Necessary medical care is being provided to them.” “At present, 635 inmates are lodged in Central Jail, Srinagar, which includes 27 female inmates. There are no Covid positive cases in the prison,” he said, directing the staff to ensure strict adherence to standard operating procedures to prevent spread of Covid. Singh said, “At present, 219 inmates are under quarantine in prisons across J&K as new prisoners undergo mandatory Covid testing and quarantine for 14 days.” Last year, after a high-powered panel was formed by the Supreme Court to depopulate prisons in view the pandemic, the Jammu and Kashmir prison authorities had released 20 inmates on special parole. “The parole continues. It was extended for eight weeks and we are into seventh and eighth week,” said Singh. DIG Prisons Sultan Lone said, “We have 22 asymptomatic and one symptomatic Covid inmates.” Inoculation to start soon “Initially, there was confusion over inoculating prisoners across India because Aadhaar Cards are mandatory to get the jab. However, the Centre intervened and now they can be inoculated without them. We have written to the state immunisation officer Dr Saleem-ur-Rehman. They will not be taken anywhere and will be inoculated in the prisons,” said Lone. Rehman said though the prisons are overcrowded, all possible measures have been initiated in view of the pandemic. In the Hiranagar sub-jail, which is holding centre for illegal Rohingya immigrants, all 221 inmates have tested negative. Release political prisoners: CPI (M) CPI (M) leader Mohamad Yousuf Tarigami on Tuesday said that Kashmiri political prisoners lodged in various jails within and outside the Valley must be released as unprecedented surge in Covid-19 cases across the country has put their lives in congested jails at risk. Supreme Court recently directed the high-powered committees to consider release of new prisoners by adopting the guidelines of the National Legal Services Authority to decongest jails. Hundreds of Kashmiri prisoners, including some teenagers are languishing in jails within and outside J&K for years now. Health conditions of some Kashmiri prisoners, lodged in Tihar and other jails outside the Valley, have deteriorated in recent times and if they are not released it could prove fatal for them due to rising virus cases. Some of them are aged and suffer from multiple ailments. In the absence of proper medical assistance, these prisoners feel helpless and are in distress. It would be prudent to release all prisoners, at least on parole, keeping in view the alarming situation due to Covid-19. There are also prisoners who have minor offences against them and whose detention order has been quashed multiple times by the courts. The Government has failed to prove charges against several people arrested under the Public Safety Act (PSA) and other such laws. They should be released.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/of-4-500-inmates-in-j-k-jails-23-have-tested-positive-101620933713210.html
14-05-2021||Mumbai||Reconsider rule of negative Covid report for drivers: Transporters body to Maharashtra govt||Transporters have written to Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray asking to reconsider the guidelines of a compulsory negative RT-PCR report for drivers travelling from outside the state.Citing the guideline as impractical, the body has stated that the compulsion of negative RT-PCR test would lead to delay in transport of essential commodities including oxygen concentrators, medicines, oxygen tankers and fast-moving consumer goods (FMCG) goods.The Maharashtra government under its BreakTheChain guidelines have stated that cargo carriers originating from outside the state will be allowed only after they produce a negative RT-PCR test, which is issued up to a maximum of 48 hours.“In the case of cargo carriers, not more than two people (driver + cleaner/ helper) may be allowed to travel in the same. If these cargo carriers are originating from outside the state, these may be allowed to enter into the state with a negative RT-PCR test, which will have to be issued from up to a maximum of 48 hours before the time of entry into Maharashtra and which will be valid for 7 days.” mentions the guidelines.All India Motor Transport Congress (AIMTC) has stated that the RT-PCR report takes 48 hours and cargo between Delhi takes 72 hours to reach Maharashtra.“The provision must be revisited and rectified in all practicality. It would have been prudent if a rapid antigen facility is created at border check-posts free of cost. It must also be ensured that waiting time at the border check-posts is not more than two-three hours. Adequate facilities for food and water are provided for drivers at the borders and they are given hospitable treatment by the officials.” said Bal Malkit Singh, chairman, AIMTC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/reconsider-rule-of-negative-covid-report-for-drivers-transporters-body-to-maharashtra-govt-101620933471928.html
14-05-2021||Mumbai||Second Covid vaccine dose: Maharashtra govt’s first priority||A day after announcing the suspension of the Covid-19 vaccination drive for the 18-44 age group, Maharashtra inoculated 338,400 people above 45 years on Thursday, as it prioritised administering the second doses for beneficiaries. Amid the delay in supply of doses by the Centre and manufacturers, not only has the inoculation of younger citizens been halted, but it has slowed down for those above 45 years. Of the 338,400 people inoculated on Thursday, 210,040 got their second dose, while 128,360 were given their first shot. The state government on Wednesday suspended the drive for the 18-44 age group, so as to divert the jab to the second doses for those above 45. The state government diverted the vaccines it purchased for the 18-44 age group due to the shortage of vaccines supplied by the Centre for beneficiaries above 45 years.Health minister Rajesh Tope said on Thursday the state has requested the Centre for more vaccines. “We have more than 2 million people due for their second doses. We have diverted around 1 million doses, including 300,000 procured by the state for 18-44 years category, to enable the second dose within the stipulated time. We expect the Centre to supply the additional stock of 1 million doses to make up for the diversion and also supply additional 1 million to ensure inoculation of people waiting for their second shot,” he said. He said the state was not complaining about the short supply by the Centre as they are aware about non-availability of vaccines. “But we expect better management of the jabs by the centre by monitoring the due period of the beneficiaries. The responsibility of providing adequate stock of the vaccine for second doses of 45-plus beneficiaries lies with the Centre. We do not want to politicise the issue, but putting facts in the public domain is necessary,” he said.The health minister said that not only Maharashtra, but even Karnataka, too, was compelled to suspend the third phase drive (18-44 years age group).Though the state government has decided to give priority to the second dose for those above 45 years, many districts administered first doses to the people in the category. “Maharashtra is expected to receive another stock of more than 500,000 doses in a day or two, till which we have stock that can last for two more days. As the Centre has now extended the period of second dose of Covishield to 12-16 weeks from 6-8 weeks, we expect demand for the second jab to reduce a bit,” said an official from the health department. Dr DN Patil, state immunisation officer, said, “About 80% of the doses were used for the second doses for 45+ citizens today. In the next two days, we will further reduce the percentage of inoculation for first dose. Once we get the stock, we can think of resumption of inoculation for the 18-44 age group.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/second-covid-vaccine-dose-maharashtra-govt-s-first-priority-101620933351919.html
14-05-2021||Mumbai||Protect doctors, staff from assault by kin of Covid patients: HC tells Maharashtra govt||The Bombay high court (HC) on Thursday directed the state to furnish details of first information reports (FIR) registered against persons who were guilty of assaulting doctors and other staff amid the ongoing pandemic. The court held it was the responsibility of society and authorities to protect the doctors and other medical service providers who are working tirelessly. The bench also noted that doctors and medical staff should not be made scapegoats for lack of drugs or oxygen not being supplied by authorities.A division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni, while hearing public interest litigation (PIL) filed by Dr Rajeev Joshi through advocate Nitin Deshpande, was informed of instances of assault on doctors by the kin of patients. The petition stated that Maharashtra witnessed a maximum number of such instances of violence and the government had failed to implement legal provisions including those under Maharashtra Medical Service Person and Medical Service Institution Act, 2010 to curb such incidents.“We have to protect doctors, and medical services providers at this hour, especially when they are tirelessly working for us under stress. As a responsible state, we will fail in our duty if we do not protect them... It is of paramount interest. They are saving society,” observed the bench. Additional public prosecutor Dr FR Shaikh for the state submitted that in cases of relatives or acquaintances of patients assaulting doctors and hospital staff the provisions of the 2010 Act and Indian Penal Code were being applied. The court then asked the state government to comply with the assurance given to the HC in 2016 regarding providing police protection in hospitals and installing CCTV surveillance and directed the state government to inform it about the status of its implementation. The bench also asked the association of doctors and medical consultants to give their suggestions for proper implementation of the said legal provisions and asked the government to respond by May 18.Meanwhile, the court while hearing a PIL filed by Lokshahiwadi Balasaheb Sarode Smriti Prabodhan Upakram through advocates Asim Sarode and Ajinkya Udane which sought proper disposal of medical waste was informed that the state should also be directed to provide special masks for speech and audio impaired people for their identification. The bench then directed the state government to ensure that all district collectors and municipal commissioners observed the proper implementation of disposal of medical waste from Covid-19 related treatment across all hospitals in Maharashtra. The bench stressed the need for authorities to strictly abide by the guidelines issued by the Central Pollution Control Board with regards to the disposal of medical wastes. The HC also directed the authorities to formulate a system for the distribution of special masks for speech and audio impaired persons as well as pavement dwellers after the petitioner informed that while the state has claimed that it has arranged for such special masks, there was no distribution system in place. The bench also suggested that it is the right time to implement the Anti-begging Act, to prevent the spread of coronavirus and provide rehabilitation to the beggars.Further hearing of the PILs will take place on May 19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/protect-doctors-staff-from-assault-by-kin-of-covid-patients-hc-tells-maharashtra-govt-101620933291926.html
14-05-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai civic body plans to allot ward wise jab centres to residents||To smoothen the vaccination process, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has planned to allot vaccination centres to potential beneficiaries, as per their respective civic wards. This, officials said, will help in evenly dispersing the crowd and eliminating serpentine queues outside large vaccination centres. However, this plan will be implemented only after the civic body can procure an adequate number of vials. Civic officials also said ward-wise booking of slots for vaccination will continue via the Co-WIN app, the modalities for which, are yet to be decided.Decentralising immunisation will benefit citizens like 49-year-old Sujata Shah, who travelled 23kms from her home in Borivli to the BKC jumbo centre, to get her second jab, as she couldn’t book a slot at a nearby vaccination centre on the Co-WIN app. She got her first jab at HCG Hospital, Borivli last month. But when she tried to get her second dose, the hospital ran out of vials, which left her with no option but to choose the jumbo centre.“It was my sixth week from the time I took my first shot, so I had to get the second jab at the earliest. Also, as I am a diabetic, I didn’t want to miss my second jab. I ended up spending ₹800 on commute just to get the second vaccine,” said Shah.But not everyone can afford to spend large amounts on the commute to get the vaccine. Additionally, due to the unavailability of vials, people often have to run from one vaccination centre to another, which are kilometres away, despite having an appointment. The differently-abled and bed-ridden patients are most affected.On May 10, Tanmay Roy, 57, had to book an ambulance to ferry his 88-year-old paralysed father from Malad to get him inoculated at Dahisar Jumbo Centre.“I could have taken him to BKC Jumbo Centre but his doctor suggested to get him inoculated at Dahisar Jumbo Centre which remains less crowded. Due to his health condition, he is extremely vulnerable to contracting the infection, so we had to be careful,” he said.Every day, hundreds of probable beneficiaries are facing a similar plight to get immunised in the city. Taking cognisance of the inconvenience that is being caused, the public health department has chalked out a plan to start ward-wise immunisation of their respective residents.“We are planning to allot vaccination centres according to the wards. This will help lessen the burden on other big centres. But to do so, we need to have an adequate number of vials to distribute it among all the 26 wards,” said Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner, BMC.At present, BMC has 146 vaccination centres across the city. But most of the centres either have an inadequate number of vials or slots for jabs that aren’t available on the centralised Co-WIN app.For instance, Preeti Nihalani booked a slot for her 60-year-old mother at Tata Memorial Hospital for Thursday. But later, she got a message about its cancellation.The BMC on Wednesday floated an expression of interest (EOI) to procure 10 million vaccine doses from vaccine manufacturers abroad. The decision was taken by the civic body on Monday to speed up the vaccination process.“It is a good suggestion to allot vaccination centres ward-wise to its residents. But, BMC will also have to ensure that each of the wards has an adequate number of vials. Otherwise, it may further aggravate the public fury against the corporation if they notice any partiality in the distribution of the vials,” said Dr Sanjay Pattiwar, public health expert.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-civic-body-plans-to-allot-ward-wise-jab-centres-to-residents-101620933171916.html
14-05-2021||Mumbai||As bed vacancy goes up, patients from other cities, states travel to Mumbai for Covid-19 treatment||As bed availability in the city has gone up with a decline in daily positivity rate, the city has recorded a rise in the number of Covid-19 patients from other cities and states.According to Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) officials, this is due to the shortage of beds in many states, especially in Northern India.Earlier, of the total patients admitted, 10%-20% were outsiders (non-residents of Mumbai). However, this number has now gone up to 30% with an increase in bed availability, BMC officials said.As per the BMC data, the bed availability ratio was 22% in dedicated Covid hospitals and centres, as of April 7. The availability ratio for intensive care unit (ICU) beds was 6%, 20% for oxygenated beds and 4.95% for ventilators, as of April 7. This went up to 46% vacancy in dedicated Covid hospitals and centres, 10% in ICU beds, 44.94% oxygenated beds and 5.49% in case of ventilators, as of May 12. In this period, there was a significant jump in the capacity of overall beds in dedicated Covid hospitals and centres followed by ICU beds, oxygenated beds and ventilators.Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner, said, “Mumbai has witnessed the trend of non-resident citizens getting admitted in Mumbai since the start of the pandemic. In this, Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) tops, wherein citizens from Thane, Navi Mumbai, Kalyan etc are admitted. But infected patients from within and outside states have also been flying to Mumbai for admission, and the inflow has increased by around 10%.Kakani added, “Earlier, we had 10% to 20% patients, from outside Mumbai, admitted in city hospitals, now that figure has gone up to 30%. Among this, many also prefer civic-run SevenHills Hospital.” Further, Bombay Hospital in south Mumbai has also seen an increase in the number of Covid patients coming from outside Mumbai. Dr Gautam Bhansali from Bombay Hospital said, “We are seeing patients coming to Mumbai via air ambulance as there is a shortage of beds in their hometowns. I have got two patients who flew via air ambulance from Delhi two days ago as they were not getting a bed there. I have a patient who came from Jodhpur and got admitted to Bombay Hospital. Apart from this, within the state, too, we see those infected with Covid flying to Mumbai via air ambulance. We are going to treat a patient tomorrow who is arriving from Jalgaon.” The city has over 85,000 beds that include isolation beds in quarantine centres, ICU beds, oxygen beds, ventilators and normal beds in dedicated Covid hospitals and centres.Meanwhile, on Thursday the city reported 1,952 cases and 68 deaths. The city reported a daily positivity rate of 6.31% as 30,884 tests were reported on Thursday. With this, the city’s tally has gone up to 683,185 and death toll has reached 14,040. The city’s fatality rate is 2.05% and recovery rate is 92% with 630,900 recoveries. There are 36,338 active cases in the city. Dharavi — city’s former hot spot — reported nine cases on Thursday, taking its total case count to 6,662.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/as-bed-vacancy-goes-up-patients-from-other-cities-states-travel-to-mumbai-for-covid-19-treatment-101620933111909.html
14-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Maratha community hopeful after Centre files review petition||The decision of filing a review petition in the Supreme Court (SC) has revived the hopes of the members of Maratha community. Maratha community outfits have welcomed the step by the Centre, which has filed a review petition in the SC challenging its verdict over the 102nd Constitutional amendment saying that the amendment has done away with the powers of the state concerning the reservation.“If the top court accepts the Centre’s stand that the power is still with the state, it will open a window for the revival of the reservation. The five-judge bench had quashed the reservation questioning the Gaikwad commission report and also upheld Indra Sawhney judgment’s spirit of not crossing 50% of the cap on the reservation. The report can be still be revised and the reservation can always be accommodated within 50% limit if the SC rules that states have powers. The review petition is a great sigh of relief for us,” said Virendra Pawar of Maratha Kranti Morcha.Public works department minister and head of the cabinet sub-committee on Maratha reservation Ashok Chavan has demanded that the Centre should also file a review petition in SC for its verdict on 50% cap. “To save the reservations given by many states by crossing the limit of 50%, the ruling on Indra Sawhney verdict too should be challenged. The Centre should file a review petition over it too. We had pleaded with the Centre on both these aspects even before the final hearing on the reservation began. We are happy that the review petition has come immediately after chief minister Uddhav Thackeray-led delegation of Maharashtra government met the Governor on Tuesday,” he said.Leader of Opposition and former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis said, “The Centre had time and again clarified that the state government’s powers to give reservation were intact and had said this in SC too. The review petition is a reiteration of the stand. A two-judge bench had earlier admitted the stand by the Centre. I am happy that the Central government moved a review petition,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-maratha-community-hopeful-after-centre-files-review-petition-101620932932664.html
14-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Cancelling Class 10 exams against academic interest of students, states PIL||A public interest litigation (PIL) has been moved in Bombay high court (HC) challenging the state government’s April 2021 order on cancellation of Class 10 exams across all boards, given rising Covid-19 cases in the state. The petition has claimed that the government’s decision was against the academic interest of students and would lead to problems in the admission process for Class 11 as different boards would come up with different formulae for declaration of results without conducting exams. The PIL filed by Pune resident and retired professor Dhananjay Kulkarni through advocate Uday Warunjikar has claimed that the government decision would result in complete absurdity as the unequals would be treated equally if results were based on percentile or best of five formulae. The petition has stated that if the state board for higher and secondary education would conduct the examination for Class 12 which has nearly 14 lakh students across the state there was no justification for cancelling Class 10 exams, which will be given by more than 16 lakh students of the state board and other students belonging to other boards as well. Kulkarni has further submitted in the petition that the decision to not conduct exams for Class 10 would also affect the admissions to diploma courses which have 11.5 lakh seats and will also have an adverse effect on the diploma in pharmacy course. The petition has added that though the state has said that it would come out with a common formula for all boards it is yet to be announced and if the proposal to conduct an entrance test for admission to class 11 could be conducted then there was no harm in conducting the class 10 exams as well. In light of these averments, the petition has sought to quash and set aside the cancellation of Class 10 SSC exams decision of the state government and pending hearing sought a stay on the operation of the decision. The petition has also sought directions to the Centre to conduct class 10 exams across boards with a proper formula to avoid confusion among students. Though the PIL was listed before a bench of HC on Thursday, as it recused the PIL is likely to come up for hearing next week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-cancelling-class-10-exams-against-academic-interest-of-students-states-pil-101620932931941.html
14-05-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai civic body to stop vaccination drive for 45+ age group on Sat, Sun||Owing to the shortage of vaccine doses, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has decided to stop the vaccination drive for the 45+ age group on Saturday and Sunday. On Friday, the vaccination drive will be undertaken for four hours, between 1pm to 5pm.According to BMC officials, it plans to vaccinate around 100,000 citizens, who are awaiting their second dose of Covishield and Covaxin, on a walk-in basis for 60+ and specially-abled citizens. However, the decision might change owing to the revised guidelines of administering a second dose of Covishield between a gap of 12 to 16 weeks. The current gap between two doses of the vaccine was six-eight weeks.The civic body had a stock of 100,000 vaccines on Wednesday, but of the same, over 20,000 were used for Thursday’s vaccination drive.Dr DN Patil, state immunisation officer said, “Around 80% of the doses were used for administering the second jab for those above 45 years today. In the next two days, we will further reduce the percentage of inoculation for the first dose. We are expecting more stock of vaccine from the Centre tomorrow or day after. The stock currently available with us can last for two more days. Both the manufacturers are expected to supply us stocks against our orders placed for the 18-44 years group. We can then think of resuming the inoculation for 18-44 years. We have not decided any date to continue the suspension of the vaccination for this group, it depends on the availability of vaccines.”On Thursday, 31,377 citizens were vaccinated in the city, of which, 6,541 were between the age group of 18 and 44, 12,184 were between 45 to 59 age group and 10,953 were senior citizens above 60 years of age followed by the remaining healthcare and frontline workers. Overall, 2,817,425 citizens have been vaccinated in the city.Though the civic body has suspended the vaccination drive for the 18 to 44 years of age group to divert the doses for the second shot of the 45+ age group, the private hospitals are continuing to conduct the vaccination drive in the city as they are directly procuring the vaccine doses from the manufacturers. These private hospitals are conducting vaccination for all age groups above 18+ and are allowed to charge.Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner said, “We had around 100,000 doses in our stock as of Wednesday and we will continue our vaccination drive with it on Friday too. However, for now, the vaccination for the 18 to 44 age group will remain on hold as we had announced on Wednesday.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-civic-boy-to-stop-vaccination-drive-for-45-age-group-on-sat-sun-101620932811954.html
14-05-2021||Lucknow||Hookah bar found operational in Lucknow amid corona curfew, 16 arrested||The Lucknow police on Wednesday midnight arrested 16 people from a hookah bar operational, amid corona curfew imposed across Uttar Pradesh, said senior police officials on Thursday.They said the hookah bar was operational in a building near Raj Bhawan campus in Hazratganj police station limits.Inspector of Hazratganj police station, Shyam Babu Shukla said the police got suspicious after movement of some luxurious vehicles after midnight and a patrol team was asked to follow the vehicles. He said all vehicles were found to be parked near a building where Emperor Hookah bar was operational violating the state government orders during the pandemic times.Shukla said a police team raided the bar and found as many as 16 people present inside at around 1 am on Thursday. He said all accused have been arrested and booked under IPC sections 188 for violating government order, 269 for unlawfully or negligently doing any act which is, and which he knows or has reason to believe to be, likely to spread the infection of any disease dangerous to life. Besides, the Epidemic Act and Disaster management act has been slapped against them, he added.He said the bar had been seized and Lucknow Municipal Corporation officials had been asked to take further action like cancellation of licences and imposition of fine for violating their norms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/hookah-bar-found-operational-in-lucknow-amid-corona-curfew-16-arrested-101620932751900.html
14-05-2021||Delhi||As kids process grief, Delhi schools lend a hand||From organising online prayer meets for students who lost their parents to Covid to ensuring constant communication with them, schools in the national capital are taking various steps to ensure emotional and mental support for these children to process their grief.Tania Joshi, principal of The Indian School, said at least six students in her school have lost one of their parents this month. “These deaths can weigh heavily on the minds of children and there has to be a specialised approach because every situation is different. We have asked teachers to be in touch with these students and their families. Many families are still in shock and we will encourage them to opt for counselling when they are ready,” she said.Ameeta Wattal, principal of Springdales Pusa Road, said the school tries to be the first contact for the child after they receive information of a parent’s death. “We have created WhatsApp groups where teachers inform us if there has been a death of a parent. We first call the immediate relatives of the parent to get stock of the situation there, ask about the child, and assure the family of any assistance they need,” she said.The school then gets in touch with the classmates and their parents to find out the child’s closest friends and establish a peer group. The peer group is then instructed to keep the child engaged and busy through conversation, activities and group phone calls as it is easier for them to talk to someone their age. The school also organises virtual prayer meetings for children and is planning on a “concert of hope”.“We will share photographs of those who have lost their lives to Covid and bring the children together on a platform so that they can share their grief. The death of a parent involves more than mental health issues. Their entire lives will change because of this,” she said.Psychologist Manveen Kaur, who is the counsellor at Amity International School in Saket, said that dealing with death is more difficult with children as they often don’t understand their emotions or are unable to identify or communicate it, leading to behavioural changes.“If grief counselling is not done in the right way, it would have long-term adverse effects like longstanding depression and anxiety in children, trust issues in life and can become a part of their personality,” she said, adding that they are doing family therapy with such children and their immediate family members.“The family members are the immediate contact of the children and need to be counselled on how to behave with them and involve them in daily activities or look for changes in their behaviour,” she said.Divya Bhatia, principal of Amity International School in Saket, said the school is planning voluntary group therapy sessions where children can share their grief together.Schools are also helping students with other necessities during the pandemic. “From providing cooked meals for the families who tested positive to arranging for medicines, oxygen or cremation facilities, we have a dedicated cell looking into the various needs which came up during the pandemic,” said Alka Kapur, principal of Modern Public School, Shalimar Bagh.Government schools in the capital have also asked their teachers to maintain communication with children and parents despite the ongoing summer vacation. Sarita Batra, principal at Rajkiya Pratibha Vikas Vidyalaya in Shalimar Bagh, said the school management committee has also been active in keeping tabs on the children to see if they need any help.“We have been recording motivational stories on fighting these challenging times and sending them to children. Sometimes, we also discuss stories on video conferencing platforms with each section and turn this into a storytelling session, allowing children to express themselves. Our teachers also record voice messages for the children on WhatsApp and motivate them to not lose hope,” she said.The Central Board of Secondary Education also launched a mobile application for students of classes 9 to 12 on Monday to look at the psychosocial wellness of students. The app offers counselling sessions, educational material on social, emotional and behavioural issues such as depression, anxiety over exams and internet addiction disorder, among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/from-counselling-to-prayer-meets-schools-in-delhi-go-the-extra-mile-to-ensure-emotional-support-for-students-who-lost-parents-to-covid-101620932092393.html
14-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt opens two quarantine centres for unattended, rescued children||The Delhi government’s department of women and child development (WCD) has set up two quarantine centres, especially for children who are either found unattended or rescued by NGOs or police, before sending them to designated child care institutions (CCIs) or children homes.The centres are also catering to children, aged between six and 18 years, whose entire family are down with Covid-19 or are have been hospitalised. The quarantine centre for girls has been set up in a child care home run by an NGO, Butterflies, in south-west Delhi’s village Jaunapur. For boys, the quarantine centre has been set up at the government-operated children home in Lajpat Nagar. Both the quarantine centres became functional this week.Delhi minister for women and child development Rajendra Pal Gautam said the department decided to set up such centres to prevent the spread of Covid-19 among children residing in children’s homes or CCIs across the Capital. “Normally, children found unattended or rescued are directly sent to child care institutions or children’s homes after producing them before district child welfare committees. In the current circumstances, we cannot let new admissions mingle with the children who are already there in the CCIs. Therefore, it was decided to set up these two quarantine centres for children aged between six and 18 years,” he said.The children brought to the quarantine centres will be isolated here for 14 days, following which the department willl conducts their Covid-19 test before transferring them to children’s homes or CCIs. There are 101 children’s homes in Delhi.The two centres are providing all the basic facilities to these children, as any other CCI, and also have a full-time nurse to monitor them. They also have television and indoor games facilities for the residents. The WCD has also roped in doctors to regularly check the children for any symptoms.Currently, there are 11 boys and 13 girls living in the quarantine centres. Yogesh Mishra, in-charge at the Lajpat Nagar centre, said 10 of the boys were rescued by childline workers from railway stations and bus-stands. “Any new child has to undergo an RT-PCR test. We keep them in a separate room till the report comes. In case any child is found Covid positive, he or she is sent to district Covid care facilities. If the report returns negative, they live with other children staying at the facility,” he said.The department has constituted a district task force for Covid-19 positive children, who are in CCIs or whose parents have died due to the virus. Mishra said he also got one such case through the task force wherein an autistic child was found with his unconscious Covid-positive mother in Uttam Nagar last week. “The mother was rushed to a hospital and the child brought here. However, after realizing that he has autism, we had to send him to Institute of Human Behaviour and Allied Sciences. His mother passed away at the hospital on Wednesday night,” he said.Officials at the Butterflies child care center in Jaunapur said a majority of girls staying with them have been rescued either by police or the district task force. “Most of these are cases of elopement. They were found unattended either at the railway station or bus stand. We have been maintaining social distancing within the centre as well,” said Mohit Pal, in charge of the facility.The Delhi Commission for Protection of Child Rights (DCPCR), which is also monitoring these centres, said that it’s also exploring the possibility of setting up full-fledged Covid care centres for children. “We are trying to get at least some beds reserved for children in the existing government Covid care facilities so that in case the situation worsens, the children do not suffer. We are also closely monitoring these two centres and ensuring that they provide all possible facilities so that children do not go through any trauma during isolation,” said Ranjana Prasad, DCPCR member.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-govt-opens-two-quarantine-centres-for-unattended-rescued-children-101620932091840.html
14-05-2021||Delhi||Process to decongest Tihar prison set off with release of 300 inmates||Delhi’s Tihar jail officials on Thursday started the process of releasing prisoners on interim bail as a measure to decongest the prison complex that is currently at almost double its capacity with over 19,500 prisoners as against sanctioned room for 10,026.The prison’s director general, Sandeep Goel, confirmed that the process to release 1,133 prisoners started on Thursday. HT spoke to different jail officers and confirmed that at least 300 prisoners had already been released by 10 pm. The prison authorities are also awaiting the state government’s order to release around 1,000 convicts on emergency parole.“Following a Supreme Court order, the high-powered committee (HPC) has now ordered immediate release of those 1,133 UTPs who were released on interim bail last time (in 2020), and later surrendered with no adverse report. They will be released on the strength of their previous interim bail orders which will be deemed valid again for an interim bail of 90 days. This process is starting today,” Goel said.In March last year, as one of the first measures to decongest the jail in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, around 6,000 prisoners were released on emergency bail and interim parole, and were later directed to surrender on dates decided by HPC, which includes members of the state government, courts, and prison authorities. With cases declining after Delhi’s third wave of the infection in October-November last year, and the prisoners already out of jail for more than nine months, the Delhi High Court in December asked the prisoners to surrender in a phased manner between February and March.Of the prisoners who were released, around 2,300 undertrial prisoners are yet to surrender. Their names have been shared with Delhi Police.“Only those prisoners who surrendered on time and also did not indulge in any unlawful activity have been selected. There are some 350 prisoners who were released last year, but were again arrested for street crimes. They will not be eligible. For the convicted prisoners, we are awaiting the home department’s order for their release. In their case too, only whose who surrendered on time will be eligible,” a prison officer, who did not wish to be named, said.For release on interim bail, HPC has laid down 11 categories of undertrial prisoners -- such as those in civil imprisonment, senior citizens facing trial for offences with a maximum punishment of 10 years in jail, those suffering serious illnesses and are facing trial for offences with punishment ranging from 10 years to life -- who are eligible for grant of 90 days interim bail on furnishing a personal bond.The spread of the infection inside Tihar has been more severe this time compared to the spread during the first three waves of the infection. In February, there was not a single case of Covid-19 among prisoners or jail officials. Even until April 6, the jail had only 19 cases of Covid-19 among prisoners. But in the past one month, Tihar has reported over 300 Covid-19 cases among prisoners. Six prisoners have died of the infection in April and May.Prison officers said the cases are again going down inside the prison. Currently, there are about 100 cases of infection. Underworld gangster Chhota Rajan, who was admitted to AIIMS last month, returned to Tihar on Tuesday after testing negative. Student-activist Umar Khalid, who was kept in isolation after testing positive last month, too, returned to his cell after recovering from the disease.Advocate Ajay Verma, former convenor of National Forum for Prison Reforms, said, “ We had approached the Supreme Court to direct the high-powered committee to decongest the jail by releasing prisoners on interim bail. Only those prisoners who surrendered well on time are entitled. This is a good move by jail officers to immediately release the prisoners . From a safety point of view, it is better for both jail officers and prisoners. The jail has no space for social distancing. We also request the Delhi government to issue orders to immediately release the eligible convicted prisoners on parole. These are prisoners who surrendered on time and did not indulge in any unlawful activity.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/process-to-decongest-tihar-prison-set-off-with-release-of-300-inmates-101620932032664.html
14-05-2021||Delhi||Mosques shut on an Eid without festivity||When Syed Ahmed Bukhari, the shahi imam of Delhi’s Jama Masjid, will deliver his Khutbah (sermon) after Eid prayers on Friday, only a handful of people would be listening, unlike the pre-corona times when at least 15,000-18,000 people gathered to offer the namaz in one of the country’s largest mosques.The Jama Masjid will stay shut to avoid crowding in the wake of the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic and only the Imam and the mosque staff will offer namaz inside the Mughal-era monument. Imam Bukhari urged people to stay home and not crowd mosques and markets on Eid-ul Fitr -- the festival that is celebrated on the culmination of the fasting month of Ramzan.“We pray for the well-being of our country and our fellow countrymen. But this time, there will be special prayers for the people who died of Covid-19 and their grieving families and those who are still struggling with this deadly virus. Some of them are from our own families and acquaintances. The situation this time is even worse than last year. The virus is not even sparing youngsters and children… I urge people to stay home and pray for the welfare of our country,” Bukhari said.Similarly, all other big mosques in the city will remain shut on Eid as a lockdown continues to remain in effect to contain the spread of the virus. Only the mosque staff living inside the building will offer the prayer on the premises.This year, for the second time in a row, Muslims will observe the festival at homes with no public prayers, hugs, and dawats (get-togethers).Mufti Mukarram Ahmed, the Shahi Imam of Masjid Fatehpuri, said, “In view of the extent of loss around us, this year’s Eid is not about celebration and festivities. It should be observed by helping those in need and praying for those suffering due to this deadly virus. We cannot forget things happening around us and indulge in celebrations. We will also be praying for Palestine (In the backdrop of recent clashes in Gaza).”Several people said that this year, Eid is actually not about celebrations but prayers and atonement. Anas Tanvir, an advocate and founder of the Indian Civil Liberties Union (ICLU), said, “There is nothing to celebrate this year when so many people we know have lost their parents and family members to Covid-19.”Many people also shared their pain of losing their loved ones amid the pandemic and not having them around on Eid, on social media. “My Eid would start with receiving eidi (gifts) from abba and amma, no matter where I was. Now that I have lost both of them, it will never be the same,” Siddiqui Fariqa wrote on Twitter.Several Delhiites have decided to celebrate Eid by helping those in need amid the lockdown. Abu Sufiyan, an old Delhi-based entrepreneur, said he along with a team of volunteers have donated 500 eid kits, containing regular ration and items to prepare Eid delicacies such as sewaiyan, to the poor between Wednesday and Thursday. “We are distributing these kits among those from marginalised sections irrespective of their religion since Eid is for everyone,” he said.Meanwhile, several doctors will spend their Eid while working in Covid wards in hospitals. Dr Kashifa Majeed, 24, an intern at Hamdard Institute of Medical Sciences & Research said her parents in Jodhpur (Rajasthan) have motivated her to choose duty over festivities this year. “I will be doing night shifts on both Thursday and Friday. My parents said that I am more required here at the hospital right now and we can celebrate Eid next year...There are so many patients at the hospital who would not be able to be with their loved ones on this Eid. At least we can be there for them and cheer them on,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mosques-to-stay-shut-muslims-say-they-will-pray-for-those-affected-by-pandemic-this-eid-101620932033293.html
14-05-2021||Delhi||Central Vista: Lack of labour slows office complex work||The construction of two office complexes that were being built at Kasturba Gandhi Marg and Africa Avenue in central Delhi to shift offices from the Central Vista for the ongoing revamp project has been delayed due to a shortage of workers and changes to the buildings’ plans, a senior Central Public Works Department (CPWD) official said on Thursday.CPWD officials said a revised deadline for the two complexes is yet to be finalised.The two complexes, which will house 29 departments, mostly defence agencies, were to be completed by March this year.A senior CPWD official aware of the development said, “There were some changes in the floor plans requested by departments that will shift there, because of which we had to rework the drawings. We were hoping to complete the work by June, but the pace of work has been affected due to a shortage of workers. A large number of labourers have left due to the Covid-19 situation in the Capital and the lockdown.”The Union ministry of housing and urban affairs did not respond to requests for a comment.The lockdown in the city, which was imposed on April 20 to arrest an alarming rise in Covid-19 cases and deaths, has seen several migrant workers leave the Capital for their home towns and villages, leading to delays in several infrastructure projects, including the Pragati Maidan revamp, and construction of the Dwarka expressway.The CPWD is building the two office complexes to relocate offices, especially from the hutments around the North and South blocks, to make way for the construction of the Vice President and Prime Minister’s residences, Special Protection Group (SPG) office building, and others, as part of the Central Vista redevelopment project.HT on May 4 reported that the V-P, and PM’s new residences are scheduled to be completed by May and December 2022, respectively, according to the CPWD, the nodal agency for the Vista project, as the environment ministry’s expert appraisal committee (EAC) has granted the necessary clearance for the rest of the buildings under the plan.There was no clarity if the delay in the construction of the two complexes will impact work on the PM, VP’s residences.While the office complex at KG Marg will have three blocks of nine-storeyed buildings (ground plus eight), the one at Africa Avenue will have four blocks of eight-storey buildings.“Work on the buildings is around 65% complete. We were hoping to complete it by June, but it looks difficult now, since we don’t have sufficient labour available. The structures are almost ready. We have to complete the floor-wise work as per the revised plan. Another reason for the delay is trouble getting in the construction material due to the partial lockdowns and labour shortages in other parts of the country,” said the official.A senior CPWD official said a review meeting was held on Wednesday regarding all the agency’s ongoing projects in the country.“We are facing a shortage of workers at all our projects. The shortage varies from 20 to 80%, depending on the site. The problem is less acute at sites where we have on-site labour.”Meanwhile, the Indira Gandhi National Centre for Arts (IGNCA), where the three buildings of the new common central secretariat are proposed to be built, is yet to be completely moved to Janpath hotel, its temporary home for next three years. The arts and culture centre was to complete the shifting process by mid-May.“The process got stalled due to the lockdown,” said an IGNCA official. The deadline for completing the shifting process will be revised depending on when the lockdown is lifted, said the official.As for the work related to Central Vista, the CPWD official said that no decision has been taken to revise the deadline of various project components.The entire Vista project is slated to be completed by September 2026.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/central-vista-labour-shortages-delay-work-on-two-new-office-complexes-on-kg-marg-africa-avenue-101620931972480.html
14-05-2021||Mumbai||3 held for robbing toll booth attendant in Mumbai||Navghar police have arrested three men for allegedly assaulting an attendant of the Mulund (East) toll booth and robbing money from him on Thursday morning.According to the police, around 9.30am on Thursday, the attendant, Paresh Suryavanshi, was walking towards the MEP Infrastructure Pvt Ltd office – the firm that manages the toll booth – near the bridge at Anand Nagar to deposit the amount collected at the booth, when a motorcycle approached him from behind. Inspector Ganesh Sanap from Navghar police station said that as restrictions on travel are in place on account of the pandemic, there was less traffic in the morning, taking advantage of which, the robbers attacked Suryavanshi with a wooden stick on his head.“The accused then tried to snatch the box of cash from Suryavashi, but he resisted the attempt, following which the box fell on the road and the cash, worth ₹8,500, fell out of the box,” said Sanap.The accused then picked up the money and fled the spot. Suryavanshi raised an alarm and called the police.Sanap said that after registering the case, they scanned the CCTV footage of the area and noted the number of the motorcycle. “Based on the number plate of the motorcycle, we tracked the three men,” added Sanap.The men – Rahul Rajendra Patre, 23, Sunil Prakash Dhurandhar, 20, and Kailash Chandrakant Thakur, 28 – have been arrested for assault and robbery.The police are now probing the case further.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/3-held-for-robbing-toll-booth-attendant-in-mumbai-101620931671815.html
14-05-2021||Mumbai||Param Bir Singh not to be arrested in atrocities case till May 20: State to HC||In a temporary reprieve for Param Bir Singh, the Maharashtra government on Thursday assured the Bombay high court (HC) that it will not be arresting the former Mumbai Police commissioner in relation to the FIR (first information report) registered against him at Akola on April 13 on the basis of a complaint lodged by a personnel. The case, in which Singh and several others are booked for various offences, including atrocities under the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, was later transferred to Thane Police.The division bench of justice PB Varale and justice NR Borkar, while hearing the application filed by Singh’s counsel senior advocate Mahesh Jethmalani, was informed that the FIR was registered against him as retribution for the grievances and complaints of corruption he had raised against former state home minister Anil Deshmukh. The application by Singh stated that he was being pressured to withdraw the March 20 letter written by him to the chief minister against Deshmukh, but as he had refused to comply, the FIR was registered against him. In light of this, the application sought an inquiry by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) into the “malicious attempts” to pressure him to withdraw his March 20 letter. The application also sought restricting the investigations into the FIR registered against him pending the hearing of the plea in HC, and also to quash the case as it was “wholly arbitrary and illegal” and issued with “sinister motives”. Jethmalani further submitted that as the applicant was apprehending his arrest, he should be protected and no coercive action must be taken against him till the next date of hearing. Senior advocate Darius Khambata for the state informed the court that the government needed time to reply to Singh’s application and assured the court that it would arrest the former Mumbai Police commissioner till the next date of hearing. “The FIR was registered on April 13 and we are now at May 13. He has not been arrested till now,” said Khambata. The court accepted the assurance by Khambata and posted the hearing of the petition to May 20.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/param-bir-singh-not-to-be-arrested-in-atrocities-case-till-may-20-state-to-hc-101620931612384.html
14-05-2021||Other||Elgar Parishad: Submit Sudha Bharadwaj’s health report by May 17, Bombay HC tells authorities||The Bombay high court (HC) has directed the authorities of Byculla women’s prison to submit the health report of activist and lawyer Sudha Bharadwaj – an accused in the Elgar Parishad case – by May 17. The directions were issued after hearing the interim bail application filed on medical grounds by Bharadwaj’s daughter Maaysha Singh. A division bench of justice KK Tated and justice Abhay Ahuja, while hearing the petition filed by Singh, was informed by advocate Yug Mohit Chaudhary that Bharadwaj was being kept in a prison ward with 50 other women and that the conditions were extremely unsanitary and there was no possibility of physical distancing. Chaudhary further submitted that Bharadwaj has comorbidities, and due to issues of overcrowding in the prison amid the Covid-19 pandemic and lack of proper treatment to inmates, the petitioner was seeking the release of her mother on interim bail on health grounds. When the bench asked for a fresh report on Bharadwaj’s current health condition, additional public prosecutor JP Yagnik for the state prison authority submitted that they would take the accused to Sir JJ Hospital on Thursday for a medical examination and submit a report within a week. The National Investigation Agency (NIA) was entrusted with the Elgar Parishad case probe last January. The agency’s lawyer, advocate Sandesh Patil, said that there is no urgency in the matter and that it was unable to file a reply on Singh’s petition within a week due to the pandemic situation. The bench responded, “We understand that officers are working at 15 % capacity. Let us see the medical report first.” The court directed the prison authority to file a report of medical examination by May 17 and it will hear the plea next on May 21.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/elgar-parishad-submit-sudha-bharadwaj-s-health-report-by-may-17-bombay-hc-tells-authorities-101620931613126.html
14-05-2021||Mumbai||Indrani Mukerjea seeks interim bail||Indrani Mukerjea, the prime accused in the Sheena Bora murder case, recently sought interim bail on health grounds following her Covid-19 after she recovery.The prosecution has submitted a reply opposing the plea.Indrani, who is facing a murder charge for allegedly killing her daughter in April 2012, had tested positive for Covid-19 in the last week of April. She later wrote to the court from jail seeking interim bail on health grounds.Meanwhile, her regular bail plea is also pending before the Bombay high court.This is her second request for interim bail. Last June, Indrani had sought interim bail due to the spread of Covid-19 in prison. A month later, her plea was rejected by the special CBI (Central Bureau of Investigation) court.While refusing to grant her interim bail for 45 days, the CBI court had noted that Indrani is a foreign national, and thus belongs to the category of prisoners which is exempted from getting interim bail. The court also observed that only on the grounds of the spread of Covid-19 in jails, Indrani should not be granted bail. The court had also noted that medical officers are available in the jail and prisoners are well taken care of.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/indrani-mukerjea-seeks-interim-bail-101620931611792.html
14-05-2021||Mumbai||Ajit Pawar cancels move to hire pvt agency for publicity||Following criticism from the Opposition and on the social media over the decision to spend ₹5.98 crore on deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar’s social media publicity, the order has now been scrapped. The state government had on Wednesday issued a government resolution (GR), giving its nod to hire a private agency for the publicity of the schemes and decisions by Pawar on social media and increase his outreach.After the media reports on the decision emerged, the Opposition strongly criticised the deputy chief minister for spending such a huge amount on publicity during the pandemic. The Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader also faced criticism on the social media, following which his office issued a statement on Thursday announcing that the proposal has been cancelled.“The deputy chief minister has directed to immediately scrap the order as he feels that there is no need of appointing a private agency. His office does not feel the need to be active independently on social media as the publicity department of the government is sufficient for it. The office will continue to rely on the publicity department of the government for the communication with media and public. Eyebrows were raised over the order issued yesterday as the deputy chief minister has always believed to be away from unnecessary publicity. He has ordered to cancel the said order,” the statement read.BJP leader Atul Bhatkhalkar said, “After we raised the voice, the deputy chief minister has cancelled the order. It should also be done by the CM too amid the financial crisis in the state during the pandemic.”NCP spokesperson and state minority affairs minister Nawab Malik said the proposed expenditure on publicity was very less in the comparison to the money spent by the previous Devendra Fadnavis government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ajit-pawar-cancels-move-to-hire-pvt-agency-for-publicity-101620931551832.html
14-05-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai labs see sharp drop in Covid-19 tests||With the drop in the number of daily Covid-19 patients, government and private laboratories are seeing a 36-50% dip in demand for RT-PCR and rapid antigen tests in May compared to April. Health officials attribute it to the lockdown imposed in mid-April, which restricted movement, and consequently cases and the tests for their close contacts.Amid the spike in cases in April, private laboratories were receiving around 15,000 swab samples daily, which is now down to around 8,000. In the first week of May, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) chief Iqbal Singh Chahal, too, confirmed the dip. Data from the BMC shows that overall testing in the city has dropped 36% in May – from an average of 43,354 tests a day to 27,798. Chandrashekhar Mani, vice-president (operations), Thyrocare, said, “The demand for testing has dropped by almost 50% this month compared to the previous months. When the second wave started, the state, in a circular, instructed corporate houses to test their employees, which added to the demand for testing. Firstly, they asked for RT-PCR testing, and gradually allowed rapid antigen tests.” Suburban Diagnostics, too, has seen a similar trend. Dr Anupa Dixit, laboratory director of the diagnostic centre, said, “As we have seen a drop in the daily Covid-19 cases, the number of tests has naturally gone down. At present, we are testing 7,000-8,000 samples daily.” Last month, the city broke all records on April 7, with 11,163 new cases, the highest since the outbreak of the pandemic. On an average, the city was recording 6,800 new cases daily. The overall growth rate worsened to 1.91%, with a doubling rate of 35 days. However, as of May 12, the city’s doubling rate has improved to 176 days and the overall growth rate is 0.38%. The daily average of Covid-19 cases stands at 2,100 in May. “In April, our main target was testing as many people as possible. We were tracking 40 close contacts for every patient. On certain days, we even conducted 56,000 tests. But now, the number of daily tests has dropped to around 28,000, as the infection rate has fallen. With this, the need for testing close contacts of patients has also declined,” said Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner, BMC. Public health experts point out that the lockdown has largely contributed to it. “The lockdown has helped control the spread of the virus, thereby bringing down the demand for testing. Also, last month, we were testing all local vendors and roadside stall owners, which has stopped now because of the lockdown,” said Dr Mangala Gomare, executive health officer, BMC. On May 5, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) reiterated the guideline that a person who has tested positive for Covid-19 need not undergo another test after completing the mandatory quarantine period or post recovery. Experts believe this may also be one of the contributing factors behind the drop in testing numbers. In April, the labs were overwhelmed with work and faced severe shortage of testing kits, which delayed the reports by more than two-three days. “Now, with fewer samples, most labs are able to give the reports within 36 hours,” said Mani.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-labs-see-sharp-drop-in-covid-19-tests-101620931493476.html
14-05-2021||Mumbai||Nawab Malik questions Centre over use of non-permitted Moderna vaccine||Maharashtra minister and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Nawab Malik on Thursday questioned the Central government about how it allowed a non-permitted vaccine to be administered to the residents of France and their relatives who reside in India.Malik in his tweet said “Covishield, Covaxin and Sputnik V are the 3 Vaccines that are permitted in India by our government. According to information received by me, the French Embassy in India has procured the vaccine @moderna_tx and is inoculating their citizens and their relatives at Navi Mumbai with the help of @ApolloHosMumbai. Question arises, how can a non-permitted vaccine be allowed to be administered? If they can get it, why can’t Indian government get it for our citizens too? The government and the Health Minister @drharshvardhan must clarify.”The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has termed this a non-issue. “It is the right of every embassy to give whatever vaccine they want to their employees. The state has the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) which should take action if they want. They just want to divert the topic,” said BJP legislator Ram Kadam.The state government has been accusing the Centre for vaccination fiasco, saying it was the latter who allots vaccines to states and hence any shortage was its responsibility. State ministers said the Central government was biased against Maharashtra and was not allotting sufficient vaccines to it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/nawab-malik-questions-centre-over-use-of-non-permitted-moderna-vaccine-101620931371828.html
14-05-2021||Mumbai||Rural Maharashtra sees more Covid-19 cases compared to urban spots||Maharashtra, which recorded 42,582 new Covid-19 cases on Thursday, is witnessing a surge in cases in the rural parts of the state as compared to urban pockets. Both Covid positivity rate and growth rates have increased in rural areas compared to urban centres.Take the case of rural parts of Ahmednagar which reported 2,370 new cases on Thursday, which is 829.41% more compared to cases in the urban parts of the district which stood at 255. Similarly, in Jalgaon, 575new cases were recorded in rural areas whereas 71 new cases came from urban Jalgaon. Solapur rural saw 1,569 new cases while the urban pockets in the district clocked 125 cases. The trend is similar for Kolhapur and Sangli which recorded 1,144 and 1,229 cases in rural areas and 125 and 234 new cases in the urban areas, respectively. Dr Subhash Salunke, advisor to the state government on Covid-19 management, said this trend was witnessed even in the first wave of the virus. “Covid-19 first strikes the urban areas and then slowly spreads to semi-urban and rural pockets,” said Salunke, adding, “There is a huge population living in peripheral areas who come to urban areas for their livelihood. They are the carriers of this virus,” he added.Dr Wiqar Shaikh, professor of medicine, Grant Medical College and Sir JJ Hospital, blamed the lack of Covid-appropriate behaviour among rural masses for the spread of the virus. “You hardly see rural people wearing masks or observing social distancing. In addition, they tend to neglect initial signs of Covid-19 symptoms,” said Shaikh. “Rural health infrastructure is the worst, and we hardly see doctors in many places. These factors aggravate the situation,” he added.In Ichalkaranji, a private hospital was found using a ventilator meant for government hospital and charging fees from patients. In Nashik, police started bashing those roaming or driving without valid reason. In Satara, the local administration has decided to fine citizens ₹500 for roaming without valid reason.Currently, Kolhapur is witnessing a high fatality rate of 3.5%. The Covid-19 task force team visited the city to study the situation and suggested a complete ban on home isolation while beefing up testing facilities in this region. A total of 250,398 tests were conducted across the state on Thursday. The day also saw 54,535 recoveries. The death toll has reached 78,857 with 850 patients succumbing to the virus on Thursday. The total case count in Maharashtra stands at 5,269,292.On Thursday, there were 533,294 active cases in the state. Pune topped with 101,181 active cases followed by Nagpur with 45,996 active cases. In terms of Covid fatalities, Mumbai leads with 14,040 deaths followed by Pune with 10,232 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/rural-maharashtra-sees-more-covid-19-cases-compared-to-urban-spots-101620931312271.html
14-05-2021||Pune||Rural Pune hot spots put on alert to control Covid spread||On the evening of May 10, an auto rickshaw with a loudspeaker rode through the Bhigwan village making an announcement that the residents knew was coming: a complete lockdown starting from the midnight of May 12. Bhigwan, a business hub in Indapur tehsil located on the Pune-Solapur highway, and known for its fish market, had just come out of a Janta curfew, which was far stricter than the curbs imposed by the state government on April 15. In this Janta curfew, only medical shops were permitted to remain open. Bhigwan is among the 107 villages of Pune district that were recently put on a first-of-its-kind list brought out by the Rajesh Deshmukh, Pune’s district collector, on May 7. The list categorised the hot spots as “alert” (the caseload was high and not reducing) and “high alert” (the caseload was high and increasing). Bhigwan was among the former and at least 159 villages and/or municipal councils made it to the latter. On May 11, Pune district recorded 7,714 new Covid-19 cases and almost 48% came from villages and municipal councils. Though the state government has imposed strict curbs, at least four of the 15 tehsils in Pune district (Baramati, Bhor, Maval and Indapur) have imposed week-long complete lockdowns last week. “The number of cases has been going down in Pune district. In Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and in Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) limits, cases have reduced. But in the rural parts, the number of cases is high. So, containment planning has been done in rural areas. Aggressive testing is going on and emphasis has been given on early detection and isolation. With these measures, cases will come in control in rural areas,” said Pune divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao. As cases began to surge in Maharashtra starting February -- it remained the most affected state in the country for most of March and April – the spread of Covid-19 hit both densely populated urban centres as well as rural parts of the state which have little access to health care infrastructure. However, even as cases seem to have come under control in urban centres like Mumbai, the positivity rate in rural parts of the state have shot up in the last few weeks. For instance, rural Pune reported a test positivity rate of 28.07% compared to PMC, the district’s urban centre, which reported 18.18% positivity rate in the week of May 3-9. PMC which has the highest number of confirmed cases in the district started to show a downward trend of positive cases from the third week of April. In the first 12 days of May, 47,542 new positive cases were recorded in rural Pune; by comparison, 32,546 new cases were recorded in PMC and 26,303 new cases recorded in Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC). Even if we were to take recoveries into account, out of 88,851 active cases in the district on May 12, PMC recorded 27,014, PCMC recorded 20,869, while rural parts of the district recorded 39,529. Pandurang Salavade, the sarpanch (village head) of Dorlewadi village in Baramati tehsil (an “alert village”) expressed shock at the severity of the second wave. “There have been 185 cases in Dorlewadi [till date]. During the first wave, we registered 30-35 cases in the village. There were no deaths. This time, there have been 12 deaths, all in May. The entire village is terrified and is seriously following lockdown rules,” he said. Shubhangi Nale is an ASHA (Accredited Social Health Activist) member in Dorlewadi. One of the tasks assigned to her at the start of the pandemic was to survey 50 families every day to detect early the onset of the Covid-19 infection. She was also tasked to monitor symptoms of Covid patients in home isolation and, since the beginning of this year, to spread awareness about the vaccination drive to curb the spread of the coronavirus. Nale said that last year she didn’t fear for her life, but this time around, the speed at which the infection has spread is terrifying to her. “I have been working as Asha worker since 2009 and it is a completely different experience working in Covid pandemic. I was not scared of working last year. This time I am afraid of the way the virus is spreading. I can’t work from home. I have to go and interact with people. Most of the time we don’t even know that the other person has contracted the virus. I am taking more precaution this time,” Nale said. Many villagers were lax about wearing masks and often visited weekly markets without maintaining physical distance. “It has been a year since the pandemic has begun. Why people haven’t adopted basic behaviour required to fight this disease is beyond me,” Nale said. The health infrastructure in rural parts is under pressure to accommodate the caseload in the second wave. There are 56 hospitals and Covid Care Centres with 2,293 beds (1,190 oxygen beds; 137 ventilator beds), which serve all 14 municipal councils in the district; 138 hospitals with 5,911 beds (1,966 oxygen beds; 188 ventilators beds) must suffice for 1,866 smaller villages. But this isn’t evenly available. Dorlewadi has a population of 6,500. Most households do not have equipment like oxymeters and thermometers and if symptoms are identified, Nale tries hard to convince villagers to get tested. However, for that, they must visit Baramati, six kilometres away as there isn’t a testing centre in the primary healthcare centre in the village. If someone needs to be hospitalized, they must visit Baramati town. The administration has been trying to increase bed capacity and hire more medical professionals in order to improve the quality of treatment. “Our primary aim is early detection and early treatment. With this target we have shown results. We have hired additional medical personnel for Covid duty. We have continued the vaccination drive. There is a plan to build a pediatric hospital in each tehsil. Through CSR, the work to make oxygen plants operational has started at 17 places,” said Ayush Prasad, CEO Zilla Parishad-Pune. Work orders to install oxygen generation plants at 10 hospitals have been issued and ₹50.14 lakh funds have been secured through District Planning Committee funds for this.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/rural-pune-hot-spots-put-on-alert-to-control-covid-spread-101620931252462.html
14-05-2021||Lucknow||Eid festivities amid pandemic||This is second year in a row that devotees have observed Ramzan under pandemic and will be celebrating Eid-ul-Fitr amid lockdown in their homes. Last year, was a complete lockdown while this year we are in a ‘Corona Curfew’ in Uttar Pradesh. Muslims will be offering prayers indoors and celebrating it with family members while connecting with others on phone and virtually. Corporate professional MA Khan shares that last year, though it was a lockdown, he did observe namaz at iconic Nanpara mosque in small groups but this time prayers will all happen at home only. “People are wary on meeting each other. Some delicacies will be prepared but no socialising. Last year, we packed them and sent to our friends and relatives but this year we won’t do that also. Yes, ‘zakat’ portion has been exceeded and a lot of people are doing the same.” Talking about how things are going to be for her this Eid, researcher and social worker, Prof Qamar Rahman said, “I have lost a nephew to Covid so what celebrations in such times! But still, Eid is all about ‘fitrah’ (charity given on Eid) so it’s ‘wajib’ (mandatory) on all. I along with my foundation members have been doing our bit since Ramzan and provided best we could from distributing food items to money on Eid.” Shia PG Degree College lecturer and patron of art-culture Masood Abdullah said that it’s a tough time, but tradition has to go on. “We will have a simple affair with namaz at our campus Seesh Mahal where 60-odd people live together including tenants. Thereafter, sewain, biryani, kebabs will be prepared for us, specially to give to close relatives who are in grief and are not celebrating due to loss of family member,” he said. Known designer Asma Hussain says it’s difficult to celebrate with so much sadness around. “Celebration this Eid will be only for the purpose to observe as currently we are living in a tough phase where everything is too gloomy. So, no reason to celebrate as we lost close ones, we need to prayer and offer best of help to all in need,” she said. According to fashion designer Umair Zafar the best way to observe Eid is to be with people who need your support in the best of your capacity. “See, as per tradition rituals will happen, some ‘pakwans’ will be made and a video conferencing with family members and friends will take place. But right now need is to help people which we are doing but can’t share about it!” Wazda Arora, owner Quiff Salon, said, “We should all be together and face the challenges as we have to come out of it that will be Eid for me and my family. Faced very tough situations last month now just want all to be well from this Eid onwards.” She looks at the brighter side of things and prays things to get better for all soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/eid-festivities-amid-pandemic-101620931193164.html
14-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra seeks national policy on vaccine import, asks Centre to buy on behalf of states||Maharashtra has demanded a national policy on import of Covid-19 vaccines to avoid “unhealthy competition” and profiteering by vaccine manufacturing companies from other countries. The state has also requested the Centre to procure vaccines on behalf of all states for fair price and uniformity in scheduling.State health minister Rajesh Tope, along with health ministers from five other states, participated in a video-conference with Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan on Thursday. Maharashtra pressed for a national policy on vaccine import and more vaccine doses for the state for inoculating the second dose to beneficiaries aged above 45 years, Tope said after the meeting. “Almost all the states participated in the interaction sought policy on the procurement of vaccines from other countries. Currently every state is going for global tenders for procurement of vaccines manufactured in other countries amid the shortage. This would lead to unhealthy competition among the states. The vaccine manufacturing companies from other countries will prove to be beneficiaries of the competition among Indian states; they will look at it as an opportunity to earn more profit. Ultimately, the nation will be at a loss. It should be avoided,” Tope said to have suggested to the Centre.The minister said if the Centre floated global tender on behalf of states, India could procure the vaccines at competitive prices. “Intervention by the Centre in this respect is important. It should float a tender on the basis of demand of vaccines by the states, and should also fix the schedule for vaccination of these imported jabs. The Centre can bring clarity on the use of these imported vaccines, their prices and monitoring for states in the framework of the policy,” he said. He further added that the policy would help weed out the confusion among states related to vaccines developed by other countries and approved by the World Health Organization (WHO).Maharashtra has also demanded for more vaccines for the state to complete vaccination of more than 2 million people who are waiting for their second dose.It has also demanded curtailment of the maximum retail price (MRP) of Amphotericin B injection which is utilised in treating mucormycosis, a fungal infection among recovered Covid-19 patients. “Maharashtra has around 1,500 such patients who need multiple injections, ranging between 20 and 40, with each costing at ₹6,000. We have demanded that the MRP of such injections be reduced to make them affordable to the patients. The MRP is too high, forbidding regulators to take any action. Similarly, the manufacturing companies of this drug should be asked to ramp up production. We have also requested the Centre to allot us an extra quota of the injections in the ratio of the patients in the state,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-seeks-national-policy-on-vaccine-import-asks-centre-to-buy-on-behalf-of-states-101620931132977.html
14-05-2021||Mumbai||Amid second wave, DGCA mandates breath analyser test for crew, ATCO||Taking into account the rising number of Covid-19 cases across the country in the ongoing second wave, the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) on Thursday issued guidelines on breath analyser (BA) tests for airlines and airports across the country. This comes after the Delhi high court (HC) ordered DGCA to issue guidelines stating all requirements and protocols to be followed for administration of BA test. DGCA said a maximum of 5% pilots and cabin crew members will be subjected to random pre-flight BA test on a daily basis, subject to the limit that not more than six people shall be tested in any hour of the day. The aviation regulator also made Air Traffic Controllers (ATCO) subject to random BA test before their daily duty.Pilots from Air India and other airlines had earlier written to DGCA to stop BA tests since they aggravate the risk of getting infected. A senior Air India pilot said, “We wanted the government to stop BA tests completely for air crew, as it was done last year. The effect of the second wave in the country is huge and we are only risking our lives by conducting BA test even on a random basis.” DGCA, however, clarified that the new guidelines are temporary in view of Covid-19 and will remain in effect till three months. The restoration of provisions of Civil Aviation Requirements on this will be reviewed after three months.The regulator clarified that to ensure safety, every aviation personnel reporting for duty is required to submit an undertaking stating that he/she is not under the influence of alcohol and that he/she has not consumed alcohol in the last 12 hours from the time of reporting for duty. DGCA also mentioned that the undertaking must contain a warning that in case of violation of the undertaking, strict action, including off rostering and even suspension, will be taken by DGCA against such an individual. “Cockpit crew, cabin crew and ATCO shall submit the undertaking in the presence of medical staff, and the same shall be captured on camera,” stated the order. Mentioning the measures to be taken while conducting the test, DGCA said the test will be carried out in a bigger and an open area which has CCTV coverage. DGCA asked the doctor/paramedic/EMT/nurse to scan a person for symptoms of Covid-19 before carrying out BA test, and exempt him/her from the test if he is detected with any Covid-19 symptoms. “Such a person will undergo the required examination and will return to duty only after having been declared fit, records of which will be maintained,” the order stated. DGCA further clarified that such cases shall not be treated as missed BA cases.Asking the doctor/paramedic/EMT/nurse to take all precautions, DGCA stated they will have to take a rapid antigen test or any other test for Covid-19 as approved by the respective state government prior to joining the duty for BA testing. “The person doing the BA test should use a personal protective equipment (PPE) kit. The person undergoing the test should wash their hands before and after the BA test or use disposable gloves for handling the BA machine. Before every use, BA equipment should be sanitised using UV sterilisers. Integrity and sanitary condition of BA tubes/ mouthpiece should be maintained,” the order concluded.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/amid-second-wave-dgca-mandates-breath-analyser-test-for-crew-atco-101620931131780.html
14-05-2021||Mumbai||School fee hike issues resurface: Parents sign online petitions, demand action||With a large number of complaints concerning fee-related issues mainly including the ones related to fee hikes remaining unresolved, parents from the state have now resorted to signing online petitions. Over the last few days, parents from different parts of the state have signed petitions urging the government to address the issues of fee hikes in private schools. Recently, a group of parents from the city started a petition urging the Maharashtra government to reduce school fees by 50% during the pandemic, as the overall cost of operations have reduced due to school closures. “Parents have been protesting against exorbitant and unjustified fees charged by the schools for the year 2020-21 and 2021-22. They have lodged several complaints with the statutory authorities, met the education minister many times to get some concession in fees, but except false promises, nothing has been done till date,” said Jayant Jain, president of the Forum for Fairness in Education, a parents organisation that started the petition. So far, it has been signed by nearly 6,000 parents. Anubha Sahai, president of the Indiawide Parents Association said the Central government can have a comprehensive policy concerning private school fees. The government should come up with an amendment in the Right to Education (RTE) Act and include a provision for the regulation of fees. It should appoint a committee at the central level (Central fee regulatory committee) and state level (state fee regulatory committee). The committee at the central level should be an appellate body,” she added. A petition demanding the same which was started in 2018 is now doing the rounds on parent groups and is being re-endorsed by parents. Recently, the Maharashtra government had invited suggestions on amending the Maharashtra Educational Institutions (Regulation of Fee) Act, 2011. It received 2,825 suggestions, the majority of which are from parents. The government-appointed committee will now be examining the suggestions and will later give its report in this regard.A government resolution released on May 8, 2020, stated that schools should stay all fee hikes for the current academic year and have to allow parents to pay fees in instalments. The GR was, however, stayed by the Bombay high court on June 26, 2020, in response to a petition by several organisations of private school owners. The court lifted the stay in March this year and said that the state may initiate action against a school in case of complaints from parents or even take suo motu cognizance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/school-fee-hike-issues-resurface-parents-sign-online-petitions-demand-action-101620931072428.html
14-05-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Fraudsters dupe citizens on pretext of selling Covid drugs at cheaper rates||At a time when people are taking to various social media platforms to amplify SOS alerts in order to avail emergency medical help for needy Covid-19 patients, some are taking advantage of the ongoing crisis.The Maharashtra cyber police has launched a probe against some of such elements and registered an FIR (first information report) against unidentified cyber fraudsters who posed as representatives of pharma giant Cipla on social media and duped dozens of people across the country under the pretext of selling Remdesivir and Tocilizumab – two drugs used to treat Covid-19 – at cheaper rates. Cipla, which manufactures and distributes the two drugs in India, approached the Maharashtra cyber police with the complaint on Wednesday.“The company has provided the contact numbers of 38 individuals suspected to be involved in the racket and also details of 40 bank accounts belonging to them, to the police. The accounts are based in New Delhi, Maharashtra, Karnataka, Jammu and Kashmir, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and West Bengal The cyber police started freezing these accounts on Thursday,” said an officer.The racket came to light after the company’s corporate communications team received complaints from the relatives of Covid-19 patients claiming that its representatives had cheated them under the pretext of selling the medicines.Cipla’s manager Vrajesh Bajaj in his complaint stated that the “aggrieved people” informed his company that few people posted mobile numbers on various WhatsApp groups and social media platforms posing as ‘authorised’ dealers of the pharma company. When patients’ relatives contacted on the given phone numbers, the suspects would convey that the injections would be made available on the payment of 50% advance via online transaction. The rest of amount can be paid during the delivery of the drugs, the police said. The company’s corporate communication team was flooded with calls in which many people complained that after receiving the advance money, the suspects stopped responding to calls. Some also said they had received water and fake drugs which displayed the complainant’s company’s name and logo. Many citizens also complained on social media tagging the pharma company.The Maharashtra cyber police then initiated its investigation. “We would soon zero down on the suspects. Details of beneficiary accounts are also being obtained. The investigation is in progress,” said Yashasvi Yadav, inspector general of state cyber police. The police have registered an FIR under the relevant sections of the Information Technology Act, 2000, the Trademarks Act, 1999, and Drugs and Cosmetics Act, 1940.The Union health ministry has directed that the supply of Remdesivir and Tocilizumab can only be through authorised government and private hospitals and that no individual, distributor or retailer can sell these drugs to the public.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-fraudsters-dupe-citizens-on-pretext-of-selling-covid-drugs-at-cheaper-rates-101620931071864.html
14-05-2021||Gurugram||Vaccinations for 18-44 suspended, 8K doses left for 45+ in Gurugram||Covid-19 vaccinations for people in the 18 to 44 age category will be suspended on Friday as the district health department ran out of vaccine doses on Thursday, officials said. Inoculation of the second dose for those above 45 above will continue, but it is also likely to get affected if the district does not receive fresh stock from the state health administration by Friday night.“Both Covishield and Covaxin stocks for beneficiaries above 18 years are over. Therefore, no sessions have been planned for Friday. Only Covishield shots will be given to those aged 45 and above, waiting for their second shot. If the doses are not allocated tomorrow (on Friday), vaccination for 45 above will also be disrupted,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer.The district has been facing a shortage of vaccines since Tuesday, when the health department ran out of Covishield doses allocated for the 18-44 age group. Although the state health department provided 4,500 doses of Covaxin, the stock finished on Wednesday, following which the health department collated unused vials of Covisheild from various urban primary health centres. At least 3,982 people took their second dose at government sites and 50 at private hospitals on Thursday.On Thursday, at least 2,279 people in the 18-44 age group took their jabs at government health centres and 371 in private facilities. Only two private hospitals — Fortis and Max — are currently giving shots.“We have already demanded the state health department to provide the stock. We are not sure about the quantity of allocation as there has been an overall shortage,” said Dr MP Singh, district immunisation officer.According to Singh, there are about 8,000 doses left for the population above 45 years.Earlier on the day, Haryana health minister Anil Vij on Thursday said that the state government will float a global tender for the Covid-19 vaccines to ensure free vaccination for those aged between 18 and 44 years. He had recently said that about 11 million people in the state are in the 18-44 age bracket.Rajeev Arora, additional chief secretary, health, said, “In principle, it has been decided to float global tender for vaccines.”Even as the health department struggles with a shortage of vaccines, the health department is holding a drive-through vaccination drive at DLF City Mall on Friday. At least 200 doses will be administered to people above 45 years who are scheduled for their second dose.“It is a trial method as many vaccine beneficiaries have been complaining of getting exposed to coronavirus infection while standing in queues. It will be helpful for the elderly who cannot come directly to the health centres. They can sit in their cars and get vaccine shots. Once we receive enough vaccines, such drives will be held at multiple locations,” said Yadav.The drive is being held in collaboration with Park +, a mobile-based application that offers automated parking solutions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/vaccinations-for-18-44-suspended-8k-doses-left-for-45-101620927233424.html
14-05-2021||Pune||15 “phishers’ targeting US citizens busted in raid on Lonavla villa||PUNE The local crime branch of the Pune rural police busted a gang of 15 men who, inspired by the web series “Jamtara”, started an operation to dupe American citizens using phishing attacks.The 15 men were found in a villa in Indrayani Society, Waksai, Lonavla, in a late-night raid on Wednesday. The men had rented the property for ₹40,000 per month and had been duping American citizens using voicemails since the beginning of the first lockdown in the country, according to the police.The 15 people were identified as Abhinav Deepal Kumar; Babu Raju Singh; Abhishek Sanjay Singh; Mohammad Zama Akhtarhusain Mirzi; and Shantanu Sham Chhari, all residents of Mira road in Thane; Nilesh Yelji Patel; Shahid Shoeb Shaikh; Imtekhab Nijamuddin Sheikh; and Shailesh Sanjay Upadhyay, all residents of Malad, Mumbai; Ninad Nandlal Devlekar, a resident of Badlapur East in Thane; Rakesh Arun Jha, a resident of Mansarovar in Navi Mumbai; Deep Prince Chakravarty a resident of Nalasopara West in Thane; Vinod Subhashchandra Ray, a resident of Virar West, Thane; Gaurav Devendra Varma, a resident of Vikroli in Mumbai; and Vinayak Dhanraj Uchedar, a resident of Kandivali East, Mumbai, according to the police.“They are all Class 12 failures. They changed passwords and deleted some files when they realised that a raid was underway. We have no way of knowing exactly how many people they must have duped,” said senior inspector Padmakar Ghanwat of Pune rural police.The owner of the house was identified as Kaushal Jagdish Rajpurohit, who lives in a separate location in Lonavla.“The house owner was not in the house when we found these people. There were plants of ganja on the plot that he owns. So NDPS sections have been invoked,” said PI Ghanwat.A case under Sections 419 of Indian Penal COde, Section 66(c), 66, and 75 of the Information Technology Act, along with Section 8(c), 20(b)(ii), 20(a) of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act has been registered at Lonavla rural police station on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/15-phishers-targeting-us-citizens-busted-in-raid-on-lonavla-villa-101620918350876.html
14-05-2021||Pune||Misuse of state funds for CSWs: Pune police arrest five||PUNE A week after HT reported how funds meant for sex workers (CSWs) as part of assistance offered by government during lockdown had been siphoned, Pune police arrested five persons in the case on Thursday. According to officials, an FIR has been filed against six persons, including three women from KayaKalp, an NGO. The complaint accuses the six of diverting the state funds. As per the complaint the accused took ₹10,000 out of every ₹15,000 they accessed, on the pretext of paying government officials. Dattawadi police arrested Gauri Gurang (32), a resident of Dhanakwadi; Savita Karishma Lashkare (26), and Sarika Lashkare (30), both residents of Yerawada; Amol Mali (25), and Mahesh Ghadsingh (20). The sixth suspect, identified with a last name as Sonawane, is currently not traceable, said police. “The accused were produced before the court which remanded them to police custody till May 17,” said assistant public prosecutor Kiran Bendhar. The state government had released ₹7.94 crore to be transferred to 5,296 bank accounts belonging to sex workers in Pune based on a Supreme Court order that victims of the flesh trade be compensated by the administration with provision of foodgrains and cash. The court ruled that no documentary proof must be taken from victims while delivering the welfare measures. HT reported that how part of funds went to the bank accounts of women not CSWs, living in Annabhau Sathe nagar, Tarawade vasti, and Mohammadwadi. “The Dattawadi police conducted an inquiry of 75 women and found out that 6,000 sex workers were eligible for the funds. We have spoken to 75 women who were not sex workers and yet, were paid this amount. We are now investigating the list provided by Kaya Kalp to see how many of the women registered are genuine sex workers,” said police inspector Krishna Indalkar, an investigating official in the case. Pune district collector Rajesh Deshmukh has also ordered n inquiry under sub-divisional magistrate Santosh Kumar Deshmukh. “I have spoken to 20 of the women that the police inquired into and they all pointed to an individual running an Aids control organisation. We are preparing the data which will be presented to the collector on Monday,” said Deshmukh. Saheli Sangh, an NGO, and the National Network of Sex Workers (India), have meanwhile protested and condemned the corruption. “We have been conducting a rapid assessment survey among the 2,000-odd sex workers in Budhwar peth and so far, we have covered 358 women of which 138 are saying they did not receive the money even after submitting documents,” said Tejasvi Sevekari of Saheli Sangh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/police-arrest-5-for-misappropriation-of-state-funds-meant-for-csws-101620916130808.html
14-05-2021||World||One in three US workers changed or lost jobs in past year||More than a third of US workers changed employers or lost their jobs since the start of the pandemic, double the typical level in the previous two decades, according to a study.Among workers who had a job in February 2020, almost 37% were no longer with their employer a year later, according to a paper by Alexander Bick of Arizona State University and Adam Blandin of Virginia Commonwealth University. Almost 26% had a different employer, and the remaining 11% were out of a job.The historically high level of churn, or rate of change, underscores the colossal challenge of bringing back millions of people to the labor market as the economy reopens.Millions of workers who lost their jobs in the spring of 2020 were back at work in March this year, and the paper implies that the recovery is largely due to people finding new jobs, rather returning to their old employers.“Shocks in the initial months of the pandemic may have permanently destroyed a large share of employer-worker matches, many of which may have been highly productive,” the authors wrote. “Because highly productive matches are costly to find, the economic disruption induced by Covid-19 may have induced persistent reductions in productivity and employment.”For people who had been at their job for less than two years before the pandemic, the churn was much higher, according to the study. Almost 62% had separated from their workers a year later, versus about 16% for those who had been employed by the same firm for at least a decade.This could help explain the current labor shortage, especially in the restaurant, entertainment and hotel industries, which lost the most jobs during the pandemic and are now struggling to hire fast to meet brisk demand. Turnover is traditionally high in those sectors.All economic crises result in job losses. But the most striking difference during the pandemic is that a quarter of workers had a new employer a year after Covid-19 hit, said Bick and Blandin, who use a benchmark US Census Bureau population dataset as the basis of an online survey to collect labor data in real-time. That’s almost twice as large as the next highest rate, about 13% in 1997.“Generally, some amount of labor market churn is healthy because it indicates employers and workers alike feel confident they can find the right job and employee match,” said Daniel Zhao, an economist at the employment site Glassdoor. “However, churn is currently elevated due to the lingering hangover from the ongoing pandemic. We’re nowhere near a recovered labor market where workers are quitting out of confidence rather than need.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/one-in-three-us-workers-changed-or-lost-jobs-in-past-year-101621015756845.html
14-05-2021||World||B.1.617 Covid variant, first detected in India, threatens UK reopening plans: PM||The UK will speed up its coronavirus vaccine program to combat a surge in cases of the India variant after Prime Minister Boris Johnson warned the new strain could derail his plan to end lockdown.Speaking in London, the premier announced the gap between first and second doses will be cut to eight weeks from 12 for the over-50s and clinically vulnerable. Anyone over 40 who hasn’t yet come forward for a shot will also be prioritized. While plans to allow people to mix indoors and travel overseas will go ahead from Monday, there is a real danger that the final stage of ending pandemic restrictions on June 21 could be delayed, Johnson said.“I have to level with you that this new variant could pose a serious disruption to our progress,” the premier at a press conference in London. “The race between our vaccination program and the virus may be about to become a great deal tighter.”The grim assessment is a sobering moment for the UK which has been riding a wave of upbeat news on the success of its vaccine rollout, with two-thirds of adults now having received at least one dose.Danger AheadIt is also a political headache for the premier, who is facing opposition from members of Parliament his own Conservative party to any moves to delay unlocking the economy. Johnson has defended his “cautious” approach to ensure that lifting restrictions, saying he wanted each step to be “irreversible,” making the lockdown at the start of the year the country’s last.The number of confirmed infections of the India strain more than doubled in the past week to 1,313 from 520, according to Public Health England. There has been a particular cluster of cases in northwestern English towns of Bolton, Blackburn and Darwen.While there’s no evidence the India variant can evade vaccines, there are signs that it spreads more easily than the Kent mutation which ran rampant in the UK at the start of the year, prompting a third national lockdown.Advisers warned they expect the India strain to become dominant in the UK over time. There’s a “realistic possibility” that the new variant is 50% more transmissible than the current dominant strain of coronavirus, according to a paper released on Friday from the government’s scientific advisors.If that’s the case and the UK proceeds with its plans to unlock, it could “lead to a substantial resurgence of hospitalization,” the document said.Johnson said the government expects to press ahead with the next phase of easing restrictions on Monday because the overall numbers of India cases are low. Monday’s relaxation in the rules will bring the return of international leisure travel, and the reopening of pubs and restaurants indoors.But he warned that if the India strain is “significantly more transmissible we are likely to face some hard choices” about what happens next. He appealed to the public to continue to get tested for free twice a week and to stick to social distancing rules.“It’s very clear now we are going to have to live with this new variant of the virus as well for some time,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/b1617-covid-variant-first-detected-in-india-threatens-uk-reopening-plans-pm-101621015186191.html
14-05-2021||World||Delegation of Afghan govt, Taliban discuss peace in Qatar||The Afghan government's negotiating team and the Taliban leadership met in Qatar on Friday to discuss speeding up peace talks, after months of stalled negotiations, officials on both sides said."Today a meeting was held in Doha between the delegations of both negotiating sides," the Afghan government's peace team tweeted.The parties "emphasized speeding up the peace talks in Doha", it added.In a similar statement posted to Twitter, the Taliban said "both sides agreed to continue the talks after (Eid al-Fitr)".A three-day ceasefire agreed by the warring sides came into force on Thursday to mark the Muslim holiday of Eid, after weeks of deadly violence.Despite unprecedented talks opening in September in Qatar, they have struggled to make headway.Turkey was scheduled to hold an Afghanistan conference in late April but it was postponed indefinitely because the Taliban declined to attend.They were protesting a delay in the US withdrawal from Afghanistan, which Washington pushed back from May 1 to September 11.Since foreign troops started the final withdrawal from Afghanistan, government forces and the Taliban have engaged in fierce fighting, especially in the south of the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/delegation-of-afghan-govt-taliban-discuss-peace-in-qatar-101621014968771.html
14-05-2021||World||Access to Covid-19 vaccines: India, US hold talks on waiver at WTO||Indian commerce minister Piyush Goyal and his US counterpart Katherine Tai discussed on Friday negotiations at the World Trade Organisation (WTO), on a proposal put forward by India and South Africa to temporarily waive intellectual property rights on Covid-19 vaccines, to ensure equitable access to them around the world.US trade representative Tai reaffirmed US “commitment” to help India during its time of need, her office said in a readout of the virtual conversation. She told Goyal the US support for the waiver and text-based negotiations at the WTO is a part of the Biden-Harris administration’s “comprehensive effort to expand vaccine manufacturing and distribution around the world”.Tai announced US support for the proposal last week under mounting pressure from other WTO member countries and democrats at home.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/access-to-covid-19-vaccines-india-us-hold-talks-on-waiver-at-wto-101621015080493.html
14-05-2021||World||Indian variant more transmissible than UK variant: British chief medical officer||British scientists now believe that the coronavirus variant originating in India is more transmissible than a variant first found in the English county of Kent, Chris Whitty, England's chief medical officer, said on Friday."There is now confidence ... that this variant is more transmissible that B.1.1.7 (Kent variant), now the question in practical terms over the next two to three weeks is is this somewhat more transmissible than B.1.1.7. or is this a lot more transmissible and that will have implications for the long-term prospects of this epidemic in the UK and indeed the pandemic internationally," he told a news conference.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/indian-variant-more-transmissible-than-uk-variant-british-chief-medical-officer-101621011666552.html
14-05-2021||World||‘Moral catastrophe’: WHO slams rich nations for vaccinating kids, urges them to donate jabs to Covax||The World Health Organization (WHO) on Friday urged wealthy countries to stop inoculating children and adolescents against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and instead donate vaccines to poorer nations. WHO director-general Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus criticised the move by some rich countries to vaccinate lower risk groups, calling it a “moral catastrophe.” Dr Tedros highlighted that vaccine supply in lower- and lower-middle-income countries has not been enough to vaccinate even health care workers.“In January, I spoke about the potential unfolding of a moral catastrophe. Unfortunately, we are now witnessing this play out,” the WHO chief told a press briefing.“In a handful of rich countries, which bought up the majority of the vaccine supply, lower-risk groups are now being vaccinated,” he added, in a criticism apparently directed towards the United States which is now planning to vaccinate 12- to 15-year-olds.The US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) on Wednesday recommended expanded usage of Pfizer-BioNtech Covid-19 vaccine for 12- to 15-year-olds after the Food and Drug Administration authorised its emergency use for that age group. CDC director Dr Rochelle Walensky said in a statement that though most children with Covid-19 have mild or no symptoms, some children can get severely ill and require hospitalisation.“This official CDC action opens vaccination to approximately 17 million adolescents in the United States and strengthens our nation’s efforts to protect even more people from the effects of Covid-19,” the statement read.Also Read | Covid-19 pandemic to be 'far more deadly' this year, WHO warnsDr Tedros recalled how the health agency was labelled by some as alarmist when it warned about the threat of vaccine nationalism. The fact that so many health workers, who have been fighting the pandemic for more than a year, are still not immunised against the deadly virus is a “sad reflection on the gross distortion in access to vaccines across the globe,” he lamented.“I understand why some countries want to vaccinate their children and adolescents, but right now I urge them to reconsider and to instead donate vaccines to COVAX,” said the WHO director-general, adding that, at present, only 0.3% of vaccine supply is going to low-income countries.Dr Tedros termed the Covid-19 situation in India “hugely concerning” as several states continue to record a “worrying number of cases, hospitalisations and deaths.” He said that the UN health agency has shipped thousands of oxygen concentrators, tents for mobile field hospitals, masks and other medical supplies to help India in its fight against Covid-19. He went on to add that it’s not only India that has emergency needs as countries like Nepal, Sri Lanka, and Vietnam are also dealing with spikes in cases and hospitalisations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/who-slams-countries-for-vaccinating-kids-urges-to-donate-jabs-to-poor-nations-101621010032631.html
14-05-2021||World||Covid-19 pandemic to be 'far more deadly' this year, WHO warns||World health experts issued a grim warning Friday that the second year of Covid-19 was set to be "far more deadly", as Japan extended a state of emergency amid growing calls for the Olympics to be scrapped."We're on track for the second year of this pandemic to be far more deadly than the first," said the World Health Organization's director-general Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus.The mood also darkened in Japan where the coronavirus state of emergency took in another three regions just 10 weeks before the Olympics, while campaigners submitted a petition with more than 350,000 signatures calling for the Games to be cancelled.With Tokyo and other areas already under emergency orders until the end of May, Hiroshima, Okayama and northern Hokkaido, which will host the Olympic marathon, will now join them.The move to combat a fourth wave putting Japan's medical system under strain comes with public opinion firmly opposed to holding the Games this summer.Kenji Utsunomiya, once candidate for Tokyo governor, urged Games organisers to "prioritise life" over ceremony as he submitted the petition to capital authorities.The pandemic has killed at least 3,346,813 people worldwide since the virus first emerged in late 2019, according to an AFP tally of official data.There was bad news for Taiwan too with the capital indefinitely closing down entertainment venues, libraries and sports centres in the wake of an outbreak of infections first detected among pilots.The island has been a global leader in containing the pandemic, with just 1,290 confirmed cases and 12 deaths.Taipei's decision, effective from Saturday, covers bars, dance clubs, karaoke lounges, nightclubs, saunas and Internet cafés as well as hostess clubs and teahouses.- Sputnik vaccines reach India -India meanwhile started deploying Russia's Sputnik V coronavirus vaccine, the first foreign-made shot to be used in the country that has been reeling from an explosion in cases and deaths.The first token batch of Sputnik vaccines -- reportedly 150,000 doses -- arrived on May 1 and a second delivery is expected in the next few days.A number of leading India-based drugmakers have agreements for local production of Sputnik V with the aim to produce over 850 million doses of the jab per year.India has been adding roughly as many new Covid cases daily as the rest of the world put together.More than 260,000 Indians have died, according to official figures.But in Europe, tourist hotspots are opening up.Greece kickstarted its tourism season on Friday, hoping to reverse last year's miserable summer."I hope to forget this damn Covid," said Jil Wirries, a 28-year old student from Hanover, Germany, collecting luggage on the island of Crete."Everything is terrible in Germany... people are depressed... I'm so happy to be here."France and Spain launched tourism campaigns this week too while Italy said Friday it was scrapping a quarantine requirement for visitors from the EU, Britain and Israel who test negative for the coronavirus.And in the US, the top health agency on Thursday said it was lifting mask-wearing guidance for fully vaccinated people.- 'Milestone' -Biden declared a major victory in the battle against the virus that has seen more than 580,000 Americans die."I think it's a great milestone, a great day," he said.Some, however, said they would continue to wear their masks out of caution."I'm still going to wear a mask inside," said Mubarak Dahir, a 57-year-old tourist in the capital Washington, visiting from Florida. "I think it's premature, it's a little dangerous to believe that we are that far already."Almost 60 percent of US adults have now received one or more doses, while cases are falling fast, down to a seven-day-average of 38,000 or 11 per 100,000.And the US campaign to vaccinate adolescents aged 12-to-15 began Thursday in earnest following the authorisation of the Pfizer vaccine in this age group.But Friday, the WHO urged wealthy countries to stop vaccinating children and instead donate doses to poorer nations."I understand why some countries want to vaccinate their children and adolescents, but right now I urge them to reconsider and to instead donate vaccines to Covax," said WHO chief Tedros.- Portugal to let fans in -Covid continues to sow turmoil in the world of sport, with the May 29 Champions League Final between Manchester City and Chelsea shifted from Istanbul to Porto.Portugal announced Friday that British tourists and football fans will be allowed in.The Turkish Grand Prix, which was only drafted onto the Formula One calendar as a replacement for the cancelled Canada GP two weeks ago, was itself axed on Friday.Formula One chiefs announced they will instead return to the sport's safe haven of Austria.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid19-pandemic-to-be-far-more-deadly-this-year-who-warns-101621007473002.html
14-05-2021||World||US House panel reaches agreement to form bipartisan commission on January 6 riot||The top Democratic and Republican members of the House Homeland Security Committee have reached an agreement on legislation to form a bipartisan commission to investigate the Jan. 6 attack on the U.S. Capitol. The measure had stalled amid partisan differences.Under the terms of the agreement announced Friday, the commission would have an equal number of Democrats and Republicans, five from each party. It would have subpoena power and be charged with issuing a final report by Dec. 31, along recommendations to prevent future attacks.House Speaker Nancy Pelosi said the legislation could be considered by the House “as soon as next week,” along with a spending bill to pay for security improvements to the Capitol. Lawmakers are considering how to toughen security after hundreds of President Donald Trump's supporters pushed past police on Jan. 6, broke in through windows and doors and sent lawmakers fleeing for their lives. The commission bill also needs Senate approval.For months, Republican and Democratic lawmakers have been at odds over the scope and makeup of the commission with GOP leaders — including Senate Republican Leader Mitch McConnell — saying the investigation should focus not just on the Jan. 6 insurrection, but also on violence after the death of George Floyd while in police custody.It’s unclear how many Republicans will vote for the commission. House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy said after the announcement that he had not read the details yet and did not signal whether he would support it.The insurrection is an increasingly fraught subject in the House GOP conference. While almost every Republican member condemned the violent mob that day, and many criticized Trump for his role in egging them on, a growing number of them have downplayed the attack as time has gone on. At a h earing investigating the siege this week, several members denied that there was an insurrection at all.The House impeached Trump one week after the insurrection for telling his supporters to “fight like hell” in a speech just before the attack. The Senate acquitted him in February.Like the 9/11 Commission that investigated the terrorist attacks on the U.S. a decade ago, the commission will granted authority to issue subpoenas to secure information to carry out its investigation, but it requires the agreement of both the chairman and vice chairman of the commission, or through a majority vote.“It is imperative that we seek the truth of what happened on January 6 with an independent, bipartisan 9/11-type Commission to examine and report upon the facts, causes and security relating to the terrorist mob attack,” Pelosi said.House Homeland Security Chairman Chairman Bennie Thompson, D-Miss., said lawmakers “owe it to the Capitol Police” to conduct a thorough investigation of the attack.“Inaction — or just moving on — is simply not an option," Thompson said. “The creation of this commission is our way of taking responsibility for protecting the U.S. Capitol."Thompson negotiated the bill with Republican John Katko of New York. Katko was one of 10 House Republicans who voted to impeach Trump in January.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-house-panel-reaches-agreement-to-form-bipartisan-commission-on-january-6-riot-101621005392584.html
14-05-2021||World||Trump tightens grip on Republican party||Former US president Donald Trump has tightened his grip on the Republican party, engineering the election of an ally to a key leadership position in the House conference on Thursday as he plans, according to a report, to start addressing rallies next month.Elise Stefanik, a Trump ally, was easily elected chair of the House Republican conference with the strong backing of the former president. She will be the No 3 Republican in the House, replacing Liz Cheney, who was among the 10 Republicans who voted to impeach him in January and whose ouster was driven by the former president.“Congratulations to Elise Stefanik for her Big and Overwhelming victory!” Trump said. He had given her “complete” and “total” endorsement earlier and had reiterated support for her on Thursday, on election eve, and attacked her opponent Chip Roy.Since leaving office, the former president has sought to retain a tight grip on the Republican party, after fending off initial backlash triggered by his role in inciting the January 6 insurrection at the US Capitol, which houses both chambers of the Congress. Critics and opponents have been forced to fall in line, such as Kevin McCarthy, the top House Republican; or give up, such as Mitch McConnell, the top Senate Republican; or who have been ousted or sidelined, such as Cheney.Unlike past US presidents, who retire from public life mostly, Trump has kept himself in, through statements fired at the same rate as posts on Twitter and Facebook, before the social media platforms banished him. He has also done interviews on friendly TV networks such as Fox and Newsmax.And now New York Post, another supportive media outlet, has reported that Trump plans to start addressing his signature rallies, with two planned for June and on around July 4 holiday. His team is said to be working on the details of the venue and timing.Trump has not yet revealed his plans for another run for the White House, but he told a news publication last week that he is “enthused” by the possibility of it. His favourability ratings remain high among Republicans - at 82% and77%, according two recent polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-tightens-grip-on-republican-party-101621005360244.html
14-05-2021||World||House Republicans elect Trump defender Elise Stefanik to No. 3 post after Liz Cheney's ouster||Republicans vaulted Rep. Elise Stefanik into the ranks of House leadership Friday, electing an ardent Donald Trump defender in hopes of calming their searing civil war over the deposed Rep. Liz Cheney's unremitting combat with the former president.Stefanik, R-N.Y., a moderate turned Trump loyalist who's given voice to many of his false claims about election fraud, was elected as expected to the No. 3 post that Cheney, R-Wyo., held for over two years.Backed by Trump and the House’s top two Republicans, Stefanik defeated challenger Rep. Chip Roy, R-Texas, by 134-46 in a secret ballot vote conducted behind closed doors. A member of the conservative House Freedom Caucus, Roy was a prohibitive long shot whose candidacy seemed a signal to GOP leaders that hard-right Republicans expect a robust voice moving forward.Stefanik, 36, gives Republicans a chance to try changing the subject from the acrimonious fight over the defiant Cheney by installing a Trump loyalist — and one of the party’s relative handful of women in Congress — in a visible role.But GOP schisms are unlikely to vanish quickly. Many hard-right conservatives have misgivings about Stefanik’s centrist voting record, tensions remain raw over Trump’s taut hold on the party and Cheney’s rancorous ouster, and Cheney has said she will remain a vocal foe of Trump.Also Read | Liz Cheney faces blowback for vote to impeach TrumpAt a time when Cheney and other anti-Trump Republicans are trying to pull the party away from him, Stefanik reaffirmed her view of his importance, underscoring his continued sway within the party.“Voters determine the leader of the Republican Party, and President Trump is the leader that they look to," she told reporters after the vote. She added, “He is an important voice in the Republican Party and we look forward to working with him.”Stefanik thanked her colleagues after her election, citing the Revolutionary War battlefield at Saratoga, New York, near her home. Describing themes similar to those Republicans often emphasize, Stefanik said Americans there fought for “liberty, freedom and a limited government,” according to a person who provided the comments on condition of anonymity.Trump issued a statement congratulating Stefanik, adding, “The House GOP is united and the Make America Great Again movement is Strong!"Roy had said he was running because Stefanik's voting record was too moderate and he didn't want Republicans to affirm the party leader's chosen candidate without a fight. After the vote, he downplayed GOP divisions.“We had a great spirited debate," he told reporters. He added, “Now we’re going to get busy, pointing out how the Democratic Party is destroying America.”Republicans booted Cheney out of leadership this week for repeatedly rebuking Trump for encouraging supporters who attacked the U.S. Capitol on Jan. 6 and for his lie that his 2020 reelection was stolen from him by fraudulent voting.She has defiantly said she will continue lambasting Trump, who remains potent within the GOP, and would work to defeat him should he mount a 2024 bid to return to the White House.Stefanik got an early start lining up votes to succeed Cheney, a decisive factor in leadership races. She’s also backed by Trump and House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy, R-Calif., plus two of the House’s most influential conservatives: No. 2 House GOP leader Steve Scalise of Louisiana and Rep. Jim Jordan, R-Ohio.Cheney, a daughter of former Vice President Dick Cheney and an ambitious GOP force in her own right, was among 10 House Republicans who voted this year to impeach Trump for inciting the Capitol riot. Since then, she’s battled Trump often and many Republicans ultimately turned against her, arguing that the dispute was a damaging distraction.Stefanik has told colleagues she’d serve in the leadership job only through next year, according to a GOP lawmaker and an aide who spoke on condition of anonymity last week to discuss internal conversations. After that, she’d take the top GOP spot on the House Education and Labor Committee, which some consider a more powerful position because it can produce legislation on important issues.Stefanik is a four-term lawmaker from an upstate New York district that in the past four presidential elections backed both Trump and Barack Obama twice. She was a Trump critic during his 2016 campaign, calling his videotaped comments on sexually assaulting women “just wrong” and at times avoiding stating his name, local news reports said.Her voting record is among the most moderate of all House Republicans’, according to conservative groups’ ratings. She opposed Trump’s marquee 2017 tax cuts and his efforts to divert budget funds to build a wall along the Mexican border.She hurtled to GOP prominence — and Trump’s attention — by defending him in 2019 during his first impeachment over his efforts to pressure Ukraine to produce political dirt on Joe Biden, a Democratic presidential contender at the time.She has remained a Trump booster and joined him in casting doubt on the validity of the 2020 election, despite findings by judges and local officials that there was no evidence of widespread fraud. Hours after the Capitol attack, she voted against formally approving Pennsylvania’s state-certified electoral votes.Trump reiterated his support for Stefanik and opposition to Roy on Thursday. Roy ran afoul of Trump in January when he voted to formally certify Trump’s Electoral College defeat, saying the Constitution left “no authority for Congress” to overrule states’ handling of the election.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/house-gop-elects-trump-defender-elise-stefanik-to-no-3-leadership-position-101621003246756.html
14-05-2021||World||Google leads 30 companies to preserve work permit for H-1B spouses, Pichai says ‘proud to support immigrants’||Alphabet Inc’s Google on Friday said that it is leading nearly 30 companies and trade organisations to oppose a lawsuit that seeks to stop thousands of spouses of foreign workers on H-1B visa from working in the United States. Catherine Lacavera, V-P, Legal at Google, said in a blog post that a fair immigration system is necessary to preserve America’s “laudable history" of welcoming immigrants from different parts of the world and “to fuel a virtuous cycle of innovation.”“Unfortunately, an impending court case is putting both at risk at the most inopportune moment,” wrote Lacavera, an immigrant herself.The spouses of H-1B visa holders, a majority from India and China, receive H-4 visas and only in certain cases, they can apply for an employment authorization document. Earlier, the work permit was usually given to H-4 visa holders where their H-1B spouses were well on track to receive a permanent resident card, also known as a green card.Also Read | Lawsuit filed against delay in processing of EADs for H-1B spouses and L1 visasBut decades of backlog in green card prompted the Obama administration, in 2015, to introduce the H-4 Employment Authorisation Document (EAD) rule. It proved extremely useful for families struggling to survive on a single income. However, Save Jobs USA, a group of IT workers who claim they lost jobs to H-1B workers, filed a lawsuit the same year to end the issuing of H-4 EAD for such spouses of H-1B visa holders.The lawsuit was delayed as the previous administration, under President Donald Trump, considered rescinding the H-4 work rule. But the axe never came and the US department of homeland security (DHS) formally withdrew the move after President Joe Biden took office. Now both the plaintiffs and the Biden administration are seeking summary judgement in the case.Also Read | Biden administration to let H-1B spouses work: What it meansLacavera said that the H-4 EAD program provides work authorization to spouses of more than 90,000 H-1B visa holders, of which 90 per cent are women. The coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic has already disproportionately impacted women and ending this program would only make things worse, she added.“To support this important program, we are leading an amicus brief with nearly 30 companies and organizations to preserve and protect the H-4 EAD program,” Lacavera announced, adding that it would otherwise hurt families and undercut the US economy at a critical moment.Google chief executive Sundar Pichai said that the company is proud to support the immigrants working in the US. Taking to Twitter, Pichai, an immigrant from India, said that they have joined 30 other companies to protect a program that “spurs innovation, creates jobs and opportunities, and helps families.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/google-leads-30-companies-to-preserve-work-permit-for-h-1b-spouses-101621001574707.html
14-05-2021||World||Russia declares independent media outlet VTimes 'foreign agent'||Russia's justice ministry on Friday declared online news outlet VTimes a "foreign agent" media organisation, a move that will require it to label itself as such and subject it to increased scrutiny by the authorities.VTimes was set up last year by a group of journalists who quit Vedomosti, a top Russian business newspaper, after accusing their new editor-in-chief of introducing pro-Kremlin censorship.VTimes and its publisher, Alexander Gubsky, did not immediately respond to a request for comment.Russia uses the "foreign agent" designation to label foreign-funded organisations it says are engaged in political activity. The term carries negative Soviet-era connotations and subjects those designated to heightened bureaucratic scrutiny.It requires outlets to publish 24-word disclaimers saying their publications are distributed by a media outlet "fulfilling the function of a foreign agent".Last month Russia applied the label to Meduza, a popular independent news site, in a move the company says is destroying its business and hindering its ability to practise journalism.U.S. broadcaster Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty has also received the designation and has been fined heavily for flouting it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/russia-declares-independent-media-outlet-vtimes-foreign-agent-101620996705581.html
14-05-2021||World||UK may ‘flex’ vaccine program to curb spread of coronavirus variant from India||The U.K. could speed up vaccinations in districts that have seen surges in Covid-19 infections linked to the highly transmissible India variant, in a bid to prevent the disease getting out of control again.Prime Minister Boris Johnson will hold a press conference at 5 p.m. Friday, with the focus expected to be on vaccinations and testing rather than imposing local lockdowns to contain outbreaks at this stage.Cases of the B.1.617.2 strain -- the variant that originated in India -- have risen to 1,313 from 520 over the past week, according to Public Health England. While there is no evidence it is able to evade the vaccines, PHE assessed it is “at least as transmissible” as the so-called Kent variant that took hold in December, precipitating the U.K.’s third lockdown in January.Johnson has vowed to proceed with easing the national lockdown in England from Monday, with people allowed to meet indoors in homes, pubs and restaurants. But the recent rise in infections could mean he is forced to delay plans to lift all legal limits on social contact on June 21.The premier said Thursday he is “anxious” about the spread of the variant.Tory ConflictAny slowing of the lockdown easing “roadmap” would risk putting Johnson into conflict with members of his own Conservative Party, who have been agitating for a faster reopening amid a vaccination program that’s one of the most advanced in the world.Surge testing is already being carried out in areas including Bolton, in northwest England, and parts of London. Local leaders in Greater Manchester and Lancashire have been calling for “surge vaccinations” to ensure younger people are protected.The government has repeatedly pointed to guidance from the Joint Committee on Vaccination and Immunization, which prioritizes older age groups over the young. The national program is currently reaching people in their late 30s.The Department for Health and Social Care said late Thursday ministers are considering bringing forward planned second vaccine doses for eligible groups.Rapid RolloutAt present, the U.K. allows for up to 12 weeks between first and second doses. Almost 36 million people have had their first dose, of whom almost 19 million have had a second dose. That leaves 17 million people whose second doses could be brought forward if the government decides to change policy.“While there is no firm evidence yet to show this variant has any greater impact on severity of disease or evades the vaccine, the speed of growth is concerning,” the department said. The government “will not hesitate to take further action if necessary,” Health Secretary Matt Hancock said in a statement.That could include local restrictions or “flexing” the vaccination program, Zahawi told Sky News Friday. “But we think that the roadmap for Monday remains in place because the vaccines are delivering because they’re keeping people out of hospital.”From Monday, cinemas and theaters in England will also be allowed to reopen, and international holidays will no longer be illegal.Wales will also ease restrictions Monday, and people will be able to go on overseas holidays. But First Minister Mark Drakeford said his “strong advice” is that “this is the year to stay at home and enjoy all that Wales has to offer.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-may-flex-vaccine-program-to-curb-spread-of-coronavirus-variant-from-india-101620996382975.html
14-05-2021||World||US officials confirm 130 cases of ‘Havana syndrome’, mysterious brain injury, as CIA probes cause||More than 130 US officials have been impacted by the “mysterious” episodes that precipitated unexplained brain injury known as ‘Havana syndrome’, according to a New York Times report. The officials afflicted by Havana syndrome include US diplomats, spies and defence officials who were on overseas assignments.According to the US daily, three officers from the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) had reported serious symptoms since December 2020, requiring treatment at the Walter Reed military hospital in Washington. These health incidents first came to light in late 2016 when US embassy staff in Havana, Cuba, began to report an unusual set of symptoms, with some of the cases beginning with the sudden onset of loud noise.A year later, a US diplomat in the Chinese city of Guangzhou started experiencing unexplained symptoms, including headache and memory problems. The US State Department had requested the National Academy of Sciences to assess the cause and the latter came up with a report that suggested the mysterious head injuries were consistent with the use of directed microwave energy.“The committee felt that these acute symptoms were more consistent with a directed radio frequency (RF) energy attack, and explored possible related mechanisms,” the report said.The number of cases reported in the NYT is around 70 more than previously acknowledged. Quoting sources in the Pentagon, the report hinted at the possible involvement of Russian military intelligence agency GRU behind some of these episodes.Also Read | Mysterious injuries suffered by US diplomats in China, Cuba likely caused by microwave energy: StudyThe US lawmakers on the Senate Intelligence Committee recently said that the cases appear to be increasing and the committee was investigating the suspected “directed" radio frequency attacks. The CIA has created a cell to collect more information on these suspected attacks.Democratic Senator Mark Warner and Republican Marco Rubio, who led the committee, issued a statement late last month, saying the pattern of attacking "our fellow citizens serving our government appears to be increasing". The two senators noted that it was “important "to better understand the technology behind the weapon responsible for these attacks”, welcoming the renewed probe by the CIA."Ultimately we will identify those responsible for these attacks on American personnel and will hold them accountable," they said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-officials-confirm-130-cases-of-havana-syndrome-as-cia-probes-cause-report-101620992580555.html
14-05-2021||World||2 Indian men freed from detention van after protest in Scotland||Two Indian men being held in a detention van on “suspected immigration offences” walked free with the help of a human rights lawyer after an eight-hour protest by their neighbours in the Scottish city of Glasgow.Sumit Sehdev, a chef, and Lakhvir Singh, a mechanic, both in their 30s, have reportedly been in the UK for 10 years.Six UK Immigration Enforcement officers, backed by Police Scotland, removed them from their home in the Pollokshields area of Glasgow on Thursday and put them into a van heading to a detention centre, but were soon surrounded by a large crowd of protesters determined to free them.“This was a cynical and provocative action by the Home Office to do it on the day of Eid. To be honest, they don’t give a damn about the lives of these people, but the people of Glasgow do,” Aamer Anwar, a Pakistani-origin human rights lawyer, told ‘ITV News’.“This city is built on the backs of refugees, people who’ve given their blood, sweat and tears to build this city. We stand firmly with these men,” he said.Lakhvir Singh spoke in Punjabi about how he feared for what would happen when the officers took them into custody in the van and tearfully thanked the people of his neighbourhood for turning out to support them.The duo then walked down the street with Anwar towards the local mosque, with the estimated hundreds gathered cheering and clapping, waving placards that read “refugees are welcome”.Videos posted across the social media channels showed protesters chanting “Leave our neighbours, let them go” and “Cops go home” during the nearly eight-hour-long standoff.This is the moment that People Power forced the release of Sumit Sehdev and Lakhvir Singh.They were detained following a Home Office Immigration raid during Eid - with the power of solidarity and humanity the people of Glasgow mobilised and said NO pic.twitter.com/bDCKI0UwdF"The Home Office needs to ask itself hard questions after today. Doing this on Eid, in the heart of our Muslim community, and in the midst of a serious Covid outbreak was staggeringly irresponsible — but the even deeper problem is an appalling asylum and immigration policy,” said Scotland First Minister Nicola Sturgeon on Twitter, who had appealed directly with the UK Home Office to stand down.A Home Office statement said the operation was “conducted in relation to suspected immigration offences”.Eventually, Police Scotland said it had to make an operational decision to protect the “safety, public health and well-being” and the two men were released on bail and returned home to their families.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/2-indian-men-freed-from-detention-van-after-protest-in-scotland-101620992544818.html
14-05-2021||World||Singapore moves back towards Covid-19 lockdown as cases surge||Singapore is returning to the lockdown-like conditions it last imposed a year ago, banning dining-in and limiting gatherings to two people, as a rising number of untraceable virus infections pressures one of the most successful places in the world at Covid containment.For four weeks from May 16 to June 13, gathering sizes as well as household visitors will be cut to a maximum of two people from five people now, working from home will be the default, and food places can only do takeaways and deliveries, the health ministry said in a statement on Friday. The resurgence is also putting a highly-anticipated travel bubble with Hong Kong in doubt.The Singapore dollar extended its decline after the announcement of the new rules. The city’s benchmark stock index bucked Asia’s positive trend to sink as much as 3.2%, the most since June last year, before ending 2.2% lower. Shares linked to travel and consumption were among the biggest losers, with bellwether Singapore Airlines Ltd. sliding as much as 7.3%.“A pattern of local unlinked community cases has emerged and is persisting,” the statement said. “We need to act decisively to contain these risks as any one leak could result in an uncontrolled resurgence of cases.”The country recorded 24 new virus cases locally on Friday, with more than half coming from a cluster originating from Changi Airport. The number of unlinked infections -- the most concerning to officials as they signal undetected spread in the community -- has risen to 15 in the past week from 7 in the week before, the health ministry had said Thursday.While the numbers are far smaller than ongoing outbreaks in countries like the US that are charging ahead with opening up, the flareup is a major setback by Singapore standards, as the city-state is one of handful of “Covid havens” that had previously nearly eliminated the pathogen domestically. These places are now struggling to find a path to re-open as their vaccination drives lag major western economies.The new rules are the most restrictive since Singapore went into a so-called circuit breaker partial lockdown in April last year, where schools and most workplaces were closed except for essential services and key economic sectors. Officials at a briefing on Friday emphasized the need to stay at home and only go out for absolutely necessary errands, and said they will review the measures after two weeks.New Rules Amid Upcoming Big EventsThe return to near-lockdown in Singapore puts in doubt high-profile global initiatives meant to showcase its control of the virus. An long-gestating air travel bubble with Hong Kong, set to start May 26, is now unlikely to go ahead on schedule. Singapore was also scheduled to host the Shangri-La Dialogue early next month, which organizers say they remain committed to, and the Davos-based World Economic Forum in August.The new rules Singapore will have for the next month include:Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong said Friday authorities are testing more intensively and trying to ring-fence transmissions, and the stricter restrictions are needed to stop more cases from happening. “The new measures will be difficult for everybody,” Lee said in his Facebook post.Hong Kong Travel BubbleOfficials in both cities have signaled that the highly anticipated bubble, first scheduled to start last November, will be delayed again in light of the outbreak in Singapore.Transport minister Ong Ye Kung said at a Friday briefing that it’s very likely that Singapore “may not meet the criteria” for the arrangements to go through; the government will make an announcement early next week on the bubble’s fate after reviewing local cases.According to the terms of the agreement, the travel bubble will be closed for two weeks if the seven-day moving average of the daily number of unlinked local cases is more than five in either city. It’s currently just above 2 in Singapore and near zero in Hong Kong.There’s a “high chance” the air travel bubble may not go ahead as scheduled, Hong Kong Secretary for Commerce and Economic Development Edward Yau said Friday, citing Singapore authorities. Yau said he will speak to Singapore’s new transport minister S. Iswaran early next week.Job SupportGiven the new ban on dining-in, the Singapore government will increase job support subsidies for food and beverage firms as well as waive rental for one month for hawker stall and coffee shop tenants.It is also stepping up virus testing from May 15, and will start using rapid test kits for people with symptoms at health centers.On Thursday, the number of new local cases rose to 24, the highest since July last year. Changi Airport is now the single biggest cluster of Covid cases, with 46 linked to the aerodrome, raising fears that travelers have spread the pathogen to airport staff despite strict post-arrival quarantine regulations.The government closed the airport terminals and connecting Jewel shopping mall to the public for two weeks from May 13, though it remains open for air travel. It has also been testing workers in the facilities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/singapore-moves-back-towards-covid-19-lockdown-as-cases-surge-101620989676042.html
14-05-2021||World||Committed to open, stable supply chain of goods: China||Beijing on Friday said it is committed to an open and stable supply chain of goods, days after India’s Hong Kong envoy complained of high prices of medical supplies and snapping of regular freight flights from China.The Chinese foreign ministry did not comment on the disruption of freight flights from China to India but said the sudden surge in demand for medical equipment in India has also contributed to the rising prices of medical goods.The ministry’s response comes after Priyanka Chauhan, India’s consul general in Hong Kong, told the South China Morning Post (SCMP) earlier this week that soaring prices of medical goods like much-in-demand oxygen concentrators and cargo flight disruptions were slowing supply arrivals from China to India.Chauhan said New Delhi’s expectation at this point is that the supply chain should remain open and product prices should remain stable. ‘China is committed to smooth global industrial and supply chains and hopes that all parties can work together to ensure stability of global industrial and supply chains instead of disrupting the openness and stability of these chains for political purposes,” ministry spokesperson Hua Chunying said responding to a question on Chauhan’s comments.Hua’s comments on keeping the global supply chain open also comes in the backdrop of India keeping out Chinese companies including telecom giant Huawei from 5G trials, a move criticised by Beijing as discriminatory.On the issue of rising prices of medical goods being sourced from China, Hua said demand and the shortage of certain kinds of raw material were contributing to the price escalation.“Just taking oxygen concentrators as an example, the demand in India has soared by several times in just a short period of time and the raw materials are also in shortage. Further, the Indian side has also raised their demand through different channels, which has led to excessive demand in the market and driven up prices,” Hua said.“The Chinese manufacturers even have to import some of the raw materials from other countries. We have faced similar problems before. We hope all parties can work together to ensure openness and stability of the supply chains,’’ she said.India has a strong demand for raw and auxiliary material for vaccine production, she said, adding: “Since the beginning of this year Chinese companies have provided more than 10 tons to India and more than 20 tons are expected to be delivered in May and June.”China, she said, is concerned about the epidemic situation in India and feels for “…what the Indian people are going through. China was among the first countries to offer help and support to India”.“We have been encouraging and guiding our companies to facilitate India’s procuring of epidemic prevention materials. Many Chinese companies and NGOs have also been offering help to India in their own ways.”In April, China exported over 26,000 ventilations and oxygen concentrators to India, more than 15,000 monitors and nearly 3,800 tons of medicine materials and drugs.“The relevant Chinese companies have received orders from India for more than 70,000 oxygen concentrators and are stepping up their production for early delivery”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/committed-to-open-stable-supply-chain-of-goods-china-101620990659082.html
14-05-2021||World||As B1.617.2 Covid variant spreads rapidly in parts of UK authorities enhance vaccination, increase testing||The case numbers related to the B1.617.2 variant of Covid-19, first identified in India, have more than doubled within a week in the UK, resulting in further surge testing and enhanced vaccine measures to be deployed in parts of the country where the strain is beginning to spread “increasingly rapidly”.Public Health England (PHE) said on Thursday that its latest analysis shows the number of cases of the highly transmissible variant first detected in Maharashtra has risen from 520 last week to 1,313 cases this week. Most cases are in the northwest of England, with some in London, and additional measures are being put in place to "rapidly break chains of transmission".UK Health Secretary Matt Hancock said the health authorities are monitoring the situation “very carefully” and will not hesitate to take further action if necessary, indicating that the roadmap to lifting all lockdown measures from June 21 may have to be reassessed.“This data demonstrates why our swift and decisive measures are in place. Everyone has a part to play in controlling this variant, from participating in surge testing, to following the rules, to getting the jab,” said Hancock.“We are committed to working with local areas and deploying our world-leading genomic sequencing to get this variant under control. We are supporting areas where the cases of this variant are rising,” he said.The minister said it is imperative that people who live in one of the 15 areas currently covered by surge testing processes get a free PCR test and everyone who’s eligible needs to come forward and get their vaccine.PHE said that while there is no “firm evidence” yet to show this variant has any greater impact on the severity of disease or that it evades vaccines, the "speed of growth is concerning".UK Vaccines Minister Nadhim Zahawi said the authorities are looking at how to best utilise the vaccine roll-out to protect the most vulnerable in the context of the current epidemiology, including the possibility of bringing forward the second doses for the most vulnerable in some of the most affected areas.Andy Burnham, the Mayor of Manchester, one of the hotspots of the variant, has also called for a speeding up in the age eligibility criteria for vaccines in the affected areas. The National Health Service (NHS) is now offering a jab to all over the age of 38.“Cases of this variant are rising in the community and we are continuously monitoring its spread and severity to ensure we take rapid public health action,” said Dr Susan Hopkins, Covid-19 Strategic Response Director at PHE.“Testing and isolating when required not only limits spread, it helps us to better understand how the variant behaves in the community which is vital to taking effective and proportionate action moving forward…"The way to limit the spread of all variants is the same. Keep your distance, wash your hands regularly and thoroughly, cover your nose and mouth when inside, keep buildings well ventilated and meet people from other households outside,” she said.The variant was confirmed as a "Variant of Concern" by PHE on May 7 after a rise in cases and evidence of spread in some areas. Since then across the northwest of England, significant work is underway with local councils and partners.In Bolton, mobile testing units have been deployed and door to door PCR testing has been offered to 22,000 residents. A vaccine bus has been established in the heart of the community to increase vaccine uptake as part of a wider drive.PCR testing, whole genome sequencing and enhanced contact tracing are being used throughout London to target the many small dispersed clusters. All positive tests in London with a high enough viral load are also being prioritised for genomic sequencing to check for variants, and surge testing can begin immediately if it is needed.Taking this community-led approach has already proved effective in reducing transmission of variants in London to date, PHE said.To help identify variant cases, surge testing is being deployed in 15 areas across England to suppress transmission, with more than 800,000 additional PCR test kits distributed.According to the Department of Health and Social Care (DHSC), over 4,400 cases and over 14,000 close contacts have been traced and instructed to self-isolate.Over 200 existing test sites and 130 schools have distributed test kits, with Mobile Testing Units deployed to provide PCR testing for people without symptoms.The public is also being urged to continue to take up the offer of two free rapid tests a week, to help identify asymptomatic cases. Anyone who does test positive in this way should take a follow-up PCR test, which can be sent for genome sequencing to help catch new variant cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/as-b1-617-2-covid-variant-spreads-rapidly-in-parts-of-uk-authorities-enhance-vaccination-increase-testing-101620985970267.html
14-05-2021||World||‘Amazing’: Pilots, passenger uninjured after two planes collide midair||The pilot of an airplane that collided with another midair near Denver requested emergency landing for engine failure, not knowing that his plane was nearly ripped in half, according to air traffic control audio. Miraculously, both planes landed and no one was hurt, officials said.The planes were getting ready to land at a small regional airport in a Denver suburb on Wednesday when they collided, according to the National Transportation Safety Board and South Metro Fire Rescue.The pilot that requested emergency landing was the only person aboard a twin-engine Fairchild Metroliner that landed at Centennial Airport despite major damage to its tail section. The plane is owned by a Colorado-based Key Lime Air, which operates cargo aircraft.“Looks like the right engine failed so I’m gonna continue my landing here,” the pilot said in an audio clip with air traffic control.The second plane, a single-engine 2016 Cirrus SR22, was rented by Independence Aviation, the company said in a statement. Its pilot successfully deployed an airframe parachute system designed by Cirrus Aircraft to slow the craft’s descent after a collision.The Cirrus plane had a pilot and one passenger on board when the pilot deployed a red-and-white parachute and drifted down to a safe landing in a field near homes in Cherry Creek State Park, Arapahoe County sheriff’s Deputy John Bartmann said.“Every one of these pilots needs to go buy a lottery ticket right now,” Bartmann said. “I don’t remember anything like this — especially everybody walking away. I mean that’s the amazing part of this.”The National Transportation Safety Board has four people investigating the accident, the federal agency said in a statement.“We are working to understand how and why these planes collided,” said John Brannen, lead NTSB investigator for the accident. “It is so fortunate that no one was injured in this collision.”As of Thursday, Brannen had interviewed both pilots and an NTSB air traffic control specialist had listened to recordings from air traffic control. They plan to interview the air traffic controllers who worked with both pilots, according to the statement.NTSB said it will publish a preliminary report in the next two weeks but it expects the entire investigation to take 12 to 18 months.The Independence-operated Cirrus had departed Centennial at 9:21 a.m. Wednesday, flew northward near Fort Collins and was returning to Centennial when the collision occurred.The Key Lime Air cargo flight took off from Salida, a city more than 100 miles (161 kilometers) southwest of Denver, at 9:56 a.m. and landed at Centennial at 10:25 a.m.June Cvelbar told the KUSA TV station that she witnessed the collision while walking in a state park.“I saw two planes in the sky. I saw a larger green plane, which I thought was a tow plane, along with what I thought was a glider being towed by it. I heard a noise but didn’t realize that the two planes had collided," she told KUSA in an email.Cvelbar said she saw the green plane fly off and shortly after saw the smaller plane deploy its parachute. She said she initially thought it was a training exercise.“When I realized that the small plane was going down I ran toward it. The pilot and his passenger were up and about,” Cvelbar said.Shelly Whitehead told KCNC-TV that she was in her kitchen when she heard a loud bang that sounded like a firecracker. She ran out onto her patio and saw the plane that deployed the parachute coming down in the field behind her house.“I thought, ‘Is it somebody just jumping out of a plane?’ And then I realized the parachute was attached to a plane,” she said. “I thought for sure they weren’t going to make it out of there.”Both Key Lime Air, a passenger and cargo charter company, and Independence Aviation, a flight school and aircraft rental firm that owns the Cirrus airplane, are based outside Centennial Airport, one of the busiest general aviation airports in Colorado.Authorities did not immediately identify the people who were in the planes.“At this time, we are allowing the NTSB and FAA to conduct their investigation,” said a statement issued by Derek Severns of the Cirrus Platinum Training Center, a pilot training center.The National Transportation Safety Board said on Twitter that it was sending staff to investigate. Key Lime Air will cooperate with the investigation, the company said in a statement.Federal Aviation Administration records show aircraft operated by Key Lime Air have been involved in three fatal crashes.In 2016, a Key Lime Air charter plane on a nighttime flight from Panama City, Florida, to Albany, Georgia, crashed after possibly breaking up in midair as the lone pilot on board tried to navigate severe weather near Camilla, Georgia.In 2001, a Key Lime Air flight crashed about 30 miles (48 kilometers) off the southern Colorado town of Pagosa Springs, killing two people on board.In 2000, two pilots aboard a Key Lime Air Piper were killed after crashing near Kiowa, Colorado, southeast of Denver.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/amazing-pilots-passenger-uninjured-after-two-planes-collide-midair-101620984930446.html
14-05-2021||World||KP Sharma Oli sworn in as Prime Minister of Nepal||KP Sharma Oli was sworn in as Nepal’s Prime Minister for the third time on Friday, days after he lost a vote of confidence in Parliament.President Bidya Devi Bhandari administered the oath of office and secrecy to Oli, 69, at a ceremony at Shital Niwas, after he was reappointed to the post on Thursday night as the Opposition parties failed to secure majority seats in Parliament to form a new government.Also Read | Oli reappointed as Nepal PM as Oppn fails to muster majority to form new govtOli, the Chairman of CPN-UML, lost a crucial trust vote in the House of Representatives on Monday.Oli will now have to take a vote of confidence at the House within 30 days, failing which, an attempt to form a government under Article 76 (5) of the Constitution would be initiated.He previously served as prime minister from October 11, 2015 to August 3, 2016 and again from February 15, 2018 to May 13, 2021.The president had asked the Opposition parties to come up with the support of majority lawmakers to form a new government by 9 pm on Thursday after Oli lost the vote of confidence in the House on Monday.Until Thursday, Nepali Congress president Sher Bahadur Deuba, who got backing from CPN-Maoist Centre chairman Pushpakamal Dahal "Prachanda" was hopeful to get sufficient votes in the House to stake his claim as the next Prime Minister.But as Madhav Kumar Nepal took a U-turn after his last-minute meeting with Oli, Deuba's dream to become the next Prime Minister was shattered. The CPN-UML is the largest party with 121 seats in the 271-member House of Representatives.At present 136 votes are needed to form a majority government.If the parties fail to form a new government in line with Article 76 (5) or the Prime Minister elected under this provision does not secure the vote of confidence again, the sitting Prime Minister can recommend the President to dissolve the parliament and announce the date to hold general elections within the next six months.Nepal plunged into a political crisis on December 20 last year after President Bhandari dissolved the House and announced fresh elections on April 30 and May 10 at the recommendation of Prime Minister Oli, amidst a tussle for power within the ruling Nepal Communist Party (NCP).Oli's move to dissolve the House sparked protests from a large section of the NCP led by his rival 'Prachanda'.In February, the apex court reinstated the dissolved House, in a setback to Oli who was preparing for snap polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/kp-sharma-oli-sworn-in-as-prime-minister-of-nepal-101620984258300.html
14-05-2021||World||Covid-19: Passengers grounded ahead of departure from India to Australia||Around half the passengers due to arrive on a flight from India to Australia on Saturday after a two-week travel ban have been grounded because they either have COVID-19 or are considered a close contact of someone who does.The Australian government-chartered Qantas flight is capable of flying home 150 Australian citizens and permanent residents stranded in India. It will be the first passenger flight between the two countries since Australia imposed a travel ban on April 30.Australian High Commissioner to India Barry O’Farrell said “a number” of passengers booked to fly would not board the flight in New Delhi on Friday because they had tested positive for COVID-19.“I’m disappointed, as are those Australians who will not be on today’s flight,” O’Farrell told Australian Broadcasting Corp.“My team across India has worked hard to assist them, to get bookings on this flight, because they are vulnerable,” O’Farrell added.There are 10,000 Australian citizens and permanent residents registered with Australian authorities in India as wanting to come home. Almost 1,000 were classified as vulnerable and the Australian government was giving them priority.More than 40 of the passengers booked on the first flight out tested positive to the virus and around 30 had been rejected because they were considered close contacts, said an Australian official, who spoke to The Associated Press on condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to release the information.Nine Network News reported that 48 had tested positive and 24 would be left behind because they were considered close contacts.The flight will land on Saturday in the northern Australian city of Darwin from where the passengers will be taken to a remote quarantine camp.O'Farrell said the empty seats could not be filled because of the strict health checks that Australia is imposing.“We're in the middle of a COVID crisis here in India and it takes at least 24 hours if not longer to get the results of a test,” O'Farrell told Nine.“So the idea of being able to have people that could quickly take the place is a bit harder than it seems,” he added.O’Farrell said the rejected passengers would be eligible for future flights once they get health clearances.The Australian government plans to fly the next repatriation flight on May 23. Six government-chartered flights, each with a 150-passenger capacity, are expected to return Australians from India before the end of May.Australia doesn’t expect scheduled international flights to return to normal until mid-2022.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid19-passengers-scheduled-to-arrive-in-australia-from-india-grounded-101620983738123.html
14-05-2021||World||Diplomats, donors concerned about sex abuse reports at WHO||British, European and American diplomats and donors have voiced serious concerns about how the World Health Organization handled sex abuse allegations involving its own staff during an outbreak of Ebola in Congo, as reported this week by The Associated Press.On Tuesday, the AP published an investigation documenting that senior WHO management was informed of multiple sex abuse allegations involving at least two of its doctors during the epidemic in 2018.A notarized contract obtained by the AP showed that two WHO staffers signed off on an agreement between WHO’s Dr. Jean-Paul Ngandu and a young woman he allegedly impregnated in Congo. In it, Ngandu promised to pay the young woman money, cover her pregnancy costs and buy her a plot of land. The contract was made “to protect the integrity and reputation of the organization,” Ngandu said.“The U.K. has a zero tolerance approach when it comes to sexual exploitation and harassment — and that extends to all international organizations that we fund,” said Simon Manley, the U.K.’s ambassador to the U.N. in Geneva. “We are speaking with WHO and other major donors as a matter of urgency to establish the facts." Britain is WHO's second biggest donor, after the U.S.The U.S. State Department had no immediate comment.Also Read | WHO chief Tedros says will work with member states on panel findingsWHO has declined to comment on the specific allegations reported by the AP and said it is waiting for the results of a panel created last October to investigate sexual abuse during the Congo outbreak involving WHO staffers.“What’s alarming is that WHO seems to be keeping this abuse quiet and not publicly condemning these allegations,” said Clare Wenham, an assistant professor of global health policy at the London School of Economics, who has studied gender and funding issues at WHO. “There's a lot of talk about giving WHO more money but I don't think any government should be committing to that until we know it's an organization we can trust."The Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, the agency's third-largest funder, said it expects U.N. agencies to conduct thorough investigations into sexual abuse as quickly as possible.“Our role as a funder is to hold organizations that receive grants from the foundation to the highest standards of transparency and accountability, and to insist that they take steps to prevent misconduct in the future,” the foundation said.Lawrence Gostin, director of the WHO Collaborating Center on Global Health Law at Georgetown University, said the ultimate responsibility for WHO’s Ebola response lies with director-general Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus. The AP found that one of the doctors accused of sexual harassment, Boubacar Diallo, bragged about his relationship to Tedros, who mentioned Diallo during a speech in January 2019. The AP spoke with three women who said Diallo offered them WHO jobs in exchange for sex; Diallo denied the claims.“I find it hard to believe Tedros would have known about these allegations and done nothing,” Gostin said. “The (director-general) must meet the highest ethical standards so we must understand what he knew and when he knew it. ... Dr. Diallo may have used his relationship with Tedros as leverage in sexual exploitation, but it would not be Tedros’ fault if he wasn’t aware of it.”Gostin said WHO staffers who were aware of sexual misconduct claims but failed to act should be punished.Balazs Ujvari, a spokesman for the European Commission, said it would “thoroughly monitor the investigations” by the AP. He said the commission is ready to review or suspend funding "for any partner who is not living up to the required high ethical and professional rules and standards.” Last year, the European Commission gave WHO about 114 million euros ($138 million).The World Bank said it is “deeply concerned” about the new sex abuse allegations at WHO. The bank paused its negotiations with Congolese authorities for new financing to agencies, including WHO, last year when reports of general sex abuse during the Ebola outbreak surfaced.“We review our relationship with any organization whose standards are in question,” the World Bank said in an email.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/diplomats-donors-concerned-about-sex-abuse-reports-at-who-101620982290616.html
14-05-2021||World||Germany's Covid-19 curbs set to ease after cases fall below key level||Germany’s pandemic restrictions could ease further in the coming days after the national contagion rate fell below a key level for the first time in nearly two months.Infections per 100,000 people over the past seven days dropped to 96.5 on Friday, the first time the figure was below 100 since March 20, according to the RKI public-health institute. The incidence rate had peaked at nearly 170 in late April.Some German states have already begun easing restrictions, and others are likely to follow in the coming days, if infections remain at this level. Chancellor Angela Merkel’s controversial lockdown law, which mandated tougher restrictions for most of the country, allows curbs to be loosened if the incidence rate falls below 100 for five consecutive days.With infections falling and immunizations accelerating, German authorities have become increasingly optimistic that Europe’s largest economy can relax limits on movement, including reopening outdoor dining and easing restrictions on non-essential stores. The country has already widened privileges for people who have been fully vaccinated or recovered from Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/german-curbs-set-to-ease-after-covid-cases-fall-below-key-level-101620975906113.html
14-05-2021||World||Origins of Covid-19 need to be investigated further, leading scientists say||The origin of the novel coronavirus is still unclear and there is not yet enough evidence to say conclusively if it occurred naturally or was caused by a laboratory leak, a group of leading scientists said in a letter.The novel coronavirus, which emerged in China in late 2019, has killed 3.34 million people, cost the world trillions of dollars in lost income and upended daily life for billions of people."More investigation is still needed to determine the origin of the pandemic," said the 18 scientists, including Ravindra Gupta, a clinical microbiologist at the University of Cambridge and Jesse Bloom, who studies the evolution of viruses at the Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center."Theories of accidental release from a lab and zoonotic spillover both remain viable," the scientists including David Relman, professor of microbiology at Stanford, said in a letter to the journal Science.The authors of the letter said the World Health Organization's initial investigation into the origins of the virus had not made a "balanced consideration" of the theory that it may have come from a laboratory incident."We must take hypotheses about both natural and laboratory spillovers seriously until we have sufficient data," the scientists said, adding that an intellectually rigorous and dispassionate investigation needed to take place."In this time of unfortunate anti-Asian sentiment in some countries, we note that at the beginning of the pandemic, it was Chinese doctors, scientists, journalists, and citizens who shared with the world crucial information about the spread of the virus—often at great personal cost."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/origins-of-covid-19-need-to-be-investigated-further-leading-scientists-say-101620973107605.html
14-05-2021||World||‘Covid Zero’ havens find reopening harder than taming coronavirus||A smattering of places, mainly across the Asia Pacific region, have seen breathtaking victories in the battle against Covid-19 by effectively wiping it out within their borders. Now they face a fresh test: rejoining the rest of the world, which is still awash in the pathogen.In some ways, the success of “Covid Zero” locations is becoming a straitjacket. As cities like New York and London return to in-person dealmaking and business as usual -- tolerating hundreds of daily cases as vaccination gathers pace -- financial hubs like Singapore and Hong Kong risk being left behind as they maintain stringent border curbs and try to stamp out single-digit flareups.After a brutal 18 months that claimed 3.3 million lives worldwide, nations like China, Singapore, Australia and New Zealand have suffered fewer deaths during the entire pandemic than many countries, even highly vaccinated ones, continue to log in a matter of days.That achievement has allowed people to have largely normal lives for much of the past year. Some haven’t even had to wear masks. But sustaining this vaunted status has also required stop-start lockdown cycles, near-blanket bans on international travel and strict quarantine policies. The few travelers permitted to enter have had to spend weeks in total confinement, unable to leave a hotel room.Now that mass inoculation drives are allowing other parts of the world to normalize and open up to international travel, experts and residents are starting to question whether walling off from Covid is worth the trade-off, if implemented long-term.“The whole world is not going to be Covid Zero,” said Rupali Limaye, director of behavioral and implementation science at the International Vaccine Access Center at Johns Hopkins School of Public Health. “That’s not an option here.”Aggressive reactions to tiny caseloads may seem overblown to observers in countries facing thousands of infections a day, but the aim is to snuff out coronavirus before more disruptive restrictions like months-long lockdowns are needed -- and largely the strategy has worked. Still, the slower pace of vaccination in these places, and the threat of new variants, has meant that measures have become more and more onerous.New York currently logs 95 new daily cases per million people, and the U.S. has just lifted its mask mandate for those vaccinated. Singapore found just 4.2 new cases per million on Thursday, boosting locally acquired cases to the highest level since July last year, and is returning to restrictions it last imposed a year ago, banning dining-in and limiting gatherings to two people. The resurgence is also putting its highly-anticipated travel bubble with Hong Kong in doubt.Meanwhile, Taiwan recorded 16 local cases on Wednesday -- a daily record high -- and promptly restricted access to gyms and other public venues. In Hong Kong, anyone living in the same building as a person infected with a new Covid variant was required to spend as much as three weeks in government isolation until the policy changed last week. Australia has said that it likely won’t open its international borders until the second half of 2022.“Because we have been so successful, we are even more risk-averse than we were before,” said Peter Collignon, a professor of infectious diseases at the Australian National University Medical School in Canberra.“We are very intolerant of letting any Covid come into the country,” he said. “The fear has almost gotten out of proportion to what the risk is.”Paying the PriceContinued isolation is the price these places will have to pay to maintain this approach in the longer term, as other parts of the world learn to tolerate some infections as long as medical systems aren’t overwhelmed.Most experts agree that the virus is unlikely to disappear completely. Instead, it is expected to become endemic, meaning it will circulate at some level without sparking the deadly outbreaks seen since late 2019.To maintain zero infection rates, these economies will have to implement measures that are harsher and more strict, said Donald Low, professor at the Institute of Public Policy of the Hong Kong University of Science and Technology.“This is neither wise nor tenable for much longer,” he said. “All this puts the places that have done well to suppress Covid-19 so far at a serious disadvantage as their societies -- not having been exposed to the possibility of Covid-19 becoming endemic -- are not willing to accept any relaxation of measures that may put their health at risk.”Meanwhile, many countries -- particularly those in the west that are awash in vaccines -- are starting to reopen.Travelers from England and Scotland will be permitted to visit a dozen countries without quarantining from 17 May. In the U.S., where about 35,000 people were diagnosed with the virus on May 12, the strict quarantine rules that prevented the import of the pathogen to Covid Zero countries never existed. Most states are starting to lift their pandemic restrictions and 25 have removed them completely.For Hong Kong and Singapore, the drawbacks of maintaining an elimination strategy as financial centers like London and New York City re-open may be significant. As aviation hubs and financial centers, both cities’ economies are particularly reliant on travel, compared to export-led economies such as China and Australia that can stomach being shut for longer. In 2019, Hong Kong was the world’s most popular city with international visitors -- even after months of political unrest -- while Singapore came in fourth place. London was at No. 5 and New York at No. 11.Vaccination LagA major obstacle to reopening is the slow vaccine rollout in these Covid havens, due to a combination of supply limitations and citizens’ lack of urgency about fronting up for shots.China has administered enough vaccinations for about 12% of its population. In Australia, the figure is 5% and in New Zealand, just 3%. Meanwhile, more than one-third of the U.S. -- and more than one quarter of the U.K. -- is fully protected, as those countries’ failure to mitigate the spread of Covid meant vaccination was prioritized.In places with very few infections, the public hasn’t developed the searing fear of the virus that emerged in the U.S., Europe, India and Brazil, where many families were cut off from dying loved ones or left unable to visit elderly relatives in care facilities.In fact many residents fear the vaccine more than the virus. Reports of routine side effects including fever and injection-site pain, as well as rare and potentially deadly complications like blood clots, have put people off. The lack of an immediate threat from Covid means some people would rather wait until the vaccines are more progressed.New VariantsNot everyone agrees that elimination can’t be pursued long-term. For Michael Baker, professor of public health at the University of Otago in Wellington, New Zealand, the approach’s benefits are evident in how deaths in the country -- from any cause -- actually dropped in 2020.“The evidence is overwhelming for zero Covid if you can achieve it,” he said. “If there had been the commitment to having elimination as the first option, we may have been able to eliminate it entirely and avoided this global disaster.”He’s still hopeful that the strategy will be more broadly adopted with the help of vaccination, so that coronavirus will follow the measles model rather than an endemic one.“With the measles approach, you largely stop outbreaks in every country that has high coverage,” he said.Nonetheless, Covid havens face a growing dilemma. If vaccinations don’t pick up pace, they risk being stuck in a perpetual cycle, unable to move past the pandemic.“If their vaccination rates are low, that further jeopardizes their ability to open up,” Low said. “If so, the earlier ‘victory’ of these places over Covid-19 would have been a Pyrrhic one.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-zero-havens-find-reopening-harder-than-taming-coronavirus-101620971213618.html
14-05-2021||World||Myanmar junta declares martial law in town after attacks on bank, police||Myanmar's junta has declared martial law in a town in Chin State after blaming "armed terrorists" for attacks on a police station and a bank, state media reported on Friday, amid an upsurge in fighting between the military and ethnic rebels in border areas.In the face of widespread opposition, the junta has struggled to retain order amid daily protests in cities and fighting in border states since overthrowing elected leader Aung San Suu Kyi to end tentative steps towards democracy.The unrest in the town of Mindat on Wednesday and Thursday involved about 100 people using homemade guns to attack a police station and about 50 targeting the Myanmar Economic Bank, the state Myanmar News Agency reported.It said that the security forces had repelled the attack without suffering any casualties.A document declaring the imposition of martial law in the town in Chin State, which borders India, was posted in The Global New Light of Myanmar, a state newspaper.Reuters could not independently confirm the state media reports on the situation in Mindat.But a document posted on social media by local media claiming to be from a rival anti-junta administration in the Mindat area said the declaration of martial law was invalid.It also said that the fighting was triggered by the army breaking a promise to release seven civilians detained during recent protests.A spokesman for the Chinland Defence Force, a newly formed militia, said it was behind the latest fighting and confirmed the authenticity of the document."They (the junta) can no longer rule the city except in some areas where they have bases. They have no control in the rural areas," said the spokesman, who said that one fighter from the force was killed and that clashes were continuing with the army bringing in reinforcements.A spokesman for the junta could not immediately be reached for comment.In a further sign of continuing defiance of military rule, video on social media showed pro-democracy supporters chanting "We believe that we gonna win, we must win, we must win" as they marched in Myanmar's commercial hub of Yangon on Friday.With 788 people killed in a brutal suppression of protests by security forces, according to an advocacy group, some supporters of the ousted government have sought military training with insurgents that have battled the military for decades in border regions.Reuters is unable to independently verify casualties and the military has imposed restrictions on the media, internet services and satellite broadcasts.Fighting has intensified in some border areas since the Feb. 1 coup, with ethnic militias stepping up attacks, overrunning military posts and downing a military helicopter.Formed a week ago by the National Unity Government opposed to the generals, a group called the People's Defence Forces has enlisted support from ethnic armed groups that have long regarded Mynamar's military as their greatest foe.Called to arms since the coup, their fighters have ambushed security forces and assassinated junta-appointed administrators.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/myanmar-junta-declares-martial-law-in-town-after-attacks-on-bank-police-101620970147154.html
14-05-2021||World||Air Canada extends suspension of flights to India till June 22||While the 30-day ban on flights from India over Covid-19 surge announced by Canada is due to end next week, Air Canada’s suspension of services will continue till the third week of June.Air Canada is now only accepting booking beginning in late June, as a spokesperson for the airline told Global News that they “have further extended the suspension of flights from India until June 22”.“We did this in anticipation of the existing suspension of flights between the two countries being extended,” the spokesperson added.Prior to the suspension, both Air Canada and Air India were operating almost daily flights between the Canadian cities of Toronto and Vancouver and New Delhi in an air corridor arrangement that came into place last summer.The move in April by the Canadian Government was precipitated by increasing pressure upon it to act on this matter after multiple cases of the B.1.617 variant of Covid-19 detected in India were reported in Canada.While that will expire on May 21, it is unlikely to be lifted immediately by Transport Cabana, the department handling aviation, due to the continuing surge in coronavirus cases in India, and mounting demand from provincial governments in Canada to even restrict domestic air travel.Transport Canada had issued its directive last month to “suspend all commercial and private passenger flights from India and Pakistan for 30 days, effective 23.30 EDT April 22, 2021”.Meanwhile, passengers from India who arrive via an indirect route, through a third country, have to provide a pre-departure negative coronavirus test result from the last port before continuing their journey.A statement released by Transport Canada, the ministry responsible for aviation, said, “These measures will help manage the elevated risk of imported cases of Covid-19 and variants of concern into Canada during a time of increasing pressure on our health care system.”Since that ban came into effect, there have been continued reports of infections detected aboard flights originating in the United States, Europe, China, Japan, Central America, the Middle East, and Africa.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/air-canada-extends-suspension-of-flights-to-india-till-june-22-101620969477538.html
14-05-2021||World||Covid-19: Canada considers B.1.617 as a ‘variant of concern’||Days after the World Health Organization (WHO) designated it a variant of concern or VOC, Canadian health authorities are now considering the B.1.617 mutation of Covid-19 in the same category.The variant, which was first detected in India, was added to the Public Health Agency of Canada’s VOC list on Thursday.In its Outbreak Update, the agency said that it was “following the variants of concern first identified in the United Kingdom (B.1.1.7), South Africa (B.1.351), Brazil (P.1) and India (B.1.617)”. It added, “Monitoring for genetic changes in the virus allows us to better understand the potential impact of the mutations.”In a statement issued on Thursday, Canada’s chief public health officer Dr Theresa Tam noted the WHO earlier this week based on “increased negative impacts compared to other circulating virus variants”.She said, “Early findings of the WHO SARS-CoV-2 Virus Evolution Working Group indicate that this variant appears to have higher rates of transmission; as well, preliminary evidence suggests the variant may be associated with reduced effectiveness to some Covid-19 treatments.”Tam also noted that VOCs “can be associated with more severe illness and increased risk of death”.She pointed that out that such variants now represent “a majority” of Covid-19 cases in Canada, and the UK variant is present in all provinces and territories and accounts for more than 95% of VOCs sequenced to date.However, she added that “regardless of which variants are circulating, vaccination, in combination with public health and individual measures work to reduce spread”.She said that Canada has so far recorded 28 cases of adverse reactions related to the AstraZeneca vaccine, involving blood clots (thrombosis) with low levels of blood platelets.As some Canadian provinces, led by Ontario, have paused administration of the vaccine for first doses, Tam said that while generally, vaccine series are completed with the same vaccine, in some cases, they can be completed with a different one.She said that it “may be possible that using a different vaccine type could result in a greater immune response, providing broader protection against Covid-19.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid19-canada-considers-b-1-617-as-a-variant-of-concern-101620967737386.html
14-05-2021||World||Imperative for India to collaborate with other countries on Covid vaccine: Fauci||Dr Anthony Fauci, the Biden administration's top medical adviser on Thursday (local time) said that it is imperative for India to collaborate with other countries, and companies to ramp up its vaccine production capability to vaccinate country's huge population against Covid-19.Calling India as one of the best vaccine producer in the world, the leading American infectious disease expert said,"It's a very very large country with a population of about 1.4 billion people, you only have a couple of percentage of the people who are fully vaccinated and over about 10 per cent or so that have at least one dose so you've got to work out arrangements with other countries, other companies at the same time as ramping up your own capability of making vaccines because as we all know, India is one of the best if not the biggest vaccine producer in the world."As several countries have announced support for India's response to a devastating second wave of coronavirus infections that has hit healthcare facilities across the country, Dr Fauci told ANI in an exclusive interview: "There was the immediate issue that needs to be addressed as taking care of the people that are already infected. Getting better supplies of oxygen, oxygen cylinders, oxygen generators, PPEs, therapies like Remdesivir and things like that; the things that the US has helped with, but then probably in the intermediate and long run, you've got to figure out a way how to get as many vaccinations, administered to the people of India as possible."Noting that the B.1.617 mutant first detected in India has been found in over 40 countries including the US, he said, "in the ongoing crisis, the rich countries have a moral responsibility to assist those countries that don't have the capability of doing that, particularly the low and middle-income countries."Dr Fauci, who is the Director of the US National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID), is also the chief medical advisor to President Joe Biden.Regarding the use of vaccine passports in post-pandemic travel, the infectious diseases expert said that they are not going to be mandated by the US government, is likely not to go forward with them, but also noted that several airlines may say that they will not include persons who don't have vaccination verification.Speaking on resuming travel with India, Fauci told ANI: "It is really going to depend on the level of infection right now. India has a very very high level of infection and that would mean that it would be very very difficult to resume travel there right now."India is currently dealing with a second COVID-19 wave that has swept through the nation, straining the country's health infrastructure and overburdening frontline medical workers.Several countries around the globe including the UK, Russia, and the US have extended support to India as it continues to struggle with the increase in its health infrastructure needs.The Union Health Ministry on Thursday informed that 17.72 crore doses of Covid-19 vaccine have been administered in India till now."Ten states account for 66.73 per cent of the cumulative doses given so far in the country. More than 34 lakh beneficiaries of age group 18-44 vaccinated under Phase-3 of Vaccination Drive," said Joint Secretary of Union Health Ministry Lav Agarwal.The country had started the Covid-19 vaccination drive on January 16 with two vaccines -- Covishield (Oxford-AstraZeneca's vaccine manufactured by Serum Institute of India) and Covaxin (manufactured by Bharat Biotech Limited).The vaccination drive for those between 18 and 45 years of age started in many parts of the country from May 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/imperative-for-india-to-collaborate-with-other-countries-on-covid-vaccine-fauci-101620959258647.html
14-05-2021||World||Chinese firm's Covid-19 drug claims draw scientists' skepticism||Chinese biotech firm Kintor Pharmaceutical Limited [9939.HK] saw its stock price jump by more than 20% the day after it announced on April 25 that it had "completed the first patient enrollment and dosing" in a late-stage U.S. clinical trial of its experimental COVID-19 treatment.It was the company's latest announcement about the progress of the drug, Proxalutamide. The Hong Kong-listed company's stock price has nearly quadrupled since March 1 as some analysts wrote about the big sales potential for a COVID-19 treatment. Kintor has seen its market capitalization soar to HK$23.4 billion ($3 billion) from HK$6.6 billion ($850 million) on March 1.But the company had not dosed any patients at all as of early May, according to the doctor Kintor identified as its principal clinical trial investigator in documents it posted on a U.S. trials website. The doctor - California-based gastroenterologist Zeid Kayali - also told Reuters he was "not in charge" of the trial, contradicting what the company had said in the documents describing the study. Kayali declined further comment, referring questions to Kintor.Told of Kayali's comments, Kintor Chief Financial Officer Lucy Lu said Kayali was merely one of its trial investigators. She declined further comment on the firm's announcement on patient dosing. Lu declined as well to name a different principal investigator, or the institution overseeing the trial, calling that information "confidential."Companies are not obligated to release such information. But many pharmaceutical firms routinely provide details about who is leading their clinical trial and which research organization or medical institution is responsible for ensuring patient safety and scientific validity.Kintor's lack of transparency, along with inconsistencies in the company's statements, raise a "red flag" about the company's claims, said Stephen Ostroff, a former U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) chief scientist and two-time acting FDA commissioner.Another red flag: Kintor has repeatedly touted a Brazilian study of Proxalutamide that claimed an effectiveness rate so high that Ostroff and other pharmaceutical specialists say it is hard to believe.The Brazil study said Proxalutamide showed a 92% reduction in mortality risk among hospitalized COVID-19 patients, which Ostroff said would be "breathtakingly extraordinary" if true.Alexandre Cavalcanti, director of Sao Paulo's HCor Research Institute, called a presentation of the study's findings by its authors "amateur" and said its claimed reduction of mortality risk is too high to be credible in light of a global struggle to find effective COVID-19 treatments.STOCK GETS A BOOSTProxalutamide does not have regulatory approvals and is not available for sale. The Brazil study of the drug has not been peer-reviewed or published, but the authors released a short presentation of its results during a March news conference. Kintor promoted their findings."Based on the positive results ... we expect Proxalutamide could become an important tool in the global fight against COVID-19," Kintor's Chief Executive Tong Youzhi said in a statement announcing the Brazilian results on March 11.That same day, Kintor's stock price jumped by nearly 9%.Lu, Kintor's CFO, did not answer detailed questions from Reuters about the criticisms of the Brazil study and Kintor's claims about its U.S. trial.One of the study's authors, Brown University dermatology professor Carlos Wambier, dismissed its critics and called its results "very encouraging."In an April 2 client note, analysts from Beijing-based brokerage China Renaissance cited Kintor's progress reports as evidence of the "potentially wider application of Proxalutamide." They gave the stock a "buy" recommendation and set a target price of HK$50.75. Kintor's stock now trades at about HK$66, having reached a record high HK$82 in late April."The stock price is majorly driven by the COVID-19-related clinical progress," said Sam Hu, analyst at CMB International in Hong Kong.One of the study's authors is a consultant hired by a Brazilian Health Ministry official who is an ally of the country's President Jair Bolsonaro. The president is a vaccine skeptic and a critic of masks and lockdowns who has promoted discredited COVID-19 remedies such hydroxychloroquine. The health official, Helio Angotti, assigned a team of consultants to find evidence to support Bolsonaro's unfounded medical claims.Angotti declined to comment. Bolsonaro's office did not respond to written questions from Reuters. The consultant who co-authored the Proxalutamide study, Ricardo Zimerman, did not respond to requests for comment.RESEARCH AND POLITICSLu said Kintor is in talks with Brazilian federal health regulator Anvisa about conducting its own clinical trial. Anvisa said in a statement that Kintor had not filed any formal request to conduct a trial, but did not comment on any talks between the regulator and the company.Two Anvisa staffers, speaking on condition of anonymity, questioned the results of the Brazilian Proxalutamide study, saying the authors' results presentation contained no detailed data or evidence. One of the Anvisa staffers characterized the presentation as more marketing than science. Brazil's Health Ministry, in a March technical note, concluded that "the available evidence for the drug is still incipient," with limited information on safety and outcomes.Kintor originally conceived of Proxalutamide as a cancer treatment, before pivoting to COVID-19. Lu told Reuters that the FDA had allowed the firm to progress to a Phase III trial, skipping Phases I and II, after evaluating its previous oncology studies and the Brazil research. She declined to share any documentation from the FDA outlining that permission.The FDA declined to comment on Kintor or its COVID-19 drug.Ostroff said it was concerning and atypical that Kintor used earlier-stage oncology trials, along with the questionable Brazil study, as shortcuts to a Phase III COVID-19 trial. The company's answers to basic questions about its clinical trial, he added, were evasive."Most pharmaceutical companies, especially related to COVID-19, will be quite open about what sorts of trials they're doing," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/chinese-firm-s-covid-19-drug-claims-draw-scientists-skepticism-101620958233229.html
14-05-2021||World||6 magnitude earthquake strikes off Japan's Fukushima Prefecture||An earthquake with a magnitude of 6.0 struck off Japan's Fukushima Prefecture on Friday, according to the Japan Meteorological Agency (JMA).The temblor occurred at around 8:58 a.m. local time, with its epicenter at a latitude of 37.7 degrees north and a longitude of 141.8 degrees east, and at depth of 40 km.The quake logged 4 in some parts of Fukushima Prefecture on the Japanese seismic intensity scale which peaks at 7.So far no tsunami warning has been issued.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/6-magnitude-earthquake-strikes-off-japan-s-fukushima-prefecture-101620956390389.html
14-05-2021||World||Prince Harry thought about quitting royal life in his 20s||Prince Harry compared his royal experience to being on “The Truman Show” and “living in a zoo.”The Dutch of Sussex said during a Thursday episode of the “Armchair Expert” podcast that he contemplated quitting royal life on several occasions while in his 20s. He spoke candidly with host Dax Shepard about keeping his relationship with Meghan a secret and dealing with the U.K. media scrutiny.Harry thought his life was like the 1998 Jim Carrey film “The Truman Show.” The film tells a story about Truman Burbank’s life being televised through hidden cameras while encountering people who were hired actors.Harry said it was a heavy burden and he struggled to deal with being a member of the royal family. He feared that his pregnant wife and son, Archie, would have to deal with the spotlight the same way his late mother, Princess Diana, had to deal with the enormous attention.In 1997, Diana died in a car crash at the age of 36 in Paris while being pursued by paparazzi.“I don’t want this job, I don’t want to be here, I don’t want to be doing this. Look what it did to my mum,” the 36-year-old Harry said.In a previous interview, Harry said the royal family cut him off financially at the start of 2020 after he announced plans to step back from his roles. But he was able to afford security for his family because of the money his mother left behind.Harry and Meghan’s departure from royal duties began last year over what they described as the British media's intrusions and racist attitudes toward the duchess. He criticized some American media outlets but said they are an improvement over the ones in the U.K.He feels more liberated after he and his family moved to California.“Living here now I can actually lift my head and actually feel different,” said Harry, who added he’s able to take Archie for bicycle rides. “You can walk around feeling a little bit more free.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/prince-harry-thought-about-quitting-royal-life-in-his-20s-101620954310620.html
14-05-2021||World||Oli reappointed as Nepal PM as Oppn fails to muster majority to form new govt||K P Sharma Oli, in his capacity as leader of the largest political party in Nepal's Parliament, was reappointed as Prime Minister on Thursday night after the Opposition parties, riddled by factionalism, failed to secure majority seats to form a new government.President Bidya Devi Bhandari reappointed CPN-UML Chairman Oli, 69, as Prime Minister, three days after he lost a crucial trust vote in the House of Representatives.The Office of President in a press statement on Thursday evening said that President Bhandari reappointed Oli as Prime Minister in his capacity as leader of the largest political party in the House of Representatives as per Article 78(3) of the Constitution of Nepal.President Bhandari will administer the oath of office and secrecy to Oli at a ceremony at Shital Niwas on Friday.The president had asked the Opposition parties to come up with the support of majority lawmakers to form a new government by 9 pm Thursday after Oli, lost the vote of confidence in the House on Monday.Oli's appointment came shortly after Office of President said that no two parties or more than two parties came to lay claim to forming coalition government by the given deadline that expired at 9 PM.Oli will now have to take a vote of confidence at the House within 30 days, failing which, an attempt to form a government under Article 76 (5) would be initiated. Should both the steps fail, the House may face another dissolution and the country will move towards the direction of early elections.Political parties were engaged in hectic negotiations to form a coalition government under Article 76 (2) for the past three days, but failed to bear any fruit.Until Thursday, Nepali Congress president, who got backing from CPN-Maoist Centre chairman Pushpakamal Dahal "Prachanda" was hopeful to get sufficient votes in the House to stake his claim as the next Prime Minister.But as Madhav Kumar Nepal took a U-turn after his last-minute meeting with Oli, Deuba's dream to become the next Prime Minster was shattered.The dissident faction led by Madhav Nepal within the CPN-UML, with their 28-member strength in Parliament had earlier decided to resign enmasse from the Parliament paving way for Deuba to claim for the post of Prime Minister.On the other hand, Janata Samajwadi Party was also divided on the issue of extending support to Deuba as the next Prime Minister.Upendra Yadav, President of JSP had assured Deuba to extend support, but Mahanta Thakur, another president of the party, who has backing from 17 out of 32 Lawmakers, rejected Upendra's idea.The CPN-UMl, headed by Oli is the largest party with 121 seats in the House of Representatives. However, Oli, needs to prove majority through a vote of trust in the Parliament within a month of his re-appointment.Nepali Congress and Maoist Centre have 61 and 49 seats in the lower house. Their combined strength was 110, which is insufficient to win majority vote.At present 136 votes are needed to form a majority government.Oli withdrew the action taken against four UML leaders including Nepal and assured to address their other demands. If 28 UML MPs had resigned, the total strength of the House would have been reduced to 243. Currently there are 271 valid members in the House. If they had resigned only 122 votes would be sufficient to stake claim for majority government.Earlier, Baburam Bhattarai, a senior leader of JSP-N, said all parties needed to form a new national coalition government and hold elections in one year.Bhattarai said such a government should not be led by a former prime minister or the current prime minister.Bhattarai said such a government should be run based on a common minimum programme, should resolve the COVID crisis, and ensure economic relief packages, constitution amendment, and truth and reconciliation.Given the parties’ strengths and particularly the factional feuds in the CPN-UML and the Janata Samajbadi, many say the current numbers game is just a futile exercise and that the country, which has had eight different governments in a decade, would sooner or later head towards early polls, the Kathmandu Post reported.Nepal plunged into a political crisis on December 20 last year after President Bhandari dissolved the House and announced fresh elections on April 30 and May 10 at the recommendation of Prime Minister Oli, amidst a tussle for power within the ruling Nepal Communist Party (NCP).Oli's move to dissolve the House sparked protests from a large section of the NCP led by his rival 'Prachanda'.In February, the apex court reinstated the dissolved House, in a setback to Oli who was preparing for snap polls. Known for his pro-China stance, Oli had earlier served as the country's prime minister from October 11, 2015 to August 3, 2016 during which Kathmandu's ties with New Delhi had strained.Nepal's COVID-19 cases reached 431,191 as 8,842 fresh cases were reported in the past 24 hours on Thursday. As many as 214 more deaths were also logged, taking the national toll to 4,466.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/oli-reappointed-as-nepal-pm-as-oppn-fails-to-muster-majority-to-form-new-govt-101620951467234.html
14-05-2021||World||Joe Biden calls lifting of indoor mask rule in US 'great day'||President Joe Biden told Americans on Thursday that the lifting of the rule on indoor mask wearing was "a great day" in the fight against Covid-19 and that they could now "smile again.""I think it's a great milestone, a great day," he said in a nationally televised address at the White House.In often emotional remarks, Biden declared a major victory in the more than year-long battle which has seen more than half a million Americans die.However he noted that the Centers for Disease Control (CDC) decision to stop recommending masks for all indoor activities applied only to people who have received both shots of vaccines.Also Read: US lifts most mask guidance in key step back to post Covid normalcyBiden implored those yet to be completely vaccinated to keep wearing masks for now."Please protect yourself until we get to the finish line. Because as great as this announcement is, we don't want to let up. We all know how tough this virus us. The safest thing for the country, is for everyone to get vaccinated," he said.Biden spoke about the hundreds of thousands of deaths and the lives upended for millions more as they missed family gatherings and important rituals.The Democrat then heaped praise on ordinary Americans who, he said, had met the challenge head on -- and better than in some other countries."You've endured all this. When your country asked you to get vaccinated, you did. The American people stepped up. You did what I consider to be your patriotic duty. That's how we got to this day. As president, I can say I'm pleased... but not surprised," he said."As the virus tragically rages in other countries, as other nations, even wealthy nations, are mired in the challenges of slow vaccine rollout and poor economic conditions, things are very different here."Biden noted that coronavirus cases are down in 49 of 50 states, saying deaths were down 80 percent to their lowest level since April 2020, when the disease was just taking a grip.However, "it's going to take a little more time," he said. "Most people under the age of 65 aren't vaccinated yet."Although pleading for patience, he invited those vaccinated to once again experience the pleasure of smiling."Take your mask off. You've earned the right to do something that Americans are known for all around the world: greeting others with a smile," he said."As tough as this pandemic's been, we will get through it. We will rebuild our economy, reclaim our lives and get back to normal," he said."Laugh again, we'll know joy again and we'll smile again. Now, we'll see one another smile, look at the smiles on other people's faces."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/joe-biden-calls-lifting-of-indoor-mask-rule-great-day-101620950697066.html
14-05-2021||World||Prince Harry says moved to US to 'break cycle' of family 'pain and suffering'||Prince Harry moved his wife and son to California to break a family cycle of "pain and suffering" after realizing his father Prince Charles "treated me the way he was treated," he said in an interview released Thursday.The remarks comes in the wake of Harry and Meghan's explosive television interview with Oprah Winfrey, in which they raised allegations of racism in the royal family, and said Charles had cut them off financially.Harry told "Armchair Expert" podcast host Dax Shephard that while he did not blame his father, he had resolved to avoid making the same mistakes with his own children."When it comes to parenting, if I've experienced some form of pain or suffering because of the pain or suffering that perhaps my father or my parents had suffered, I'm going to make sure that I break that cycle," said Harry."There's a lot of genetic pain and suffering that gets passed on anyway. And as parents we should be doing the most we can to try and say, "You know what? That happened to me, I'm going to make sure that doesn't happen to you," he added.Harry said that once he began thinking about his father's own upbringing, he came to realize that the Prince of Wales had not had it easy, being brought up as a royal."So that means that he's treated me the way that he was treated. Which means, 'how can I change that for my own kids?' And well, here I am," the prince told Shephard."I've now moved my whole family to the US."The allegations made in Harry and Meghan's earlier interview with Winfrey in March have plunged the monarchy into its biggest crisis since the death of William and Harry's mother, Princess Diana, in 1997.Harry and Winfrey will collaborate again for mental health documentary series "The Me You Can't See" premiering May 21 on Apple TV .Promoting that forthcoming series, Harry told Shepherd he had realized that he did not want his royal duties in his early 20s, in part because of "what it did to my mom.""The three major times I felt completely helpless -- one when I was a kid in the back of the car with my mom being chased by paparazzi, two was in Afghanistan in an Apache helicopter, and then the third one was with my wife," he said.Harry and Meghan now live in Montecito, around an hour north of Los Angeles, and are expecting a daughter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/prince-harry-says-moved-to-us-to-break-cycle-of-family-pain-and-suffering-101620950023514.html
14-05-2021||World||Colonial hacker group’s dark web site no longer accessible||The dark web page belonging to the ransomware group accused of attacking Colonial Pipeline Co. attack has gone down.The FBI and cybersecurity experts identified DarkSide as the group behind the Colonial attack that forced the company to shut down operations, triggering fuel shortages in parts of the U.S. Some evidence has linked DarkSide’s operations to Russia and other Eastern European countries.It’s not clear if the site is down because of a technical snafu, which aren’t uncommon on the dark web, or some action by law enforcement or the group itself, which is facing the wrath of the U.S. government. Ransomware is a type of malware that encrypts a victim’s data; the groups sometime steal data too. The hackers then ask for a payment to unlock the files or return the stolen data.DarkSide maintains at least eight domains or websites on the dark web. One is a public-facing website used by DarkSide and its hackers-for-hire to name and shame victims who’ve ignored or refused the group’s ransom demands. The other seven sites are used by the group to host the data they’ve stolen.Four of those seven domains are also down. Three are loading blank, white pages. One simply reads, “Darkside CDN.” CDN stands for content delivery network. A separate site used as a payment gateway is still operational.Dark web researchers speculated that the outage could be DarkSide’s effort to duck law enforcement given the turmoil caused by the attack. “DarkSide is likely going to go quiet and rebrand itself, as we’ve observed with other dark net ransomware operators in the past when they became targets of law enforcement,” said Mark Turnage, co-founder of DarkOwl, a dark web and cyber research firm.Some ransomware groups maintain pages on the dark web where they post stolen documents to pressure victims into paying or list the names of companies that have refused their demands. DarkSide’s site posted what appeared to be three new victims on its site as recently as May 12, as they continued to leak new data on the site for existing digital hostages.In a message posted after the Colonial attack, the group hinted at contrition and that a “partner” might be to blame. Like some other ransomware groups, DarkSide offers to sell its malware to others in what is known as “ransomware-as-a-service.”“We are apolitical. We do not participate in geopolitics,” the message said. “Our goal is to make money and not creating problems for society. From today, we introduce moderation and check each company that our partners want to encrypt to avoid social consequences in the future.”(Updates with details about darkweb payment site in fifth paragraph)For more articles like this, please visit us at bloomberg.com©2021 Bloomberg L.P.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/colonial-hacker-group-s-dark-web-site-no-longer-accessible-101620948604511.html
14-05-2021||World||Israel sends air, ground troops to Gaza as conflict intensifies||Israel said Friday it sent ground forces into action and pounded Gaza in response to a new barrage of rocket fire from the Hamas-run enclave in a conflict that has now claimed over 100 Palestinian lives."Israeli planes and troops on the ground are carrying out an attack in the Gaza Strip," the Israeli army said in a brief message.The escalation was confirmed by army spokesman John Conricus, although he did not specify the scale of the operation.As the violence intensified, Israel security forces scrambled to contain deadly riots between Jews and Arabs, with projectiles also fired on Israel from Lebanon.US Secretary of State Antony Blinken said Washington was "deeply concerned about the violence in the streets of Israel", voicing support for a United Nations Security Council meeting "early next week" on the crisis."We believe that Israelis and Palestinians deserve equal measures of freedom, security, dignity and prosperity," Blinken said.There were intense artillery exchanges Thursday night, and AFP reporters saw Israeli troops assembling at the security barrier.Balls of flames rose high into the sky after strikes smashed into densely packed Gaza.Dozens of rockets were fired from Gaza towards the southern Israeli coastal cities of Ashdod and Ashkelon, and in the vicinity of Tel Aviv's Ben Gurion airport."We are prepared, and continue to prepare for various scenarios," Conricus said, describing a ground offensive as "one scenario".In Gaza, AFP photographers said people were evacuating their homes in the northeastern part of the enclave ahead of possible Israeli attacks, with Hamas, the Islamist group that controls Gaza, warning of a "heavy response" to a possible ground incursion.- 'Massive reinforcement' -With the conflict showing no signs of easing, Israel has been rocked by an unprecedented wave of mob violence, in which both Arabs and Jews have been savagely beaten and police stations attacked.Defence Minister Benny Gantz ordered a "massive reinforcement" to suppress the internal unrest.The heavy bombardments coincided with the start of Eid al-Fitr, which marks the end of the Muslim holy fasting month of Ramadan, and saw the faithful pray at mosques and amid the rubble of Gaza's collapsed buildings.Israel's air force launched multiple air strikes, targeting locations linked to Hamas, with the air force saying jets had struck a "military compound" of the group's "intelligence headquarters".At least 103 people have been killed since Monday, including 27 children, and more than 580 wounded, the health ministry in Gaza said.Heavy bombardments have brought down entire tower blocks.Inside Israel, seven people have been killed since Monday, including one six-year-old, after a rocket struck a family home.- 'Preventing pogroms' -The Israeli military said earlier it had hit targets in Gaza more than 600 times while 1,750 rockets were fired from the enclave.Hundreds of rockets were intercepted by the Iron Dome air defence system.Three rockets were also fired from southern Lebanon towards Israel, landing in the Mediterranean Sea, Israel's army said.A source close to Israel's arch-enemy Hezbollah said the Lebanese Shiite group had no link to the incident.The military escalation was triggered by weekend unrest at Jerusalem's Al-Aqsa mosque compound, which is sacred to both Muslims and Jews.The disturbances, in which riot police had repeatedly clashed with Palestinians, has been driven by anger over the looming evictions of Palestinian families from the Sheikh Jarrah neighbourhood of east Jerusalem.The surging tensions sparked clashes in many of Israel's mixed towns where Jews live alongside Arabs, who make up about 20 percent of the country's population.Nearly 1,000 border police were called in to quell the violence, and over 400 people were arrested.Police spokesman Micky Rosenfeld said inter-communal violence in multiple towns was at a nadir not seen for decades, and that police were "literally preventing pogroms".- 'Two-front battle' -Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said police were increasing their use of force, warning of the "option" of deploying soldiers in towns.Israeli far-right groups have clashed with security forces and Arab Israelis, with television footage Wednesday airing footage of a far-right mob beating a man they considered an Arab in Bat Yam, near Tel Aviv, leaving him with serious injuries.In Lod, which has become a flashpoint of Arab-Jewish clashes this week with an Arab resident shot dead and a synagogue torched, a gunman opened fire Thursday at a group of Jews, wounding one.Netanyahu said the violence was "unacceptable"."Nothing justifies the lynching of Arabs by Jews, and nothing justifies the lynching of Jews by Arabs," he said, adding Israel was fighting a battle "on two fronts".Amid the rocket fire, Israel's civil aviation authority said it had diverted all incoming passenger flights headed for Tel Aviv's Ben Gurion airport to Ramon airport in the south.Hamas announced it had also fired a rocket at Ramon, in a bid to stop all air traffic to Israel.Israeli media said the rocket missed its target, but a number of international airlines cancelled flights amid the aerial onslaught.bur-gl/tp/dv/pvh||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/israel-sends-troops-on-ground-as-gaza-conflict-intensifies-101620945889664.html
14-05-2021||World||Israel-Palestine conflict: Day of bombs, riots, tears||Hamas sent a heavy barrage of rockets deep into Israel on Thursday, and Israel pounded Gaza with more airstrikes. The relentless escalation of hostilities came as Egyptian negotiators held talks with the two sides, intensifying efforts at mediation.In a potential escalation on Thursday night, at least three rockets were fired from southern Lebanon towards Israel, an attack that opened a new front in the fighting.Communal violenceWhile some rocket attacks reached the Tel Aviv area, there were violent riots with Arab and Jewish mobs rampaging through the streets, savagely beating people and torching cars. Flights have been cancelled or diverted away from the country’s main airport.Palestinians, meanwhile, sombrely marked the end of the Muslim holy month of Ramadan on Thursday as militants fired one barrage of rockets after another and Israel carried out waves of bone-rattling airstrikes.At least 87 deathsGaza’s health ministry said the death toll has climbed to 87 Palestinians, including 18 children and eight women, with 530 people wounded.The Islamic Jihad group confirmed the deaths of seven militants, while Hamas has acknowledged 13 of its militants killed, including a senior commander.Seven people have been killed in Israel. Among them were a soldier killed by an anti-tank missile and a six-year-old child hit in a rocket attack.Troops sent to borderIsrael deployed additional troops to Gaza’s border on Thursday as the military conflict with Palestinian Islamists raged on. Army tanks shelled the Palestinian enclave and AFP reporters saw troops assembling at the security barrier. But the armed forces maintained a ground offensive was not the primary focus of the three-day-old operation against Palestinian militants.“We are prepared, and continue to prepare for various scenarios,” army spokesman Jonathan Conricus told AFP, describing a ground offensive as “one scenario”.ICC warns against crimesIndividuals involved in a new eruption of bloodshed may be targeted by an International Criminal Court (ICC) investigation now underway into alleged war crimes in earlier bouts of the conflict, its top prosecutor, Fatou Bensouda, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/israelpalestine-conflict-day-of-bombs-riots-tears-101620943202387.html
14-05-2021||World||US lifts most mask guidance in key step back to post Covid normalcy||President Joe Biden took his biggest step yet toward declaring victory over the coronavirus pandemic -- as public health officials said fully vaccinated Americans can ditch their masks in most settings, even indoors or in large groups.“Today is a great day for America in our long battle with coronavirus,” Biden said in the White House Rose Garden on Thursday, calling the US vaccination program an “historical logistical achievement.”The guidance shift Thursday is a turning point in the fight against Covid-19 and comes as US caseloads fall and vaccinations rise. It signals a broad return to everyday life, and is also a bet that any surge in spread from relaxed guidelines won’t be enough to reverse progress in inoculations. The administration also used it as a further incentive for vaccination.“The rule is very simple: Get vaccinated or wear a mask until you do,” Biden said.The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention announced the change in guidance while citing growing evidence that vaccines are effective against variants and outside of clinical trials, and fully vaccinated people are at low risk to spread the virus to someone else.“Anyone who is fully vaccinated can participate in indoor or outdoor activities, large or small, without wearing a mask or physical distancing,” said CDC Director Rochelle Walensky. “If you are fully vaccinated, you can start doing the things that you had stopped doing because of the pandemic. We have all longed for this moment when we can get back to some sense of normalcy.”The CDC guidance spelled out ample exceptions, however, that signal the era of masks isn’t over yet. The agency still recommends fully vaccinated people wear masks on “all planes, buses, trains and other forms of public transportation,” as well as in health care settings, correctional facilities, homeless shelters, and where required by state and local governments, or businesses.And masks are still recommended for people who are partially vaccinated -- those who’ve not yet waited two weeks from their final dose -- or who haven’t gotten a vaccine, including children. The announcement was first reported by the Associated Press.The CDC’s guidelines are suggestions for behavior but they don’t have the force of law. Ground-level decisions on when and where masks must be worn will now rest with states, local governments and businesses, which will have to decide whether to maintain or relax their masking mandates, and what mix of carrots and sticks they will use to compel compliance.‘Free At Last’Yet even with the exceptions, the announcement represents a watershed moment. Only six weeks ago, Walensky had warned of “impending doom” as cases, hospitalizations and deaths rose. Thursday’s guidance was met in Washington with sighs of relief, as lawmakers in Congress and staff at the White House almost immediately dropped their masks. “Free at last,” Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell said.About 59% of American adults have received at least one shot, while 45% have received both. The Covid-19 vaccine made by Pfizer Inc. and BioNTech SE was cleared for use in children ages 12 to 15 years old this week, fueling the inoculation campaign. New daily Covid-19 cases, meanwhile, have been declining for weeks. Still, the pace of vaccinations has slowed from highs of a month ago, raising concerns about whether hesitancy will impede widespread protection in the population.Biden has set a goal of 70% of adult Americans receiving at least one vaccine shot by July 4, another symbolic milestone. Biden has said he hopes the country will be able to mark its annual Independence Day holiday by ridding itself of the virus.Still, even as the situation in the US improves, the pandemic is raging in some vaccine-starved nations. Biden faces growing calls to share US vaccine supply as the virus explodes in India, Brazil and other countries. The US administration has claimed nearly every dose made on U.S. soil so far, though says it will soon share 60 million AstraZeneca doses with other nations.Masks outdoorsThe most recent CDC guidance represents a major shift for the typically cautious agency, including from its own recommendations just weeks earlier. In late April, federal health officials said fully vaccinated Americans could drop their masks when exercising, dining and socializing outdoors in small groups, as well as when gathering indoors with other fully vaccinated people.Some question whether the guidance is premature, as only 35% of the US population is fully vaccinated, and an entire population group -- children under age 12 -- doesn’t yet qualify for a shot.“I think it’s really important that the CDC has changed their guidance and is finally demonstrating the effectiveness of vaccines,” said Leana Wen, an emergency physician and public health professor at George Washington University who previously served as Baltimore’s Health Commissioner. “However, it seems that they’ve gone from one extreme to another.”The CDC considers someone fully vaccinated two weeks after their final dose -- either two weeks after the second dose of vaccines from Moderna Inc. or Pfizer, or two weeks after receiving the single-shot Johnson & Johnson vaccine.Some Republican senators pressed Walensky on the agency’s guidance for fully vaccinated people at a hearing Tuesday, with Senator Bill Cassidy, a Louisiana Republican, expressing concern about the pace at which the CDC was releasing recommendations.“The American people have just lost patience with us, with you guys,” Cassidy said. “I just ask you to kind of be aware of their frustration and get a little real time into updating these things.”Biden has steadily delivered a more optimistic tone on the pandemic, while warning regularly that the US isn’t yet out of the woods. He has launched what he calls a “new phase” of the vaccination program, which emphasizes rural clinics, pharmacies and mobile sites instead of mass vaccination clinics, as demand for shots wanes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/cdc-lifts-most-mask-guidance-in-key-step-back-to-normal-101620941459599.html
14-05-2021||World||Texas lawmakers approve abortion ban as early as 6 weeks||Texas would ban abortions after as early as six weeks — before many women even know they are pregnant — and allow private citizens to enforce the rule through civil lawsuits against doctors and others under a measure given final approval by state lawmakers Thursday.The Senate vote sends the bill to Republican Gov. Greg Abbott, who is expected to sign it into law. That would bring Texas in line with about a dozen other GOP-led states that have passed so-called “heartbeat bills" that federal courts have mostly blocked. The Texas measure is also likely to draw a swift legal challenge from abortion rights groups.The bill would ban abortions after the first detection of an embryonic “heartbeat.” Advanced technology can detect an electric signal flutter as early as six weeks into a pregnancy, even though the embryo isn’t yet a fetus and doesn’t have a heart. An embryo is termed a fetus beginning in the 11th week of pregnancy, medical experts say.A unique provision in the Texas bill prohibits state officials from enforcing the ban. Instead, it allows anyone, even someone outside Texas, to sue a doctor or anyone else who may have helped someone get an abortion after the time limit, and seek financial damages of up to $10,000 per defendant.“The Texas Heartbeat Act is novel in approach, allowing for citizens to hold abortionists accountable through private lawsuits. No heartbeat law passed by another state has taken this strategy. Additionally, the bill does not punish women who obtain abortions,” said Rebecca Parma, Texas Right to Life senior legislative associate.Critics say that provision would allow abortion opponents to flood the courts with lawsuits to harass doctors, patients, nurses, domestic violence counselors, a friend who drove a woman to a clinic, or even a parent who paid for a procedure.And they argue that it would violate state constitutional requirements that civil lawsuits can be filed only by impacted parties. Under the bill, a person filing the lawsuit would not need any personal connection to the abortion in question.The bill has been opposed by medical groups.“Texas has now joined the new wave of extreme abortion bans passed this year across the U.S.,” said Nancy Northup, president and chief executive officer of the Center for Reproductive Rights. “This bill essentially opens the floodgates to allow anyone who is hostile to abortion to sue doctors and clinics, consuming their resources and forcing them to shut down. We will pursue all legal options to prevent this law from taking effect.”Texas law currently bans abortion after 20 weeks, with exceptions for a woman with a life-threatening medical condition or if the fetus has a severe abnormality.Proponents of these so-called “heartbeat bills” are hoping for a legal challenge to eventually reach the US Supreme Court, where they look for the conservative coalition assembled under President Donald Trump to end the constitutional right to abortion protected under the high court’s landmark 1973 Roe v. Wade ruling.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/texas-lawmakers-approve-abortion-ban-as-early-as-6-weeks-101620940967057.html
14-05-2021||World||Israel-Palestinian conflict escalates, Gaza death toll tops 100||Israel pounded Gaza and deployed extra troops to the border Thursday as Palestinians fired barrages of rockets back, with the death toll in the enclave on the fourth day of conflict climbing to over 100.As violence escalated, Israel security forces scrambled to contain deadly riots between Jews and Arabs, with projectiles also fired on Israel from Lebanon.US Secretary of State Antony Blinken said Washington was "deeply concerned about the violence in the streets of Israel", voicing support for a United Nations Security Council meeting "early next week" on the crisis."We believe that Israelis and Palestinians deserve equal measures of freedom, security, dignity and prosperity," Blinken said.There were intense artillery exchanges Thursday night, and AFP reporters saw Israeli troops assembling at the security barrier.Balls of flames rose high into the sky after strikes smashed into densely packed Gaza.Dozens of rockets were fired from Gaza towards the southern Israeli coastal cities of Ashdod and Ashkelon, and in the vicinity of Tel Aviv's Ben Gurion airport."We are prepared, and continue to prepare for various scenarios," army spokesman Jonathan Conricus said, describing a ground offensive as "one scenario".In Gaza, AFP photographers said people were evacuating their homes in the northeastern part of the enclave ahead of possible Israeli attacks, with Hamas, the Islamist group that controls Gaza, warning of a "heavy response" to a possible ground incursion.'Massive reinforcement'With the conflict showing no signs of easing, Israel has been rocked by an unprecedented wave of mob violence, in which both Arabs and Jews have been savagely beaten and police stations attacked.Defence Minister Benny Gantz ordered a "massive reinforcement" to suppress the internal unrest.Despite global alarm and diplomatic efforts to de-escalate Gaza hostilities, which US President Joe Biden said he hoped would end "sooner than later", hundreds of rockets again tore through the skies.The heavy bombardments coincided with the start of Eid al-Fitr, which marks the end of the Muslim holy fasting month of Ramadan, and saw the faithful pray at mosques and amid the rubble of Gaza's collapsed buildings.Israel's air force launched multiple air strikes, targeting locations linked to Hamas, with the air force saying jets had struck a "military compound" of the group's "intelligence headquarters".At least 103 people have been killed since Monday, including 27 children, and more than 580 wounded, the health ministry in Gaza said.Heavy bombardments have brought down entire tower blocks.Inside Israel, seven people have been killed since Monday, including one six-year-old, after a rocket struck a family home.'Preventing pogroms'The Israeli military said it had hit targets in Gaza more than 600 times while 1,750 rockets were fired from the enclave.Hundreds of rockets were intercepted by the Iron Dome air defence system.Three rockets were also fired from southern Lebanon towards Israel, landing in the Mediterranean Sea, Israel's army said.A source close to Israel's arch-enemy Hezbollah said the Lebanese Shiite group had no link to the incident.The military escalation was triggered by weekend unrest at Jerusalem's Al-Aqsa mosque compound, which is sacred to both Muslims and Jews.The disturbances, in which riot police had repeatedly clashed with Palestinians, has been driven by anger over the looming evictions of Palestinian families from the Sheikh Jarrah neighbourhood of east Jerusalem.The surging tensions sparked clashes in many of Israel's mixed towns where Jews live alongside Arabs, who make up about 20 percent of the country's population.Nearly 1,000 border police were called in to quell the violence, and over 400 people were arrested.Police spokesman Micky Rosenfeld said inter-communal violence in multiple towns was at a nadir not seen for decades, and that police were "literally preventing pogroms".'Two-front battle'Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said police were increasing their use of force, warning of the "option" of deploying soldiers in towns.Israeli far-right groups have clashed with security forces and Arab Israelis, with television footage Wednesday airing footage of a far-right mob beating a man they considered an Arab in Bat Yam, near Tel Aviv, leaving him with serious injuries.In Lod, which has become a flashpoint of Arab-Jewish clashes this week with an Arab resident shot dead and a synagogue torched, a gunman opened fire Thursday at a group of Jews, wounding one.Netanyahu said the violence was "unacceptable"."Nothing justifies the lynching of Arabs by Jews, and nothing justifies the lynching of Jews by Arabs," he said, adding Israel was fighting a battle "on two fronts".Amid the rocket fire, Israel's civil aviation authority said it had diverted all incoming passenger flights headed for Tel Aviv's Ben Gurion airport to Ramon airport in the south.Hamas announced it had also fired a rocket at Ramon, in a bid to stop all air traffic to Israel.Israeli media said the rocket missed its target, but a number of international airlines cancelled flights amid the aerial onslaught.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/israelpalestinian-conflict-escalates-gaza-death-toll-tops-100-101620940166130.html
14-05-2021||India||Telugu writer-director Nandyala Ravi passes away due to Covid-19 complications||Telugu film industry expressed shock and grief at the untimely demise of writer-director Nandyala Ravi, who breathed his last on Friday morning, days after being hospitalised in Hyderabad due to complications related to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).Ravi, who is survived by his wife, daughter and son, was facing financial crisis during his hospitalisation, and was helped by comic actor Saptagiri, who donated ₹one lakh for Ravi’s treatment.The late writer-director hailed from Saripalli, near Ganapavaram in Andhra Pradesh’s West Godavari district. After initially working as a writer for films like "Nenu Sitamahalakshmi,” Pandem,” “Asadhyudu,” Ravi later ventured into direction with the film, “Lakshmi Rave Ma Intiki”.Recently, he also worked as a scriptwriter for the film, “Power Play”.Many Telugu celebrities, including prominent names like Valluripalli Ramesh Babu, KK Radha Mohan, Venugopal Bekkem, Vijay Kumar Konda and Sapthagiri, condoled Ravi's demise.The Telugu film industry has witnessed the passing away of a number of actors and technicians during the pandemic, including director Akkineni Vinay Kumar, music director KS Chandrasekhar and actor-cum-journalist TNR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telugu-writer-director-nandyala-ravi-passes-away-due-to-covid-19-complications-101621014626257.html
14-05-2021||India||Over 10,000 oxyegn concentrators, 19 plants sent to states: Centre||To combat the second wave of Covid-19, the Indian government has so far dispatched 10,796 oxygen concentrators, 12,269 oxygen cylinders, 19 oxygen generation plants, 6,497 ventilators/Bi-PAP, and about 4.2 lakhs Remdesivir vials to various states and union territories (UTs) which were received as foreign aid.An official press release stated that these items were delivered between April 27 and May 13 this year.It said that major consignments were received on May 12 and 13 from countries like Indonesia, Luxembourg, Oman, South Korea, UK, USISPF, Finland, and Greece which included 1,506 oxygen concentrators, 434 oxygen cylinder, and 58 ventilators/ BiPAP/ CPAP."The Government of India, at the forefront of the 'Whole of government' approach to combat the ongoing Covid-19 has been receiving international donations and aid of Covid-19 relief medical supplies and equipment since April 27 from different countries/organisations to augment its efforts in fighting the unprecedented surge of cases. Through a streamlined and systematic mechanism, various ministries/departments of Government of India have seamlessly collaborated for expeditiously delivering the incoming global aid to states and UTs," the release said.It said that effective immediate allocation, and streamlined delivery to the recipient states/UTs and institutions is an ongoing exercise."The Union Health Ministry is comprehensively monitoring this on a regular basis," the release said.It said a dedicated coordination cell has been created in the Union Health Ministry to coordinate the receipt and allocation of foreign Covid relief material as grants, aid and donations.This cell started functioning from April 26. A Standard Operating Procedure has been framed and implemented by the Health Ministry since May 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-10-000-oxyegn-concentrators-19-plants-sent-to-states-centre-101621014571098.html
14-05-2021||India||Forensic tests to reveal exact cause of deaths of 18 elephants in Assam, experts point to lightning||The Assam government on Friday decided to conduct forensic tests of the 18 elephants that reportedly died due to lightning two days ago in Barhampur area of Nagaon district. The bodies of the elephants, all adults and sub-adults, were buried on Friday after a team of veterinarians conducted the post-mortem. Some remains have been sent to the state forensic laboratory in Guwahati for further tests. The incident took place at Bamuni Pahar under Kothiatoli forest range of Nagaon district. Bodies of the pachyderms were found on Thursday-- four were found at the bottom of a hillock and 14 others on top of it. Though initial inquiry had revealed lightning to be the likely cause of the deaths, wildlife experts had suspected that mass poisoning could also be a reason as Assam had earlier witnessed deaths of elephants due to poisonings. “From what we saw, it appears the deaths were caused due to lightning as there were no visible signs of struggle before the elephants died. But the exact cause will be known only after reports of post mortem and forensic examinations,” said forest and environment minister Parimal Suklabaidya. The Assam government has constituted a team to be headed by a senior forest officer and seven veterinarians to probe the incident. They will submit their preliminary report within three days and a detailed one in 15 days. On Friday, almost the entire day was spent on conducting post-mortems, bringing the bodies of the pachyderms down from the hillock and burying them in open grounds. “The post-mortem reports will be available in a day or two, but we may have to wait a little longer for outcome of the forensic tests. A visit to the area had revealed that some trees near the bodies of the elephants were burnt, which suggested that lightning may have struck the area,” P Sivakumar, director, Kaziranga National Park and Tiger Reserve (KNPTR) said. Elephant experts and CEO of Aaranyak, a wildlife NGO, Bibhab Talukdar, said that though it initially appeared unlikely that lightning could have resulted in the deaths, but evidence now suggests that it was the most probable cause. “Our studies have revealed that in Assam, the most intense lightning strikes happen prior to dawn and in the period between April-May, our region is the third most prone to lightning after parts of Central Amercia and Australia. An international weather website had also shown lightning strikes happening in the area where the elephants died on Wednesday,” said Rahul Mahanta, professor of Physics at Cotton University. “There have been previous instances in the past where large numbers of animals have died due to lightning. In 2016, over 300 reindeer died in Norway in a lightning strike. Photos and videos of the incident at Nagaon suggest that the elephants died in an instant after their nervous system got severely affected by the lightning strike,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/forensic-tests-to-reveal-exact-cause-of-deaths-of-18-elephants-in-assam-experts-point-to-lightning-101621013700349.html
14-05-2021||India||Ahmedabad hospital creates separate ward for Mucormycosis as cases continue to be reported across India||As many as 296 patients ailing from Mucormycosis or ‘Black Fungus’ have been admitted to Ahmedabad civil hospital in Gujarat, and a separate ward for them has been opened within the hospital premises, Dr JV Modi, medical superintendent at the hospital told news agency ANI. Adding that provision for more beds will be made as and when the need arises.“296 patients with Mucormycosis admitted here, a separate ward has been opened. If needed, we'll increase beds,” said Dr Modi“Government provides us medicines -- amphotericin & oral antifungal drugs -- for its treatment, daily as per need,” he added.Mucormycosis, which is caused by a black fungus called mucor, has been on the rise all over the country. Symptoms for which include blurred vision, shortness of breath, discolouration over the nose, chest pains, coughing etc. Covid-19 afflicted patients who are diabetic have a higher chance of catching this infection.Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has issued a guideline to doctors on the steps to follow in preventing the fungal infection from afflicting immunocompromised individuals. Pune district, which recorded around 270 cases of Mucormycosis so far, has framed a set of Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) for treating patients.Niti Ayog member Dr VK Paul told reporters on May 7 that there is no major outbreak of Mucormycosis in the country, and that the government is monitoring the situation.“There are reports of this fungal infection among Covid-19 patients. But I want to reassure you that there is no major outbreak and we are monitoring the cases at our level," Paul had said.State governments have however begun to voice their concern over this fungal infection affecting recovered Covid patients. Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot urged the Central government to take the disease seriously and conduct research on it. Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope asked the Centre to bring down prices of the drugs used to treat the infection so as to prevent black marketing. Maharashtra has reported 1,500 cases of the infection so far, said Tope.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahmedabad-hospital-creates-separate-ward-for-mucormycosis-as-cases-continue-to-be-reported-across-india-101621012409076.html
14-05-2021||India||Sikkim to impose week-long lockdown from May 17||The Himalayan state of Sikkim will clamp a week-long lockdown from Monday amid a spike in Coronavirus infections across the country. A notice issued by Sikkim’s home department on Friday said that a complete lockdown will commence from 5 am on May 17 and end at 5 am on May 24. Only emergency services will remain operational. In 2020, Sikkim witnessed fewer cases than other states but the spike has been sharp this year with 31 deaths reported between Monday and Friday. Sikkim, which reported around 50 new Covid-19 cases in a day three weeks ago, reported 231 new cases and 9 deaths on Thursday. On Friday, the state reported 3,002 active Covid-19 cases and 6 deaths.But the state, according to the Union health ministry data released on Friday morning, had a high positivity rate. Sikkim’s North district has reported a positivity rate of 46.6% and increasing, East district has 24%, South district has 20.5% and the West district has 18.3%. Just four days ago, according to the Union health ministry, the positivity rate of the four districts ranged from 26.7% to 14.8%..Sikkim’s lockdown rules prohibit meetings and movement of people and goods. Only people and vehicles involved in the movement of essential food items, LPG, medicines etc. have been exempted.All state government offices, shops, ration shops, private commercial establishments, educational institutions, gymnasiums, markets and factories will remain closed for a week. Medicine shops, medicine production units, oxygen suppliers and allied sectors have been kept out of the purview of the lockdown. Central government offices will operate according to guidelines issued by the Centre. Movement of passengers through Pakyong Airport will be allowed if they produce negative RT-PCR reports, the notice said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sikkim-to-impose-week-long-lockdown-from-may-17-101621012020341.html
14-05-2021||India||7,900 MT oxygen delivered via Oxygen Express trains: Railways||The Union ministry of Railways said on Friday its special 'Oxygen Express' trains, which are being operated to supply liquid medical oxygen (LMO) to various states amid complaints of shortage, have delivered nearly 7,900 metric tonnes (MT) of the compound in nearly 500 tankers to 12 states thus far.Noting that Indian Railways’ Oxygen Express trains commenced operations with the delivery of 126 MT of LMO to Maharashtra on April 24, the ministry, in a press release, said these trains have supplied 800 MT of LMO across the nation in the last few days.“Crisscrossing the country, the Railways is picking up oxygen from places like Hapa and Mundra in the west and Rourkela, Durgapur, Tatanagar, Angul in the east, and then delivering it to the states of Uttarakhand, Karnataka, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Haryana, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Haryana, Telangana, Punjab, Kerala, Delhi and Uttar Pradesh in complex operational route planning scenarios,” the release said.It also listed steps taken to ensure the delivery of LMO in the “fastest time possible.” For this, the release said, the average speed of these trains is kept above the 55-km per hour norm in most cases for long distances. “Running on high priority Green Corridor, with the highest sense of urgency, operational teams of various zones are working round the clock to ensure that Oxygen Express reaches in the fastest possible time frame,” it further said.﻿Further steps include technical stoppages of just a minute for the changing of crew and keeping tracks open to ensure “Oxygen Express keeps zipping through, '' the ministry noted further.It also said that 80 MT of LMO was delivered to Tamil Nadu earlier in the day in what was the state’s first delivery of the compound, while the second Oxygen Express, too, is on its way. First Oxygen Expresses for Andhra Pradesh and Kerala, too, are on their way with 40 MT and 118 MT of LMO, respectively, the release said.Noting that 130 Oxygen Express trains have completed their journeys thus far, it said more than 2,934 MT of LMO has been delivered to Delhi while Uttar Pradesh has received 2,210 MT thus far. Among other states, Haryana has received 1,228 MT, Maharashtra 462 MT, Madhya Pradesh 408 MT, Telangana 308 MT, Karnataka 120 MT, Uttarakhand and Tamil Nadu 80MT each, while Rajasthan has received 72 MT of oxygen thus far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/7900-mt-oxygen-delivered-via-oxygen-express-trains-railways-101621008456129.html
14-05-2021||India||Govt says media reports on 'Make in India' ventilators in Aurangabad not working 'baseless, incorrect'||The Union Health Ministry on Friday dismissed as "baseless and incorrect, and not supported by full information on the matter" some media reports suggesting that 'Make in India' ventilators in Maharashtra's Aurangabad district were not functioning optimally.  Ventilators were available in very limited numbers in government hospitals across the country at the beginning of the pandemic last year. Moreover, very limited manufacturing of ventilators was taking place in the country and most of the suppliers abroad were not in a position to make supplies of ventilators in large quantities to India.That is when the local manufacturers were encouraged to produce "Make in India" ventilators to address the huge projected demand of the country and orders placed on them. The ventilator models went through rigorous screening, technical demonstration and clinical validation process in a very limited time available, through domain knowledge experts, and after their approval, these were put into supplies.There are a few states which received the ventilators but are yet to get these installed in their hospitals. The Union health secretary wrote to seven such states on April 11 which still have more than 50 ventilators lying uninstalled with them for the last 4-5 months, the ministry said. They have been requested to get the installation expedited so that the ventilators can be put to optimal use.Ventilators manufactured by Jyoti CNC were supplied to Aurangabad Medical College. Jyoti CNC is one of the manufacturers of "Make in India" Ventilators. They have supplied ventilators centrally for Covid-19 management, as per the directions of Empowered Group-3, a statement said. These ventilators were then made available to states as per their requests. This supplier is not funded under PM CARES fund.In Aurangabad Medical College, 150 ventilators were supplied by Jyoti CNC. The first tranche of 100 ventilators reached Aurangabad on April 19, 2021 and their installation was carried out as per the allocations received from the state authorities. Forty-five out of 100 in the first lot were installed in the medical college. Installation and successful commissioning certificate in respect of all these ventilators was issued by the hospital authorities after their successful commissioning and demonstration, the ministry said.Out of these 45 installed ventilators, three were reinstalled in a private hospital (Cigma Hospital) by the state authorities. These were installed again by engineers of Jyoti CNC at the said private hospitals. The installation and commissioning certificate was issued by the hospital authorities also after their successful commissioning and demonstration, the statement said.Twenty ventilators out of the above 45 were reallocated to another private hospital (MGM Hospital) by the states authorities. No formal information was provided about this to Jyoti CNC, the statement said.Therefore, Jyoti CNC engineers had no part in the reinstallation of these ventilators. Therefore, the installation of these ventilators at the new location was done by the state authorities at their own responsibility.The ministry said 55 ventilators of the first tranche were diverted to other locations (four locations namely Civil Hospitals at Beed, Usmanabad, Parbhani and Hingoli). Installation and commissioning certificates for 50 ventilators were issued by the hospital authorities after their successful commissioning and demonstration. Five ventilators are lying uninstalled at the Beed Civil Hospital waiting for directions from the hospital authorities, the statement said.The second tranche of 50 ventilators was sent to the Aurangabad Medical College and Hospital on April 23, 2021. Only two ventilators were installed in a private hospital by the authorities (Cigma Hospital). Installation and commissioning certificates for these two ventilators have also been issued by the hospital authorities after their successful commissioning and demonstration. Directions are awaited by Jyoti CNC & HLL for further installations of 48 ventilators lying packed in Government Medical College, Aurangabad, the statement said.On April 23, (i.e. four days after successful installation of ventilators the hospital authorities at GMC Aurangabad, a complaint was received telephonically informing that eight ventilators were not functioning, the statement said.The engineers went to the site and found that flow sensor (proximal) had not been installed in three ventilators by the hospital. All eight were recalibrated by the service engineers of the vendor. One ventilator had an oxygen cell which was not functioning, the statement said.A fresh oxygen cell was reinstalled and this ventilator also made functional and commissioned subsequently, it said.Jyoti CNC received a call on May 10, 2021 informing that two ventilators have been used in ICU. Out of these, one on NIV (Non-Invasive (BiPAP) mode), is not being able to ensure saturation of the patient. The authorities said that this may be checked outside the ICU, the statement said.The same was examined by the team of service engineers and was found to be in functional condition and the team returned after satisfying the Hospital authorities. This was put back in operation on a patient on night of May 12 on NIV mode, the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-says-media-reports-on-make-in-india-ventilators-in-aurangabad-not-working-baseless-incorrect-101621008716881.html
14-05-2021||India||Assam starts special Covid-19 vaccination drive for transgenders. It’s the first in India||Thirty members of the transgender community got their first Covid-19 vaccination dose in Guwahati on Friday as part of a special drive — the first such in the entire country. A vaccination centre was set up at a shelter home for transgenders in the city with the support of the state’s health department. The drive will continue and cover other districts of the state in the next few weeks. “The main source of income of most transgender people is begging. Since they come into contact with other people, they are very vulnerable to getting infected,” said Swati Bidhan Baruah, founder of the All Assam Transgender Association and associate vice-chairperson of Assam government’s transgender welfare board. “As a marginalized group, they were getting left out of the vaccination process and when we requested the health department, we got a very positive response. They helped with the logistics and we were able to start the vaccination drive without any glitch,” said Baruah. Since, it was Eid-ul-Fitr on Friday the number of participants was limited. Over 200 people are expected to get vaccinated in the second round of the drive, to be conducted next week. “I have been interacting with transgender activists from other parts of the country and they were saying that no such vaccination programme has been launched for the community in other states. We are happy that we have been able to do it in Assam for the first time,” said Baruah. According to the 2011 census, Assam has a transgender population of 11,374. In June last year, the state government set up a welfare board for the transgender community. A separate gender category was introduced for transgender people in the state civil services examination in October last year. “We decided to start the special drive for the community to ensure they don’t get left out of the vaccination process. We will continue to provide them with the required doses so that the drive can continue and cover every transgender person in the state,” said Munindra Nath Ngatey, director, health services (family welfare).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-starts-special-covid-19-vaccination-drive-for-transgenders-it-s-the-first-in-india-101621008241525.html
14-05-2021||India||News updates from HT: Google favours preserving work permit for spouses of workers on H-1B visa and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Google leads 30 companies to preserve work permit for H-1B spousesAlphabet Inc’s Google on Friday said that it is leading nearly 30 companies and trade organisations to oppose a lawsuit that seeks to stop thousands of spouses of foreign workers on H-1B visa from working in the United States. Read MoreYSR Congress MP who asked court to cancel bail to Jagan arrested for seditionYSR Congress lawmaker Kanumuri Raghurama Krishnam Raju was arrested in Hyderabad by Andhra Pradesh’s Crime Investigation Department (CID) on Friday on charges of sedition. Read More‘Enact special law to uphold dignity of dead’: NHRC to Centre, states on Covid-19 victimsWith disturbing reports of mishandling of Covid-19 bodies emerging from across the country, the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) on Friday recommended that the government should enact a special legislation to uphold the dignity and protect the right of the dead. Read More'You all say Virat Kohli is the best purely to get few more clicks, likes and numbers': Michael VaughanIndia is going to tour England for a five-match Test series that starts in August this year. Read MoreLenovo has launched a portable USB-C battery that can charge a laptopLenovo has announced a new brand called Lenovo Go that’s all about accessories. As the company explained, they are looking to bridge the gap between working from the office and working from home with these new accessories. Read MoreThe Woman in the Window movie review: Trashy Amy Adams film is almost as bad as Parineeti's Girl on the TrainJust how bad could The Woman in the Window have been for two studios and a stacked cast to distance themselves from it, only for it to be released with almost no fanfare on Netflix? The answer: really bad. Read MoreAmid Covid, fuel price stings: Watch people react to another petrol, diesel hikeEven as the nation struggles against the second, and most severe, wave of Covid-19 infections, fuel prices continue to pinch the 'aam aadmi'. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-google-favours-preserving-work-permit-for-spouses-of-workers-on-h-1b-visa-and-all-the-latest-news-101621003616901.html
14-05-2021||India||Kerala extends lockdown till May 23 amid continuing spike in Covid-19 infections||The Kerala government on Friday decided to extend the ongoing lockdown for one more week in view of the rising cases of Covid-19, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said. Addressing the media through a virtual meet he said the state was passing through a critical phase and the government had been compelled to extend the lockdown. The eight-day lockdown was due to end on May 16 but now it will be in force till May 23. The CM said triple lockdown (strict restrictions like curfew) will be in force in four worst-hit districts of Thiruvananthapuram, Ernakulam, Thrissur and Malappuram. Earlier the core committee on the pandemic and the Indian Medical Association had sought extension of the lockdown in view of the high test positivity rate in the state. On Friday, Kerala reported 34,696 new Covid-19 cases with a TPR of 26.41 per cent after 1,13,375 people were tested. It also reported 93 deaths taking the death toll to 6243. The active caseload also climbed to 4,42,194 in the state. Thiruvananthapuram district topped the list with 4,567 cases followed by Malappuram with 3,997 cases and Ernakulam with 3,855 new infections. Among those infected, 112 are health workers. Though most of the frontline warriors including health workers have been vaccinated, the second bout of infection has raised worries among medical experts. In some areas the second bout of infection is more than 10 per cent, they said. “Experts say the remaining two weeks are critical for the state. So we need extra caution. We have to rise up to the occasion and we will overcome this also,” said the CM adding that in the four worst-affected districts curbs will be strengthened further to reduce the high TPR. The government has also capped the price of essential products and warned strict action against offenders and hoarders. N-95 masks will be priced at ₹22, triple layer surgical mask ₹4, a PPE kit for ₹273, face shield for ₹21 and fingertip pulse oximeter for ₹1500. Earlier the government had capped charges of private hospitals after many cases of fleecing patients were reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-extends-lockdown-till-may-23-amid-continuing-spike-in-covid-19-infections-101621005720017.html
14-05-2021||India||Rajya Sabha committees can’t meet online, Oppn told. Rules stand in the way||The House committees of Parliament will not be able to meet online amid the raging second wave of Covid19 pandemic as the relevant rules have not been amended, a Rajya Sabha communique to Leader of the Opposition Mallikarjun Kharge said on Friday.Nearly all meetings of the standing committees have come to a standstill in the past few weeks as lawmakers are unable to come to Delhi due to the ongoing Covid pandemic. Last week, Kharge appealed to Rajya Sabha chairman Venkaiah Naidu to allow online meetings as many key subjects and issues are pending for discussion.On Friday, the secretariat wrote back saying that the amendments of rules to allow virtual meetings can be taken up only during the next parliament session. “The issue of confidentiality can be resolved during the session as any amendment to the Rules can be approved by the respective Houses only after the matter is considered by the Rules Committees.”The reply, however, also acknowledged that authorities did consider suggestions to amend the rules during the first Covid wave but the move lost momentum.The letter, signed by a joint secretary-rank official in the secretariat, said: “In a similar situation during the first wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, Hon’ble Chairman and Hon’ble Speaker (Om Birla) had decided in a meeting that the mater regarding holding of virtual meetings of the parliamentary committees vis-à-vis existing provisions and confidentiality of the proceedings of the committees may be referred to the committee on Rules in both the Houses.” “As physical meetings of the committees were being held regularly, following the guidelines strictly, the matter rested there and the situation had not arisen for considering the matter by the Rules Committees,” the letter added.The communication also suggested that the chances of the House panels meeting online now amid this pandemic are slim. “The meetings of the committees can be considered shortly once the situation improves for better”.Opposition leaders rejected this position of the secretariat and made a fresh demand for online meetings.“A wasteful new Parliament building is being constructed in the midst of a national catastrophe, and it is considered an “essential service”. But a simple rule cannot be changed to allow virtual meetings of Standing Committees. Come on Speaker Sir, Chairman Garu!,” tweeted Congress chief whip in Rajya Sabha Jairam Ramesh.Several key meetings including those of the Union cabinet and the PM’s meetings on Covid have been held digitally for the past many months. Recently, the entire council of ministers also held an online meeting.Authorities, however, pointed out these meetings can be easily held in different platforms, but Parliament has to amend its rule books to allow any deviation from the usual format of MPs gathering at one of the committee rooms to discuss issues, call witnesses or adopt a report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajya-sabha-committees-can-t-meet-online-oppn-told-rules-stand-in-the-way-101621005665276.html
14-05-2021||India||YSR Congress MP, who asked court to cancel bail to Jagan, arrested for sedition||YSR Congress lawmaker Kanumuri Raghurama Krishnam Raju was arrested in Hyderabad by Andhra Pradesh’s Crime Investigation Department (CID) on Friday on charges of sedition, disturbing communal harmony and attacking dignitaries of the Jagan Mohan Reddy government, the police said in a statement.A police statement issued after his arrest said a preliminary inquiry against the MP “found that through his speeches on regular basis Mr Raju was indulging in systematic, schematic effort to cause tensions among the communities and by attacking various government dignitaries in a way which will cause loss of faith in the government which they represent”.The arrest comes weeks after Kanumuri Raghurama Krishnam Raju, an outspoken critic of his party chief and Andhra Pradesh chief minister YSR Jagan Mohan Reddy over the last year, asked a special CBI special court on April 27 to cancel the bail granted to Jagan Mohan Reddy. He alleged that the chief minister, released on bail in an alleged disproportionate assets case pending since 2012, had been violating the bail conditions. This request is pending before the judge who asked the CBI and Jagan Mohan Reddy to respond to the charge.Raghurama Krishnam Raju, who represents Narasapuram parliamentary constituency in West Godavari district, was in Hyderabad to celebrate his 59th birthday on Friday when a CID police led by R Vijaya Paul, additional superintendent of police, Guntur, arrested him.The Andhra Pradesh CID statement said a case had been registered against the MP under Section 124-A (sedition) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), for alleged comments against the Jagan Mohan Reddy government, damaging its reputation and inciting hatred among the people. The police have also invoked Section 153 (b) (making comments causing communal disharmony or affecting national integration) and Section 505 (making statements with public mischief) against the MP.Raghurama Krishnam Raju’s son K Bharat told reporters that the CID team forcibly took away his father without disclosing any reasons.“They didn’t even tell us where my father is being taken. How can the cops arrest an MP at a time when the coronavirus pandemic is so severe?” he asked.Bharat said he would file a petition in court against his father’s “illegal arrest”.This isn’t the first time that Raju, a well-known industrialist in the West Godavari district, has gone against Jagan Reddy. Raju quit the party in 2014 after he didn’t get a ticket to contest the Lok Sabha general elections and crossed over to the BJP. He exited the BJP in 2018 and switched to the Telugu Desam Party before returning to the YSR Congress in March 2019 in time for the Lok Sabha elections.Raghurama Krishnam Raju was elected to the Lok Sabha but had a falling out with Jagan Mohan Reddy again last year. He was issued a show-cause notice by the party in June 2020. Jagan Mohan Reddy hasn’t suspended him so far but in October last year, it did ask Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla to disqualify him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ysr-congress-mp-raghurama-krishnam-raju-who-asked-court-to-cancel-bail-to-jagan-arrested-for-sedition-101621003319746.html
14-05-2021||India||‘Enact special law to uphold dignity of dead’: NHRC to Centre, states on Covid-19 victims||With disturbing reports of mishandling of Covid-19 bodies emerging from across the country, the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) on Friday recommended that the government should enact a special legislation to uphold the dignity and protect the right of the dead.It has also recommended that there should not be mass burials/cremations or piling up of bodies during the transportation as it is in violation of the right to dignity of the dead.The apex human rights body sent a detailed advisory to the ministry of home affairs, ministry of health and family welfare and states/union territories in this regard. HT has reviewed the advisory.Asserting that Article 21 of the Constitution extends not only to living persons but also to the dead, the Commission said, “it is the duty of the State to protect the rights of the deceased and prevent crime over the dead body”.Although there is no specific law in India for protecting the rights of the dead, NHRC has pointed out that there are several international covenants, Supreme Court and high court judgements as well as guidelines issued by various governments from time to time emphasizing on maintaining Covid-19 protocol and giving decent burial/cremation according to respective religious customs and practices.The advisory asked authorities to urgently set-up temporary crematoriums in view of the large number of Covid-19 deaths and long queues seen at crematoriums.It said that use of electric crematoriums may be encouraged in order to avoid the health hazards emerging from the emission of smoke from burning pyres in large number; piling up of bodies during transportation or at any other place must not be allowed to happen and mass burial/cremation should not be allowed to take place as it is in violation of the right to dignity of the dead.“In order to ensure that dignity is upheld during handling of bodies, the cremation/burial ground staff must be sensitized about proper handling of the body. Further, they need to be provided necessary safety equipment and facilities so that they may perform their duty efficiently without any fear or risk,” the advisory said.It said the religious rituals that do not require touching of the body may be allowed such as reading from religious scripts, sprinkling holy water, etc, and in cases where the family members are not in a position to perform last rites as they themselves may be infected or are not willing for fear of getting infected, the state/local administration may perform the last rites of the body, taking into account the religious/cultural factors.As of May 13, there were over 2.62 lakh deaths in the country due to the pandemic.Not specific to Covid-19 victims, the human rights agency asked the Centre and states to maintain a district-wise digital dataset of (all) death cases for which it suggested that a dynamic web portal must be created.It also said that digital confirmation of all – Covid-19 or non-Covid19 deaths must be simultaneously updated in all documents such as bank account, Aadhar Card, insurance etc., wherever applicable, to prohibit the scope of any impersonation or illegal monetary transaction.The NHRC further recommended that accurate identification of the body must be done by using different criteria for identification and the state authorities must ensure proper handling of the information about the dead and missing persons in disasters.It said overcharging by ambulances must be regulated and staff handling such bodies must be fairly paid.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/enact-special-law-to-uphold-dignity-of-dead-nhrc-to-centre-states-on-covid-19-victims-101620999659559.html
14-05-2021||India||Goa's crematoriums witness rush as Covid-19 cases rise||Even as hospitals in Goa see a surge in Covid-19 cases, the scenes at crematoriums in the coastal state are equally grim, as bodies continue to line up for last rites.One of the oldest crematoriums in Goa located in Margao city had to construct four additional platforms and dedicate three of its existing ones to cater to people who died of Covid-19.The century-old crematorium, managed by Mathagramasth Hindu Sabha, opened its doors to deceased Covid-19 patients after it was found that they were not being entertained by other facilities."We opened our doors to cremate people who died due to Covid-19, as we realised that they were not being taken in by others. This was in June last year when the first death was reported," the president of the facility, Bhai Naik told PTI.The institution is open to cremating deceased Covid-19 patients from all religions, he said.Last rites of deceased patients are performed between 5 pm to 6 pm every day, Naik said."You will see people queuing up with bodies for final rites. The scene is grim," he said.Considering the rush, the civic-run crematorium at St Inez in Panaji has roped in additional resources.An official in charge of this facility said the burden has increased manifold, but there is no other option."We can't send the bodies back. We conduct the final rites after observing all the necessary standard operating procedures," he said.The Corporation of City of Panaji (CCP) on Friday announced that it will waive of additional charges on providing hearse van services to relatives of patients who died of Covid-19 at the Goa Medical College and Hospital.CCP Mayor Rohit Monserratte said ₹100 would be charged for providing No Objection Certificates and ₹500 for ferrying bodies by hearse vans.The facility will be available only for residents of Panaji, he added.As on Thursday, the Covid-19 caseload in Goa was at 1,30,130 and the toll reached 1,937.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goas-crematoriums-witness-rush-as-covid-19-cases-rise-101620997761981.html
14-05-2021||India||Ghazipur administration steps in to offer financial assistance to kin of deceased for cremation||Bihar police on Friday urged the people of Ghazipur not to immerse the mortal remains of the deceased in river Ganga and instead perform their last rites in a dignified manner, and added that those who cannot afford to bear the expenses of cremation must seek the help of the district administration. Police also asked the local residents to remain vigilant and report incidents of outsiders doing so, reported news agency ANI."Please do not perform water burial of bodies into Ganga river, but cremate them. If any person is unable to bear expenses of cremation, please inform us. We will make arrangements." cops announced to locals on a loudspeaker.Ghazipur administration capped the price of firewood at ₹650 per quintal and fixed the amount crematorium workers can charge the kin of the deceased at Rs. 500, adding that those who are unable to bear the expenses will be given a financial assistance of ₹5,000. Control rooms will be set up at crematoriums for police personnel and government clerks will be monitoring the situation.“Ghazipur administration has capped the price of firewood at ₹650/quintal and crematorium workers will not take more than ₹500 for cremating a body. We're setting up a control room at each crematorium where police personnel and lekhpal would be stationed,” said Ghazipur district magistrate MP Singh.“If any person is unable to bear expenses of cremation (of the body of their relative/family member) and goes to any crematorium, we will provide them with ₹5000 immediately and bear all expenses of cremation,” he added.As India faces a deluge of Covid-19 fatalities it led to an artificial increase in the price of firewood across the country. In Uttar Pradesh, firewood for the cremation cost twice the market rate, Reuters reported on Friday.Scores of dead bodies were fished out from the Ganga in Uttar Pradesh’s Ghazipur and Balia districts, and in Bihar’s Buxar. It is not known for sure if the deaths are due to Covid-19 since the bodies are too decomposed for RT-PCR tests. Locals of Buksar village, told Hindustan Times that those who cannot afford to cremate their dead bury them in the shallow banks of Ganga, and these burials have spiked since the panchayat elections in UP ended.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ghazipur-administration-steps-in-to-offer-financial-assistance-to-kin-of-deceased-for-cremation-101620996288819.html
14-05-2021||India||Centres under Digital India registered barely 170,000 for vaccination in May||A little over 170,000 citizens booked Covid-19 vaccine appointments from May 1-10 through Common Service Centres (CSCs), set up under the Digital India scheme to provide last mile access of internet services to people in rural and remote areas without smartphones. According to the official data accessed by HT, 90% of these are at the panchayat level. The numbers are low considering the CSCs provide access to digital services to 400,000-500,000 people on a daily basis, an official familiar with the matter said. Moreover, just a little over 500 million people in the country have access to smartphones. “The numbers are low because appointments slots are not available and, in many cases, centres are shut due to a lockdown in the state,” the official mentioned above said. “Barely 60,000 centres are functional at the moment.”According to the data, the highest number of appointments were made in Maharashtra, 23,699, followed by 18,244 in Bihar, 16,781 in Uttar Pradesh, 15,837 in Odisha, 14,666 in West Bengal and 10,722 in Rajasthan.There are 400,000 operational CSCs across the country, of which 250,000 are present at the panchayat level. In March alone in Uttar Pradesh, CSCs across the state collected over ₹1,000 crore in form of electricity payments alone. Last year, during the lockdown, over ₹10,000 crore was withdrawn from the CSCs across the country.Also Read | Jharkhand CM launches free vaccination drive for people aged 18-44 yrsNational Health Authority chief RS Sharma said that CoWIN, the government’s portal for vaccination registration, has been integrated with the CSCs to allow them to register people. “Most of these centres are located in rural areas and are helping provide services in terms of registration and appointment for vaccination,” he said.However, the trends on CoWIN also show a sharp decline in the number of registrations. From 13,283,056 on April 28, registrations dropped to 3,125,700 on May 12. The government has faced criticism from several sections for being unable to provide equitable access to vaccination, with 12 Opposition parties writing to the Prime Minister on April 12 to ensure vaccination for everyone. According to development economist and IIT professor Reetika Khera, most of the vaccine slots are being taken up by urban people. “Even in urban areas, slots are hard to get,” Khera said. “De facto, online registration has become a way to ‘manage’ vaccine shortage, by funneling them to the vocal urban tech-savvy population. Even if we quadruple the number of bookings per the CSC data, since one phone number can be used to register four people, barely 800,000 will have got a slot.” She added that Chhattisgarh was one of the few states trying to bypass the digital divide and enable access to vaccination for all. “According to national sample survey data 2017, internet facilities can be accessed by only 17% rural areas and 42% in urban areas. This creates a divide that by default puts a large part of the population at a disadvantage,” Khera said.Human rights activist Usha Ramanathan said that CoWIN and Aarogya Setu are privileging vaccination. “If the purpose of the whole exercise is that everyone gets access to vaccination, then this shouldn’t be the system. It seems it wasn’t about vaccination at all but asking people to come report to them.” She said that the disconnect between reporting to the system and not getting access to the service is something we have seen over the last few years. “For people who don’t have phones, it’s not just CSCs, four people can register from one phone number. This idea of nominating a person and conduct through a mobile phone has become the norm. It’s become a very strange space where one must have a smartphone, one must know how to use it and then you may be able to find time for a vaccination slot. This, in a country where a majority doesn’t understand how to use mobile phones, does not work.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centres-under-digital-india-registered-barely-170-000-for-vaccination-in-may-101620996539555.html
14-05-2021||India||Kerala CM Vijayan announces extension of statewide Covid-19 lockdown by a week till May 23||The Kerala government on Friday extended the ongoing Covid-19 lockdown in the state by a week to May 23, due to the increasing number of infections of the coronavirus disease. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan announced the decision mentioning that strict restrictions are necessary to curb the transmission of the disease in the state.“Lockdown is extended till 23 May. Triple lockdown in Thiruvananthapuram, Ernakulam, Thrissur, Malappuram. Free food kits in June too. ₹823.23Cr will be distributed as Welfare Pensions in May. Financial assistance of ₹1,000 for all members of Welfare Boards,” CM Vijayan tweeted on Monday.Lockdown is extended till 23 May.Triple lockdown in Thiruvananthapuram, Ernakulam, Thrissur, Malappuram.Free food kits in June too. ₹823.23Cr will be distributed as Welfare Pensions in May.Financial assistance of ₹1,000 for all members of Welfare Boards.In a subsequent tweet, the CM also announced that the Kerala Essential Articles Control Act, 1986, is being invoked "to control the prices of articles required for treating Covid-19," listing the commodity and their prices.Kerala Essential Articles Control Act, 1986 is being invoked to control prices of articles required for treating #COVID19.PPE Kits ₹273N95 Mask ₹22Triple Layer Mask ₹3.90Face Shield ₹21Disposable Apron ₹12Surgical Gown ₹65Inspection Gloves ₹5.75Talking to reporters, Vijayan also said that a triple-lockdown has been implemented in the worst affected districts in the state, namely, Thiruvananthapuram, Ernakulam, Thrissur and Malappuram.Earlier on May 6, the state government announced an eight-day lockdown beginning from May 8 effective till May 16. This has now been extended till May 23 due to the rising number of cases.Meanwhile, services which were exempted under the current lockdown will continue to remain exempted during the extended period too.The chief minister’s announcement came on a day when Kerala reported 34,694 new cases of Covid-19 and 93 related fatalities on the day, taking the state’s cases tally to 2,085,583 and death toll to 6,243, a bulletin from the state health department showed. There are 442,194 active cases of the disease as on date, the bulletin also showed. Meanwhile, 31,319 patients recovered on the day which pushed the overall recoveries to 1,636,790.Also read | India's Covid-19 tally crosses 24 million-mark with 343,144 fresh casesThiruvananthapuram (4,567 new cases), Ernakulam (3,855 new cases), Malappuram (3,997 new cases) and Thrissur (3,162 new cases), where the triple lockdown has been implemented, remained the top contributors to the state’s daily tally on Monday. In terms of active cases, Ernakulam with 69,180 active cases, Thrissur with 56,194 active cases and Malappuram with 50,778 active cases remained the worst affected.During the announcement, Vijayan also said that the second dose of the Covishield Covid-19 vaccine will be given to beneficiaries only after completing 84 days (12 weeks) from the first dose, in line with the central government’s latest directive, news agency ANI reported. He also mentioned that no changes have been made to the interval between the first and second doses of Covaxin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-cm-vijayan-announces-extension-of-statewide-covid-19-lockdown-by-a-week-till-may-23-101620996300651.html
14-05-2021||India||Kerala HC directs Centre to set timeline for supply of vaccines to state||The Kerala High Court on Friday directed the Centre to inform when Covid-19 vaccines needed for the state could be supplied and also set a time-frame for it. Hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) questioning the manufacturing policy, transfer of technology, patent and supply of Covid-19 vaccines, the court expressed concern over the long wait to get jabs. “Give a time-frame within which vaccines can be supplied to the state. If you delay the whole thing, new mutations will come up and people will die. Give a timeline, so we will get a picture,” a bench of Justices Raja Vijayaraghavan and M R Anitha observed. The petitioner (Dr K P Aravindan) contended that there are at least 19 other vaccine manufacturers in the country and if the Centre agrees to transfer technology they can start manufacturing and many lives could be saved. He also questioned the different pricing of vaccines and said authorities should publish information regarding the intellectual property rights of vaccines for the knowledge of the people. He also argued that there is a violation of Article 14 of the Constitution (right to equality) which resulted in creating two classes in the vaccination policy, one price for the Union government and another for the state. He also said that the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and the Centre own intellectual property rights of Covaxin. This can be transferred to other manufacturers to increase the production. He said it is possible to incorporate the required bio-safety levels into manufacturing units in a short span of time. At this point, the court observed that the Covid-19 situation in the state was really serious and at the present pace of vaccination it would take a minimum of two years for the whole state to be vaccinated. The lawyer appearing for the Union government said many intricacies were involved in such issues and sought time to file a detailed reply. The court agreed and the PIL will be heard again next Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-hc-directs-centre-to-set-timeline-for-supply-of-vaccines-to-state-101620996359297.html
14-05-2021||India||Pandemic has led to rise in poverty, inequality; don’t be complacent: JNU prof||As India battles the second wave of Covid-19 infections, questions about the pandemic’s economic impact have gained salience. Last year, in order to curb the spread of the pandemic, a 68-day long strict lockdown was imposed on March 25, 2020 — this led to the most severe GDP contraction in post independence-India. This year, while there is no national lockdown, a large number of states have imposed mobility restrictions and economic activity has taken a hit.To understand the possible impact of the pandemic’s second wave on the Indian economy, HT spoke to Himanshu, an associate professor of economics at Jawaharlal Nehru University. Excerpts:The second wave of Covid-19 is far more severe than the first one. There is a view among many economists and institutions that its economic impact will not be as bad as the first one. What do you think? It depends on where you are looking at the economy from. We had a very severe impact last year itself. So obviously compared to last year, the growth rate will not be so bad. But if you compare to 2019-20, we are in a situation where our economy will not recover, in terms of per capita income even to 2019-20 levels. The optimism that you see is based on the fact that we had a contraction of around 8.5%-9% last year, so a similar level of contraction is not possible. But it is a false optimism.Our aggregate GDP numbers are not reflecting the level of stress we are dealing with in the economy, whether in terms of health expenditure, normal expenditure of households or distress in rural areas. But there are pressure points, pain points which are very much visible.Also Read | Jharkhand CM launches free vaccination drive for people aged 18-44 yrsAny complacency on that front can be far more disastrous than the complacency which led us to believe that we have conquered the pandemic. Policymakers should be far more cautious than they are appearing that this time.If GDP numbers do not capture the real pain in the economy, what are the numbers we should we looking at? Let us take the GDP numbers first. If we have an 8.5%-9% contraction in 2020-21, which is what is expected, you need at least a 9.5% growth this year to bring per capita income levels to 2019-20 levels, because our population would have increased. We are certainly going below 9.5%.Everybody has started a downward revision of GDP projections and I think this process (of downward revision) will continue. Even these are overestimates, because we still do not have full data for 2020-21. For example, for non-banking financial companies, we still have data until September-October 2020. Once these numbers come in, we will see some kind of sharp downward revision in 2020-21 GDP estimates. This is a trend (downward revisions in GDP numbers) which has been seen in the last four-five years.What we are missing out is that wage recovery has still not happened. If you compare real wages in both agriculture and non-agriculture, real wages in March 2021 (latest available data) are still lower than March 2019 levels. That is the reality we are talking about. Even private surveys such as the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE) show that employment has not recovered to pre-pandemic levels.In 2017-18, we had the last consumption expenditure survey (CES). But it was junked by the government. That (CES) data itself showed that poverty levels had gone up. After that, we have only gone backwards. Level of misery has increased. I think there are pressure points which are very much visible.As far as inflation numbers are concerned, and I have been pointing this out for some time, we are still not out of the woods. We need to be looking at it much more carefully. So, I think we are in a much more precarious situation than we were in April 2020. In April 2020, whatever you say, the economy was slowing down, but we still had positive growth. Today, the economy is not in a position to take two back-to-back years of stress.Last year, the rural economy provided an important cushion to aggregate demand. The pandemic has proliferated in rural areas in a big way. The terms of trade have moved against farmers due to increase in prices of diesel, fertilisers etc. Can we take rural demand for granted going forward? This is precisely the point I was talking about. The last time we were in a similar situation vis-a-vis the rural economy was in 2011-12. Even though food prices were increasing at a sharp pace, because input prices started rising at a faster pace, by 2013-14, agricultural incomes had collapsed. This is something the NITI Aayog has also pointed out.We are now seeing a situation now where demand has already contracted due to the pandemic’s distress. The ability of the government to pump-prime the rural economy through massive stimulus is also curtailed. And now, we have rising input prices. Last year, even though the benefit of fall in petroleum prices was not passed on to consumers, fertiliser and diesel prices did not go up. Since January 2021, there has been a massive increase in petroleum prices. Complex fertiliser prices have already gone up. Experience tells us that urea prices will also follow the same trend. Already fertiliser consumption has declined as per the daily tracker that we have from the Fertiliser Association of India data.Also Read | Uttar Pradesh reports 15,747 new Covid-19 cases, tally goes past 1.59 millionWe also need to remember the pandemic has led to a sharp increase in out-of-pocket health expenditure for a lot of households. Most of the rural households will start with a net debt, and the bulk of it will be from non-institutional sources at very high interest rates.I think rural areas are no longer being seen as something which will lead a recovery in the economy. The question is whether the urban sector can now pull-up the rest of the economy? My own understanding is that is not the case.The April Consumer Price Index (CPI) numbers show a 3% contraction in cereal prices. The government is claiming that it has done record procurement. What explains this trend?Remember that because of the lockdown we did not have proper inflation data in April 2020. What we had were imputed numbers. So that is one factor. But we also have to look at what is happening to international food prices. The Food and Agricultural Organisation’s (FAO) food price index shows a similar trend for cereal prices. But at some point, cereal prices will start firming up. As of now, disinflation in cereal prices is a result of demand deflation, but international factors are also playing a role. But we should not get complacent about it. Food inflation can go up.We do not have a Consumption Expenditure Survey after 2011-12. This means our GDP and CPI series etc. have not been updated. How bad is it from a policymaking perspective, in your view, to be dealing with the biggest ever economic disruption with a set of obsolete statistical database? The fact that most of the data is faulty led to a sense of complacency as far as the government’s response to the pandemic is concerned. The fact that data is not available makes it difficult to even formulate policy. We are not going to come out of this situation. The problem of lack of data is not going to be taken care of in the next year or so. The situation is so bleak because the government has stopped releasing data. A good example is the Situation Assessment Survey of farmers which was completed in 2019 but has still not been released. We are creating a feel-good situation, but the reality cannot be hidden. Just as dead bodies cannot be hidden even if you try and hide the number of infections and cases.Last year’s recovery was seen as profit-led rather than wage-led, where companies squeezed labour costs to maintain profits even though revenues fell. Is this sustainable anymore? No. You must also take into account that the profit-led recovery was also aided by the corporate tax cut in September 2019. So, profits had a god run for last two years. Whatever cost reduction could have been achieved with cutting employee costs has already been reached. With rising commodity prices (which will affect costs) this channel of profit-led growth is not feasible. It is just a matter of time before the chain breaks.There is a legitimate concern about rise in poverty due to the pandemic. What about its impact on the non-poor? They have a disproportionate importance in driving India’s consumption story. Overall, the pandemic has led to an increase in poverty. We might not have the official numbers about increase in poverty, but at least, nobody disagrees on that fact that poverty has increased. Similarly, the impact on inequality is also very clear. That in a way is coming from the nature of recovery. What is not documented is that a large number of middle class, regular employees have moved to the ranks of self-employed workers. Their incomes have declined. There is a shrinking which is happening in the middle (class).Also Read | From UP, a tale of the failure of the Indian stateIncome inequality is going to increase across all dimensions. This is not going to be a one-off impact. It will feed into inter-generational inequality. Access to education itself is determined by what kind of resources you have. A lot of students are falling behind on this count. The effects of this will show five or ten years down the line.What will suffer because of rise in inequality is not essential spending, but discretionary spending. Discretionary spending is what drives economic growth in the long run. It will create a vicious spiral of further generation of inequality.There is a view that the economy bottomed out in 2020-21. We have heard this logic earlier too. Are you saying that the pandemic’s impact could be structural rather than cyclical shock on India’s growth prospects? It is precisely the point that I am talking about. We had these structural factors building up, because the nature of demand itself was skewed in favour of a certain section of the population and their ability to drive the economy was limited.Those structural factors have been widened by the pandemic. We are in a situation where if we do not correct these structural bottlenecks, then we can forget about getting into a sustainable growth rate of 7% GDP growth. Unless of course, there is a big export boost. We should be worried about the policy response to these structural challenges, and if we do not do this, then any recovery might not be sustainable.Also Read | In its hour of need, Quad members stand with IndiaI do not think our policymakers are even thinking about these issues at the moment. We are just hoping against hope that anything that comes down has to go up. We are in a situation where the ship itself is sinking unless the loopholes are plugged in.Going forward, what do you think needs to be done? I can list three things.One, there here has to be a change in the policy paradigm. It is no longer a cyclical shock. It is something which has basically raised questions on the way the economy is structured. Those questions can no longer be avoided. For the last 30 years, most governments have basically tried to push the more difficult questions to subsequent governments and take easy decisions themselves and claim credit for reforms. We have to rethink where the economy is going. That will require an understanding of from where the revenue is to be generated, where demand will come from, what is the role of fiscal policy or inflation management etc. I am talking about broader questions. Many of us do not have the answers, but we have to start talking about these questions.Two, states have to be given their due share, and not just their due share in Goods and Services Tax but also the flexibility of taking their decisions to revive the economy. I think unlike the current centralised approach, a federal approach is needed.Third, the government should pump a lot of money in the economy, whether it is in rural or urban areas. Right now, the economy is in an ICU.Should we forget about the fiscal deficit at the moment? Forget about the fiscal deficit. I really think that monetary policy and fiscal policy do not have a contradiction as long as the objectives are not very clear. The problem with this government is its objectives are not very clear. And if that happens, then fiscal policy will keep on blaming monetary policy and monetary policy will keep on blaming fiscal policy.The objective should be ramp up income, create demand in the domestic economy and provide protection to large majority of the population. These sections will drive our growth in the next decade or the decade after that. We cannot simply hold the assumption that private corporate sector profits are going to drive the economy. That understanding has to change.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pandemic-has-led-to-rise-in-poverty-inequality-don-t-be-complacent-jnuprof-101620996059540.html
14-05-2021||India||Tauktae likely to be a very severe cyclonic storm: IMD||Tauktae, once formed, is likely to intensify into a ‘very severe cyclonic storm’ with wind speed of 150 to 160 kmph gusting to 175 kmph on May 17, according to the latest forecast by the India Meteorological Department (IMD).The depression over Lakshadweep area has moved north-north-eastwards with a speed of about 19 kmph and is now centred over Lakshadweep about 30 km south southwest of Amini Divi, 320 km west-southwest of Kannur (Kerala), 1120 km south southeast of Veraval (Gujarat) at about 11.30 am on May 14.It is very likely to intensify into a cyclonic storm during the next 24 hours and is also expected to intensify further during the subsequent 24 hours. Tauktae is likely to move north north-eastwards initially for some more time and then move north-north westwards and reach the Gujarat coast by May 18 morning.ALSO READ | ‘Tauktae’ likely to be an intense cyclone as oceanic conditions favourable, warn scientistsThere is no consensus among models yet on whether the very severe cyclonic storm will cross the Gujarat coast. “As on today we cannot say very clearly if it will cross the Gujarat coast. But the probability of crossing the coast cannot be ruled out. It may skirt the coast early on May 18. Because it’s a large system, it will bring a lot of heavy and extremely heavy rainfall in its path. It is also an intense system,” said Sunitha Devi, in charge, cyclones at IMD.Most cyclones develop in the Arabian Sea during May end and early June. “Vayu was a very severe cyclonic storm which formed over Arabian Sea in early June in 2019. The 1998 Gujarat cyclone also formed in early June. So, while cyclone formation in May in the Arabian Sea is rare, it often happens when monsoon sets in,” added Sunitha.According to “Assessment of Climate Change over the Indian Region,” a report released by the Union ministry of earth sciences last year, observations indicate that frequency of extremely severe cyclonic storms (ESCS) over the Arabian Sea has increased during the post-monsoon seasons of 1998–2018. Most models are projecting a higher sea surface warming in the Arabian Sea than the Bay of Bengal.ALSO READ | Cyclone Tauktae: NDRF teams deployed in five states“The frequency and intensity of cyclones in the Arabian Sea have increased in recent years. This is because of the rapid warming that has made the relatively cooler Arabian Sea (compared to the Bay of Bengal) a warm pool region that can actively support cyclone formation. Climate projections indicate that Arabian Sea will continue warming under increased carbon emissions, resulting in more intense cyclones in the future,” explained Roxy Mathew Koll, a climate scientist at the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology.“Ocean warming has made some new challenges also. Cyclones are now intensifying rapidly since warm ocean waters act as fuel for them. Extremely severe cyclones like Fani and Amphan intensified from a weak to severe status in less than 24 hours due to warm ocean conditions. That gives us less time to be prepared. State-of-the-art cyclone models are unable to pick this rapid intensification because they do not incorporate the ocean dynamics accurately,” he added.Light to moderate rain with extremely heavy rain (over 20 cm) is likely over Lakshadweep on May 13 and 14; over Kerala on May 13; over ghat areas of Tamil Nadu and Karnataka on May 15. It is likely to rain on May 13, 14, 15, 16 and 17 in all these places, the IMD said.In Konkan and Goa, light to moderate rainfall at many places with heavy rainfall at isolated places is very likely on May 15 and heavy to very heavy rainfall at a few places on May 16 and 17. In Gujarat, rainfall activity is very likely to begin from May 17 with a significant increase during the subsequent 2 days and heavy to very heavy rainfall at a few places over Saurashtra and Kutch on May 18 and 19.The major impact from the cyclone is expected over southeast, east-central and northeast Arabian Sea, Lakshadweep – Maldives area and Lakshadweep Islands and along and off Kerala, Karnataka, Goa, Maharashtra, Gujarat coasts. In these areas, very rough to high seas, squally weather and gales around the system centre will affect shipping vessels and fishing operations; inundation of low lying areas of the islands of Lakshadweep during May 14 to 16; very heavy to extremely heavy rainfall causing flash floods and landslides over the coastal districts of Kerala, Karnataka and Goa during May 14 to 16 and Saurashtra, Kutch during May 18; Thunder squalls and lightning could cause adverse impact on human settlements and livestock as well as damage to loose and unsecured structures along the coast line.Fishermen have been advised not to venture into the Arabian Sea during May 14 to 18. Ships too have been advised to avoid the area; ports along the west coast of India may take necessary precautions; naval base operations may maintain necessary precautions; tourism activities may be restricted over the area specified for squally weather and rough sea warning.Conditions are extremely favourable for the rapid intensification of Tauktae. “Ocean heat potential is above normal; sea surface temperatures are 1-2 degree C above normal and the Madden Julian Oscillation (MJO) is also favouring rapid intensification. We should be prepared,” Sunitha Devi had said on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tauktae-likely-to-be-a-very-severe-cyclonic-storm-imd-101620994259463.html
14-05-2021||India||Body of Kerala native Soumya Santhosh to be repatriated from Israel to India today||Union minister of state for external affairs V Muraleedharan said on Friday that mortal remains of Soumya Santhosh, an Indian national from Kerala, who lost her life in the ongoing conflict between Israel and the Palestine-based Hamas, are being repatriated to India today.Also Read | Body of Kerala nurse killed in rocket attack on Israel, to be brought home soon: CM Vijayan"The mortal remains of Ms Soumya Santhosh, who was killed in rocket attacks from Gaza, are being repatriated today from Israel to Kerala through Delhi. They will reach her native place tomorrow," Muraleedharan tweeted, adding that he will personally receive Santhosh's remains in Delhi.The mortal remains of Ms Soumya Santhosh, who was killed in rocket attacks from Gaza, are being repatriated today from Israel to Kerala through Delhi. They will reach her native place tomorrow. I will personally be receiving the remains in Delhi. May her soul rest in peace.Earlier this week, Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that the state government was in touch with the external affairs ministry and the embassy of Israel in Delhi to bring back the body of the 32-year-old Santhosh, who was working as a caregiver in Israel for the last seven years. A native of Idukki, she lost her life on Tuesday when the building she was residing in, in the Israeli city of Ashkelon, was hit by a rocket fired by Hamas. She was on a video call with her husband when her building was hit by the rocket.Also Read | 'Nothing can compensate for the loss': Israel official offers help to family of Kerala woman killed in rocket attackIsrael's deputy chief of mission to India, Rony Yedidia Clein, on Thursday told news agency ANI that Israeli authorities will take care of Santhosh's family, which includes her nine-year-old son. Ron Malka, the country's ambassador to India, too, reached out to her family, extending his condolences to her near and dear ones. Malka also drew a parallel between Santhosh's son and Moshe, an Israeli teenager who lost his parents as a toddler in Mumbai during the November 26, 2008 terror attacks in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/body-of-kerala-native-soumya-santhosh-to-be-repatriated-from-israel-to-india-today-101620990535198.html
14-05-2021||India||India has administered nearly 180mn Covid vaccine doses till now||India had administered nearly 180 million coronavirus vaccine doses by Thursday, May 13. The government also said those who have taken the first dose of Covishield should wait for 12-16 weeks before taking the second shot, even as it assured that the country would get over 2 billion vaccine shots by December.Meanwhile, by Thursday 8pm, 179,177,029 vaccine doses had been given in India. This includes 9,616,697 healthcare workers who have had their first dose and 6,602,553 who have got their second dose as well. As many as 14,314,563 frontline workers have had their first dose while 8,112,476 have got their second dose too.Also Read | Delhi Police team questions Youth Congress chief over Covid-19 assistanceIn the 45-59-year age group, 56,582,401 people have got their first dose and another 8,514,552 have had their second dose as well. In the 60+ category, 54,232,598 people have been administered their first dose while 17,286,501 have had their second dose as well.In the newly added category of 18-44 year age group, 437,192 beneficiaries received their first dose of Covid vaccine on Thursday and cumulatively, 3,914,688 of this age group have been vaccinated across 32 states and Union Territories.As many as 1,975,176 vaccine doses were given by the evening. Of this, 1,010,856 beneficiaries were vaccinated with the first dose and 964,320 beneficiaries received their second dose as well.On Friday, Dr Reddy’s, the Hyderabad-based pharmaceutical company, announced the soft launch of Sputnik V vaccine, adding that it would cost ₹995.40 per shot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-has-administered-nearly-180mn-covid-vaccine-doses-till-now-101620991799116.html
14-05-2021||India||Delhi Police team questions Youth Congress chief over Covid-19 assistance||A team of Delhi Police (crime branch) visited the Indian Youth Congress (IYC) office on Friday. IYC chief Srinivas BV told reporters that the police team wanted to know how the Youth Congress is helping people battle the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), adding that their questions were answered by the IYC."They (the Delhi Police team) wanted to know the details of how we are helping people. We answered all their questions," Srinivas told ANI.Congress spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala criticised the Delhi Police asking if helping those in need “is a crime”.“Sending Delhi Police to stop Youth Congress and its chief Sirinvas from helping Covid-19 patients is the dreaded face of the Modi government,” Surjewala tweeted.“We will not be scared off, nor will our spirit be broken by such disgusting revenge action. The service will be determined and determined,” he added.The Delhi police has said that this is a part of the enquiry they are conducting under a high court order. Before talking to Srinivas, police had also taken the statements of Aam Aadmi Party MLA Dilip Pandey, Bharatiya Janata Party’s Delhi leader and spokesperson Harish Khurana and former Congress MLA Mukesh Sharma, as a part of the court-ordered enquiry, though no FIR has been lodged against anyone till date.The Delhi high court had on May 4 had ordered police to examine the instances of politicians in the national capital region allegedly procuring and distributing Remdesivir injections, used in treatment of Covid-19 patients, and take steps for lodging of FIR in case of any offence. An individual named Deepak Singh had filed a writ plea seeking probe against politicians for allegedly hoarding and black marketing of essential medicines used in treating Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-police-team-questions-youth-congress-chief-over-covid-19-assistance-101620991092312.html
14-05-2021||India||News updates from HT: 13 dead as oxygen levels drop in Goa medical college and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Oxygen levels drop again at Goa medical college; 13 patients deadOxygen levels at the Goa Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) fluctuated yet again on the intervening night of Thursday and Friday, reportedly causing another 13 deaths. Read more'Met him for 1st time in 2015, always try to talk to him': Bumrah names bowler who played 'major role' in learning curveJasprit Bumrah has gained his place as one of the best fast-bowlers in cricket (if not the best) with impeccable performances in the last 5 years. Read moreAnkita Lokhande teases her wedding plans with Vicky Jain: 'I am super excited about my marriage'Actor Ankita Lokhande has revealed that she is contemplating tying the knot with boyfriend Vicky Jain. The actor has been dating the businessman for three years, and they celebrated their anniversary last month. Read moreBattlegrounds Mobile India pre-registrations to go live on May 18Krafton today announced a new update on the launch of Battlegrounds Mobile India. Pre-registrations for Battlegrounds Mobile India will go live on May 18 in India. It will be available only for Android users who can pre-register the game via the Google Play Store. Read moreSania Mirza twins with son Izhaan in royal green outfit, wishes fans Eid MubarakThe sports star who also makes headlines for her stunning style sense, opted to twin with her adorable little munchkin on the occasion of Eid in a royal green attire and we think that it was the best decision. Read more‘India running Ram Bharosey’: Sanjay Raut’s jibe at PM Modi over Covid crisisShiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut took a jibe at Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his ministers over the current Covid crisis in the country. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-13-dead-as-oxygen-levels-drop-in-goa-medical-college-and-all-the-latest-news-101620990694690.html
14-05-2021||India||2 killed in grenade blast at Digboi; 2nd incident in a week||Two persons were killed and two others sustained injuries in a grenade blast at a market in Digboi of Tinsukia district of Assam on Friday. According to district officials, the incident took place around 1pm when two men on a motorcycle allegedly lobbed a grenade into a hardware shop at Tingrai Bazaar area.“The incident has claimed the lives of Sanjit Singh and Surajit Talukdar while two others Monjit Das and Ghanashyam Agarwala are injured. Our investigations are on,” said Nimbalkar Vaibhav, the district superintendent of police.Also Read | Bengal Guv Dhankhar to visit Assam to meet post-poll violence hit peopleWhile Singh was a customer at the shop, Surajit Talukdar was an employee at the store. The two injured have been shifted to hospital where they are undergoing treatment. “I have instructed the deputy inspector general (DIG) of police of the range to conduct an investigation and bring those responsible for this incident to book,” Chief Minister Himata Biswa Sarma said in Guwahati. He later tweeted that the union home minister Amit Shah had phoned him and inquired about the incident.Friday’s incident comes three days after a 12-year-old boy was killed when a grenade, which he found lying on the roadside, went off in Kotha Adarsha Gaon in Tinsukia district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/grenade-blast-in-assam-s-tinsukia-leaves-one-dead-2-injured-101620990779136.html
14-05-2021||India||India’s Covid-19 crisis pushes up the cost of living and dying||Ashok Khondare, a 39-year-old vegetable seller in the western Indian city of Pune, had already borrowed money to pay for his sister's treatment when she died in a private hospital two weeks after contacting Covid-19.While trying to overcome the tragedy, he also had to deal with money problems that increased with his sister's death.The only available hearse driver charged 5,000 Indian rupees ($68) for a 6-km (four-mile) journey to the nearest crematorium – five times the going rate. When Khondare reached there, there was a long queue of dead bodies and waits of more than a day. He agreed to pay another 7,000 rupees to jump the queue."I had been experiencing a terrible situation for a fortnight," he said. "I couldn't sleep or eat properly. I wanted to end this as early as possible and didn't mind paying an irrational amount."India’s second wave of the coronavirus has not only created shortages of oxygen, medicines and hospital beds, but also of wood for funeral pyres, hearses and crematorium slots, forcing people like Khondare to pay exorbitant amounts to perform the last rites of loved ones.India is reporting by far the highest number of new daily cases globally, and over 4,000 deaths per day – figures that are almost certainly under-reported, according to experts.India’s Hindu majority cremates its dead, and the huge numbers of deaths are creating backlogs at cremation grounds and shortages of manpower and raw materials."There is huge demand for firewood used for funeral pyres at crematoria, but supplies are not sufficient," said Rohit Pardeshi, a firewood merchant in Satara, a city in the western Indian state of Maharashtra.Due to a local lockdown designed to curb the pandemic, there is a shortage of people to cut trees and those workers who are available are asking for higher wages."This has created a shortage of firewood and lifted prices," Pardeshi said.Retail prices for firewood are up by at least 30 percent, and have more than doubled in some areas, said a second firewood seller in the same city.In the north Indian state of Uttar Pradesh, 24-year-old Mukul Chaudhary faced similar problems after his mother died in the state capital Lucknow.The ambulance driver who dropped his mother off at the hospital for 5,000 rupees charged even more to take her body to the crematorium."We had to beg him not to overcharge us further," Chaudhary said.Firewood for the cremation cost double the normal rate, while the priest who performed the last rites charged the family 5,000 rupees – two to five times the usual amount.Rohit Jangam, a Hindu priest in Satara, said many priests there were refusing to enter crematoriums out of fear, and those who were willing were charging higher prices."It is too risky to perform the last rites of those died because of coronavirus," he said. "If someone asks, I do, but I charge more since I am taking the risk."He declined to disclose how much more he was charging.Oxygen RacketFor Covid patients who manage to survive, black marketing of medical supplies is rampant, with desperate relatives paying huge sums in what is still a low-income country.In the capital New Delhi, oxygen cylinders have changed hands for as much as 70,000 rupees, according to interviews with relatives – twenty times the usual price and many times the monthly salary of the average Indian.Police there have made more than 100 arrests in cases connected with overcharging, including for drugs, ambulance services and hospital beds.Arveena Sharma, a 28-year-old lawyer from Noida, a satellite city of New Delhi, has helped more than a dozen Covid patients who are friends and relatives get oxygen and medical supplies in the last month. Almost all of them have overpaid significantly."They're like vultures," she said of those selling black market drugs."You are standing in front of me with something which might save me and you’re looking at my pocket." ($1 = 73.3130 Indian rupees)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-covid-19-crisis-pushes-up-the-cost-of-living-and-dying-101620990109652.html
14-05-2021||India||Congress brings up pre-poll promise of free vaccination in Bihar; urges Centre not to ‘burden’ states to procure vaccine||Congress on Friday hit out at the Centre over the pre-poll promise of delivering free vaccines against coronavirus disease (Covid-19) they made in Bihar and asking why the responsibility of procuring vaccines has now been left to the states.“In the Bihar elections, you (the Prime Minister) and the finance minister had declared that free vaccines would be available, was it a jumla?” said Congress leader Shaktisinh Gohil in a tweet.“Why are you putting the burden on the states today? Why are you blaming your sins on the states?” he added.The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) while campaigning for the Bihar legislative assembly elections had promised to provide vaccines to citizens free of cost. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had launched the election manifesto, promising free vaccination amongst other things, in Patna in October of last year. A similar promise was reiterated during poll campaigning in Bengal.Bihar has been in the news lately for a tragic incident where 82 bodies were recovered from the Ganga in the state’s Buxar district. The bodies are believed to have floated downstream from Uttar Pradesh. It spread panic amongst locals who feared Covid-19 might have led to the deaths.Buxar district magistrate Aman Samir told Hindustan Times that continuous patrols were being carried out in Chakki, Simri, Brahmpur and Chausa, and the people have been asked not to bathe in the river since it is not known why the deaths occurred.“People are being advised to avoid taking bath in the river. Since all bodies are floating downstream from the direction of Uttar Pradesh, it is not known what disease claimed them,” he said.Congress also reiterated its previous demand of doing away with the required 28% GST levied on medical supplies for corona and on ambulance rides, and urged the Prime Minister to vaccinate 60% of the population, through a “universal vaccination” programme, to stop a “third wave” of Covid-19 from happening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-brings-up-pre-poll-promise-of-free-vaccination-in-bihar-urges-centre-not-to-burden-states-to-procure-vaccines-101620987482109.html
14-05-2021||India||Navy to pick 2,000 tonnes of oxygen from UAE, Kuwait and Qatar to battle Covid||After successfully establishing two logistics lines with key allies in West Asia and South-East Asia, the Indian Navy is expected to pick up 600 metric tonnes (MT) of liquid medical oxygen from Qatar, 400 MTs from United Arab Emirates (UAE) and 1000 MTs from Kuwait in the next 30 days. Landing Ship Tank (LST) INS Shardul is already in Kuwait since May 12 and will depart for India on May 15 with 120 MTs of liquid oxygen.Just as India came to the aid of these countries during the first wave of the pandemic, the West Asian allies with countries like France adding to the heft, have established an “Oxygen Solidarity Bridge” with India since April 29. “The Indian Navy has established two logistics lines, one with the Gulf countries, other with South East Asian countries led by Singapore. The planned pick of medical oxygen from Gulf countries is highly dynamic and numbers can change. But the fact remains is that India’s Gulf Allies are standing with it in times of medical distress,” said an Admiral.In fact, the Indian Navy and Indian Air Force are working in a “jugalbandi” mode with the former ferrying filled 20 MT liquid medical oxygen containers from Gulf region and the latter facilitating the return of empty containers for refilling and consequent refilling again. “All the strategic lift ships that is LST and Landing Transport Docks have been deployed for lifting critical medical supplies. In fact, all the six ships deployed in the Gulf and Arabian Sea for Exercise Varuna with the French Navy were diverted to Bahrain, Qatar and Kuwait. INS Shardul was dispatched from Kochi to the Gulf region. As of now, 260 MTs of LMO and 2000 filled oxygen cylinders have been delivered to Indian shores from warships deployed in the western Indian Ocean region. For example:• INS Talwar picked up 40 MT of LMO from Manana, Bahrain on May 1.• INS Trikhand and INS Tarkash picked up 80 MT of LMO from Doha, Qatar on May 6 and 8 respectively. These supplies were facilitated by Air Liquide, France using their oxygen plant in Qatar.• INS Kochi and INS Tabar picked up 140 MT of LMO and 1400 oxygen cylinders from Kuwait on May 6.• INS Kolkata picked 200 oxygen cylinders from Doha on May 4 and 40 MT of LMO from Doha on May 5.Majority supplies of LMO secured from either West Asia or South East Asia are to decimate the Covid-19 infection in South, East and Western India as the positivity rate is expected to go up in the coming days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/navy-to-pick-2-000-tonnes-of-oxygen-from-uae-kuwait-and-qatar-to-battle-covid-101620986421330.html
14-05-2021||India||Gap between Covishield doses increased to 12-16 weeks: What experts say||India on Thursday accepted the recommendation of the government's expert panel and increased the gap between two doses of Covishield to 12 to 16 weeks. This was the second time the gap was revised since January when the country rolled out its vaccination drive. Amid attack from the opposition that this is a move to cover up the present vaccine shortage of the country, White House chief medical adviser Dr Anthony Fauci told news agency ANI that this is a reasonable thing to do."Dramatically ramping up COVID-19 vaccination drive is key to ending the crisis in India and extending the gap between two doses of Covishield is a reasonable approach," White House chief medical adviser Dr Anthony Fauci told ANI in an exclusive interview on Thursday.Watch: 'Extended gap between 2 doses of Covishield reasonable approach': Dr Fauci||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gap-between-covishield-doses-increased-to-12-16-weeks-what-experts-say-101620982789902.html
14-05-2021||India||Telangana refuses entry to Covid patients from Andhra Pradesh at border check points||The Telangana police on Friday denied entry to ambulances and vehicles carrying Covid-19 patients from Andhra Pradesh into the state at the border.The Suryapet Superintendent of Police (SP), R. Bhaskaran, in a statement said that all ambulances coming from Andhra Pradesh to Telangana for Covid treatment, and personal vehicles were being checked. Those coming for treatment would only be allowed into Telangana if they had a hospital appointment as well as an authorization pass from the Director of Health Covid control center.People must have both the documents and then only they should come to Telangana, he added.Many ambulances from Andhra Pradesh were stopped at Garikapadu's checkpoint for hours.A woman said that she was stuck at Gadwal, Andhra Pradesh-Telangana border since 4 am in the morning."They have stopped us since 4 am. As oxygen was about to finish the reporters helped me. I went back to the Kurnool area and filled the oxygen in an ambulance and came back. Even this oxygen will only last for two hours," said the woman.She further said that no one was responding from the Andhra Pradesh or the Telangana government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-refuses-entry-to-covid-patients-from-andhra-pradesh-at-border-check-points-101620981857235.html
14-05-2021||India||Dr Reddy’s announces soft launch of Sputnik; vaccine to cost ₹995.40 per shot||Russian made Coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccine, Sputnik V, has been soft launched in India, with the first dose administered in Hyderabad on Friday, announced Dr Reddy’s laboratories in a statement.The vaccine is priced at ₹995.40 per shot in the market, with a possibility of prices coming down further once local production starts.Dr Reddy’s labs is the licensed distributors of the vaccine in India.The first consignment carrying 150,000 doses of the vaccine landed in Hyderabad on May 1.“...the first consignment of imported doses of the Sputnik V vaccine that landed in India on 1st May, 2021, received regulatory clearance from the Central Drugs Laboratory, Kasauli, on 13th May, 2021. As part of a limited pilot, the soft launch of the vaccine has commenced and the first dose of the vaccine was administered in Hyderabad today on 14th May, 2021,” said Dr Reddy’s in a statement.Also Watch | ‘India won’t lose hope, will fight & win’: PM Modi on Covid second waveFurther consignments of imported doses are expected over the coming months. Production of the vaccine locally is likely to start around July.“The imported doses of the vaccine are presently priced at an MRP of ₹948 + 5% GST per dose, with the possibility of a lower price point when local supply begins. The company is working closely with its six manufacturing partners in India to fulfil regulatory requirements to ensure smooth and timely supply,” the company statement read.Sputnik V is the third vaccine to be given Emergency Use Authorisation in India after Oxford University -AstraZeneca developed Covishield and Bharat Biotech manufactured Covaxin. India has also allowed citizens over the age of 18 years to receive Covid-19 vaccinations beginning May 1.“With the rising cases in India, vaccination is our most effective tool in our battle against Covid-19. Contributing to the vaccination drive in India is our biggest priority right now to help Indians be healthy and safe,” said GV Prasad, co-chairman and managing director, Dr Reddy’s.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dr-reddy-s-announces-soft-launch-of-sputnik-vaccine-to-cost-rs-995-40-per-shot-101620981778422.html
14-05-2021||India||As your Pradhan Sevak, I feel your pain of losing loved ones, says PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday said that he too feels the same pain and loss that people across the country are feeling after losing loved ones to Covid-19.While speaking on the occasion of the transfer of the eighth installment under the PM Kisan, PM Modi called the coronavirus an 'invisible enemy' and urged people to continue taking precautions such as social distancing and using face masks to protect themselves and their families."After 100 years, such a terrible epidemic is testing the world, step by step. There is an invisible enemy in front of us. We have lost many of our close ones to this enemy," he said."The pain that the countrymen have endured, the pain that many people have gone through, I feel the same pain. Being your 'Pradhan Sevak', I share your sentiment," PM Modi added.He further urged people to get vaccinated as it the best defence again Covid-19 and said that the Central and State governments are doing their best to increase vaccination."The corona vaccine is a great means of defence. The Central and state Governments together are making continuous efforts to enable more and more countrymen to get vaccinated at a rapid pace. So far, around 18 crore vaccine doses have been given across the country," he said."Free vaccination is being done in government hospitals across the country. So whenever your turn comes, make sure to get inoculated. This will give us protection and reduce the risk of serious illness," he said.India on Friday reported 3,43,144 new Covid-19 cases, 3,44,776 recoveries and 4,000 deaths, taking the total cases in the country to 2,40,46,809, the Union Health Ministry reported.As many as 2,00,79,599 recoveries and 2,62,317 deaths have been recorded in the country since the beginning of the pandemic.There are currently 37,04,893 active cases and a total of 17,92,98,584 doses of Covid-19 vaccines have been administered so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-your-pradhan-sevak-i-feel-your-pain-of-losing-loved-ones-says-pm-modi-101620979683393.html
14-05-2021||India||Karnataka Congress drafts ₹100 crore plan to procure Covid vaccines||The Congress in Karnataka on Friday said it has prepared a ₹100 crore plan to procure vaccines directly from manufacturers.DK Shivakumar, the president of the state unit of the party, said that ₹10 crore will come from the Congress and the remaining ₹90 crore can come from funds of their MLA/MLC funds.“I appeal to the Yediyurappa government to please allow us to use the MLA/MLC funds to procure vaccines directly in a transparent manner because the Modi and Yediyurappa governments are failing to do so for months now,” Shivakumar said in a statement.Also Read | Covaxin dispatched to Gujarat, Assam, TN, Karnataka and Odisha: Bharat Biotech“Since the Central, and state governments have collectively failed to vaccinate the masses, we want to do it ourselves. We just need two small permissions, one from the Centre and the other from the state government. My appeal to the BJP to not let politics come in the way and in the spirit of Atmanirbhar Bharat, allow the Congress to directly procure and administer vaccines,” he said.However, there remains little clarity on how the party proposes to procure the vaccines as the entire country is currently facing shortages.There wasn’t an immediate response from the government.Karnataka has suspended vaccination for those in the 18-44 age group amid shortage of vaccines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-congress-drafts-rs-100-crore-plan-to-procure-covid-vaccines-101620979138544.html
14-05-2021||India||Covid-19: Imported Sputnik V vaccine to cost ₹995.40 per shot, doses made in India may be cheaper||Imported coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccine produced by Russia, Sputnik V, will cost ₹995.40 per dose in India while the price of vaccines produced in the country may be lower, according to a release issued by pharmaceutical company Dr. Reddy's Laboratories. This price includes the GST, which is five per cent per dose, said the Indian manufacturer of the Russian Covid-19 vaccine.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageMeanwhile, as part of a limited pilot launch of Sputnik V in the country, the first dose of the vaccine was administered in Hyderabad, according to PTI."The first consignment of imported doses of the Sputnik V vaccine landed in India on May 1, and received regulatory clearance from the Central Drugs Laboratory, Kasauli, on May 13, 2021," the pharma company said.The vaccine was given emergency use authorisation (EUA) by the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) in April.On Thursday, the Union ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) announced that the vaccine will be available in markets across the country from early next week.Also Read: India, Russia together against Covid-19, says Russian envoy as Sputnik V arrivesDr VK Paul, member, NITI Aayog made the announcement during a press meet. The local production of Sputnik V will begin in July, he said.Sputnik V vaccine, first approved in Russia on August 11, 2020, is widely considered the first vaccine against the viral disease. It has an efficacy of 91.6%, according to the Lancet Medical Journal. It will be the third vaccine to be in use in India.The other two vaccines being administered to people in India are Covishield and Covaxin. Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII) is manufacturing the Oxford University-AstraZeneca shot as Covishield and Bharat Biotech International Limited, located in Hyderabad, has made Covaxin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-imported-sputnik-v-vaccine-to-cost-rs-995-40-per-shot-doses-made-in-india-may-be-cheaper-101620975854634.html
14-05-2021||India||Covaxin dispatched to Gujarat, Assam, TN, Karnataka and Odisha: Bharat Biotech||Bharat Biotech on Friday said it has dispatched Covid vaccine Covaxin to various states like Gujarat, Assam, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka and Odisha.The Hyderabad-based vaccine major, which has come under fire from the Delhi government over supply-related issues, said it has also dispatched Covaxin lots to Kerala and Uttarakhand."Covaxin goes to Gandhinagar, Guwahati, Chennai, Hyderabad, Bengaluru & Bhuvneshwar. thank all our employees @ BHarat bio who worked thru the holy month of Ramzan..." Bharat Biotech Co-Founder and Joint Managing Director Suchitra Ella said in a tweet.Earlier in a late night tweet on Thursday, she tweeted informing supply of the much in demand vaccine to Kerala and Uttarakhand."Covaxin sent to Kerala & Uttarakhand. Thanq for the concern, many offered to help. Our work is highly stringent, realtime & technical,no work from home! All Our employees will be taken care of, won't deter us from our mission! Let's be thankful,helpful & hopeful always," she tweeted.Ella however did not provide details on the quantum of supplies.On May 12, Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia said that Bharat Biotech has informed the state government that it cannot provide 'additional' Covaxin doses to the national capital.Responding to the criticism, Ella in a tweet said that It was quite disheartening to listen to some states complaining about the company's intentions regarding supply of Covaxin.She said that the company had already dispatched Covaxin lots to 18 states on May 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covaxin-dispatched-to-gujarat-assam-tn-karnataka-and-odisha-bharat-biotech-101620973686904.html
14-05-2021||India||After image-building jibe, Anupam Kher says 'those who work make mistakes'||Actor Anupam Kher created a stir by his apparent jibe at the BJP government as in a television interview he said that the government must understand that there is more to life than image building. While the snub from an actor who profusely endorsed BJP and PM Modi was a shocker, on Friday, the actor posted a cryptic tweet without clarifying the context. In his message, he said mistakes are made by those who work, while those who do not work spend their lives finding faults with others. His tweet comes across as praise for the BJP — an apparent attempt to offset his earlier comment.गलती उन्हीं से होती है जो काम करते हैं, निकम्मों की ज़िंदगी तो दूसरों की बुराई खोजने में ही ख़त्म हो जाती है..:)'More to life than image building': Anupam Kher says Centre 'slipped' in Covid-19 responseIn the interview, the former chief of the Film and Television Institute of India said that the government had slipped somewhere in its management of the pandemic situation, news agency PTI reported. He also emphasised that for opposition parties too, it was not right to capitalise on the pandemic situation."I think the criticism is valid in lots of cases... Only an inhuman person will not get affected by the bodies floating (in the rivers)," Anupam Kher said referring to the reports of bodies floating in the Ganga."But for another political party to use it for their gain, I think that is also not right. I think we should, as people, get angry. It is important to hold the government responsible for what's happening. Somewhere they have slipped. It is time for them to understand that there is much more to life than just image building maybe," he added."There are problems, pain, anger, frustration, that's obvious... Lot of people say 'You are always so optimistic', but I say there's no other way out for me. Our lives haven't been smooth sailing. It is just that this situation has happened on a world level," the actor said, as quotedby PTI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-image-building-jibe-anupam-kher-says-those-who-work-make-mistakes-101620975129660.html
14-05-2021||India||Bihar sees drop in new Covid cases; Patna remains hot spot||Bihar showed a steady decline in Covid cases with 7,752 new cases, but the number of deaths went up to 90 during the last 24 hours on Thursday even as the state extended the lockdown to May 25. Bihar reported the highest Covid-19 deaths in a day this month on May 4 when 105 patients succumbed to the SARS-CoV-2 virus. Patna, with 1,485 new infections and 16 deaths reported on Thursday, remained a hot spot after daily fresh cases dropped to 977 on Wednesday. Also Read | Bihar extends lockdown till May 25, test positivity rate dips to 8.9%Nalanda with 551 cases, Vaishali 437, Purnia 409, West Champaran 320 and Saharsa 277 were among the other leading contributors. Bihar’s recovery inched up to 84.15% after 11,008 patients were discharged from different facilities, taking the total recoveries so far to 530,314. The test positivity ratio, which is the number of people testing positive for the virus out of those tested, had slid to 8.8% on May 12. It was 15.6% when Bihar announced lockdown on May 4.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-sees-drop-in-new-covid-cases-patna-remains-hot-spot-101620973918006.html
14-05-2021||India||With 12,390 new infections, Odisha sees sudden increase in Covid-19 cases||Odisha recorded a sudden surge in Covid-19 cases on Friday as the state reported 12,390 new cases in the last 24 hours, according to the state health bulletin.As many as 10,649 new Covid-19 cases were reported in Odisha on Thursday.The state also recorded 22 Covid-related deaths while 8,665 people recovered from the disease in the last 24 hours.Out of fresh Covid cases reported, 6,938 people got injected in quarantine, while 5,452 caught the infection from local contacts.The total cases now stand at 5,88,687 including 4,82,345 recoveries and 2,273 deaths. At present, there are 10,4016 active cases in the state.As per the government data, the state has tested 1,07,69,312 samples so far.One of the worst-hit districts of the state is Bargarh, which has reported 507 new cases in the last 24 hours, which is the highest among other 31 districts of the states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-12-390-new-infections-odisha-sees-sudden-increase-in-covid-19-cases-101620972387313.html
14-05-2021||India||Sterlite Copper oxygen plant develops 'technical snag'; production halted||Vedanta Ltd owned Sterlite Copper Plant which recently, commenced production of medical oxygen at its facility in Tamil Nadu has faced a 'technical snag' in a cold box leading to a suspension of production, the company said on Friday.The facility began production of medical oxygen and the first set of medical oxygen tankers was dispatched to the beneficiaries on Thursday from the Tuticorin plant, located about 600 kms from here.In a statement on Friday, the company said, "a technical snag has developed in the cold box at our oxygen plant in Tuticorin, leading to a temporary pause in production."The company said it anticipated a 'minor technical fluctuation' since the plant remained unattended for three years.A technical expert group has been onsite from day one to monitor the situation and to provide real-time solutions to resume production at the earliest."We plan to return to stabilised production soon," the company said.On Thursday, the company said with the production of medical oxygen, it would initially dispatch two oxygen tankers on a daily basis and later it would be 'scaled up' by ramping up production.The oxygen supplied is of 98.6 per cent purity and has received the necessary certifications for its use.The Sterlite copper smelter plant was given approval by the then AIADMK government on April 26 at an all-party meeting to produce medical oxygen at its facility for a period of four months at the facility in Tuticorin.The unit was sealed by the state government in May 2018, days after 13 agitators who were part of a protest against the company over environmental concerns were killed in police firing during a violent anti-Sterlite stir in the southern district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sterlite-copper-oxygen-plant-develops-technical-snag-production-halted-101620971295073.html
14-05-2021||India||PM Modi releases eighth instalment of financial benefit under PM Kisan scheme||Prime Minister Narendra Modi released the eighth instalment of the financial benefit under the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi (PM Kisan) scheme via video conferencing on Friday.As part of this instalment, more than Rs19,000 crore was transferred in the bank accounts of over 9.5 crore beneficiary farmer families. This is the highest amount paid by the government under the scheme in a single instalment."As part of this scheme, the government is working towards encouraging farmers to take up alternative forms of farming such as organic farming. These crop require less investment. They are good for health and for the soil too. It also sells for a higher amount," he said.Also watch | Covid | ‘Stop central vista, repeal farm laws’: Leaders write to PM Modi﻿"All farmers, especially from Punjab, are satisfied with the scheme. I have seen many videos of farmers expressing their satisfaction on social media," PM Modi said.Also Read | PM-Kisan scheme completes 2 years: All you need to knowThe PM also interacted with the beneficiaries of the scheme after releasing the amount. Talking to a farmer from Andhra Pradesh, who turned a piece of barren land into suitable land for organic farming, the PM said, "You have set an example for others. Your self confidence speaks for your ability and experience." The farmer from the southern state told PM Modi that she grows three crops on her land throughout the year.Talking to a farmer from Meghalaya who has set up a business model for organic farming, PM Modi said as many as 10,000 Farmer Producer Organisation (FPO) were being set up in the country and small farmers were also getting associated with them. "Your confidence in what you do makes your model a sought-after one," the PM told the farmer.Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar was also present at the event. "West bengal has joined the scheme with more than 7 lakh farmers of the state getting the benefit today," he said.The scheme, launched in 2019, was a National Democratic Alliance (NDA) flagship project that aimed at providing financial support to the farmers of the country. Under the scheme, ₹6000 is transferred to the beneficiaries' bank accounts per year. This amount is paid in quarterly installments of ₹2000 each. The scheme covers all but affluent farmers. Until now, ₹1.15 lakh crore has been transferred to farmer families under the scheme, a government release issued on Thursday claimed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-releases-eighth-instalment-of-financial-benefit-under-pm-kisan-scheme-101620952285054.html
14-05-2021||India||Oxygen levels drop again at Goa medical college; 13 patients dead||Oxygen levels at the Goa Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) fluctuated yet again on the intervening night of Thursday and Friday, reportedly causing another 13 deaths. Resident doctors began reporting fluctuations around 9.30pm that went on till 2.30am in the wards assigned to Covid patients.GMCH, which has now seen 75 deaths owing to dropping levels over the past few days, has reported fluctuations for six nights in a row now.Patients’ relatives began sending out help messages on social media, prompting officials from the health department, including health secretary Ravi Dhawan, to rush to the hospital to ensure the supply is restored, which happened around 2.30am.“Health department officials have reached the site (and have) said they were trying the dura cylinders (new bigger cylinders that are being installed at GMC), which is why the drop happened,” Shruti Chaturvedi, who has filed a petition in the high court over Covid management in the state, said.Goa Forward Pary chief Vijai Sardesai claimed that 13 people succumbed during the ‘dark’ hours due to the low levels of oxygen on Thursday and 75 over four nights, a figure that was not independently confirmed by the health authorities. PTI cited a senior health official as confirming that 13 more patients, admitted in various Covid-19 wards in the GMCH, had died in the early hours.Also Read | How to vaccinate 10 million people a day“In all, 75 people have died during the dark hour, that is between 1am and 6am, in the last four consecutive nights. On the 10th (May) night, it was 26 people, on the 11th night, it was 21 people, on the 12th night it was 15 people and now, last night, it was 13 people. So, 75 people have died on four consecutive nights, because of oxygen shortage, basically mismanagement of oxygen supply at GMCH,” he said.The Goa government has claimed before the Bombay high court at Goa that is currently hearing a bunch of petitions concerning Covid management in the state, that the issues plaguing the GMCH are logistical rather than supply.“There were logistical issues involved in manoeuvring the tractor which carries the trolleys of oxygen, and in connecting the cylinders to the manifold. During this process there was some interruption, which resulted in fall of pressure in the supply lines of oxygen to the patients. It is basically on account of these factors some casualties may have taken place,” the state government told the court on Thursday.They assured the court that the issues would be sorted out.The Goa government has also set up an independent committee headed by IIT-Goa director Dr BK Mishra to inquire into the supply issues at the state’s premier research institute. The committee also consists of Dr VN Jindal, a former dean of the GMCH, and secretary, urban development, Tariq Thomas.The high court had earlier made it clear that the Goa government should not seek to hide behind logistic excuses for proper supply not being maintained. (With PTI input)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/oxygen-levels-drop-yet-again-at-goa-medical-college-issue-sorted-by-230am-101620970077689.html
14-05-2021||India||Gir farmers, Kashmir driver, Agra woman: Centre lauds Covid warriors||The raging second wave of the coronavirus pandemic saw common men turning into saviours gathering whatever resources they can for those who are in need. The Centre, through its mygovindia handle on social media, lauded such a few instances as its "daily dose of positive news" about Covid warriors.Kashmir's Manzoor Ahmed is a truck driver. As an asthmatic himself, Manzoor is on 24X7 oxygen support and knows the importance of oxygen. As Covid-19 patients are struggling in want of oxygen, Manzoor has decided to use his truck for delivering oxygen cylinders to Covid patients.Here's your daily dose of #PositiveNews about #COVIDWarriors who are putting up a strong fight against #COVID19! Take a look! #IndiaFightsCorona #TogetherWeCan pic.twitter.com/1iUeZFXnEaFarmers of Gujarat's Gir have decided to give free coconuts to the Covid patients admitted at Junagadh Civil Hospital as coconut water is recommended for the nutrition of patients suffering from the infection.Another inspiring story that the government shared is of Agra's Nina Muniyal, who has started a free delivery of home-cooked food to covid-19 patients. On a day, she provides home-cooked nutritious meals to over 100 patients.Mygov is a government platform for citizen engagement. On social media, it shares the latest updates of Covid-19, government initiatives and inspiring stories of Covid warriors. A few days ago, it shared the story of Dattatraya Sawant, a part-time teacher of Mumbai who transformed his auto into a makeshift ambulance. NCC cadet Divyanshi was praised for arranging free oxygen refills in Delhi. Three students of Don Bosco College Fatorda was lauded for designing a sanitising robot that can save workers from chemical exposure. The platform is also sharing the works done by every government department towards fighting the ongoing pandemic. CEO of Mygov Abhishek Singh recently conducted a workshop of central government officials to "create a positive image of the givernment".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gir-farmers-kashmir-driver-agra-woman-centre-lauds-covid-warriors-101620968834004.html
14-05-2021||India||Renowned obstetrician, gynaecologist SK Bhandari, who delivered Priyanka Gandhi, Rahul Gandhi, dies of Covid-19||One of the longest serving doctors at Sir Ganga Ram Hospital here and renowned obstetrician and gynaecologist Dr S K Bhandari died on Thursday due to Covid-19 related complications, officials said.Dr Bhandari, who delivered Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, his sister Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and her two children, was 86.She was admitted to the hospital two weeks back for some heart-related issues but tested positive for Covid-19, said Dr D S Rana, chairman of Sir Ganga Ram Hospital.He said that the virus worsened her health issues and she passed away at 2 pm on Thursday.Dr Bhandari had received both the doses of the Covid-19 vaccine, he added.Her husband, a retired IAS officer, aged 97, is also in the ICU after he tested positive for Covid-19 and he has not been informed about his wife''s death, he said.In a series of tweets, Priyanka Gandhi condoled the demise of the senior doctor."Dr. S.K. Bhandari, Emeritus Consultant, Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, who delivered my brother, me, my son and my daughter passed away today. Even in her late seventies, she would drive early morning to the hospital herself. A leader to the end, she upheld every noble trait of humanity. A woman I will always respect and admire, a friend I will always miss," she posted on Twitter.Rana said Bhandari had served the hospital for 58 years. She had joined the hospital after returning to Delhi from London where she did her post-graduation.She was the one who established the gynaecology and obstetrics department of the hospital and even though she was not an IVF specialist, she encouraged doctors in setting up the facility at the hospital, Rana said.She was coming to the hospital during the first wave of the pandemic but stopped coming after she developed heart-related issues. She was offering consultation from her home."When I came to Delhi 30-40 years ago, there were only two renowned gyanaecologists in Delhi -- Dr S K Bhandari and Dr Sheila Mehra of Moolchand Medcity. She was like a mother figure to me and the loss is quite huge," he said.Dr Bhandari has a daughter, who is also a doctor, and was taking care of her ailing parents.Dr Abha Majumdar, director and head of IVF at the Ganga Ram Hospital, said there was an unsaid bond between them."We hardly had to say anything to each other. I always knew she was there to support me and she knew that I was heading towards my goal. She was like a mother figure and she was the one who helped me realise my calling," she told PTI.Dr Majumdar had joined the hospital in February, 1987 and was taking care of the free infertility OPD on Thursdays. After almost a year, Dr Bhandari, who was the head of the Obstetriics and Gynaecology Department, asked her about her area of interest and she said it was infertility treatment. She encouraged us to explore the field, she recalled."She had the vision. When she learnt I was interested in infertility treatment, she said that you will have to put your whole and soul into it and you won''t be taking up general gynae cases. I was advised by so many other obstetrics and gynaecologists that how will you mange your bread and butter doing IVF? I give my full credit to Dr Bhandari because she pushed me," she said.She was so proud and there was a oration on her mother''s birth anniversary in Ranchi. She asked me to give a lecture there and it was proud moment "for me"."I went to the Covid ward to see her. Though she never taught me, but she was always proud. She never said it in so many words but she always made me that she chose the right person for the job. She was a mother figure for a lot of people," she added."She was sure that I won't let her down," she recalled.Her husband Dr JS Bhandari had also received the two doses of vaccine. Her daughter had also contracted the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/renowned-obstetrician-gynaecologist-sk-bhandari-who-delivered-priyanka-gandhi-rahul-gandhi-dies-of-covid19-101620967826797.html
14-05-2021||India||Covid-19: India receives shipment of ventilators, Remdesivir from European Union||Amid the COVID-19 crisis in India, an aircraft carrying a shipment of ventilators, Remdesivir and medical equipment from EU member states, arrived in New Delhi on Friday.External Affairs Ministry (EAM) spokesperson Arindam Bagchi acknowledged the continued solidarity shown by European countries including Germany, Netherlands, and Portugal."EU solidarity and cooperation continues. Aircraft arrives carrying 223 ventilators, 25000 vials of Remdesivir and other medical equipment from Germany, 30000 vials of Remdesivir from Netherlands and 5500 vials of Remdesivir from Portugal. Value support of our European Union partners," EAM spokesperson tweeted.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageEarlier today, India welcomed the arrival of 5.6 million masks/respirators that arrived from Kazakhstan to combat the deadly virus that has put a strain on the health infrastructure of the country."Further deepening our Strategic Partnership. Welcome shipment of over 5.6 million masks/respirators that arrived from Kazakhstan," Bagchi tweeted.India has received support from several countries, including the US, Russia and the UK as it battles a deadly second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic.As of Thursday, India recorded 3,62,727 new COVID-19 cases, 3,52,181 discharges and 4,120 deaths. The total positive cases in the country so far stand at 2,37,03,665. This includes 1,97,34,823 recoveries and 2,58,317 reported deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-india-receives-shipment-of-ventilators-remdesivir-from-european-union-101620967481381.html
14-05-2021||India||SC commission begins two-day Bengal visit to probe violence||The National Commission for Scheduled Castes (NCSC) has directed the West Bengal police to take “stern action” on the perpetrators of violence against members of the community after assembly elections results were announced on May 2.The commission, headed by Vijay Sampla, is in West Bengal for a two-day visit to carry out spot visits in the East Burdhwan and 24 Paraganas districts where it received complaints of atrocities against Dalits.Though the West Bengal government had earlier asked the NCSC to cancel the visit in view of the pandemic restrictions, the panel chose to go ahead with its inquiry into the cases of violence.“We spoke to affected families in Nabagram village in East Bardhaman district. Many people were initially scared of recording their complaints. In many areas, people have fled their homes in fear,” Sampla said.The commission went to the house of a complainant, Ashish Khetrapal, in Nabagram and found it locked. They were later informed that Khetrapal was injured and was being treated in a nursing home. His statement was recorded wherein he gave details of the attack that left two members of his family dead.Also Read | National Commission seeks report on quota in promotion to judicial officers in PunjabThe commission later met some of the affected people at the rest house in Kolkata. “There, more than 25 complainants were heard in the presence of the district commissioner and SSP who were directed to take stern actions as per the SC and ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act,” Sampla said.Complainants told the commission that in Milikpara village of East Bardhaman, 12 shops belonging to Schedule Castes were singled out, and vandalised. They also alleged that they did not receive help from the police.Sampla has directed the district commissioner to compensate and rehabilitate the victims as per the SC/ST act.On May 14, the commission will be visiting Sarisa village under South 24 Parganas, where it will listen to the first-hand account of victims.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-commission-begins-two-day-bengal-visit-to-probe-violence-101620966779743.html
14-05-2021||India||Govt’s telemedicine service crosses 5 million consultations||Union health ministry’s eSanjeevani telemedicine service crossed 5 million tele-consultations on Thursday, in about a little over a year since the service began.The ministry had begun online out patient department (OPD) consultations in April last year during the nationwide lockdown announced by the Centre in March to manage coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak in the country.“The flagship National Telemedicine Service of MoHFW has served more than 50 lakh (0.5 million) patients. Patient to doctor remote consultation services were rolled out by the Union Ministry in April 2020 while the OPDs in the country were closed during first lockdown. The eSanjeevani initiative is operational in 31 states/Union Territories in the country and daily, around 40,000 patients across the country are using this contactless and risk-free modality of healthcare services delivery,” said the health ministry in a statement.The service operates at two levels: the doctor-to-doctor telemedicine platform, and the doctor-to-patient platform.The doctor-to-doctor telemedicine platform is being implemented at all the health and wellness centres (HWC) in the country in hub and spoke model under the Centre’s Ayushman Bharat scheme. So far, eSanjeevaniAB-HWC has been implemented at least 18,000 health and wellness centres and 1,500 hubs, and by December 2022, it would be operational at 155,000 health and wellness centres.Also Read | Civil Hospital in Lucknow gets post-Covid ward, telemedicine facilityTelemedicine entails delivery of health services from a distance using internet and it not only extends the reach of health services but also improves quality of health services besides saving time and money.eSanjeevaniAB-HWC was rolled out in November 2019, and 22 states have started using this digital modality for close to around 2 million patients that have been extended health services by doctors and specialists. In all, at least 21,000 users, including specialists, doctors and community health officers, have been trained and onboarded on eSanjeevaniAB-HWC.The other module of national telemedicine service is eSanjeevaniOPD. It has been rolled out in 28 states and Union Territories. At least 350 OPDs have been set up on eSanjeevaniOPD, over 300 of these are specialty OPDs. Close to 3,000,000 patients have been served through eSanjeevaniOPD, a free of cost service.“Few states are working towards rolling out special home isolation OPDs wherein the patients will be screened for Covid-19 and for remote screening purposes. States are planning to engage final year MBBS students. Owing to the increasing load of cases, in a few states, eSanjeevaniOPD is being used round-the-clock. Tamil Nadu is the first state to record over 1 million consultations on eSanjeevani. The Ministry of Defence too has roped in veterans of armed forces medical services to provide their services to the public in selected states,” the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govts-telemedicine-service-crosses-5-million-consultations-101620965457038.html
14-05-2021||India||Centre pins hopes on 5 Covid vaccines apart from Covishield, Covaxin, Sputnik||India is hoping to produce at least two billion vaccine doses against Covid-19 by the end of this year, Niti Aayog (health) member VK Paul has said. While Bharat Biotech and Serum Institute of India will ramp up their production, the government is hoping to start the production of several other vaccines which are in the pipeline. The tentative list presented by the government comprises eight vaccines, including Covishield, Covaxin and Sputnik V. The Russian vaccine will be available in the market from early next week, Dr Paul said. But apart from these three vaccines, with which people are familiar now, the government is hoping to get five more vaccines. Among them, four will be made in India, Dr Paul said.Over 2 billion vaccines to be available by Dec: CentreHere is all you need to know about these 5 emerging vaccines:Bio E Subunit vaccine: It is a subunit vaccine which is in the third phase of trial. In the phase 1/2 trial, the vaccine was found to be safe and well-tolerated. The vaccine is very promising, Dr Paul said. The Centre is hoping to get 30 crore doses of this vaccine between August and December, provided it gets authorisation. "You may say this is optimistic. Yes, of course. Is there a chance that this might not happen? Yes, there is. But work is going on," Dr Paul said.Also watch | ‘2 billion doses’: Centre briefs on Covid vaccines, Sputnik V availability﻿Zydus Cadila DNA vaccine: It is in the last leg of phase 3 trial and will soon apply for the licence, Dr Paul said. It is a three-dose vaccine and will be administered using a needle-free technology.Novavax/Covavax: Pune's Serum Institute of India will manufacture this vaccine, developed by the US's Novavax.Bharat Biotech's nasal vaccine: This is a single shot, a needle-free vaccine that Bharat Biotech is developing. The vaccine is in the 1/2 trial phase. "They have started working. Data came from the company," Dr Paul said assuring that these are not random projections.Gennova mRNA vaccine: Pune's Gennova Biopharmaceuticals is developing this messenger RNA vaccine. Pfizer and Moderna are also mRNA vaccines.Out of these five vaccines, four are Indian while Covavax is being developed abroad, though it will be produced by India's Serum Institue.Apart from these, vaccines made in foreign countries can also become available in India as the government has always been in touch with Pfizer, Moderna etc. The tranche of Sputnik vaccine that arrived from India will be available in the market from ext week, while the production of Sputnik in India by Dr Reddy's Laboratories will begin in July.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-pins-hopes-on-5-covid-vaccines-apart-from-covishield-covaxin-sputnik-101620963914257.html
14-05-2021||India||India's Covid-19 tally crosses 24 million-mark with 343,144 fresh cases, daily death toll stands at 4,000||India on Friday registered 343,144 new Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours, taking the country's total coronavirus infection tally past the 24-million mark. 4,000 new fatalities were recorded, taking the death toll to 262,317. The country's total case count has now reached 24,046,809, according to the Union health ministry's dashboard.The active coronavirus cases currently stand at 3,704,893. This accounts for 15.65% of the total confirmed Covid-19 cases in the country. As many as 344,776 patients were discharged in the last 24 hours and so far, and 20,079,599 people in total have recovered from the viral disease, the health ministry’s dashboard displayed. With this, the country’s recovery rate stands at 83.2%, the government said.The country has tested a total of 31,13,24,100 samples as of May 13. Out of this, 18,75,515 samples were tested for Covid-19 in the last 24 hours, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said on Twitter.The Union health ministry has said that Karnataka, Maharashtra, Kerala and Tamil Nadu are among the states that account for 82.5% of the total active cases in the country.Meanwhile, government advisor VK Paul has said that over 200 crore doses of Covid-19 vaccines will likely be available in India between August to December this year."Two billion doses (216 crore) will be made in the country in five months for India and for people of India. The vaccine will be available for all as we move forward. By the first quarter of the next year, the number is likely to be 300 crore," Paul added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-covid-19-tally-crosses-24-million-mark-with-343-144-fresh-cases-daily-death-toll-stands-at-4000-101620959959348.html
14-05-2021||India||PM Modi extends greetings on occasion of Akshaya Tritiya||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday greeted the nation on the occasion of Akshaya Tritiya."Happy Akshaya Tritiya to all. This festival associated with the accomplishment of auspicious works should give us the power to realize our resolve to conquer the corona epidemic," PM Modi tweeted.Akshaya Tritiya is celebrated every year in the month of April/May and is considered auspicious from beginning to end. Named after the third lunar of the spring month of Vaisakha in the Hindu calendar, this festival is celebrated by the Hindus and Jains as an annual spring festival in India and Nepal.The word 'Akshaya' means 'one that never diminishes' or 'the unending one'. On this day, people make donations, do good deeds and buy precious metals and jewels.Also known as Akha Teej or Akti, this year the muhurat of the puja the Puja begins at 05:38 am and ends at 12:18pm while the Tritiya Tithi begins at 5:38am on May 14 and ends at 7:59am on May 15. People usually start the day by praying for their forefathers and parents who are no more.This occasion is considered to be auspicious for new ventures, marriages and to buy gold since it is believed to bring good luck.Acoording to the Hindu mythology, Akshaya Tritiya marks the starting of Treta Yuga. It is referred to as Parasurama Jayanti since it also celebrates the birthday of Parasurama, the 6th incarnation of Lord Vishnu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-extends-greetings-on-occassion-of-akshaya-tritiya-101620961202526.html
14-05-2021||India||Singapore extends life-line to India in oxygen crisis||India’s mission oxygen with comprehensive partner Singapore began with a three sentence text message between external affairs minister S Jaishankar and foreign minister Vivian Balakrishnan on April 22 with the second wave of pandemic leaving afflicted Indians breathless.The SMS was followed by a telephone call between the two ministers as Jaishankar asked for medical oxygen and his Singaporean counterpart agreed with Prime Ministers of both countries kept in the loop. The Indian foreign minister asked his senior colleague defence minister Rajnath Singh to call in the Indian Air Force’s heavy transporters to pick the first four cryogenic tanks from Singapore which were needed to pick up liquid medical oxygen from east India to Covid-19 hit north and western parts of the country.Also watch | IAF aircraft with oxygen containers from Singapore lands in WB's Panagarh airbase﻿Defence minister Rajnath Singh called up Indian Air Force (IAF) chief Rakesh Kumar Singh Bhadauria, who was on a five-day official trip to France at that time, the same day in Paris. Leaving aside everything, Air Chief Bhadauria worked through the night to plan external and internal movement of transport planes. The entire transport fleet of IAF was placed on standby 24X7 with multiple sets of pilots as 'Mission Oxygen' began in earnest with a C-17 picking up four cryogenic containers from Changi in Singapore and reaching the transport hub of Panagarh in West Bengal.The cryogenic tanks picked up oxygen from several steel plants on the road and hitched on Railway flat wagons to reach their destinations. While industrial units largely in eastern India produce oxygen in large quantities, there was a global shortage of specialised cryogenic tanks needed to transport liquid oxygen. It was here that India’s trusted and tried ally Singapore came to aid at a critical time by acting as a logistics hub for crucial medical items that India wanted to source from abroad. Indian High Commissioner to Singapore P Kumaran played his part by taking an early initiative to identify good sources from key medical items in the city nation.On April 29, defence minister Rajnath Singh spoke to Singapore counterpart Ng Eng Hen about reinforcing capacities to fight the second wave of virus that had hit India. Two days later, Jaishankar again spoke to his Singaporean counterpart with the latter extremely forthcoming to help out India. Balakrishnan recalled how India had stood by Singapore in the first wave in 2021 and promised all support by sensitizing all other ministries in the city nation about national health emergency in India. In 2021, India had supplied critical items like hydroxy-chloroquinine, surgical masks, hand sanitizers and polypropylene material to Singapore.After a series of flights by IAF’s C-17, IL-76, C-130 aircraft, India procured 46 cryogenic or ISO containers from Singapore which were landed at Panagarh, Chennai and Hindon, Ghaziabad to enhance the liquid oxygen supplies to various destinations in India. In addition to the ISO tanks, India has procured thousands of oxygen cylinders, oxygen concentrators, BiPAP machines / ventilators and other items from Singapore. These have been ferried on IAF aircraft and Indian Navy ships.In a special gesture, Singapore sent two of its own Air Force aircraft on April 28 carrying oxygen cylinders and other material. Separately, Singapore’s Temasek Foundation, in partnership with a number of Singaporean companies, donated over 8000 oxygen concentrators, 51000 oxymeters, over 900 BiPAP machines and 27 ventilators.Joining hands with IAF, the Indian Navy played a key role in in evacuating medical supplies from Singapore by sending in amphibious warfare ship INS Airawat to Singapore. The Ship was in Singapore from May 2 to May 4 and loaded nearly 5000 oxygen cylinders of various capacities, eight ISO/cryogenic tanks, oxygen concentrators and even rapid antigen kits for supplies to South India as the virus was beginning to hit south of Vindhyachal.On May 15, landing warship INS Jalashwa is reaching Singapore bay for loading 15 filled cryogenic containers and nearly 5,000 oxygen cylinders for India to meet the expected rise in demand in east and southern India.The most encouraging part is that High Commissioner Kumaran has also been able to activate the large Indian community in Singapore, particularly the IIT, IIM alumni and TiE Singapore, as well as organizations like the Singapore Indian Chamber of Commerce and Industry and the Little India Shop Owners Association to help raise funds and assist in procuring medical support and facilitating logistics.For a country with a population of a Delhi suburb, Singapore, driven by active bilateral engagement, has turned out to be a critical lifeline to India in times of medical crisis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/singapore-extends-life-line-to-india-in-oxygen-crisis-101620960897988.html
14-05-2021||India||Eid-ul-Fitr: PM Modi greets nation, says praying for everyone's good health||Prime Minister Narendra Modi greeted the nation on the occasion of Eid-ul-Fitr and said he wished for citizens to overcome the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic soon and work towards their humanitarian goals. Eid-ul-Fitr is celebrated by Muslims across the world on the last day of the holy month of Ramzan."Best wishes on the auspicious occasion of Eid-ul-Fitr. Praying for everyone’s good health and well-being. Powered by our collective efforts, may we overcome the global pandemic and work towards furthering human welfare. Eid Mubarak!" PM Modi tweeted.Best wishes on the auspicious occasion of Eid-ul-Fitr. Praying for everyone’s good health and well-being. Powered by our collective efforts, may we overcome the global pandemic and work towards furthering human welfare. Eid Mubarak!Ramzan, the month-long fasting period, starts and ends with the sighting of the moon. It is celebrated every ninth month of the Islamic calendar. The festival was celebrated this year amid the coronavirus pandemic, with Muslims across the world observing Roza, or fasting from the time the sun rises to when it sets.President Ram Nath Kovind also wished everyone on the festival and said that everyone this year should resolve to overcome the Covid-19 crisis by following preventive guidelines and dedicate themselves to the service of humanity."Eid Mubarak to all fellow citizens! This festival is an occasion to strengthen the spirit of fraternity & rededicate ourselves to the service of humanity. Let us resolve to deal with Covid-19 by following the guidelines and to work for the well-being of the society & the country," he tweet||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/eidulfitr-pm-modi-greets-nation-says-praying-for-everyone-s-good-health-101620960855057.html
14-05-2021||India||'Farmers' protest turned a few villages into Covid-19 hotspots ': Haryana CM||Chief minister of Haryana Manohar Lal Khattar on Friday said a few villages in the state have turned into hotspots of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) because of the farmers' protests, news agency ANI reported. "A month ago, I appealed to farmer leaders to suspend their protest amid the Covid-19 spread. I told them they could resume after the situation is under control. Now it has emerged that these dharnas have made a few villages hotspots of Covid-19 as villagers travelled back and forth from the protest sites," he said.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageUrging farmers to suspend their agitation once more, he said, "In view of the Covid-19 pandemic, I once again appeal to the farmer leaders to suspend their protests. The only goal, of all of us, should be to save the lives of people in the time of this crisis. There is nothing more than human life."Haryana on Thursday recorded 12,286 fresh cases of the disease, while 16,041 recoveries were reported in the state in 24 hours. As many as 163 people died of the disease in a day, taking the total death toll in the state to 6,238 on Thursday. In view of the rising cases, the state was put under lockdown till May 17.The CM said rural areas of the state saw several Covid-19 hotspots come up recently and that the health department officials were prepping to carry out a door-to-door check-up campaign in order to curb the spread of the virus."The government will provide an insurance of ₹2 lakh if a poor person over the age of 50 dies due to the virus. The premium of Beema Yojana will be deposited by the state government in their accounts and from the same account, the amount of premium will be deducted", Khattar said, according to ANI.Farmers have been protesting since November last year against the three farm laws passed by the Centre. The controversial laws are -- Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020.(with agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-turned-a-few-villages-into-covid-19-hotspots-haryana-cm-101620954231438.html
14-05-2021||India||'Narrow politics': Harsh Vardhan on states raising Covid vaccine demand||With states complaining that they are not receiving an adequate number of vaccines, Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan on Thursday said this approach harms the holistic approach of the government and arouses narrow political passion among the masses. The remark came as the minister reviewed the Covid-19 situation with six states, including Maharashtra, Kerala, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Rajasthan and Delhi. All these states have been badly hit by the second wave of the pandemic.During the meeting, a common demand from all the states was to increase the quota of vaccines for the states. As vaccination for people in the age group of 18 to 44 years began from May 1, states have been reporting vaccine shortage as the present supply is not adequate for both the age group of above 45 years and below 45 years. Since the centre has asked states and UTs to focus on the population of 45+ as they are more vulnerable and many of them have already received one dose, states including Delhi, Maharashtra, Karnataka, Rajasthan have halted the vaccination of people below 45 years for the time being.WHO-approved Covid-19 vaccines can come to India, more than 2 billion doses to become available soon: GovtThe minister said that the production capacity of vaccines is being ramped up and the states have the non-government channel to procure vaccines for their population. While by non-government channel, he referred to the Centre's new strategy of allowing states to get vaccines directly for vaccine makers, health ministers present at the meeting requested the minister for a common policy for procurement of vaccines from foreign manufacturers.Contrary to the health minister's statement, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday said each state approaching foreign vaccine makers dents India's image in the world as states have been pitted against each other in this vaccine race where richer states and civic bodies will be ahead of others in getting foreign vaccines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/harsh-vardhan-says-states-demanding-more-covid-vaccines-will-arouse-narrow-political-passion-101620957039813.html
14-05-2021||India||Times Group chairperson Indu Jain dies of Covid-related complications at 84||Times Group chairperson Indu Jain died on Thursday due to Covid-related complications, company sources said. She was 84.Hailing her as a visionary, Times Now TV channel, part of the Times Group, described Jain as a lifelong spiritual seeker, pioneering philanthropist, distinguished patron of the arts, and passionate proponent of women's rights.She breathed her last in Delhi, the sources said.As tributes poured in for her from statesmen, captains of industry and spiritual masters, friends and admirers spoke fondly of her unquenched youthful spirit, zest for life, and determination to make the world a better place.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageAfter becoming chairman of the Times Group in 1999 she evolved a distinctive leadership style, characterised by compassion and inclusiveness, that helped propel the group to new heights.She set up The Times Foundation in 2000, with sustainable development and transformational change as its key goals. One of India's most respected non-profits, it provides community services and runs the Times Relief Fund to offer assistance during cyclones, earthquakes, floods, epidemics and other crises.She was the founder president of FICCI Ladies Organisation (FLO), established in 1983 to promote entrepreneurship and professional excellence among women in India. From 1999, she also served as chairperson of Bharatiya Jnanpith Trust, founded in 1944 by Sahu Shanti Prasad Jain, her father-in-law, to promote literature in Indian languages.The Jnanpith Award, conferred by the Trust annually, is acknowledged to be the most prestigious honour for authors writing in Indian languages.She was also the guiding force behind the Oneness Forum, launched in 2003 to promote unity in the world. The MahaviraMahatma award was instituted under the aegis of the Forum to promote Mahatma Gandhi's principle of ahimsa (non- violence)."Saddened by the demise of Times Group Chairperson Smt. Indu Jain Ji. She will be remembered for her community service initiatives, passion towards Indias progress and deep-rooted interest in our culture. I recall my interactions with her. Condolences to her family. Om Shanti," tweeted Prime Minister Narendra Modi.A lifelong philanthropist, one of her last wishes was to donate her organs. Sadly, the complications caused by coronavirus meant that the wish could not be fulfilled, the sources said.She received many honours, including the Padma Bhushan in 2016. She was conferred a Lifetime Achievement Award by the Institute of Company Secretaries of India in 2019, an award for Lifetime Contribution to Media by the All India Management Association in 2018, as well as a Lifetime Achievement Award by the Indian Congress of Women.In 2000, she also addressed the United Nations at the Millennium World Peace Summit.As chairperson of Bennett, Coleman & Co. Ltd, which owns the Times of India newspaper, she is credited with infusing new energy into the growth of India's largest media house.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/times-group-chairperson-indu-jain-dies-of-covid-related-complications-at-84-101620954368206.html
14-05-2021||India||Bengal Guv Dhankhar to visit Assam to meet post-poll violence hit people||West Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar will on Friday visit Ranpagli and Srirampur camps in Assam sheltering people from Bengal, who crossed over to the state to escape post-poll violence."WB Governor Shri Jagdeep Dhankhar will be visiting Ranpagli camp in Assam sheltering post-poll violence affected WB people. He will interact with those who have taken refuge in camp. Governor will reach Ranpagli, Assam on May 14 at 8.15 am by BSF Helicopter from Coochbehar. Governor Dhankhar would also interact with media at Ranpagli camp at 9am on May 14," Dhankhar's office tweeted.Earlier on Thursday evening, Dhankar visited Bengal's Coochbehar and interacted with the victims of post-poll violence. He was shown black flags by a group of people who also raised slogans in Sitalkuchi in Cooch Behar district."At Coochbehar. Visited several affected areas. Distressed at grim scenario. After listening to tales of sorrow no tears left in my eyes. Never imagined severity of post poll retributive violence @MamataOfficial was much beyond. One is made to pay with life and rights for voting!," Dhankhar had tweeted."People are in mortal fear of police @WBPolice and ruling dispensation workers. A dozen ruling party workers could stop my convoy, with no fear of law and police. Such state of affairs @MamataOfficial! I had to intervene finding they were determined to involve with my security," he added."All day witnessed such tales of sorrow, grief and horror as victim after victim narrated horrendous post poll retributive violence incidents @MamataOfficial. Helpless victims in crossfire of police @WBPolice and ruling party workers. Will endeavor to deliberate with CM," Dhankhar tweeted.Earlier this month, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) had alleged that nine of its party workers have been killed in the post-poll violence.The Trinamool Congress (TMC) got 213 seats against 77 by the BJP. The BJP bagged 30 of the 54 seat in Cooch Behar and other districts of north bengal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-guv-dhankhar-to-visit-assam-to-meet-post-poll-violence-hit-people-101620951779280.html
14-05-2021||India||Nagaland goes under total lockdown from Friday: Check fresh guidelines here||Amid a rise in coronavirus disease (Covid-19), Nagaland will go under total lockdown from Friday till May 21. The decision was taken by state government spokesperson on Covid-19 and minister Neiba Kronu.He said that the High Powered Committee (HPC) on coronavirus had decided to impose a state-wide total lockdown for one week starting from 6pm on May 14 till May 21.Nagaland on Thursday saw its highest single-day spike of 366 cases which took the infection count past the 17,000-mark, a health official said. With 12 more fatalities, the death toll in the state now stands at 177. A total of 12,968 patients have recovered and presently, there are 3,551 active cases in the state.State Immunisation Officer Dr Ritu Thurr said that Nagaland has so far administered a total of 2,35,281 doses of Covid-19 vaccines to 1,82,916 persons.Here are the fresh guidelines for the week-long lockdown:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nagaland-goes-under-total-lockdown-from-friday-check-fresh-guidelines-here-101620950469385.html
14-05-2021||NA||Highlights: Assam flags off India's first vaccination drive for transgenders||India on Friday recorded 343,144 fresh Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours, according to Union health ministry dashboard. As many as 4,000 new deaths were also registered. The country has so far reported a total of 24.04 million cases and 262,317 deaths. India is currently reeling under a second Covid-19 wave.The global Covid-19 disease caseload has climbed to 161,801,680 of which 3,357,598 people have died and 139,607,886 have recovered, according to worldometers.info. The United States continues to remain the worst-hit country from the pandemic with 33,623,676 cases and 598,518 deaths respectively.Cases of the new B.1.617.2 strain of Covid-19 have risen to 1,313 from 520 over the past week, Public Health England said Thursday, assessing the strain to be “at least as transmissible” as the so-called Kent variant that took hold in December, precipitating the UK’s third lockdown in January.Meanwhile, in a major step toward returning to pre-pandemic life, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in US has eased mask-wearing guidance for fully vaccinated people, allowing them to stop wearing masks outdoors in crowds and in most indoor settings.Follow all the updates here:University of New South Wales illuminates library to support Indian students in their fight against Covid-19Australia: University of New South Wales, Sydney illuminates its main library tower in support of "Indian students and friends"#COVID19 pic.twitter.com/4pg0V91jOTJapan extends Covid-19 state of emergency from 6 to 9 areas as Tokyo Olympic approachesJapan on Friday extended the Covid-19 state of emergency in the country from 6 to 9 areas, reported the Associated Press. Japanese prime minister Yoshihide Suga pledged his commitment to holding the Olympics safely even though public clamour against it has been intensifying in the country.Maharashtra records 39,923 new Covid-19 cases, 695 deathsMaharashtra on Friday reported 39,923 cases of Covid-19, taking the state-wide tally to 53,09,215. 695 deaths were also reported in the last 24 hours, the death toll now stands at 79,552.Telangana records 4,305 new Covid-19 cases, 29 deathsTelangana reports 4305 new #COVID19 cases, 6361 recoveries and 29 deaths in the last 24 hours.Total cases 5,20,709Total recoveries 4,62,981Death toll 2896Active cases 54,832 pic.twitter.com/Im5xJv7jIvTotal lockdown imposed in parts of Mizoram extended till May 24The ongoing total lockdown imposed in Aizwal and other administrative areas of Mizoram has been extended till May 24, reported ANI.Delhi reports 8,506 new Covid-19 cases, 289 deaths in last 24 hoursDelhi reports 8506 new #COVID19 cases, 14,140 recoveries and 289 deaths in the last 24 hours.Total cases 13,80,981Total recoveries 12,88,280Death toll 20,907Active cases 71,794 pic.twitter.com/bKSt7okSCpWith 8,506 new Covid-19 cases and 289 related deaths, Delhi's cases tally reached 1,380,981 and death toll climbed to 20,907, reports ANI.AAP leader Atishi says 1.23 lakh beneficiaries received jabs on May 13 in Delhi1.23 lakh beneficiaries vaccinated in Delhi on May 13: AAP leader AtishiAam Aadmi Party leader Atishi said that 1.23 lakh beneficiaries received Covid-19 vaccine jabs on May 13 in Delhi. She also said that 43.67 lakh vaccine doses have been administered so far in the national capital and over a million beneficiaries have received both doses, reports PTI.Andhra Pradesh records 22,018 new Covid-19 cases, 96 deaths in last 24 hoursAndhra Pradesh reports 22,018 new COVID-19 cases, 19,177 recoveries, and 96 deaths in last 24 hours Active cases: 2,03,787 Total recoveries: 11,75,843Death toll: 9,173 pic.twitter.com/29jztZoEJNAndhra Pradesh recorded 22,018 new Covid-19 cases and 96 deaths in the last 24 hours, taking the state's tally 1,388,803 and death toll to 9,173, reports ANI.Karnataka govt asks citizens who took Covishield first dose to take second dose only after 12 weeksCitizens are requested not to come to Vaccination centers if they have not completed 12 weeks after the first dose of Covishield vaccine. This revised time interval between 2 doses is applicable only to COVISHIELD and not to COVAXIN vaccine.The Karnataka health department asked the citizens who took the first dose of Covishield Covid-19 vaccine to appear for the second dose only after 12 weeks following the Centre's latest directive.TN's first oxygen express train from West Bengal delivers 80 MT of medical oxygenFirst oxygen express train for Tamil Nadu arrived in Chennai with about 80 metric tonnes of medical #oxygen from Durgapur, West Bengal: officialsTamil Nadu received its first oxygen express train from Durgapur in West Bengal with 80 metric tonnes of medical oxygen, reports PTI.UP sees 15,747 new Covid-19 cases, 312 deaths15,747 new coronavirus cases, 312 deaths in #UttarPradesh: health officialUttar Pradesh recorded 15,747 new Covid-19 cases and 312 deaths, reports PTI, citing a state health official.Telangana HC stays state govt order to only allow Covid-19 patients with prior hospital tie-upThe Telangana high court has stayed a state government order allowing only those Covid-19 patients from neighbouring states having a prior tie-up with a hospital.Over 179 million doses delivered in India's Covid-19 vaccination drive, says government#IndiaFightsCorona: 📍#COVID19Vaccination Status (As on 14th May, 2021, 07:00 AM)✅India's Cumulative Vaccination Coverage exceeds 17.92 Crores (17,92,98,584)✅1st Dose: 13.87 Crores (13,87,19,426)✅2nd Dose: 4.05 Crores (4,05,79,158)#LargestVaccinationDrive #StaySafe pic.twitter.com/3pWEoFwJWuMore than 179 million doses of the Covid-19 vaccine have been administered under the country's vaccination drive, according to the latest data from the government.Karnataka to float global tender soon to procure Covid-19 vaccines, says CM YediyurappaWe will get vaccines as early as possible. We are floating global tenders to procure #COVID19 vaccines soon: Karnataka CM BS Yediyurappa pic.twitter.com/uQaLviJMEEKarnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa said that the state government will soon float global tenders to procure Covid-19 vaccines, reports ANI.Telangana police stop ambulances with Covid-19 patients from AP without confirmation from hospitalsTelangana Police stops ambulances coming from Andhra Pradesh if the COVID patient they're carrying, doesn't have permission & bed confirmation from any hospital in Telangana. Visuals from Garikapadu checkpost at border of Krishna dist, Andhra Pradesh & Suryapet dist, Telangana. pic.twitter.com/j4q63aLJlvThe Telangana police stopped ambulances carrying Covid-19 patients from Andhra Pradesh who did not have confirmation from hospitals in Telangana, reports ANI.40 new cases take Covid-19 tally of Andamans to 6,510The Covid-19 caseload in Andaman and Nicobar Islands rose to 6,510 as 40 more people tested positive for the disease in the Union Territory, a health department official said on Friday.We are setting up new oxygen beds and buying oxygen cylinders: Arvind KejriwalWe are setting up new oxygen beds and buying oxygen cylinders so that when cases rise we are not found lacking: Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal.Delhi registered less than 10k Covid-19 cases in last 24 hours: Arvind KejriwalDelhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday said the national capital has registered less than 10,000 Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours. "I want to share a good news with you all. In the last 24 hours, Delhi has registered less than 10k Covid-19 cases," he added.China administered total of 366.91 million Covid-19 vaccines doses as of May 13China carried out about 12.6 million vaccinations against Covid-19 on May 13, bringing the total number of doses administered to 366.91 million, according to data released by the National Health Commission on Friday.Sputnik V vaccine (imported) to cost ₹995.40Imported Sputnik V to cost ₹995.40 per shot, doses made in India may be cheaperAbout 18 crore vaccine doses given so far in country: PM ModiPM says about 18 crore vaccine doses given so far in country; both centre, states making efforts to vaccinate all citizens.Dr Reddy's administers first dose of Sputnik V vaccine in HyderabadDr Reddy's administers first dose of Sputnik V vaccine in Hyderabad: Company statement.Centre should cap prices of all vaccines: Satyendar JainCentral govt is a partner in Covaxin's manufacturing so they can share the formula with others. Centre should cap prices of all vaccines and it should not be more than ₹150/dose... We will start vaccination for 45 yrs and above age group in govt schools soon: Delhi Health MinisterCovaxin stock has almost ended: Satyendar JainCovaxin stock has almost ended. We only have 2-3 days of stock for Covishield vaccines for 18- 44 years of age group. We can't mix already assigned centers for Covaxin and Covishield vaccines: Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain.German curbs set to ease after Covid cases fall below key levelGermany’s pandemic restrictions could ease further in the coming days after the national contagion rate fell below a key level for the first time in nearly two months.Origins of Covid-19 need to be investigated further, leading scientists sayThe origin of the novel coronavirus is still unclear and there is not yet enough evidence to say conclusively if it occurred naturally or was caused by a laboratory leak, a group of senior scientists said in a letter.‘Covid Zero’ havens find reopening harder than taming virusA smattering of places, mainly across the Asia Pacific region, have seen breathtaking victories in the battle against Covid-19 by effectively wiping it out within their borders. Now they face a fresh test: rejoining the rest of the world, which is still awash in the pathogen.Mizoram reports 201 fresh Covid-19 cases, tally rises to 8,377Mizoram reported 201 fresh Covid-19 cases, including security personnel and an infant, pushing the tally to 8,377, an official said on Friday.Singapore tightens Covid-19 curbs on social gatherings, diningSingapore announced on Friday the strictest curbs on social gatherings and public activities since easing a Covid-19 lockdown last year, amid a rise in locally acquired infections and with new coronavirus clusters forming in recent weeks.Covid-19: Australia to resume repatriation flights from IndiaAustralian Prime Minister Scott Morrison on Friday said the temporary pause on flights from India to Australia will end at May 14 midnight and facilitated commercial flights by the Australian Government will resume as promised, with a strict pre-flight testing regime.Hong Kong-Singapore travel bubble in doubt as Covid cases riseA quarantine-free travel agreement between Hong Kong and Singapore due to start on May 26 may not go ahead due to a rise in coronavirus cases in Singapore.Thane district reports 1,782 new Covid-19 cases, 70 deathsWith the addition of 1,782 new coronavirus cases, the infection count in Thane district of Maharashtra rose to 4,96,104, an official said on Friday.India logs 343,144 new Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hoursIndia on Friday registered 343,144 new Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours, taking the country's total coronavirus infection tally past the 24-million mark. 4,000 new fatalities were recorded, taking the death toll to 262,317. The country's total case count has now reached 24,046,809, according to the Union health ministry's dashboard.As many as 18,75,515 samples were tested yesterday: ICMRAs many as 31,13,24,100 samples have been tested in the country up till May 13 including 18,75,515 samples tested yesterday: Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).Germany's confirmed coronavirus cases rise by 11,336The number of confirmed coronavirus cases in Germany increased by 11,336 to 3,577,040, data from the Robert Koch Institute (RKI) for infectious diseases showed on Friday. The reported death toll rose by 190 to 85,848, the tally showed.Odisha reports 12,390 new Covid-19 casesOdisha reports 12,390 new Covid-19 cases, 8,665 recoveries and 22 deaths in the last 24 hoursTotal cases: 5,88,687Total recovered cases: 4,82,345Death toll: 2,273Active cases: 1,04,016Chinese firm's Covid-19 drug claims draw scientists' skepticismChinese biotech firm Kintor Pharmaceutical Limited [9939.HK] saw its stock price jump by more than 20% the day after it announced on April 25 that it had "completed the first patient enrollment and dosing" in a late-stage U.S. clinical trial of its experimental Covid-19 treatment.UK anxious about Indian coronavirus variant, Johnson saysBritain's government is anxious about the spread of the Covid-19 variant first detected in India and rules nothing out to tackle a sharp rise in cases of it, Prime Minister Boris Johnson said on Thursday.India should collaborate with other countries to ramp up Covid vaccine capability, says FauciDr Anthony Fauci, the Biden administration's top medical adviser on Thursday (local time) said that it is imperative for India to collaborate with other countries, and companies to ramp up its vaccine production capability to vaccinate country's huge population against Covid-19.Chinese firm's Covid-19 drug claims draw scientists' skepticismChinese biotech firm Kintor Pharmaceutical Limited [9939.HK] saw its stock price jump by more than 20% the day after it announced on April 25 that it had "completed the first patient enrollment and dosing" in a late-stage U.S. clinical trial of its experimental Covid-19 treatment.Taiwan premier says no need to raise Covid-19 alert level for nowTaiwan Premier Su Tseng-chang said on Friday that there is no need to raise the island's Covid-19 alert level for the time being and that compared with last year it has more experience and resources to fight the pandemic.Uttarakhand: All shops of Public Distribution System to open for 3 hours from today till May 18The Uttarakhand government on Thursday announced that all shops of the Public Distribution System will open for 3 hours ( i.e. from 7 am to 10 am) from May 14 till May 18.It's a great day: Biden praises US CDC's new guidelines on no mask usage for vaccinated peopleUS president Joe Biden on Wednesday (local time) praised the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention's latest guidelines on removing the requirement of masks for fully vaccinated people, but cautioned those not vaccinated to protect themselves unless they have reached the finish line.Brazil to pause production of AstraZeneca vaccine due to lack of ingredientsBrazil's Fiocruz biomedical institute said on Thursday it would interrupt production of the AstraZeneca vaccine for certain days next week due to a lack of ingredients, until new supplies arrive on May 22.Indian-Americans have been pillar of support in fight against Covid-19: Ambassador SandhuIndian-Americans have been a pillar of support for India in its fight against Covid-19, Ambassador Taranjit Singh Sandhu said.Qatar sends consignment of medical supplies to IndiaQatar on Thursday sent a consignment of medical supplies including 200 oxygen concentrators, 40 ventilators and 4,300 Remdesivir vials to India as the latter reels from a devastating Covid-19 crisis.Special flight from South Korea carrying medical aid arrives at Delhi airportA special flight from South Korea carrying medical aid arrived at the Delhi airport.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-india-world-latest-news-covid-19-death-toll-may-14-2021-101620949242917.html
14-05-2021||India||IMD warns of cyclone, Kerala districts on alert||A low pressure area has formed over southeast Arabian Sea and adjoining Lakshadweep area on Thursday and is likely to intensify into cyclonic storm ‘Tauktae’, which may bring heavy rainfall in Kerala, ghat areas of Tamil Nadu and Karnataka, Lakshadweep and coastal Gujarat, India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Thursday. Authorities in Kerala have sounded red alert in three districts on May 14 and five districts on May 15.“We cannot rule out intensification similar to Super Cyclone Amphan. At present it is difficult to say which category of intensification the cyclone will reach. But conditions are extremely favourable for its rapid intensification. Ocean heat potential is above normal; sea surface temperatures are 1-2 degree C above normal and Madden Julian Oscillation (MJO) is also favouring rapid intensification. We should be prepared,” said Sunitha Devi, in-charge of cyclones at India Meteorological Department.Authorities have sounded red alert in three districts of Kerala on May 14 and five districts on May 15, indicating the possibility of extremely heavy rains under the influence of a low pressure area over the Arabian Sea.In a tweet, Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan asked authorities and people to follow the guidelines issued by the state disaster management authority.“Red Alert! 14 May - Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Pathanamthitta, 15 May - Malappuram, Kozhikode, Wayanad, Kannur, Kasargod. Follow guidelines issued by @KeralaSDMA”, Vijayan tweeted,.By Saturday, the well-marked low-pressure area is likely to concentrate into a depression over the same region and intensify into a cyclone during the subsequent 24 hours, the IMD said. It is very likely to intensify further and move north north-westwards towards Gujarat and adjoining Pakistan coasts and reach near Gujarat coast around May 18 evening.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/imd-warns-of-cyclone-kerala-districts-on-alert-101620949464987.html
14-05-2021||India||UCMS teachers want martyr status and aid for staff who died of Covid-19||The teachers’ association of the University College of Medical Sciences (UCMS) has written to chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, requesting him to provide solatium and “martyr status” to health care workers who lost their lives to Covid-19.According to the teachers’ association, in the past week, three health care workers, including a 26-year-old junior resident doctor Anas Mujahid, have succumbed to the virus at the UCMS’s Guru Teg Bahadur (GTB) Hospital.“University College of Medical Sciences and GTB Hospital lost three health-care professionals to Covid in a week during this Corona crisis: Gayatri Sharma (ANM, community medicine), G Ajay Kumar (EMO, GTBH), and 26-year-old Dr Anas Mujahid (junior resident). It is our state’s highest responsibility to honour, respect, and recognize their extraordinary effort and sacrifice,” the teachers said in the letter sent on Wednesday.The teachers’ body has written a similar letter to the UCMS administration.Despite several attempts, UCMS principal Anil K Jain did not respond to calls and texts seeking comments.The teachers’ body also appealed to the Delhi government and UCMS administration to provide an inclusive solatium and martyr status to these health-care workers.“Even though no amount can fill the void in the families affected by this loss, it would be our gesture that we stand with them and it will also motivate our health-care workers,” the letter said.Mujahid, 26, died on Sunday, within hours of testing positive for Covid-19. The young doctor’s colleagues have also been demanding financial compensation for his family.Mujahid was deployed in GTB hospital’s department of gynaecology.A Delhi government spokesperson declined to comment on the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ucms-teachers-want-martyr-status-and-aid-for-staff-who-died-of-covid19-101620948857774.html
14-05-2021||India||Delhi HC slams ‘irritating’ vaccine dialer tune||The Delhi high court on Thursday criticised a caller tune public service message put in place by the Centre asking people to get vaccinated, with the court labelling it “irritating” and questioning its purpose when states were reportedly short of jabs.“You have been playing that one irritating message on the phone whenever one makes a call, for we do not know how long, that you (people) should get vaccinated, when you (Centre) don’t have enough vaccines.“You are not vaccinating people, but you still say that vaccination lagavaiye [get vaccinated]. Kaun lagayega vaccination [Who will get vaccinated], when there is no vaccine? What is the point of the message,” observed a bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli.“You should give it [the vaccine] to everyone. Even if you are going to take money, give it. That is what even children are saying,” the bench said and added that the government needs to be “innovative” in such things.The court said that the government should prepare more such messages instead of preparing just one and running it always.The bench said the government, whether at the state or the Centre, have to react to the situation on the ground.It also suggested using TV anchors or producers to create programmes, on making people aware about use of oxygen concentrators and cylinders or on vaccination. It also said celebrities may be asked to chip in, and that moves like these “need to be made soon”.The court said a lot of “publicity and propaganda” was put in place last year, on the importance of hand-washing and mask-wearing. It said there should be similar initiatives on the use of oxygen, concentrators, medication, and others.“We are losing time. There should be a sense of urgency,” the bench said, and directed the Centre and Delhi government to file their reports by May 18 on steps they are going to take to disseminate information on Covid-19 management through the print and TV media, as well as dialer tunes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-hc-slams-irritating-vaccine-dialer-tune-101620948523722.html
14-05-2021||India||High court rejects plea alleging food minister hussain was hoarding oxygen stock||The Delhi high court on Thursday disposed of a plea which claimed that state food and civil supplies minister Imran Hussain was hoarding oxygen, after the Delhi government submitted before the court that he was not provided the life saving gas by the state or from the quota allocated for Covid-19 patients.Amicus curiae and senior advocate Rajshekhar Rao told the court that the explanation tendered by Hussain that he got cylinders refilled from a dealer in Faridabad “appears to be credible”.In view of the submissions, a bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli disposed of the plea. The petitioner, Vedansh Sharma, had alleged that Hussain was hoarding oxygen cylinders at a time when the city was in the midst of a crisis due to the short supply of oxygen.“We are not inclined to proceed any further in the matter,” the bench said.Hussain, MLA from Ballimaran, tweeted, “I was serving the people of my constituency by distributing free oxygen. Some people did not like it and levelled baseless allegations against me. Today, the honourable court has acquitted me. I will continue to serve people like this.”The submissions were made in response to the high court’s query to the Delhi government on May 10 as to whether the MLA was supplied oxygen by the state or through the designated refillers from the allocated quota.Senior advocate Rahul Mehra, appearing for the Delhi government, said due to the instant plea the reputation of Hussain, who is Delhi’s food and civil supplies minister, was adversely affected and all the good work he did was brought to nought.Mehra said it also deters the individual from doing any such work for the benefit of the people in the future and therefore, people filing such pleas without allegedly doing proper research has to be discouraged.He also questioned why such pleas were being filed only against one political party.The court, however, did not agree with Mehra’s contention as it said it was not going to stop people from coming to court.The court said it did not ask the MLA to stop distribution of oxygen, if he was not taking it from the quota allotted to Delhi.“He stopped it on his own,” the bench said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/high-court-rejects-plea-alleging-food-minister-hussain-was-hoarding-oxygen-stock-101620948357178.html
14-05-2021||India||Centre, NCR states must ensure food, transport for migrants: SC||Urging administrations to acknowledge the “harsh realities” facing migrant workers affected by the second wave of Covid-19, the Supreme Court on Thursday directed the Centre and the governments of Delhi, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh to provide dry ration and meals to labourers in the National Capital Region (NCR), apart from ensuring proper transportation back home.A bench of justices Ashok Bhushan and MR Shah issued the interim directives while seeking detailed replies from the state governments on steps being taken to ameliorate the misery of the stranded migrant workers.Starting immediately, the bench ordered that dry ration should be given to migrant workers in the NCR under Atmanirbhar Bharat scheme, or any other scheme be provided by the Centre or states utilising the public distribution system.“While providing dry ration, the authorities of the states shall not insist on an identity card for those migrant labourers who do not possess it for the time being. On self-declaration made by the stranded migrant labourers, dry ration be given to them,” it said.In order to make certain that the migrant workers and their families get at least two meals a day, the court directed the governments of Delhi, UP and Haryana to open community kitchens and advertise this.The bench asked the states to ensure that adequate transport is provided to stranded migrant labourers who wanted to return to their home. “The district administration, in coordination with police, may identify such stranded migrant labourers and facilitate their transport either by road transport or train. The Union of India may also issue necessary instructions to the Ministry of Railways...” it further directed.The migrant worker crisis came under sharp focus shortly after the nationwide lockdown was imposed on March 25 last year. Hundreds of thousands of workers spilled out on highways and began walking back home. In Parliament last year, the government said estimates put this number at around 11 million while activists say the number is much higher.The court order came on a plea moved jointly by activists Harsh Mander, Anjali Bhardwaj and Jagdeep Chhokar, who sought the court’s intervention to ensure that migrant workers were not deprived of food security and were also able to travel back to their homes at nominal cost.Solicitor general (SG) Tushar Mehta, representing the Centre, expressed his reservations to the idea of facilitating their travel, apprehending that this could incentivise their migration even though most of the industrial activities were open across the states. “Unlike the previous lockdown when everything was closed, efforts of all state governments this time is to ensure it is not a lockdown... By and large industrial activities where migrants are working have not stopped completely. All state governments are also responsible governments and are elected ones,” said Mehta.The bench, however, said that migrant workers may have their own apprehensions. “The mindset of the people is different. How will they survive if they don’t have money or food? Some sustenance must be provided by the states? Ration and community kitchen should be there. You have to consider the harsh realities,” it told the SG.Mehta, on his part, said that the court should wait for replies from the states to scrutinise the steps taken by them before passing any order. But the bench said that it would issue immediate directions for migrant workers in Delhi-NCR, while other states such as Maharashtra, Gujarat and Bihar can file their replies within 10 days.Advocate Prashant Bhushan, appearing for the activists, said he was amazed at the Centre’s law officer’s resistance to the interim directions in the interest of the migrant workers. “Last time they said there is nobody on the road. This time they are opposing orders to ensure they get food and transportation,” contended Bhushan. His reference is to court proceedings last year during which Mehta claimed that no migrants were on the roads, walking back home or trying to find any other mode of transport during the 68-day hard lockdown.The bench, while fixing May 24 as the next date to hear the suo motu case on the problems of migrant workers, also asked Delhi, Haryana, UP, Gujarat, Maharashtra, Bihar and Odisha to file their affidavits on the issues of food security and health insurance for migrant workers as well as their employment opportunities in the native states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-ncr-states-must-ensure-food-transport-for-migrants-sc-101620945849883.html
14-05-2021||India||Centre asks SC to review order on state’s role in defining OBCs||The Union government on Thursday moved the Supreme Court for a reconsideration of its May 5 judgment, which ruled that after a constitutional amendment in 2018, state governments have no power to draw up their own lists of backward classes.By a 3-2 majority, the verdict -- which also unanimously struck down a state law granting reservation to the Maratha community in government jobs and education in Maharashtra -- had held that state governments must rely on the Centre to include or exclude any community for granting reservation to socially and educationally backward classes (SEBCs).In its review petition, the Centre has contended that the judgment required a relook because there were errors apparent on the face of the record.Since a review petition is usually decided by the judges in their chambers under the Supreme Court rules, the central government has asked for an open court hearing so as to be able to make oral submissions on the grounds of review.A statement by the Union ministry of social justice and empowerment said: “The Constitution Bench of the Hon’ble Supreme Court has pronounced judgement dated May 5, 2021, involving interpretation of the provisions of the Constitution 102nd Amendment Act, 2018. As provided in the Supreme Court Rules, 2013, a review petition has been filed by the Union of India on May 13, 2021.”In its May 5 judgment, the five-judge bench had interpreted the 102nd constitutional amendment, whereby provisions were inserted to give constitutional status to the National Commission for Backward Classes (Article 338B) and for empowering the President to notify the list of socially and educationally backward classes of state or Union territory (Article 342A).While justices Ashok Bhushan and SA Nazeer maintained that the amendment act was confined to the list to be issued for central government jobs, justices L Nageswara Rao, Hemant Gupta and S Ravindra Bhat held that the scheme of the amendments has taken away the power of the state to identify backward classes.The majority dismissed the Centre’s understanding of the amendments even as attorney general (A-G) KK Venugopal told the court that the 102nd amendment did not deprive state legislatures to enact law determining the SEBCs and conferring benefits on them.According to the top law officer, Articles 15(4) and 16(4) of the Constitution were untouched by the insertion of Article 342 and that the states will continue to exercise their power to identify SEBCs and give reservation even after the amendments.Several states, including Maharashtra, Punjab, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu and Karnataka, also asserted their right under Articles 15(4) and 16(4) to make special provisions for SEBCs and give them benefits of quota.Both the Centre and states urged the court to lend credence to the parliamentary select committee report of 2017 and a statement of Union minister Thawarchand Gehlot on the floor of Parliament in August 2017 that the amendments did not affect the rights of the state governments to notify backward classes for reservation.But the majority judgment rejected this plea. “I am convinced that there is no reason to depart from the text which is in clear terms and rely upon the legislative history to construe Article 342 A contrary to the language...”Stating that the states could only make suggestions with the President having the exclusive authority to notify the list of SEBCs, justice Bhat added that once the list was notified, states could exercise their power under Article 15(4) and 16(4) to decide on extent of reservations, the kind of benefits, the quantum of scholarships, etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-asks-sc-to-review-order-on-state-s-role-in-defining-obcs-101620939385872.html
14-05-2021||India||Take second Covishield jab after 12-16 weeks: Govt||Indians who take the first dose of Covishield should wait between 12-16 weeks before taking the second shot, the Union government said on Thursday, approving a new set of recommendations from a technical expert group that will help give the first doses to more people and is consistent with studies that suggest a longer interval may offer better efficacy.The doubling of the gap between doses from 6-8 weeks to 12-16 applies only to the Covishield dose, with the suggested interval for Covaxin remaining at 4-6 weeks. At least 90% of the doses administered in India are of Covishield, the made-in-India version of the Oxford University-AstraZeneca vaccine, according to the Co-WIN dashboard data as on Thursday.“Based on the available real life evidence, particularly from the UK, the Covid-19 Working Group agreed for increasing the dosing interval to 12-16 weeks between two doses of Covishield vaccine. No change in interval of Covaxin vaccine doses was recommended,” said a statement by the government.The statement added that the suggestion was accepted by the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 (NEGVAC), headed by Niti Aayog member VK Paul, in its meeting on May 12, and finally by the Union health ministry.“The earlier recommendation for a gap of 4-6 weeks was based on data available at the time. As more data became available, it was seen that increasing the duration helps,” Paul said at the government’s weekly press briefing on the Covid-10 situation on Thursday.“Now, this decision is based on periodic reviews and on what we have seen as the real-life experience in UK where millions have taken the dose. The data was closely analysed and WHO experts were consulted, so we can be confident about the science around this decision,” he added.On March 23, the government expanded the second dose interval to 6-8 weeks from the 4-6 week initially announced for Covishield.According to officials aware of the matter, who asked not to be named, the government’s expert committees are also deliberating upon questions on if pregnant women or lactating mothers can be given coronavirus vaccines, and whether people who recovered from an infection should wait at least six months before they get a dose.At present, pregnant or nursing mothers are not included in the list of people eligible for vaccines in India.Several countries have also deliberated on these questions and some have clear policies. The UK’s Joint Committee on Vaccination and Immunisation (JCVI) has recommended that the second dose of the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine be given up to 12 weeks after the first. The European Medicines Agency too recommends a 12 week gap at most, although Spain expanded it to 16 weeks in late April.Click here for complete Covid-19 coverageMost western expert groups, however, do not suggest a particular embargo for when Covid-recovered people should take a vaccine, as long as they no longer have symptoms of the disease or if they were given some particular treatment during their disease.“If you were treated for Covid-19 with monoclonal antibodies or convalescent plasma, you should wait 90 days before getting a Covid-19 vaccine. Talk to your doctor if you are unsure what treatments you received or if you have more questions about getting a Covid-19 vaccine,” says the US Centers for Disease Control (CDC) in its explainer on Covid-19 vaccination.Paul denied when asked by reporters if the decision was made to primarily help ease the supply crunch since many states are recording a rush for vaccines, especially since adults below the age of 45 became eligible from May 1.According to Paul, India has a projected production capacity for the approved vaccines at 73 million for the month, which on average is adequate for just around 2.5 million vaccinations a day -- lower than the peak rate of 4.2 million recorded by the country in early April. Several states have stopped vaccinations and shut down centres due to a lack of doses.“Please have faith in our scientific processes. The National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (NTAGI) is a body of individuals of high integrity. And this body does not only look at Covid-19 vaccinations, it also reviews the entire immunisation process in the country. It has been active from much earlier, and functions purely on the basis of scientific evidence before it,” he added.Dr Balram Bhargava, director general, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), and secretary, department of health research, also said that among key questions that the experts were dealing with in this pandemic was when to give the second vaccine dose.“There has been a lot of scientific deliberation on the matter, and much of it is still underway. The Covid-19 working group has already met some four times to discuss this and other issues. The meetings also had developers of Covishield from Oxford and they presented latest data,” he said.The recommendations for a longer dosing gap comes from a Phase 3 trial data set released in February after studies of the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine conducted in Brazil, South Africa and UK found efficacy increased to 82.4% when the second shot was given at 12 weeks or more. Between 6-8 weeks of having been given the second dose, the efficacy was found to be 59.9%.“It is a good move to extend the gap as there is quality data from UK to suggest that the neutralising ability of the antibodies increased significantly when gap was increased. The second dose works like a booster shot. Giving a time gap, however, is not suitable for a vaccine that is an inactivated whole virion vaccine,” said Dr NK Mehra, immunology and immunogenetics expert, who was formerly a senior faculty and dean at New Delhi’s All India Institute of Medical Sciences.Dr Gagandeep Kang, one of country’s top vaccinologists, said “Canada’s committee also decided on 4 months as trials showed continued good/improved response after 12 weeks.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/take-second-covishield-jab-after-12-16-weeks-govt-101620938342084.html
14-05-2021||India||15 more die at Goa hospital after drop in oxygen levels||Fifteen patients at state-run Goa Medical College and Hospital died allegedly of oxygen shortage early on Thursday despite high court directives to shore up supplies, barely two days after 26 people succumbed to low oxygen flow at the state’s premier hospital.Oxygen levels dropped between 2am and 6am on Thursday morning and 15 people lost their lives, hospital authorities told the Bombay high court at Goa, a day after the judges asked the government to do whatever it takes to ensure no deaths occur due to oxygen shortages for “at least one night”.“Around 15 people lost their lives last night between 2am and 6am at GMC the hours during which the oxygen levels have been dropping for every night for the last five days or so,” the hospital told the court via Advocate General Devidas Pangam.On Tuesday, 26 patients being treated for Covid 19 died between 2am and 6am with Goa health minister Vishwajit Rane saying the hospital got only a third of the 1,200 oxygen cylinders required and pushing for a probe by the high court.Oxygen shortages were reported in multiple wards of the GMC that are set aside for treating Covid patients on Wednesday night with the situation being a repeat of the previous four days when oxygen also ran out.“Despite raising SOSes, police and health dept officials reaching GMC in the wee hours of the night after the alarm of oxygen fluctuations in the central pipeline was raised, 15 people died last night. Again,” tweeted Shruti Chaturvedi, one of the petitioners.Medical college dean Dr Shivanand Bandekar said not all the deaths could be attributed to dropping oxygen pressure. The dean had earlier admitted to shortages and said that shortages could also claim patient’s lives in the long term.“Reduced oxygen saturation lasting for a significant duration causes tissue hypoxia and irreversible tissue damage. This is worse in the presence of comorbidities and old age. The death following such hypoxemia and organ hypoxia may be immediate, or most of the time after some period of time,” he said.Critical patients will be shifted out of wards witnessing low oxygen pressure and moved to a newly commissioned block where the supply is steady, he added.The health department told the court that oxygen levels dropped because of “logistical issues involved in maneuvering the tractor that carries the trolleys of oxygen and in connecting the cylinders to the manifold”.“During this process there was some interruption, which resulted in fall of pressure in the supply lines of oxygen to the patients. Basically on account of these factors some casualties may have taken place,” the advocate general told the court.The oxygen shortage at the premier hospital signals a fresh crisis for the coastal state where every second person tested for Covid is found positive this week. The state posted 2,491 fresh cases and 63 deaths on Thursday.GMC, which that is handling more patients than its bed capacity, delivers oxygen in two ways -- 700 regular beds are supplied through a central pipeline, and 250 additional beds set up during the pandemic are tended to by loose cylinders that need to be replaced and refilled. Bandekar told the court on Wednesday the hospital was facing a shortage of 6.5 metric tonne (MT) of oxygen per day, and that supply was not being augmented.On Wednesday, the high court warned the hospital authorities and state government, saying the right to life was a fundamental right guaranteed by Article 21 of the Constitution, which placed a duty on the State to ensure that life was not extinguished on account of its inability to supply oxygen. . “This duty can neither be avoided by pleading helplessness nor by putting forth logistical difficulties in sourcing and supplying oxygen,” the court said.For five straight days, oxygen pressure has dropped at the hospital during the same early morning hour, which the court now begun to refer to as ‘dark hours.’On Thursday, relatives of patients raised an alarm as soon as oxygen levels started falling, and the police and health department staff were called in to try and rectify the issue. But it was several hours before the supply was stablised, leaving those admitted facing potential organ damage that could have lasting effects even if they recover.Relatives complained that the pressure was running low for several days and patients were left to fend for themselves. “My sister Laura Fernandes is admitted in GMC hospital, Goa with severe pneumonia. She has been admitted on May 7, She is fighting for her life, while her two young kids are waiting for their mother to come home. The first few nights at the hospital were frightening as the oxygen ran low at night and patients were dying during this time,” Christine Fernandes said.“We got a cylinder from then on May 11, but no doctors were willing to help fix it. My brother in law went home on May 12, got his tools and fixed the cylinder by himself,” she added.A police complaint was filed against Rane, accusing him of culpable homicide not amounting to murder for failing to ensure adequate supply of oxygen to the state’s premier institute. “Goa’s oxygen shortage is man-made and the brain child of Vishwajit Rane and the supplier,” the complaint filed by Bento Lorena, also a member of the Bharatiya Janata Party, said. Rane also belongs to BJP, which rules the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/15-more-die-at-goa-hospital-after-drop-in-oxygen-levels-101620934072024.html
14-05-2021||India||CSI annual retreat: Two more Kerala priests die of Covid||Thiruvananthapuram: Two more Christian priests, who had tested positive for Covid-19 after attending the Church of South India (CSI) annual retreat in Munnar (Idukki district) from April 13-17, died on Wednesday while condition of five others were critical, church insiders told HT on Thursday. Father C Binokumar (39) and Father Y Devaprasad (59) died in CSI Medical College Hospital in Karakonam and five others are on ventilator support, a church insider said. With the two deaths, the toll from those attending the annual retreat jumped to four. Police registered a case against 400-odd priests, including CSI South Kerala Diocese Bishop Father Dharmaraj Rasalam, on May 5 for allegedly flouting Covid-19 protocols to organise a religious retreat in hill station Munnar.The case was registered after the Devikulam Sub-Collector submitted a report that permission was not sought for the large gathering and norms were flouted, which triggered a super-spread. The incident surfaced after two priests died of Covid-19 in May first week and more than 100 participants reportedly tested positive. Some of the reformist groups in the church alleged that a section of priests was forced to attend the retreat after church authorities threatened them. There were many attempts to hush up the case and most of the infected were shifted to a medical college run by the church along the Kerala-Tamil Nadu border discreetly, they alleged. The case was registered under Section 269 of the Indian Penal Code and sections of the Kerala Epidemic Diseases Control Act after a senior revenue official inquired the incident and found that more than 450 people, majority of them priests, attended the meet while flouting pandemic norms. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan had termed the incident “unfortunate.” The incident came to light at a time when the state is battling the surging second wave of the pandemic. Kerala reported 39,955 cases on Thursday, taking the active caseload to 438, 913. A total of 97 people succumbed to the infection on Thursday, taking the toll in the state to 6,150, according to health department data. Church insiders said all restrictions were flouted and when some young priests questioned the timing of the retreat, they were threatened with disciplinary action by authorities. However, the church maintained that all precautions were taken and only 28 priests and not 100 had tested positive. The CSI retreat is the latest religious event to hit the headlines for recklessness during the pandemic. Last year, at the beginning of the first wave, a congregation of the Tablighi Jamaat in New Delhi caused a spike in cases. Similarly, last month’s congregation at the Kumbh Mela also contributed to spike in cases in many north Indian states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/csi-annual-retreat-two-more-kerala-priests-die-of-covid-101620934012477.html
14-05-2021||India||TN all-party meeting resolve to intensify on-going lockdown||Chennai: An all-party meeting led by chief minister M K Stalin on Thursday evening passed a unanimous resolution to intensify the on-going lockdown in Tamil Nadu on a day that the state reported 30,608 new cases taking the active caseload to 1,83,722. Number of deaths are also rising with 297 patients succumbing to the virus on Thursday. The state went into a full lockdown from May 10 which will go on until May 24 to bring down rising cases in the second wave of Covid-19. Essential like groceries are allowed until 12 noon and restaurants can function only for take aways and delivery executives are permitted. All other activities had been halted and marriages and funerals were allowed with specific number of people. The specifics of how it will be further intensified is yet to be released by the government. “Officials will meet tonight to decide on the the aspects to intensify the lockdown and make an announcement,” health minister M Subramanian told reporters after the meeting. A total of five resolutions were adopted at the meeting. An advisory committee which would comprise of representatives of all legislature parties in the state to make recommendations on control measures, all parties would extend their cooperation for relief work, all political parties have agreed to stop organising public meetings and political events and to set an example by adhering to the Covid-19 norms.In the meeting which went on for almost three hours at the state secretariat, Stalin said that relaxations in the lockdown were announced only to ensure that livelihoods aren’t affected but people were using this as loopholes to violate lockdown norms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tn-all-party-meeting-resolve-to-intensify-on-going-lockdown-101620933891985.html
14-05-2021||India||Infant among four killed in Andhra Pradesh road accident||Hyderabad: Four people, including a four-month-old infant, died on the spot while five others sustained injuries, after a container truck rammed into the car in which they were travelling in Andhra Pradesh’s East Godavari district in the early hours of Thursday, police said. According to Peddapuram sub-inspector of police A Balaji, the incident happened in front of Ruchi Soya Factory on the outskirts of Peddapuram town on Kakinada-Samalkot state highway. He said the family of nine were going in a sports utility vehicle from Peddavalasa village of Tallarevu block to Rajahmundry to attend a house warming ceremony. “As the car was crossing the industrial area on the outskirts of Peddapuram town, a speeding container truck coming from the opposite direction rammed into the SUV. Four persons including a five-month-old baby, a woman and two men died on the spot,” Balaji said. The deceased have been identified as, Vanamadi Eshwar Rao (36), Vanamadi Annapurna (33), Aradadi Swamy (55) and a four-month-old baby (name not known). Five others, including the person driving the car, were injured in the mishap.Though a partial lockdown is in place in Andhra Pradesh till May 18, however, there is no restrictions on travel between 6am till 12 noon. According to the SI, the accident took place at around 4.30 am, but the family had not taken any curfew pass. “They might have thought they could reach the destination before they were noticed by the police,” he said. The locals, who immediately informed the police, rescued the injured who were trapped inside the vehicle. “Three of them were taken to Peddapuram area hospital and two others were taken to Kakinada government hospital,” the SI said. The Peddapuram police, who arrested the truck driver, registered a case under sections 337 and 304 (A) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). Further investigation is on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/infant-among-four-killed-in-andhra-pradesh-road-accident-101620933831982.html
14-05-2021||India||MLC elections in Andhra pradesh and Telangana postponed due to pandemic||Hyderabad The Election Commission of India on Thursday announced indefinite postponement of biennial elections to the state legislative councils of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana, scheduled to be held this month, due to the ongoing second wave of Covid-19 pandemic. According to an official release from the ECI, the term of three members of Andhra Pradesh state legislative council and that of six members of Telangana state legislative council would expire on May 31 and June 3 respectively. The elections to these MLC seats will be held under the MLA’s quota. As such, they will be elected by the members of respective state legislative assemblies. As per the provisions of Section 16 of the Representation of the People Act, 1951, the elections to these MLC seats have to be held before the expiry of the term of sitting members. The EC said it had reviewed the matter and decided that due to outbreak of the second wave of Covid-19, it would not be appropriate to hold biennial election to the Legislative Councils of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana respectively till the pandemic situation significantly improves. “The Commission will take a decision in the matter at appropriate time after taking inputs from the states concerned and assessing the pandemic situation from mandated authorities like National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) and State Disaster Management Authority (SDMA),” the EC official note said. In Andhra Pradesh, three MLCs who would be completing their term on May 31 are legislative council chairman Mohd Ahmed Sharif (Telugu Desam Party), Devasani Chinan Govind Reddy (YSR Congress) and Somu Veerraju (Bharatiya Janata Party). In Telangana, the outgoing members of the legislative council are legislative council chairman Gutha Sukhender Reddy, deputy chairman Neti Vidyasagar, Kadiyam Srihari, Akula Lalitha and Bodakunti Venkateshwarlu (all Telangana Rashtra Samithi). Since both the YSR Congress and the Telangana Rashtra Samithi have more than the required number of MLAs in the Andhra and Telangana assemblies respectively, the new members can get elected without any contest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mlc-elections-in-andhra-pradesh-and-telangana-postponed-due-to-pandemic-101620933771951.html
14-05-2021||India||Centre’s vaccine allocation to TN should not be diverted: HC||Chennai The Madras high court on Thursday said that the Centre’s allocation to Tamil Nadu on vaccines should not be diverted because of the state’s decision a day back to call for a global tender. During the hearing on the suo motu case registered to monitor preparedness of Covid-19 second wave in Tamil Nadu and Puducherry, a division bench comprising Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy observed that a global tender may be a long drawn process. “As and when the global tender matures and supplies are received, the state’s allocation by the Centre may be appropriately reworked,” the court said. The court reiterated its suggestions from a day back that vaccine centres be relocated from hospitals to minimise the spread of the virus. The court recorded that the Centre has increased oxygen supply to the state to 510 MT per day but the supply of 40 MT from Palakkad in Kerala to southern and western districts in Tamil Nadu may have been halted from Thursday. Additional Solicitor General (ASG) R Sankaranarayanan informed the court that additional oxygen supply would come from Orissa by Thursday night to make up for the loss. “Overall there doesn’t appear to be a great dearth of oxygen in the state at the moment,” the court said. “By and large things appear to be under control and nothing untoward has thankfully been reported on account of lack of oxygen or the like.”But during the hearing, an advocate Naveen Kumar Murthi alleged that at least nine patients have died waiting in ambulances at Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH) in Chennai. Advocate General R Shunmughasundaram appearing for the state explained that the government hospital doesn’t deny admissions and everyone is being monitored and that the state would address the situation. Measures are being adopted to increase the beds across the state, he added. The bench suggested that stretchers can be placed in corridors as a temporary measure if beds are unavailable. It pointed out that if ambulances are used to treat patients, other patients may not be able to avail ambulance facilities. “This is a war-like situation,” the court said.On the issue of vaccines to be made available for people with disabilities, the court hoped to get a better picture of the prospects of getting more vaccines before it can issue directions for prioritisation. The court also asked for immediate steps to be taken to accelerate vaccination by increasing awareness, particularly in non urban areas to prevent a large number of cases in the future. As there is a scramble for the drug Remdesivir in Chennai where people are waiting in serpentine queues and some are waiting overnight, the AG submitted that counters from Kilpauk Medical College will be shifted to the city’s Nehru indoor stadium. At least 20,000 vials will be sold in a day, the AG added. The next hearing has been adjourned to Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centres-vaccine-allocation-to-tn-should-not-be-diverted-hc-101620933711980.html
14-05-2021||India||Vijayan writes to PM seeking O2 urgently||Thiruvananthapuram: With the Covid-19 situation deteriorating in the state, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Thursday wrote another letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking additional 300 metric tonne of medical oxygen on an urgent basis. This is the third letter Vijayan has written to the PM in 10 days. “We have a capacity to generate 212 MT daily but experts said oxygen demand will rise to 426 MT in view of rising cases. Besides this, a low pressure is also forming fast in Arabian Sea and it is likely to take cyclonic proportions. So we have to get prepared,” he said. Red alert was sounded in five districts in view of a cyclonic threat.The state on Thursday reported another high recording 39,955 cases with a test positivity rate (TPR) of 28.61%. Two districts Ernakulam (32%) and Malappuram (38%) have reported TPR above 30% while in some of the local bodies in these districts, TPR is above 50%, health ministry data shows.As active caseload mounted, the government has given directions to all district administrations to build makeshift hospital to meet the influx of patients. They have been asked to take the help of state and central public sector units in their districts. Many schools, colleges, hostels and stadiums have been turned into temporary hospital to meet the surge.In one of the worst –affected districts in Ernakulam, the country’s largest temporary Covid-19 hospital is coming up in Ambalavayal in Kochi having 1,500 beds and direct oxygen supply from nearby Bharat Petroleum Corporation of Limited (BPCL) plant. Ernakulam district collector S Suhas said the first phase of the hospital with 500 beds has been opened to patients and it will be fully functional by next week.“We deliberately chose the place for the makeshift hospital because of the proximity with the BPCL plant. We will have direct oxygen supply from the plant and it will save enough time in transportation and logistics,” said the collector. In several parts of the country delay in supply of oxygen cylinders and technical glitches resulted in many deaths. “We are fighting hard to contain the surge. But this new hospital, largest with 1,500 oxygen beds, will be a game changer. We can contain fatality rate considerably in the district,” he said. The BPCL has the capacity to deliver 2 MT medical oxygen daily and it can be raised after gauging the need. The district administration has also appointed 400 nurses and other medical workers for the new hospital.“The high TPR is a concern but we are doing our best to bring down numbers. Cases are increasing due to presence of strong mutants and we are trying to improve the recovery rate to control the influx,” a senior health official said, adding that only serious patients who need oxygen will be admitted in the new hospital in Ambalavayal. A commercial hub Kochi has a sizeable population of workers from other states, especially from the north east.A close look at the health ministry data shows in last two weeks there has been a steady rise in cases and fatality rate. On Thursday, 1,39, 656 people were tested out of which 39,955 tested Covid positive. The state also reported 97 deaths taking total fatality to 6,150. The active caseload also jumped to 4,38,913. Among 14 districts, TPR in 10 districts is above 20%. The state is currently undergoing a lockdown till May 16 and it is likely to be extended.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vijayan-writes-to-pm-seeking-o2-urgently-101620933651909.html
14-05-2021||India||Dr Shetty to head K’taka task force to tackle Covid-19||Bengaluru: The Karnataka government on Thursday announced the name of cardiac surgeon Dr Devi Shetty as the head of the task force set up to help prepare the state for the potential third wave of Covid-19. The announcement was made by chief minister BS Yediyurappa, who added that Gagan Deep Kang, Professor of Microbiology in Christian Medical College will be appointed as an adviser on the state’s vaccination strategy. Talking about the vaccine strategy the CM’s office on Thursday said that Karnataka is preparing to procure 50 million doses for the age group of 18-44 years. “The state has placed a purchase order for 30 million doses of vaccines, 20 million doses of Covishield and 10 million doses of Covaxin. We are floating global tenders for an additional 20 million,” read a statement from the CM’s office. It further added that 1.48 million beneficiaries have completed 6 weeks after taking the Covishield vaccine and are eligible for the second dose and 5,10,000 beneficiaries have completed 4 weeks after taking the first dose of Covaxin and are eligible for 2nd dose. Thus, a total of 1.97 million persons are eligible for 2nd dose as of today. “It is necessary to complete the second dose as early as possible to give full protection to the people who have taken 1st dose. Hence, we have decided to utilize the entire stock available with us for the 2nd dose of the eligible beneficiaries,” read the statement. In this context, the government also added that the CoWin application also was found to have certain limitations on where one chooses to be vaccinated leading to chaos across centres. “To better manage the vaccination process, we are coming up with a technology solution soon; post which we will re-launch the vaccination programme for the 18-44 age group,” said the CM’s office. The statement added that the government is tackling the increased Oxygen requirement through a 3-pronged strategy of increasing Supply of Liquid Medical Oxygen (LMO), massive scaling of localized generation capacity through oxygen generators, large scale procurement of concentrators and cylinders. “Government of India has increased the allocation of oxygen from 965 MT to 1,015 MT. We are lifting the entire allocation given to us from within the state and making efforts to bring as much as possible from the other States. In addition, we have received 40 MT of oxygen from Bahrain and another 100 MT from Kuwait. We have brought 120 MT of oxygen from Jamshedpur by train,” the statement added. Meanwhile, the SSLC examinations slated to start from June 21 stands postponed announced primary and secondary education minister S Suresh Kumar. The increasing Covid cases in the state coupled with the concerns of parent-students and many school associations has resulted in this decision. A suitable call will be taken after the second wave of Covid -19 dies down, the minister said in a statement. He also emphasised that the revised dates will be announced much ahead of schedule. The minister appealed that the students must not get disheartened and continue with their studious preparations.State’s death toll due to Covid-19 touched 20,712 with 344 new fatalities on Thursday, while 35,297 fresh cases took the infection count to 20,88,488, the health department said. The state has 5,93,078 active cases. Bengaluru Urban district reported 15,191 new cases and 161 fatalities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dr-shetty-to-head-k-taka-task-force-to-tackle-covid19-101620933472471.html
14-05-2021||India||Karnataka HC pulls up govt over shortage of Covid jabs||Bengaluru: The Karnataka high court on Thursday raised concerns over the shortage of Covid-19 vaccines in the state and delay in administering the second dose of vaccine. The bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Oka and Justice Aravind Kumar said that the state has only 1.1 million vaccines, while there was a need to provide the second dose to 3.1 million people. “How are you going to bridge the gap?” the bench asked Additional Solicitor General of India (ASG) Aishwarya Bhati. It went on to question the government on the consequences of missing the second dose. If someone takes a second dose of Covaxin after 4 weeks and Covishield, after 8 weeks, what will happen? Is it not the right of a person under Article 21 to get the second dose in a timely manner? the bench asked. In response, ASG said the stipulated period is the ideal period. Over the ideal period, the vaccine can be taken “A core group is studying and in two days they will give us a report,” Bhati said. In response, the bench said: “These are all excuses giving to us. You tell us how you will bridge the gap. Is it not necessary that maximum people should get immunity?” The ASG told the bench that states have been advised to prioritise vaccination for those above 45 years of age receiving the second dose and that 70% of vaccines allotted by the Union government must be dedicated for this purpose. “You must come clean before the members of the public... Come with the truth... Some people are going to vaccination centres and coming back. You need to set a priority on who will get vaccines now,” the bench said. “Your ministers and others should tell the truth to people... Tell the truth to the public, don’t make any inconsistent statements to the public. Put up the data of available vaccines on some website,” it further added. The Karnataka government on Wednesday had temporarily suspended the vaccination drive for the 18-44 age group. In another order, the bench asked all testing laboratories in the state to issue Covid test results within 24 hours of collecting swab samples. The direction was issued after a court staff member died on Wednesday. The staffer was unaware he had Covid; the results of his tests conducted on May 10 didn’t arrive until his death. “We direct the state to initiate action against those concerned and submit a report,” said the Bench.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-hc-pulls-up-govt-over-shortage-of-covid-jabs-101620933412024.html
14-05-2021||India||B’luru crematoriums feel the heat as Covid deaths rise||Bengaluru: As Bengaluru continues to report more than 250 deaths every day for the past week, crematoriums in the city are feeling the heat. At one such crematorium in Chamarapet, putting “houseful” board outside its gates last week was a sign of the troubles ahead. Bengaluru has seven designated electric crematoriums for Covid-19 fatalities, six electric crematoriums for both Covid and non-Covid deaths, and three open-air crematoriums. However, as of Thursday, three electric crematoriums were non-functional after their furnaces broke down. The gravity of the situation could be gauged from the fact that the Bengaluru city administration has now converted an unused quarry in Geddanahalli into an open crematorium. A senior Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) official, who did not wish to be named, said the sustained high number of cases is putting severe pressure on the crematoriums. “Now, we are reporting around 250 Covid deaths per day (over the last week) and one day we reported even more than 300 deaths. Before this, when the city was reporting around 100 deaths per day, the pressure on the furnaces was high. Now they have started to break down due to high number of deaths. If there is no drastic reduction in numbers, it would lead to more breakdowns,” said the official. He added that Sumanahalli electric crematorium, which is one of the largest facilities in the city for the last rites of Covid-19 victims, was shut for maintenance after the nonstop burning of bodies resulted in equipment damage. After repairs, the crematorium was reopened on Tuesday. By then, three more crematoriums -- JJR Nagar, Banashankari and Wilson Garden – went for repair. As per BBMP estimates, they would be reopened only by May 20. “The average number of cremations that can be done at the crematoriums was around 10. In the last week of April, we were cremating 20-25 bodies per day. Now, it has gone up to 30 or more per day. When any machine is pushed beyond its limits, it will break down,” said Vinod P, a supervisor at Summanhalli crematorium. Meanwhile, the Karnataka government is looking at creating more open cremation grounds to address the issue. So far, four open crematoriums have been opened in TR Mills, Tavarekere, Guddanahalli and Anekal. A long-unused burial ground in Tavarekere has also been designated for Covid-19 burials, while a granite quarry in Geddanahalli was recently converted into a cremation ground. The new cremation facility at Geddanahalli, about 25 km from the city centre, has been receiving between 30 and 40 bodies from Bengaluru every day, officials said. According to officials, work at Tavarekere and Geddanahalli crematoriums was briefly halted on Monday and Wednesday due to rains. Following the disruption, hearse vans were diverted to other crematoriums. A temporary roof has now been erected at Tavarekere. Meanwhile, the BBMP is finding it difficult to open new places for cremations because of the lack of human resources. An official in the BBMP told Hindustan Times that those employed at the newly created open cremation grounds have no prior experience in the job. They perform the duties with the help of some volunteers, he added. Rajesh, a crematorium worker, said they are already getting 30-35 bodies per day at TR Mills. “Our work starts around 7 am and it goes on till late night, there is no one to take over from us. We can’t even take a break,” he said. Karnataka’s revenue minister R Ashoka said on Wednesday that a dedicated helpline would be set up to address issues related to the last rites of Covid-19 victims. There have been several complaints about delays at crematoriums and hassles faced by distraught families and volunteers assisting them. Bengaluru has been recording high number of casualties due to Covid-19 in the past few weeks. On Saturday, Bengaluru reported 285 Covi-19 fatalities, which increased to 374, the highest daily toll in 15 months of the pandemic, on Monday. On Wednesday, 275 deaths were reported in Bengaluru.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bluru-crematoriums-feel-the-heat-as-covid-deaths-rise-101620933292620.html
14-05-2021||India||BJP issues ‘fact sheet’ to refute Oppn charges||New Delhi : The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Thursday issued a “fact sheet” to counter the Oppositions’s allegations about the government’s handling of the Covid-19 crisis, including a sluggish vaccination policy and other systemic health care deficiencies. The fact sheet, shared on social media platforms, was a step-by-step attempt to refute some of the charges.On the allegation that the Modi government did not see the second wave of cases coming, for example, the document said that the PM, in a meeting with chief ministers on March 17, alerted states about a second wave coming, and asked them to take quick steps before it gets too late. It similarly attempt to counter narratives on differential pricing of vaccines for states and the Centre, deaths being under-reported, inaccurate government data, money being spent on the Central Vista project amid the pandemic, and that it would take 2-3 years to vaccinate the entire population at the current rate.“The Central Vista is a project that costs ₹20,000 crore over several years. In contrast, the vaccination budget in just 2021–22 is Rs35,000 crore and the health budget of the country in just the same period is over ₹2 lakh crore,” the fact sheet said.It also pointed to comparisons between how well New Zealand handled the crisis, by pointing out that it has less people than Bengaluru, and that India’s population is more than that of Europe and North Korea combined.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-issues-fact-sheet-to-refute-oppn-charges-101620932391885.html
14-05-2021||India||Even virus has right to live: Ex-CM Rawat||Amid rise in the number of Covid-19 cases and deaths in the state and country, Uttarakhand’s former chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat has drawn flak from Opposition and experts for his remark, “Covid-19 virus has a right to live.”“If we talk philosophically, then Covid-19 virus is also a living organism which wants to live and has a right to live just like humans. However, we consider ourselves more intelligent than any other living organism. We are now after it and want to escape, the virus is changing its form constantly,” he said while giving interview to a local news channel here.“Hence, we now have to keep distance from it. It is also moving and we are also moving, but we have to move fast than it so that it gets left behind,” he further said.The video clip of the interview was widely shared on social media after which Opposition parties Congress and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) attacked him for an “irresponsible and foolish” statement when “lakhs have died due to the virus.”Congress state vice-president Suryakant Dhasmana said, “What Rawat, who was state’s CM, said, is nothing but foolish and nonsense. He has no vision because of which he was replaced abruptly by his party. “The virus is a living organism, so was Ravana, Kansa and Mahishasura. But they all were killed by different gods because they were destroying the world just like this virus who has killed lakhs of humans on this planet and needs to be killed. Rawat is just uttering sheer nonsense.”Trivendra Singh Rawat was replaced by the party leadership in March this year. The Lok Sabha MP from Garhwal and former state BJP chief, Tirath SIngh Rawat succeeded Trivendra Singh Rawat, as the new state CM. AAP state spokesperson Amarjeet Singh Rana while condemning Rawat said, “It is ridiculous that he was once the CM of this state. This shows his and BJP leaders’ wisdom. They are making Uttarakhand a laughing stock.”The BJP meanwhile, accused Congress and AAP of indulging in blame game than working for humanity in the pandemic.Party media in-charge Manveer Singh Chauhan said, “Congress is just playing a dirty blame-game and sees everything in negative even in this pandemic. While the AAP is doing this just for cheap publicity as it has no political presence in the state. Both of them should rather indulge in serving the humanity.”On Rawat calling the virus a living organism, Uttarakhand state secretary of Indian Medical Association (IMA) Dr Ajay Khanna said, “Covid-19 virus is a living organism. But it’s killing people.”Another IMA office bearer, on condition of anonymity however, condemned Rawat on saying that Covid has a right to live.“It is really unfortunate for this country that when dead bodies are increasing every day in this country, a leader like Rawat who has been the CM of Uttarakhand is saying that Covid-19 virus is a living organism and has a right to live. It is just shameful and insult to all those who lost their lives to this lethal virus,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/even-virus-has-right-to-live-ex-cm-rawat-101620932331889.html
14-05-2021||India||Action being taken on GOM communication report, says Govt||The government is working on recommendations made by the working Group of Ministers on communication (GOM) formed last year to improve the centre’s media outreach strategy, the ministry of Information and Broadcasting said in response to a Right to Information (RTI) application filed by Hindustan Times.“Action taken on the GOM report is still continuing,” the RTI response said, adding that “it maybe premature to disclose the details as it would serve no public interest.”Hindustan Times, which reviewed the GOM report, on December 8 reported that the Union government was working on a strategy to overhaul its media and public outreach, with a group of ministers (GoM) comprising nine Union ministers recommending a focus on 10 key areas as well as detailing ways in which criticism could be addressed and positive messaging can be spread wider.“The final deliberations of the GOM will have to be cleared by the Cabinet,” a senior government official said on condition of anonymity.The recommendations also focused on social media discourse, saying there is a need to constantly track 50 “negative influencers”, and to engage with 50 “positive influencers” to put the “government’s view point in the right perspective.”The RTI filed by HT seeking details on the action taken by the GOM was disposed by the First Appellate Authority citing section 8 1 (I) of the RTI Act, 2005. The section refers to cabinet papers including records of deliberations of the Council of Ministers, Secretaries and other officers: “ Provided that the decisions of Council of Ministers, the reasons thereof, and the material on the basis of which the decisions were taken shall be made public after the decision has been taken, and the matter is complete, or over: Provided further that those matters which come under the exemptions specified in this section shall not be disclosed,” it states.The GoM comprises Cabinet ministers Ravi Shankar Prasad, Smriti Irani, Prakash Javadekar, S Jaishankar, Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi, and ministers of state Kiren Rijiju, Hardeep Singh Puri, Anurag Thakur and Babul Supriyo.The group made its first presentation to the Prime Minister, who guided the GoM with his insights and gave vital inputs, the December report noted.“After detailed deliberations, it was decided to identify 10 big narratives of the Government. These narratives are reflective of the good work / initiatives taken by the Government for the welfare of the people. It was agreed to identify the strategies that can be adopted to take these messages to the people and to suggest the specific action points by which it can be done,” the GOM report said.The 10 areas identified were: India at 75; plans to make the country a $5 trillion economy; initiatives under Aatmanirbhar Bharat; the overall Sabka Saath, Sabha Vikar, Sabha Vishwas philosophy of the government; Digital India; the Swach Bharat, Swasth Bharat campaign; welfare schemes for women; Skill India; the focus on sustainable development; and the projection of the country’s soft power.The report attracted criticism from the opposition. CPM chief Sitaram Yechury earlier this year said: “So much focus on managing headlines, spin and PR, all this in the middle of a global pandemic, record and growing unemployment and economic collapse.”The report also included recomendations made by the members of the GOM . Anurag Thakur suggested that “right-wing parties of other countries need to be roped in so that some common ground could be found”.Aviation minister Hardeep Puri said “we are in confrontation situation with political interest and commercially-backed interests” and emphasised the “strong need to deal with the international media and shape the global narrative”.Union minister for minority affairs Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi Proposed to identify a “strategy to neutralise people who are writing against the government without facts and set false narratives/ spread fake news.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-working-on-gom-plan-to-improve-media-outreach-to-tackle-criticism-101620932213147.html
14-05-2021||India||Bihar extends lockdown till May 25, test positivity rate dips to 8.9%||The Bihar government on Thursday extended the lockdown for another 10 days, from May 16 till May 25, after reviewing the positive impact that the lockdown had on the state between May 5 and May 15. An announcement to this effect was made by chief minister Nitish Kumar through social media platform Twitter. “Reviewed the ongoing lockdown in Bihar with ministerial colleagues and officials. We can see that the lockdown is having a positive impact. Therefore, we have decided to extend the lockdown in the state for 10 days, from May 16-25, 2021,” a rough translation of Kumar’s tweet, posted in Hindi, read. On May 4, the Crisis Management Group of the Bihar government had decided to impose a lockdown in the state, from May 5-15, amid a rise in daily Covid-19 cases. “The lockdown is showing desired results. After taking the opinion of the district magistrates, it was decided by the Crisis Management Group to extend the lockdown for 10 more days till May 25,” said chief secretary Tripurari Sharan. According to a Bihar health department bulletin on May 13, the state recorded 7,752 positive cases on Wednesday, the reports of which came on Thursday. “During this period, the state government has modified its earlier order by advancing the timings for opening different shops. Now the shops selling milk, vegetables, non-vegetarian items and other essential commodities will open from 6 am till 10 am in urban areas and from 8 am till 12 noon in rural areas,” said additional chief secretary (home) Chaitanya Prasad. Earlier, these shops were opening from 7 am till 11 am. The government has also revised the number of guests for marriages from 50 to 20 only. “All other restrictions enforced earlier will remain in place,” said Prasad. The 11-day lockdown has brought some relief for the Bihar government which was facing all-round flak following shortage of beds in hospitals, irregular oxygen supply, shortage of medicines, exorbitant prices being charged by ambulances, etc. “The positivity rate which stood at 15.7% on May 2 has come down to 8.9% on May 12,” said additional chief secretary (health) Pratyaya Amrit. Similarly, there has been a steady fall in the number of positive cases – from 14,436 on May 4 to 7,752 on May 12 while the recovery rate has also improved from 78.38% on May 5 to 83.43% on May 12. According to the health department sources, in the last one week, the number of new infections has grown by an average of 2.1% every day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-extends-lockdown-till-may-25-test-positivity-rate-dips-to-89-101620932212641.html
14-05-2021||India||EC forms core panel to identify ‘shortcomings’ after state polls||The Election Commission of India on Thursday set up a core committee headed by secretary general Umesh Sinha to identify the “learnings and shortcomings” from the poll experience of Bihar, Assam, West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Puducherry, where polls were held amid the Covid-19 pandemic, in a bid to push for electoral reforms.“DECs of the ECI and CEOs of recent poll gone States, and few select Special Observers and Observers will be members of the Committee. While finalising its recommendations, the Committee will also take inputs from State Nodal Officers of different divisions like Police, Expenditure, Health authorities as well as from some DEOs, SPs & ROs identified by CEOs, Polling officials, BLOs about the issues and challenges faced at the grass root levels,” the commission said in a press release.HT learns that one reform that the commission contemplated was with reference to tackling “sensationalisation” of health issues that can become a sympathy factor in the polls, but it remained in the draft stage.The core committee set up by on Thursday will look into the “shortcomings /gaps in ECI regulatory regime”, if any, at the level of the chief electoral officer or district officials. It will explore the possibility of strengthening the legal framework to ensure compliance of guidelines. The committee will submit its report within a month.The committee will also identify “shortcomings in existing framework in providing protection to electoral machinery from possibility of reprisal after elections”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ec-forms-core-panel-to-identify-shortcomings-after-state-polls-101620932151878.html
14-05-2021||India||NRC coordinator moves SC for list re-verification||Assam National Register of Citizens (NRC) coordinator Hitesh Dev Sarma has approached the Supreme Court seeking a “comprehensive and time-bound” re-verification of the draft citizenship list released two years ago, citing major irregularities in the controversial process that excluded 1.9 million people.In his application, Sarma claimed several thousand ineligible people were included in the draft NRC while other genuine applicants were left out. The plea came days after Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said his government will push for partial re-verification of the citizens list.“Several serious, fundamental and substantial errors have crept into the whole process of updating the NRC in Assam. This has vitiated the entire exercise and the present draft and the supplementary list for inclusion & exclusion of NRC that has been published is not free from errors,” stated Sarma’s plea.The Supreme Court is yet to fix a date of hearing for this plea.The NRC was first conducted in 1951 and the process of updating it began after decades of agitation in 2015, monitored by the apex court. Citizens were required to show that they or their ancestors were present in Assam before March 24, 1971, the day war broke out in neighbouring Bangladesh and sent droves of refugees into Assam. The cut-off date was related to the Assam Accord of 1985 that marked the end of a six-year-long violent movement against illegal immigrants. The draft NRC published in July 2018 excluded roughly four million people and the final list in August 2019 left out around 1.9 million people.Almost immediately, controversy broke out as rights activists alleged many poor and marginalised people were discriminated against due to lack of citizenship papers, spelling mistakes or difficulty in understanding the complex process. The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party also rejected the list, saying it excluded genuine citizens.In his plea, Sarma said office and field verification of applications could not detect manipulated or manufactured secondary documents, and were also unable to detect if the names were entered fraudulently in the electoral roll. He said the preparation of a correct and error-free NRC was integral to national security and the process was being closely monitored by the top court itself, therefore it was necessary to apprise the court of anomalies that occurred during the NRC updation process and seek remedial action.The application sought re-verification under the supervision of a monitoring committee, preferably represented by district judge, district magistrate and superintendent of police.Sarma said out of the 393,975 people who didn’t contest their exclusion in the July 2018 draft NRC, about 50,695 were later found to be eligible for inclusion. “This figure may increase if detail re-verification is done. For a flawless and complete NRC, names of these persons have to be included in the final NRC, failing which the final NRC will lose its acceptability,” the plea added.Previous applications in the top court for re-verification of NRC haven’t been successful.In July 2019, the top court rejected the Centre and the Assam government’s prayer for a sample re-verification. The Centre had asked the apex court to allow verification of 20% random samples of citizens. But the court referred to the then state coordinator’s report to say that a re-verification of 27% had already been done.On Monday, the CM said that the state government would seek 20% re-verification of the list in districts bordering Bangladesh and 10% re-verification in other districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nrc-coordinator-moves-sc-for-list-reverification-101620931971861.html
14-05-2021||India||Kalra denied pre-arrest bail in O2 devices case, moves HC||A Delhi court on Thursday refused to grant protection from arrest to businessman Navneet Kalra, who has been charged with hoarding oxygen concentrators and selling them at inflated prices, saying his custodial interrogation was required to unearth the entire alleged conspiracy, and that, if released, he may jump bail or tamper with evidence.Later in the day, Kalra approached the Delhi high court challenging the trial court decision. A single judge bench of justice Subramonium Prasad heard senior advocate Abhishek Manu Singhvi appearing for Kalra and posted the matter for further hearing on Friday.The order came a day after four other co-accused obtained regular bail from the court of the chief metropolitan magistrate who said that the offence being established by the police was unclear.While Kalra has allegedly been on the run since the recovery of 524 oxygen concentrators from three of his restaurants – Khan Chacha, Town Hall and Nege & Ju – and from the office of Matrix Cellular last week, the police arrested five people, including the manager of Nege & Ju restaurant, Hitesh, and four senior officials of Matrix Cellular – Gourav Khanna, the chief executive officer (CEO), Gaurav, who is the business head, Sathish Sethi, the manager, and Vikrant, a sales executive in the company. Khanna was the last person to be arrested from Gurugram on Friday.A city court granted bail to Khanna, Gaurav and Vikrant and Sethi on Wednesday.Kalra, who operates optical stores and restaurants, approached the trial court claiming that he was doing business with a company Matrix Cellular (International) Services Limited in supplying oxygen concentrators to the needy affected by Covid-19 pandemic. He questioned the charge of cheating (IPC Section 420) invoked against him when there was no complaint made against him by any purchaser.Kalra also challenged charges under the Essential Commodities Act and the Epidemic Act for selling oxygen concentrators above its maximum retail price (MRP), saying till the time the police registered the case on May 5 against him and four others, there was no cap or ceiling price fixed for the concentrators by the Union or state governments. It was only on May 7, 2021 that the Drugs and Control Department of the Delhi government issued an order restricting sale of medical devices over and above the MRP, Kalra said in his anticipatory bail plea.Additional sessions judge Sandeep Garg rejected Kalra’s plea and said, “The accused persons have hatched a deep-rooted conspiracy to gain wrongfully, using the painfully pathetic situation caused due to the pandemic and compelled the needy persons to part with their hard-earned money much in excess of the acceptable international market rates of oxygen concentrators.”The judge noted that the concentrators were kept at three restaurants where Kalra held substantial stake, and each device was allegedly being sold at a price of about ₹70,000.The remarks made by the ASJ Garg rejecting Kalra’s pre-arrest bail stand in contrast to the bail order passed on Wednesday by chief metropolitan magistrate Arun Kumar Garg while releasing on bail the other four co-accused.The CMM noted in his order that “not even a prima facie case under IPC Section 420” was made out against the accused. The prosecution alleged Kalra to be the prime accused along with Matrix Cellular for cheating public at large by claiming that the products were of German technology and they provided 90% oxygen flow for use by two persons. However, the devices were Chinese products that could deliver an efficiency of 32%, the prosecution said.While the CMM held this to be a case of “breach of contract” and not cheating, ASJ Garg found substance in the same and said, “The allegations levelled against the applicant/accused are serious i.e. he made fraudulent representation to the effect that he was selling premium portable oxygen concentrators, manufactured with German collaboration, which were sufficient to meet requirement of two persons.”Even with regard to the charges under the Essential Commodities Act, Kalra was accused of selling the oxygen concentrators at “exorbitant” prices without informing the authorities about the MRPs pasted over the boxes containing the oxygen concentrators.On the other hand, the CMM order of Wednesday punched holes into the police probe. Referring to the provisions contained in the FIR - Section 3 and 7 of the Essential Commodities (EC) Act, the CMM said that the said provisions were “invoked in the FIR without the investigating officer (IO) being sure about existence of any such notification (capping price of oxygen concentrators).”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kalra-denied-pre-arrest-bail-moves-high-court-101620931912460.html
14-05-2021||India||Delhi short of Covid-19 jab stocks for ages 45+, says state govt||Coronavirus vaccine doses for those older than the age of 44, supplied by the Union government, are running low and could run out over the next 2-3 days, Delhi government officials said on Thursday, a day after they raised concerns of limited supply for the under-45 age group.Delhi has 290,690 doses of vaccines left for the 45 and above age group —146,690 of Covaxin, which will likely last three days, and 144,000 of Covishield, which will likely last two days.“Until recently, we had a shortage of vaccines for those aged between 18-44. But now, we are also facing a shortage for the 45+ category. I request the central government to urgently provide us with adequate doses, because now there’s scarcity of stocks for both age groups,” said Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) legislator Atishi during the government’s live-streamed vaccine bulletin on Thursday evening.She said replenishing vaccine stocks for the 45+ category is crucial because many of them have their second dose scheduled in the next few days. “In Delhi, we have a number of people in the priority age group (45 and above) who have already taken their first dose. It is important that the Centre immediately sends us doses because if these beneficiaries are not given their second dose in time, then the first dose given to them will be wasted,” said Atishi.Neither Serum Institute of India (SII), which manufactures Covishield, nor Bharat Biotech, which makes Covaxin, responded to requests for comment.The Centre on Thursday recommended doubling the gap between Covishield doses from 6-8 weeks to 12-16. The suggested interval for Covaxin remains 4-6 weeks.The Union government, in an affidavit to the Supreme Court on Sunday, said it will deliver 496,930 doses to Delhi in the first fortnight of May as part of its campaign for the 45-and-above age group.For the younger age group, only Covishield doses are available in the Capital, government data showed, and these stocks are likely to last for eight days. For the second straight day, Delhi on Thursday continued its immunisation programme with no stocks of Covaxin.Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain said there has been no communication from the two manufacturers on when more stocks will arrive.“Around 100 vaccination sites that were giving Covaxin jabs to the 18-44 population are now temporarily shut. Yesterday [on Wednesday], we announced that Bharat Biotech has expressed its inability to give us additional doses of Covaxin. After that, we are still to find out when fresh doses will come. We will inform people as soon as we get the doses, whether from the Centre or the manufacturers,” said Jain.Union health ministry spokespersons did not respond to requests for comment.According to data, Delhi has so far received around 817,690 vaccine doses – 150,000 Covaxin and 667,690 Covishield – for the 18-44 age group. Of these, as on Thursday evening, 390,410 doses were in stock —380,020 of Covishield and 10,390 of Covaxin.VACCINATION CENTRES FOR 45+ ALSO TO BE SHIFTED TO SCHOOLSWith nearly 100 vaccination centres being removed from the Co-WIN portal due to shortage of Covaxin, the pressure appears to have spilled over to the other centres. Taking cognisance of complaints of crowding, Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Thursday reviewed the administration’s vaccination management system and directed walk-in vaccinations be restarted for those aged 45 and above.“I have directed officials to ensure walk-in vaccinations for those aged above 45, as there’s a large section that finds online registrations difficult. Also, many were finding it difficult to book slots, so this step will help,” he said.Walk-in vaccination for the 45+ age group in Delhi was halted for 3-4 weeks, a senior government official said.Sisodia also said that vaccination centres for this bracket will also be shifted to Delhi government schools. On Wednesday, the state health department issued an order asking all district magistrates (DMs) to shift the vaccination drive for 45+category to schools and create an additional 186 vaccination centres, with about 10 vaccination sites at each.According to Thursday’s bulletin, Delhi vaccinated 74,654 people in the past 24 hours. Atishi said the number was lower than other days because on Wednesday government dispensaries and hospitals do not give Covid-19 vaccines as they immunise children with other routine vaccines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-short-of-jab-stocks-for-ages-45-says-state-govt-101620931911844.html
14-05-2021||India||All-party meet in Tamil Nadu decides to intensify lockdown to curb Covid-19 spread||An all-party meeting led by chief minister M K Stalin on Thursday evening passed an unanimous resolution to intensify the on-going lockdown in Tamil Nadu on a day that the state reported 30,608 new cases taking the active caseload to 1,83,722. The number of deaths has also been rising with 297 patients succumbing to the virus on Thursday. Tamil Nadu went under full lockdown from May 10 which will go on until May 24 to bring down the rising cases in the second wave of Covid-19. Essentials like groceries are allowed until 12 noon and restaurants can function only for takeaways and delivery executives are permitted. All other activities have been stopped and marriages and funerals are allowed with only a specific number of people. The specifics of how it will be further intensified are yet to be released by the government. “Officials will meet tonight to decide on the aspects to intensify the lockdown and make an announcement,” health minister M Subramanian told reporters after the meeting. A total of five resolutions were adopted at the meeting. An advisory committee which would comprise of representatives of all legislature parties in the state to make recommendations on control measures, all parties would extend their cooperation for relief work; all political parties have agreed to stop organising public meetings and political events and to set an example by adhering to Covid-19 norms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/allparty-meet-in-tamil-nadu-decides-to-intensify-lockdown-to-curb-covid-19-spread-101620931492352.html
14-05-2021||India||6 firms attend UP meet on import of vaccines||Six vaccine manufacturers attended a pre-bid meeting convened by Uttar Pradesh on Wednesday to discuss procurement of 40 million Covid-19 jabs, a top state official said on Thursday, adding that the process of floating a global tender was likely to begin in 15 days.Navneet Sehgal, additional chief secretary (information) in the UP government, said the meeting was attended by Dr Reddy’s Laboratories, Zydus Cadila, Pfizer, Serum Institute of India (SII), Bharat Biotech, and an unnamed Korean company.Dr Reddy's is marketing the Sputnik V vaccine in India , Zydus Cadila is developing a Covid-19 vaccine, Pfizer has a popular nRNA vaccine currently used across the world, SII manufacturers Covishield -- the name under which which the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine is marketed in India -- that is the mainstay of the country’s inoculation programme, and Bharat Biotech makes Covaxin, the other vaccine used in India’s drive.India has so far administered 179 million doses of Covishield and Covaxin. It has granted approval to Sputnik V and has indicated that it will fast-track approval for the Pfizer shot. Imported doses of Sputnik will start being available in India next week, and local production is expected to start in July. Zydus Cadila’s vaccine candidate is under development.“We expect to float the global tender in about 15 days. We are also making contact with Moderna and Johnson & Johnson,” Sehgal said, alluding to the two other companies whose vaccines have been approved in different countries.HT reported on Wednesday that Tamil Nadu was the 11th state to opt for global tenders to get vaccines, even as officials in states said it wasn’t clear by when they would receive doses. While states have freedom to float global tenders for acquiring Covid-19 vaccines from any drug manufacturer, they cannot inoculate their citizens with vaccines that have not been approved by the Union government. Several states have asked the Union government to set up a central procurement of vaccine to have the weight of sovereign behind them in negotiating better terms with global vaccine produces.To be sure, the Centre has said that vaccines approved elsewhere will be approved in India under certain conditions.After the Centre on April 19 decided to launch the “liberalised and accelerated” third phase of the national immunisation programme to cover the 18-44 age group from May 1, several states such as Uttar Pradesh, Odisha, Delhi, Karnataka, Telangana, Bihar and Maharashtra initiated the procurement process of vaccines. The April 19 decision allowed vaccine manufacturers in India to supply 50% of monthly output to states (allocated on the basis of the size of the eligible population in the state) and private hospitals after keeping 50% of doses for the Centre.In its tender norms, the UP government is likely to specify that the temperature for the storage of the vaccine should be 2-8 degrees Celsius, said additional chief secretary (health and family welfare) Amit Mohan Prasad.“The bidders have been told that the state government requires six million to eight million doses of vaccine to be supplied every month. The supply has to be initiated within seven days of the release of the purchase order and completed within 30 days. The bidder should have their own coldchain transporting system or should have proper contract with a transporting agent having the facilities to transport the vaccines under cold chain norms from the manufacturing unit to the government warehouses in Varanasi, Meerut, Lucknow, Agra, Gorakhpur, Kanpur, Jhansi, Bareilly and Faizabad (Ayodhya),” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/6-firms-attend-up-meet-on-import-of-vaccines-101620931251794.html
14-05-2021||India||Now, Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh halt inoculation for 18+ citing vaccine shortage||Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh on Thursday announced that they were suspending vaccinatons of people in the 18-44 age group, due to non-availability of Covid-19 vaccines, following the example of Karnataka and Maharashtra.With Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech, the two Indian companies providing vaccines to the government, not able to meet the growing demand for vaccines, as many as 12 states have decided to float global tenders to buy vaccines.“We are suspending vaccination till we get vaccines from Serum Institute,” said a Rajasthan government official, adding that the state expects to resume vaccination from Saturday if the vaccines arrive.The state has around 200,000 vaccines meant for those over 45 years of age. The official added that these would likely be used up on Thursday and that the state would wait for more vaccines from the Centre. Rajasthan has so far vaccinated 14.6 million people (3.3 million have received both shots and 11.6 million one shot). This includes 5,63,122 people in the 18-44 years age group who have received one dose of the vaccine.The state has ordered 30.75 million vaccines from the Serum Institute of India, of which 650,000 have been delivered. The state has also ordered around 300,000 vaccines of Covaxin from Bharat Botech. Rajasthan has decided to float a global tender to procure 10 million vaccines.The Union government provides states with free vaccines for those over the age of 45 and frontline workers. States have to make their own arrangements for vaccines for the 18-45 years age group, though the Centre works with vaccine manufacturers to decide how many vaccines each state is eligible for.A Chhattisgarh government official said vaccination in the 18-44 age group for Above Poverty Line (APL) people was stopped in Raipur due to unavailability of vaccines. “Vaccination is going on for other categories such as poor and frontline workers across the state,” said state immunisation officer, Dr Amar Singh Thakur. Health minister TS Singhdeo expressed confidence of getting vaccines soon to continue vaccination drive. West Bengal which started vaccination for the 18 - 44 segment on Tuesday in select districts may have to suspend the inoculation if vaccines don’t arrive in the next two days, officials said.Some states such as Goa, Himachal and Bihar are yet to start vaccination drive for 18-44 age group. Himachal Pradesh plans to start vaccinating people in this segment from May 17 with chief minister Jai Ram Thakur saying that the state has received first consignment of 1.07 lakh doses from the Serum Institute of India (SII) on Wednesday. Tripura on Thursday started vaccinations for people in the 18-44 age group.Both Telangana and Andhra Pradesh have not started vaccnating people in this segment -- something that was supposed to begin from May 1. While Andhra Pradesh has stopped administering first doses to people over the age of 45 -- it wants to prioritise second doses -- Telangana has been giving both first and second doses to those above the age of 45 years. Both the governments have clarified that they will start vaccinations for the 18-44 years age group only after the completion of second dose of vaccination for those over the age of 45 years.Madhya Pradesh immunization officer Santosh Shukla said, “Madhya Pradesh has about 3 lakh vaccines for the 18-44 years age group and within three days, we will receive 9 lakhs more. We started the vaccination of 18 + four days late because we wanted to have enough stock .”The Uttar Pradesh government, which has opened vaccinations for the 18-44 age group in 18 of the state’s 75 districts, said it would start vaccinations in more districts once tit receives five lakh vaccine doses by Friday. “We have enough vaccine doses to run the drive,” said state Health and Family Welfare minister, Jai Pratap Singh.Punjab, which is left with only 60,000 jabs for the 18-44 age group, is not contemplating a suspension of the drive, said Health Minister Balbir Sidhu. The state has ordered 3 million doses of Covieshield from Serum Institute of India (SII) and is expecting 2.5 lakh doses between May 15 and 25. Odisha and Assam do not plan to suspend vaccination for the 18-44 age group, as both states have enough stocks.The Maharashtra government on Wednesday decided to temporarily suspend the vaccination drive for the 18-44 years category and divert the vaccines that it purchased for that age group to provide second doses for those above 45, state health minister Rajesh Tope said.(With inputs from state bureaus)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/now-raj-and-chhattisgarh-halt-inoculation-for-18-citing-vaccine-shortage-101620931191761.html
14-05-2021||India||Over 2 billion vaccines to be available by Dec: Centre||India will likely have access to at least two billion doses of coronavirus vaccines, a top government official said on Thursday, listing out several vaccines in development and projected enhancements in manufacturing capacity by the end of 2021.The data presented by Niti Aayog member VK Paul, however, included eight vaccines of which only three have been approved in the country, and cited production enhancements that are beyond current estimates. Experts also said that for these doses to be available, the government will need to place purchase orders.“The emerging scene in terms of vaccine supplies shows that we are largely dependent on two vaccines, even though Sputnik V vaccine has also been added to the basket. According to the production plan that we asked some of the companies to draw for us for a period between August and December this year, we get a provisional figure of 216 crore doses,” said Paul, while speaking at the government’s weekly briefing on Covid-19.Paul presented a table showing production for August-December period, with the companies ostensibly giving out their figures as: Covishield (Serum Institute) – 750 million; Covaxin (Bharat Biotech) – 550 million; Biological E’s subunit vaccine – 300 million; Zydus Cadila’s DNA vaccine – 50 million; Serum Institute’s Covavax – 200 million; Bharat Biotech’s nasal vaccine – 100 millionl Gennova’s mRNA vaccine – 60 million and Sputnik V’s 15 million.Among these, only Covishield, Covaxin and Sputnik V have been approved and Covavax’s international brand – developed by Novavax – has reached the efficacy analysis stage in phase III trials.The projected production appeared to be significantly higher than what some of the companies have announced till now – for instance, the figures released by Paul suggests an average production of 150 million doses a month of Covishield, while the company has said it will take up production capacity to 100 million a month by July.SII and Bharat Biotech did not respond to requests for a comment by HT.Experts said it was too early to say these many doses will be available unless procurement orders were made.“While we should have a reasonable expectation that the ongoing trials would be successful, we should not pre-judge them till they are completed and data are available for scrutiny both by the regulatory agency and the wider scientific community. Hope does not automatically translate to proof at this stage,” said Dr K Srinath Reddy, president, Public Health Foundation of India.Dr Giridhara R Babu, head, epidemiology, Indian Institute of Public Health also said, “This is fantastic news if the orders are already placed for two billion doses. It is safe to count only those vaccines which are approved for use by regulatory authorities after phase 3 is successfully completed.”According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), Zydus Cadila’s, ZyCov-D, is currently undergoing phase III human trials, Biological E’s vaccine is undergoing phase I/II human clinical trials, Bharat Biotech’s nasal vaccine is undergoing phase I human trials, SII’s Covovax is at phase II/III human trials stages, and Gennova’s mRNA based vaccine is also undergoing phase I/II human trials.Paul urged people to remain optimistic. “You may say optimistic; yes, it is optimistic. Is there a risk? There may be; it’s quite possible because the trials are still underway but we have to remain prepared. These are all promising vaccines. It is all responsible data coming straight from the companies,” said Paul.According to government data, so far, 356 million vaccine doses have been received by the Centre —66 million (56 million of Covishield and 10 million of Covaxin) under the PM Cares fund, 10 million under Gavi-Covax facility, 120 million purchased for phase II of the vaccination drive and 160 million under phase III. phase .In addition to these, private hospitals and state governments have purchased 160 million more, taking the total volume of doses sourced or in the pipeline till July to 516 million.Serum Institute’s CEO Adar Poonawalla said in recent media interviews that he was looking at ramping up capacity up to 100 million by July.The Department of Biotechnology in April announced that, with its help, Bharat Biotech was working towards ramping up production capacity by May-June, 2021 to over 100% of their current capacity of 10 million doses a month, with a target of reaching 100 million by September 2021.About 150,000 doses of Sputnik V have already been imported and more doses are expected in coming weeks.“India has a great opportunity to turn around the vaccine story if these companies are invited to manufacture by collaborating with Indian companies under make in India. We have a tremendous potential to meet the needs of the whole world, especially in providing affordable vaccine to poor countries,” said Dr Babu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-2bn-vaccines-to-be-available-by-dec-centre-101620931132370.html
14-05-2021||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||A report released on Wednesday on what went wrong with the world’s (and the World Health Organization’s) response to the coronavirus disease doesn’t have any surprising revelations. The report, prepared by the Independent Panel for Pandemic Preparedness and Response (IPPPR) that was set up after various WHO members demanded it, lists some suggestions on preparing for the next pandemic, including the creation of a Global Health Threats Council (its members will be heads of state, and also from civil society and the private sector), and an International Pandemic Financing Facility which will be funded by rich countries to the tune of $5-10 billion a year, and which will help countries prepare for or manage pandemics, that, while not entirely new (again), do seem like good moves. The best time to prepare for the next pandemic is soon after seeing the current one off.Click here for complete Covid-19 coverageThe report terms February 2020 the lost month – if WHO had acted then, or if countries had, the trajectory of the pandemic is likely to have been very different from one that has, over the 17 months since January 1, 2020, caused 161 million infections and 3.34 million deaths around the world. The actual numbers of the infected and the dead are likely to be much higher. On January 14, 2020, WHO claimed, on the basis of investigations carried out by Chinese health authorities, that there was “no clear human-to-human transmission”. A week later, it changed its position, and said there was possibility of “sustained” human-to-human transmission. It delayed declaring a public health emergency till January 31, and terming the outbreak a pandemic till March 11. It wasn’t until June that the multilateral health agency would issue a proper advisory on masks (which it did not recommend till then). And while it did accept the possibility that the virus could be airborne last year, it wasn’t until earlier this year that it changed its guidelines to include this. Most worryingly, though this period, WHO has made no headway in figuring out the origin of the virus which first appeared in Wuhan, China.The debate over whether the virus was made in a lab, or evolved in nature, is ongoing, and more research is needed before a definite answer can be provided. In early May, science writer Nicholas Wade summarised the research so far, laying out the cases for and against either scenario. Wade’s article, published in Medium, leans towards the lab argument, but it isn’t a conspiracy theory. Instead, he presents a cogent scientific argument built around three strands. One, provenance, or how, if the virus was naturally found in the famous horseshoe bats of Yunnan, it travelled all the way to Wuhan, at least 1,500km away; evolution, or how the Sars-CoV-2 virus, which causes the coronavirus disease, came fully evolved to optimally target humans, unlike the Sars-CoV virus, responsible for South Asia Respiratory Syndrome, that evolved over time to become efficient at targetting humans; and finally, the unique furin cleavage site that the virus possesses, not found in other betacoronaviruses, and activated by an enzyme, furin, commonly found in human cells.The furin cleavage site has figured in this column previously because it is truly unique. The spike protein of Sars-CoV2 has three parts – S1, S2, and a cleavage site at the boundary. Furin cleaves the two, and the S1 site then attaches to the ACE receptor (also found commonly on the surface of human cells), a binding that facilitates the entry of the viral protein into the human cell. You can read Wade’s piece (I’d recommend it) at nicholaswade.medium.comPS: There are reports that the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) could meet on Friday to discuss the use of convalescent plasma therapy, something it (rightly) recommended against last year. Yet, its use has continued, and it has been heartbreaking to see people scramble for something that isn’t going to help them. A high level of antibody (AB) titer is required for the therapy to be effective in the case of Covid-19, and this isn’t found in the case of most plasma. While at it, ICMR should also issue strict guidelines on the right context for the use of remdesivir, and steroids.PPS: The National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 (NEGVAC), on Thursday, accepted a recommendation that the gap between two doses of Covishield be increased to 12-16 weeks, from the current 6-8 weeks. This is a long-overdue move because there’s enough research to show that a gap of 12 weeks or more between doses has the most optimal impact on the vaccine’s efficacy, increasing it to 82.4% (protection against serious illness). The change will allow India to vaccinate more people. The first target is 375 million people who have received at least one dose of the vaccine. The sooner India reaches that number, the lower the chances of a strong third wave of the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-what-you-need-to-know-today-101620930582759.html
14-05-2021||India||Work allocation under NREGS rises amid Covid-19 surge||The Centre allocated more work under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) in April and May than in the corresponding period last year, signalling a greater job demand amid the surge in Covid-19 cases that has prompted lockdowns across the country, and pushed at least some migrant workers in the cities to return home, although the exodus is still a fraction of what was seen duuring the 68-day hard lockdown last year.The rural development ministry, which administers the world’s biggest job guarantee scheme, budgeted for 335.7 million person-days of work in April under MGNREGS. As India’s Covid cases rose, the budget for May jumped to 799.4 million person-days of work, a rise of around 140%.MGNREGS, which guarantees at least 100 days of manual work annually for at least one member of every rural household, generated 325.2 million person-days of work in April. As many as 335.9 million person-days of work have already been generated in the current month, showing a steep rise in job demand.Demand for work under the scheme surged following the lockdown that was imposed to check the pandemic last year. The curbs in 2020 triggered an exodus of workers from the cities to their homes in the hinterland. It is believed that the job guarantee scheme and the performance of the agricultural sector (which bucked the trend) helped insulate the rural economy to some extent from the fallout of the pandemic.In the middle of the lockdown last year in April, 175.7 million person-days of work was budgeted under the scheme. The budget saw a steep increase to 676.3 million person-days the following month. For the first time in MGNREGS’s history, more work was done in every month of FY20-21, barring April, than the budgeted quantum as workers left jobless by the lockdown returned to their homes last year. The year saw the highest ever spending under the scheme-- ₹1.11 lakh crores.Most Indian states and Union territories have imposed lockdowns, prompting workers to return home, where they are likely to fall back upon MGNREGS.This year’s Union budget, presented at a time when the country was seeing fewer than 10,000 cases of Covid-19 a day allocated ₹73,000 crore to MGNREGS. More demand for work under the scheme, widely seen as the last resort of employment in a calamity, will likely entail more allocations through additional funds or diversion of money from other schemes of the rural development ministry, a government official said.The spread of the disease in rural areas -- not seen for several months during the first wave of the pandemic last year -- has added to the concerns of MGNREGS managers. A second official of the ministry said that apart from beneficiaries, many grassroots-level officials, who play a critical role in maintaining records and ensuring smooth payments, may be affected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-cases-rise-govt-allocates-for-more-work-under-mgnregs-101620879049138.html
14-05-2021||NA||Highlights: Tamil Nadu records 30,621 new Covid-19 cases, 297 more deaths||India on Thursday recorded 362,727 fresh Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours, according to Union health ministry dashboard. As many as 4,129 new deaths were also registered. The country has so far reported a total of 23.70 million cases and 258,317 deaths. India is presently dealing with a second Covid-19 wave that has swept through the nation.The global Covid-19 disease caseload has climbed to 161,063,316 of which 3,344,433 people have died and 138,855,889 have recovered, according to worldometers.info. The United States continues to remain the worst-hit country from the pandemic with 33,585,061 cases and 597,760 deaths respectively.Meanwhile, the European Union's executive has called on countries of the bloc to temporarily halt non-essential travel from India, to limit the spread of a Covid-19 variant. "It is important to limit to the strict minimum the categories of travellers that can travel from India for essential reasons and to subject those who may still travel from India to strict testing and quarantine arrangements," the European Union added.Follow all the updates here:Tamil Nadu records 30,621 new Covid-19 cases, 297 more deathsTamil Nadu reports 30,621 new #COVID19 cases, 19,287 recoveries and 297 deaths in the last 24 hours.Total cases 14,99,485Total recoveries 12,98,945Death toll 16,768Active cases 1,83,772 pic.twitter.com/4r2K8JE7guTamil Nadu's caseload of the Covid-19 disease climbed to 1,499,485 after 30,621 new cases, 19,287 recoveries and 297 deaths were reported in the last 24 hours, according to the state health department's bulletin‘We were prepared for 3rd phase of Covid-19 vaccination, but..’: Chhattisgarh CMChhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel said on Thursday that the state was prepared for the third phase of the vaccination drive against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) from May 1 after Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s announcement, but the vaccine doses are still unavailable. Read moreWest Bengal sees record single day jump in Covid cases at 20,839West Bengal on Thursday recorded the highest single-day spike of 20,839 new Covid-19 cases, taking the caseload to 1,073,956, according to the health department's bulletin. As many as 129 people succumbed to the disease, taking the state's toll to 12,857.IAF airlifts 2 cryogenic oxygen tankers from SingaporeToday, an IAF IL-76 airlifted 2 cryogenic oxygen containers from Singapore and landed at Panagarh (West Bengal) in the evening. pic.twitter.com/qFLelhmZ43The Indian Air Force airlifted 2 oxygen cryogenic tankers from Singapore on Thursday and landed at the Panagarh base in the evening, reported ANI.Meghalaya extends lockdown in East Khasi hill district till May 24Meghalaya CM Conrad Sangma announced an extension of the ongoing lockdown in East Khasi Hills district till May 24, reported PTIMaharashtra records 42,582 new Covid-19 cases, 850 deathsMaharashtra recorded 42,582 new cases of Covid-19 on Thursday, taking the state-wide tally to 52,69,292. 850 deaths were also recorded in the last 24 hours, the death toll now stands at 78,857.Karnataka reports 35,297 new Covid-19 cases, 344 fatalitiesKarnataka on Thursday reported 35,297 cases of Covid-19, taking the state-wide tally of cases to 5,93,078. 344 deaths pushed the death toll to 20,712, ANI reported.Uttarakhand records 7,127 new cases of Covid-19, 122 deathsUttarakhand reports 7127 new #COVID19 cases, 5748 recoveries and 122 deaths in the last 24 hours.Total cases 2,71,810Total recoveries 1,84,207Death toll 4245Active cases 78,304 pic.twitter.com/sK46grebpBKerala reports 39,955 new Covid-19 cases, 97 deathsKerala reports 39,955 new Covid-19 cases on Thursday, taking the toll of active cases in the state to 4,38,913. 97 deaths were also reported in the last 24 hours, reported ANI.Bharat Biotech welcomes move to share technology with other manufacturers, says Dr VK PaulDr VK Paul, Member of NITI Ayog (Health) said Bharat Biotech has welcomed the decision to share the technology behind producing Covaxin with other vaccine manufacturers.Sputnik to be available in market by early next week, says health ministrySputnik vaccine will be available in market by early next week said the health ministry on Thursday. Production for the same is scheduled to start in July, the ministry added.Election Commission defers Legislative Council polls in Andhra Pradesh, Telangana due to Covid-19Election Commission on Thursday decided to defer the biennial election to Legislative Councils of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana due to the on-going second wave of Covid-19, reported ANI.Delhi reports 10,489 new Covid-19 cases, 308 deathsDelhi reported 10,489 new Covid-19 cases on Thursday, pushing the tally of cases in the nation capital to 13,72,475. 308 deaths were also reported in the last 24 hours, the death toll now stands at 20,618.Rajinikanth gets inoculated with second dose of Covid-19 vaccineTamil Nadu: Actor Rajinikanth took his second dose of #COVID19 vaccination today in Chennai. pic.twitter.com/w0Rfs8swxNActor Rajnikanth got inoculated with the second dose of the Covid-19 vaccine at Chennai on Thursday, reported ANI.Covid-19 lockdown in Bihar extended for 10 days till May 25The on-going lockdown in the state of Bihar has been extended till May 25, tweeted chief minister Nitish Kumar on Thursday. Kumar said the decision was taken because of the effectiveness of the on-going lockdown in bringing down the Covid-19 tally of the state. About 75,000 vaccines of Covaxin available in Karnataka at present: Sadananda GowdaThere are about 75,000 vaccines of Covaxin available in Karnataka at present. Of course, in certain centers, there is a little bit of scarcity. Practically, allotments will be made by central govt on basis of production of 2 manufacturing units: DV Sadananda Gowda, Union Minister.Ten states account for over 72% of new Covid-19 casesDelhi, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh are among 10 states that account for 72.42 per cent of the 3,62,727 new cases in the country in a span of 24 hours, the Union Health Ministry said on Thursday.MK Stalin writes to PM Modi urging to bring all Covid cure under zero GSTTamil Nadu CM MK Stalin writes to PM Narendra Modi urging to bring all Covid cure under zero GST.UPSC postpones civil services (preliminary) examination to October 10, 2021 in view of Covid-19Due to the prevailing conditions caused by the Novel coronavirus (Covid-19), the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) has deferred the Civil Services (Preliminary) Examination, 2021, which was scheduled to be held on June 27, 2021. Now, this Examination will be held on October 10, 2021.Russia reports 8,380 new coronavirus cases, 392 deathsRussia reported 8,380 new coronavirus cases in the space of 24 hours on Thursday, taking the national tally to 4,913,439.Odisha dispatches 633 tankers of medical oxygen to 12 states in last 21 daysA total of 633 tankers carrying 11656.454 metric tonnes (MT) medical oxygen have been dispatched under the supervision of Odisha Police so far from Rourkela, Jajpur, Dhenkanal, and Angul districts of Odisha to 12 deficit states in the country.25 cases of mucormycosis reported in civil hospitals in SuratMucormycosis, a fungal infection, is post Covid complication. 25 cases reported in civil hospitals and 20 in other hospitals here. All had contracted Covid-19 before. 50% patients are from outside Surat: Ashish Naik, Surat Municipal Corporation Deputy Health Commissioner.Japan vaccine chief blames drug approval system for slow inoculation driveJapan's Covid-19 vaccine chief has blamed a rigid drug approval system for a slow inoculation campaign that is relying on only one approved shot, as a fourth wave of infections raises worries amid preparations for the Summer Olympics.Meeting of the ICMR Covid-19 National Task Force will be held tomorrowA meeting of the ICMR Covid-19 National Task Force will be held tomorrow. A decision on the inappropriate use of convalescent plasma in the treatment of Covid-19 patients also on the agenda: ICMR sources, reports news agency ANI.Vaccination for people 18- 44 years of age halted at some Bengaluru centersVaccination for people 18- 44 years of age halted at some Bengaluru centers due to the shortage of vaccines."A better planning should have been done to cover this kind of population," says a local.Delhi records 10,400 fresh Covid-19 cases: Manish SisodiaDelhi records 10,400 fresh Covid-19 cases, positivity rate 14%: Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia.Sharp reduction in number of Covid-19 cases: Manish SisodiaSharp reduction in number of cases, more beds available in hospitals now, oxygen situation has improved: Delhi Dy CM Manish Sisodia.Delhi's oxygen need is 582 MT per day: Manish SisodiaToday, after assessment of the Covid-19 situation, Delhi's oxygen need is 582 MT per day. As a responsible government, we will give the surplus oxygen to the states who need it: Delhi Deputy CM Manish Sisodia.Arunachal Pradesh reports highest single-day spike of 279 Covid-19 casesArunachal Pradesh reported the highest single-day spike of 279 Covid-19 cases, pushing the tally to 20,854, a senior health official said here on Thursday.2nd batch of Sputnik V Covid-19 vaccines to arrive in India tomorrowThe second batch of Sputnik V Covid-19 vaccines to arrive in India tomorrow.Taiwan reports 13 new domestic Covid-19 casesTaiwan reported 13 new domestic Covid-19 infections on Thursday, amid a rise in cases that has unnerved the government and stock market.Maharashtra government extends lockdown till 7am of June 1Maharashtra government extended lockdown till 7 am of June 1. Earlier, the lockdown under Break The Chain initiative was till May 15.The state has added restrictions. Any person coming into Maharashtra by any mode will have to carry a negative RT-PCR report.States fighting with one another for vaccines portrays bad image of country: Arvind KejriwalDelhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday said the fact that the states are left to competing and fighting with one another in the international market for Covid vaccines portrays a "bad" image of India.Govt panel recommends those testing positive for Covid-19 should defer vaccination for six months after recoveryGovernment panel has recommended those testing positive for Covid-19 should defer vaccination for six months after recovery: Sources, reports news agency PTI.Haryana to float global tenders to procure Covid-19 vaccinesGlobal tenders would be floated by the Haryana government for procurement of Covid-19 vaccines to ensure that all those above 18 in the state are inoculated, Health Minister Anil Vij said on Thursday.Drugs Controller General of India approves Phase 2/3 clinical trial of Covaxin in the age group of 2 to 18 yearsDrugs Controller General of India (DCGI) approves Phase II/III clinical trial of COVAXIN in the age group of 2 to 18 years. Bharat Biotech to conduct trials in 525 healthy volunteers.Odisha reports 10,649 new Covid-19 cases, 19 deaths in last 24 hoursAs many as 10,649 new Covid-19 cases were reported in Odisha in the last 24 hours, according to the health bulletin issued by the state health department on Thursday.144 new Covid-19 cases push Mizoram s tally to 8,176Mizoram on Thursday reported 144 new Covid-19 cases, pushing the state's tally to 8,176, an official statement said.UP extends partial 'corona curfew' till May 17Uttar Pradesh government has extended the partial 'corona curfew' till May 17.The state reported 18,125 new cases including 916 cases in Lucknow, yesterday.India's Covid-19 tally crosses 23.7 million with 362,727 fresh cases and 4,129 deathsIndia on Thursday recorded 362,727 fresh Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours, according to Union health ministry dashboard. As many as 4,129 new deaths were also registered. The country has so far reported a total of 23.70 million cases and 258,317 deaths.Covid-19: Haryana roadways convert five mini-buses into ambulances in KarnalAs many as five Haryana roadways mini-buses at Karnal depot have been converted into Covid-19 ambulances on Wednesday and other districts are following the same with an aim to covert a total of 110 minibusses in the state.Covid-19 induced lockdown imposed in Jammu and Kashmir extended till May 17Covid-19 induced lockdown imposed in Jammu and Kashmir has been extended till May 17.4,509 new cases were reported in Jammu and Kashmir yesterday18,64,594 samples tested yesterday: ICMRTotal number of samples tested up to May 12 is 30,94,48,585 including 18,64,594 samples tested yesterday: ICMR.Officials add Vegas to areas with Covid-19 variant first identified in IndiaThe Las Vegas area has been added to places in Nevada where authorities have detected cases of a potentially worrisome strain of the coronavirus first detected in India.Doctors in Bihar's Muzaffarpur report black fungus in post-Covid caseA 52-year-old woman from Muzaffarpur has been diagnosed with fungus post-Covid-19 in Bihar on Wednesday.Religious, political events among factors behind Covid spike in India: WHOThe World Health Organisation has said a recent risk assessment of the situation in India found that “resurgence and acceleration” of Covid-19 transmission in the country had several potential contributing factors, including "several religious and political mass gathering events which increased social mixing".WHO urged to reform after panel finds failures worsened pandemicThe World Health Organization should be overhauled and given more authority to investigate global disease threats, according to a review of the international Covid-19 response that found a myriad of failures, gaps, and delays allowed the coronavirus to mushroom into a pandemic.Rajasthan to float global tender to buy 1 crore Covid vaccine dosesThe Rajasthan state cabinet on Wednesday gave the nod to float a global tender to purchase 1 crore doses of Covid-19 vaccines.Indian-American Congressman meets Kamala Harris over Covid-19 crisis in IndiaCongressman Ami Bera, the longest-serving Indian-American in the Congress, met Vice President Kamala Harris at the White House here to discuss the Covid-19 crisis in India.Serum Institute CEO promised to deliver 1.5 cr Covishield doses to Maharashtra after May 20, says Rajesh TopeSerum Institute of India CEO Adar Poonawalla has promised Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray to deliver 1.5 crore doses of Covid-19 vaccine Covishield to Maharashtra after May 20, said the state health minister on Wednesday.Covid-19: 1st Oxygen Express for Tamil Nadu departs from West BengalThe first Oxygen Express for Tamil Nadu from Indian Railways carrying 80 metric tonnes (MT) of liquid medical oxygen (LMO) on Wednesday left from Durgapur railway station in West Bengal.American India Foundation raises USD25 million for Covid-19 assistance to IndiaAn Indian-American non-profit body has raised USD25 million for Covid-19 assistance to India as the country battles a severe outbreak of the viral disease, its functionaries said.Himachal to provide free Covid treatment in pvt hospitals under Himcare, Ayushman Bharat schemesHimachal Pradesh Government will provide free treatment to Covid patients under Himcare and Ayushman Bharat schemes in registered private hospitals, said officials on Wednesday.Taiwanese cities tighten restrictions after Covid-19 cases riseTaiwanese cities are tightening restrictions on access to public venues like gyms and libraries after a rare rise in domestic Covid-19 infections that has spooked the stock market and unnerved the island.China reports 9 new Covid-19 cases vs 16 a day earlierChina reported nine new Covid-19 cases on the mainland on May 12, down from 16 cases a day earlier, the country's national health authority said on Thursday.Consignment of Covid-19 aid from Germany , Greece and Finaland reaches IndiaA flight from Germany carrying medical aid provided by Germany, Greece and Finland landed at the Delhi airport.Yankees up to seven Covid-19 positives among coaches, staffersNew York Yankees pitching coach Matt Blake is one of the latest affected as the team's number of Covid-19 positive tests increased to seven coaches and support staff members, according to manager Aaron Boone on Wednesday.Australia signs deal for 25 million Moderna Covid-19 dosesAustralia has reached a supply agreement for 25 million doses of Moderna Covid-19 vaccines, the US-based biotechnology company and the prime minister said Thursday.US-approved vaccines effective against B1617 variant of Covid-19: OfficialCovid-19 vaccines approved by the United States like Pfizer, Moderna and Johnson and Johnson have effectiveness against the B1617 variant of the virus that is predominant in India, which is experiencing one of the worst outbreaks of the pandemic, a top American health official said.Karnataka to temporarily suspend Covid vaccination for 18-44 yrs age group from todayKarnataka Government will temporarily suspend the Covid vaccination for the age group of 18 to 44 years from May 14, said officials.EU countries urged to halt non-essential travel from IndiaThe European Union’s executive called on countries of the bloc to temporarily halt non-essential travel from India, to limit the spread of a Covid-19 variant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-india-world-latest-news-covid-19-death-toll-may-13-2021-101620863182433.html
14-05-2021||Today's||For Assam’s new chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma, the top five challenges||Putting an end to intense and prolonged speculation over who would take over as Assam’s chief minister, Himanta Biswa Sarma took charge as the state’s 15th chief minister on Monday, with outgoing chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal proposing Sarma’s name at the party’s legislative party meeting.He assumes the responsibility at a crucial time, with the state witnessing the highest ever number of daily positive Covid19 cases and deaths due to the disease, with no immediate sign of the numbers decreasing.HT lists the top five challenges for the 52-year-old CM and his new cabinet.Covid crisisAs Sarma was the health minister in the previous Sonowal cabinet, and was hands-on in attempts at controlling spread of the disease, setting up Covid care centres, visiting patients at hospitals, procuring life-saving medicines and all required goods, it was expected he would keep the portfolio even after donning the CM’s chair.But he chose to give the responsibility to Keshab Mahanta, working president of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) alliance partner, Asom Gana Parishad. The move surprised many as despite being a senior minister in the earlier cabinet, Mahanta doesn’t have much experience in handling such a crisis and his role as water resources minister in the previous cabinet wasn’t felt to be up to the mark.Assam is recording around 5,500-6000 new Covid-19 cases and an average of 70 deaths a day due to the disease. With positivity rate hovering between 8% and 10%, the state has nearly 40,000 active cases — putting immense pressure on the state’s health infrastructure and all those involved in the medical sector.Also Read | Grenade blast in Assam’s Tinsukia leaves one dead, 2 injuredSarma is aware of the situation. He has already instructed ministers to visit all districts and file a ground report on status of the pandemic within three days. Stricter restrictions have been put in place, including closing down all office in urban areas and increasing the curfew duration to 15 hours daily. On Wednesday, he directed officials to conduct around 100,000 tests daily to detect positive cases early.Fixing finances As finance minister in the Sonowal government, Sarma is well aware of the financial realities of the state. As per government figures the state has liabilities of nearly ₹23,000 cr and total cumulative debt of around ₹85,000 cr. Like other states, Assam too faced difficulties in achieving its projected growth estimates at least in the first two quarters of last financial year, but the state continued to pay full salaries and pensions to its serving and retired employees.Significantly, the CM didn’t keep this portfolio too with himself and gave the responsibility to Ajanta Neog, a former Congress minister and Sarma’s one-time cabinet colleague who switched sides to the BJP just ahead of the assembly polls and won from the Golaghat seat. Incidentally, Neog is the state’s first woman finance minister.Addressing his first press conference on Monday after assuming charge, Sarma said that the state has ₹7,000 cr in its treasury and assured that the new government will be able to pursue its welfare and development schemes without facing any hurdles. “We have one of the best fiscal situations in the country in the entire country. There’s absolutely no cause of concern on Assam’s finances,” the CM claimed.Besides spending on Covid-19 control, the state government will also have to implement its ambitious promises of providing 100,000 jobs in the first year and waiving of nearly ₹12,000 cr of the microfinance loans taken by women self-help groups. It will remain to be seen how Sarma and Neog are able to fulfill them and boost the state economy.NRC re-verification Among its ten commitments to voters of Assam ahead of the assembly polls, the BJP promised delivering a corrected National Register of Citizens (NRC) as per the Supreme Court (SC) mandate, in order to protect genuine citizens and detect illegal infiltrators so that Assam’s civilization “remains protected”.In Assam, as per the Assam Accord of 1985, anyone who has been staying in the state prior to March 24, 1971 or can establish lineage to people residing on or before that date is considered as Indian citizen — a requirement also accepted for inclusion in the National Register of Citizens (NRC) updated in 2019. The names of around 1.9 million people who failed to prove their or their ancestor’s residency in Assam on that date and those who were declared foreigners by foreigners’ tribunals (as well their relatives) were excluded from the NRC.Also Read | Bengal Guv Dhankhar to visit Assam to meet post-poll violence hit peopleThe BJP has maintained that the updated document is faulty as it has included dubious persons and excluded genuine citizens and needs to be re-verified. The process has remained stuck as the NRC office is yet to issue rejection slips to those left out, allowing them to file fresh appeals for inclusion.“Our view on NRC is very clear. We want 20% re-verification of the list in districts bordering Bangladesh and 10% re-verification in other districts. If after that, the NRC is found to be correct, the state government would accept it and take the process forward. But if the NRC is found faulty after re-verification, we would want the Supreme Court to view this issue critically,” Sarma said at his first press conference as CM.NRC coordinator Hitesh Dev Sarma has filed an application in SC, seeking a complete, comprehensive and time-bound re-verification of the draft NRC as well as the supplementary list of NRC as some “glaring anomalies of serious nature” were detected in the process. The application sought re-verification to be done under supervision of a monitoring committee preferably represented by district judge, district magistrate and superintendent of police.ST status to six communities The BJP has also committed to granting scheduled tribe (ST) status to six communities of the state — Koch-Rajbongshi, Tai Ahom, Moran, Motok, Sutiya and tea-tribes, currently falling under other backward castes (OBC) category. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had promised it ahead of 2014 Lok Sabha polls and it was also part of BJP poll promise in 2016 ahead of the Assam assembly polls.The promise hasn’t been fulfilled yet. Though the Centre introduced a Bill in Rajya Sabha in January 2019 on granting ST status to these 6 communities, voting didn’t take place on it and the Bill lapsed. The state’s first BJP-led government of Sarbananda Sonowal also didn’t take much initiative on the issue apart from creating autonomous councils form Morans, Motoks and Koch-Rajbongshis in September last year — ahead of this year’s assembly election.The six communities are estimated to have a total population of nearly 15 million. While the BJP has been able to keep them pacified with the promise of ST status, by attracting some leaders of these communities to the party-fold and by creating the three new autonomous councils, it will have act fast if it doesn’t want this issue to lead to mass agitations.Also Watch | Assam: 18 elephants killed in lightning strikes in Nagaon district“Our government will try and ensure granting of ST status to these communities through talks with all stakeholders without hurting the interests of other communities who are already in the same category. Our previous government had worked on some ways in which this issued could be resolved and we are confident on doing that in coming days,” Sarma said in his press conference.Flood-free Assam Floods are an annual scourge that affects millions in Assam every year. The state witnesses several rounds of floods during the monsoon season, which leads to loss of lives, large scale erosion, thousands getting uprooted from their home and loss of property. The biggest contributor to this flooding is the Brahmaputra that flows thorough Assam as well as its tributaries.In 2016, the BJP had promised to dredge the Brahmaputra river of excess silt and reduce the problem of flooding. For this election, it listed Mission Brahmaputra with the aim of making the state flood-free on top of its 10 commitments made to voters.The BJP has promised new and scientific measures to control floods. They include dredging, management of Brahmaputra’s tributaries, creating big reservoirs to accumulate extra water from the river, using satellite imagery to identify places where major flooding takes place, and drives to evict squatters from the banks of Brahmaputra and its tributaries.From public health to citizenship, from natural disasters to economy, Himanta Biswa Sarma will have to hit the ground running in Assam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/for-assam-s-new-chief-minister-himanta-biswa-sarma-the-top-five-challenges-101620995099452.html
14-05-2021||Today's||In its hour of need, Quad members stand with India||As China gains ground in a global competition across the military, economic, diplomatic, and technological domains, the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue (Quad) made up of Australia, India, Japan, and the United States (US) is finally finding its footing. The extent to which Quad countries can collaborate across all four domains will determine whether China’s designs on the Indo-Pacific will succeed.However, the first order of Quad business is assisting India as it grapples with a ferocious second wave of the coronavirus pandemic. India’s priority is taking care of its sick and getting its population vaccinated as soon as possible. Quad countries — and all of India’s friends — should do what they can to help India in its time of need.While the US was slow to offer needed materials for vaccine production, it has since come through and is providing those items plus oxygen, therapeutics, testing kits, personal protective equipment, and other aid. More importantly, Washington has also decided it will support India’s calls to temporarily lift patent protections for Covid-19 vaccines. The move could be a game-changer for India’s vaccination campaign.Japan, for its part, has provided an initial batch of oxygen concentrators and ventilators and pledged $50 million in grant aid. Australia has announced a support package for India, although Prime Minister (PM) Scott Morrison’s banning of Australian citizens from returning home from India has created a backlash in India and among human rights groups.Also Read | Quad an exclusive ‘clique’, working against China: Foreign ministryChina’s President Xi Jinping has also sent a letter to PM Narendra Modi, offering to assist India in its fight against the pandemic.The letter follows a posting on micro-blogging site Weibo by a Chinese Communist Party-linked account that juxtaposed photos of a Chinese rocket blast and cremation pyres burning in India, with the caption, “China lighting a fire versus India lighting a fire.” The post caused an uproar in India and was criticised by many Chinese. It has since been deleted.While President Xi may view the current crisis in India as an opportunity to thaw relations after last year’s border crisis, New Delhi will be wary of the outreach. The Indian public will look for concrete signs that the Chinese are pulling back forces along the contested Line of Actual Control to pre-May 2020 positions. And even then, Indian leaders will remain skeptical of China’s strategic intentions toward India. Indians will not easily forget China’s border aggression, despite Beijing’s current overtures.While the current focus is on helping India deal with its surge in Covid-19 cases, Quad’s fundamental purpose of upholding the rules-based international order and its vision for the Indo-Pacific is as relevant as ever. Indeed, Quad’s recent vaccine initiative to ramp up Indian production of vaccines to produce a billion doses by the end of 2022 demonstrates its role in providing solutions to the region’s most pressing crises.But Quad has a history of moving slowly — mainly due to a desire to avoid provoking China but also because of the bureaucratic complexity of convening and coordinating among four powerful democratic nations. After 14 years of fits and starts, Quad is beginning to take shape and define its purpose — preserve the open, free, transparent, and rules-based order that facilitates trade, economic and political development in the Indo-Pacific.When Quad countries held their first meeting in 2007, China reacted badly and sent demarches to each nation asking why they were undertaking such an initiative. Canberra and New Delhi downplayed the significance of the gathering and started backing away from the concept, casting it into cold storage for the next ten years.Also Read | US took note of China’s warning to Bangladesh against Quad: OfficialIn the interim, China made significant strides in its military modernisation efforts and used naval power to press territorial claims in the South and East China Seas and extend its influence into the Indian Ocean. It also ramped up aggression along its disputed borders with India, strengthened its grip on Tibet, cracked down on democracy in Hong Kong, and employed both State power and illegal means to ascend toward global technological dominance.It’s now clear that the “go-slow, avoid irritating China” approach to multilateral cooperation has neither helped to moderate Chinese behaviour nor delayed Beijing’s attempts to bend the global order toward its authoritarian ideology.When the time is right, Quad will continue with its work not only on pandemic-related issues but also on establishing resilient supply chains for critical technologies, dealing with climate, maritime security, and providing infrastructure alternatives — just to name a few areas.With so much work to be done, it is imperative that none of the Quad countries bend to Chinese pressure and again back away from the grouping as happened 14 years ago. The misconception that placating China by avoiding collaboration among like-minded democracies might somehow make Beijing a friendlier or more cooperative partner has been laid bare.India is a resilient nation, and it will get a handle on the pandemic wave currently ravaging the nation. When it does, the need for the Quad will be as — or more — important as ever.Lisa Curtis is senior fellow and director, Indo-Pacific Security Program, Center for a New American Security and co-chair, Gateway House Quad Economy and Technology Task Force. She served as deputy assistant to President Donald Trump, and senior director for South and Central Asia at the National Security Council from 2017-2021 The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/in-its-hour-of-need-quad-members-stand-with-india-101620993960002.html
14-05-2021||Today's||Amma and the women who enable women||With the death of my Amma last week, I joined the hundreds of thousands of Indians coming to terms with grief and loss. Still, I guess, she was one of the lucky ones who managed to get not just a hospital bed but, crucially, oxygen and an intensive care unit support.She put up a fight for eight days before slipping into unconsciousness. My daughters would call her on the speaker phone and Nirmal, her son, told them she would respond to the sound of their voices.Her passing became for me an occasion to reflect on our 27-year-long relationship. I had just given birth by C-section to my elder daughter, when she came to the hospital for an “interview” — swiftly resolved with just one question, the answer to which was that she had worked in her previous job for 16 years. She became a part of our home right then.Also Read | Free education for kids who lost parents to Covid: Delhi CMRenubala Das was solid that way. A widowed, unlettered refugee from Bangladesh who remained unsure about her age, she had come to Delhi with two young sons, acquiring employment, a bank account and a property in what was then called the East Pakistan Displaced Persons Society, now Chittaranjan Park. On the bedrock of her no-nonsense stoicism, I built my career as a journalist.Like so many working women, I depend on the labour of an army of cooks, cleaners and nannies in a lopsided relationship where a privileged employer pays a salary to less-privileged employee. The hierarchy extends to domestic work where the better-paid jobs of driver and cook go mainly to men while women do the more poorly-paid jobs of cleaning and childcare. Finally, there’s the issue of housework itself that, no matter how deep your privilege, remains the business of women.Underpaid and unregulated, domestic workers are bearing the brunt of Covid-19. Yet, to recover from the pandemic’s 2020 avatar when they were disgracefully shut out of housing complexes and laid off work, many now have been “left stranded without jobs or food stock, face severe discrimination and stigma and are combating coronavirus itself,” says Nandita Bhatt, director, Martha Farrell Foundation that works with domestic workers and is seeking to raise relief for 15,000 workers, most of them single mothers, just like Amma.We considered Amma a part of our family, and for my daughters especially, her passing has been impossibly hard to process given that we are still under curfew, still in an age of social distancing, still gripped by fear and anxiety, wondering who this dreadful disease will fell next.Despite the disparity in our incomes, Amma and I were both working women. But only one of us was able to get to work because the other was watching out for her children. Only one of us could put in long hours in the office because the other was putting in longer hours at home. I paid her a salary, but she gifted me the freedom to follow a profession. I regret not telling her how much that meant to me.Namita Bhandare writes on genderThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/amma-and-the-women-who-enable-women-101620992579192.html
14-05-2021||Editorials||Review the Char Dham project||A spate of cloudburst-type events and heavy rainfall in Uttarakhand since May 3 — the latest one happened on May 11 in Tehri Garhwal district — once again highlights the vulnerability of the region and the dangers of continuing with the Char Dham project. The cloudburst events have caused extensive damage to the route. And environmen-talists and geologists have warned that any further hill-cutting in the pre-monsoon and monsoon seasons to widen the existing highway will aggravate risks of landslides and other disasters. More rain is expected over the western Himalayan region. Scientists have also warned that the series of cloudbursts may have happened because March, April and May have been warmer than normal, a plausible impact of the climate crisis.Yet, the Centre seems to be in a hurry to work on the road-widening project, citing “national security” as a compelling reason, even though the road has been motorable since 1962 and only three of the five roads are “feeder roads” to the border and not border roads. Hearing the road-widening case, the Supreme Court (SC) in September, 2020, directed that the width of the road be 5.5 metres, based on the 2018 notification issued by the ministry of road transport and highways (MoRTH) and the minority report of a 26-member High Powered Committee. The ministry of defence filed a separate application in November, 2020, asking the court to review its order and allow it to increase the road width to seven metres. Later, MoRTH partially amended its notification for three feeder routes of the project, and allowed the road width to be 10 metres. The case is due to be heard next week by SC’s vacation bench. Environmentalists have demanded that the “intricate and complex” case should be heard by a regular bench and not a vacation bench since there’s no urgency in the matter. From the very start, the Char Dham project has bypassed several legal requirements (including the mandatory environmental impact assessment); there have been several flip-flops by the ministries involved, and warnings by several green activists, scientists and geologists have gone unheeded. The Himalayas are a fragile region. The government must rethink and consider all perspectives before pushing though the 900-km all-weather project in the name of national security.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/review-the-char-dham-project-101621003261909.html
