15-05-2021||Mumbai||After PM directs audit of ventilators, Congress calls for joint audit with state||Hours after Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi directed an audit into the installation and operation of ventilators provided to the states by the Centre, Maharashtra Congress demanded a joint audit by the state and Centre. The state Congress has been raising the issue of “sub-standard” quality of ventilators provided to Maharashtra from the PM Cares fund.Congress general secretary and spokesperson Sachin Sawant said merely an audit would not be enough and demanded that the Center and the state government conduct a joint audit and take action against the “culprits”. According to a statement by Sawant, these ventilators are lying unused at many locations including Aurangabad and Nashik. Welcoming the decision by PM Modi, Sawant said he should have taken the decision last year as the machines would not have been lying unused in the hospitals.“During the Covid-19 outbreak, the Central government has been supplying ventilators to the states and Union Territories from the PM Cares fund. Under the Make in India initiative, some companies have been given the task of making ventilators. Over the past year, objections have been raised from various states about the quality and uselessness of these ventilators. Similar objections were raised in Gujarat. Recently, Aurangabad Medical College had appointed a committee to give a comprehensive report on the quality of ventilators provided to them. The report of the committee is very serious and concludes that all the ventilators supplied by Jyoti CNC, a Gujarat-based company, are useless,” the statement read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/after-pm-directs-audit-of-ventilators-congress-calls-for-joint-audit-with-state-101621101004746.html
15-05-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: CISF constable duped of ₹1.24 lakh by online fraudsters||Trombay police on Friday booked unknown persons for duping a 30-year-old constable from the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) of ₹1.24 lakh.According to the police, the complainant Ananda Shelke is posted at the BARC. The fraudster posed as an executive from a courier-logistics company, and under the pretext of processing a complaint of non-delivery of a product his wife had ordered online, managed to convince Shelke to download an app. The accused later fraudulently extracted money from his account. Shelke’s wife had ordered sarees from a popular e-commerce site. However, the product was not delivered on time, following which, Shelke tried to track the delivery of the product. He looked for the customer care number of the shipping company online. “He contacted the shipping company and asked for the contact of the delivery boy who would be delivering his ordered product. The executive sent a link to the complainant to re-verify his address and also asked him to make a transaction of ₹5. Shelke clicked on the link, but as his transaction of ₹5 got declined the executive asked him to download an app,” said a police officer.After opening the app it asked the user to press the ‘allow’ button for certain permissions. Later, ₹50,000 got deducted from Shelke’s account. When he enquired, the executive told him that it would be refunded soon and told him to ‘allow’ the app to process further.On following the said instructions, ₹50,000 and ₹24,000 got deducted again from his account. Shelke then realised that he has been duped and he approached the police.The Trombay police have registered a case of cheating and impersonation and are investigating further.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-cisf-constable-duped-of-1-24-lakh-by-online-fraudsters-101621101004161.html
15-05-2021||Mumbai||Elgar Parishad case: Family members renew plea for release of the accused||Family members and friends of the accused in Elgar Parishad-Bhima Koregaon violence case have renewed their plea for release of all the accused in the case from jails, claiming that death is staring in their faces because of the inhuman conditions in Taloja and Byculla jails where they are lodged.They have alleged that there was mismanagement in prison with regards to Covid-19 protocol and medical facilities available in prisons.Family members and well-wishers of the accused held a virtual meet on Saturday narrating the conditions in prisons and inmates amid the second wave of the Covid-19 outbreak.Wife of Hany Babu, 54, an associate professor in the department of English with Delhi University who recently tested positive for Covid-19, pleaded that they should be released immediately and taken care of medically and emotionally. She said the condition in the prison is very dangerous in as much as the jail hospital not having doctors or trained staff to take care of patients.One of the well-wishers of accused Harshali Potdar claimed the condition in Taloja jail was very dangerous and added that the inmates who are actually sick and unwell are not being tested for the infection while healthy inmates are being tested. She further alleged that the inmates are also not being taken care of.Father Joe Xavier, friend of accused Stan Swamy, expressed concern for the 84-year-old Jesuit priest and said that Swamy, in their last telephonic conversation, had told him that he was “fragile” and feeling helpless.Sudha Bharadwaj’s daughter Maaysha said her mother’s condition was very poor, as she suffers from several co-morbidities.The kin also alleged that in this situation, the family members have not been able to communicate with the arrested accused. They alleged the letters written by accused got delivered after a month while phone calls are also not clearly audible.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/elgar-parishad-case-family-members-renew-plea-for-release-of-the-accused-101621100944861.html
15-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Missing out on campus experience, say FYJC students||Last year, when Ryan Viegas passed his Class 10 board exam with 92%, he was elated. Viegas, who wanted to pursue Arts, got a seat at one of the city’s most prestigious colleges — St Xavier’s College. In his school days, he had heard a lot about the excitement of being in one of the top colleges of the city and wanted to experience all of it himself. However, with the Covid-19 pandemic and the resultant lockdown, colleges in the city and the state remained close and lakhs of students like Viegas had to make do with virtual experiences of college life.“I was really excited about getting to go to the college of my choice. I had heard a lot of things about the college and the activities there. Academically, I am very happy with the online teaching but the physical experience is something I miss,” said Viegas. When asked about the difference between the offline and online format, he said, “Since I do not know what it is to physically attend college, I cannot even make that comparison.”While the pandemic and the resultant shift to online learning had an impact on students across grades, for students who entered first-year junior college (FYJC) last year, the impact was more pronounced. For majority students in Maharashtra, FYJC is the first college experience that students get as they move from schools to junior colleges for Class 11 and 12. In Mumbai itself, nearly 224,000 students were admitted at various junior colleges across the Mumbai Metropolitan Region last year. With colleges remaining closed for physical classes, these students have been deprived of the real college experience — enjoying a new campus, meeting new teachers, making new friendships and, travelling to far-off colleges by themselves at times. Even as junior colleges in the state began their online classes soon after the academic year began for students, the real experience of transitioning from school to college environment was lost. Students said colleges are doing their best to provide them with excellent online learning but added that they do miss out on the college experience as a whole, something that they had always looked forward to. Nilakshi Mishra, a student from an aided school in Chembur, worked hard to get to the college of her choice. A student of Ruia College, Mishra was not able to visit her campus even once. “I had heard so many stories from my friends about college life, canteen and hangout places near the college. It all seems like a rosy picture to me now. I have barely been able to make any friends and only know a couple of students who I have worked with for my group discussions and assignments. It is really upsetting,” said Mishra.Satram Verhani, former vice-principal of CHM College in Ulhasnagar, said this year has been particularly difficult for FYJC students. “In college, there are so many extra-curricular activities. Students get an opportunity to participate in events, various clubs etc. which they could not do to that extent this year. While we did conduct some events online, it is definitely not the same,” he added.Aryaman Kumar, a science student enrolled at PACE Junior College in Dadar, said students cannot develop a good rapport with their teachers in the online mode. “The teachers teach us well and handle all our queries, but beyond that there is no discussion at an individual level because both teachers and students are new to each other. We have no reference point for a general conversation, which usually helps a lot in getting to know things during college days,” he added.Teachers said it is difficult to imagine college life without a campus. “When we were in college, we learnt more in canteen and gymkhana than in classrooms. When students come to colleges from schools, a different world opens up for them altogether. Nothing can compensate for these prime years and they will never come back,” said a junior college teacher from a suburban college.Schools and colleges in the state closed for physical classes in March 2020. While admissions to junior college began in August 2020, colleges in the state started only in December-January owing to the Supreme Court stay on admissions under the Maratha quota. Students are now hoping that physical colleges resume soon. “I just hope we get to attend college at least for a few months. I want to take up a professional course later and this is the only college experience where I will get to study and relax a bit at the same time,” said Sana Shah, a student from Vile Parle.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-missing-out-on-campus-experience-say-fyjc-students-101621100944246.html
15-05-2021||Mumbai||Virtual tours of engineering colleges for aspirants as AICTE takes college approval process online||Engineering aspirants aiming at institutes in the country will soon have the advantage of getting a virtual tour of the institute on their respective websites. While this process is common with universities abroad, the All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) has decided to give students in the country the same feature.A year after approving 171 new professional institutes online due to Covid-19 restrictions, AICTE has now decided to take the process to virtual mode only. The decision comes after several stakeholders felt the online mode brought better accountability and transparency to the entire process.“While in 2020, the approval process had to be conducted online due to travel restrictions imposed by the pandemic, we have received very positive feedback from all stakeholders in the past one year. Hence, we decided to permanently do away with physical visits and paperwork involved in the institute approval process,” said Anil Sahasrabudhe, chairman, AICTE. Along with new institutes, existing institutes also have to apply for renewal of their affiliation with AICTE every year. As part of the process, colleges submit detailed paperwork highlighting the courses they offer, staff and infrastructure available and the fees they plan to charge students. Once the paperwork is approved, AICTE sends a specially-appointed local inquiry committee to visit the institute and check the facilities as described by the institute in their form.As part of the virtual process now, colleges will be expected to submit all necessary documents in soft copy to AICTE, and the council then participates in a virtual tour of the institute before the final approval. “Time and again AICTE has received complaints against senior members of local inquiry committees demanding bribes at the time of physical visits. Virtual tours should help cut out third-party arrangements and bring more transparency to this process,” said principal of an engineering institute in Pune.AICTE approved 171 new institutes in the 2020-21 academic year, marking a 138% drop compared to last year when it gave approvals to over 945 institutes across professional courses. Experts say the lower number is due to the blanket ban on private engineering and pharmacy institutes across the country, despite a year-on-year seat vacancy of up to 50%.According to AICTE, almost 70% institutes which were approved this year are government-run, whereas in the past few years, private institutes have dominated engineering and pharmacy sectors. Every year, AICTE starts accepting approval applications for new as well as existing institutes by November. However, this year applications were accepted February onwards. The governing authority now has the permission from the Supreme Court to complete the approval process till June-end. “Online applications are helping us go paperless and at the same time, making the otherwise cumbersome process easier for the institutes as well as for us. The advantage of virtual tours is that the institute can then upload the same video on their website, making it convenient for students to check the institute before choosing to apply for a seat,” added Sahasrabuddhe.This year, AICTE has also introduced the concept of digital signatures on online application forms, making it clear that no application will be accepted without the validated digital signature of the head of the institute or management governing the institute. “This process brings better accountability because every year institutes would blame their juniors for errors in the application process, but henceforth we will hold the heads of the institute accountable for errors, if any,” added Sahasrabuddhe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/virtual-tours-of-engineering-colleges-for-aspirants-as-aicte-takes-college-approval-process-online-101621100824139.html
15-05-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Man acquitted of murdering neighbour||Mumbai sessions court recently acquitted a 29-year-old man arrested around five-and-a-half-years ago for killing his neighbor who stalked and harassed his wife. The man was cleared of all charges as the prosecution failed to prove that the weapon used for committing the murder belonged to the accused.The accused, Shrinivas Lakka, was arrested for allegedly killing his neighbour on December 22, 2015. Lakka then went to Chunabhatti police station to surrender, the prosecution claimed.The prosecution had alleged that the deceased used to follow Lakka’s wife and verbally harassed her, following which Lakka met with him asking him to stop. However, as he continued with the stalking and harassment, Lakka assaulted him on neck, head and abdomen multiple times. The court, however, acquitted Lakka as the prosecution failed to prove that the weapon was Lakka’s. Police claimed they seized and sealed the weapon around 8pm on the day, but evidence on record suggested that a constable was seen carrying the weapon around 10.30pm while investigating the crime. This discrepancy turned out to be fatal for the prosecution case.Lakka’s lawyer Wahab Khan claimed the confession at the time when he allegedly surrendered, as claimed by the police, was not admissible as evidence. The prosecution had also failed to examine an eye witness, wife of the deceased, to prove the case.The court accepted the submissions and acquitted Lakka.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-man-acquitted-of-murdering-neighbour-101621100765457.html
15-05-2021||Mumbai||78-year-old booked for sexually assaulting stray dog||Tulinj police booked Anant Patil, 78, a resident of Nallasopara (East), for allegedly sexually assaulting a stray dog on May 14. A resident of a building near the scene of the crime filmed the act and alerted an NGO, which in turn informed police, said senior inspector Rajendra Kamble, Tulinj police.“We saw the clip and registered a case under section 377 (unnatural sex) of the Indian Penal Code and section 11(1)(a) of the Animal Cruelty Act, 1960. We did not arrest him as he is suffering from a series of dreaded disease including sexual transmitted disease (STD), diabetes and other ailments. We will also conduct RT-PCR test for Covid-19 detection. But it would be risky if we arrest him due to his contagious disease,” said the officer. The police will present a charge sheet in the case before Vasai court and will also produce Patil before the court. “We are investigating further to check if he is a habitual sex offender,” said Kamble.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/78yearold-booked-for-sexually-assaulting-stray-dog-101621100764772.html
15-05-2021||Mumbai||Set up separate wards, teams to treat mucormycosis: Maharashtra health minister||Looking at the rising cases of mucormycosis in Maharashtra, state health minister Rajesh Tope directed authorities to create a separate ward in government and private medical college hospitals to treat such patients. Tope, while addressing media in Jalna on Saturday, also said that independent team of experts and nurses should be formed to treat these patients.The health minister said cases of mucormycosis, which is colloquially referred as black fungus, are a new challenge for the health department in the backdrop of Covid-19 pandemic and added that patients with this disease need ear, nose, throat (ENT) specialist, ophthalmologist, neurosurgeon, plastic surgeon. He said government hospitals and medical college hospitals have some experts, and therefore a separate ward should be set up there. “Not every place will have so many experts under one roof. Therefore, treatment is being provided in large hospitals. And the disease can be treated in certain large hospitals participating in Mahatma Phule Jan Arogya Yojana,” Tope said. He further added that the state is taking efforts to make available the injections required for the treatment of black fungus. So far, he said, 5,000 injections have been distributed and the state is in process to purchase 100,000 injections from Haffkine Institute.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/set-up-separate-wards-teams-to-treat-mucormycosis-maharashtra-health-minister-101621100764212.html
15-05-2021||Chandigarh||Governance reforms: Punjab wants governor to be PU chancellor||The Punjab government has finally sent its comments to the Panjab University reforms committee, in which it has recommended that the governor of Punjab be made the chancellor of the university instead of the vice-president of India. Director of public instruction (DPI) Paramjit Singh, who is a member of the committee representing Punjab, has written to the chairperson of the committee, Central University of Punjab, Bathinda, vice-chancellor RP Tiwari asking that the governor be restored as chancellor of the university.The government has also asked the university’s senate to consider the recommendations. The subcommittee is of the view that four senate members should be elected from among registered post graduate fellows. Of the four, three may be from Punjab, and one from Chandigarh. It has also recommended that 18 members of the senate be nominated by the chancellor from among academicians, of which nine should be in consultation with the government of Punjab. Singh has asked that these recommendations be incorporated in the main body of the final report and not as an annexure.These comments were supposed to be sent to the chairperson of the committee by April 26. However, the DPI had said that the government was busy with Covid management of the state. The 11-member panel of experts was constituted by the chancellor in February to recommend governance reforms in light of the New Education Policy after the University Grants Commission in November 2020 asked the varsity to initiate governance reforms as per provisions of the PU Act and Regulations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/governance-reforms-punjab-wants-governor-to-be-pu-chancellor-101621100704679.html
15-05-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: 4 booked in illegal death certificate racket||City police crime branch officers have booked a doctor and three others suspected to be involved in a death certificate racket. The accused would arrange death certificate in ₹3,000 for those who wish to take the body of their relatives to their hometown for the last rituals and urgently require a death certificate. The group was allegedly issuing death certificate without a doctor examining the (deceased) person. Those booked on charges of cheating and forgery have been identified as Sunny Kawle, Somnath Gaikwad and Dashrath Gurav. A doctor is also been named in the case. The crime branch had unearthed the racket after sending a bogus customer to one of the group members who issued a death certificate for ₹3,000 without examining the body, the police said. Crime branch officers have handed over the case to Nagpada police for further probe. The police are trying to find out when the group is illegally issuing death certificate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-4-booked-in-illegal-death-certificate-racket-101621100464142.html
15-05-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: At 37.4 degrees Celsius, May temperature hits 10 year high||With the maximum daytime temperature on Saturday settling at 37.4 degrees Celsius — up from 34.5 degrees Celsius the day prior —Mumbai recorded its hottest day in May, in a decade. The city had earlier recorded a temperature of 36.1 degrees Celsius on May 3, which until Saturday was the highest reading since 2016. Officials attributed Saturday’s sudden rise in mercury to the dense cloud cover that has been forming over the city since Thursday.“As a result of weather activity due to Cyclone Tauktae, there is a dense cloud cover which has formed over the Konkan coast, and which is acting as a heat trap. Hot air is unable to rise beyond a certain height and this pushes up the atmospheric temperature closer to the earth’s surface. But this phenomenon should reduce significantly toward Sunday evening once it rains,” said a meteorologist with the India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) regional forecasting centre in Mumbai.As per IMD’s seven-day forecast for its automatic weather station in Santacruz, the maximum daytime temperature on May 16 may drop to as little as 31 degrees Celsius, falling further to 30 degree Celsius on May 17 — which would mark the city’s lowest daytime May temperature in 10 years. Generally, cloudy skies with moderate to heavy rain at isolated locations in Mumbai, Thane and Palghar are expected to prevail during this period. Wind speeds are likely to be between 35 to 50kmph.At 7pm on Saturday, IMD’s regional forecasting Centre in Mumbai reported that Cyclone Tauktae was located about 250kms off the coast of Goa. It is expected to cross Mumbai’s latitude late Sunday, at a distance of 300 to 350kms from the coast. Parts of south Maharashtra — including Ratnagiri and Raigad in the Konkan belt — began to heavy rains on Saturday itself, however, officials said that the impact on Mumbai and the north Konkan belt will be minimised by the cyclone’s movement toward Gujarat, where it is expected to make landfall between Kutch and Gir Somnath around May 18.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbaiat-37-4-degrees-celsius-may-temperature-hits-10-year-high-101621100404132.html
15-05-2021||Mumbai||Pension for Covid orphans good move by Madya Pradesh: Sena||Lauding the Bharatiya Janata Party-ruled Madhya Pradesh government for announcing a monthly pension for children orphaned during the Covid-19 pandemic, Shiv Sena on Saturday said that this could be a role model for other states. The Sena, through its mouthpiece Saamana, said that the governments — state or Union — have to take cognisance of children who have lost their parents due to Covid-19 and must give the “shield of humanity”.Madhya Pradesh government on Thursday announced that children who lost their parents or guardians to Covid will be provided free education and a ₹5,000 monthly pension. The state will also bear the expenses of the education of these children.The editorial in Saamana said that any amount of praise for Chouhan’s decision was not enough. Sena lamented the loss of the many adults due to Covid-19 leading to several children left bereft of guardians.“Many children are unaware that their parents who are fighting Covid may not return from the hospital. The government will have to take care of these orphaned children by becoming their guardian. Whether is the Union government or the state, they would have to take note of these children and give them the shield of humanity the way Madhya Pradesh’s Shivraj Chouhan has done,” the editorial said.Earlier this week, the Maharashtra government decided to form a task force in each district under the district collector to identify the children who have been orphaned due to Covid-19 to ensure their safety. The editorial added that many have expressed concern over the issue and it has been discussed on several occasions. “This was discussed in Maharashtra too, but Madhya Pradesh did not merely discuss this serious matter, they also announced that they would give pension to such children,” the editorial said in a critical tone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/pension-for-covid-orphans-good-move-by-madya-pradesh-sena-101621100284154.html
15-05-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai’s Kasturba Hospital to start genome sequencing||Kasturba Gandhi hospital, Byculla, will start genome sequencing of a few Covid-19 patients in the city to find out any possible presence of a mutation of Sars-Cov-2—the virus that causes Covid-19 — and understand its role in the transmission and spread of the infection. This will make Kasturba hospital the first civic-run hospital in the city to conduct genome sequencing on Covid-19.Recently, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) received approval from the central health department to commence genome sequencing at Kasturba Hospital. Alongside, a committee has also been formed to do undertake research on the microbiological characteristics of mutated strains of the virus. Dr Jayanthi S Shastri, in-charge of the hospital’s microbiology department, will head the programme.Genome sequencing is a technique that involves analysing the genetic code of an organism and is done with the help of powerful computers.Talking to HT, Dr Shastri said that samples will be collected from adults with atypical clinical presentations, children with Covid-19 infection, international passengers and patients who contracted the infection in clusters with high positivity rate. “The in-house sequencing of samples will enable us to get results faster, which will enable rapid policy planning to take appropriate measures. Genome sequencing is required for medical preparedness in any outbreak of a disease,” she said. “Linking information of genome sequencing with patients’ data is essential for genome epidemiology for better understanding of disease like its progression, severity, transmissibility and therapeutics,” she added. So far, on a weekly basis, BMC has been sending 50 random samples for genome sequencing of infected patients with travel history, belonging from hot spots and families with higher infection rates to National Institute of Virology (NIV) in Pune. But health officials said it is time-consuming, which often delays delivery of the reports. “We get reports of the samples from NIV after 15-20 days. Kasturba hospital has one of the advanced laboratories in India, so we decided to start the sequencing in the hospital,” said a health officer. In March, the central health department confirmed the presence of ‘dual mutation’ of Sars-Cov-2 in the state. According to a press release by the government of India issued on March 24, “The analysis of samples from Maharashtra has revealed that compared to December 2020, there has been an increase in the fraction of samples with the E4840 and 1452R mutations. Such mutations confer immune escape and increased infectivity. These mutations have been found in about 15-20% of samples and do not match any previously catalogued VOC.”In Mumbai, 22 positive samples out of 220 samples sent by BMC to NIV were detected with the United Kingdom strain of the novel coronavirus. But no other strain of the virus was detected in any other samples from Mumbai.“With the starting of the sequencing in Kasturba Hospital, our dependence on NIV will decrease. On Monday, I will hold a meeting with the experts advising them to fasten the process,” said Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner, BMC.“Also, through the research, we would be able to understand how the presence of the new strain is affecting the pandemic. This can provide scientific insight if we are heading into the third wave of the pandemic,” he added.All viruses constantly mutate into new versions or variants. The genetic changes happen as the virus makes new copies of itself to spread and thrive. Most are inconsequential, but a few variants can make the virus more infectious.Dr Lancelot Pinto, a pulmonologist and an epidemiologist said, “Variants are expected to evolve when a highly transmissible virus moves rapidly through a host population. Such new variants of the coronavirus could have escape mutations which help the virus evade the body’s immune system, thereby conferring the virus with a survival advantage. Escape mutations in the spike protein could result in infections among individuals who had existing antibodies to earlier strains of the virus”When asked about the presence of the mutated strains in the recently sent sample to NIV, he said, “We have found a few UK strains but the number of double mutations has declined since March. However, I don’t have the aggregated data at present.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbais-kasturba-hospital-to-start-genome-sequencing-101621100224136.html
15-05-2021||Mumbai||Four inmates die of Covid in Maharashtra jails in a fortnight||Four prisoners have died of Covid in state prisons in last two weeks. The casualties occurred in Mumbai’s Arthur Road central jail, Byculla’s women’s prison, Taloja prison and Nagpur prison. Cases of active cases of Covid among prisoners have also slightly increased in last two weeks.According to the prison officials, till April 30, a total of nine Covid deaths were reported across the jails in state. The death toll jumped to 13 till May 14. Currently, there are 411 active cases in state jails, which includes 317 prisoners and 94 prison staffs. The maximum active cases have been reported in Kolhapur jail (83) and Thane prison (66), a jail officer said.Seeing surge in cases of infection in the second wave the prison authority had decided to carry out random testings in jails. As a result of this drive last month, major outbreak of Covid was detected in Byculla’s women prisons where nearly 40 prisoners were found Covid-19 positive, including the Sheena Bora murder case accused Indrani Mukerjea. Most of them have recovered now.Since last April, prison authorities have conducted 69,818 Covid-19 tests across 47 prisons and jail administrative offices in the state. A total of 3,757 prisoners tested positive for Covid-19, of which 13 have succumbed to the disease. 3,427 infected inmates have recovered fully. To minimise the impact of the infectious disease in jails, the prison authority last month has started building ‘two-tier protection’ system. Along with temporary prisons, that were set up last year across the state, this year the arrangements are also made for Covid care centres with the help of the local administration.If a new prisoner is to be lodged in a jail, they will have to mandatorily undergo Covid testing and spend 14 days at a quarantine centre (temporary prison), irrespective of their test results. The prisoner will be admitted to a regular jail only if they show no symptoms after 14 days.If a prisoner shows any symptoms during their stay at the centre, they will be shifted to a Covid care centre for treatment. If their condition deteriorates, they will be hospitalised. This way, confirmed cases and suspected ones will be separated. This system will keep an effective check on the entry of infected prisoners in jails, thereby preventing further spread of the infectious disease in jails, claims a prison officer.As prison authority believe that the main reason for the spread of the virus in jails is overcrowding, hence jail superintendents across the state are working in close coordination with the undertrial review committees, headed by sessions judges, to enable regular review of decongestion of prisons, a senior prison officer said.Since March 2020, around 10,900 inmates have been released to reduce overcrowding. Approximately 34,000 inmates are lodged against capacity of 24,000 in prisons of Maharashtra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/four-inmates-die-of-covid-in-maharashtra-jails-in-a-fortnight-101621100164084.html
15-05-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Four clean-up Marshall arrested on extortion charges||MIDC police booked five clean-up marshals and arrested four of them for demanding ₹1 lakh extortion from a private company. They claimed the firm had not followed Covid-19 protocol and the money is to not take action against them.Police said one of the five accused first extorted ₹20,000 on April 21. But on Friday, four accused again visited the company and demanded more money saying the firm owner was not wearing mask.The company owner informed the police and the four were arrested. “The private agency the five accused belonged to has been authorised by Mumbai civic body for collecting fines from those not wearing mask and spitting in public places. But their jurisdiction was limited to penalising pedestrians or those violating rules in public places. They were not authorised to enter any private premises or company and take action. Hence they have been booked under extortion charges,” said deputy commissioner of police (zone 10) Maheshwar Reddy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-four-clean-up-marshall-arrested-on-extortion-charges-101621100104079.html
15-05-2021||Mumbai||Change in Covid-19 vaccine protocol a breather for Maharashtra government||After the Union government extended the period between the two doses of Covishield from six to eight weeks to 12-16 weeks, the state health department said that people should not rush to vaccination centres before 84 days from their first shot. The change in the protocol by the Centre has given some breather to the state government which had turned its focus to complete the second dose of nearly 1.6 million people across the state.The state government now has stock that would last for around three days, officials said. With the change in protocol, a chunk of the Covishield doses that were kept to give the second jab to people will now be also used for the first doses. There is no change in protocol for the second dose of Covaxin.State immunization officer DN Patil said that the health department has notified all vaccination centres about the change. However, people will not be turned back from the centre if they wish to take the shot after six weeks, Patil said. “We have issued an advisory to all districts to give the second dose after 84 days, per the Centre’s guidelines. But people will not be stopped to take vaccine after six weeks, unless the change is made in the Co-WIN app, restricting them to schedule booking,” Patil said.According to Patil, the state would now have around 500,000 to 600,000 Covishield doses and about 100,000 Covaxin doses. “The stock that is at the centres now is expected to last us about two to three days. We are not expecting any fresh stock before next Monday or Tuesday. The doses that were earlier kept for second doses are being used for first doses after the change in protocol,” Patil said. The state is inching closer to the 20-million mark in vaccination, as it administered 192,438 doses. As of Saturday, the state has administered 19,911,343 doses, of which 4,206,220 are second doses. The state is expected to surpass the landmark on Sunday.Meanwhile, Maharashtra on Saturday went past a grim landmark of 80,000 deaths due to Covid-19 as it added 960 fatalities, taking the death toll to 80,512. The state continued to see fewer cases on Saturday, while the positivity rate also dropped. Maharashtra added 34,848 fresh Covid-19 cases to its tally with a positivity rate of 14.68%. The active cases came under 500,000 to reach 494,032, while the total tally rose to 5,344,063.Mumbai reported 1,450 fresh cases, taking its tally to 686,295. The active cases in the city declined to 34,083. The state has recorded nearly 29,000 deaths between February 15 and May 15. The second wave of the Covid-19 has been particularly deadly for the state as it saw 28,960 fatalities in the last three months, averaging 9,650 deaths every month. Between the outbreak in Maharashtra in March 2020 and February 15, 2021, the state had recorded 51,552 deaths—an average of around 4,685 deaths a month.Though the overall cases are declining in the state, some districts continue to report a high number of cases. The state health department has identified 15 districts including Ahmednagar, Kolhapur, Sangli, Ratnagiri, Beed, Buldhana, Yavatmal, and Chandrapur, where the surge continues. Officials said that they have ramped up the testing drive along with increasing the hospital beds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/change-in-covid-19-vaccine-protocol-a-breather-for-maharashtra-government-101621100044120.html
15-05-2021||Chandigarh||Black fungus a notified disease in Haryana: Vij||Haryana health minister Anil Vij on Saturday said that black fungus has been declared a notified disease in state.The black fungus infection, also known as mucormycosis, is caused by a fungus called mucor.Vij said if a patient is diagnosed with black fungus in any government or private hospital, it will have to be reported to the chief medical officer of the district so that steps can be taken to contain the disease.He said senior doctors of PGIMS, Rohtak will conduct video conferencing with all doctors who are treating Covid in state and will inform them about treatment of the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/black-fungus-a-notified-disease-in-haryana-vij-101621098185617.html
15-05-2021||Other||People dying of Covid in rural areas of Haryana, says Surjewala||Congress general secretary Randeep Singh Surjewala on Saturday alleged that the BJP government is responsible for forcing farmers to continue their agitation against Centre’s three farm laws amid the Covid-19 pandemic as it has failed to address their grievances.“The government did not hold talks with the farmers for the last many months and forced them to continue their dharna at a time when Covid-19 cases are increasing across country,” he added.Making a sharp attack on the BJP-JJP government, Surjewala said the Haryana government has failed to provide healthcare facilities to its residents and has left them alone to arrange doctors, medicines and cylinders on their own.“I don’t know what the BJP-JJP government is doing. The Delhi government is getting 700 MT oxygen on 85,000 active cases while the Haryana government is receiving 282 MT oxygen in papers and actually getting less than 225 MT. Twelve of 22 districts in Haryana are receiving only 0.5 MT oxygen each,” he added.He, along with party’s Haryana affairs in-charge Viveik Bansal, launched Congress’ ‘Seva and Samarpan’ campaign in Jind to provide oxygen and medicines to the needy.“More than 18,000 people have died in rural areas in Haryana over the past few days as per media reports and people have no testing, tracing or treating facility in villages,” he said.The Congress leaders distributed masks and sanitized the city. “Ministers, MPs and MLAs of the BJP-JJP government are not receiving phone calls of people who are reaching out to them for oxygen, beds and medicines,” Bansal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/people-dying-of-covid-in-rural-areas-of-haryana-says-surjewala-101621098064491.html
15-05-2021||Chandigarh||500-bed hospitals come up in Haryana’s Panipat, Hisar||In an effort to ramp up medical infrastructure, the Haryana government has set up two 500-bed temporary Covid hospitals in Panipat and Hisar.Two more hospitals - a 100-bed field hospital and a 300-bed Covid care centre - have been set up in Gurugram. Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar will inaugurate these hospitals on May 16.An official spokesperson said the temporary Covid hospital established at Bal Jatan village near the Indian Oil refinery in Panipat has been named Guru Tegh Bahadur Sanjivani Covid Hospital.Union petroleum minister Dharmendra Pradhan and Haryana health minister Anil Vij will be present at the inauguration of the hospital.A team of 25 doctors and 150 paramedical staff have been appointed for functioning of Sanjivani Hospital.The spokesperson said roads have been built to connect the hospital blocks. Five mini-bus ambulances of Haryana Roadways and two ambulances from the refinery will support the movement of patients to the Covid hospital. Five ambulances from the police department will also give support for this hospital.The spokesperson said the hospital in Hisar is named Chaudhary Devi Lal Sanjivani Hospital. Oxygen supply in this hospital will be supplied from the plant of Jindal Steel Industries. A supply of 8 MT oxygen per day has been arranged.The 100-bed Covid Field Hospital at Tau Devi Lal Stadium in Gurugram has been set up by Vedanta. It has 20 ICUs and 80 oxygen beds. Vedanta will provide all necessary medical equipment for treatment of Covid patients.Apart from this, a 300-bed Covid care centre has been set up in Sector 67, Gurugram in collaboration with real estate developer M3M, CII, Air Force and Doctors for You.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/500bed-hospitals-come-up-in-haryana-s-panipat-hisar-101621097887737.html
15-05-2021||Other||Deoghar admn starts bike ambulance service for Covid patients||In a first, the Deoghar district administration on Saturday launched five bike ambulances to provide timely and accessible service to Covid-19 patients in rural areas.Flagging off the service, deputy commissioner (DC) Manjunath Bhajantri said, “The bike ambulance will not only provide primary health service to people but will also save time on congested lanes and roads where general ambulances get stuck.”Officials concerned have been directed to ensure masks, sanitizers, and PPE kits to riders of bike ambulances, the DC said.Deoghar recorded 1,396 active cases after discovering 81 new cases till Friday night.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/deoghar-admn-starts-bike-ambulance-service-for-covid-patients-101621097826903.html
15-05-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana records 9,676 new Covid cases, 144 deaths||Haryana recorded 9,676 new Covid-19 cases and 144 deaths on Saturday.As per the medical bulletin, 12,593 patients recovered on Saturday and the number of active cases stood at 95,946.Gurugram with 27,985 active cases accounted for about one-third of the total active cases followed by Faridabad (8,666), Hisar (8,263), Panipat (5,481), Sirsa (5,109) and Karnal (4,895).The daily sample positivity rate came down to 15.76% and the cumulative positivity rate was 8.36%. The recovery rate improved to 85.04%, the bulletin said. There are 1,759 critically ill patients, including 597 on ventilator support.Among the dead, 18 persons were from Gurugram, 16 from Hisar, 13 from Jind, 10 from Rohtak, nine each from Faridabad and Ambala, eight from Bhiwani, seven each from Karnal, Yamunanagar and Rewari, six from Charkhi Dadri, five each from Kurukshetra and Panipat, four from Fatehabad, three each from Sirsa, Panchkula, Mahendergarh, Palwal and Sonepat, two each from Jhajjar and Nuh and one from Kaithal.NUMBER OF INFECTED INMATES IN KARNAL JAIL RISES TO 223
15-05-2021||Ranchi||Positivity rate dips to 9% from 16%||Jharkhand, for the first time in over three weeks of the ongoing lockdown, saw a significant drop in weekly detection of number of Covid-19 cases and positivity rate (number of positive cases per hundred samples tested)., with the latter dropping to 9% in the third week (May 6-12) of lockdown. Prior to this week, the positivity rate stood at 16% in the second week (April 29-5) of the ongoing lockdown. The weekly detection of cases also came down to 38,142 in the third week from 41,626 cases in the second week.The decline in cases and positivity rate indicates the spread of infection has slowed down. Noticing a steep surge in Covid-19 cases in the first three weeks of April, the state government clamped a partial lockdown in the fourth week (April 22-28), that has been extended further with certain new embargo.While the state has now entered the fourth week (May 13-19) of the lockdown, the first two weeks saw a decline in growth of cases, but reported a significant rise in positivity rate.The state discovered 44,133 cases in the first week (April 22-28) of lockdown. These cases were detected after testing 322,392 samples, with 13.68% positivity rate, meaning thereby that every 100 samples tested, at least 13 returned positive.The second week (April 29-May 5), however, brought witnessed stricter norms and the growth of positive cases registered a 5.68% decline in comparison to the first week. The state unearthed 41,626 cases in between April 29-May 5. The positivity rate, however, didn’t go down, but jumped to 16.25% from the previous week of 13.68%, as 41,626 cases were discovered after testing 256,134 samples.But the third week (May 6-12), for the first time after the pandemic’s second wave hit the state in early April, saw a drop in cases as well as the positivity rate.With 9% positivity rate, the state detected 38,142 cases after testing 421,479 samples in between May 6-12. Comparing these figures with the previous week, the growth of cases and positivity rate both dipped significantly.The state reported weekly positivity rates of 4.85%, 7.16%, 10.96%, 13.68%, 16.25% and 9% in April 1-7, April 8-14, April 15-21, April 22-28, April 29-May 5 and May 6-12, respectively.Health experts, however, opined that the lockdown has greatly impacted the fast spread of infection.Dr Dewesh Kumar, assistant professor of department of preventive and social medicine, RIMS, said, “The lockdown has definitely slowed down the spread of the disease. Besides, people are more alert now. If we see the results of sample tests conducted at RIMS laboratory, we can say that positivity rate has gone down. We had seen positivity rate as high as 45% on April 17, when 278 positive cases were detected after testing 605 samples. This has been coming down gradually. We have also been noticing that there has been a significant decline in number of people seeking beds and consultation through telemedicine. This shows a positive trend as the rush in hospitals is gradually waning.”According to health department’s Covid-19 bulletin on May 14, the state has so far reported 310,024 cases including 260,602 recoveries, 45,056 active cases and 4,366 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/positivity-rate-dips-to-9-from-16-101621097764019.html
15-05-2021||Other||Shahabuddin’s aide shot dead||PATNAA history sheeter, an ex-aide of former Siwan MP Mohammad Shahabuddin who died of Covid a fortnight back in New Delhi while in incarceration, was shot dead by unidentified assailants near Siwan on Saturday.The deceased was identified as Mohammad Babar. “Babar faced around 24 criminal cases. His name recently cropped up in connection with abduction of one Mohammad Riyajuddin,” said a police official.Siwan’s superintendent of police Abhinav Kumar said the incident took place around 7 am when Babar was going somewhere. “His vehicle was intercepted by other vehicles in which the assailants were travelling. Before Babar could understand anything, they started firing indiscriminately. Around 25 rounds were fired.” Babar died on the spot. The SP said preliminary probe pointed to the involvement of Riyazuddin, a rival of Babar. “In April, Riyazuddin was abducted after being released from jail. Babar was the named accused in the case,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/shahabuddins-aide-shot-dead-101621097704015.html
15-05-2021||Other||Change in Covishield dose interval throws vaccination plan off-gear||PATNAThe Centre’s decision on Thursday to increase the gap between the first and second dose of the Covishield vaccine against coronavirus to 12-16 weeks has thrown Bihar’s vaccination plan awry. Bihar, which planned to vaccinate aggressively its 7.51 crore target population of 18 years and above by setting up vaccination centres at schools, similar to polling booths during elections, now finds that many of its beneficiaries, who took the first jab in March, are still not eligible for the second dose. Given the reluctance among the rural populace to take the vaccine, it is still not easy to get them to the vaccination centres. As a result, footfall at vaccination centres is dwindling. “Our planning has been hampered by recurrent changes in vaccination guidelines for Covishield. This is the third time in three months that the Central government has widened the interval between Covishield doses. This has also created confusion among the public,” said an officer associated with the vaccination programme in the state. Patna district immunisation officer Dr SP Vinayak said many people were enquiring why the interval between doses of Covishield was being changed frequently while that of Covaxin was constant (4-6 weeks). “We tell them we have to follow government guidelines,” he said. The revised recommendations come as several states, including Bihar, experience a shortage of vaccines. Bihar could vaccinate 124,104 people on Saturday as against 116,441 on Friday. A few high caseload states of coronavirus like Maharashtra and Karnataka have halted vaccination for their 18-44 years population and diverted vaccines for 45 years and above people, especially those who have received the first shot, but couldn’t take the second jab due to paucity of vaccines. Though Bihar has no immediate plans to curb vaccination for the younger age group, its vaccine availability is low. The Centre had communicated an allocation of 7,64,850 doses of Covishield and 2,52,040 doses of Covaxin for the first fortnight of this month. However, the state was yet to receive 1,27,040 doses of Covaxin for the 45 years and above population till May 14, said sources. Similarly, in the 18-44 years age category, Bihar’s allocation of Covishield was 16,39,250 doses, but the state had received 8,85,000 doses. For Covaxin, the allocation was 4,12,450 doses, but it had received 1,12,450 doses. The state was left with 3,28,530 doses of vaccines for the 45+ population and 5,51,140 doses for the 18-44 years age group, as per government figures available till May 13.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/change-in-covishield-dose-interval-throws-vaccination-plan-offgear-101621097644741.html
15-05-2021||Other||Bihar, UP border districts resolve cremation issues||BHABUAOfficials of bordering districts of Ghazipur in Uttar Pradesh and Kaimur in Bihar have resolved the problem of cremations along the banks of river Ganga that the locals were facing ever since bodies were recovered from the river in the area.As per an agreement between the administration of the two neighbouring districts, people from Bihar would be allowed to use nearby cremation ghats in UP if they have made arrangements of firewood and related material for a proper funeral, said Kaimur’s superintendent of police Rakesh Kumar.The arrangement included firewood and other materials needed during the funeral.Bihar Police have also set up checkpoints on roads approaching UP where officials were registering the names, addresses and phone numbers of people accompanying a body. They share the information with their UP counterparts to allow the funeral. The arrangement has been made to ensure bodies are not disposed of in Ganga river without cremation, SP Kumar said.Ghazipur SP Dr Om Prakash Singh said there was no ban on entry of bodies from Bihar for funeral. The administration was only ensuring bodies are not thrown in Ganga, he said.Singh said urban local bodies in towns and block development officers in rural areas have been directed to arrange firewood for bodies whose kin were helpless and unable to purchase it. People in Kaimur and Rohtas districts of south-west Bihar traditionally go to Varanasi to cremation of their loved ones, but the waiting time at their preferred Manikarnika ghat in Varanasi has gone up to 20-24 hours due to rising Covid deaths. Now, the people from these districts prefer to go to Zamania in bordering Ghazipur district in UP for cremations. Because of the sudden surge of crowds, firewood has become dearer at Zaminia, tehsildar Ghanshyam said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bihar-up-border-districts-resolve-cremation-issues-101621097645310.html
15-05-2021||Other||Quackery adds to Covid toll in rural areas||ARARavi Shankar Singh (30), an employee of Indian Oil Corporation at Gidda in Bhojpur district, developed fever a few days back. Instead of consulting doctors, he just visited the medicine shop and took medicines as advised by the shop owner. There was no relief and suddenly his oxygen level went down after a few days. He was rushed to Ara Sadar Hospital on May 10 but died on May 11, said his cousin R R Singh.Chandan Singh of Chandi village said his uncle Arun Pratap Singh (45) developed fever, cold, cough and breathing problem in the last week of April. He took medicines as advised by quacks for a day and was rushed to a private clinic the very next day at Ara. All along, his oxygen level kept on falling. He was referred to Ara Sadar Hospital where he died.In Chandi village of Bhojpur district alone, 10 people have died over the last three weeks, mostly affected with Covid symptoms, including falling oxygen level. Pramod Singh of Chandi village said, “Out of them, seven to eight had breathing problems. Most of them instead preferred to take advice from quacks present at Chandi market. Those who died were mostly in the age group of 40 to 60 years.”Jaga Kushwaha, a social activist and resident of Chandi, who also lost a relative to Covid-19, said almost 90% residents of adjoining villages had been suffering from fever, cough and breathing problems. “There is no doubt that the facilities of testing and treatment are limited, but the people at large are wary of getting tested for Covid-19. They rely on local quacks,” he says.Kushwaha also blames the non-functional health centres as the reason behind people’s growing reliance on quacks.“There is a health and wellness centre at the village, but they are run by ANMs (auxiliary nursing midwifery). Doctor never comes,” he said. Manju Devi, a resident of Narhi, adjacent to Chandi village, said the administration should distribute masks and sanitize the village, but it has not been done. Dr Navin Kumar, in-charge of the nearest primary health centre at Koilwar, said health centres are run by ANMs themselves. “There are three doctors at PHC Koilwar. Doctors are not appointed at health centres. It is not possible for doctors to reach at each and every health centre under the PHC of Koilwar regularly. I have no information about deaths in large numbers at Chandi village,” said Dr Kumar. Of late, Covid cases in districts with more rural population have been increasing. For example, on Friday, Begusarai reported 334 cases, Gaya 285, Madhubani 360, Samastipur 392, Vaishali 353 etc., to name a few.Bhohpur reported 29 cases on Friday and its total active cases stood at 602. The district has so far reported 28 deaths.Leader of Opposition in Bihar assembly, Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, had recently raised the issue. “76% of the affected people in Bihar are now in rural areas, but there is no facility,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/quackery-adds-to-covid-toll-in-rural-areas-101621097644074.html
15-05-2021||Other||BKU to prepare list of corona deaths in villages||MEERUT The Bharatiya Kisan Union( BKU) leaders and activists will expose the alleged under reporting of Covid-19 deaths in villages by collecting and compiling details of victims. The state government launched a special drive from May 5 to detect corona cases in villages and claimed to be carrying out adequate testing and treatment. But BKU leaders alleged that the situation was grim in villages and due to resource crunch, the government was under-reporting corona deaths. BKU’s state spokesperson Dharnendra Malik said that villagers were fearful and the government had failed to provide facilities of proper testing and treatment. People were suffering from fever and dying in villages and in most of the cases deaths are being under reported, with hapless villagers silently cremating bodies of their dear and near in villages. Malik said that taking stock of the situation, the BKU had directed its activists in villages across the state to collect details of suspected Covid 19 deaths in their villages and send them to the union. “ Union activists and leaders have already started collecting details and hope that lists from villages would be made available in a week or so”, said Malik. BKU Saharanpur division’s general secretary Raju Ahlawat claimed that the situation in villages was grim, but officials had their own way of functioning. They overlooked complaints and concerns shown by union leaders and instead of understanding pain and sufferings of people. Citing example of his village Bhainsi in Muzaffarnagar district, Ahlawat claimed that the village had panchayat poll on April 19 and barely a few days after that people started showing corona symptoms. “At least 18 people died in one month in the village and hundreds are still suffering from fever,” said Ahlawat, expressing anger for under-reporting deaths in villages. He said, “ We need actual data of deaths and people suffering from Covid 19 so that the real situation of villages may be known.” He questioned how a government could evolve policies and facilities with fudged data. Harnam Singh Verma, BKU Lucknow division president, said that he had also mobilized union activists in villages to prepare the list and hoped that it would be prepared within a week. He also said that there was a mismatch between data of Covid-19 deaths released by the government and reality. Verma said that his village Naubasta Kala was situated barely 2 kms from Chinhat and more than two dozen people had died after showing corona like symptoms, but government data showed very few deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bku-to-prepare-list-of-corona-deaths-in-villages-101621096804016.html
15-05-2021||Other||Chitrakoot jail shoot-out:Jail staff hand suspectedin smuggling pistol inside||Lucknow: The way notorious shooter Anshu Dixit managed to get a pistol smuggled inside Chitrakoot jail despite multiple checks at the entrance round the clock, had puzzled investigators, said senior police officials privy to the probe. Anshu used the pistol to kill two gangsters Mukeem alias Kala and Meraj Ahmad alias Merajudeen inside the prison before being shot dead in police firing on Friday. The officials said preliminary investigation hinted towards the involvement of jail personnel, as no outsider was allowed inside. To note, the family members of prisoners are not allowed to visit since the pandemic outbreak in March 2020. The state government has already suspended jail superintendent SP Tripathi and jailor Mahendra Pal, holding them responsible for the security lapses initially and ordered departmental enquiry. A senior official said initial probe hinted that there was only way to smuggle a firearm inside the jail: by hiding it in eatables and ration packets supplied for prisoners. He said the sequence of the incident also hinted that Dixit was provided the firearm during the breakfast hour. “Breakfast was given to prisoners at around 9.30 am on Friday. At the same time, we heard a bullet staccato and rushed towards the high security barrack where Anshu Dixit and Meraj Ahmad were lodged together since the latter was shifted to Chitrakoot jail on May 7,” said the official, sharing the statement given by a jail guard during the probe. The official said Anshu Dixit opened fire on Meraj Ahmad after two other inmates gave him breakfast and left his barrack.. “After shooting Meraj Ahmad, Dixit walked towards the near-by barrack where Mukeem alias Kala was lodged along with some other prisoners and shot him dead after a short conversation. Dixit was later gunned down in police firing when he held some prisoners hostage after returning to his barrack,” he said. Planned shoot-out ? No specific motive, unprovoked firing as well as open latches of the barrack’s gate were some points suggesting a planned shoot-out, said senior officials privy to the investigation. “So far we are had unable to find any motive behind Anshu Dixit killing the two gangsters. No personal or gang rivalry has surfaced during the probe,” he an official said, adding, “There was nothing to suggest that Anshu was asked to eliminate the duo and was provided the firearm inside the jail.” He said the gates of Anshu’s as well as Mukeem’s barrack were found open during the incident. He said Anshu came out of his barrack after shooting dead Meraj Ahmad and then entered Mukeem’s barrack. The question is : were the gates of the two barrack intentionally left open? Sources also claimed that CCTV cameras installed in the gallery where the incident happened were not functional for many months. They said the investigators had not able to find any video footage of the incident that could help in solving the mystery behind the unprovoked firing by Anshu. Anshu ensured death of both The post-mortem examination of the bodies of the three gangsters killed in the shootout revealed that Anshu shot Meraj Ahmad thrice before pumping over 10 bullets into Mukeem’s body. He himself was later killed in police firing. The post-mortem examination revealed that Anshu suffered over 16 gunshots. Anshu had over two dozen bullets The investigation suggested that Anshu fired over 15 rounds of bullets to eliminate Meraj Ahmad and Mukeem and over 10 rounds when he held five prisoners hostage and police team was asking him to surrender.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/chitrakoot-jail-shoot-out-jail-staff-hand-suspectedin-smuggling-pistol-inside-101621096623951.html
15-05-2021||Lucknow||281 more die of Covid-19 in UP; state reports 12,547 fresh cases||Uttar Pradesh on Saturday registered 281 fresh COVID-19 fatalities, raising the death toll to 17,283, while the infection count climbed to 16,09,140 with 12,547 more cases, according to the official data.Of the fresh Covid-19 deaths, Meerut reported 19 fatalities, Chandauli 15, Kanpur 14, Lucknow and Auriaya 12 each. Ten deaths each were reported from Jhansi and Gautam Buddh Nagar, the state government said in a statement issued here.Of the 12,547 new cases, 879 were reported from Meerut, 801 from Gorakhpur and 617 from Lucknow.A total of 28,404 Covid-19 patients recovered from the disease in the past 24 hours in the state, taking the total number of those recovered so far to 14,14,259.The number of active Covid-19 cases in the state stands at 1,77,643, the statement said.More than 2.56 lakh samples were tested in the past 24 hours. So far, over 4.44 crore samples have been tested in the state, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/281-more-die-of-covid-19-in-up-state-reports-12-547-fresh-cases-101621095687687.html
15-05-2021||Bangalore||Home isolation not allowed in rural areas and urban slums of Karnataka: Govt||The Karnataka government on Saturday decided not to allow home isolation of Covid patients in rural areas and slums in urban regions, and to make necessary arrangements to ensure they get admitted mandatorily in Covid Care Centres (CCCs).At the meeting of the state's Covid task force held here today, several decisions were made with regard to ICU beds, oxygenated beds, vaccination, drugs and consumables procurement, black fungal mitigation, and strengthening of health infrastructure in both rural and urban areas."In rural areas also Covid infected are currently going for home isolation. It has been decided to stop this immediately and all those infected should be admitted to isolation centres or CCCs for treatment," Deputy Chief Minister C N Ashwath Narayan said.Speaking to reporters after the meeting, the DCM who also heads the task force said, CCCs will be established at PHC level.The DCM said at the meeting it was decided to start administering the first dose of Covishield for those above 45."As the gap between first and the second dose of the Covishield vaccination has been increased from 4-6 week duration to 12-16 weeks, it has been decided to give a second dose to those whose are due and to start administering first dose to those above 45.It was earlier decided to stop first dose until those due for second are completed," he said.However in the case of Covaxin, it has been decided to administer the second dose to those above 45 years who are due on priority and then start administering the first dose, he said, adding that "for those between 18-45 years, it has been decided to give vaccine after the app that is being developed is interfaced with COVIN app."The subject of global tender for vaccines also came up at the taskforce meeting and it has been approved, Narayan said. "We will be sourcing it from various companies.""Earlier it was mentioned about sourcing 2 crore vaccines from one company, now it has been decided to split it into four with 50 lakh vaccines each," he said.Global tender for vaccines needs funding of ₹843 crore and the task force approved this, a release from his office said. It has also been decided to vaccinate more front line workers and those providing essential services on priority, like those working with banking, postal and internet services, and those who come in contact with the public, the DCM said.It has been decided to consider those working at crematorum as frontline workers and also to provide them with insurance under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana, he added.It was decided at the meeting that in every district hospital 100 ICU beds shall be made available on a permanent basis, and for this, required infrastructure and manpower need to be provided and all these should have oxygen generating units.According to the release, the Centre will be asked to provide 20,000 vials of Amphotericin B to tackle black fungal infections as there is shortage of the drug and it is estimated that about 400 cases are expected per week in the days to come.Oxygen bottling plants will be set up in 9 districts that do not have this facility.Oxygen generators of 200-300 ltr/minute will be set up in community health centres. All the beds will be oxygenated in all taluk hospitals and to facilitate this, oxygen generators of capacity 500-600 ltr/minute will be set up, it said. Global tender will be issued to procure 5 lakh Remdesivir injections and ₹75 Crore kept reserved for this purpose.Also it has been decided to procure 1 lakh pulse oximeters, and to set up 100 bedded secondary hospitals in each assembly constituency of Bengaluru and 1 tertiary care hospital for every 4 constituencies.On relieving the city civic body, Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike, from the responsibility of health management of the city, the release, quoting the DCM, said, the task force decided to review bifurcating the health management system in Bengaluru and proposed to move it to Health and Family department.However, to make this a reality certain technical issues need to be studied and a committee will be constituted to look into this and will be asked to submit the report at the next meeting of the task force, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/home-isolation-not-allowed-in-rural-areas-and-urban-slums-of-karnataka-govt-101621094754871.html
15-05-2021||Chandigarh||Police’s bike squad delivers meals to Covid patients||After a steep increase in the number of coronavirus infections in the district, the police have tied up with a local NGO to deliver cooked meals to patients in home isolation who are unable to arrange for food. A police control room (PCR) motorcycle team has been delivering food to needy patients and has already catered to at least 20 patients. The move comes after Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh and director general of police (DGP) Dinkar Gupta issued directions to launch Covid canteens in all districts.Deputy commissioner of police (DCP, law and order) Ashwani Kapoor is the nodal officer for the initiative in Ludhiana. Kapoor along with four assistant commissioners of police (ACPs) — ACP traffic Gurdev Singh, ACP crime-1 Mandeep Singh, ACP crime-2 Surinder Mohan and ACP command centre Naveen Kumar are ensuring that only those in genuine need are availing the service. Covid patients can call on the helpline numbers 181 and 112 to seek the police’s help in getting cooked food delivered. Personnel in the PCR will collect the address and contact details of the caller and share it with teams, who will verify the details of the caller and check their Covid report.Patients who have availed of the service once need not call every day. “After receiving the first call, we will provide two meals (lunch and dinner) a day to the patient until he or she is under isolation,” said the DCP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/polices-bike-squad-delivers-meals-to-covid-patients-101621094343933.html
15-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra records 34,848 new Covid-19 cases, 960 deaths in last 24 hours||Maharashtra recorded 34,848 new Covid-19 cases on Saturday, taking the state-wide tally to 53,44,063. This marks a decline from the 39,923 cases recorded on Friday. With 960 deaths recorded in the last 24 hours, the death toll now stands at 80,512. A total of 2,37,264 samples were tested in the state today.Saturday marks the seventh consecutive day of Maharashtra recording less than 50,000 daily cases. The state had recorded 53,605 cases on May 8, daily cases have been on the decline since then.Capital city Mumbai recorded 1,450 new cases of Covid-19 in the last 24 hours, pushing the city-wide tally to 686,295. This marked a slight decline from the 1,660 cases reported on Friday. With 62 fatalities, the city also recorded less than 100 deaths.59,073 patients were discharged after they recovered from the infection, pushing the number of total recoveries to 47,67,053. The state had witnessed 53,249 discharges on Friday. The recovery rate now stands at a high 89.2%.The Union health ministry said on Saturday that Maharashtra leads the list of states where active cases of Covid-19 has been declining since the last 15 days. Out of 2,37,264 samples tested in the state, 34,848 turned out to be positive, taking the positivity rate of 17.3%. Currently, 34,47,653 are under home quarantine, and 28,727 people have been placed under institutional quarantine, said the government health bulletin.The state is also bracing for some disturbances in certain parts due to cyclone Tauktae and is currently under a lockdown that was extended till June 1 on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-records-34-848-new-covid-19-cases-960-deaths-in-last-24-hours-101621091871188.html
15-05-2021||Chandigarh||Wildbuzz: Chandigarh’s pretty chicks||A definitive indicator of habitat acceptance by a wild creature is that the species is able to breed and rear its offspring to maturity. So it is with the grey partridge (francolin), an iconic bird of the North-west Indian countryside facing a rapid decline in numbers in its stronghold habitats, but one that has adapted and settled down in the heart of Chandigarh. It can be encountered in parks in pairs or small coveys or perched on boundary walls like a common dove or babbler. At the sprawling and verdant complex of the Government College for Girls, Sector 11, birder and conservationist Vikas Salil Sharma has photo-documented the successful breeding of partridges, a species whose reproductive season is currently underway.Zoologist and author Dr Rajive Kalsi has undertaken extensive field research and conducted radio collar studies on the breeding ecology and conservation status of partridges. He explains why this bird has been able to breed successfully in an urban habitat. “Chandigarh sports mature trees which partridges use to roost at night and be safe from ground predators. The city is landscaped with shrubs, hedges and bushes and these not only provide cover to partridges but are the habitat for insects, which partridge chicks feed exclusively on. The city has abundant ‘deemak’, which chicks relish. The grey partridge, as compared to the black partridge, is a bolder species and ventures into new areas to find suitable habitat. Hence, the grey partridge adaptability to diverse habitats. Hunting and trapping is of relatively low incidence in the city. Finally, the application of pesticides is lesser in the city as compared to the partridge’s traditional habitats spanning the agriculture-jungle-scrubland mosaic. Pesticides constitute the main factor for partridge decline in the countryside,” Dr Kalsi told this writer. Beauty at our feetThe soil from where these violet flowers bloom is riddled with pebbles and is stone-dry. Hugging the ground in humility, the blooms smile at the clear sky even though they lie bang in the centre of a winding cattle track that leads over the Mirzapur check dam’s embankment to the waters below. The cattle’s heavy hooves have somehow missed these flowers attended by fabulously fiendish, upright thorns, festive yellow berries and greenish, deeply-lobed leaves that resemble a human palm with more than five, awkwardly jutting and stubby fingers. This lovely shrub inhabiting the arid terrain of the Shivalik foothills goes by the intriguing common English names of dwarf wild brinjal, Jacquin’s nightshade, prickly brinjal, prickly nightshade, Thai eggplant, thorny nightshade and yellow-berried nightshade. In Punjabi, it is known as kandiali, chhoti mauhari or unt katara and in Hindi as kantkari. It is recognised in the scientific world by the botanical nomenclature of Solanum virginianum.Despite its seemingly unobtrusive life at the mercy of the various clumsy feet of men and big beasts that may trod and trample over it at the peril of inviting a thorny jab, derivatives of this shrub are an important ingredient in the preparation of the ayruvedic dashmool formulation used in the treatment of cough, asthma and chest complaints. Pastes derived from the shrub find application in traditional and folklore medicines, too. As a research study pointed out while underscoring the pharma potential of Solanum virginianum: “Herbal medicines are of growing interest because of their cost effective and eco-friendly attributes.”So, the next time when out for a nature ramble in the Shivaliks, pay attention to the beauty and utility of these self-effacing shrubs that lie at your feet and smile up at you amid the perennial adversity of existence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/wildbuzz-chandigarh-s-pretty-chicks-101621091530284.html
15-05-2021||Chandigarh||Not just women rights, men’s lives matter too!||“Tell me, do wives frequently harass their husbands or is the incidence directly proportional to the number of years of marriage?” an unmarried friend asked me recently. I told her that it was indeed true in several cases. “Oh! this is completely new to me. I have heard of husbands harassing their wives and not vice versa,” she said, with a hearty laugh. As she fished for more information, I asked her to read the newspapers attentively every day. Many advertisements and movies show domestic violence against women, little realising that it is a two-way street. Incidentally, Aamir Khan’s TV show, Satyamev Jayate, had also observed that men do not suffer from marital hostility. Several years ago, a woman was conferred a socio-cultural award because she had the guts to incriminate her husband and in-laws in her marital home when she found that her husband was earning less than her! How did it matter who earned more when the money one earns is for mutual comfort? Legal terrorism : Guilty until proven innocent Around two decades ago, men became acutely aware of this legal terrorism by wives. False claims of dowry harassment leading to psychological abuse and incarceration of husbands became the norm. Once in custody, which is non-bailable, husbands generally lose their jobs. Who will reach out to such men in misery? A person is supposed to be innocent until proven guilty, but here a person is held guilty until proven innocent! Consequently, men have become gynophobic and have begun viewing the institution of marriage as a snare. This has put the institution in danger and has resulted in a reduced wedding rate in the country. As most men marry after becoming financially stable, the likelihood of losing their wealth and property due to false implications, has discouraged many a man from committing to a partner. Domestic violence against men is increasing in leaps and bounds and the novel-coronavirus lockdown has added to incidents of violence against the ‘stronger sex’. Most cases of domestic violence against men go unreported as they feel too humiliated to report abuse and fear false accusations against them in reprisal. Men activists have been asking for laws that are gender neutral and not women-centric because anti-dowry laws are often being misused to extort husbands and to harass them. Reversing trend in domestic violence These laws are responsible for the high rate of suicide among married men who are tortured by their wives and their relatives. A recent survey showed that around 65,000 married men had died by suicide against 28,000 married women. This certainly shows that the trend of domestic abuse is reversing. If a married woman commits suicide within seven years of marriage, her husband and his family are taken into police custody, whereas hardly any action is taken when a man ends his life due to the torture by his wife and in-laws. We must definitely empower women but not at the expense of men. After all, their lives matter too! (The writer is a former PGIMER professor)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/not-just-women-rights-men-s-lives-matter-too-101621091044452.html
15-05-2021||Chandigarh||Guest Column: Bar or bench - a tough balancing act amid Covid||The Punjab and Haryana high court and all courts subordinate to it in Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh, suspended their normal functioning in the third week of March 2020. The HC has been hearing a limited number of matters through video-conferencing mode. Things began to look up when the Centre and state governments began to open up all sectors of the economy. However, courts failed to keep pace with the sectors that were opening up. The limited listing of matters has adversely affected the livelihood of thousands of advocates and their associates. Since September 2020, the advocates have been demanding that steps be taken to normalise courts’ functioning in a phased manner. However, the demand hardly evoked a favourable response, which led to passing of a resolution dated February 1, demanding the transfer of the chief justice and boycotting his court until then. A middle path was struck where the court administration agreed to open courts for physical hearing in a phased manner and also agreed to make all courts functional through video-conferencing mode. The listing of fresh matters increased to approximately 1,000 cases per day, bringing respite to advocates and litigants. As the Covid curve steepened in April, the HC administration yet again started restricting the listing of cases from April 23. Only around 117 matters were listed for hearing on May 10 before 13 benches of the HC. Even anticipatory bails and other matters concerning life and liberty of citizens are not being listed. The bar association tried to prevail upon the HC administration to open up listing and hearing through video conferencing, but to no avail . Consequently, on May 7, the executive committee of the bar association decided to revive the resolution seeking transfer of the chief justice. The Bar Council of Punjab and Haryana was prompt to intervene and issued a letter highlighting the surge in virus cases and also delved on the safety of advocates, judges, judicial officers, and court staff. The bar council went ahead to stay the May 7 resolution . It is a matter of debate as to under what provision of law the bar council stayed the resolution passed by a bar association, which is an independent body registered under the Society Registration Act. During the last year, advocates’ income has drastically decreased. Unable to bear the cost of living in the tricity, many were forced to leave for their home towns and villages. Those who have stayed behind are struggling to make ends meet. An overwhelming majority of advocates, to borrow a phrase, have to virtually dig the well every day to drink water. The Bar Council has also not taken any tangible steps to alleviate the sufferings of the advocates in the last year. Experts are now predicting a third wave of infections, so Covid is here for the long haul. The Bar Council must also clarify its plans for advocates in case courts continue to work in a restricted manner for the rest the year. With listing of cases curtailed to such an extent, the high court administration should consider rescheduled the summer vacations to an earlier date along the lines of the Supreme Court and Allahabad HC. This will allow the HC to work through June. The former Chief Justice of India SA Bobde had once remarked, “The Bar is the mother of the bench. After all most judges commence their careers at the bar and then join the judiciary. All of us, I like to think, are co-parceners of an undivided family.” The chief justice of the HC is the karta of this undivided family and it is hoped that he will take into consideration the extreme hardship faced by a large number of family members and will perform a balancing act to address concerns of the bar and the bench. ( The writer is a practising advocate in Punjab and Haryana high court. Views expressed are personal)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/guest-column-bar-or-bench-a-tough-balancing-act-amid-covid-101621090504763.html
15-05-2021||Pune||NDRF deploys teams to Goa, Mumbai||In order to prepare and assist in the possible rescue and relief operations of cyclone Tauktae, the National disaster response force’s (NDRF) Pune unit has sent a team to Goa and three teams to Mumbai. “We have deployed three teams in Mumbai, one in Goa, and 14 teams are ready in Pune. These teams can be deployed in any part of the country in a short time. The cyclone is around 250-300km away from the western coastline. The possibility of it hitting Maharashtra will be either late night today or tomorrow morning. It is at quite a distance from Maharashtra. Therefore, the effect on Maharashtra’s coastal districts will be less. There may be wind and rainfall in some areas but to deal with this, the state government and NDRF are completely equipped,” said commandant Anupam Srivastav of NDRF. The teams left in the early hours of Saturday and is expected to have reached Goa by afternoon. “The Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) issued a weather forecast regarding pre-cyclone watch for south Gujarat and Diu coasts (Depression over Lakshadweep area). As per the forecast, it is very likely to intensify into a cyclonic storm during the next 24 hours and will possibly intensify further. It is very likely to move north-north-westwards and reach near Gujarat coast by May 18th morning and the warning has been issued for Lakshadweep Islands, Kerala, Tamil Nadu (ghat districts) and Karnataka (coastal and adjoining ghat districts),” read a press release by the Press Information Bureau (PIB) of India. IN Murthy, the operations official at corporate headquarters of the Airports Authority of India (AAI) in Delhi has directed all concerned airport officials to take measures. “Keeping safety in mind and to minimize damage to the airport infrastructure, airports are advised to plan as per as per the SoPs and guidelines. To safeguard the airport infrastructures, precautionary measures as per check lists for pre-cyclone and post-cyclone are being ensured by concerned airports,” read the PIB release.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/ndrf-deploys-teams-to-goa-mumbai-101621090144937.html
15-05-2021||Chandigarh||Guest column: What post-vax world looks like for kids||“Vaccines are magic.” The words of our microbiology professor in the ‘honeymoon phase’ of medical college resonate with me all the more now that I am a paediatrician. While the world was grappling with the novel coronavirus, scientists over the world were busy launching a defence of their own: vaccines. Much has already been said, heard and read about them, which can be summarised in three words – get your jab! For the time being, the vaccine will protect parents while the kids patiently wait for their turn. This divide prompts the question: What is the world going to look like for kids? The rules do not change for children. India is still at war with the virus, and a third wave, which is also likely to target children, looms large. Statistics reveal that 0.5-2% of paediatric cases were seen during the first wave, which has now increased to an alarming 8-10%. The reason for the virulence of the new strain among children is that the previous strain was known to attach itself to the ACE 2 receptor and multiply, which was not seen in paediatric cases due its low expression rates in kids. Thus, children mostly remained unscathed during the first wave of the pandemic. The B 1.617 strain has undergone mutations, which allow it to surpass antibodies and weaken immune defences. All age groups from newborns to teens have been testing positive for the virus. The second wave is expected to peak in mid-May and last for another four to six weeks. The Centre for Disease Control and Prevention has thus issued some guidelines on how to keep kids healthy during this grim time. What can parents do? In these difficult times, parents have a lot on their plate be it work from home, household chores or home-schooling. However, they can take a slew of steps to create a friendly environment at home by “being creative and searching for safe alternatives,” says epidemiologist Dr Yvones of Stanford. The alternatives include: •Visual Socialising : Going for online play dates, hobby classes, doing crafts or even watching a movie together once a week. •Outdoor activities: Kids may wear a mask and play outside with their friends in groups of two to three, which could include playing ball, lemon race and relay races. Infrequent play dates with the same family or friend who is also practising everyday preventive measures poses medium risk. •Birthday parties: Set up zoom calls, plan a movie night , fancy dress in the family, face painting or set up a bowling alley at home. What kids should do? The best way to teach children is to set an example. Since the virus is literally in our hands we must teach and re-teach the importance of: •Washing hands : With an alcohol-based soap for 20 seconds •Mask up: Children over five years require to wear a mask outside . They can wear a cloth mask but make sure it is washed before each use. Children less than two years should not wear a mask as they may suffocate. A surgical mask should be worn by children above five years in high-density areas or around Covid positive cases in their household. The mask should snugly fit and cover the nose. •Sanitisation: Sanitising hands before going for and after coming from grocery runs, playing outside and meeting people should be practised. Though the CDC does not recommend that children go out to grocery stores or to their friends’ houses. How to boost your child’s immunity? A well-rounded diet, good sleep and three basic supplements will do the trick: •Vitamin C : Co-factor to many metalloproteins, collagen formation and a powerful antioxidant, it is used in the defence mechanism of our bodies and is widely known to delay the progression of cold. •Vitamin D : Breast-fed children tend to have vitamin-D deficiency. It is imperative to treat the underlying deficiency as it may lead to increased inflammation and increased risk of pneumonia. •Zinc: Deficiency leads to stunted linear growth and impairs immune response towards infections. •Vaccination: Due to the pandemic, parents have not vaccinated their children against other diseases, which also influences and affects immunity. According to the Indian Academy of Paediatrics (IAP) guidelines, there is no contraindication of vaccination during the pandemic. Children in containment zones who have missed vaccines can have multiple vaccines in one sitting and using the minimum permitted interval between two doses of the same inactivated vaccine can be practised to complete the schedule in the shortest possible time. The light at the end of tunnel is vaccination for our kids. Pfizer has already formulated a vaccine for kids between 12-15 years of age, which will be produced by the end of this year or early 2022.We must understand that we do not live in a zero-risk world and need to evaluate our risks prudently before letting our guard down since our children do not live in bubbles anymore. ( The writer is a senior resident at the Mohali civil hospital. Views expressed are personal.)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/guest-column-what-post-vax-world-looks-like-for-kids-101621090144337.html
15-05-2021||Pune||10 per cent rise in PMC’s share for the Swargate-Katraj metro project||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) will have to increase its financial share in the proposed underground Swargate-Katraj metro extension route. The PMC, which is already battling a shortage of revenue in light of the pandemic, will have to now contribute 15 per cent of the overall project cost. Earlier, the PMC was to contribute 5.44 per cent; however, the Centre has reduced its contribution. PMC Commissioner Vikram Kumar has now tabled a proposal in the standing committee to approve 15 per cent financial contribution for Swargate-Katraj Metro extension project, which is expected to be a major relief for those living on Satara road. The standing committee meeting scheduled next week is likely to discuss the proposal. While the total estimated cost of the project is ₹4,283 crore, PMC will have to contribute ₹733.85 crore in the project including ₹248.62 crore of land acquisition and rehabilitation cost. Hemant Rasane, PMC standing committee chairman said, “As per Central government directives, PMC will have to increase its share in the project.” In the existing Pune Metro project which is underway between Swargate to Chinchwad and Vanaz to Ramwadi, PMC’s financial contribution is only 10 per cent. As per Central urban development ministry officials, the union government has reduced their financial contribution and instructed PMC to contribute 15 per cent of the overall project cost.” Ulka Kalaskar, chief accountant officer of PMC said, “Earlier, the civic body was supposed to contribute only 5 per cent of the amount in the project. Now, our share has increased, and we will have to pay 15 per cent of the total project cost.” The administration has sought a nod to cancel the earlier (March 2021) proposal passed in the general body meeting earmarking 5.44 per cent on the total project cost, which was ₹233.00 crore for the land acquisition and rehabilitation purposes. The new proposal has now sought a standing committee nod for the increased allocation of ₹733.85 crore including ₹485.23 crore as 15 per cent financial contribution in the project and land acquisition and rehabilitation cost of ₹248.62 crore. A PMC official said, “During recent project monitoring meeting, Maha-Metro informed deputy chief Minister Ajit Pawar that centre is not going to give 20 per cent share in Swargate- Katraj project. After that deputy chief minister instructed PMC to increase its share. Now, PMC and state will contribute 15 per cent each and central will give 10 percent contribution. Remaining 60 per cent will be raised in the form of loan.”The PMC has also mentioned that they will not take any financial liability in the terms of state and Central government loans. Maharashtra Metro railway Corporation Limited (MahaMetro) will follow up with the state and Central government for implementation of the project. According to the Detailed Project Report (DPR) prepared by Maha Metro last year, the per kilometre cost of the metro line is estimated to be ₹783.85 crore. The 5.4 kilometre Swargate-Katraj stretch will be underground and will cost ₹4,283 crore. There will be four stations on the stretch, which is an extension of the Swargate-Nigdi line being developed by MahaMetro. -------------------------------------- Header: The Swargate-Katraj Metro Length of the proposed project-5.464 km- Estimated per kilometre cost - ₹783.85 crore- Total estimated cost of project - ₹4,283.72 crore Estimated cost for rehabilitation, resettlement and land acquisition- ₹248.62 crore Land required for the project: 19,350.733 sq. m Name of four stations *Swargate *Gultekdi (Market yard) *Sai baba Mandir *Katraj junction Expected footfall Year Footfall 2027 –95,000 2037 –158,000 2047 –187,000 2057-197,000||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/10-per-cent-rise-in-pmc-s-share-for-the-swargate-katraj-metro-project-101621090083834.html
15-05-2021||Pune||Man cuts himself to evade arrest, booked for attempted suicide||A man was booked for attempted suicide for cutting himself to evade arrest by Pune police in the early morning hours of Friday. The man is identified as Billusingh Prabhusingh Taak (30), a resident of Dhangarvasti in Haveli. He is currently undergoing treatment at Sassoon General Hospital for the wounds caused during his attack on self and the fall from a motorbike that he suffered while running from the police. A complaint in the matter was lodged by police naik Amit Babasaheb Salunkhe of Lonikalbhor police station. The parliament had passed the Mental Health Care Act in 2018 which states that “Notwithstanding anything contained in Section 309 of the Indian Penal Code any person who attempts to commit suicide shall be presumed, unless proved otherwise, to have severe stress and shall not be tried and punished under the said code.” However, cases do get registered under Section 309 of IPC on multiple occasions. In fact, the use of hurting oneself to evade arrest is witnessed by police on multiple occasions. The police had gone to arrest him after he was identified as a suspect in a case under Section 457 (lurking house-trespass or house-breaking by night in order to commit offence punishable with imprisonment) and 380 (theft in a dwelling house etc.,) Of the Indian Penal Code. The crime detection team of Lonikalbhor police station had set a trap near his house to arrest him in the theft case around 5am on Friday. The man realised the set-up and tried to flee from the police on a motorbike. However, he slipped and fell on the road along Urulidevachi Palkhi in Haveli. He fell near a field and started running in it. However, when he realised that the police were closing in, he used the knife in his possession and cut himself on his hands, neck, and stomach, according to the police. The case was registered against him under Section 309 (attempted suicide) of the Indian Penal Code at Lonikalbhor police station. While his relation to the Taak crime family of Ramtekdi, Hadapsar is not yet confirmed, this method of evading arrest is known to have been used by the criminals from Ramtekdi - Taak, Kalyani, and Dudhani families.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/man-cuts-himself-to-evade-arrest-booked-for-attempted-suicide-101621090023841.html
15-05-2021||Pune||110 graduated medical cadets to join fight against Covid Armed Forces Medical Services||As many as 110 medical cadets, including 21 female cadets of the 55th (C3) batch of the Armed Forces Medical College (AFMC) were commissioned as medical officers into the Armed Forces Medical Services (AFMS) on Saturday. The Passing out Parade (PoP) for commissioning AFMC Medical Cadets had to be called off for the first time since 1982 due to the prevailing Covid-19 restrictions. The medical cadets were commissioned by Lt Gen Nardeep Naithani, commandant AFMC, in a brief ceremony at AFMC. Among the 110 cadets, 94 Cadets were commissioned into the Army, 10 in the Indian Air Force, and six in the Indian Navy. The newly commissioned medical officers were administered oath of allegiance to the Constitution of India by Col AK Shakya, Col Training, AFMC. In his commissioning address, Gen Naithani congratulated the newly commissioned officers for joining the AFMS which is the finest integrated medical organization in the country. He stated that C3 batch has the unique distinction of having the entire batch that entered AFMC in 2016 graduating together with 100 per cent success, which he said is the best tribute to the teachers at AFMC. Gen Naithani reminded the graduating batch that they were joining the medical profession at a time when the country was passing through a difficult phase and exhorted them to put their knowledge and skills acquired at AFMC to provide the best possible care to their patients as they join the Nation’s battle against Covid-19 as Covid warriors. He expressed confidence that, given their academic rigor and training, the newly commissioned medical officers would always measure up to the highest standards expected from military doctors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/110-graduated-medical-cadets-to-join-fight-against-covid-armed-forces-medical-services-101621089963710.html
15-05-2021||Pune||Tauktae’s impact on onset of monsoon in Maharashtra too early to predict, scientists say||As cyclone Tauktae further intensifies in the Arabian Sea, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted that the southwest monsoon may now reach Kerala by May 31, a day prior to the normal date. However, how the cyclone will impact the monsoon’s arrival and withdrawal in Maharashtra is being studied, said IMD scientists. OP Sreejith, scientist and head, Climate Monitoring and Prediction Group (CMPG) at IMD Pune said that once the cyclone conditions are over, the picture will get clearer. “It is difficult to say at this time when the monsoon will reach Maharashtra. We can get an idea after the dissipation of the cyclonic storm currently over the Arabian Sea. However, the current formation of the cyclone will strengthen the cross-equatorial flow and help strengthen the monsoon flow. At the same time, a direct correlation cannot be made between the cyclone and the monsoon onset,” said Sreejith. According Sreejith, cyclones in Arabian Sea which are moving towards Yemen and Oman may adversely affect the southwest monsoon. “But for cyclone Tauktae, it’s path is parallel to the Indian coast and so there are chances that it will help the monsoon to advance,” said Sreejith. As per the weather department, the monsoon advance over Andaman and Nicobar Islands is very likely around May 21. However, the past data suggests that there is no association of the date of monsoon advance over the Andaman Sea either with the date of monsoon onset over Kerala or with the seasonal monsoon rainfall over the country. As per a recent paper published by Elena Surovyatkina, researcher from Potsdam Institute for Climate Impact Research, Germany, monsoon will reach central part of India which includes south-eastern part of Maharashtra state, western part of Chhattisgarh state and the northern part of Telangana state between June 21 to June 29. “Pre-monsoon isolated rainfall may appear in the period from 14 -17 June. The continuous monsoon rainfall is expected to start from June 29 in the region,” stated the paper. Cyclone watch Meteorologists from IMD said that the cyclonic storm ‘Tauktae’ is very likely to intensify further into a severe cyclonic storm until Saturday evening. Thereafter, it is further expected to intensify into a very severe cyclonic storm until the morning of May 16. It is very likely to move north-northwestwards and cross Gujarat coast between Porbandar and Naliya around May 18 afternoon/ evening according to weather department. On Saturday, no rainfall was reported in Pune city. As per IMD, the day temperature in Pune city was 36.8 degrees Celsius and the night temperature was 24.4 degrees Celsius. Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather forecasting department at IMD Pune said that ghat areas around Pune may receive heavy rainfall. “There is a chance of cloudy weather in the city on May 16. The ghat areas may receive heavy rainfall. Moderate rain (15.6 – 64.4 mm) with isolated heavy (64.5-115.5mm) rainfall is very likely in ghat areas. Thunderstorm and lightning, likely on May 16,” said Kashyapi. Kolhapur and Mahabaleshwar reported rainfall on Saturday. In Konkan and Goa, Ratnagiri and Panjim also reported rainfall. The highest maximum temperature reported in Maharashtra was at 42.2 degrees Celsius at Akola and the lowest minimum temperature reported was at 18.4 degrees Celsius at Mahabaleshwar on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/tauktaes-impact-on-onset-of-monsoon-in-maharashtra-too-early-to-predict-scientists-say-101621089843700.html
15-05-2021||Pune||Man with a criminal record killed by a group in Bibwewadi||A man on record of Pune police was killed by a group of 10 men in OTA scheme area of Bibwewadi in the small hours of Saturday. The deceased was identified as Madhav Hanumant Waghate (28), a resident of Rajani Corner in Kakade Chawl area of Balajinagar in Dhankawadi. Wagahte has a record of body offences at two police stations at least. A complaint in the matter was lodged by 21-year-old man who was with Waghate. The complainant and Waghate had come to OTA scheme area of Bibwewadi after Waghate received a phone call from his friend identified only as Sunil Khapte. Khapte had gotten in a fight with a man named Sarang Gawali over a WhatsApp status, according to the police. Khapte called and told the now-deceased man that he had been in a fight and needs support, according to the complainant. Khapte allegedly told Waghate the time and place where he needs him to come. When the complainant and Waghate were waiting at the spot in OTA scheme area where Khapte lived, the group of accused men arrived there and started hitting him with metal rods, tube lights, stones, and cement blocks in the vicinity. The injuries caused in the attack claimed Waghate’s life, according to the police. A case under Sections 302 (murder), rioting of Indian Penal Code along with Section 37(1)with135 of Maharashtra Police Act was registered at Bibwewadi police station. Police inspector (cirme) Anita Hivarkar of Bibwewadi police station is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/man-with-a-criminal-record-killed-by-a-group-in-bibwewadi-101621089783672.html
15-05-2021||Delhi||As Covid deaths go up, Delhi’s Sarai Kale Khan crematorium will add 150 more pyres||Delhi’s Sarai Kale Khan crematorium will soon be extended an additional 1,000 meters on its east side to create space for 150 more pyres and 10 electric crematorium facilities. Construction will begin once the ongoing lockdown ends, crematorium officials told news agency ANI on Saturday.Crematoriums in the national capital have been inundated with a massive number of bodies amid the raging second wave of the pandemic. In the face of this increased pressure, crematorium authorities had to turn the family members of the deceased away and people had to run pillar to post and wait for up to 20 hours to get their loved ones cremated. Delhi has recorded a total of 21,244 deaths since the pandemic began last year.Crematoriums have also been dealing with the issue of ashes piling up as family members are unable to collect them either because they are themselves infected or they fear getting infected. Delhi’s Nigam Bodh Ghat and Ghazipur crematorium have huge amount of ashes uncollected. As per Hindu tradition, the ashes of the deceased need to be immersed in the Ganga after the last rites have been carried out.South Delhi Municipal Corporation’s sanitary superintendent KC Bhardwaj who looks after the operation of eight crematoriums told news agency ANI that currently, the Sarai Kale Khan crematorium is operating on 3,000 meters of land and that the planned extension will be near the Yamuna river."At present, we are operating on 3,000 meters. However, the proposal of increasing another 1,000 meters has been granted. Space won't be a problem at all because a repetition of the scenario that Delhi witnessed is unthinkable." said Bhardwaj"Extension at the eastern side has been well calculated as it will be near the Yamuna River," he added.Delhi has been witnessing a decline in the daily tally of cases, as the number of tests conducted daily has also been decreasing. On Saturday, the national capital recorded 6,430 new Covid-19 cases and 337 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/as-covid-deaths-go-up-delhi-s-sarai-kale-khan-crematorium-will-add-150-more-pyres-101621089035343.html
15-05-2021||Mumbai||SpiceJet crew spend 21 hrs in plane after not showing Covid negative report, then return||Upon not presenting a mandatory negative RT-PCR report at the Zagreb airport in Croatia, the entire SpiceJet crew had to spend 21 hours inside the aircraft and then return to the country.The flight took off from Delhi on Tuesday and landed at the Zagreb airport where the Croatia Aviation Authority did not allow SpiceJet's crew to step out of the plane.According to SpiceJet spokesperson, the aviation authority had given a go-ahead to enter the country without a Covid test report when the flight departed from India."Prior to departure from India, email confirmation was received from Croatian authorities that RT-PCR is not required for crew. On arrival in Zagreb, the crew was told that orders have changed. SpiceJet crew rested in the aircraft for 21 hours (as mandated by regulation). They then flew back to Delhi," said the spokesperson.The massive surge in Covid-19 cases across the country is the reason for asking India-based airlines for a compulsory RT-PCR test report at the Croatian airport."Due to sudden and massive increase in Covid-19 cases in India, they have now been instructed that RT-PCR is required. This came as a surprise," added the spokesperson.India's low-cost airline SpiceJet has submitted a full report related to the case to the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) and complied with the rules."Since the crew could not fly back immediately due Flight Duty Time Limitation (FDTL) restrictions, bedding, food, water was provided in the aircraft. The plane was cleaned and DGCA permission was obtained," said the spokesperson.India's aviation watchdog DGCA official has admonished the SpiceJet pilots and officials on the said incident.In the last 24 hours, India has recorded 3,26,098 new Covid-19 cases and 3,53,299 recoveries. The cumulative caseload of the country touched 2,43,72,907 including 36,73,802 active cases and 2,04,32,898 total recoveries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/spicejet-crew-spend-21-hrs-in-plane-after-not-showing-covid-negative-report-then-return-101621087497843.html
15-05-2021||Lucknow||This is the best time to improvise held over projects: Tanmay||Filmmaker Tanmay Telang is all glad about his debut feature film doing rounds at international festivals, but equally bothersome that many of his upcoming projects are on hold due to the ongoing pandemic surge. Though the UPite is trying to make most of the time he has by working on the projects that will be shot in continuance once things get normal. “We were supposed to start the shoot of our first web-series ‘Pirates’ in Ukraine from May 10 but now it has been delayed for at least two months. The series has already been commissioned by a leading platform and we are looking forward to shoot as early as possible,” said Tanmay. His first film as co-producer is Marathi film ‘Dristhant’ which featured a visually impaired cast. “Not only actors, the singers, musicians and dubbing artistes all have same special-abilities. We have submitted the film in various film festivals and after a year we will release the film.” His mega project on slain gangster Vikas Dubey too got delayed. “We now plan to shoot the OTT series by year-end. We have taken rights and permissions to shoot from his wife Richa, son Akash, Special Task Force (STF) and other government departments. This is going to be a mega series which we will shoot in Kanpur and Mathura where we will re-create Bikroo village (originally in Kanpur Dehat where the shoot out took place killing eight cops).” Tanmay shares that his team had lined up production for ‘Hurdang’ (Sunny Singh and Nushrratt Bharuccha) which was shot in Agra followed by Abhishek Bachchan starrer ‘Dasvi’. “Besides, we had many more projects that were in advance stage of pre-production. Now, with everything on hold, this is the best time to improvise those projects,” he adds. Talking about his journey he said, “I was born in Vrindavan and was brought up Noida. I went to a college in Pune where I completed my graduation in film making. Then I along with my friend-partner Harshvardhan joined the team of producer Sailesh R Singh the maker of like ‘Tanu Weds Manu’ and ‘Shahid.’ He is our mentor and inspiration so that’s how we got hands-on experience in production work and since then we have been handling all his UP projects in some capacity or other.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/this-is-the-best-time-to-improvise-held-over-projects-tanmay-101621087624225.html
15-05-2021||Dehradun||As of now, my priority is my state & its people: Raghav Juyal||Battling Covid infection dancer, actor and TV anchor Raghav Juyal, who was in midst of professional commitments, came back to his home state Uttarakhand to restore his health. But, putting everything behind he started helping those in need in the best possible way. “I just can’t go back leaving my people who are like my family in lurch and join the bandwagon to earn money. I am no big star, in fact I’m in the beginning of my career and absolutely respect my work but for now my priority is my state and its people who are fighting the second wave of this deadly pandemic. I am giving my all to be of some help to those who are living in the worst hit areas,” said the ‘Bahut Hua Samman’ and ‘ABCD-2’ actor. With regular posts and appeals on social media, Raghav wants more people to come forward and help. “I am making constant appeals for help as I know social media has a vast reach. It’s a challenging phase for the entire country where people are constantly losing their loved ones. In such gloomy times, I have seen many celebs making fun videos, flashing abs and what not! This actually left me baffled thinking what’s wrong with us? Have we crossed the line of selfishness and become too practical because for me this is inhuman!.” Giving an insight on his emotions side, he said, “I am fun loving person and trust me I too never knew that I have such strong emotional side to myself. Maybe seeing so much pain and agony around made me go out the way and forget all. I came back home to get better but when I reached here, I saw my brother and numerous young volunteers doing so much for people on ground level. This inspired me. I along with my close friend Cheenu, who runs Khushi Foundation in Mumbai, decided to work together towards helping as many as we can and save lives. We are all set to open our first help desk at Pawri following many more villages,” he said. Raghav did call up actor and social worker Sonu Sood and asked how to go about it. “It was in the beginning I called him: ‘Bhai please tell me how to go about it?’ He guided me and then him team recently helped me in getting an elderly woman admitted in a big hospital. Also, I am grateful to Uttarakhand Governor’s office for providing me with a team helping me take efforts far and wide. Now, I want more celebs to come forward and help in whatever capacity they can,” said Raghav who was last seen anchoring reality ‘Dance Deewane 3.’||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/as-of-now-my-priority-is-my-state-its-people-raghav-juyal-101621087504228.html
15-05-2021||Other||245 convicts released to decongest jails in HP amid second Covid wave||A total of 245 convicts have been released either on bail or on parole in Himachal Pradesh between January 1 and April 30 in a bid to decongest jails amid the second wave of Covid-19. Acting on the recommendation of a high-powered committee, constituted on the Supreme Court’s direction, the jail authorities released the convicts. This was stated during a virtual meeting of the committee, headed by justice Ravi Malimath, the executive chairman of State Service Authority, on Friday. The meeting was also attended by justice Tarlok Singh Chauhan as special invitee, additional chief secretary (home) Manoj Kumar, director general of police (prisons) N Venu Gopal D and Prem Lal Ranta, a member secretary. In a release issued later, Ranta said it was once again ordered to decongest the prisons by releasing the inmates on interim bail or parole. At present, 71 inmates are out of jail on parole. Besides, 33 life convicts have also been prematurely released from jails on the recommendations of the HP State Sentence Review Board. “It has been resolved that convicts, who are at present on parole, will be granted special parole, according to the decision of the high-powered committee. Those who surrendered on time will be entitled for an additional period of 90 days,” he said. It has been directed that inmates and jail staff are entitled to medical facilities and Covid-19 safety equipment such as masks, sanitisers and PPE kits when required, according to the health department’s protocol. “The jail superintendents shall maintain appropriate levels of hygiene and sanitation in the jails and suitable precautions be taken to prevent the transmission of diseases among inmates,” Ranta said. Last year, from April 1 to December 31, 2020, as many as 236 convicts were released on parole, four undertrials were released on bail and 15 life convicts were prematurely released on the recommendation of the committee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/245-convicts-released-to-decongest-jails-in-hp-amid-second-covid-wave-101621082704128.html
15-05-2021||Jaipur||Volunteers step in to deal with Covid-19 crisis in Rajasthan||Jaipur/Kota/Udaipur: Volunteers have stepped in across Rajasthan to help deal with the shortage of critical supplies like oxygen and dispel misinformation about Covid-19 as infections have surged in the state. In Jaipur, Isha Juneja, a journalism student, leads a group that tracks people, who have recovered from the illness and can help others by donating plasma. The group of over 500 volunteers verify leads on social media and help potential donors connect with families of the patients. She said when she started the group, she would receive 50 distress calls a day. “There has been some decline in the calls and now we get about 25 to 30 calls daily,” Juneja said. “If some people have oxygen cylinders but do not need them anymore, we connect them to those in need.” In the Dungarpur district, a group of women volunteers have joined hands with police to encourage people to wear masks and stay home till the infection rate is brought under control. The group has also been creating awareness. Dungarpur police superintendent Sudheer Joshi said this “Police Sakhi” project has been very successful. “The girls also visit important junctions of the city where they tell people about the pandemic and the ways to prevent it. They are present at pickets where they carry out important duties as volunteers.” Similarly, young men have been helping people with hospital admissions and last rites in cities such as Udaipur and Kota. Imran Qureshi, 37, has been ferrying oxygen cylinders from the refilling centre in Kota on his bike. He is a part of a 15-member volunteers’ team. Amaranth Chaurasia, 52, who contracted Covid-19 along with his wife, Rani, 50, in Kota, said Qureshi helped them arrange oxygen as there was no one in their family who could help them. “Imran and his volunteers brought Oxygen from somewhere. We will remain indebted to him throughout our lives.” Qureshi and his colleagues have also performed last rites in crematoriums and graveyards. “We are available round the clock for the service of Covid-19 patients and their families who are in dire need of assistance and cooperation,” he said. Qureshi has also been facilitating hospital admissions and motivating those who have recovered from Covid to donate plasma. Rahul Jain, Founder of Social Youth Club, and its president, Zeeshan Ansari, have been providing water and buttermilk as well as oxygen cylinders in Kota. “...we have been doing this for over a fortnight now while we are running an Oxygen Bank in which we have 22 oxygen cylinders which we are providing free to those who are in need of them for refilling...,” said Jain. Farid, 40, and his friend, Tauseef Germanwala, 33, have been offering food to people under home isolation in Udaipur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/volunteers-step-in-to-deal-with-covid-19-crisis-in-rajasthan-101621081504427.html
15-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt fixes rate of hearse service for deceased Covid-19 patients||The Delhi government has fixed the rates for hearse services provided for deceased Covid-19 patients, according to an official order on Saturday.A committee was constituted under the chairmanship of the North Delhi Municipal Corporation commissioner, which recommended the rates for hearse/mortuary services to be provided to deceased coronavirus patients, it said.On the recommendations of the committee, the rates have been fixed, the order by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority said."The rates of hearse van facility for deceased Covid-19 patients has been fixed at ₹1,300 per trip for initial 10 kilometres and ₹100 per kilometre thereafter,"“This will include the cost of transportation with driver and one attendant wearing PPE kits," it said.If the family members of the deceased patient desire to avail "dead body-wrapping" facility as per corona protocol, they would have to pay an additional ₹700, the order said."In case the services of an additional person is required by the family of the deceased patients to handle the body/wrapping etc the charges would be ₹500 which includes charges of safety gear to be worn by the additional person. No extra charge for sanitisation will be charged by the vendor," it said.Mortuary services for coronavirus patients are provided free of cost in private as well as government facilities, the order said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-fixes-rate-of-hearse-service-for-deceased-covid-19-patients-101621078554626.html
15-05-2021||Chandigarh||Complainant held for bank robbery of ₹45 lakh in Jalalabad||The deputy manager of Kotak Mahindra’s Jalalabad branch, Gurpartap Singh, has been arrested along with his friend, Paramjit Singh, for robbing the bank of ₹45 lakh on May 12. Gurpartap, who was the complainant in the case, and Paramjit were arrested by the Fazilka police on Friday evening for staging the robbery, while their accomplice, Gurpreet Singh, is absconding. Also read: Cases of post-Covid mucormycosis are increasing, says AIIMS chiefPolice recovered the cash and a licensed weapon from Paramjit, a resident of Prabhat Singh Wala near Jalalabad in Fazilka district. In his complaint, Gurpartap had claimed that two unidentified motorcycle-borne thieves robbed him and his subordinate Luvpreet Singh at gunpoint on May 12. He had said that the robbers targeted their car and threw chilli powder in their eyes before fleeing with a trunk containing the cash when they were taking it from the Muktsar branch to the bank’s Jalalabad branch. Forensic experts find shots were fired at parked car Forensic experts, however, raised doubts during investigation. Ferozepur range deputy inspector general of police (DIG) HS Mann said on Saturday that contrary to Gurpartap’s claim, it was found that the bullets were shot at the car when it was parked. “The complainant stated that they had to stop the car after the accused shot at the tyres. But forensic examination showed the bullets were shot at the rim of a parked car. This was the clinching evidence followed by technical and human intelligence inputs that helped our team crack the case,” the DIG said. He said Luvpreet has not been given a clean chit and more arrests are likely to be made in the case. Mann said Paramjit and Gurpreet were previously involved in drug peddling in Fazilka and Amritsar districts, respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/complainant-held-for-bank-robbery-of-rs-45-lakh-in-jalalabad-101621078743846.html
15-05-2021||Gurugram||Caught in lockdown, thousands of workers in Gurugram have nowhere to go||With Haryana’s Covid-induced lockdown crippling industries and construction projects, thousands of migrant workers in Gurugram and Manesar are under financial stress. Not being able to make rent, buy groceries or return home, they say they are living on a thin line of hope that the lockdown would be lifted soon. As per local trade unions and industrial associations, the lockdown imposed from May 3 had affected over 100,000 daily wagers. They warn that if corrective measures were not taken up, they may choose to walk back to their home states, hundreds of kilometers away, like last year. Daily wagers worst-hitIn Gurugram, the worst affected were daily wagers at small construction sites, while in Manesar and Udyog Vihar it is the the employees of small auto companies and garment export units. Naveen Kumar, 38, had to vacate his rented room in a Manesar villageon May 3 after he failed to pay rent. Although getting new work was unlikely in the lockdown, he decided that heading back home in Bihar would not solve his problem as his family had no money there either. Kumar said that he used to unload consignments but for the last one month there has been no work. “We are left with no money to even return home. We get free food from the police and sleep on the pavement waiting for the lockdown to get over,” he said. Arvind Kumar, 33, said that it’d been eight years since came to Manesar as a daily wager. “All these years were smooth and I used to save ₹5,000 a month. But since last year (when the first lockdown was announced in March and lasted 68 days) it is becoming tough to make ends meet. There are no jobs and factories have reduced manpower. Many companies have shut their operations permanently. I sleep under a tree and roam around in search of a free meal,” he said. The suspension of operations of big companies such as Hero MotoCorp and Maruti Suzuki has also forced smaller vendors to stop production. Hero MotoCorp on Friday said that it was moving towards a gradual resumption of operations by starting single shift production at three of its plants – Gurugram and Dharuhera in Haryana and at Haridwar from Monday. “Strict safety and hygiene protocols are in place at all plant locations and offices in preparation for the gradual resumption of operations,” the company spokesperson said. Maruti Suzuki did not respond to request for comment. Anil Kumar, general secretary, All India Trade Union Congress, Gurugram, said, “The major problem is of pay -- daily wagers don’t get it if they don’t work and even regular and contractual employees of mid-size units don’t get it for lockdown days when work came to a complete stop. This happened last year as well.”Rajender Saroha, general secretary of the Bhawan Nirman Kaamgar Union, said, “Around 50,000 daily wage earners reside in Sheetla Colony, Surat Nagar, Tekchand Nagar, Lakshman Vihar, Manesar and other areas. They have no money to pay rent, buy ration and also no resources to return home.”Industries help outManmohan Gaind, general secretary of the Manesar Industries Welfare Association acknowledged the workers’ issues. “We have decided to provide dry ration to around 500 families daily for a month. We will increase the supply as we don’t want our workers to suffer hunger, which will force them to rush back to their villages,” he said. Factory owners based in Udyog Vihar said that most of the small units owners have accommodated workers on their premises. “The real extent of this problem will be revealed on pay-day in June. Many business are not able to execute orders due to shortage of labour and other issues,” said Ashok Kohli, president, chamber of industries of Udyog Vihar. Shalini Sood, director of a packaging factory in IMT Manesar, said that their staff strength had gone down from 180 to 60 since last year. “Employees left early as they feared a lockdown. Many fear getting infected and prefer working from home,” she said.Police pitch inAs reported on Friday, police in Manesar have been providing free meals to the jobless and homeless at four designated spots. Yashwant Yadav, station house officer (SHO) of IMT Manesar police station, who estimated that there would be at least 600 workers at these four locations, said that they have started receiving groceries and dry ration from 15 private companies and eight residential societies. “We will also start distributing medical kits to the workers, ” he said. KK Rao, commissioner of police said that anyone in need of shelter and food can call the police control room number-100 - for help. All police stations were directed to feed those in need. “Free medical facility will be provided those in need and our vehicles will shift patients, and in case someone cannot make it to the free meal sites, it will be delivered to them,” he said. Government relief awaitedThe Supreme Court on Thursday had directed the governments of Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Delhi to provide meals, dry ration and transportation to migrant workers in the National Capital Region.But the Haryana government is yet to announce a major relief package for migrant workers. Trade Unions had demanded the government pay ₹7,500 per worker and implement the directions of the Supreme Court. Amit Arya, media advisor to Haryana chief minister, said that all efforts would be made to provide help to workers. “Last year also the government, industry and civil society had joined hands to help the workers. Likewise, we will provide food, meals and transport to workers this year as well,” he said. Arya, however, added that the problem was less acute this year as industries and factories were allowed to work even during the lockdown. A Gurugram district spokesperson said that directions have been issued to officials in the field to provide help to workers facing any problem. “If any workers is facing problem, they can call the helpline at 1950 for assistance,” the spokesperson said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/caught-in-lockdown-thousands-of-workers-in-gurugram-have-nowhere-to-go-101621078504052.html
15-05-2021||Gurugram||Senior citizens in Gurugram with Covid-19 to get oxygen cylinder for free at their doorstep||From Saturday, Haryana will provide free doorstep delivery of oxygen cylinders to senior citizens and people from economically weaker sections.Adviser to the chief minister Anil Rao said on Friday that these people need only to contact their nearest police station to avail the service.Rao said senior citizens living alone found it difficult to get a cylinder.“Many of them didn’t have their children nearby due to the lockdown in various part of the country, including Haryana. It was difficult for them to seek assistance from the administration and had no support to get oxygen refilled from stations. Many people died this way,” he said. “Similarly, people from economically weaker sections who were not technology savvy could not request for support.”Those who would like to avail the service need to provide either doctor’s prescription for oxygen or show their oxygen saturation (SPO2) level on their oximeter. An SPO2 of 95% and above is considered safe.“All police officials have been informed to check their records and proactively contact senior citizens in their jurisdiction and the 20 police control room vans converted into ambulances will be ready to assist them. Also, all the resident welfare associations have been asked to ensure they allow domestic helps and medical assistance for them even during the lockdown,” said Rao.Since the second wave of Covid-19 gripped the country in April, Haryana soon turned into one of the worst affected states. Like neighbouring Delhi, Gurugram too suffered shortage of oxygen and hospital beds.Yash Garg, deputy commissioner of Gurugram, said that there was no oxygen shortage. “We are getting nearly 50 metric tonnes of oxygen and the hospitals have increased Covid beds following which there is no shortage of beds either. The demand is increasing but we are balancing it,” he said. Last Sunday, the Gurugram district administration had started doorstep delivery of oxygen to those who needed. The rate of a B-type cylinder of capacity 10 litres was fixed at ₹80, while for D-type cylinder of 46 litres, the cap was at ₹250, with a standard delivery charge of ₹100 per cylinder.On Friday, Rao and district officials visited two oxygen refilling plants in Manesar to assess the situation and prevent any disruption.“The district administration and police will regularly monitor the capacity and situation at the refilling stations were directed to help anyone coming with an emergency,” said Rao.The officials said that they have identified nitrogen and argon gas manufacturing plants that could be converted to manufacture medical oxygen plants, if required. The regional transport authority (RTA) had earlier converted 12 nitrogen and argon tankers into oxygen tankers to transport gas from a plant in Rourkela and Angul of Odisha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/senior-citizens-in-gurugram-with-covid-19-to-get-oxygen-cylinder-for-free-at-their-doorstep-101621078503339.html
15-05-2021||Bangalore||Bengaluru emerges as new Covid-19 hotspot as positivity rate, deaths increase||Over the last two weeks, Karnataka has witnessed devastating Covid-19 surge, recording the highest Covid-19 related deaths and a worrying number of new cases.The state emerged as the country's new Covid-19 hotspot with 5,98,625 active cases, the highest in the country, followed by Maharashtra with 5,21,683 active infections, the union health minister informed.While cases do seem to be coming down in Bengaluru, the positivity rate remains high - about 38.13 per cent over the last 24 hours.As per the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP), on May 6, 23,706 fresh cases were reported, out of 60,944 cases samples that were tested - a positivity rate of about 39.69 per.Deaths in Bengaluru have also risen over the last few weeks. A total of 6,538 Covid patients had died in the city since the beginning of the pandemic. 162 fatalities were reported on May 1.By May 11, cumulative deaths rose to 8,691, with 259 daily deaths.On Thursday, only 44,799 tests were conducted in the city and 24,732 doses of the Covid-19 vaccine were administered.Out of the 5,98,625 active cases in Karnataka, 3,60,862 are concentrated in Bengaluru.More than 500 positive cases were found in 198 wards of the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP).Meanwhile, Karnataka received a fresh stock of 75,000 doses of Covid vaccines on Friday, informed the state Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar, adding that that state had so far received 1,10,49,470 doses of vaccines, out of which 99,58,190 doses were of Covishield and 10,91,280 doses of Covaxin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/bengaluru-emerges-as-new-covid-19-hotspot-as-positivity-rate-deaths-increase-101621077577796.html
15-05-2021||Mumbai||FYJC students miss campus life due to college closures||Last year, when Ryan Viegas passed his Class 10 board exam with 92%, he was elated. Viegas, who wanted to pursue Arts, got a seat at one of the city’s most prestigious colleges — St Xavier’s College. In his school days, he had heard a lot about the excitement of being in one of the top colleges of the city and wanted to experience all of it himself. However, with the Covid-19 pandemic and the resultant lockdown, colleges in the city and the state remained close and lakhs of students like Viegas had to make do with virtual experiences of college life.“I was really excited about getting to go to the college of my choice. I had heard a lot of things about the college and the activities there. Academically, I am very happy with the online teaching but the physical experience is something I miss,” said Viegas. When asked about the difference between the offline and online format, he said, “Since I do not know what it is to physically attend college, I cannot even make that comparison.”While the pandemic and the resultant shift to online learning had an impact on students across grades, for students who entered first-year junior college (FYJC) last year, the impact was more pronounced. For majority students in Maharashtra, FYJC is the first college experience that students get as they move from schools to junior colleges for Class 11 and 12. In Mumbai itself, nearly 224,000 students were admitted at various junior colleges across the Mumbai Metropolitan Region last year. With colleges remaining closed for physical classes, these students have been deprived of the real college experience — enjoying a new campus, meeting new teachers, making new friendships and, travelling to far-off colleges by themselves at times. Even as junior colleges in the state began their online classes soon after the academic year began for students, the real experience of transitioning from school to college environment was lost. Students said colleges are doing their best to provide them with excellent online learning but added that they do miss out on the college experience as a whole, something that they had always looked forward to. Nilakshi Mishra, a student from an aided school in Chembur, worked hard to get to the college of her choice. A student of Ruia College, Mishra was not able to visit her campus even once. “I had heard so many stories from my friends about college life, canteen and hangout places near the college. It all seems like a rosy picture to me now. I have barely been able to make any friends and only know a couple of students who I have worked with for my group discussions and assignments. It is really upsetting,” said Mishra.Satram Verhani, former vice-principal of CHM College in Ulhasnagar, said this year has been particularly difficult for FYJC students. “In college, there are so many extra-curricular activities. Students get an opportunity to participate in events, various clubs etc. which they could not do to that extent this year. While we did conduct some events online, it is definitely not the same,” he added.Aryaman Kumar, a science student enrolled at PACE Junior College in Dadar, said students cannot develop a good rapport with their teachers in the online mode. “The teachers teach us well and handle all our queries, but beyond that there is no discussion at an individual level because both teachers and students are new to each other. We have no reference point for a general conversation, which usually helps a lot in getting to know things during college days,” he added.Teachers said it is difficult to imagine college life without a campus. “When we were in college, we learnt more in canteen and gymkhana than in classrooms. When students come to colleges from schools, a different world opens up for them altogether. Nothing can compensate for these prime years and they will never come back,” said a junior college teacher from a suburban college.Schools and colleges in the state closed for physical classes in March 2020. While admissions to junior college began in August 2020, colleges in the state started only in December-January owing to the Supreme Court stay on admissions under the Maratha quota. Students are now hoping that physical colleges resume soon. “I just hope we get to attend college at least for a few months. I want to take up a professional course later and this is the only college experience where I will get to study and relax a bit at the same time,” said Sana Shah, a student from Vile Parle.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/fyjc-students-miss-campus-life-due-to-college-closures-101621077603344.html
15-05-2021||Pune||Pune rural continues to report maximum Covid cases||The district, on Friday, reported 6,155 new Covid cases and 30 deaths on Friday, as per the state health department. Pune rural continued to report maximum cases and deaths.Pune rural reported 3,172 new cases which took the progressive count to 259,300 cases and with 21 deaths the toll in the rural areas went up to 2,757.Pune city reported 1,939 new cases which took the progressive count to 469,935 and with six more deaths the toll went up to 5,965.Pimpri-Chinchwad reported 1,044 new cases and the progressive count went up to 233,858 cases and with three more deaths the toll went up to 1,540.The progressive count of the district stands at 963,093 cases, out of which 856,745 have recovered and 10,320 deaths were declared and 96,028 are active cases undergoing treatment in the hospital or are in home isolation.Vaccination for 45+ at 15 centres todayPune also saw 12,255 vaccinations on the day, out of which 2,554 were from Pune rural, 7,816 were from Pune city and 1,885 from Pimpri-Chinchwad. Vaccination was conducted at 125 session sites.On Saturday, PMC has planned vaccination at only 15 centres for all those aged 45 and above and all the centres would provide only Covaxin shots for second dose only. “None of the centres would provide the first dose,” said mayor, Murlidhar Mohol.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-rural-continues-to-report-maximum-covid-cases-101621077543919.html
15-05-2021||Bangalore||Covid-19 lockdown yielding results, should be extended if needed: Union minister Sadananda Gowda||Union Minister Sadananda Gowda on Saturday said lockdown has to be extended if need be, as it has been yielding results, with major cities including Bengaluru witnessing a decline in daily Covid-19 cases. The state is currently under complete lockdown till May 24. "Lockdowns have been successful and have yielded results, cities like Mumbai, Delhi, and Karnataka's Bengaluru are examples. There has been a decline (in Bengaluru) since the last couple of days," Gowda said. Speaking to reporters here, the union minister who represents Bengaluru North parliamentary seat said, there is a need to break the chain. ".. it (lockdown) has been going on successfully, after May 24 if there is a need for it to be extended, it has to be done. We have to save lives, leading life may become difficult, governments will have to take steps to improve it," he added. Gowda's statement came a day after Revenue Minister R Ashoka batted for the extension of the statewide lockdown, aimed at controlling the spread of the pandemic. Amid the rising Covid-19 cases in the state, the Karnataka government that had initially announced 14 days "close down" from April 27, subsequently imposed a complete lockdown from May 10 to May 24, amid continued spike in cases. Noting that the state and central governments were ready to take all the criticism regarding Covid management, Gowda said, those in the government will not get disturbed by it. "We have a responsibility and the commitment and we will have to fulfill it," he added. Conceding that the government's action plan on vaccination got disturbed as people of all the age groups started coming in large number to take it, with the intensity of the second wave increasing, the Union Minister said necessary steps and policies will be implemented soon so that everyone gets the vaccine.Karnataka on Friday reported 41,779 new cases of Covid-19, and 373 fatalities, taking the total number of infections to 21,30,267 and the death toll to 21,085.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/covid19-lockdown-yielding-results-should-be-extended-if-needed-union-minister-sadananda-gowda-101621075899889.html
15-05-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana government fudging Covid-19 figures, alleges Congress||Haryana Congress unit chief Kumari Selja on Saturday attacked the BJP-led government in the state, alleging that it is hiding figures of Covid-19 infected and fatalities.She also said black marketing of medicines, which are required for treatment of coronavirus patients, and oxygen cylinders have "broken all records"."The spread of the coronavirus is increasing rapidly in the state. Instead of preventing it, the government has been making false statements and claims. The figures of those infected and deaths are being hidden," the Congress leader said. There is a huge shortage of doctors and health workers in hospitals, and the situation in government health facilities in the state is that relatives have to look after their ailing themselves, Selja claimed. "People are not getting treatment. For the last several days, the situation in rural areas has become worse," she told an online press conference.Selja said that medicines required for the treatment of Covid-19 patients and oxygen are being black-marketed in the state. "This time, black marketing has broken all records. Patients in the state are neither getting oxygen on time nor beds. There is a huge lack of ventilators and the government is sitting blindfolded," she added.Selja said that the Covid-19 cases in Haryana are continuously increasing, but the vaccination campaign is going on at a "very slow" pace.The positivity rate is 45% in three districts and more than 40% in one district of the state, the Congress leader claimed.She said at the same time, the positivity rate in 11 districts is more than 30%. Besides this, it is more than 25% in four districts and more than 10% in three districts, Selja added.On average, around 60,000 tests are being done daily in the state which is only around 2,000 on a population of 10 lakh, she said.The party's state unit chief also said that at this time, Haryana is getting only 258 metric tonnes of oxygen. The central government should at least double the oxygen quota of the state, she added. The government should increase the number of RT-PCR tests and speed up the pace of testing, Selja suggested. Permanent place of testing should be made in villages, she said.Selja said that Covid-19 hospitals with bed facilities of 500 to 1,000 should be built in each district with the help of the army.Covid-19 patients should get free medicines and treatment, and besides this, everyone should get a vaccine at no cost, Selja said adding that the Haryana government should bear this expenditure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-government-fudging-covid-19-figures-alleges-congress-101621076657458.html
15-05-2021||Pune||0.35 million people fined in Pune for violating Covid norms||The Pune police have fined as many as 0.35 million people and recovered 17.85 crore in fines from violators between March 2020 and May 13, 2021.Fines were collected especially for not wearing a face mask at public places and not following social distancing norms and overcrowding.Ashok Morale, additional commissioner (crime), said, “It is mandatory to wear a face mask for self-protection and citizens must follow the rules. During travel, it is seen that they don’t wear masks which is increases the chance of virus spread. Hence penal action is being taken on a daily basis against the violators.”According to the crime branch officials who are monitoring and assessing the cases, an average of 2,000-3,000 persons are being challaned on a daily basis for not wearing masks and violating social distancing violations.The police observed while taking action against those not wearing masks under Section 188, the citizens had been quarrelling with the policemen for paying ₹500 as a fine.The ministry of home affairs (MHA) national directive for Covid-19 management states: “Wearing of face cover is compulsory in public places; in workplaces; and during transport”.The directive empowers the police to prosecute people without masks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/035-million-people-fined-in-pune-for-violating-covid-norms-101621077245738.html
15-05-2021||Pune||Shelters in Pune see rise in enquires, admissions of children, elderly||As the pandemic hit the city, people were not only worried for their health, but also for their well being. Loss of jobs and drastic fall in income forced many to abandon their old parents and in some cases seek shelter for their kids. Thus leading to a rise in the number of enquiries and admissions at shelter homes in the city.Maher Ashram, which has two centres, at Bhima Koregaon and Wagholi located in the periphery of Pune city is now seeing a large number of requests for admission for old people as well as kids.Sister Lucy Kurien, founder and director of the shelter home, said, “Since March 2020 we started getting calls seeking admission for old people, men and women and also kids. We even had an enquiry for a kid who lost both his parents to Covid-19 and is still undergoing treatment in the hospital. However, for such orphans the state is responsible and every admission has to be through and child welfare committee and so we cannot directly admit the child,” she said.“We do keep getting request for such admissions even on a temporary basis as both the parents are in the hospital or have died due to Covid-19 and the child needs a caretaker and a place for quarantine,” she said.Kurien also said, “We have opened our shelter home for Covid-19 affected kids and senior citizens who need admission on a temporary basis. In some cases, the younger members are infected and they cannot risk keeping old parents at home.”“From March 2020 to March 2021, we have admitted about 251 women for various reasons including husband’s job loss or suicide. We admitted about 119 children who came for temporary shelter because both the parents are sick or even because of increased tension in the house leading to domestic violence we have even had young girls who are brought in by the police because their parents were forcing them to get married. We have had 53 men who came to seek admission after they were forced to stay on the street. We have also had nine deliveries. We are also getting requests seeking ration kits from single parents who do not have any source of income,” she said.Priti Vaidya, director of Kinara Old Age Home, also saw an increased number of requests and a rise in homeless people on the streets.She said, “We are seeing a rise in the number of requests for admissions and we have also got more homeless people on the streets now. Earlier there used to be just 1-2 admissions in months, now we have admitted about 8-10 people in the last three months. These are senior citizens who are aged about 60 years of age who had come here to seek work. These are mostly from the Hindi-speaking belt of the country. They had come here to seek work but during the lockdown, they could not leave as they did not have any money.”“Before taking them in we also test them for Covid-19 so that other members are safe. Also, we often get enquiries from children who want to admit their senior citizen parents, but we scrutinize every case before we admit them,” she said.Another old age home, Manuski NGO’s owner Sayli Gayatre said, “We do keep getting a lot of enquiries, however, we have stopped taking in new admissions. In fact, we do not even allow visitors and relatives to come in because this would expose all our members to the infection. So when we get any calls we simply refuse admission.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/shelters-in-pune-see-rise-in-enquires-admissions-of-children-elderly-101621077123833.html
15-05-2021||Pune||Pune’s positivity rate of Covid over 23%; private labs see sharp drop in tests||For the past three days (May 11 to May 13) Pune’s positivity rate has stayed above 23 per cent which is a higher percentage considering the restrictions in place. Also, the demand for Covid tests at private labs has dropped sharply in the past few weeks.Despite the proportion of the rise in the number of cases in rural areas, the number of tests being done has not risen accordingly, say experts.On May 9, 37,400 tests were conducted in the district and 1,1498 were conducted in rural areas. While on May 10 at least 30,159 tests were conducted in the district out of which 7,970 were conducted in rural Pune. On May 11, 32,695 tests were conduct in the district and 10,236 in rural Pune, while on May 12 and 13, 42,233 and 38,551 tests were conducted in the district and 14,769 and 13,869 in rural areas respectively.Pallavi Jain, managing director of Krsnaa Diagnostics, said, “We have seen a fall in the demand for Covid-19 RT-PCR tests from Pune city. While earlier in the month of March we were conducting 2,000 to 3,000 tests daily this went up drastically to 8,000-9,000 tests on a daily basis. This has now again come down to 2,000 to 3,000 tests daily.”Pune city’s positivity rate for May 13 (18.78%), May 12 (13.81%) and May 11 (20.04%) has been lower than that of Pune rural which was about 23.70%, 23.86% and 30.83% which is much higher than the district’s overall positivity rate.Ayush Prasad, chief executive officer (CEO) Zilla Parishad, said, “The rate of new Covid-19 cases from Pune rural is increasing just like those from other rural areas of the country. However, since last week the number of Covid-19 tests in rural Pune has also increased which will help in early detection and controlling the spread.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/punes-positivity-rate-of-covid-over-23-private-labs-see-sharp-drop-in-tests-101621076943862.html
15-05-2021||Pune||Maharashtra aims to produce 3,000 MT liquid oxygen daily: Ajit Pawar||The state’s target is the produce 3,000 metric tonnes (MT) of liquid oxygen daily, said Ajit Pawar after attending the weekly Covid review meeting in the city on Friday.Pawar said that district and state administration has been preparing for the third Covid wave in terms of bed capacity, vaccination and oxygen generation.“Currently, we are generating 1,200 MT liquid oxygen and the aim is to increase it by 1,800 MT, “ he said.“The production of oxygen has been ramped up and two plants have been activated in Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) limits and two plants have been made operational in Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC). Also, 44 plants are proposed in the district including eight in PMC, seven in PCMC and 29 in rural areas,” he said.“Private hospitals also should install oxygen generation plants,” he addedHe also asked private hospitals in Pune to prepare facilities for pediatric Covid patients as the medical experts have observed that the third wave may severely affect children.“We are planning at corporations and tehsil level and we are conducting meetings with paediatricians. Beds are planned in Sassoon, Naidu and YCM, but private hospitals such as Ruby Hall Clinic, Deenanath Mangeshkar Hospital and Research Center, Bharati Hospital among others also should plan accordingly. We will guide parents on how to take care of Covid positive children,” Pawar said.He mentioned that the plight of Remdesivir has reduced.Pawar also warned about the post-Covid fungal infection Mucormycosis or ‘black fungus’ and instructed administration that there shouldn’t be a shortage of medicines.“Patients have been identified in rural, PCMC and PMC areas. The medicines for this treatment is expensive. I will conduct a meeting about the availability of these medicines. There shouldn’t be a shortage,” he said.Pawar also warned about the post-Covid fungal infection Mucormycosis and instructed administration that there shouldn’t be a shortage of medicines. “Patients have been identified in rural, PCMC and PMC areas. The medicines for this are expensive. I will conduct a meeting about the availability of these medicines. There shouldn’t be a shortage,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/maharashtra-aims-to-produce-3-000-mt-liquid-oxygen-daily-ajit-pawar-101621076703744.html
15-05-2021||Pune||Maharashtra govt should get 50% of Covaxin produced in Pune, says Ajit Pawar||Maharashtra deputy chief minister and Pune district guardian minister Ajit Pawar has emphasised that given the dire situation the state government should get 50 per cent of Covaxin produced at the Pune plant in Manjari Khurd.Pawar was in the city to attend the weekly Covid review meeting on Friday.The Bombay High Court has cleared Bharat Biotech’s way to make idle vaccine manufacturing unit in Pune district operational, the company will soon conduct a dry run of the machinery. Covaxin a vaccine against Covid -19 is likely to be produced at the plant.“Bharat Biotech’s machinery has arrived in Pune. Their effort is to manufacture Covaxin in the city and it will take at least three months. Once this production starts it will add to the supply. I have instructed divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao to talk to officials from Bharat Biotech to get 50 per cent vaccine from states’ quota to Maharashtra government. So that our citizens will benefit,” said Pawar.A division bench of Justices KK Tated and NR Borkar on May 6 heard an application filed by Karnataka’s Biovet Private Limited, seeking direction to the Maharashtra government to hand over possession of the manufacturing unit at Manjari Khurd village in Pune.The unit was first being used by Intervet India Pvt Ltd, a multinational and subsidiary of Merck & Co after the land was granted to it in 1973 to manufacture vaccines for foot and mouth disease. Later, Intervet decided to exit business operations in India and entered into an agreement with Biovet for the transfer of the land and manufacturing unit.Pawar said that though the Serum Institute of India (SII) and Bharat Biotech have been trying to enhance the production capacity of vaccines, there are limitations for the production and the central government has not given permission to other vaccines after the Sputnik V vaccine.He added that in the remaining 50 per cent quota of produced vaccines, there are a lot of contenders for the vaccine procurement.“Vaccination has begun in private companies, private hospitals and industries for their employees. Out of the total production of the vaccine, it will be distributed as 50 per cent to the Centre and the rest of the 50 per cent includes all the states plus private establishments. Vaccination in the private sector has started in Mumbai but the rate for a dose is different. Some may be able to afford it. But common people have the right to get vaccines,” Pawar said.Health minister Rajesh Tope, on Wednesday, announced that the inoculation drive of the 18-44 years age group was being temporarily halted by the state government. On being asked when this drive will be resumed, Pawar responded that the drive will begin as soon as more vaccines would be available.“We started vaccination for 18-44 years, age group, from May 1, but vaccination supply is low. Many people from the 45 and above age group are due for a second shot. So we decided to halt inoculation of this age group and add state procured vaccines in the Centre’s vaccine quota. It will be used for the second dose,” said Pawar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/maharashtra-govt-should-get-50-of-covaxin-produced-in-pune-says-ajit-pawar-101621076464935.html
15-05-2021||Chandigarh||40% of total Covid-19 deaths in Punjab reported in the last 44 days||Around 40 per cent of the total Covid-19-related fatalities in Punjab took place in the last forty-four days, indicating the severity of the second wave of the Coronavirus pandemic. Punjab had reported a total of 6,868 deaths due to the infection as on March 31. The death toll rose to 11,477 as on May 14, showing 4,609 more people succumbing to the disease since April 1 this year, the state Health Department's data revealed. The health officials had earlier pointed out that the delay in approaching hospitals for treatment by patients with severe symptoms and comorbidities were the main reasons behind fatalities. Punjab witnessed a record 217 deaths because of the contagion in a single day on May 11. The state has been seeing more than 100 fatalities daily for the past several days. Ludhiana is one of the worst-affected districts in Punjab as it has registered 538 deaths between April 1 and May 14, 2021, as per the data. Besides, Amritsar reported 515 more deaths due to the contagion between April 1 and May 14. During the same period, Patiala saw 396 deaths, Bathinda 349, Mohali 307 and Jalandhar 301, as per the data. The case fatality rate in rural areas is 2.6 per cent as against 0.8 per cent in urban areas, officials said. Apart from this, Punjab has added 2,44,250 fresh cases of infection in the last 44 days. The state had a total of 2,39,734 cases as on March 31. It went up to 4,83,984 between April 1 and May 14, as per the Health Department data. Ludhiana, Mohali, Bathinda, Patiala, Jalandhar and some other districts have witnessed a sharp rise in infections. Punjab's positive rate on Friday stood at around 11 per cent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/40-of-total-covid-19-deaths-in-punjab-reported-in-the-last-44-days-101621074744344.html
15-05-2021||Lucknow||Man hacks daughter, her lover by axe to death in UP's Kanpur: Police||In a shocking incident, a man hacked his teenaged daughter and her minor lover to death in a village near here, police said on Saturday. The incident occurred in a village under the Ghatampur police circle of the district late Friday night, Circle Officer Pawan Gautam said. The police have arrested the accused father, a truck driver by profession, he said, adding the axe with which the father hacked the two teenagers to death too has been recovered. Gautam said the 16-year-old girl had an affair with a 15-year-old boy of the same village and she had invited him to her home on Friday evening when her parents had gone to the neighbouring Banda district to attend a relative’s marriage. The two teenagers, however, were caught by the girl’s uncle who locked them inside the house and informed his brother about this incident over the phone, the CO said. Hearing about the incident, the girl’s father returned home and hacked his daughter and her lover to death, the CO added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/man-hacks-daughter-her-lover-by-axe-to-death-in-up-s-kanpur-police-101621070987065.html
15-05-2021||Mumbai||Liquid medical oxygen, cylinders arrive at Mumbai port from Kuwait||Kuwaiti ship arrived at Nhava Sheva Port in Mumbai on Saturday, carrying three semi-trailers of Liquid Medical Oxygen (25 metric tonnes each) and 1000 oxygen cylinders on board, to help India combat the coronavirus pandemic.External Affairs Ministry (EAM) spokesperson Arindam Bagchi expressed gratitude to the government of Kuwait for the much-needed oxygen to help ease pressure on the health infrastructure of the country."Taking forward historical ties of friendship. Kuwaiti ship arrives at Nhava Sheva Mumbai (India). 3 semi-trailers of LMO (25 MT each) and 1000 O2 cylinders onboard. Grateful to H.H. Sheikh Nawaf Al-Ahmed Al-Jaber Al-Sabah the Amir of the State of Kuwait & government of Kuwait," EAM spokesperson tweeted.Meanwhile, an Indian Air Force (IAF) aircraft airlifted three oxygen containers to Kuwait for recharging and subsequent return by sea."An IL-76 airlifted three oxygen containers to Kuwait for recharging & subsequent return by sea. Airlift of 8 x containers by C-17s to Qatar is underway. The air-sea logistics supply chain ops will make medical oxygen available in reduced timelines," IAF tweeted.Last week, a shipment of 282 oxygen cylinders, 60 oxygen concentrators, ventilators and other medical supplies from Kuwaiti reached India to help the country fight the deadly second wave of virus"Deepening our fraternal ties of friendship. Thank Kuwait for shipment of 282 oxygen cylinders, 60 oxygen concentrators, ventilators and other medical supplies that arrived today," Bagchi tweeted.India is witnessing a second wave of coronavirus that resulted in increased demand for medical oxygen, beds in hospitals and life-saving drugs.India reported 3,26,098 new COVID-19 cases, and 3,890 deaths in the last 24 hours, as per Union Health Ministry. It has the second-highest cases of infection in the world. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/liquid-medical-oxygen-cylinders-arrive-at-mumbai-port-from-kuwait-101621071005685.html
15-05-2021||Jaipur||Jaipur man stopped to help a woman on highway, was robbed by gang||Jaipur: The Jaipur police were looking for a gang, which robbed and assaulted a man after posing as women at a dimly-lit stretch of a highway on the city’s outskirts on Tuesday.Umrao Pareek, the man, said the robbers targeted him when he stopped his car on his way back home after work near a secluded bypass as he saw a person, who appeared to be a woman, seeking help“As soon as I stopped, at least a dozen other men posing as women smashed the windows of my car and pelted me with stones. They also snatched my gold chain and looted ₹7,000 cash,” Pareek said.Police have registered a case against the gang under the Indian Penal Code’s sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 341 (wrongful restraint), and 379 (theft).A police officer said they have stepped up night patrolling. “...men dressed in women’s attire have robbed someone. We are trying to retrieve the footage from CCTVs of the nearby areas,” said the officer.Pareek said the gang members were ruthless and repeatedly hit him,” They hit me before taking away my cash and gold chain. I could not seek help from anywhere because it was a desolate stretch of the highway,” he said.Pareek added he tried to resist. “Next day when I was passing through the same area, I spotted the same suspects... I quickly alerted the police about it. It is very unsafe now to pass from the same highway as the gang has many members and can quickly overpower anyone.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/jaipur-man-stopped-to-help-a-woman-on-highway-was-robbed-by-gang-101621068963405.html
15-05-2021||Kolkata||Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee's younger brother Ashim succumbs to Covid-19||The Covid-19 pandemic on Saturday claimed the life of West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee's younger brother, Ashim Banerjee, at a hospital in Kolkata.The chief minister's brother had tested positive for Covid-19 and was undergoing treatment, Dr Alok Roy, Chairman, Medica Superspecialty Hospital in Kolkata informed.As per the Union Health Ministry, there are currently 1,31,792 active Covid-19 cases in West Bengal.A total of 9,50,017 recoveries and 12,993 deaths have been reported so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bengal-cm-mamata-banerjee-s-younger-brother-ashim-succumbs-to-covid19-101621068433573.html
15-05-2021||Kolkata||West Bengal government imposes complete lockdown from May 16 to 30, emergency services exempted||The West Bengal state government on Saturday announced that a complete lockdown would be implemented in the state between May 16 and May 30. However, emergency services have been exempted and essential services have been allowed with some restrictions.In an order signed by the state chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay, the government said that the new restriction would come into effect from 6am on May 16 and would remain in place until 6pm on May 30. It also directed the state officials to ensure that the restrictions are strictly followed saying, “District administration, police commissionerates and local authorities shall ensure strict compliance of the above mentioned directives. Any violation of the aforesaid restriction measures will be liable to be proceeded against as per the provisions of Disaster Management Act, 2005 and under Indian Penal Code.”The new restrictions have been announced a day after the state reported its highest single-day spike of 20,846 new Covid-19 cases and 136 fatalities on Friday, a bulletin from the health department showed. With this, the cases tally in Bengal reached 1,094,802 while the death toll climbed to 12,993.Under the new restrictions, all educational institutions in the state would remain closed. Government and private organisations have also been ordered shut except those providing emergency and essential services like health care, courts, fire services and funeral services.As is the case in many states currently under lockdown, Bengal too has ordered all shopping complexes, malls, markets, spas, beauty parlours, cinema halls, restaurants, bars, sports complexes, gymnasiums and swimming pools to remain closed during the period.Shops are allowed to function for a limited number of hours under the curfew. While grocery shops and those that sell vegetables, fruits, milk, bread, meat and eggs are allowed to stay open between 7am and 10am, sweetmeat shops have been allowed to operate between 10am and 5pm. Also, jewellery and saree shops can remain open from 12pm to 3pm. However, medical stores and optical stores have been allowed to operate normally.The government has also capped the maximum number of people allowed at social events. While 50 people are allowed at marriages, funerals have been permitted with 20 people. "All administrative, academic, entertainment, political, cultural and religious gatherings, groupings and congregations shall be prohibited," the order said.From May 16, all intra-state travel such as trains, metros, bus services and inland water transport have been prohibited except for movement of essential personnel. Also, private vehicles are also allowed only for some emergencies. Meanwhile trucks and goods carriers are allowed for transporting medical supplies, oxygen, essential food commodities, petrol, diesel and LPG.While 50 per cent strength is allowed in all shifts in tea gardens, jute mills are allowed to operate with 30 per cent strength, the order said. All e-commerce activities and home delivery of all commodities have also been allowed.Despite the implementation of the new restrictions, the government stressed the need to follow non pharmaceutical interventions like wearing a face mask, maintaining social distancing and following hygiene protocols at all times.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/west-bengal-government-imposes-complete-lockdown-from-may-16-to-30-emergency-services-exempted-101621066395754.html
15-05-2021||Delhi||Covid: Delhi govt to start oxygen concentrator bank, announces CM Kejriwal||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announced on Saturday that the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP)-led government will start an oxygen concentrator bank (OCB) in the national capital and added that 200 such units will be set up in each district.Addressing a press conference, Kejriwal said, “From today we will be starting an oxygen concentrator bank. We have often seen that oxygen levels of people have dropped after being infected with Covid-19. If they are provided oxygen immediately, their condition may not worsen. If the lifesaving gas is not provided on time, they have to be admitted in Intensive Care Units (ICUs) and sometimes they succumb to Covid-19.”Kejriwal added the Delhi government officials will deliver the oxygen concentrator within two hours to those patients which are under home isolation. A technical person will accompany the officials and will educate the family members on how to use the machine, the chief minister said.Also Read| Delhi's daily Covid cases down to 6,500; CM announces oxygen concentrator banksThe government will also provide the concentrator to the hospitalised patients who recovered from Covid-19 and have come back home but need oxygen for a few days, as per the advice of the doctors, Kejriwal said during the briefing.“Our doctors will be in constant touch with patients who have been given an oxygen concentrator. These patients will be hospitalised if the need arises. And when they recover, the concentrator will be taken back, sanitised and provided to some other patient.” the CM added.The infected patients which are not a part of the government’s isolation program can dial 1031 and be a part of it and request for a concentrator, Kejriwal said but the doctors will first make sure whether the patient needs it or not.Also Read| Free education, financial aid for Covid orphans: KejriwalIn April, Delhi witnessed the worst health crisis during the pandemic as hospitals ran short of oxygen supplies on a daily basis and were unable to procure them on time. Many critical patients of the Covid-19 disease lost their lives due to the shortage of the lifesaving gas.However, there has been slight improvement in the situation as Delhi’s daily requirement of medical oxygen dropped to 582 metric tonnes (MT) from 700 MT, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said on Thursday and urged the Centre to allot the surplus supplies of the gas to other states which are in need of it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covid19-delhi-to-start-oxygen-concentrator-bank-announces-cm-kejriwal-101621061953664.html
15-05-2021||Lucknow||No ban on bringing bodies to Varanasi for cremation: District magistrate||Varanasi district magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma has clarified that there is no ban on bringing bodies to the city for cremation and that cremations were taking place at Harishchandra and Manikarnika ghats here. The clarification on Friday came after reports of a ban on the transportation of corpses to Varanasi for last rites. Sharma maintained there was never such a ban. Bringing bodies for cremation to the city is permitted during full, partial, and weekend lockdown, he added.He said the Varanasi (rural) superintendent of police has been instructed to convey to police station in-charges that bringing bodies for performing the last rites at the ghats is permitted. Sharma added no one should be stopped.Sharma has issued instructions that if people from outside come to Varanasi with bodies, they should be helped to reach the ghats for the cremations. Municipal authorities late last month made alternative arrangements for cremations of bodies by setting up a temporary crematorium near Vishwasundari Bridge amid a surge in Covid-19 and fatalities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/no-ban-on-bringing-bodies-to-varanasi-for-cremation-district-magistrate-101621061523194.html
15-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi's daily Covid cases down to 6,500; CM announces oxygen concentrator banks||Chief minister of Delhi Arvind Kejriwal said on Saturday that the city recorded 6,500 cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the last 24 hours and the positivity rate further dipped to 11%. This was one per cent lower than Friday."In the last 24 hours, 6,500 Covid-19 cases have been reported in Delhi and the positivity rate has further gone down to 11%. So the impact of the virus is going down in Delhi. As many as 1,000 ICU beds have been set up within 15 days, our doctors and engineers have set an example. I thank them," he said.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe CM also announced that oxygen concentrator banks (OCBs) have be set up in every district of the city and promised doorstep delivery of oxygen to patients. "Every district has an OCB with 200 oxygen concentrators. Our officials will deliver oxygen concentrators within two hours to all patients who are in home isolation and require oxygen," he said.After recovery of patients, the oxygen concentrators will be taken back, sanitised properly, and used for other patients."Patients who have Covid-19, but are not a part of our home isolation group, can call on the number 1031 and become a part of it. They can then avail the aforementioned service. However, a team of doctors will first ensure that the patients who demand concentrators need them," the CM said.On Friday, the city registered 8,500 cases of Covid-19. Addressing a press conference, the CM celebrated Delhi's improving condition. "I want to share a good news with you all. In the last 24 hours, Delhi has registered less than 10k Covid-19 cases," he said. "The infection rate has decreased now. It is 12% today. On April 22, it had reached 36%. This means, less number of people in Delhi are now falling ill. In the last 10 days, 3,000 hospital beds in Delhi have become vacant," he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-reported-6-500-covid-19-cases-in-last-24-hours-arvind-kejriwal-101621060565884.html
15-05-2021||Patna||I am fine, says JDU MP after man spreads rumours about his death||Ruling Janata Dal (United) Parliament member Ajay Kumar Mandal has put out a video saying that he is fine as a man was booked for spreading rumours about the lawmaker’s death of Covid-19 on social media in Bihar’s Bhagalpur.Police said that Suraj Sharma wrote a post on social media about Mandal’s death and 45 people liked and 15 persons comment on it before it was deleted. They added police were trying to retrieve the post for the investigation into the case.In his complaint, Mandal said the rumours have hurt him and angered his supporters. He has also provided police with a screenshot of Sharma’s post.Senior police superintendent Nitasha Guriya said Mandal named Sharma in his complaint about spreading rumours on Facebook about his death due. She added a case has been registered and a probe is underway.Suraj Sharma, who is the son of a Bharatiya Janata Party activist, has been booked under the Indian Penal Code’s Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and under the Information Technology Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/i-am-fine-says-jdu-mp-after-man-spreads-rumours-about-his-death-101621060688832.html
15-05-2021||Chandigarh||Ex-Union minister RL Bhatia dies of Covid-19 in Amritsar||Former Union minister of state for external affairs RL Bhatia died after testing positive for Covid-19 at a private hospital in Amritsar on Friday night. He was 99. Bhatia, who also served as the governor of Kerala from 2004-08, is survived by a son and a daughter, both based in Amritsar. Also read: India adds 326,098 new Covid cases, 3,890 more deaths; tally over 24.37 millionAmritsar West Congress MLA Raj Kumar Verka said that Bhatia was undergoing treatment for Covid-19 at the local Fortis Escorts Hospital and died around 11.30pm on Friday. The cremation will be held around 11.30am on Saturday. Bhatia was first elected as member of Parliament from Amritsar in 1972. He was re-elected in 1980, 1985, 1992, 1996 and 1999. He served as a member of the executive committee of the Congress parliamentary party from 1975-77 and was the chairman of the committee of petitions in the Lok Sabha in 1983. He was the president of the Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee from 1982-84 and AICC general secretary in 1991. He was also a member of the select committee constituted in 1992 for the amendment of the Constitution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/exunion-minister-rl-bhatia-dies-of-covid-19-in-amritsar-101621054803028.html
15-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt sets up panel to monitor use of tocilizumab||The Delhi government has set up a three-member technical expert committee to ensure that the immune-modulator medicine tocilizumab, used to control the hyperactive immune response in the later stages of severe Covid-19, is not indiscriminately used.The committee consists of three doctors from the departments of pulmonology, anaesthesiology, and medicine from Maulana Azad Medical College (attached to Delhi government’s Lok Nayak hospital).“To prevent indiscriminate use of this injection (tocilizumab) and to establish a transparent, efficient, and time-bound system of distribution on clinically approved evidence-based grounds, the competent authority has approved the constitution of a three-member technical expert committee,” reads the order by special secretary (health) Raj Kumar.To get the medicine, hospitals — government and private — have to apply to the technical expert committee, which will meet twice a day, once in the morning and once in the evening, to take decision on the requests. If a request is refused, the reason will be conveyed to the hospital by email.On recommendation of the committee, tocilizumab will be issued by the DGHS to the hospital representative, on payment for the same for the private ones. The DGHS has been directed to ensure that the drug is issued on the same day. It will be the responsibility of the hospital to ensure that there is no pilferage, as per the order.The order also states that the drug will be distributed in this manner till stock remains; no waiting list shall be maintained. Fresh applications will be called in when the next stock arrives.State health minister Satyendar Jain added, “For remdesivir and tocilizumab, all the management and control is in the hands of the central government which is supplied to the hospitals through a website managed by the centre... So, we have passed the order and formed the expert committee to streamline the supply effectively and mobilise it.” The government has an online portal from where hospitals can requisition it after submitting the patient’s details.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-sets-up-panel-to-monitor-use-of-tocilizumab-101621034470698.html
15-05-2021||Delhi||Lawyers’ group sets up Covid field hospital with 50 O2 beds||After observing a lack of resources and scarcity of beds amid the fourth wave of the pandemic, a group of lawyers in the national capital have joined hands to set up a Covid care facility or field hospital with 50 oxygen beds in order to help boost Delhi’s heath infrastructure.The facility, which has oxygen beds, oxygen concentrators and other medical support, has already been set up in a private school in southeast Delhi’s Jamia Nagar. While the facility is yet to receive an approval from the Delhi government, the lawyers — Vaibhav Kakkar, Karan Chandiok, Pooja Mahajan, and Akshay Jain — said it will become operational in “4-5 days”.Chandiok said that he had struggled for 16 hours to get an ICU bed for his uncle who tested positive for Covid-19 last month, and attributed this delay to the relative’s death. “Even as we were helping people in verifying leads for oxygen cylinders, concentrators, beds and medicines, we realised that there was a dearth of medical resources for Covid-19 patients. We decided to pool funds to augment oxygen supply and import oxygen contractors,” he said.The group started working with Aster DM Healthcare, an organisation that runs several hospitals in India and abroad, and Al-Shifa hospital in Delhi.“The field hospital will be managed by Al-Shifa, which will provide doctors and nursing staff. We are looking at a staggered approach in terms of opening. We have placed orders for BiPaP ventilator machines as well. We are waiting for all the required stuff to arrive before approaching the Delhi government for final approval. We might be able to start it in four-five days,” Chandiok said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/lawyers-group-sets-up-covid-field-hospital-with-50-o2-beds-101621034240491.html
15-05-2021||Delhi||Hobby classes in schools to utilise summer break||With schools in the national capital closed for an early summer break, children are now pursuing their hobbies, engaging in extra-curricular activities, taking up entrepreneurial activities, and even volunteering for Covid relief using digital platforms.Taking lessons from her entrepreneurship classes, Nisha Yadav (15), a Class 11 student of a government school in Shakarpur, is now working on her own website by following YouTube tutorials. “I am trying to design an e-commerce platform for people living in villages so that they can get groceries and basic necessities at their doorstep,” said Yadav.On April 19, the Delhi government ordered public and private schools in the Capital to begin their summer vacation three weeks earlier than planned, amid the rising Covid cases. The vacation started on April 20 and will continue till June 6, during which period there will be no online classes, except activity lessons.Recognising the need to maintain connection with children, several top private schools in the city, such as The Indian School, Springdales in Pusa Road, Mount Abu Public School in Rohini, and Tagore International School in Vasant Vihar, are organising experiential activities and hobby classes online.For instance, Modern Public School in Shalimar Bagh has tied up with various private firms and alumni associations to offer online summer internships to its students of classes 9 to 12 on various topics. Class 12 student Bhavidhi Malhotra, who had enrolled for an internship last year, opted for two this time. “One is on astrophysics and the other is on psychology. Since the workshops are online, I can easily attend them and keep myself engaged,” she said.Several cultural centres are also offering language courses. For instance, Korean Cultural Centre, India, (KCCI) has offered a Korean Language program as a hobby class in eight schools. “Due to the increasing popularity of K-pop and K-drama, Korean language has been gaining global popularity in recent years, specially in India,” Hwang IL Yong, Director, KCCI, said.For primary classes, schools are using innovative approaches to keep them engaged. Vandana Tiwari, a teacher at The Indian School, said, “Children in classes 1 to 5 are being engaged in lessons involving experiments that can be done at home.”Several senior students are also engaging in Covid relief work by collating resources, arranging for food and ration for the marginalised. “We started a helpline number last year during the lockdown. So we are continuing with it this year and are arranging for meals, ration, or medicines based on the needs of the people who call,” said Asees Kandhari, a Class 12 student.Schools have also offered counselling services for children unable to cope with the stress of the pandemic. For instance, Mount Abu Public School has started a helpline for its students and teachers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/hobby-classes-in-schools-to-utilise-summer-break-101621028097419.html
15-05-2021||Delhi||Free education, financial aid for Covid orphans: Kejriwal||The Delhi government will provide free education to children who have lost their parents to Covid-19 and financial assistance to all those, especially senior citizens, who have lost the only earning member of their family to the disease, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Friday.Addressing a digital press conference, Kejriwal said that after some time, the Capital’s daily tally of Covid-19 cases has fallen below the 10,000 mark, with around 8,500 cases being recorded in the past 24 hours and the positivity rate further declining to 12%. At its peak, Delhi recorded 28,395 cases on April 20. On April 22, the positivity rate touched 36%.The CM added that in the past 10 days, nearly 3,000 Covid-19 beds have become vacant, although he admitted that the occupancy of ICU beds remains almost 100%.To provide adequate beds and timely treatment to serious Covid-19 patients, he said, about 1,200 ICU beds are nearly ready -- 1,000 at the two Ramlila grounds and the rest at the Radha Saomi Satsang, Beas campus in Chattarpur.“In the past few days, despite all our efforts, we could not save many Delhi people. In many families, there have been more than one death. I know several children who have lost both their parents... Delhi government will bear all the expenses of their education and living. There are also several senior citizens who have lost their children who used to earn. Do not worry, your son is still alive. Delhi government will provide financial assistance to all those families who have lost their sole earning member to Covid-19,” Kejriwal said.Since April 14 (till May 14) Delhi has recorded 9,471 deaths on account of Covid-19, as the surging second wave of the pandemic overwhelmed the Union Territory’s health care system.The Kejriwal government announced a week-end lockdown from April 17 and then extended it on April 19. Delhi remains under the lockdown currently.On Friday, the Delhi cabinet approved the disbursal of financial assistance of ₹5,000 to all auto rickshaw and taxi drivers registered with the state transport department. On May 4, Kejriwal announced the revival of this scheme, which benefited 156,000 drivers having a public service badge or a permit for such vehicles during the lockdown last year. The amount will be directly disbursed to their Aadhaar-linked bank accounts.While the lockdown is supposed to end at 5 am on Monday, the chief minister hinted at retaining the restrictions. “Even today, 8,500 fresh Covid cases have come. We have to bring this down to 0 and hence, we cannot lower our guard at this moment at any cost. If we become lax, then cases might spike again. So, we have to strictly follow the ongoing lockdown and adhere to all the Covid-19 protocols,” he said.The Delhi government said it is ramping up the number of oxygen beds to prepare for any potential surge in cases.A total of 8,506 new cases were reported on Friday, the lowest daily tally since April 10, according to the Delhi government’s health bulletin. The positivity rate – the proportion of samples tested that return positive for Covid-19 – continued its sharp decline and touched 12.4% on Friday, the lowest since April 12.On Friday, Kejriwal also visited the makeshift Covid-19 treatment facility at Ramlila ground which is attached to the Lok Nayak hospital.The 500 ICU-bed facility, which was readied in 15 days, will be operational from Saturday, he said.“From tomorrow, 250 ICU beds, linked to Lok Nayak hospital, will start, and another 250 beds will be operational in 1-2 days. I also visited GTB hospital in east Delhi the day before yesterday (Wednesday), where another 500 ICU beds have been set up. This makes it a total of 1,000 ICU beds added to the bed count in Delhi. Another 200 ICU beds are being arranged at the Radha Soami Covid facility in Chhatarpur, which means that a total of 1,200 ICU beds will be added in Delhi in the next 1-2 days,” he said.At the peak of the fourth wave, in late April, there were no beds to be had in Delhi, and hospitals were running short of oxygen. The situation with respect to both has improved significantly since.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/free-education-financial-aid-for-covid-orphans-kejriwal-101621026891453.html
15-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi cases below 10k first time since April 10||Delhi recorded 8,506 new cases of Covid-19 on Friday, the lowest since April 10, with a nearly four-week long lockdown in the Capital finally bringing its overburdened health infrastructure some breathing room , although ICUs remain mostly full.The city’s test positivity rate too fell to 12.4%, the lowest since April 11, suggesting that the outbreak is receding after a punishing surge that began in mid-April and abated only in recent days.There were 289 more deaths due to Covid-19 on Friday, the government’s health bulletin showed.“Delhi has recorded fewer than 10,000 cases in the last 24 hours. This has been possible only due to a strict lockdown and the discipline of the people in Delhi. For now, we must remember not to let our guard down,” chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Friday. The current lockdown ends on May 17, but it will likely be extended.Kejriwal added that in the past 10 days, 3,000 beds have been freed, “but, ICU beds are still full”.Average daily cases have now fallen by roughly 40% compared to two weeks before, with the test positivity rate reducing by roughly 12.74 percentage points. At its worst, the outbreak led to 28,395 new cases on April 20 and the positivity rate touched a record 36% on April 22.Kejriwal announced a lockdown on April 19 (after announcing a weekend lockdown on April 17) , and the protocol has now been renewed several times and will stay at least till May 17 in order to further flatten the curve.As on Friday, there were 71,794 active cases in the Capital, the lowest since April 19. Roughly a fortnight ago, active cases in the city were hovering close to the 100,000 mark – the number peaked at 99,752 on April 28 -- the highest ever recorded.The crisis stretched the city’s hospitals to breaking point, and triggered a severe shortage for medical oxygen that came into focus on April 22 and would not be resolved until at least May 5, when the Capital finally received over 700MT of stocks in a day after a long-drawn battle between the state and the Centre, which also played out in the high court and the Supreme Court.“There has been a consistent decline in the number of cases and positivity rate for a few days now; Delhi has certainly crossed the peak. Now, even if the government does remove the lockdown, I do not think that the numbers will go up drastically. This is because the infection is following its natural course, with a large chunk of the population already having been exposed to it,” said Dr Jugal Kishore, head of the department of community medicine at Safdarjung hospital.The government, he added, must now focus on strengthening its own systems rather than creating makeshift facilities.Concerns over reopening are also in focus due to new clues surrounding the B.1.617 variant, which has led experts in western countries such as the UK to urge the government there to defer plans to lift the lockdown.Experts have identified surge vaccinations as one of the few ways the threat from the variant can be tackled without having to stay locked down, but Delhi – as well as large parts of India – have faced a shortage of doses, slowing down the pace of vaccinations. The Capital has so far delivered 4.4 million doses -- 1 million people have received have received both doses --- to its roughly 15 million people over the age of 18.Kishore added that the government must now focus its vaccine strategy on the vulnerable. “The people who have had an infection now are more or less protected from a second one for now. So, we should target those who haven’t had an infection and immunise them first,” he said.Dr Suneela Garg, professor of community medicine at Maulana Azad Medical College and a part of Lancet’s Covid-19 task force said: “Right now, we need to focus on breaking the chain of transmission by following Covid appropriate behaviour, testing, and isolating positive cases rigorously”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-cases-below-10k-first-time-since-april-10-101621026914142.html
15-05-2021||Chandigarh||Ex-BDPO, sarpanch booked for embezzling ₹37 lakh in SBS Nagar||A former block development and panchayat officer (BDPO) and an ex-sarpanch of Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar’s Sheikhupur village were booked on Friday for alleged embezzlement of development funds to the tune of ₹37 lakh. The accused are former Aur block BDPO Ashok Kumar, who is now retired, and Sharda Devi, the ex-village head. The case was registered against the two on the complaint of the rural and panchayat development department after a probe was conducted by a superintendent of police (SP)-rank official into the alleged embezzlement of funds. The two were indicted in the probe. The funds were siphoned off from ₹84. 31 lakh the village had received under various schemes. The ex-sarpanch and Ashok Kumar, who was then a panchayat secretary, didn’t match ₹37 lakh in the account books. A police official said while Kumar didn’t join the probe, the former sarpanch failed to show any document proving her innocence. The case was registered under section 420 (punishment for cheating) of the Indian Penal Code at the Mukandpur police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/exbdpo-sarpanch-booked-for-embezzling-rs-37-lakh-in-sbs-nagar-101621024740915.html
15-05-2021||Chandigarh||Conmen posing as Kishor, aides duped Cong MLAs, others of ₹5 crore by promising tickets||The swindlers posing as poll strategist Prashant Kishor, principal adviser to Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh, and his aides duped Congress MLAs and other political leaders of at least ₹5 crore by promising them tickets in the upcoming state assembly elections, police said. Also, they are members of Shiv Sena (Suryavanshi), a Shiv Sena (Thackeray) splinter group. Two of the accused, Rakesh Kumar Bhasin, 48 and Rajat Kumar Raja, 26, were arrested by the Ludhiana police from a hotel near Jalandhar on Thursday. Their accomplice and gang kingpin Gaurav Sharma is on the run. However, the police did not reveal the names of the leaders who gave then money. Rakesh Bhasin, who enjoys security provided by the Punjab government following threats from extremists, is all India president of the Shiv Sena (Suryavanshi) and Rajat Kumar is secretary of the organisation. Four gunmen have been attached with Bhasin. The accused duped two leaders in Sangrur, a former MLA in Batala, and a former mayor in Jalandhar. They also tried to defraud a Ludhiana MLA, it is learnt. Ludhiana joint commissioner of police (rural) Sachin Gupta said the accused have no links with Kishor. He added that Rakesh used to pose as an MLA from Rajasthan, Bihar or Haryana, while Rajat acted as his personal assistant. Since Rakesh had security, people would easily get fooled. Rakesh and Rajat used to approach political leaders, MLAs, former MLAs and other ticket aspirants of different political parties. Then would make them talk to Gaurav Sharma who would impersonate as Kishor. They also duped people in Rajasthan, Bihar and Haryana too, the official claimed. “Gaurav Sharma also has connections with international smugglers who push drugs into India,” he said. Additional deputy commissioner of police (city 2) Jaskiranjit Singh Teja said that Gaurav has been involved in frauds, cybercrime and drug peddling in the past four years and is already five criminal cases. The other accused joined him a year ago, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/conmen-posing-as-kishor-aides-duped-cong-mlas-others-of-rs-5-crore-by-promising-tickets-101621024680948.html
15-05-2021||Chandigarh||Pandemic in Punjab turns grimmer in May||The number of coronavirus causalities in the first 13 days of this month in Punjab has already crossed the cumulative figure of April, an analysis of the state health department’s data reveals. In April, 2,154 people succumbed to the infection, but the state’s death toll was 2,275 from May 1 to 13. The maximum 217 deaths were witnessed on Wednesday (May 12) due to the contagious disease. Ludhiana is the worst-hit district in Punjab with 288 deaths this month so far, followed by Bathinda, Amritsar and Patiala at 233, 206 and 191 fatalities, respectively. Also, Sangrur, Muktsar and Fazilka districts saw 183, 127 and 117 fatalities, respectively due to the infection. 30% deaths this month in four Malwa districts The four districts in the Malwa region — Sangrur, Bathinda, Muktsar and Fazilka —registered 670 deaths this month, nearly 30% of the state’s total deaths. In the past one week, the number of fresh cases in these districts witnessed an unusual spike while registering a positivity rate as high as 20%. All these districts, considered as a hub of the ongoing farm agitation, are predominantly rural. State Covid-19 nodal officer Dr Rajesh Bhaskar said the health department was working on the data to ascertain if the rural areas have witnessed surge in the recent days. “As far as overall deaths are concerned, the case fatality rate (CFR) in urban areas of Punjab has increased in the past few days. While the rural-urban death ratio was 55:45 earlier, it was 48:52 till few days ago,” he said.The government data shows the state’s overall CFR at 2.4%. “There is surge in deaths but the number of fresh cases has also gone up. Therefore, the CFR is almost the same as it was two weeks ago,” said an official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pandemic-in-punjab-turns-grimmer-in-may-101621024260944.html
15-05-2021||Chandigarh||2nd wave further delays construction of BSF barracks at Attari border||The second Covid wave has further delayed the construction of barracks for the Border Security Force (BSF) personnel at the Attari-Wagah border as the construction company concerned has been struggling to get enough labourers due to the restrictions imposed.The ₹33-crore project is aimed to strengthen the security of the integrated check post (ICP), which facilitates India’s trade with Pakistan and Afghanistan, and the joint check post (JCP) that is famous for Beating the Retreat ceremony at the Attari-Wagah border.Earlier, the project was to be completed by March 31, 2021. However, its deadline was extended till April 30. Officials of the Land Port Authority of India (LPAI), which is overseeing the project, said due to the coronavirus-induced restrictions, the project has missed its deadline.“Ninety percent of the construction work has been completed. Only the interior works are pending. Indian Railway Construction Limited (IRCON), which is responsible for the construction works, had sought a three-month extension citing shortage of labourers. Now, the project will be completed by August 31,” said LPAI’s ICP manager Sukhdev Singh.He said once constructed, the project will be handed over to the BSF. Most of the migrant labourers have gone back to their native towns fearing lockdown, he added.For now, the troops manning the ICP and the JCP have been accommodated at the BSF’s Khasa headquarter, which is around 20km from the border. A BSF official said, “It takes around 25-30 minutes to reach the border from Khasa. We will be able to guard the border 24x7 once the residential buildings are constructed.”The project — comprising one four-storey and one two-storey building — has already missed three deadlines. The construction of the barracks was started in December 2018.The flats in the four-storey building will be for jawans, while BSF officials will reside in flats in the double-storey building, said a LPAI official. A dormitory is also being built for women personnel of the BSF.The projectTotal cost: ₹33 croreNew deadline: August 2021Total facilities: 370 flats: a 4-storey and 2-storey buildingDorm for women personnel: 1||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/2nd-wave-further-delays-construction-of-bsf-barracks-at-attari-border-101621022700851.html
15-05-2021||Chandigarh||Nearly 3,000 prisoners set to be released from Punjab jails amid Covid’s 2nd wave||The Punjab government is all set to release nearly 3,000 prisoners lodged in various jails as the second Covid wave continues to ravage the state.The decision was taken during the meeting of the high-powered committee convened by Punjab Legal Services Authority chairperson Justice Ajay Tiwari, along with members principal secretary (jails) DK Tiwari and ADGP (prisons) PK Sinha.So far, 24,000 people have been imprisoned in the state’s 24 jails which have the capacity to house only 23,500 inmates. The process to decongest prisons across the state — some of them are immensely overcrowded — will start from Monday.The Supreme Court had directed the states to examine releasing inmates, convicted or facing trial in non-serious charges, from jails either on regular bail or on parole to prevent overcrowding and spread of Covid in prisons during the current surge.“During the committee’s meeting that was held on the direction of the apex court, it was decided to release around 3,000 prisoners. The process to release them will begin in a day or two,” said Punjab jails minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa.He said most of these prisoners were those who were released last year during the first Covid wave. In March 2020, the state had planned to release around 6,000 prisoners. “These prisoners will be brought back to the jails once the Covid situation improves,” he said.Sources said convicted prisoners will be released on parole and undertrials on interim bail for 90 days. Prisoners sentenced up to seven years with maximum two undertrial cases (both on bail), and further should have availed last parole peacefully, will be considered for release on parole.A senior jails official said, “We will also release the inmates with comorbidities, besides those who are above 65 years. Those convicted or charged under murder, rape, snatching, acid attack, POCSO Act, UAPA, Explosives Act and foreign nationals will not be considered for release. Such prisoners can avail their regular parole.”He said, “So far, we have recorded 3,000 positive cases and six deaths among the inmates. We have also vaccinated 35% of the total inmates and 85% of the staff in the jails.” The superintendents of jails concerned have been empowered to process the cases of parole in order to expedite the release. Amritsar jail superintendent Arshdeep Singh Gill said they have decided to release 150 to 200 prisoners — whose lists are being prepared. The high-security Amritsar Central Jail has been overcrowded with 3,200 inmates. The jail, however, has the capacity to house 2,200 inmates.Randhawa said, “We have asked the police department to conduct Covid tests of all the accused being arrested. Our jails receive only those accused who test negative for the virus. Those who test positive are sent to the quarantine jails until their next tests’ reports come negative. After testing negative, these accused are sent to the isolation cells of the various jails for another 14 days before being shifted to general wards.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/nearly-3-000-prisoners-set-to-be-released-from-punjab-jails-amid-covid-s-2nd-wave-101621021861084.html
15-05-2021||Chandigarh||Six tocilizumab vials go missing from Patiala’s Rajindra hospital||Six tocilizumab vials went missing from the isolation ward of Covid care centre at government Rajindra Hospital in Patiala, police said on Friday. An FIR has been registered against unidentified persons after the hospital authorities filed a written complaint with the senior superintendent of police (SSP). A single vial of the medicine costs around ₹34,000 and is provided to hospitals at government price only. These injections are administered to critical Covid patients, mainly on ventilator support. “An internal committee has been set up to investigate the matter,” said Surabhi Malik, in-charge of Covid-19 care facility of the hospital. She added that it was a serious issue and must be probed thoroughly. It may be mentioned here that the isolation wards of the hospital are under tight surveillance of CCTV cameras. Even cops have been deployed outside the wards to restrict entry of outsiders. When asked about the role of hospital staffers in the theft, Malik said it was too early to come to a conclusion as the matter was under investigation. This incident took place early this week, but came to the light only after police registered an FIR under section 380 (theft) of the IPC on Thursday evening. “There is already severe shortage of these injections in the market. The hospitals procured remdevisir and tocilizumab on demand from health department. Moreover, the price of a single tocilizumab injection in black market is pegged between ₹80,000 and ₹1 lakh,” said a senior doctor.Meanwhile, medical college principal Dr Rajan Singla said a three-member committee of senior professors has been constituted to investigate the matter so that responsibility could be fixed.Civil Lines SHO Gurpreet Singh said they were scanning footage from the CCTV cameras installed at the hospital.“Other technical and physical evidences are also being looked into to identify the accused,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/six-tocilizumab-vials-go-missing-from-patiala-s-rajindra-hospital-101621021803241.html
15-05-2021||Other||15 lakh poppy plants destroyed in Himachal’s Mandi district||In a three-day operation, the Himachal Police have destroyed poppy cultivation on 66 bighas of forest and private land in Mandi district’s Chuhar ghatti, which is infamous for opium cultivation. Acting on a tip from the public, three teams was sent to recce the area to verify whether poppy was being cultivated illegally on May 12, said Mandi superintendent of police Shalini Agnihotri. On confirmation, four teams headed by the Padhar station house officer and sub-divisional police officer (SDPO) were mobilised and at least 15 lakh plants were destroyed. “TActing on a tip from the public, three teams was sent to recce the area to verify whether poppy was being cultivated illegally on May 12,” Agnihotri said. While heavy rain and hailstorms impeded the teams’ movement, the party continued with the operation. The teams had to trek for three hours to reach the first hill top. “When the news of the police reached the people, locals started uprooting the poppy plants at one of the spots,” the SP said. Around 66, 14, and 13 bighas of government and private land was found to be under illegal cultivation of poppy plants over the three hills. “The operation started with an initial recce on May 12 and the final raid began on May 13. The teams left the police station Padhar (Drang) at 8:30am on May 13 and the last team returned at around 3pm on Friday. The raid took around 17 hours amid heavy rain and hailstorms,” the SP said. Four cases have been registered so far under Section 18 of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act (NDPS) Act. As per estimates, around five to six kilograms of opium is produced on a bigha of land. Around 330kg of the narcotic could have been produced in the area.” I have congratulated the teams, great efforts were made by the teams to detect and destroy the opium,” director general of police Sanjay Kundu said. Any tipoffs about drug trafficking can be directly shared with SP Mandi on 93172-21001. The name and identification of the informer shall be kept secret.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/15-lakh-poppy-plants-destroyed-in-himachal-s-mandi-district-101621021801760.html
15-05-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: An anthology of our feelings||It is perhaps the first time that the entire Delhi, with all its diverse complexities, has come around to a singular theme—of grief and fear about the ongoing surge of the coronavirus pandemic. While everybody is in isolation, we bring together the Capital’s citizens by offering raw voices from a spectrum of neighbourhoods.Shivam Sharma in Mayur Vihar Phase 1“My family’s WhatsApp group comprises of memes, obnoxious jokes, gossips, images of Gods wishing ‘Goodmorning’, and some bogus home remedies for coronavirus. Today I offered condolences as my first contribution to it.”Sumit Chauhan in Narela“When I was Covid positive, my mother told me, ‘Ho jayega thik tu, mein hu na (you’ll get fine, I’m here).’ Now she is not there for me.”Kavita Jaiswal in Chattarpur“In these times, my selfish mind also thinks of the business venture I been have building for some years. But there’s no space (emotionally and mentally) to discuss economic consequences, loans and our dreams.”Tridib Ray in Lodhi Colony“I’ve been sleeping here in my father’s room since he shifted to the hospital. My father could turn any place into an atmosphere of liveliness. I knew that silence would follow, but now there’s an echo as well.”Devadarshini Shandilya in Dwarka“For people who have had to stay away from parents, family, partners and for those who are all by themselves—we don’t know where we are headed, even as we sit with all the luxuries by our side, alone.”Avarna Ojha in Vasant Kunj“Ever since my grandmother passed away last April, I have been visiting Sanjay Van to cry for two hours almost everyday. But then that day also came when I went to just be there. It is possible to learn to live with loss.”Utkarsha Bansal in Pitampura“God, if you’re there, please keep him alive. Soon I’ll report negative too. And we’ll all be alright.”Nomita Rana in Keshav Puram“Mumma told me yesterday that she and papa don’t care if I get lower marks this semester, or if this leads to my career not accelerating as fast as we would want it to. That my health and life are more important.”Baneet Kaur in Rajouri Garden“This is my second time with Covid. Not feeling well. This apartment, where I am isolated. Last year, my father attempted suicide here because of the pandemic and his mental illness. We almost lost him.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhiwale-an-anthology-of-our-feelings-101621021358526.html
15-05-2021||Chandigarh||Capt asks villagers to restrict entry of Covid positive people||Chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Friday urged people to restrict their movement in villages to only those persons who are free of the virus amid Covid spike in rural areas of the state.Addressing the people of the state in a live Facebook telecast, the CM called for strict measures in the rural areas over the next two months, which he described as extremely crucial.“Now, the rural areas are seeing a surge in cases, so we need to be very careful,” he said, urging villagers to conduct ‘thikri pheras’ to keep outsiders away.“Don’t allow (unwell) people to enter (villages). Ask them to bring a (COVID-negative) certificate from the doctor,” he said.Exhorting people to “save your mohallas and villages to save yourself, your families and Punjab”, the CM asked them not to delay going to hospitals on time. “We have teams of doctors everywhere, approach them if you feel unwell,” he urged them, stressing that delay in going for treatment was leading to people ending up in critical category. While occupancy of L2 beds is 50%, at the L3 level (critical), around 90% of the beds are currently occupied, and the state government is in the process of adding another 2,000, he said, attributing this to people not going for treatment in time.Amarinder reiterated his plea to the people to go to the doctor at the first sign of symptoms. “Let the doctor decide the course of treatment, don’t get into diagnosis and medication yourself,” he appealed to them. I fail to understand why we are harming the interests of the state and your families in this manner,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/capt-asks-villagers-to-restrict-entry-of-covid-positive-people-101621021680813.html
15-05-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal’s deadliest day yet with 67 fatalities||Friday turned out to be the deadliest day for Himachal Pradesh as 67 patients succumbed to the coronavirus infection, the highest single-day deaths since the outbreak in March 2020, catapulting the hill state’s death toll to 2,185. With 32 deaths, Kangra, the most populous district, clocked the highest fatalities. The virus claimed 10 lives in Hamirpur, six in Una, seven in Mandi, four each in Shimla and Solan, three in Kullu and one in Chamba. The small state had earlier reported the highest deaths in day on May 12 when 66 people had succumbed to the infection. The state also recorded 3,044 fresh infections, taking the state’s case count to 1,53,717. Of the new cases, 724 were reported in Kangra, 343 in Bilaspur, 313 in Solan, 299 each in Mandi and Sirmaur, 265 in Una, 264 in Hamirpur, 249 in Chamba, 180 in Shimla, 62 in Kullu, 27 in Kinnaur and 19 in Lahaul-Spiti.Recoveries reached 1,11878 after 3,362 people recuperated while there are 39,623 active cases in state.Kangra is the worst hit district with 32,730 cases followed by Mandi (21,213) and Shimla (19,959). The most populous district accounts for 21% of the total disease burden of the state and also has highest 12,258 active cases. So far, Solan has logged 18,473 cases, Sirmaur 11,886, Hamirpur 10,794, Una 10,016, Bilaspur 9,569, Chamba 7,382, Kullu 7,123, Lahaul-Spiti 2,298 and Kinnaur 2,274.Month-old infant dies of Covid at IGMC
15-05-2021||Other||With 3,027 cases, J&K clocks lowest daily spike in May||With 3,027 fresh infections, Jammu and Kashmir logged the lowest single-day spike in infections this month on Friday even as 60 people succumbed to the virus. The drop in cases detected can be attributed to the fewer tests conducted as only 31,500 tests were conducted on Friday against the average of 44,000 tests being conducted daily for the past 10 days. Owing to Eid, fewer people ventured out to get themselves tested. Of the 60 deaths in J&K, 39 were reported in Jammu division and 21 in Kashmir and of the new cases, 1,516 were detected in Kashmir, 1,511 from Jammu and 56 were travellers. The Union territory has logged 3,027 fatalities and 2, 36,790 cases so far. May has proved to be the worst month for Jammu and Kashmir in terms of Covid cases and deaths as the monthly infections reached 60,707 and fatalities to 745 even as 36,321 patients recovered this month.Dr Yasir Rather, professor, department of psychiatry, GMC, Srinagar, said that the Covid pandemic and its second wave had created fear and anxiety among the people, which had taken a toll on their mental health.“It is equally important to take care of mental health as well as the respiratory system,” he said. “People should not focus on the issues which are beyond their reach. They should spend time with family and children, create innovative ways and hobbies for interaction ,” he said.Officials said with 534 cases, Jammu had the highest number of new infections, followed by 379 in Srinagar district, 308 in Budgam, 221 in Udhampur and 197 in Kathua. Dr Yasir stated that due to the panic, people keep hoarding essential items including oxygen which affects others who are in need of them. “This practice aggravates the situation and creates further pani,” he said. He stressed on the routine of physical exercises and brisk walk. “Exercises and brisk walking release endorphins and keep the mood of a person elevated and helps to overcome and alleviate anxiety”. As many as 1,81,762 people have recovered so far, taking the recovery rate to 76.76 % against around 98% in the first fortnight of February. Srinagar and Jammu districts have together contributed for about 99,700 cases and 1,436 deaths. After 3 Jammu doctors succumb Three Jammu doctors succumbed to the coronavirus on Thursday. The doctors are former Poonch chief medical officer Dr Akram Malik, Dr Busharat Hussain Shah of Mendher and Dr Tahir Haroon Mirza of Rajouri. Mirza, 51, had been posted at the Emergency Hospital, Chowki Choura, Akhnoor and was undergoing treatment at the Command Hospital in Udhampur. Malik succumbed at the Narayana Superspeciality Hospital in Kakryal. Shah, an ISM practitioner, was serving in Uttarakhand, where he succumbed to the virus. Citing the three deaths, Udhampur deputy magistrate Indu Chib urged the public to follow all coronavirus protocols “at least for their sake.”2nd wave highly virulent, fatal: ExpertDr Sandeep Dogra, microbiology consultant, Government Medical College, Jammu said, “The Covid virus variant from the second wave is more transmissive and more fatal than the previous one. If we do not stop its chain of transmission, nothing can stop the virus from mutating further and producing deadlier variants.” Dogra said that while the first wave mostly affected the middle aged, the old and the sick, the second wave is targeting all age groups and is more transmissive on the whole. He says that the second wave has reached far into the rural areas of the country unlike the first one. Cong welcomes expert team’s visit to JammuCongress has welcomed the Centre’s decision to send a team of experts to assess the Covid situation in Jammu hospitals amid high mortality rate and a large number of daily casualties for the last several days. Last week, the Congress had asked the government to send a team of experts from AIIMS and PGI Chandigarh to ascertain the causes behind spiraling Covid deaths in Jammu. The issue had also been raised with lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha by Congress president G A Mir and chief spokesperson Ravinder Sharma. Ladakh postpones Sindhu Darshan FestivalAfter the Ladakh administration’s decision to go ahead with the Sindhu Darshan festival despite the being in the midst of the second wave of the coronavirus pandemic came under fire, officials on Friday said the event had been postponed. Tourism and Culture secretary Mehboob Ali Khan clarified that the review meeting convened on May 12 to review the progress of the ongoing work at Sindhu Ghat and Indus River Front was not related to organising the Sindhu Darshan event. Initially, the darshan was scheduled to be held from June 19 to 27.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/with-3-027-cases-j-k-clocks-lowest-daily-spike-in-may-101621021502445.html
15-05-2021||Chandigarh||Ahead of polls, Amarinder declares Malerkotla as Punjab’s 23rd district||As the state heads for elections early next year, Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh fulfilled a long-pending demand of announcing Malerkotla as the 23rd district of the state on the occasion of Eid-ul-Fitr on Friday. Making the announcement virtually from Chandigarh, the chief minister said a medical college, a degree college, a women’s police station and a smart school would be set up in Malerkotla, Punjab’s only Muslim-dominated town. Malerkotla, which is around 35km from the Sangrur district headquarters, a district status was a pre-poll promise by the Congress.The CM said initially the sub-divisions of Malerkotla and Ahmedgarh, as well as the sub-tehsil of Amargarh, would be included in the new district. The process of bringing villages under the jurisdiction of Malerkotla district would begin later, after the census, he added.Amarinder directed Sangrur deputy commissioner Ramvir to find a suitable building to immediately start the functioning of the district administration office. The deputy commissioner for the newly carved out district would be appointed soon, he said.“A government medical college in the name of Nawab Sher Mohammed Khan, who raised his voice against the inhuman act of torture and bricking alive the younger Sahibzadas, would soon be set up at a cost of ₹500 crore. The state government had already allotted 25 acres of land on Raikot Road to enable the local boys and girls to pursue medical education. The first instalment of ₹50 crore for the purpose had already been sanctioned,” the CM added.Amarinder also announced the establishment of a government college for girls, a women police station, to be exclusively managed by women, and a new bus stand to be constructed at a cost of ₹10 crore and ₹6 crore under the Urban Environment Improvement Programme (UEIP) for the new district. Local MLA and transport minister Razia Sultana said that it was a historic occasion as the CM had accepted a long-pending demand of residents and it will also benefit the party in the upcoming polls. Seven screens were installed in the town for live telecast of the events from Chandigarh and Malerkotla.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ahead-of-polls-amarinder-declares-malerkotla-as-punjab-s-23rd-district-101621021501153.html
15-05-2021||Chandigarh||Rising Covid infection among pregnant women sparks concern||The second Covid wave is impacting pregnant women in the state adversely and this has sent alarm bells ringing in the medical fraternity. In the recent weeks, hundreds of women in their late 20s and 30s across the state have tested positive with over a dozen of them succumbing to the virus. Cases are only rising and doctors fear that such fatalities may further increase. According to doctors, two such deaths have been reported in the last two days alone when pregnant women in their 30s, one from Patiala and another from Ludhiana, died after being infected with the virus. “Such severe complications in pregnant women were totally unheard of during the first wave. Doctors are witnessing a challenge attending to Covid positive pregnant women, whose number have increased substantially over the last few weeks. There is already a high positivity rate in the state and the number of pregnant women testing positive have increased proportionately,” said Dr Bishav Mohan, senior cardiologist at Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH), Ludhiana, and a member of the panel of doctors of the Dr KK Talwar committee to manage Covid-19 in Punjab. “Out of every 100 pregnant women who test positive, 10 to 15 % of them now need advanced tertiary care. This percentage was barely 2% in the previous wave,” said a gynaecologist working in a state-run hospital, while requesting anonymity. Faced with this major challenge, the doctors have devised a strategy to treat the Covid positive pregnant women. “Saving both the mother and child is a highly challenging task faced by doctors in cases with severe complications. The mother’s safety is always on our priority and in severe cases, where saturation is falling very low, wherever we find that a woman is in an advanced state of pregnancy, our effort is to save both by facilitating a premature delivery,” added Dr Mohan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/rising-covid-infection-among-pregnant-women-sparks-concern-101621021320683.html
15-05-2021||Chandigarh||Experts divided as Srinagar’s daily cases hold steady for a week||With the daily average cases in Srinagar, the summer capital of Jammu and Kashmir, hovering around 800 for a week, it appears that the infections in the district have plateaued out. However, experts remain divided. The district, which is the worst-hit in the UT with 10,687 active infections, had witnessed a record breaking spurt in daily infections in May, with the daily cases going as high as 1,311 on May 4. However, after May 8, the daily cases have mostly been below 1,000 with an average 775 cases per day. There has been an imperceptible change in the daily infections since May 11, with the district recording 846 cases on May 11, 863 on May 12, and 872 on May 13. Srinagar clocked 115 deaths from May 1 to 13, of the total 685 fatalities in the UT. Kashmir Doctors’ Association president Dr MY Tak said the declining numbers are a sign that Srinagar is hitting a plateau. “The figures in the coming days will tell whether we have hit a plateau. However, we are hopeful as the cases have started declining. Cases in Delhi and UP had plateaued out a week back, we are achieving it now,” Tak said. On whether the lockdown had been instrumental in bringing down the infections, Tak said the impact of the restrictions will manifest in around 10 days. J&K has registered the highest cases and fatalities in the first 13 days of May, with 57,680 cases and 685 deaths, of which at least 13,000 have been reported from Srinagar. Aabid Maqbool, president, Resident Doctors’ Association, Sher-i-Kashmir Institute of Medical Sciences (SKIMS), Srinagar, said that it was premature to say that the cases in Srinagar had stabilised.“There may be many factors at play for the apparent phenomenon. We are not sure if the tests are the same or have decreased. The lockdown restrictions have been enforced strictly and many people may not be getting themselves tested. It is a dynamic situation and it is premature to say we have hit a plateau,” he said. Cautioning people against becoming lax, deputy commissioner Srinagar Ajaz Asad said, “371 Positive Cases in Srinagar today is the lowest in last 20 days. Still not a good data for good conclusion. Pl remember, the Virus loves to troll. Loves to ambush.”Srinagar is J&K’s worst-affected district with overall 56,416 cases (till May 13) and 651 fatalities. Jammu comes at a close second with 42,442 cases, of which 7,589 are active and 758 fatalities. Jammu’s deaths surpassed Srinagar’s this month with the unusually high 280 fatalities in May. “Srinagar’s population density is more and the movement of people is more. In fact cases and mortality in Srinagar was also more. Srinagar will tell us about how Covid is going to unfold in other places of J&K,” the DAK president Dr Tak said.The administration has tightened the restrictions in the capital city after Eid and has installed roadblocks in many parts of the city to stop private transport from plying.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/experts-divided-as-srinagar-s-daily-cases-hold-steady-for-a-week-101621021203788.html
15-05-2021||Chandigarh||5 children among 6 drown in Ludhiana village pond, four were siblings||Five children aged between 4 and 10, including four siblings, and a 22-year-old male rescuer drowned in a pond at Manngarh village of Koomkalan in Ludhiana district on Friday afternoon. The victims have been identified as Sonu (4), Chhoti (6), Aarti (8),Laxmi (1o), Mohammad Kaleem (10), and Rahul (22), all victims belong to the families of labourers. Sonu, Chhoti, Aarti and Laxmi were siblings. According to the villagers, the children were playing near the pond when one of them reportedly slipped into the pond and the rest jumped in for rescue and perished. A passerby, Rahul Kumar, entered the pond to save the children, but he too drowned. Later, villagers informed the police. Joint commissioner of police (JCP, Rural) Sachin Gupta said a police team reached the spot and took divers’ help. All the six bodies were fished out after two hours, he said. The JCP said the bodies were found on the deeper side of the pond and they were stuck on the pond bed. The bodies were sent to the civil hospital for postmortem. Kokila, the mother of four siblings, passed out seeing the bodies of her children. The victims’ father, Sanjay Kumar, a factory worker, said they used to deter the children from going near the pond. Farzana, the mother of Mohammad Kaleem, her son left the house in new clothes and took ₹10 from her as Eidi for buying chips. He had promised to come back in a few minutes, said the mother. Meanwhile, Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh announced an ex gratia of ₹50,000 each to the families of the six victims.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/5-children-among-6-drown-in-ludhiana-village-pond-four-were-siblings-101621021202635.html
15-05-2021||Other||Pak drone drops pistol, AK-47 in J&K’s Samba||JAMMUA day after India and Pakistan armies exchanged sweets and pleasantries on the Line of Control (LoC) in Poonch district, Border Security Force personnel recovered a payload of arms and ammunition dropped by a Pakistani drone along the International Border in Samba on Friday. The drone is suspected to have flown back into the Pakistani territory after it dropped the consignment 250m inside Indian territory, officials said.BSF Jammu frontier deputy inspector general of police (DIG) SPS Sandhu said, “BSF troops recovered a consignment of arms and ammunition meant for overground workers working with terrorists near the Regal Post of the BSF along the IB in Samba at around 12.15am.” The consignment, which was wrapped in polythene, included an AK-47 assault rifle, a 9mm pistol, a 9mm magazine, 15 pistol rounds and a wooden frame used to support the payload in the drone, Sandhu said. Sandhu said, “We immediately lodged a protest note with the Pak Rangers, but they always remain in a denial mode.”Congratulating the troops, IG, BSF Jammu, NS Jamwal termed the recovery as a “big achievement”, and said the force is ever alert and vigilant on the IB to thwart away the nefarious designs of Pakistan. The weapons were recovered from the same area where a trans-border tunnel was detected on November 22 and a Pakistani intruder was killed on May 5, he said. On April 24, two Pakistani drones had entered Indian territory in Arnia sector of Jammu district. After the BSF guards opened fire, they flew back into Pakistani territory. On May 3, after truce was upheld for around two months, Pakistan had breached the ceasefire agreement with unprovoked firing at the Border Security Force (BSF) patrol in Ramgarh sector of Jammu’s Samba district. On May 10, around 9.55pm suspected terrorists hurled a grenade at a police picket at Nud in Samba that exploded but missed the intended target.  The BSF had also shot down a Pakistani hexa-copter carrying a huge cache of arms and ammunition on June 2020 in Kathua.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pak-drone-drops-pistol-ak-47-in-j-k-s-samba-101621021023545.html
15-05-2021||Chandigarh||Single-day Covid recoveries surpass new cases as 8,446 recuperate in Punjab||For the first time in the past one-and-a-half-month, Punjab’s single-day recoveries surpassed the number of new infections on Friday, with 8,446 people having recuperated from Covid, even as the total caseload reached 4,83,984 with 8,068 fresh cases, according to a media bulletin released by the health department.The state’s positivity rate also dropped to 11.29%, the lowest in the past seven days with Punjab conducting 71,470 tests, the highest in a day. The number of active cases in the state dropped to 79,359 from 79,950 on Thursday.The state reported 180 more fatalities, pushing the death toll to 11,477. A maximum of 23 deaths were witnessed in Amritsar, 19 in Ludhiana and 18 in Bathinda. Ludhiana topped the chart with 1,320 fresh cases, followed by 988 in Bathinda, 661 in Mohali, 570 in Patiala, 551 in Jalandhar, 486 in Pathankot, 451 in Fazilka, 408 in Amritsar, 403 in Muktsar, 358 in Hohiarpur, 258 in Gurdaspur, 258 in Mansa, 236 in Sangrur, 229 in Ferozepur, 176 in Farikdot, 167 in Ropar, 166 in Kapurthala, 135 in Fatehgarh Sahib, 112 in SBS Nagar, 70 in Moga, 53 in Barnala and 12 in Tarn Taran. Bathinda registered maximum positivity rate of 21.60%, followed by 18.38% in Pathankot, 17.9% in Mohali and 16.11% in Muktsar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/singleday-covid-recoveries-surpass-new-cases-as-8-446-recuperate-in-punjab-101621021020859.html
15-05-2021||Chandigarh||Immigration offences: Two Punjab-origin men detained in Scotland, released after protest||Two Indians detained by British Border Force officials on suspicion of immigration offences in the Scottish city of Glasgow have been released after residents swarmed the street for eight hours to block their van from leaving, according to media reports.The two were released on bail pending further investigation.Hundreds of residents had surrounded the Border Agency van in the Pollokshields area of Glasgow to try to prevent immigration officers from removing the men. One person lay underneath the van, The Independent reported.The protesters chanted “Leave our neighbours, let them go” and “Cops go home” being heard as a ring of police stood around the van, local Scottish newspapers said.Officers said they were freeing the men for the safety of everyone involved following a stand-off in Glasgow.The protest prompted Scottish first minister Nicola Sturgeon to accuse the home office of creating “a dangerous and unacceptable situation”.Announcing the men’s release, Police Scotland said in a statement: “In order to protect the safety, public health and wellbeing of all people involved in the detention and subsequent protest in Kenmure Street, Pollokshields, chief superintendent Mark Sutherland has, following a suitable risk assessment, taken the operational decision to release the men detained by UK Immigration Enforcement back into their community meantime.” One of the men, Lakhvir Singh, 34, said: “I’ve been astonished and overwhelmed by the support I’ve received from the people of Glasgow. At 9.30am, immigration enforcement carried out a raid and we were taken to security in the van. There were only five or six people at the time but word spread and then there were crowds of hundreds. We are so grateful for the support,” he was quoted by The Independent newspaper as saying.Scotland’s justice secretary, Humza Yousaf, asked to speak to UK home secretary Priti Patel about the events.The Sikhs in Scotland group said in a statement that it was “deeply concerned” and urged the home office to “abandon forced removals and to adopt an immigration policy based on human rights, compassion and dignity”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/immigration-offences-two-punjab-origin-men-detained-in-scotland-released-after-protest-101621020840944.html
15-05-2021||Chandigarh||Covid on downward trajectory in Chandigarh tricity||The number of new Covid-19 cases in the tricity dropped to 1,729 on Friday, lowest since the grim milestone of 2,000 was breached for the first time on April 22. The daily figures have been dropping consistently after peaking at 2,612 on May 10. At 20, the tricity also recorded the lowest fatality figures in the past eight days. The all-time high was recorded on May 5 with 38 deaths. The number of active cases is also on the downward trajectory, falling by 7.6% in a day from Thursday’s 23,432 to 21,630 on Friday.While seeing the trend as a “ray of hope”, experts say it will have to be observed for a few more days before confirming whether the “worst is over” in the pandemic’s second wave.On Friday, Mohali district reported 661 cases and 10 deaths, followed by 650 cases and eight casualties in Chandigarh and 418 cases and two fatalities in Panchkula. With the number of patients being cured and discharged remaining higher than the daily case load for the past few days, the number of active cases has dropped to 8,158 from the peak of 8,653 on May 10 in Chandigarh.Meanwhile, with eight people, including two in their late 30s, succumbing to the virus, the death toll has reached 617. Of 54,043 people tested so far, 45,268 have recovered in the UT.In Mohali, a record 1,942 patients were discharged on Friday, which brought down the number of active cases to 10,914 from 12,203.The district has reported 59,524 cases so far, of which 47,870 have been cured and 740 patients have died. In Panchkula, both fatalities concerned two men in their late 30s, which took the toll to 274.The infection tally has reached 27,071, of which 24,249 patients have recovered and 2,548 are still undergoing treatment.Curbs should continue to sustain trend, say experts“There is a ray of hope with the current trajectory of cases, as the seven-day average of cases as well as the number of active cases are seeing a declining trend,” said Dr Rajesh Kumar, former head of the PGIMER’s school of public health and community medicine department, while adding that there is a need for constant enforcement of the lockdown and safety measures, which have “possibly resulted in stabilising the situation”. “The decrease in daily numbers may be due to the restriction measures being taken by the tricity authorities,” concurred Dr PVM Lakshmi, an epidemiologist at the same department. However, Dr Lakshmi said a consistent trend for over a week will present a better picture about which direction the pandemic is leading to. “Even in terms of positive cases among health workers at the PGIMER, we have seen a marginal dip, which is a good sign. Tracing, testing, and treatment can make this trend sustain,” she said, adding that lockdown helps in restricting the number of contacts of an infected person. Dr Adarshpal Kaur, civil surgeon, Mohali, said the cases were expected to plateau and there has been no decline in testing as such.Dr Amandeep Kang, director, health services, Chandigarh, said: “Our efforts will be directed towards maintaining the current trend, but people should take all precautions. Even if the restrictions are eased, residents should avoid venturing out for non-essential works.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-on-downward-trajectory-in-chandigarh-tricity-101621020061614.html
15-05-2021||Chandigarh||Amid Covid surge, Chandigarh’s crematoria facing wood shortage||With an unprecedented number of cremations taking place in the city during the current wave of Covid-19, cremation ground operators are beginning to see a shortage of wood. According to them, each funeral pyre requires about 3-4 tonnes of wood.The caretaker of Industrial Area cremation ground, Deen Dyal Tripathi, said, “The number of cremations taking place here, both Covid and non-Covid, have gone up and though we require 60 tonnes of wood daily, these days it is hard to get. Each cremation takes up around 3-4 tonnes of wood.”While the average number of monthly cremations in 2019 was 15-20, these days as many are being performed daily. Moreover, the price of wood has doubled, said Tripathi, adding that there is a shortage of supply from the contractors, partly because of wood being diverted to other cities in Punjab, Haryana and Delhi, besides unavailability of labourers.A similar situation has gripped Sector 25 and Manimajra cremation grounds. Ashwani Kumar, caretaker of Manimajra crematorium, said, “During the first Covid wave, every day we would get three to four trucks full of wood, but now supply has reduced even as the demand is high. The municipal corporation fixes the rates, but procurement is done by the crematorium staff from contractors in Punjab, Yamunanagar and Uttar Pradesh.”“We had a backup of around 3,000 tonnes of wood at the cremation centre before April, however, now about half of it is left. It will last us till the end of the month, but if the situation does not improve, an acute shortage is expected in June,” said an official from the Sector 25 cremation ground.Residents complain of overcharging Amid the ongoing Covid crisis, some residents have raised complaints of overcharging at the city’s crematoria.A resident who had paid for a cremation on April 26 at the Industrial Area crematorium said he was charged ₹6,000.However, caretaker Tripathi refuted the allegations saying, “The cost of wood is fixed at ₹3,500 here. Other expenses like ‘samgiri’ and donation to the pandit must have been included in the total amount.”MC leader of opposition Devinder Singh Babla has also submitted a complaint regarding this to the civic body. The MC will now bear the cost of cremation for poor Covid victims.Even though wood used for traditional cremation in Sector 25 is priced at ₹3,000, the LPG crematorium next to the cremation ground charges only ₹30. However, according to the officials here, people still prefer the traditional way.“The low cost is not bringing more bodies to our crematorium. Most people who use our facilities come from affluent families and choose it because it causes less pollution. Mostly Sikh families use our facilities, and Hindu families prefer the traditional method of cremation,” they said.While last year there was a shortage of lockers at the city’s crematoria, this problem has been resolved this year, according to Ashwani Kumar. “Last year, due to movement restrictions, people were unable to collect the mortal remains on time, which led to the lockers running out of space,” he said, adding that now people have been told to collect the remains within one day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/amid-covid-surge-chandigarh-s-crematoria-facing-wood-shortage-101621019701423.html
15-05-2021||Chandigarh||Two Bengal Tiger cubs born at Mohali’s Chhatbir Zoo||Two Bengal Tiger cubs were born to white tigress Diya at Chhatbir Zoo here, officials said on Friday. Diya is about eight years old and the cubs’ sire is Aman, a nine-year-old Bengal Tiger.Both the cubs are healthy and under Diya’s care and constant CCTV monitoring.Chhatbir Zoo field director Naresh Mahajan said, “The veterinary wing and zoo management are observing the tigress and the cubs, who were born on May 8. While some privacy has been given to Diya, no one is allowed to go near them except the zookeeper and veterinarian concerned. The cubs will remain under surveillance till they grow bigger.”This is the second time that Diya has given birth. In 2019, the tigress had delivered three cubs, one female and two males. However, the 18-month-old female cub died on May 9 this year. The cub had been behaving normally till she passed away and was taken for postmortem examination to Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University, Ludhiana, however, it was found to be a natural death.The cub was also tested for Covid-19, but the results came out negative. All other carnivores at Chhatbir Zoo have also been tested.Meanwhile, the zoo is closed for the public till May 31 to keep the animals safe from Covid. After the first virus wave in 2020, the zoo had been closed in March and was reopened in December last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/two-bengal-tiger-cubs-born-at-mohali-s-chhatbir-zoo-101621019641341.html
15-05-2021||Chandigarh||Local ID not needed to get hospitalised in Chandigarh||Complying with the Supreme Court’s order, the Chandigarh health department has ordered that no patient shall be denied hospitalisation or essential drugs in the UT over the lack of local residence or identity proof.Chandigarh sees an influx of patients from neighbouring states, including Punjab, Haryana and Himachal Pradesh, and with the overwhelming Covid-19 situation, a larger ingress, majorly for critical care services, is being witnessed.At one point, the UT administration had denied sharing the bed occupancy details of the hospitals with officials citing reasons of “patients rushing to the city for better medical services”. However, after directions of Punjab and Haryana high court, the administration started to put out the data.Last year, the hospitals under the UT administration had restricted normal childbirth services for women living outside the city jurisdiction as a measure to check the spread of Covid-19.UT administrator VP Singh Badnore had stated in a press conference in April that the majority of beds had been occupied by people from outside Chandigarh, posing a challenge for the administration to ramp up the medical facilities.Even UT adviser Manoj Parida, had last month appealed to Chandigarh residents not to “choke” the city’s health infrastructure by “inviting friends and relatives from outside”.In a May 12 order, the UT director of health services ordered that no patient shall be denied hospitalisation or essential drugs in the Chandigarh in absence of local residence or identity proof.Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) has asked all department heads to comply with the Supreme Court directions.The apex court had earlier ordered that the central government shall, within two weeks, formulate a national policy on admissions to hospitals which shall be followed by all state governments and till then, no patient shall be denied hospitalisation or essential drugs in any state or UT for lack of local residential proof of that state/UT or even in the absence of any identity proof.UT health officials, requesting anonymity, said though there were no strict instructions on denying treatment to patients from outside, the verbal directions would discourage admissions and that beds should be reserved for local residents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/local-id-not-needed-to-get-hospitalised-in-chandigarh-101621019592625.html
15-05-2021||Chandigarh||929 get jabbed in Chandigarh on Day 1 of drive for 18-44 age group||As the Chandigarh health authorities kicked off the inoculation drive for the 18-44 age group on Friday, around 93% beneficiaries turned up to receive their first jab of Covid-19 vaccine.Out of the 1,000 people who booked the slots for the day, only 71 missed their shots.UT health services director Dr Amandeep Kang said, “The vaccination drive received a good response from residents and only pre-booked appointment-based vaccinations took place. There were 1,000 slots and 929 people got vaccinated, with 71 missing their appointments due to personal reasons. No on-the-spot walk-ins were allowed. Proper social distancing was ensured at the vaccination centres.”Seven centres that were designated as vaccination centres witnessed long queues with people lining up from 9am to receive the jab.Phulkit Arora, a 34-year-old IT professional who received the first dose at Government Multispeciality Hospital, Sector 16, said it was a seamless experience. “I was excited to take the shot and was the first one to get it here. The staff guided me well about the precautions I was supposed to take,” he said.Gap of 84 days must till second shot In line with the Centre’s guidelines, the mandatory gap between the first and second vaccine doses has been extended to 84 days, said Dr Amandeep Kang. She added that the Co-Win will not accept bookings for the second shot before 84 days.As the administration threw open vaccination time slots for the 18-44 age group on Thursday afternoon, it took only an hour for all 7,000 slots till May 22 to get booked.There is no facility for walk-in registration, and the beneficiaries will have to book the slot and obtain the time and place of vaccine through the Co-WIN portal.Private hospitals are to get the vaccines directly from manufacturers. For example, the Serum Institute of India has allocated 12,000 doses of Covishield to Chaitanya Hospital in Sector 44 for May.They may also start the vaccination drive on payment basis immediately after the actual receipt of vaccines. They are already registered on the Co-WIN portal and will be able to offer the slots after they receive the doses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/929-get-jabbed-in-chandigarh-on-day-1-of-drive-for-18-44-age-group-101621019521471.html
15-05-2021||Chandigarh||Vijay Zade is the new Chandigarh finance secretary||Vijay Namdeorao Zade, a 2002-batch Indian Administrative Services (IAS) officer of the Punjab cadre, will be the new finance secretary in the Chandigarh administration. He will have a three-year tenure.The central government has taken nearly a year to approve his appointment. The tenure of the last incumbent, Ajoy Kumar Sinha, had ended on August 31 last year. Ahead of that, the Punjab government had forwarded a panel of three names to the Chandigarh administration. The latter sent it to the Union home ministry in June last year, with Zade as the first choice. The other two officers were Kumar Rahul (2000 batch) and Arun Sekhri (2014 batch). The post is reserved for a Punjab-cadre IAS officer, and is the third important in the UT administration, after the adviser and home secretary. In addition to the finance department, some other important departments under the officer are engineering, urban planning and estate.Meanwhile, the administration is still awaiting the Centre’s decision on the extension requested for the home secretary and municipal commissioner, confirmed UT adviser Manoj Parida. The three-year deputation of Arun Kumar Gupta, a Haryana-cadre IAS officer of 1992 batch, and MC chief KK Yadav, a Punjab-cadre IAS officer of 2003 batch, ends this month. The administration had requested a three-month extension to their term in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/vijay-zade-is-the-new-chandigarh-finance-secretary-101621019460515.html
15-05-2021||Chandigarh||Now, get O2 cylinders in Chandigarh through e-permit||The UT administration on Friday said that Covid-19 patients who have been prescribed oxygen support at home will now be able to get oxygen cylinders through online e-permit.Yashpal Garg, the nodal officer for oxygen supplies in UT, said an application for e-permit can be submitted on the Chandigarh administration’s website http://chandigarh.gov.in/health_covid19.html from 11am on May 15. He said a doctor’s prescription and any address proof of Chandigarh is to be uploaded at the time of submitting the application. “Once the application is approved, it will be valid for two days and the applicant will receive an intimation. Though e-permit may be downloaded from the website, a hard copy is not required and the cylinder (maximum two) may be obtained even on the basis of the approved application number,” he said, and added that cylinders would be provided by M/s Super Agencies, 40-MW Industrial Area-I, Chandigarh. The firm can be contacted through phone at 9888035000 or email at superchandigarh@gmail.com.The consumer will have to pay ₹295 plus 12% GST for a ‘D’ type cylinder and ₹175 plus 12% GST for each ‘A & B’ type cylinder. For a new cylinder, the consumer has to deposit a security amount of ₹25,000, which would be refunded after deduction of rent at ₹100 per day.When asked why the security amount was so high, Garg said the private vendor was of the view that if the security amount was lower, no one would return the cylinder and it could be sold illegally in the market at higher prices.“We are just starting this facility, we will definitely rationalise it. I don’t want to delay the process. It may give relief to at least some persons. For rest of the patients, we will find out some solution. We need to take all, including the private vendor,along,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/now-get-o2-cylinders-in-chandigarh-through-epermit-101621018500559.html
15-05-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC paves the way for promotion of govt employees with disabilities||The Bombay high court (HC) last week relaxed its earlier status quo order and allowed the state government to promote the employees due to retire by June 30, on a condition that the government will also promote employees with benchmark disabilities on Group A and Group B promotional posts identified for them.The division bench of justice Amjad Sayed and justice Madhav Jamdar further directed that the affidavit shall set out what exercise has been carried out and proposed to be carried out, including the data and statistics that have been collated so far to identify the posts and the outer limit within which the exercise would be completed.The court was hearing a bunch of petitions filed through advocates Vinod Sangvikar, Sugandh Deshmukh and Mahendra Shingade, by persons with disabilities complaining about denial of reservation-in-promotion to Group-A and Group-B posts.Acting on their petitions, HC has on November 3, 2020, stayed the process for finalising promotions to Group-A and Group-B posts in some departments after noticing that the right to reservation in promotion of the physically challenged persons was recognised by the Supreme Court, and a proposal for identifying the posts and working out modalities for providing such reservation was already placed before the state cabinet for approval.HC had thereafter also refused to vacate the stay on January 15 this year by observing that the promotion process cannot be allowed without securing the rights of the petitioners - employees with benchmark disabilities - the general administration department had renewed the plea claiming that the Apex court had subsequently thought it fit to place the matter of reservation-in-promotion for persons with benchmark disabilities for review before a larger bench.During the course of hearing on the petitions on May 7, counsel for the petitioners pointed out that some departments in the government had completed the process of identifying posts to be filled by promotion to the employees with disabilities. The lawyers pointed out that in some cases promotion orders were also issued and what remained to be done was to issue posting orders.Against this backdrop, HC allowed the state government to promote general category employees due to retire by June 30, 2021, but on the condition that the employees with disabilities are also issued posting orders due to them.The bench has added that it expects that the process to identify promotional posts for employees with benchmark disabilities in all departments is completed by June 22, when the petitions will come up for further hearing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-paves-the-way-for-promotion-of-govt-employees-with-disabilities-101621018140005.html
15-05-2021||Mumbai||SSC cancellation: Unfair to have single formula for marking, say schools, students||As the state education department is yet to announce the marking criteria for Class 10 (SSC board) students in the state, there is a concern among students and teachers that a single criterion for marking might not do justice to all students as there is no uniformity in the format for internal assessments across schools.In a recent survey conducted by the Maharashtra State Council of Educational Research and Training (MSCERT), it was found that schools have assessed students between Class 8 and 10 in many different ways- using Whatsapp based assessments, through online sessions and tests, offline exams and workbooks and worksheets. Teachers said that in the absence of uniform evaluation criteria, it will be difficult to mark students on a single formula.For instance, many schools which reopened for offline classes in November 2020 and conducted sessions until April 2021 have evaluated students based on offline exams, conducted in the school and strictly supervised by teachers. The principal of a school in Chandrapur said, “In our region schools had reopened and we conducted offline exams. Our students sincerely wrote these papers and there was vigilance to see that there is malpractice. But in places where students gave tests online, there was no way to check malpractices. How can one evaluate these two sets of students on the same criteria?”With the rising Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra and the resultant lockdown, the state government decided to cancel Class 10 SSC exams in the state that was earlier scheduled to be held in June. The department is yet to announce the formula for assessments. Students said that they are getting more worried by the day. “There is no decision almost a month after the announcement of the cancellation of exams. We cannot even estimate how much and how well we will score because we do not know what marks will be calculated, to begin with,” said Shweta Wagh, a Malad-based student.Officials from the education department said a decision in this respect will be announced soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ssc-cancellation-unfair-to-have-single-formula-for-marking-say-schools-students-101621018080570.html
15-05-2021||Mumbai||Contempt notices to Cidco, Raigad collector as NGT order on Panje not implemented||A civil society group, which works to protect Maharashtra’s mangroves and coastal wetlands, has served contempt of court notices to Cidco and the Raigad district collector for non-compliance of a month-old order by the National Green Tribunal (NGT) that ordered that all tidal water inlets to Cidco’s 289-hectare (ha) property in Uran be opened immediately to ensure flow of sea water to Panje coastal wetland and its mangrove forests.NGT’s western regional bench had, on April 15, directed Cidco and the Raigad district collector to ensure that chokepoints at five tidal inlets are removed, upholding previous orders from the state environment department. Environmentalists have repeatedly emphasised in statements to the press over the past month that this order has not been implemented. Nandakumar Pawar, head of NGO Shri Ekvira Aai Pratishtan, had moved NGT for urgent interim relief in April as the state government’s earlier orders to clear the inlets had been ignored.“You are hereby called upon to ensure that the order dated April 15, 2021 passed by the National Green Tribunal and the directions contained therein are complied with forthwith and the blockages to the 5 culverts at Panje are immediately removed, failing which my client will consider himself at liberty to file appropriate proceedings including those for contempt against you,” stated the notice, which was served by Shri Ekvira Aai Pratishthan’s legal counsel Meenaz Kalia.An official with Cidco, who did not wish to be identified, said, “The NGT order does not apply to us directly. The particular culverts are on Navi Mumbai SEZ land, which has been leased out to a private company in 2019. They need to implement the order, not Cidco.” Nidhi Chaudhury, Raigad district collector, did not respond to a request for comment.Environmentalists, however, took issue with this claim. “NMSEZ is only leasing land from Cidco. Besides, Cidco is also a partner in the NMSEZ, and the ownership of the land belongs with them. They are still the rightful custodians,” said BN Kumar, director of NatConnect Foundation who has been campaigning for Panje to be declared as a wetland and a bird sanctuary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/contempt-notices-to-cidco-raigad-collector-as-ngt-order-on-panje-not-implemented-101621018080017.html
15-05-2021||Mumbai||Uran mangroves being buried during lockdown, allege activists||Vast stretches of mangroves are being destroyed at three major locations in Raigad’s Uran taluka by various project proponents under cover of lockdown, environmentalists alleged in a complaint to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and environment minister Aaditya Thackeray this week.They said such work was in violation of earlier orders by the Bombay high court (HC), which bar construction in mangrove areas, as well as the Coastal Regulatory Zone (CRZ) notification. “The pace at which whole swathes of mangrove forests are being buried is shocking, particularly at Cidco’s Holding Pond 2 area of Dronagiri node in Uran, which has been placed under CRZ-1 by the Maharashtra Coastal Zone Management Authority (MCZMA),” said BN Kumar, director of NatConnect Foundation.Low-lying intertidal regions in the area have been levelled with non-oceanic mud, and in some cases construction of pakka structures has also begun, leading to recent unseasonal floods in Uran. Holding Pond 2 is a contiguous 237-hectare running waterbody and even in the nomenclature of local planner Cidco, the area is supposed to be a flood control mechanism. “But unfortunately, the holding pond itself is being shrunk with the burial of lush green mangroves,” said Nandakumar Pawar, head of NGO Shri Ekvira Aai Prartishtan.Members of Paaramparik Machhimar Bachao Kruti Samiti, whose artisanal fishing livelihood is threatened by the resulting ecological damage, also alleged the frequency of landfilling activities has visibility increased during lockdown, and first picked up pace a little less than a year ago. “The scale of mangrove loss is plain to see. But most of the work happens at night, when trucks come and blatantly dump debris and mud directly over the water bodies,” said Deepak Koli, a member of the group.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/uran-mangroves-being-buried-during-lockdown-allege-activists-101621018021050.html
15-05-2021||Mumbai||Ventilators procured under PM Cares were of inferior quality: Maharashtra Congress||Congress on Friday alleged that the ventilators procured by the Central government under PM Cares Fund were of inferior quality and could not be installed in hospitals, even when they were badly needed to treat Covid-19 patients. Ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW), however, refuted the allegations saying they were ‘baseless and incorrect’ and without the support of full information.Maharashtra Congress’s general secretary and spokesperson Sachin Sawant said that about 100 ventilators supplied by the Centre to government hospitals in Nashik and Aurangabad could not be installed because of flaws in them. Citing a probe committee appointed by the Government Medical College in Aurangabad, Sawant said that the ventilators could not be repaired even by the technicians appointed by the manufacturing company. He said 60 ventilators provided to a hospital in Nashik were lying idle because the parts required for their installation were not provided.“It is a big scam of procurement from the money received in donations to PMCares Fund. The procurement needs to be investigated by a state-level committee. Modi government forced corporate houses in the country to donate to this fund, but information about the donations was kept under the wrap. The fund was kept out of the purview of the Right To Information Act. The public need to know how and why such highly incompetent manufacturing company got the contract to supply ventilators,” Sawant said.In its clarification issued through Press Information Bureau, the MoHFW has said, “The ventilators in question are not funded under PM Cares fund. In Aurangabad Medical College, 150 ventilators were supplied by Jyoti CNC. Of them, 100 ventilators reached Aurangabad on April 19 and another 50 on April 23, followed by their installation as per the allocations received from the State authorities. Some of them were installed in private hospitals by state authorities. On getting complaints, the engineers appointed by manufacturers attended the calls by recalibrating some of them and replacing parts for few others. The ventilators were made functional and commissioned subsequently. Some of the complaints were for the improper mask fitting on patients.”The statement further stated that the team of service engineers is still in the hospital and as soon as a ventilator is fitted on a patient with NIV mode, they shall be in a position to demonstrate this to the hospital authorities there. At present the ventilators have been put on Invasive mode on the patient and functioning fine, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ventilators-procured-under-pm-cares-were-of-inferior-quality-maharashtra-congress-101621018019948.html
15-05-2021||Mumbai||Asking to deposit ₹22 lakh fraud amount not a valid bail condition: Bombay HC||The Bombay high court (HC) recently set aside the bail condition of depositing ₹22 lakh imposed on an accused in a fraud case by an additional sessions judge on the grounds that such an onerous condition for bail was not maintainable. As three other accused in the fraud case had already been granted bail, the HC granted bail to the accused on grounds of parity, albeit with conditions applicable in normal bails. A bench of justice Sarang Kotwal, while hearing the bail application of Mohammadali Saiyyed, was informed by advocate Dr Abhinav Chandrachud that the additional sessions judge, Malegaon had granted bail to the accused on August 21, 2020 and in the operative part of the order, his client was directed to deposit ₹22 lakh before the magistrate as a condition precedent for his release on bail. Dr Chandrachud submitted that his client had initially applied for bail with the judicial magistrate first class on the grounds that the charge sheet was not filed within the stipulated time, which was allowed by the magistrate. However, before Saiyyed could fulfil the bail conditions imposed by the magistrate of depositing ₹50,000 as personal bond and furnishing solvent sureties of like amount, the police filed a charge sheet within four days of the bail order. After this, Saiyyed approached the additional sessions judge. According to the prosecution, Saiyyed in connivance with three others had posed as officials of a financial firm based in Gujarat and collected ₹22 lakh from a developer from Manmad as commission for processing a loan of ₹5 crore. However, after the loan was not sanctioned, a case was lodged at the behest of the developer and the four were arrested. While the three others were granted bail by the HC, Saiyyed was the last as he was considered the mastermind of the fraud. Dr Chandrachud informed the HC that the condition precedent imposed by the additional sessions judge had been deprecated by the Supreme Court, and as his client could not arrange the amount, Saiyyed’s right to be released on bail was frustrated. In light of these submissions, he sought setting aside of the bail condition and urged the court to grant bail to Saiyyed. The application was opposed by the complainant’s advocate who informed the court Saiyyed had two passports and could abscond if released on bail. The additional public prosecutor for the state, while submitting that though the condition of depositing ₹22 lakh for release on bail was onerous, said that Saiyyed could not be released on bail on merits. After hearing the submissions, the bench agreed with Dr Chandrachud about the condition precedent and noted, “Obviously the condition is onerous and it is prejudging the issues between the parties without trial. This condition proceeds on the footing that the FIR is the complete truth without necessity of any further proof. This approach obviously is not permissible.” The bench then set aside the precedent condition and granted bail to Saiyyed on the grounds that he would appear before the concerned police station on the first Monday of every month and would be present during trial and disposed of the application.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/asking-to-deposit-22-lakh-fraud-amount-not-a-valid-bail-condition-bombay-hc-101621017961147.html
15-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra records 39,923 new Covid cases, state to focus on districts with maximum cases||As Maharashtra witnesses a decline in the number of Covid-19 cases, with 39,923 cases recorded on Friday, the state government is now focussing on districts where the virus continues to cause menace.According to the state government, 15 districts have recorded fewer cases while the surge continues in the remaining 21 districts.Various districts like Kolhapur, Nashik, Satara, Sangli, Buldhana and Yavatmal are still facing the surge of cases.According to Dr Subhash Salunke, Maharashtra government’s advisor for Covid-19 management, various proactive steps are being taken to contain this virus. “We have ramped up the testing facilities, the home quarantine patients are being strictly monitored and oxygen and medicines supply has been increased,” said Salunke.There were a total of 2,50,784 tests conducted on Friday, while the number of recoveries has been 53,249 people. The total number of deaths has now reached 79,552 with 695 deaths recorded on Friday. The total number of people infected with Covid-19 to date stands at 53,09,215.There are currently 519,254 active Covid-19 patients across the state, of which, Pune tops with 96,028 patients followed by Nagpur with 40,496 active patients.The death toll has now reached 78,552 with Mumbai leading with 14,102 deaths followed by Pune with 10,262 patients.According to Dr Ameet Mandot, director, Gut Clinic, it was imperative to adopt an aggressive strategy to rein in this virus. “The government needs to enforce strict adherence to Covid-19 protocols and any violations should be dealt with a heavy hand. In many of these districts, the health infrastructure is very poor and the need of this hour is to beef up the entire system. Covid-19 can be contained in Maharashtra not by a reduction in selected pockets but when the numbers across the state come down,” said Mandot.After Mumbai, drive-in vaccination has started in Nagpur at Global Mall which was inaugurated by Union minister Nitin Gadkari.Meanwhile, in Nashik, four people were arrested for selling Remdesivir in the black market at ₹27,000 per dose.In Kolhapur, two convicts undergoing their sentence for murder escaped from Covid-19 centre.In Buldhana, 13 doctors working in private Covid-19 hospital resigned en-masse protesting against the mental stress they were facing from the politicos. Similarly, the local administration in Buldhana has enlisted the help of drones to keep a watch on those roaming on the streets without any valid reason.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-records-39-923-new-covid-cases-state-to-focus-on-districts-with-maximum-cases-101621017960006.html
15-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra Congress chief seeks probe into alleged phone-tapping||Maharashtra Congress chief Nana Patole alleged that his phone was under interception in 2016-17 during the previous Devendra Fadnavis government and demanded an inquiry by the state government. He has also alleged that phones of many leaders from the Shiv Sena, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), and even Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) were tapped.“I have received information that my phone was under interception, and the permission for the same was sought by giving the reason of narcotic links associated with me. My phone was under surveillance under the name of Amjad Khan. The telephones of many other leaders from leading parties and that of IAS and IPS officers too were intercepted. The Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government should investigate into the illegal tapping and the motive behind it, as it is a serious violation of the fundamental right of privacy. It should also be brought to the fore about who gave permission for such tapping and who were associated with the act,” Patole said.The Congress leader said the tapping was done by naming the telephone numbers under fake accounts. He has demanded strict action against the people involved in it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-congress-chief-seeks-probe-into-alleged-phonetapping-101621017901276.html
15-05-2021||Mumbai||Covid-19: Maharashtra govt extends ₹50L relief scheme for families of deceased cops||The state government on Friday issued a fresh government resolution (GR), extending the scheme providing for solatium of ₹50 lakh to the kin of the government employees, including police personnel, who died due to Covid-19, while performing Covid-related duties.The scheme that had lapsed on December 31, 2020, has now been extended till June 30, 2021. The families of over 100 police personnel, who died of Covid since January 2021 will now get due compensation, a senior IPS officer said.HT had first published a report on May 4, highlighting how families of police personnel who died due to Covid this year were left in the lurch, as the scheme ended in December 2020.Very few families of deceased policemen could get compensation this year in the absence of a relief scheme. Their case was presented before the finance department and was marked as a ‘special case’ by the police department. However, dozens of claim files had remained unprocessed due to the non-renewal of the scheme. Sanjeev Singhal, additional director general of police (administration) said, “We welcome the government’s decision. The police department has been continuously following this matter with the government and requesting them that the funds be released so that the grieving families of deceased policemen could get much needed financial aid.”During the initial days of the pandemic, many police personnel pressed into Covid-related work had contracted the virus and were falling sick. The disease was spreading among the police force rapidly, and thus there was a sense of fear and panic among the men in khaki.The state government had in May 2020 announced the scheme extending financial help of ₹50 lakh to the families of deceased policemen and a government job to a family member. Mumbai Police went a step ahead and announced an additional ₹10 lakh fund for each family from the police welfare funds. Hundreds of families of cops who died last year got benefits and many family members even got jobs in the police force.So far all 446 police personnel have died due to Covid-19 in Maharashtra, including 128, who have lost lives this year.Kavita Mahale, 30, wife of late Sanjay Mahale, a constable posted with Nardana police station in Dhule, said that the compensation will help her start her life afresh. Her husband succumbed to the disease on March 25 and eight days later his father also passed away. Sanjay’s mother had already died six months ago due to a prolonged illness. Mahale is now left with her two kids. Gaurav Wani, an engineering student and son of head constable Sanjay Wani, who was posted with Kolshewadi police station in Kalyan, is equally perplexed. Three months have passed since his father’s death due to Covid, but the family hasn’t yet received any compensation from the state. The family now hopes that the claim file would be processed soon.Similar is the case of the family of head constable Ramesh Survase from Chunabhatti police station who died last month due to Covid. Survase’s brother Vishnu said the compensation money will help his brother’s wife take care of her two children aged 17 and 12 years.Covid care cell for cops The state police have started a 24x7 Covid care cell where any police personnel can contact and take any information related to Covid 19, bed availability, medicines availability, etc. The cell will also have information on medicines like Remdesivir, Tocilizumab, and oxygen concentrator, etc. They can also lodge any Covid0-related complaint on this helpline.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid19-maharashtra-govt-extends-50l-relief-scheme-for-families-of-deceased-cops-101621017899980.html
15-05-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai records 1,660 new Covid cases, tally now stands at 684,845||Mumbai on Friday reported 1,660 new Covid-19 cases, continuing its downward trend of cases reported per day since the past two weeks. Mumbai also reported 62 deaths, with a high fatality rate for the day, at 3.7%. The positivity rate is now 6.5%.The tally has now gone up to 684,845, and the toll to 14,102. There are 35,843 active Covid-19 cases in the city at present. Mumbai presently has 85 containment zones which are slums and chawls. In 13 of 24 administrative wards of Mumbai, a population of 455,000 are quarantined. There are 377 sealed buildings, with the most number of them in Andheri West, Malabar Hill and Bandra (West) area, quarantining a population of 319,000; and 6,767 sealed floors, the most number of which are in suburban wards of North Mumbai, corresponding to areas of Kandivli, Mulund, Malad, and Andheri, with a population of 983,000. During the second wave, trends have shown more cases are from residential buildings than slums, contrary to trends in the first half of last year. During this wave, some previous hotspots have zero containment zones, such as Worli or slum pockets of Bandra (East), or very few containment zones such as Dharavi, which has only one active containment zone at present. The most number of containment zones are in R/South ward, corresponding to Kandivli (West) - 20 - followed by Andheri (East) - 16. M/East ward corresponding to Govandi has seven containment zones. Presently, the civic body seals entire residential buildings (called micro containment zones), if five or more cases are reported in the building. A floor is sealed if a single Covid-19 case is found. Mumbai on Thursday conducted 25,205 Covid tests, resulting in Saturday’s cases. The positivity rate is now 6.5%, lowest in over one month. So far, Mumbai has conducted a total of 5,851279 tests with an average positivity rate of 11.09%. Positivity rate is the number of positive Covid-19 cases, as a per cent of total tests done. Mumbai’s doubling rate is now 199 days, and its average growth rate is 0.34%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-records-1-660-new-covid-cases-tally-now-stands-at-684845-101621017839988.html
15-05-2021||Mumbai||State may cross 20-mn vaccination mark this weekend||Maharashtra on Friday inoculated over 150,000 beneficiaries, inching towards becoming the first state in the country to administer 20 million doses by the weekend. The state is currently short of around 300,000 inoculations to achieve the landmark. Meanwhile, the second shot for people over 45 years of age is expected to get a boost this weekend, as Maharashtra is expecting a batch of vaccines from the Centre on Friday night or in the wee hours of Saturday, officials said. A day after the Union government said the second shot of Covishield should be taken between 12 and 16 weeks after the first jab, from the earlier six to eight weeks, the state anticipates easing of the rush. However, there is no clarity from the state on how many citizens will be eligible for the second dose once the new gap is implemented. As per the state government’s estimates, currently 1.6 million people are due for their second shot of Covishield and 400,000 for Covaxin. However, the Centre has not provided any stock of the Bharat Biotech-manufactured vaccine since Sunday, a senior health department official said. The civic body has decided to suspend vaccination on Saturday and Sunday. The health department officials said they will give preference to second dose in the drive. The state is planning to keep 80% of the vaccine doses received for second dose and 20% for first dose, an official said. The state has already decided to divert around 900,000 doses, including the doses it purchased for 18-44 years category, and utilise for the second doses of people over 45 years. From Monday, for three days in a week, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation has allowed walk-in for people over 60 years and differently abled at vaccination centres. “There is a discussion to bring down the proportion from 60:40 to 80:20 to finish the second doses. Even if the interval has been increased by the Centre, the department, through the state government, will continue to demand higher number of doses to cater to the demand,” said an official requesting anonymity. Over the past seven days, the state has administered 1,490,994 shots, of which 59.16% or 882,101 are second. The state has averaged 212,999 doses daily between May 8 and 14. On May 14, the state administered doses to 150,926, including 96,336 second shots, data from the Co-WIN portal showed. So far, the state had administered 19,700,398 shots since January 16, when the vaccination drive began in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/state-may-cross-20-mn-vaccination-mark-this-weekend-101621017781698.html
15-05-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai civic body plans mobile vaccination centres in city||To make the vaccination drive more aggressive, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) plans to start mobile vaccination centres in the city. According to BMC officials, once it procures additional vaccine doses from the international market, the mobile unit vehicles will visit housing societies and complexes where citizens will be able to come and get the vaccine shots. The city has been facing a shortage of vaccine due to which the civic body has suspended vaccination for the 18-44 category. Most of the available stock is being used to give second dose due to around 100,000 beneficiaries. The number of beneficiaries, however, will come down, once the state government directs the BMC to follow the interval gap of 12-16 weeks, from the current 8-12 weeks, for second dose of Covishield vaccine, as advised by the Centre. The BMC has planned a special walk-in drive for second dose of Covishield for around 100,000 citizens between May 17 and 19. This number may come down now, which would mean the civic body can use some of the stock for first dose. On Friday, 23,924 citizens were vaccinated in the city, of which 3,180 were between the age of 18 and 44, 12,323 in the 45-59 age group, 7,888 above the age of 60 years, 134 health care and 399 front line workers. Overall, so far, 2,841,349 citizens have been vaccinated in the city. Meanwhile, civic officials said looking at the current stockpile, the plan to have mobile vaccination centres will not materialise in the next one month. Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner, said, “We plan to aggressively vaccinate citizens once we get sufficient vaccine doses. By sufficient doses, I mean two million to three million doses, after which we plan to start mobile vaccination centres. This will be possible after we procure bulk vaccine doses from the international bid that we floated.” Earlier this week, the BMC floated a global expression of interest, inviting international vaccine manufacturers to deliver around 10 million vaccine doses to the city. However, the BMC has restricted the entry of China. Kakani added, “We are thinking that rather than going door-to-door, going to societies or complexes will be much faster and everyone will be comfortable this way. We will aim for locations where we can cover maximum population. This will be apart from the permission that the BMC is giving to housing societies and corporates to tie up with private hospitals for vaccination.” According to the BMC, the required infrastructure will be set up within days after the procurement of bulk doses. A BMC official from the transport department said, “When we say mobile vaccination centres, we just need a simple ambulance to vaccinate one person at a time. The observation will be done outside the mobile vaccination centre. We can use the existing 550 Covid ambulances that will be used for arranging the cold storage. The modalities will be worked out in the coming days. Additional vehicles can be procured, if required.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-civic-body-plans-mobile-vaccination-centres-in-city-101621017781093.html
15-05-2021||Other||Himalaya Bridge at CSMT likely to be ready by mid-2023: Mumbai civic body||If everything goes according to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) plan, the Himalaya Bridge near Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT) will be ready for pedestrians by mid-2023, civic officials said. The BMC’s standing committee on Friday finalised the contractor for the construction of the bridge that had collapsed in 2019 killing seven. The contractor has been given a period of 15 months – excluding the monsoon period – for the construction, at a cost of around ₹6.5 crore. Earlier, the plan was to have the bridge constructed by the end of 2022, but the tendering took time owing to the second Covid-19 wave. The standing committee approved the construction almost five months after bids for the purpose were floated. BMC has proposed the Himalaya Bridge’s length to be 33m and width to be 4.4m. The construction is expected to be done using stainless steel that will be supported by pier. As per the draft design prepared by BMC, there will be three entry and exit points for the bridge.Congress corporator Javed Juneja, who is a member of the standing committee, said, “I had suggested that the BMC should have drawn plans in a way that there was an entry and exit from either side of the FOB (foot overbridge) considering that the current design leads a person directly into the railway station premises and the bridge will not be useful for crossing roads. But BMC said the heritage committee would have a problem with it.”The Himalaya Bridge was constructed by BMC in 1988 and was mainly used by rail commuters. Prior to its collapse, the civic body had carried out the bridge’s beautification – including colouring and replacement of tiles with granite – in 2016. BMC had also appointed a private consultant for a structural audit of the bridge in 2017-18. The audit report declared that the bridge needed minor repairs. However, the structure collapsed on March 14, 2019, and BMC’s engineering department was blamed for the mishap, and a chief engineer was jailed. Following this, BMC ordered the reaudit of hundreds of bridges in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/himalaya-bridge-at-csmt-likely-to-be-ready-by-mid-2023-mumbai-civic-body-101621017779913.html
15-05-2021||Chandigarh||Model gaushala to come up on GADVASU campus in Ludhiana||The Punjab government has sanctioned a project to set up a model gaushala at the Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (GADVASU) campus. The project will be carried out a cost of ₹1.7 crore.Inderjeet Singh, vice-chancellor of the university, said that there are nearly 1.6 lakh stray cattle in Punjab and 50.22 lakh across the country.“Stray cattle is one of the major reasons for road accidents and damage to crops and forest plantations. Some people let loose the cows after their productive life is over. Moreover, stray animals are usually malnourished and wounded, and thus suffer themselves,” said Singh.SPS Ghuman, dean, college of veterinary sciences, said that the aim of this gaushala will be to manage the stray cattle on a self-reliant basis on scientific lines, with available inexpensive techniques involving low-cost comfortable housing, feeding and healthcare facilities. JPS Gill, director research, GADVASU, said that demonstrating low-cost management and feeding systems of stray animal management will help the dairy farming industry of the state and society at large.The team comprising of RS Grewal, director, livestock farms; ST Singh, Puneet Malhotra and Ravi Kant will initiate the work on this project immediately. The model gaushala will be a demonstration unit, depicting scientific cattle management with economic rearing and zero-waste production, that can be replicated at gram panchayat / taluka levels.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/model-gaushala-to-come-up-on-gadvasu-campus-in-ludhiana-101621017542441.html
15-05-2021||Chandigarh||Two new 110-bed Covid facilities made operational in Ludhiana||Two Covid care facilities in Hambran Road and Mundian, each with a capacity of 110 level-1 and level-2 beds, were inaugurated on Friday. The facilities were established with support from the Radha Soami Satsang Beas and inaugurated by Ludhiana MP Ravneet Singh Bittu, MLA Sanjay Talwar, councillor Mamta Ashu and deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma.Speaking to mediapersons at the Covid care centre on Hambran Road, Bittu said that each facility has 110 beds (55 each for men and women). He thanked the Radha Soami Satsang Beas for supporting the Punjab government and district administration in the fight against Covid. He said that these facilities will be beneficial in augmenting the health infrastructure in Ludhiana.At the centre adjoining Fortis Hospital, Mundian, MLA Sanjay Talwar said that these centres have been set up to combat the second Covid wave. He said that they have oxygen beds for level-I and level-II patients. Sharma said that there is no shortage of oxygen or beds with oxygen supply in the district. He urged the residents to get themselves tested in case they have any flu-like or Covid symptoms. He also thanked the Ludhiana industry for contributing 835 cylinders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/two-new-110-bed-covid-facilities-made-operational-in-ludhiana-101621017483500.html
15-05-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana sees slight dip in Covid deaths, cases||The number of Covid-19 deaths in the district climbed to 1,683 on Friday with 19 people succumbing to the virus.However, it was after a gap of five days that the daily deaths dropped below 20. Also, there was a 3% drop in daily cases, as 1,320 people tested positive against 1,355 on Thursday.Ludhiana had last reported 19 deaths on May 8, since when the number had been rapidly climbing, even hitting the all-time high of 30 twice, on May 10 and 11. The youngest among Friday’s casualties, that included 10 men and nine women, was a 35-year-old man from Gahour. The oldest to die were two septuagenarians, both aged 75 and residents of Sunder Nagar and Basant Avenue.Those aged between 50 and 70 continued to be the worst affected, as 12 of the 19 deceased were in this age group, while the remaining four were in their 40s.The latest cases pushed the active cases to 73,741, of which 12,586 patients are still under treatment. As many as 57 patients are on ventilator support at various health facilities. The district has a recovery rate of 80.6% with 59,453 patients successfully beating the virus, though the proportion is behind the national average of 83.5%.In just 14 days of May, the district has logged 19,155 Covid cases, compared to 20,176 through April, while the deaths, at 307, have already crossed April’s toll of 231.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-sees-slight-dip-in-covid-deaths-cases-101621017361886.html
15-05-2021||Chandigarh||Shots fired, cars vandalised in scuffle between two groups at Ludhiana||Shots were fired and three cars were vandalised during a fight between two groups of men near DAV Public School in Bhai Randhir Singh Nagar on Thursday night. Onlookers informed the police, who reached the spot and identified the men of one group as Harmanjot Singh of Rishi Nagar, Raman Bhatia of Haibowal, Eklavya Joshi, Nalin Saluja and Kapish of Raman Enclave, Varun Verma of Rishi Nagar and Sukhwinder Singh of Kochla, Sangrur, while Ravneet Singh of Police Colony and Kanu Adiya and their eight unidentified accomplices were in the other group.ASI Santokh Singh, who is investigating the case, said after they received information about a scuffle near DAV School, they reached the spot and found some men injured, with sticks and bats lying around and three cars of local residents vandalised. On questioning them, Harmanjot claimed that Ravneet had called them to the spot following an argument earlier in the evening. When he reached there with his friends, Ravneet and his accomplices attacked them. Kanu also opened fire in the air, however they escaped unhurt.The ASI said the men left the spot for medical examination, saying they will reach the police station in the morning for their statement, but no one turned up on Friday. As such, a case under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code had been registered against all accused.He added that as per their verification, two of the men were sons of an assistant sub-inspector and a retired superintendent of police.Inspector Paramdeep Singh, station house officer (SHO), Sarabha Nagar police station, said the accused had been booked for hooliganism and vandalism, and will be arrested soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/shots-fired-cars-vandalised-in-scuffle-between-two-groups-at-ludhiana-101621017301847.html
15-05-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Factory owner kills 48-year-old wife to usurp her properties||Son, daughter and daughter-in-law also booked for aiding the accused in strangling his wife to death at their Atam Nagar houseEyeing her properties, a factory owner, along with his son, daughter and daughter-in-law, allegedly strangled his wife to death at their Atam Nagar house in Model Town on Friday morning. According to police, the victim, Aarti Arora, 48, was the whole-time director of the family’s factory, Arora Alloys, located in Phase 7, Focal Point.Through her career she had amassed considerable real estate holdings, which her husband, Harmesh Arora, who is the factory’s managing director, had been trying to usurp. Apart from this, he had also been accusing her of infidelity.Harmesh, 50, has been arrested, while his son Lovish Arora, 26, daughter Ritika Arora, 20, and daughter-in-law Lovisha Arora are absconding. Another son of the victim is settled abroad. Passes off murder as suicideAccording to police, after killing Aarti, to avoid being caught, Harmesh took the body to a private hospital in Model Town, claiming she had hanged herself. Meanwhile, neighbours alerted Aarti’s brother Rajan Kundra, who lives in Karnail Singh Nagar. When Kundra rushed to the hospital, he was aghast to find his sister dead and immediately alerted the police.Ligature marks present on neck: Cops“Kundra informed the police around 9.30am, following which a team reached the victim’s house and the hospital. There were ligature marks on her neck, which indicated that she was strangled using a wire, while strewn around articles inside the house showed she had put up a fight,” said inspector Inderjit Singh, station house officer (SHO), Model Town police station.In his statement to the police, Kundra alleged that his brother-in-law had been harassing his sister to grab the properties she had raised through her personal efforts. In his greed, he had also turned his son, daughter and daughter-in-law against Aarti. The SHO said following the complaint by the victim’s brother, they had booked the four accused under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code. “The body has been sent for autopsy, and things will get clearer once the other accused are nabbed,” he added.Apart from managing his alloy business, Harmesh is also the president of the management committee of Chintapurni Mandir and trustee of Shri Govind Gaudham, which handles one of the largest cow shelters in Ludhiana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-factory-owner-kills-48-year-old-wife-to-usurp-her-properties-101621017300745.html
15-05-2021||Delhi||PIL on hoarding: Delhi Police question Youth Cong chief BV Srinivas||The Delhi Police’s crime branch visited the office of the Indian Youth Congress (IYC) on Friday and questioned its president, BV Srinivas, over the source of oxygen cylinders and other life-saving drugs with which he was helping Covid-19 patients and their families, at a time when the Capital is struggling with a shortage of both resources and essential drugs amid the fourth wave of Covid-19.The police’s action invited the criticism from the Congress, although Delhi Police has questioned politicians across the spectrum delivering such aid on the direction of the Delhi High Court.Videos of the police team inside the IYC headquarters made the rounds on social media, after which many people, including senior Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, tweeted with the trending hashtag #IstandwithIYC.Over the past few weeks, Srinivas has emerged as the humanitarian face of the crisis that gripped many parts of India and especially the national capital, delivering oxygen cylinders and concentrators, and finding hospital beds for those that needed them.Government officials aware of the matter said Srinivas was questioned as part of their ongoing probe into the alleged black marketing and hoarding of medical supplies. A pubic interest litigation was filed in the Delhi high court alleging that some politicians were hoarding and distributing essential medicines required in the treatment of Covid-19.The crime branch, in the last five days, has questioned people from other political parties too. Police have recorded statements of Aam Aadmi Party MLA Dilip Pandey, BJP Delhi spokesperson Harish Khurana, former Congress MLA Mukesh Sharma, among others.Khurana confirmed that he too was contacted by the crime branch. “The police investigation is based on court’s direction. They are asking all those, including people from BJP, who provided help to others. It is wrong to say that this is being done on the directions of the Centre,” he said.Srinivas said: “Somebody filed a PIL asking how we were getting Covid-19 medicines while there is a shortage. The police team came to find the source of our supply. They said they have to submit a reply to the high court. They took the statement of people from other parties too. We have done nothing wrong. We will continue to help people.”Commenting on Srinivas’ questioning by the Delhi police, Randeep Singh Surjewala, general secretary of the Congress, tweeted, “People of this country must decide if helping people with oxygen or providing medicines… is a crime. Is it a crime to help people in getting beds at the hospital? Maybe this is a crime, so Delhi police is questioning our youth Congress president BV Srinivas.”Though Delhi police did not issue any statement on Friday spokesperson, Chinmoy Biswal, said they had already issued a clarification on Wednesday. “On a writ petition filed by a person identified as Dr Deepak Singh about politicians involved in illegal distribution of Covid-19 medicines etc, the honourable high court of Delhi has directed the Delhi Police to conduct an enquiry. In compliance to the directions of the high court, an enquiry is being conducted and we are questioning several people.”Singh did not respond to calls and messages seeking comment.When contacted, senior AAP leader Dilip Pandey said, “People like us have some form of political backing, but think about those hundreds and thousands of individuals who are selflessly helping others. In the coming days, if we see a third wave, fewer people will come out to help fearing they will be questioned by the police. As for people like us, we will continue to help people in whatever way we can.”Pandey added the timing and manner in which these investigations are being carried out is wrong.“They must do it in a considerate way. It should not be that they waste all their time going after innocent people while the actual culprits roam free,” he said.BJP MP from East Delhi Gautam Gambhir put out a tweet on Friday saying that the opposition should not indulge in needless politicization of due process. “Delhi Police has asked for a reply from us & we’ve provided all details. I will keep serving Delhi & its people to the best of my abilities always!” he tweeted. Gambhir did not respond to requests for comment.(With inputs from Umar Sofi)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/pil-on-hoarding-delhi-police-question-youth-cong-chief-bv-srinivas-101621017241213.html
15-05-2021||Delhi||Low-quality health gear has flooded city markets: Delhi police||The skyrocketing demand for masks, PPE kits, hand sanitisers and gloves, fuelled by the surge in Covid-19 cases during the second wave of the pandemic, has led to the mushrooming of unauthorised manufacturing units that are producing these essentials using substandard material, the Delhi Police’s intelligence unit has said in its report submitted to the police brass.According to the report, these unauthorised units are being run out of local markets and industrial areas around Delhi-NCR. In most units, apart from the quality of materials used in the production, cleanliness and health hygiene are grossly compromised, officers privy to the intelligence report has said.Also, the units are defying labour regulations by employing children, and unskilled and semi-skilled women for low wages and then putting them to work in unhygienic conditions, posing a threat to their health, the officers said.Parallel to the action continuing against people involved in cheating, hoarding and black-marketing of medicines, injections and medical equipment used for treating Covid patients, the Delhi Police has now planned a crackdown on manufacturing units involved in producing spurious sanitisers and substandard PPE kits, masks and gloves, a senior police officer said, not wishing to be named.The police have also urged the public to dial the Covid helpline -- 011-23469900 -- and share information if they come across adulterated sanitisers or low-grade medical gear, Delhi Police spokesperson Chinmoy Biswal said.“We have been receiving information that people have started selling/supplying low-quality masks, PPE Kits, gloves and sanitisers. The Delhi Police has zero tolerance to people who, by resorting to such malpractices, are risking the lives of innocent persons. If anyone has any information about such people, (s)he should inform us on our helpline,” said Biswal.Apart from the 15 police districts and other units, the city police has also written to the civic agencies, Delhi government’s health, drugs control, labour, and home departments for taking steps to counter such spurious trade.A senior police officer, in the know of the report, said on condition of anonymity, “Employing children in these units is not only illegal but also dangerous -- they are exposed to the infection as there is no social distancing protocols in these units. Adulterated sanitisers can cause skin ailments in people and also lead to fire incidents, as sanitisers are inflammable by composition. In local production units, any and every kind of fabric is being used to make face masks and PPE kits. The production in these units is totally unregulated.”Health and medical experts also believe that use of substandard sanitisers, PPE kits, masks, gloves and other medical gear may put the lives of people at risk, especially doctors and medical personnel looking after Covid patients.“Masks, PPE kits, gloves, and sanitisers are life-saving gear that are used by a person to avoid contracting the infection. Sale and use of substandard items means that we are playing with the lives of people. It’s a heinous crime and the police as well as other agencies should take strict action against people involved in such illegal activities. People must make it a point to buy products that are genuine and have all necessary standard compliance marks and labels,” said Dr Jugal Kishore, head of the department, community medicine at Safdarjung Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-police-plan-crackdown-on-units-manufacturing-low-quality-medical-gear-sanitisers-101621017179953.html
15-05-2021||Delhi||Decongestion drive at Tihar excludes those caught for Covid-related crimes||At least 100 Tihar jail prisoners, arrested for non-heinous crimes like hoarding or black marketing of Covid-19 medical supplies, or cheating during the pandemic, have been denied interim bail by the Supreme Court-appointed High Powered Committee (HPC) in charge of decongesting the prison complex, according to officers privy to the development.The HPC excluded them from the list of prisoners eligible for interim bail after Delhi police wrote to the committee, pointing out that such people took advantage of the chaos during the pandemic “to make wrong and undue profits by black marketing and selling drugs”.Agreeing with the police’s contention, the HPC -- consisting members of the high court, state government, prison department and the Delhi police -- added such prisoners to the list of those not eligible for interim bail, whenever the government takes steps to decongest the jail complex. While their cases will be seen at par with those arrested for terror crimes, who are also excluded from interim-bail, they can apply for regular bail in courts as part of their ongoing trial.On Thursday, the prison department, on the directions of the HPC, released at least 700 prisoners from the first batch of 1,133, who have been granted interim bail to decongest the prison complex. Nearly 19,500 prisoners were lodged at Tihar jail, against a sanctioned capacity of 10,026. The released prisoners will have to surrender after 90 days.Senior prison officers said that in the last 10 days, jail superintendents had received requests from at least four persons arrested for black marketing and hoarding Covid-19 medical supplies, requesting to be considered for release.“It is good that such category of prisoners have been excluded. This will send a message to all people outside who are misusing people’s helpless in this pandemic. The crimes of hoarding medicines or selling it at exorbitant rates at a time like this is a crime on humanity,”said a senior police, officer, who wished not to be named.In the last few weeks, police have arrested 102 people for various crimes, including hoarding Covid-19 supplies such as medicines, oxygen cylinders, and oxygen concentrators, and cheating people after promising to provide them medicines. At least five nurses have been arrested for stealing medicines such as remdesivir. Five ambulance drivers were arrested for overcharging while four others were also arrested for duping relatives of Covid-19 patients by passing off fire extinguishers as oxygen cylindersWOMEN AND CHILDREN RELEASEDAt least seven pregnant women undertrial prisoners along with 25 other women and their children -- about 26 of them, aged below 6 -- were also released from the women’s jail at Tihar on Thursday and Friday. Prison officers said the decision to release the women and children came in the backdrop of rising cases of Covid-19 inside women’s jail.HT had on May 5 reported how jail number 6 (women’s jail) had the most number of cases despite housing the least number of prisoners -- about 444 prisoners compared to 1,500-2,000 in other jails. The spread of the infection inside the women’s jail had prompted jail officers to start a Covid ward inside the women’s jail. Of the six prisoners, who have died of the infection, a women’s jail inmate, Kahkashan (41), succumbed to the disease on Aprl 29 at GTB hospital.Meanwhile, prison authorities are still awaiting the state government’s orders for the release of 1,000 convicts, who are eligible for release under “emergency parole”. These prisoners had been released on “emergency parole” last year at the start of the pandemic and surrendered in February 2021, when Covid cases in Delhi were at its lowest.The HPC has laid down categories for undertrial prisoners -- such as those in civil imprisonment,senior citizens facing trial for offences with a maximum punishment of 10 years in jail, those suffering serious illnesses and are facing trial for offences with punishment ranging from 10 years to life, first time offenders arrested for none heinous crimes where punishment, if convicted, is less than seven years. -- to be eligible for grant of 90 days interim bail on furnishing a personal bond.<Lama trying for on-record quote>||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/decongestion-drive-at-tihar-excludes-those-caught-for-covid-related-crimes-101621017120646.html
15-05-2021||Delhi||Covid-19: Unclaimed ashes pile up at crematoriums||Twenty-two-year-old Rahul straps on his mask, pulls up his gloves, and gets ready with a scoop every evening to collect the remains of Covid-19 dead bodies that have turned to ashes at the Nigambodh Ghat crematorium, one of the largest funeral facilities in the city. He bags the ashes, and stores them in lockers on the cremation ground premises, waiting for families to come and collect the remains.While the remains from each of the pyres are stored inside the facility’s lockers, there are some bags where the ashes and remains from different bodies are mixed together and stored separately.Pointing at these abandoned bags kept on the side of the lockers, Rahul, who goes by one name said, “These are the ashes of people whose families have not come forward to collect them. Maybe they fear infection. We wait for a month, and then move the ashes into these sacks, because there isn’t enough space in the lockers considering the high number of deaths we are seeing these days because of Covid-19.”Caretakers and volunteers at crematoriums across the Capital say that, since the second national wave of Covid-19 cases hit the city, several families of the infected dead chose to not come forward to collect their remains. They say that possible reasons could be fear of contracting the disease, or that the family members are already infected.Suman Gupta, general secretary of the Nigambodh Ghat Sanchalan Samiti (coordination committee), the organisation that manages the crematorium for the North Delhi Municipal Corporation, said if the families of the dead do not come to collect the remains for one or two months, or if they remain unreachable, the ashes are kept aside. The coordination committee plans to take the ashes to Haridwar and immerse them on the behalf of the families.Also Read | At Delhi crematoriums, corpses wait in 20-hour queues to burn“Our organisation has been doing this even before Covid-19 hit the country, for poor people who could not afford to conduct the last rites of their dead family members. But now, of course, the volume of the abandoned remains that we are getting is much higher. We believe that unless the last rites of the dead are not conducted, the soul doesn’t depart,” said Gupta.In some cases, he said, the all immediate family members are either admitted to hospitals or are in home isolation, and are unable to perform the last rites of their dead relatives.Delhi government data shows that over the last seven days, the city has recorded a total of 2,168 Covid deaths, of which 289 were recorded on Friday.Surendra Rana, a resident of west Delhi’s Janakpuri, lost his brother to Covid-19 on April 26. At the time, his entire immediate family was infected, and only six friends and neighbours could attend the funeral.“The situation was such that none of us could be there to set fire to his pyre, and it was only after 15 days that we could collect his remains from the crematorium,” Rana said.Since the second wave hit the national capital, the crematoriums are lined with dead bodies waiting their turn. In the first week of May, when cases were at its peak, the waiting time at these facilities was anywhere between 16-36 hours. Many instances of good samaritans, including NGO volunteers, policemen and regular citizens helping with cremations of abandoned Covid infected bodies have been reportedOther cremation facilities said that they, too, were facing increased instances of abandoned remains lying with them.Mukesh Singh, a caretaker at the Ghazipur cremation ground, said that while the crematorium does not provide storage facilities for the Covid infected bodies, there are NGOs and citizens’ group who step in.“Most people prefer collecting the remains of their loved ones themselves, but where families don’t turn up, there are NGO volunteers who pick the remains, and then immerse them as per ritual,” Singh said.Madhukar Trehan, chairperson of the Shiv Shakti Sangathan, a volunteer group helping collect the abandoned remains of Covid infected bodies at the Ghazipur and Mulla Colony crematoriums, said “Picking ashes is a very important part of the last rites of the dead. Every day our volunteers assist the crematorium staff in collecting the ashes of bodies, whose families have not turned up for them.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/abandoned-remains-of-covid-dead-bodies-pile-up-at-crematoriums-in-delhi-as-families-fear-infection-101621017060734.html
15-05-2021||Delhi||After several days of delay, Delhi govt to begin distributing free rations||The Delhi government on Friday told its officers to start distributing fully subsidised rations for May and June to the city’s 7.2 million ration beneficiaries, a programme that has been delayed due to the Covid-19 surge in the Capital, adding to the hardships of thousands of families amid a lockdown that has deprived several of their daily incomes.The government said in a statement on Friday: “Food and civil supplies minister Imran Hussain today convened a high-level meeting to review the distribution of free ration to all Public Distribution System (PDS) cardholders of Delhi under the National Food Security Act (NFSA) 2013 and under Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojna (PMGKAY) for May 2021 and June 2021… During the meeting, the minister directed officers to ensure that ration distribution is carried out in a smooth, convenient and transparent manner.A senior government official said the distribution of free ration for two months allotted under NFSA is likely to start from Saturday, and the additional ration allotted under PMGKAY is scheduled to be distributed from Monday.Approximately 1.78 million households in Delhi hold ration cards, which cater to 7.2 million beneficiaries. Rations are distributed through a network of 2,000-odd shops.Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on May 4 said the state will give free ration for two months to card holders in the light of the ongoing lockdown. A similar scheme was announced during the lockdown last year as well.Ration in Delhi is usually distributed in a week-long window between 27th of the previous month and 3rd of the concerned month – which means the distribution of rations for May have been delayed by more than 11 days, which a senior government official attributed to the unprecedented fourth wave of the pandemic.“The decreasing number of cases and the fall in positivity rate suggest that the situation is slowly getting stable. However, while collecting ration, people will still have to take utmost precautions,” said the official, who asked not to be named.“We are struggling for food. For the last few days, we have been going to a nearby shelter where meals are distributed for free. But that entails an immense amount of risk in terms of getting infected by the virus. We have two children,” said Ramesh Prajapati, a 45-year-old factory worker in west Delhi’s Mayapuri industrial area, who along with his wife Anita, a domestic worker, have been without any stable income for around three weeks now.Right to Food campaign member Anjali Bhardwaj said, “Lockdown was imposed in Delhi nearly a month ago, which has resulted in cessation of income earning opportunities for the working poor. They have been struggling to afford two square meals a day for themselves and their children. In such a situation, it is shocking and absolutely unacceptable that the Delhi government has delayed the distribution of ration for the month of May, forcing people to buy grains in the open market.”Shailendra Kumar, president of Delhi public distribution system welfare association, said “Distribution of ration for May has witnessed immense delay causing hardships to large number of people. Now that ration will finally be distributed, the government has to ensure that all protocols are in place for safety and security of beneficiaries and ration shop owners and managers. Ration shops should be given PPE and safety gears too.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/after-several-days-of-delay-delhi-govt-to-begin-distributing-free-rations-101621017059985.html
15-05-2021||Delhi||Oxygen concentrator case: High court refuses interim relief to Navneet Kalra||The Delhi high court on Friday refused to grant interim protection from arrest to Khan Chacha owner Navneet Kalra in connection with the alleged black marketing and hoarding of oxygen concentrators.“I am persuaded by the reasons given by the trial court which is a valid ground for me not to grant any interim protection now,” said the single-judge bench of justice Subramonium Prasad.He posted the matter for further hearing to Tuesday (May 18), after additional solicitor general SV Raju, appearing for the police, sought more time to file a reply and argue the case.Raju also opposed any interim relief to Kalra by arguing that the present case was not one where such a protection can be given.In recent searches by the Delhi Police, 524 oxygen concentrators were recovered from three restaurants owned by Kalra.Demand for oxygen concentrators had swelled during the fourth wave of the Covid-19 pandemic in the national capital as many hospitals had ran out of medical oxygen as the number of critically ill patients rose. Such concentrators, which can derive 80-90% pure oxygen from ambient air, was also a crucial part of the medical supplies and aids provided by many foreign countries to help India’s efforts against the pandemic.Also, investigators said they possess evidence to prove that the oxygen concentrators, which were bought for ₹14,000 to ₹15,000, were being sold for prices upwards of ₹75,000.Kalra has been on the run since the equipment were seized from his restaurants, according to the police. The police said he could not be traced despite searches being conducted in Delhi and adjoining states such as Uttarakhand.On Thursday, a city court had denied him anticipatory bail observing that the allegations against him were serious and his custody is required to “unearth the entire conspiracy”. Subsequently, he moved an anticipatory bail plea before the high court, which heard the matter late Thursday evening and had posted the matter to Friday for further proceedings.On Friday, senior advocates Abhishek Manu Singhvi and Vikas Pahwa, who appeared for Kalra, sought interim relief for their client till the matter was heard on Tuesday (May 18). Singhvi argued that this was a case of harassment and punishment cannot be given to a person before fixation of price of an essential commodity.He also contended that the prosecution’s claim that the oxygen concentrators were of substandard quality. He referred to the police’s reply in another case, where they had told the court that the seized equipment had been given to Covid care centres.On Thursday, Singhvi had said that his client bought the concentrators from Matrix Cellular after paying GST and the payment was made via credit card, therefore, there was nothing clandestine about the purchase of the equipment. He had said that Kalra sold the equipment within the labelled price that Matrix, which imported the concentrators, had fixedFollowing arguments, the court posted the matter to May 18 for further hearing..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/oxygen-concentrator-case-high-court-refuses-interim-relief-to-navneet-kalra-101621016999973.html
15-05-2021||Pune||Like a bridge over troubled water... friends in deed||Fear of getting infected with the Sars-Cov-2 virus has left a severe impact on people’s mind, and even relatives are refusing to come forward to help patients. While on the other hand, friends are extending help without any hesitation.Many of those living as tenants or staying in paying guest accommodation (PG) in the city are facing trouble after testing positive for the virus.Ashok Rungta, who stays alone in a rented room at Wakad, was caught in a fix when he was told to get admitted at the New Jijamata Hospital, Pimpri, after testing positive for the virus.“I called my cousin who stays in Aundh, with his family, so that he can complete formalities at the hospital. But he politely refused, due to the fear of infecting his family and himself,” explains Rungta, who spent six days in the hospital before getting discharged.During tough times, Rungta’s friend-cum-colleague working at Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC) Bhosari, Vishal Diwanji stepped up by providing home-cooked food thrice a day and also handled all the administrative procedures of the hospitals.“I followed all the norms while visiting the hospital. My family members know Ashok for the last two years and did not hesitate to help. Even now, we are providing him food from home as he has been told to take rest for 15 days,” said Diwanji.Sunil Lakhan, a watch guard at the garden near Dange Chowk, performs his duty from 8 am to 3 pm and then goes to Aditya Birla Hospital to help his neighbours, who are taking treatment for Covid.“Sunil sir and Sunita ma’am (Rajan) have supported me and my family in the last two years. For the last five days, their kids who tested negative are living with us. We provide them tiffin and whatever they need in the hospital,” said Lakhan.Sunil adds, “I thought my brother would take care of my eight-year-old son and 10-year-old daughter and take them to their house in Baner, but they denied help due to the fear of getting infected. I was not expecting this since my children are Covid negative. Glad my neighbour is helping me.”Meanwhile, elderly couple Prasad and Urmila Girme, who were advised home quarantine after suffering from mild symptoms were offered help by their maid Rachana Shete, who has stayed back in their house at Karvenagar.“Their son stays out of Pune so I could get myself accommodated in one of the rooms. I am happy that their second test came negative,” said Shete.“My sister who stays on Paud road could not help me as her son was reluctant to deliver tiffin at my place. I am blessed to have a maid like Rachana,” said Prasad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/fighting-covid-supportive-friends-stand-through-thick-and-thin-101621000439092.html
15-05-2021||Gurugram||Covid-19 in Gurugram: Positivity rate dips below 20% after five-week surge||The district on Thursday reported 2,159 new Covid-19 cases that took the test positivity rate (proportion of positives out of the sample tested) below 20% after almost a month in the district, according to the health department data.Even as the active case count continues to remain below 3,000 over the past few days, the health department and hospitals confirmed 17 Covid-19 deaths, the highest toll in a day at the district level that took the total toll to 638.The dip comes at a time when the Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT–PCR) test has declined in the last two days, compared to the number of tests administered on April 16, when the positivity rate was almost 19%. Officials and experts claimed that the lockdown has led to the declining positivity rate.Also Read| Vaccinations for 18-44 suspended, 8K doses left for 45+ in GurugramAccording to the district health bulletin, in the last two days, over 6,000 RT-PCR tests were administered along with 4,500 rapid antigen tests and on Thursday, the positivity rate reached nearly 19.5%. At the state level too, the positivity rate decreased to 32.5%, which is still the fifth-highest in the country.At the district level, the total tally of active cases reached 30,352, of whom 2,292 are currently admitted to hospitals, while 27,981 are in home isolation.According to health department officials, the impact of the surge is seen on deaths, which, they said often increase a few days after the peak. “The surge in deaths is expected as the district has seen a spike in new infections in the last few weeks. Although cases are stabilised now, the impact of surge can be seen on deaths. It fluctuates between one and two per cent of the currently active cases,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer.At 5,024, the district reported the highest number of cases on April 29, after which an ongoing night curfew was extended to a total lockdown. Currently, the lockdown, which is labelled a Mahamari Alert, Surakhshit Haryana by the state government, is going to last at least till May 17 to control the transmission of infection.Containment zonesTo control the surge, at least 165 containment zones under 27 urban primary health centres have also been formed. It has declined from 176 zones created in the last week of April, as cases have dipped. Currently, the maximum number of containment zones are under the Tigra urban primary health centre (UPHC), which covers sectors 42 to 57, including Golf Course Road.Also Read| Uttarakhand, Haryana, Bihar now among states with highest Covid-19 deathsAccording to the containment zone order issued by the district administration, there are at least 19 containment zones under Chanderlok UPHC, covering Sushant Lok, 15 under Patel Nagar, 14 in Nathupur, which covers DLF Phase-3, and nine each in Badhshahpur and Chauma.In densely populated areas of Firoj Gandhi Colony, Kasan and Wazirabad have seven containment zones each, while there are six zones each in Rajiv Nagar, Bhangrola and Fazilpur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/positivity-rate-dips-below-20-after-five-week-surge-101620927232766.html
15-05-2021||Gurugram||Lockdown in Gurugram: Infrastructure projects hit due to reduced workforce||Labour workforce for different infrastructure projects in the city has reduced by up to 20% due to the lockdown, said officials of the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) on Wednesday. Due to this, three major projects of Dwarka Expressway, Delhi-Mumbai highway and Gurugram-Sohna flyover have been affected, said officials.“Labour force has reduced in the past few weeks, even before the lockdown was announced in Gurugram. We have tried to assure them that all Covid-19 related safety measures are being taken at project sites, but still, labourers are continuing to go back to their villages due to various reasons. So far, 20% of the workforce has reduced in the city,” said an NHAI official, requesting anonymity.The official cited above said that delay in completion dates of the projects cannot be estimated at present as Covid-19 cases are still increasing, but work is being managed with the available workforce.Meanwhile, infrastructure projects of the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) — including the four key road development projects underway at Huda City Centre, Mahavir Chowk, Atul Kataria Chowk and Umang Bharadwaj Chowk — that are scheduled to be completed and inaugurated by August this year, are now likely to get delayed.Sunil Kundu, the superintending engineer of the Infrastructure-I division of GMDA, said, “Our main projects like the underpass at Huda City Centre and new flyovers that were being constructed in the city have been affected due to the lockdown and lack of labour. But we are managing with in-house workforce available with us. The projects that were scheduled to get completed by mid-2021 will get extended by another few months.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/infra-projects-hit-due-to-reduced-workforce-101620927172069.html
15-05-2021||World||'Free Palestine': Tensions in Paris as pro-Palestinian protesters take to streets||Paris police used tear gas and water cannon Saturday to disperse a pro-Palestinian rally held despite a ban by authorities, who feared a flare-up of anti-Semitic violence during the worst fighting between Israel and Hamas in years.Between 2,500 and 3,500 people converged on the heavily immigrant Barbes neighbourhood in the north of the capital, according to interior ministry figures, amid a massive security presence involving some 4,200 officers.Police blocked off wide boulevards as well as narrow streets where some of the protesters were forced to retreat, while knots of residents and passers-by watched or recorded the scene with their phones.Some threw stones or tried to set up roadblocks with construction barriers, but for the most part police pursued groups across the district while preventing any march toward the Place de la Bastille as planned."You want to prohibit me from showing solidarity with my people, even as my village is being bombed?" Mohammed, 23 and wearing a "Free Palestine" t-shirt, told AFP.As a cold rainstorm settled over the city toward evening, many protesters left, leaving a large group of mostly young men facing off against ranks of officers who held their ground on a stretch of boulevard.A handful of garbage bins were set on fire and rocks and other projectiles were hurled toward police, but no arrests were reported.Ban 'unacceptable'The march was banned Thursday over concerns of a repeat of fierce clashes that erupted at a similar Paris march during the last war in 2014, when protesters took aim at synagogues and other Israeli and Jewish targets."We all remember that extremely troubling protest where terrible phrases like 'death to Jews' were yelled," Mayor Anne Hidalgo told AFP on Friday, welcoming a "wise" decision to ban the march.But Walid Atallah, president of the Association of Palestinians in Ile-de-France, the region encompassing Paris, accused the government of inflaming tensions with the ban."If there were genuine risks of public disorder, of serious problems, they would have prohibited it right away," he told a press conference ahead of the march."They banned it at the last minute -- it's unacceptable," he said.Similar protests in Germany and Denmark this week have degenerated into clashes leading to several arrests.The protest had originally been called to mark the Nakba, as Palestinians call the "catastrophe" of Israel's creation in 1948, which turned hundreds of thousands into refugees.But a Paris court upheld the ban Friday, saying the "international and domestic context" justified fears of unrest "that could be as serious or even worse than in 2014".Protests around FranceInterior Minister Gerard Darmanin also called for similar bans in other cities if necessary, and officials prohibited marches in Nice, where around 150 people gathered nonetheless, and in some Paris suburbs."We don't want scenes of violence, we don't want to import a conflict onto French soil, we don't want eruptions of hate on our streets," government spokesman Gabriel Attal said Saturday in Marseille.But no incidents were reported as around 22,000 people nationwide gathered for dozens of protests and marches, including in several other cities like Montpellier, Toulouse and Bordeaux.Critics accuse France of being too favourable towards Israel in the latest conflict, which has seen a barrage of rocket fire from Gaza met with Israeli artillery and air strikes.The ban has caused a split among French politicians, with President Emmanuel Macron's centre-right party and the right-wing opposition supporting the move, but leftists calling it an unacceptable attack on freedom of expression.Macron's office said he spoke with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu on Friday, offering his "condolences for the victims of the rocket fire claimed by Hamas and other terrorist groups."The statement said Macron urged a return to peace and "his concern about the civilian population in Gaza".France has the largest Muslim population in Europe, with an estimated five to six million people.It also has the largest Jewish population worldwide after Israel and the United States.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/free-palestine-tensions-in-paris-as-pro-palestinian-protesters-take-to-streets-101621102700971.html
15-05-2021||World||Myanmar frees Japanese journalist as gesture to Tokyo||An arrested Japanese reporter returned home Friday after being released by Myanmar's ruling junta in what it called a gesture of friendship to Japan.Japanese Foreign Minister Toshimitsu Motegi said Yuki Kitazumi was released after efforts by Japanese diplomats and others. The reporter boarded a plane at Yangon's airport and landed in Japan on Friday night.Kitazumi, a freelance journalist and former reporter for Japan’s Nikkei business news, said in brief comments at the airport that he learned of his release the night before and was told to pack his bag in 10 minutes.“As a journalist I wanted to stay in Yangon and keep reporting, but I had to come back, and that is my regret,” he said. He said he hopes to keep telling the world about what’s happening in Myanmar.The military seized power on Feb. 1, ousting the elected government of Aung San Suu Kyi. It has faced large, constant popular opposition, which it has tried to suppress by using force that has cost hundreds of lives and by muzzling the news media.Myanmar's army-run Myawaddy TV said Kitazumi was arrested on April 18 for “inciting” anti-military civil disobedience and riots.“Although the journalist is a lawbreaker, the case will be closed and he will be released at the request of the Special Envoy of the Japanese Government for National Reconciliation in Myanmar, in view of the close ties and future relations between Myanmar and Japan," the junta said in a statement read on TV.Japan has criticized the military government’s deadly crackdown on opposition but has taken a milder approach than the United States and some other countries that imposed sanctions against members of the junta.Kitazumi was also charged with violating visa regulations. He was the first foreign journalist to be charged under a statute which the state press has described as aiming at “fake news.”He has posted reports and views about developments in Myanmar on Facebook. Hours before his arrest, he posted a video showing Myanmar citizens gathering at a Tokyo temple to pay tribute to people killed by Myanmar security forces trying to quell protests.Kitazumi had been detained briefly by police in late February while covering pro-democracy protests in Myanmar.The announcement that he had been granted clemency came a day after a military court sentenced a Myanmar journalist, Min Nyo, to three years in prison on similar charges.Min Nyo is a correspondent for the Democratic Voice of Burma, an online and broadcast news agency which has continued to operate despite being banned by the junta.A statement issued by DVB said Min Nyo was covering a March 3 anti-junta protest in the town of Pyay, 260 kilometers (160 miles) northwest of Yangon, when he was arrested and severely beaten by police.About 80 journalists have been arrested since the military's takeover. Roughly half are still detained and most of them are being held under charges similar to the one for which Min Nyo was convicted, as are many activists opposed to the military regime.Rights group Amnesty International said Min Nyo’s case showed the ruthlessness of the junta and the risks faced by journalists reporting on the junta’s abuses.“Min Nyo’s conviction must be quashed, and he should be released immediately -– along with all other journalists, activists and human rights defenders imprisoned and detained solely for their peaceful opposition to the military coup,” the group's deputy regional director, Emerlynne Gil, said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/myanmar-frees-japanese-journalist-as-gesture-to-tokyo-101621102066322.html
15-05-2021||World||Israel avoiding harming 'uninvolved' people in Gaza: PM Netanyahu tells Biden||Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu told US President Joe Biden on Saturday that Israel "is doing everything to avoid harming" people who are not involved in its fighting with Hamas and other groups in Gaza.According to a summary of the phone call released by Netanyahu's office, the Israeli premier told Biden that "the uninvolved were evacuated" from a Gaza tower block that housed media offices as well as other offices and apartments and that was destroyed earlier in the day in an Israeli air strike."Prime Minister Netanyahu thanked the president for the support of the United States for our right to defend ourselves," the readout said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/israel-avoiding-harming-uninvolved-people-in-gaza-pm-netanyahu-tells-biden-101621101804085.html
15-05-2021||World||Palestinian Prez gets 'important' phone call from Biden amid Israel-Gaza fight||Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas received an "important" phone call on Saturday from U.S. President Joe Biden, Abbas's spokesman said, the first call between the two leaders since Biden took office in January.The conversation came amid heavy fighting between Israel and Palestinian militant groups in the Gaza Strip. Biden dispatched an envoy to the region on Friday to help work for calm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/palestinian-prez-gets-his-first-phone-call-from-biden-amid-israel-gaza-fight-101621099462431.html
15-05-2021||World||Nepal scales back Hindu chariot festival as Covid-19 cases surge||A drastically truncated version of a Hindu chariot festival took place Saturday in Nepal's capital amid strict Covid-19 restrictions, following an agreement by organisers and authorities that prevented a repeat of violent confrontations between police and protesters last year.Typically, a five-story-high wooden chariot of the deity Rato Machindranath — whose statue is made from clay and covered in red paint with wide-open eyes — is pulled by devotees around a suburb of the capital, Kathmandu. The annual festival lasts about a month and draws tens of thousands of people.But this year, only around a hundred hand-picked devotees were allowed to pull the chariot for just a few meters (yards), as riot police sealed off the neighbourhood to prevent any spectators from entering.The Himalayan nation is experiencing a coronavirus surge, with record numbers of new infections and deaths. Authorities imposed a lockdown across most of the country last month, and extended it in recent days by another two weeks.The agreement to drastically scale back the festival came after consultations among local politicians, officials, security forces, priests and organisers. Many devotees stayed home and celebrated with feasts and rituals with their families.Last spring, the statue was built but remained parked because of virus restrictions until September, when thousands of protesters defied a lockdown to take part in the festival. Several people were injured as police in riot gear blocked protesters as they moved the chariot, dousing them with water cannons and firing tear gar. The protesters threw stones at the police.The festival is held in the belief that it will to please gods so they can provide for a generous rainfall, a good harvest and prosperity. It’s thought to have been held for more than 1,350 years.Nepal, with a population of around 30 million, has reported 447,704 confirmed coronavirus cases and 4,856 deaths.On Friday, China canceled attempts to climb Mount Everest from its side of the world’s highest peak because of fears of importing Covid-19 cases from neighboring Nepal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/nepal-scales-back-hindu-chariot-festival-as-covid-19-cases-surge-101621097730438.html
15-05-2021||World||Two main contenders sign up for Iran's presidential election||Two of the main contenders to become Iran's president, hardline judiciary chief Ebrahim Raisi and former parliament speaker Ali Larijani, registered on Saturday to run in next month's election.The June 18 election to succeed President Hassan Rouhani is seen as a test of the legitimacy of the country's clerical rulers who are hoping for a high turnout. Rouhani is barred by term limits from running again.But voter interest may be hit by rising discontent over an economy that has been crippled by U.S. sanctions reimposed after Washington exited a nuclear deal between Iran and major powers three years ago.Raisi is a 60-year-old mid-ranking cleric in Iran’s Shi’ite Muslim establishment. Appointed by Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei as head of the judiciary in March 2019, he has emerged as one of the country's most powerful figures and a contender to succeed Khamenei.Larijani, a former nuclear negotiator and an adviser to Khamenei, is hoping to secure backing from both moderates and hardliners and bridge the gap between them."I have come as an independent to the stage to make changes in the executive management of the country and to fight poverty, corruption, humiliation and discrimination," Raisi was quoted as saying in a statement by local media before registering.“I have come to form a strong people’s government for a strong Iran” with the help of “the brave youth,” Raisi said, apparently alluding to recent comments by Khamenei who said he expected a “capable and energetic government” to come to power.The judiciary chief lost to Rouhani in the 2017 presidential election.Reformists and rights activists say they are alarmed by Raisi's background as a hardline judge, especially during the 1980s when he was one of four judges who imposed death penalties on thousands of political prisoners.Raisi said his government “will not lose one moment to lift the oppressive sanctions”.First Vice President Eshaq Jahangiri, a moderate ally of Rouhani, also registered to run.Registration of candidates ended on Saturday, after which entrants will be screened for their political and Islamic qualifications by the 12-member Guardian Council vetting body, which has in the past disqualified many moderates and reformers. Six of the members of the hardline body are named by Khamenei.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/two-main-contenders-sign-up-for-iran-s-presidential-election-101621095798417.html
15-05-2021||World||World will know less about what is happening in Gaza, says AP as Israel destroys media offices||An Israeli airstrike destroyed a high-rise building in Gaza City that housed offices of The Associated Press and other media outlets on Saturday. All AP employees and freelancers evacuated the building safely.AP President and CEO Gary Pruitt has released the following statement:We are shocked and horrified that the Israeli military would target and destroy the building housing AP’s bureau and other news organizations in Gaza. They have long known the location of our bureau and knew journalists were there. We received a warning that the building would be hit.We are seeking information from the Israeli government and are engaged with the U.S. State Department to try to learn more.This is an incredibly disturbing development. We narrowly avoided a terrible loss of life. A dozen AP journalists and freelancers were inside the building and thankfully we were able to evacuate them in time.The world will know less about what is happening in Gaza because of what happened today.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/world-will-know-less-about-what-is-happening-in-gaza-says-associated-press-101621088897295.html
15-05-2021||World||Kenya’s top scientist warns the world of new ‘super variants’ as India halts vaccine supply||A top Kenyan scientist has issued a stark warning for the world as the vaccine supply in the African nation is facing a crunch after India halted vaccine export to control the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) catastrophe back home. Kenya has relied solely on Covax, a global alliance aimed at providing equitable access to Covid-19 vaccines, for its immunisation program.Covax provided the African nation with over a million doses of Covidshield, a version of the AstraZeneca's Covid-19 vaccine manufactured by the Serum Institute of India (SII). Kenya has used up almost all the available doses and the suspension of vaccine export by India has brought the immunisation drive in the country to a grinding halt.According to Our World in Data, less than two per cent of the Kenyan population has received one dose of the Covid-19 vaccine, and with the June delivery under Covax already in doubt, the country is looking to an uncertain future. With having such a low percentage of the Kenyan population received Covid jab, that too with the only dose of two-dose regimen, it is still above the overall percentage of the vaccinated African population, indicating that the situation in other countries is worse.Dr Ahmed Kalebi, a pathologist and founding partner at LancetGroup Laboratories, East Africa, told CNN that the Covid catastrophe in India is a red flag for the whole world. While the third world countries, Kalebi said, struggled to contain previous Covid waves, they might witness “something worse if something is not done”. He urged wealthier nations to rethink their vaccination strategy as they are now moving swiftly to inoculate lower-risk groups, including children and adolescents.The US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) has recommended expanded usage of Pfizer-BioNtech Covid-19 vaccine for 12- to 15-year-olds after the Food and Drug Administration granted emergency use authorisation. Kalebi said that vaccination of teenagers “makes no sense” when vulnerable groups and potential superspreaders across the world haven’t been inoculated.“These are likely the breeding grounds for new super variants. It is a global village. None of us is safe until all of us are safe,” he warned.The World Health Organization (WHO) has also criticised the vaccination strategy of rich nations, saying the world is witnessing “moral catastrophe”. During a press briefing on Friday, WHO director-general Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus highlighted that vaccine supply in lower- and lower-middle-income countries has not been enough to vaccinate even their health care workers.“I understand why some countries want to vaccinate their children and adolescents, but right now I urge them to reconsider and to instead donate vaccines to COVAX,” said Dr Tedros.In early March, a study suggested that different virus variants of concern appear to be converging through mutations towards a “super variant” that would make the fight against Covid-19 difficult. The researchers from the US, UK, Sweden, and South Africa noted that the emergence and rapid rise in prevalence of three independent SARS-CoV-2 "501Y lineages'' prompted renewed concerns about the “evolutionarily capacity of the virus to adapt to both rising population immunity, and public health interventions such as vaccines and social distancing.”“[W]e find evidence that a significant portion of the ongoing adaptive evolution of the 501Y lineages also involves further convergence between the lineages,” the study, published as a preprint, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/kenyas-top-scientist-warns-of-super-variants-as-india-halts-vaccine-supply-101621085044468.html
15-05-2021||World||'Nihao Mars': China's Zhurong rover makes history, touches down on red planet||China's probe to Mars touched down on the Red Planet Saturday to deploy its Zhurong rover, state media reported, a triumph for Beijing's bold space ambitions and a history-making feat for a nation on its first-ever Martian mission.The lander carrying Zhurong completed the treacherous descent through the Martian atmosphere using a parachute to navigate the "seven minutes of terror" as it is known, aiming for a vast northern lava plain known as the Utopia Planitia.It "successfully landed in the pre-selected area", state broadcaster CCTV said in a special television programme dedicated to the mission called "Nihao Mars" ("Hello Mars").The official Xinhua news agency cited the China National Space Administration (CNSA) in confirming the touchdown.It makes China the first country to carry out an orbiting, landing, and roving operation during its first mission to Mars -- a feat unmatched by the only other two nations to reach the Red Planet so far, the United States and Russia.President Xi Jinping sent his "warm congratulations and sincere greetings to all members who have participated in the Mars exploration mission", Xinhua reported.China has now sent astronauts into space, powered probes to the Moon, and landed a rover on Mars -- the most prestigious of all prizes in the competition for dominion of space.The three-month mission - Zhurong - named after a Chinese mythical fire god, arrived a few months behind America's latest probe to Mars -- Perseverance -- as the show of technological might between the two superpowers plays out beyond the bounds of Earth.Six-wheeled, solar-powered, and weighing roughly 240 kilograms (530 pounds), the Chinese rover is on a quest to collect and analyse rock samples from Mars' surface.In a message published Saturday evening on the social network Weibo, the Zhurong greeted its "Earth friends"."I'm still inside the landing pod," a post on its official account said. "Can't wait to find out what's on Mars."The launch of China's Tianwen-1 Mars probe which carried the rover last July marked a major milestone in China's space programme.The spacecraft entered Mars' orbit in February and after a prolonged silence state media announced it had reached the "crucial touchdown stage" on Friday.The landing was set to be a nail-biter for the China National Space Administration, with state media describing the process of using a parachute to slow descent and buffer legs as "the most challenging part of the mission".It is expected to spend around three months there taking photos and harvesting geographical data.The complicated landing process is called the "seven minutes of terror" because it happens faster than radio signals can reach Earth from Mars, meaning communications are limited."The distance was too far away that the spacecraft has to do it totally by itself," said Chen Lan, an independent analyst specialising in China's space programme. "If there was something wrong, people on the Earth have no way to help."Several US, Russian, and European attempts to land rovers on Mars have failed in the past, most recently in 2016 with the crash-landing of the Schiaparelli joint Russian-European spacecraft.The latest successful arrival came in February when US space agency Nasa landed its rover Perseverance, which has since been exploring the planet.The US rover launched a small robotic helicopter on Mars which was the first-ever powered flight on another planet.China has come a long way in its race to catch up with the United States and Russia, whose astronauts and cosmonauts have decades of experience in space exploration.It successfully launched the first module of its new space station last month with hopes of having it crewed by 2022 and eventually sending humans to the Moon.Last week a segment of the Chinese Long March 5B rocket disintegrated over the Indian Ocean in an uncontrolled landing back to Earth.That drew criticism from the United States and other nations for a breach of etiquette governing the return of space debris to Earth, with officials saying the remnants had the potential to endanger life and property.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/nihao-mars-china-s-zhurong-rover-makes-history-touches-down-on-red-planet-101621085964213.html
15-05-2021||World||US does not have a hidden Covid-19 vaccine stockpile ready to send abroad||Why isn’t the US sharing its extra vaccine doses with the rest of the world? America led the world in buying up the messenger RNA vaccines that have proven most effective against Covid-19. It’s now starting to lead the world in not using them. Across the US, there are more than 27 million unused Moderna Inc. doses and 35 million from Pfizer Inc. and BioNTech SE, according to data compiled by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. That’s led to calls by prominent public health voices to pack America’s surplus in dry ice and ship it to places like India, where the outbreak is still raging.“You're seeing supply exceed demand here and you just know there are excess doses,’’ said Monica Gandhi, a physician and professor of medicine at the University of California, San Francisco, who authored a letter with more than two dozen colleagues calling on the US to ship spare Moderna doses to India. As American vaccinations slow and doses accumulate, the US is at a health, ethical and diplomatic crossroads. China is exporting more doses than any other country, lifting its international profile and adding to its influence. Should the US continue to buy and distribute millions of mRNA vaccines a week, targeting them at people who are in no hurry to be vaccinated or who are lower-risk? Or should it pare back its orders and free up drugmakers to send more doses to other countries in need?Press HarderWhile it might seem simple to box up the spares and send them out, the reality is far more complex. There is no stockpile of tens of millions of Moderna doses in a warehouse, ready to go. Most unused US doses are scattered across tens of thousands of locations: state facilities, local pharmacies, vaccination sites and other locations. Gathering and sending them out of the country would be unmanageable, and undercut the US domestic effort.Pfizer is already sending some shots manufactured in the US overseas. And there may be millions more unused doses from Johnson & Johnson and AstraZeneca Plc available to send out in the coming weeks or months; the exact date is unknown. But with the Biden administration rolling back pandemic guidelines on masking, in part to get vaccine fence-sitters to roll up their sleeves, there’s little indication the US strategy of ensuring more-than-ample supply at home will change any time soon. “When you’re winning, you press harder,” Andy Slavitt, the senior adviser to the White House’s Covid Response Team, told reporters this week. The US goal continues to be vaccination of 70% of adults before July 4, he said. Vaccines of ChoiceThe two-dose mRNA vaccines have shown the highest efficacy rates of those cleared for use around the globe. They are also the most challenging to store and ship, and have been bought up primarily by wealthier countries. They’ve become the vaccines of choice for Americans, because of their availability and their perceived superiority.Pfizer’s shots have also been cleared for people ages 12 to 15, making them critical to the domestic effort to vaccinate teens. It may soon be authorized for even younger children, who are at relatively low risk from Covid, reducing what’s available for more defenseless populations abroad. “If we were truly interested in taking an ethical approach to vaccination, we would have vaccinated the most vulnerable people wherever they live, but that's not the political reality,” said Richard Besser, a pediatrician and former acting director for the CDC. “Each country is focused on protecting its own,” and that means turning to American children first, said Besser, who’s now CEO of the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation.To understand how many extra shots the US actually has, it’s necessary to understand how its vaccine supply chain actually works. Moderna’s shipments are overseen by the federal government. When the company finishes making doses, it gives possession to distributor McKesson Corp., which stores them and sends them on to vaccination sites. As of April 12, Moderna had handed over 117 million doses. It’s producing 40 million to 50 million doses a month, which means that as of this week, it’s delivered about 157 million to 167 million. About 140 million of those doses have already been shipped out to vaccine locations and states, according to the CDC.If another 10 million are on order or in transit — about what ships each week — that leaves just 7 million to 17 million doses that haven't been sent around the country already to vaccine sites. The government contract with Moderna also says that the government may not use or authorize use of its vaccine order “unless such use occurs in the United States and is protected from liability under a declaration issued under the Public Readiness and Emergency.’’ Biden would have to strike a deal with Moderna or find a way around that clause to share his doses.McKesson declined to comment, and the US Department of Health and Human Services didn’t respond to an email seeking comment. A person familiar with the company’s efforts described the production estimates as in-line.Pfizer, the only other US manufacturer of mRNA vaccines, controls its own distribution. The company is committed to delivering 220 million doses to the US by the end of May. More than 170 million doses have already been dispatched, and the drugmaker is producing more than the US orders each week. That excess, according to a person familiar with the matter, is already being sold abroad, mostly in North and South America, including to hard-hit places like Brazil. Canada, Mexico and Uruguay have all said they’re receiving Pfizer doses. As its manufacturing capacity grows, Pfizer plans to sell even more doses overseas, Chief Executive Officer Albert Bourla has said. Because of the way the company’s deal with the US is structured, it doesn’t need permission to do so after meeting its domestic obligations. This path, manufacturing more doses than needed in the US, is almost certainly the road to getting more mRNA vaccines abroad. Donation StopgapUnfortunately, even if unused US inoculations were sent abroad, they would likely make barely a dent in the need. The globe needs billions of vaccines, not millions, and the places that are in crisis now may burn through their outbreaks before help could arrive.“The donation piece is in many ways a stopgap,” said Mitchell Warren, executive director of AVAC: Global Advocacy for HIV Prevention, who also signed onto the letter urging the sharing of Moderna doses. “This would be an initial supply to get emergency relief underway. It’s barely a Band-Aid, but as we understand it, it’s product that’s available and it could be deployed for good.”The next several weeks will be telling in terms of US needs — and what could be available for export. Many states have freshened their campaigns with incentives like cash lotteries for people who haven’t yet gotten shots. Colorado has requested the maximum number of doses every week, according to the state health department. Its pace of vaccinations has remained relatively steady at about 50,000 doses a day, according to the Bloomberg Vaccine Tracker. Other states are paring down. After peaking at almost 600,000 doses at its peak in April, Illinois’ most recent request was just 8,510, according to the state. It’s also sending unused doses to areas where local demand is higher. The Biden administration has said that over the next months it will send out approximately 60 million AstraZeneca doses that haven’t been cleared for US use. There are also tens of millions of J&J vaccines that may become available, likely as the American campaign winds down. Those are the vaccines the US doesn’t need or want. But they are likely what it will give.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-does-not-have-a-hidden-covid-19-vaccine-stockpile-ready-to-send-abroad-101621083796092.html
15-05-2021||World||Israel destroys Gaza tower housing AP and Al Jazeera offices||Israel destroyed a 12-storey tower block in Gaza City housing the offices of the U.S.-based Associated Press and other news media on Saturday, saying the building was also used by the Islamist militant group Hamas.The building, which also houses the offices of Qatar-based broadcaster Al Jazeera as well as other offices and apartments, had been evacuated after the owner received advanced warning of the impending strike.A Palestinian journalist was wounded in the strike, Palestinian media reported, and debris and shrapnel flew dozens of yards away.The Israeli military said its "fighter jets struck a multi-story building which contained military assets belonging to the intelligence offices of the Hamas terror organization".It said it had provided advance warning to civilians in the building, allowing them to get out.AP President and CEO Gary Pruit called the strike "an incredibly disturbing development" and said a dozen AP journalists and freelancers had been in the building and had been evacuated in time."We are shocked and horrified that the Israeli military would target and destroy the building housing AP’s bureau and other news organizations in Gaza," he said in a statement. "The world will know less about what is happening in Gaza because of what happened today."The Israeli military has said during nearly a week of intense conflict that its strikes on buildings in Gaza are aimed at hitting targets used by Hamas, the Islamist group that runs the enclave.Hamas militants have fired more than 2,000 rockets at Israel during the latest violence. Palestinians medics say, at least 139 people, including 39 children, have been killed in Gaza. Israel has reported nine dead, including two children.Israeli military spokesman Lieutenant Colonel Jonathan Conricus rejected the notion that Israel was seeking to silence the media. "That is totally false, the media is not the target," he told Reuters.Conricus called the building a legitimate military target, saying it contained Hamas military intelligence. He said Hamas may have calculated that by placing their "assets" inside a building with news media offices in it "they probably hoped that would keep them safe from Israeli attack".Al Jazeera also carried a report on the strike on its English-language website.It quoted journalist Safwat al-Kahlout as saying: “I have been working here for 11 years. I have been covering many events from this building, we have lived personal professional experiences. Now everything, in two seconds, just vanished.”Asked why the entire building was destroyed, Conricus said there was no way of destroying only the Hamas targets. Those, he said, "occupied several floors in the building.... it was deemed necessary to take down the whole building."The tower had a large telecommunications antenna on its roof, video footage showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/gaza-tower-housing-ap-al-jazeera-collapses-after-missile-strike-report-101621081974328.html
15-05-2021||World||Vaccines ‘almost certainly less effective’ against B1.617.2 transmission: Expert||The vaccines being administered to protect against Covid-19 are “almost certainly less effective” against preventing the transmission of the B1.617.2 variant first identified in India, a leading UK scientist who advises the country’s vaccination programme said on Saturday.Professor Anthony Harnden, from the University of Oxford who is the deputy chair of the Joint Committee on Vaccination and Immunisation (JCVI), said it was important to approach the easing of lockdown in England with “utmost caution” as it remains unclear exactly how much more transmissible the variant detected in India is.But he reiterated that there is no evidence so far of increased severity of illness or that the particular mutation of the coronavirus evades the vaccine.“The vaccines may be less effective against mild disease but we don’t think they’re less effective against severe disease. But in combination with being less effective against mild disease, they’re almost certainly less effective against transmission,” Prof. Harnden told the BBC.“We don’t know how much more transmissible it is yet. All the evidence so far suggests there is no evidence of increased severity of illness or that it evades the vaccine. So, at the moment, on the basis of the evidence we are doing the right thing, coolly, calmly continuing with Monday, but keeping everything under review,” he said, in reference to the next stage in the easing of lockdown that begins in England from Monday.His comments follow UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson’s Downing Street press conference on Friday evening, when he focussed on the “important unknowns” related to the B1.617.2 variant, which is believed to be largely behind India’s devastating second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic.“We believe this variant is more transmissible than the previous one – in other words it passes more easily from person to person – but we don’t know by how much,” said Johnson.“I am told that if it’s only marginally more transmissible, we can continue more or less as planned.But if the virus is significantly more transmissible, we are likely to face some hard choices. We are going to be learning a lot more in the coming days and weeks about that,” he said, in an indication that a planned June 21 timeline for an end to all lockdown measures is likely to change.He also pointed to the “good news” that so far there is no evidence to suggest the vaccines being administered by the National Health Service (NHS), which includes the Oxford/AstraZeneca vaccine being deployed in India as Covishield, will be less effective in protecting people against severe illness and hospitalisation.“So I believe we should trust in our vaccines to protect the public whilst monitoring the situation very closely. Because the race between our vaccination programme and the virus may be about to become a great deal tighter,” he said.Under the UK's action plan laid out to tackle the B1.617.2 variant of concern (VOC) first identified in India, all over-50s and the most vulnerable groups are to be offered their second Covid-19 vaccine dose earlier than scheduled.Appointments for a second dose of a vaccine will be brought forward from 12 to eight weeks for these groups.Those aged under 50 will continue to get their first dose, with their second dose at 12 weeks, as has been the deployment strategy so far.“We have implemented measures at record pace to get on top of this new variant and control the spread. Everyone has a role to play in this effort – accept the invitation to get a jab when it comes, and if you live in one of the areas where we’ve introduced surge testing, get your free PCR test. Let’s work to fight this together,” said UK Health Secretary Matt Hancock.The move will be supported by targeted new activity to accelerate vaccine uptake amongst eligible cohorts in Bolton and Blackburn with Darwen, among the 15 most affected areas from the B1.617.2 VOC.Public health officials are being backed up by the Army in some of these hotspots to distribute coronavirus tests door-to-door as part of the drives.“This move is a belt-and-braces approach to ensure as many people as possible have the full protection a vaccine has to offer – make sure to book in your jab when contacted,” said Nadhim Zahawi, UK Vaccine Deployment Minister.The government's Scientific Group for Emergencies (SAGE) believes B.1.617.2 VOC could be up to 50 per cent more transmissible than one first recorded in the southeast England region of Kent last year, which is the UK's dominant strain.The latest data on the B1.617.2 variant, published by Public Health England (PHE) on Thursday, shows the number of cases across the UK has risen from 520 last week to 1,313 cases this week.Most cases are in the north west of England, with some in London.Britain, which has recorded 128,000 coronavirus deaths since the pandemic hit last year, has seen new infections fall sharply and daily deaths in single figures in recent days.Under a pre-set lockdown easing roadmap, most businesses are set to resume full activity from Monday.Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland are also following similar patterns, though the Scottish government has kept the city of Glasgow and the northern area of Moray under restrictions because of rising case numbers of the B1.617.2 VOC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/vaccines-almost-certainly-less-effective-against-b1-617-2-transmission-expert-101621081186602.html
15-05-2021||World||CDC’s new mask change as a surprise, creates confusion for businesses||For a nation mired in a pandemic for more than a year, the biggest step toward a return to normal came suddenly, even to President Joe Biden.After warning the country on Monday to stay vigilant amid the threat of coronavirus variants, the president found himself three days later striking a different tone, celebrating that the US had already reached a sort of finish line.Late Wednesday evening, Biden’s White House learned from Rochelle Walensky, head of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, that vaccinated Americans could safely shed the face masks that have become a staple of their wardrobes in almost all occasions.That decision -- the most momentous yet in the nation’s battle against Covid-19 -- was kept under wraps among a small circle of top White House aides that night as they began making arrangements for the president to address the watershed moment the following day.Thursday’s announcement not only turned the page on painful social restrictions brought on by the pandemic, but also eased tensions around public health directives that have sowed acrimony and division over the past year, largely because of resistance among Republicans.“Free at last,” Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell said after the CDC lifted its masking guidance.But the decision also sparked confusion, as businesses weighed whether to immediately scrap mask requirements even though they have no way of knowing whether their staff and customers are vaccinated.While it appeared abrupt, the decision was the result of weeks of mounting evidence on the efficacy of coronavirus vaccines collected by the CDC. The agency has erred on the side of caution throughout the pandemic, drawing criticism for doing so even as the number of vaccinated Americans soared.Just six weeks ago, Walensky warned of “impending doom” amid a rise in infections, hospitalizations and deaths. But then a string of research began streaming in, showing that public health experts’ worst fears weren’t materializing.After making her decision on Wednesday, Walensky briefed Health and Human Services Secretary Xavier Becerra that afternoon before telling the White House around 9 p.m. She and other health officials held television appearances that night and gave no hint of the coming change.‘Spectacularly Effective’ VaccinesThe White House has said it was Walensky’s decision, made “not by us, not by the White House, not by the president, to be very clear,” Press Secretary Jen Psaki said Friday. “Even here, only a small number of people knew” ahead of the announcement, she said.Biden’s remarks Thursday afternoon were a late addition to his public schedule issued the night before.Walensky understood she’d be criticized regardless, one official familiar with her thinking said -- some would say she moved too fast while others would say she moved too slow. She viewed her job as weighing the science and then deciding, the official said.“The CDC is a science-based organization. They accumulate data and they make decisions based on the data,” Anthony Fauci told MSNBC on Friday. “As more and more data come in, it becomes clear how spectacularly effective these vaccines are.”After the CDC announced the change on Thursday, White House staff immediately began removing their own masks, even before Biden and Vice President Kamala Harris held a maskless press event in the Rose Garden that afternoon.Following the event, an aide announced over the White House press area’s loudspeaker: “Enjoy your maskless lives.”Research AdvancementsOn Thursday, Walensky cited research -- from as early as March 29 and as recently as May 6 -- showing good news in three main areas. First, the real-world effectiveness of vaccines was holding up, showing that their protections weren’t lower outside of a clinical trial setting.Secondly, Pfizer Inc.’s vaccine was found to offer protection against two variants of the virus, a string sign that mutations wouldn’t substantially circumvent the protection.Finally, one study showed lower viral loads in cases where vaccinated people did get sick, and another showed no secondary transmission among vaccinated people who contracted Covid-19. Those results allayed fears among health officials who had worried that vaccinated people could still spread the virus.Another study, released Friday, found that the Pfizer and Moderna Inc. vaccines were 94% effective at stopping symptomatic cases in healthcare workers. Walensky called that research pivotal to her decision.Armed with that knowledge -- along with data showing a drop in cases and a surge of vaccinations and vaccine supply -- Walensky made her biggest call yet as CDC director: Telling vaccinated Americans that they can set aside their masks in gatherings small or large, indoors or out.“I am cautiously optimistic that we’re seeing this great, great endpoint in sight, but I think we really do have to be humble and say that this virus, this pandemic has given us twists and turns so we can’t get our eye off the ball,” Walensky told NBC in an interview on Friday.‘Get Vaccinated’Walensky served as chief of the Division of Infectious Diseases at Massachusetts General Hospital before being tapped by Biden for the CDC role, which doesn’t require Senate confirmation. That thrust her immediately into the public eye, while other top officials, including Becerra and Surgeon General Vivek Murthy, faced weeks-long delays in confirmation.Walensky’s announcement on Thursday set off a cascade of revisions to other CDC guidance -- ranging from transportation to education -- and raises questions for businesses, churches and other organizations about how quickly to return to normal, what safety measures to have in place, and how to know who’s vaccinated. It also dangled the promise of a return to normal for people who have been hesitant to get the vaccine.“The rule is very simple: Get vaccinated or wear a mask until you do,” Biden said Thursday.Health officials including Fauci and Biden’s Covid adviser Andy Slavitt have said the announcement wasn’t specifically intended as an inducement to get vaccinated.“People may interpret it that way, but I don’t think that’s what drove the CDC,” Slavitt told Bloomberg Television on Friday. “What that will cause people to do hopefully, who haven’t been vaccinated, is to understand the vaccinations work.”With roughly 54% of US adults not fully vaccinated and children below the age of 12 still not eligible for shots, risks of another outbreak among at least some Americans remain.“Ultimately, we know that this virus is an opportunist, and where there are low rates of vaccination, it will emerge again,” Walensky told NBC on Friday. But, she said, “we needed to take this first step.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/cdc-s-new-mask-change-as-a-surprise-creates-confusion-for-businesses-101621080316050.html
15-05-2021||World||Cairn Energy sues Air India to enforce $1.2 billion arbitration award: Report||Cairn Energy has sued India's flagship carrier Air India to enforce a $1.2 billion arbitration award that it won in a tax dispute against India, according to a US District Court filing reviewed by Reuters.The move ratchets up pressure on India's government to pay the sum of $1.2 billion plus interest and costs that the British firm Cairn was awarded by an arbitration tribunal in December. The body ruled India breached an investment treaty with Britain and said New Delhi was liable to pay.Cairn filed the lawsuit on Friday in the US District Court for the Southern District of New York, seeking to make Air India liable for the judgment that was awarded to Cairn. The lawsuit argued that the carrier as a state-owned company, is "legally indistinct from the state itself"."The nominal distinction between India and Air India is illusory and serves only to aid India in improperly shielding its assets from creditors like (Cairn)," the filing said.Air India did not immediately respond to requests seeking comment.However, a senior government official, who asked not to be named, said the government and Air India had not received any formal notice of such a suit."As and when any such notice is received. The government or concerned organisation shall take all necessary steps to defend against any such illegal enforcement action," the official said, adding that New Delhi has engaged a team ready to defend against any enforcement action initiated by Cairn anywhere in the world.Cairn's move could potentially jeopardise India's attempts to divest the state-owned carrier this year. New Delhi said in December that it had received multiple expressions of interest after it moved to privatise the loss-making entity.The senior government official noted New Delhi has filed an appeal against the arbitration award, and added "the government is confident that the award will be set aside".Cairn had since January, however, begun taking steps to identify Indian assets overseas against which it could enforce the award including bank accounts, aircraft and even ships. It had also started registering its claim against India in courts in the United States, Great Britain, Netherlands and Canada.Reuters last week reported that India had asked state-run banks to withdraw funds from their foreign currency accounts abroad, fearing Cairn might sue to seize the funds.'LITTLE PROGRESS'Cairn had said previously it was pursuing a settlement with India, but in the interim it has also been laying the grounds to seize Indian assets should talks fail.Commenting on the suit, a company spokesman on Saturday said that Cairn was taking the necessary legal steps to protect shareholder interests in the absence of a resolution.He said that "Cairn remains open to continuing constructive dialogue with the Government of India" to reach a settlement.An Indian official told Reuters last week, talks between New Delhi and the company were making "little progress" and noted that India's directive to state-run banks to withdraw foreign currency funds sitting overseas showed the government is worried that Cairn may move quickly to seize assets.It is unclear whether the suit against Air India could serve as a means for Cairn to seize Air India aircraft that land on U.S. soil.Earlier this year, a Malaysian court allowed the seizure of a Pakistan International Airlines Boeing 777 aircraft that landed in Kuala Lumpur, after Dublin-based AerCap had filed suit in a British court over unpaid dues. The jet was released nearly two weeks later after the two sides reached an amicable settlement.Air India is the only Indian carrier that flies long-haul flights to destinations in the United States and Canada. The frequency of its overseas flights has recently been impacted as the second wave of the pandemic that has hit India, has prompted nations to restrict, or ban travel from the South Asian nation.(Reporting by Euan Rocha and Jonathan Stempel; Additional reporting by Aditi Shah and Aftab Ahmed in New Delhi; Editing by Ana Nicolaci da Costa)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/cairn-energy-sues-air-india-to-enforce-1-2-billion-arbitration-award-report-101621078672685.html
15-05-2021||World||Chinese authorities restrict religious practices of Tibetans in Lhasa during holy month||Tibetans in Lhasa have been instructed to restrict certain religious practices during the holy month called 'Saga Dawa', in what appears to be yet another move by Chinese authorities to curb the religious freedom of the Buddhist population.According to the Phayul news portal, this decision was notified in a circular sent by the Lhasa City Buddhist Association on May 9 ahead of the fourth month of the Tibetan calendar which began on Wednesday, which Buddhists consider sacred.The reason for the order is premised on the risk of spreading coronavirus. But, the Lobby and activist group International Campaign for Tibet (ICT), believes that the real aim is to further restrict Tibetans religious freedom."While coronavirus prevention measures are valid as the pandemic continues to afflict the world, the Lhasa authorities seem to be using them as a pretext to continue reducing space for Tibetan Buddhists to practice their faith during this holy month," the US-based group said.The constitution of the People's Republic of China (PRC), which cites the leadership of the Chinese Communist Party (CCP), states that citizens "enjoy the freedom of religious belief," but limits protections for religious practice to "normal religious activities," without defining "normal," according to the 2020 Report on International Religious Freedom released by the US State Department earlier this week.The report said CCP regulations allow only Chinese citizens to take part in officially approved religious practices and stipulate religious activity "must not harm national security."It further said CCP regulations control all aspects of Tibetan Buddhism, including religious venues, groups, personnel, and schools, and prohibit "accepting domination by external forces," which authorities said included Tibetans in exile, particularly the Dalai Lama.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/chinese-authorities-restrict-religious-practices-of-tibetans-in-lhasa-during-holy-month-101621070686251.html
15-05-2021||World||Search for tiger 'India' continues in Texas as alleged owner returns to jail||While a Texas man who police allege is the owner of a tiger that frightened residents after it was seen briefly wandering around a Houston neighborhood was ordered back behind bars on Friday, the animal’s whereabouts remain a mystery.An all-day court hearing Friday didn’t reveal any new information on the tiger’s whereabouts as Houston police say about 300 tips they’ve so far received haven’t panned out.Police allege Victor Hugo Cuevas is the owner of the tiger, a 9-month old male named India, and he is facing a charge of evading arrest after authorities allege he fled from Houston officers who responded to a call about a dangerous animal on Sunday night.After a court hearing in a separate case Cuevas, 26, is facing in neighboring Fort Bend County, his attorney, Michael W. Elliott, reiterated his client doesn’t own the tiger. Elliott said he only knew the first name of the owner, that he has been working with the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service to find India and that Cuevas only wants for the animal to be safe.“We want to find India. Somebody knows where India is at. Hopefully the cat is still doing well,” Elliott said.At a separate news conference in Houston earlier Friday, police Cmdr. Ron Borza said some of the tips officers have received on the tiger’s possible location have been “a little bit crazy.”“We know the group of people that are involved in the exotic animal trade here in Houston ... We have visited all of them and no luck so far,” Borza said.Investigators believe the tiger has likely been passed around between six and eight different locations in Houston in an effort to hide it but that the animal is probably still in the city, Borza said.Carole Baskin, from the Netflix’s docuseries “Tiger King,” has offered a $5,000 reward for the tiger’s safe return.At the time of his arrest on Monday for allegedly evading Houston police, Cuevas was already out on bond for a murder charge in a 2017 fatal shooting in Fort Bend County. Cuevas has maintained the shooting was self-defense, Elliott said. Cuevas had been released on a separate bond for the evading arrest charge on Wednesday.During a court hearing Friday, Fort Bend County prosecutor Christopher Baugh asked Cuevas be held without a bond for the murder charge, alleging the incident with the tiger showed Cuevas “has a total disregard for the public safety.”State District Judge Frank J. Fraley did not grant the request, but instead revoked Cuevas’ current $125,000 bond and issued a new bond for $300,000. It was the fifth time that Cuevas’ bond had been revoked in the murder case.Borza said that Cuevas and his attorney have not cooperated with Houston police in the search for the tiger but “maybe if he goes to jail he’d be more cooperative with us. We’ll see how that goes.”During Friday’s court hearing, Waller County Sheriff’s Office Deputy Wes Manion testified he lives in the Houston neighborhood and was alerted about the tiger by a neighbor.Manion testified he interacted with the tiger for about 10 minutes to make sure it didn’t go after someone else and that Cuevas came out of his house yelling, “Don’t kill it” and that it was his tiger.“He approached the tiger, grabbed it by the collar, kissed its forehead,” Manion said.The deputy said he identified himself to Cuevas and told him not to leave after he loaded the animal in the back of a white Jeep Cherokee but that Cuevas fled the scene just as Houston police arrived.During the court hearing, Elliott argued Cuevas was not aware that Houston police wanted to question him and that he only left because he feared for the tiger’s safety because Manion had been aggressive. Elliott said the tiger’s release was an accident as it likely jumped a fence.Elliott also said Cuevas did nothing illegal as Texas has no statewide law forbidding private ownership of tigers and other exotic animals. Tigers are not allowed within Houston city limits under a city ordinance unless the handler, such as a zoo, is licensed to have exotic animals.After the court hearing, Elliott described the tiger as more of a pet, like a dog, and that Cuevas would occasionally take care of the animal for its owner. Elliott provided copies of pictures that showed Cuevas cuddling with the tiger and kissing it.Elliott said Cuevas, who is a mixed martial arts fighter and has also worked as a barber, first met the tiger’s owner after buying a dog from him and that the man later informed him he had other animals, including the tiger.“This (tiger) is loved like a dog. Victor’s love for this cat ... is real,” Elliott said.Elliott said he did not know if Cuevas would be able to post his new bond but if he is again released, Cuevas will do all he can to find the tiger and have it live the rest of its life in a wildlife preserve.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/search-for-tiger-india-continues-in-texas-as-alleged-owner-returns-to-jail-101621070425180.html
15-05-2021||World||Israeli airstrike on Gaza home kills 10, mostly children||An Israeli air raid in Gaza City killed at least 10 Palestinians, mostly children, early Saturday in the deadliest single strike since the battle with Gaza's militant Hamas rulers erupted earlier this week. Both sides pressed for an advantage as cease-fire efforts gathered strength.The latest outburst of violence began in Jerusalem and has spread across the region, with Jewish-Arab clashes and rioting in mixed cities of Israel. There were also widespread Palestinian protests Friday in the occupied West Bank, where Israeli forces shot and killed 11 people.The spiraling violence has raised fears of a new Palestinian “intifada,” or uprising at a time when there have been no peace talks in years. Palestinians were set to mark Nakba (Catastrophe) Day on Saturday, when they commemorate the estimated 700,000 people who fled or were driven from their homes in what is now Israel during the 1948 war surrounding its creation. That raised the possibility of even more unrest.U.S. diplomat Hady Amr arrived on Friday as part of Washington's efforts to de-escalate the conflict, and the U.N. Security Council was set to meet Sunday. But Israel turned down an Egyptian proposal for a one-year truce that Hamas rulers had accepted, an Egyptian official said Friday on condition of anonymity to discuss the negotiations.Also Read | Israeli military 'tricks' Hamas with vague media statement on Gaza offensiveSince Monday night, Hamas has fired hundreds of rockets into Israel, which has pounded the Gaza Strip with strikes. In Gaza, at least 126 people have been killed, including 31 children and 20 women; in Israel, seven people have been killed, including a 6-year-old boy and a soldier.Rocket fire from Gaza and Israel’s bombardment of the blockaded Palestinian territory continued into early Saturday, when an airstrike on a three-story house in a refugee camp in Gaza City killed eight children and two women from an extended family.Mohammed Abu Hatab told reporters his wife and five children had gone to celebrate the Eid al-Fitr holiday with relatives. She and three of the children, aged 6 to 14, were killed, while an 11-year-old is missing. Only his 5-month-old son Omar is known to have survived.Children's toys and a Monopoly board game could be seen among the rubble, as well as plates of uneaten food from the holiday gathering.“There was no warning," said Jamal Al-Naji, a neighbor living in the same building. “You filmed people eating and then you bombed them?" he said, addressing Israel. "Why are you confronting us? Go and confront the strong people!”Explained: How Israel-Palestine hostilities peaked & the human cost of violenceShortly afterward, Hamas said it fired a salvo of rockets at southern Israel in response to the airstrike.A furious Israeli barrage early Friday killed a family of six in their house and sent thousands fleeing to U.N.-run shelters. The military said the operation involved 160 warplanes dropping some 80 tons of explosives over the course of 40 minutes and succeeded in destroying a vast tunnel network used by Hamas.Lt. Col. Jonathan Conricus, a military spokesman, said the military aims to minimize collateral damage in striking military targets. But measures it takes in other strikes, such as warning shots to get civilians to leave, were not “feasible this time.”Israeli media said the military believed dozens of militants were killed inside the tunnels. The Hamas and Islamic Jihad militant groups have confirmed 20 deaths in their ranks, but the military said the real number is far higher.Gaza’s infrastructure, already in widespread disrepair because of an Israeli-Egyptian blockade imposed after Hamas seized power in 2007, showed signs of breaking down further, compounding residents’ misery. The territory's sole power plant is at risk of running out of fuel in the coming days.The U.N. said Gazans are already enduring daily power cuts of 8-12 hours and at least 230,000 have limited access to tap water. The impoverished and densely populated territory is home to 2 million Palestinians, most of them the descendants of refugees from what is now Israel.The conflict has reverberated widely. Israeli cities with mixed Arab and Jewish populations have seen nightly violence, with mobs from each community fighting in the streets and trashing each other’s property.In the occupied West Bank, on the outskirts of Ramallah, Nablus and other towns and cities, hundreds of Palestinians protested against the Gaza campaign and Israeli actions in Jerusalem. Waving Palestinian flags, they trucked in tires that they set up in burning barricades and hurled stones at Israeli soldiers. At least 10 protesters were shot and killed by soldiers. An 11th Palestinian was killed when he tried to stab a soldier at a military position.In east Jerusalem, online video showed young Jewish nationalists firing pistols as they traded volleys of stones with Palestinians in Sheikh Jarrah, which became a flashpoint for tensions over attempts by settlers to forcibly evict a number of Palestinian families from their homes.On Israel’s northern border, troops opened fire when a group of Lebanese and Palestinian protesters on the other side cut through the border fence and briefly crossed. One Lebanese was killed. Three rockets were fired toward Israel from neighboring Syria without causing any casualties or damage. It was not immediately known who fired them.The tensions began in east Jerusalem earlier this month, with Palestinian protests against the Sheikh Jarrah evictions and Israeli police measures at Al-Aqsa Mosque, a frequent flashpoint located on a mount in the Old City revered by Muslims and Jews.Hamas fired rockets toward Jerusalem late Monday, in an apparent attempt to present itself as the champion of the protesters.Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has vowed that Hamas will “pay a very heavy price” for its rocket attacks as Israel has massed troops at the frontier. U.S. President Joe Biden has expressed support for Israel while saying he hopes to bring the violence under control.Hamas has fired some 2,000 rockets toward Israel since Monday, according to the Israeli military. Most have been intercepted by anti-missile defenses, but they have brought life to a standstill in southern Israeli cities, caused disruptions at airports and have set off air raid sirens in Tel Aviv and Jerusalem.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/israeli-airstrike-on-gaza-home-kills-10-mostly-children-101621068675269.html
15-05-2021||World||First repatriation flight lands in Australia after India travel ban ends||Australia carried out its first repatriation flight from India after temporarily banning all travel from the Covid-ravaged country last month, the government said, with 80 passengers arriving in Darwin on Saturday from New Delhi.Passengers had to show two negative Covid-19 tests before boarding the government-backed Qantas flight and were taken upon arrival to a converted mining camp in Howard Springs in the Northern Territory for a two-week quarantine.The Australian government came under fire for temporarily barring all travel to and from India last month, a policy that drew heavy criticism from lawmakers, expatriates and the Indian diaspora.A total of 70 passengers were barred from boarding the flight on Friday after they or their close contacts tested positive for the coronavirus."We are following the medical advice and ensuring that we protect Australians here and I'm pleased that that first flight has arrived, and obviously there will be more flights to come," Treasurer Josh Frydenberg said in a televised briefing."It's important to do the testing that we are doing right now, before people come on those planes to Australia. That's the process we are following, and we will continue to follow."Two more Royal Australian Air Force repatriation flights to the Northern Territory are scheduled this month, with about 1,000 people planned to return by the end of June. About 9,000 Australians in India have registered with the federal government, requesting to return home.The government aims to more than double the capacity of the quarantine facility in Howard Springs, 25 km (16 miles) southeast of the city of Darwin, so that it can cope with the arrival of 2,000 people every two weeks from June.India has reported more than 300,000 infections a day over the past three weeks, overwhelming its health care system and leaving many without hospital beds, oxygen and adequate treatment.By contrast, Australia has been one of the world's most successful countries in curbing the pandemic, with snap lockdowns, border closures and swift contact-tracing. It has reported just under 29,950 coronavirus infections and 910 Covid-19 deaths since the pandemic started.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/first-repatriation-flight-lands-in-australia-after-india-travel-ban-ends-101621068649167.html
15-05-2021||World||Taiwan raises alert level after sudden surge in Covid-19 cases||Taiwan ordered stricter social distancing measures for its capital and surrounding areas on Saturday after a sudden spike in coronavirus cases in a place that has so far weathered the pandemic comparatively unscathed.Authorities raised the alert level for Taipei and New Taipei City after 180 new domestic coronavirus infections were confirmed, up from 29 cases the previous day.The new restrictions mean no more than five people can gather indoors and 10 outdoors -- but authorities stopped short of ordering a total lockdown.Schools, government offices, workplaces and most businesses can stay open as long as social distancing measures can be maintained and masks are worn at all times."We will closely monitor in the next few days the development of the epidemic and adjust (closures) accordingly," health minister Chen Shih-chung said.Taiwan has been hailed as a global leader in containing the Covid-19 pandemic, with just 1,500 cases, 12 deaths and minimal social distancing needed once its initial outbreak was quelled.As a result, the island was one of the few industrialised economies to grow last year.The latest measures come a day after authorities ordered an indefinite closure of entertainment venues in the wake of the widening outbreak.The order covers bars, dance clubs, karaoke lounges, nightclubs, saunas and internet cafes as well as hostess clubs and teahouses.Municipal facilities including libraries and sports centres will also be closed.A similar cluster centred on a hospital led to the suspension of large-scale Lantern Festival events during the Lunar New Year in February.That outbreak was quickly brought under control.But the current cluster appears to be larger and more widespread.Taiwan has ordered millions of vaccine doses from Moderna and AstraZeneca.Only a small number of the latter have arrived and until this week public take-up of the vaccine scheme had been very low.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/taiwan-raises-alert-level-after-sudden-surge-in-covid-19-cases-101621067151041.html
15-05-2021||World||Israeli military 'tricks' Hamas with vague media statement on Gaza offensive||Early Friday, just after midnight, the Israeli military put out an ominous statement to the media: “IDF air and ground troops are currently attacking in the Gaza Strip.”The vaguely worded statement set off frenzied speculation that Israel had launched a ground invasion of Gaza — a much-feared scenario that would mark a bloody escalation of this week’s operation against Hamas militants. Some reporters were even told outright the incursion had begun.Hours later, the military issued a “clarification.” There were no troops inside Gaza. But by then, several major news outlets had erroneously reported the ground offensive was underway.While the army attempted to play down the incident as a misunderstanding, well-placed Israeli military commentators said the media had been used as part of an elaborate ruse to lure Hamas militants into a deadly trap that may have killed dozens of fighters.“They didn’t lie,” said Or Heller, a veteran military correspondent on Israel’s Channel 13 TV. “It was a manipulation. It was smart and it was successful.”This is how it unfolded:Late on Thursday, after days of airstrikes, Israel announced it was calling up thousands of reservists and amassing troops along the border ahead of a possible ground invasion. In another sign of escalation, Israel began firing artillery shells across the border at targets inside Gaza, according to residents.In previous rounds of fighting, ground incursions have resulted in widespread destruction in Gaza and heavy casualties on both sides.That set the stage for the late-night deception. According to Heller, Israel began scrambling forces along the border in what appeared to be final preparations for an invasion. Then came the announcement to the media, issued simultaneously in Hebrew and Arabic on Twitter. There followed alerts in major outlets, including the New York Times, that the invasion was underway.The Israeli moves sent Hamas fighters rushing into defensive positions in an underground network of tunnels known as “the Metro,” according to Heller and other Israeli reports.Israel called in 160 warplanes and bombarded the tunnels for 40 minutes, the military said. Heller said it was his understanding that scores of militants had been killed, though he said it was impossible to say.“What we saw tonight was a very sophisticated operation that had a media aspect to it,” Heller said.Hamas has not commented on the incident, and it was impossible to confirm the Israeli reports.Heller said veteran Israeli correspondents, who have close ties to the military and in many cases have served themselves, knew that there was no way Israel was sending troops across enemy lines at this stage. Heller and other military correspondents even put out statements on Twitter assuring the jittery public that there was no ground operation.The Associated Press, based on its analysis of the army’s statement, phone calls to military officials, and on-the-ground reporting in Gaza, concluded there was no ground incursion and did not report there was one.But others said the military had misled them or even lied when asked to clarify the initial statement and its ambiguous use of the word “in.” Some felt the foreign media had been turned into an accessory of sorts.Felicia Schwartz, the correspondent for The Wall Street Journal, said she alerted news of a ground offensive after receiving explicit confirmation from Lt. Col. Jonathan Conricus, a military spokesman.In a statement posted on Twitter, she said Conricus “told me directly, `There are ground troops in Gaza.’ That was the basis for a first story saying so. He retracted that statement two hours later and I changed the story to reflect that, and that is noted in the text and will be corrected.”Speaking to reporters on Friday morning, Conricus blamed an “internal miscommunication.”“These things can sometimes happen in the midst of a complex operation with many moving parts and with an unclear picture of what was happening,” he said. “As soon as I understood that I had the wrong information, I updated the relevant people with a clarification.”But some correspondents still had questions.“If they used us, it's unacceptable. And if not, then what's the story — and why is the Israeli media widely reporting that we were duped?” said Daniel Estrin, NPR's correspondent in Jerusalem, who was also told by the military that an invasion had begun.Militaries around the world have long used deception and trickery against their enemies. Two years ago, the Israeli military reportedly faked the injuries of soldiers at the scene of a Hezbollah missile strike, going so far as to evacuate them in bandages to a hospital in a helicopter.According to reports at the time, the army staged the injuries to trick Hezbollah into thinking it had inflicted casualties and therefore agree to a cease-fire.Friday’s misleading statement further strained what has often been a rocky relationship between the IDF and the foreign media.Peter Lerner, a former military spokesman to the foreign media, said the Israeli public, in general, has long felt the international media focus too heavily on the Palestinian side of the story while minimizing Israeli concerns and suffering -- and the army is similarly inclined.Lerner said he felt it was unlikely the military intentionally lied, but the damage was done regardless.“Your currency is credibility,” he said. “I think this is a crisis of that credibility in the way it’s being portrayed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/israeli-military-tricks-hamas-with-vague-media-statement-on-gaza-offensive-101621067264735.html
15-05-2021||World||Chinese spacecraft lands on Mars||An unmanned Chinese spacecraft landed on Mars on Saturday, making China only the second country after the US to successfully land on the red planet.China’s Tianwen-1 spacecraft, currently in orbit around Mars, dropped its lander and rover - named Zhurong after a Chinese mythological god of fire - on the surface of the planet early on Saturday, completing a critical stage of the ongoing mission, described by Chinese state media as “extremely complicated with no ground control”.The probe landed on a site on a vast lava plain known as Utopia Planitia, “leaving a Chinese footprint on Mars for the first time”, official news agency Xinhua reported.The entry, descent and landing (EDL) took around nine minutes, during which the speed of the craft was reduced from 20,000km per hour to zero, the China Academy of Space Technology (CAST) , the developer of the lander-rover combo of Tianwen-1, told Chinese state media.The China National Space Administration (CNSA) said in a statement that its rover Zhurong had successfully landed on Mars after “nine minutes of terror”, which is how Nasa describes the time interval when scientists on Earth have no control over the rover because of communication delays.Tianwen-1, consisting of an orbiter, a lander and a rover, was launched from the Wenchang Spacecraft Launch Site on the coast of southern China’s Hainan island on July 23, 2020.Tracking the course of the spacecraft, the Xinhua report said that in the early hours of Saturday, the spacecraft began to descend from its parking orbit, and the entry capsule enclosing the lander and rover separated from the orbiter at about 4am.“After flying for approximately three hours, the entry capsule hurtled towards the red planet and entered the Mars atmosphere at an altitude of 125km, initiating the riskiest phase of the whole mission,” the report added.Around 100 metres above the planet’s surface, the craft hovered to identify obstacles and measured the slopes of the surface. “Avoiding the obstacles, it selected a relatively flat area and descended slowly, touching down safely with its four buffer legs.“Earlier, research showed the landing site might be the edge of an ancient ocean or lake in the early history of Mars. Chinese scientists are looking for more evidence of water-ice and will share the data with their international counterparts.”Last month, China sent to space a key module for its permanent space station, which it plans to complete by 2022 as part of its ambitious space programme.The module, sent to orbit by a rocket, can provide electricity, and accommodate three astronauts for up to six months.In a commentary published on Saturday, Xinhua said China was “not looking to compete for leadership in space” but was committed to “unveiling the secrets of the universe and contributing to humanity’s peaceful use of space”.Tianwen-1 was one of three that reached Mars in February, with US rover Perseverance touching down on February 18; Hope - the third spacecraft that arrived on Mars in February this year - is not designed to make a landing. Launched by the United Arab Emirates, it is currently orbiting above Mars gathering data on its weather and atmosphere.“The first successful landing ever was made by Nasa’s Viking 1 in July 1976 and then by Viking 2 in September that year. A Mars probe launched by the former Soviet Union landed in December 1971, but communication was lost seconds after landing,” Reuters said in a report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/chinese-spacecraft-lands-on-mars-101621060563128.html
15-05-2021||World||Covid-19: Singapore to test 5,000 inmates at Changi Prison||About 5,000 inmates, staff and partners at Singapore's Changi Prison will be tested for Covid-19 over the next few days after a chef working there was confirmed to have the infection, according to a media report on Saturday.All inmates' face-to-face visits will be replaced by phone calls with effect from May 17 until further notice, the Singapore Prison Service (SPS) said.The chef is a contract staff working in the prison kitchen located at Institution A5 in Cluster A of Changi Prison, said SPS.The 39-year-old last reported to work on Wednesday. He felt unwell after work, developing a fever and runny nose, and sought medical treatment at a general practitioner clinic where he received a polymerase chain reaction (PCR) test for Covid-19.His test result came back positive the next day.SPS said it immediately ceased kitchen operations at Institution A5 and started contact tracing among staff and inmates upon confirmation of his infection.All close contacts of the man have been isolated or placed in quarantine pending issuance of a quarantine order, said the service.Affected inmates will serve their quarantine orders in prison, isolated from the rest of the inmate population. Staff, vendors and volunteers will serve theirs at MOH's designated quarantine facility.As a precautionary measure, activities including family visits, counselling sessions and non-critical hospital appointments have been halted in Institution A5 where the chef worked, said SPS.The country has so far reported more than 61,500 coronavirus cases and 31 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid19-singapore-to-test-5-000-inmates-at-changi-prison-101621057442740.html
15-05-2021||World||Top military official responsible for Canadian vaccination programme fired||The military official responsible for the logistics of Canada’s Covid-19 vaccination programme has been fired after coming under an investigation.Major-General Dany Fortin was seconded to the public health agency of Canada as vice-president for logistics and operations in November last year, as the country prepared to launch its vaccination drive.However, in a sudden announcement on Friday, a spokesperson for the department of national defence said he had “left” the assignment “pending the results of a military investigation”. Details of the reasons for the investigation were not revealed.Fortin was appointed to the critical position by Prime Minister Justin Trudeau. Fortin was also in charge of establishing and supervising the national operations centre, which is the logistics hub of the vaccine programme.His departure comes even as the Canadian armed forces is facing an institutional crisis over misconduct allegations that have claimed the last two chief of defence staff, the senior-most officer, and have also embroiled the minister of national defence Harjit Sajjan as well as officials of the prime minister’s office.General Jonathan Vance resigned in January amidst allegations of impropriety of a sexual nature, and is facing an investigation. Sajjan has come under severe criticism in this matter after the military ombudsman of the time revealed that the defence minister was informed of improper conduct with a subordinate in 2018. Earlier this month, an advisor to PM testified before the house of commons defence committee that she was aware of the allegations. Vance’s successor admiral Art McDonald stepped aside less than a month-and-a-half into his term as he also faces an investigation by the Canadian forces national investigation service.While, it is not known whether either or neither of these investigations are linked to Fortin’s exit, his absence could have an impact on the delivery of vaccinations across the country. As the logistics chief, he led a campaign that has resulted in over 50% of Canadians receiving at least one dose of a Covid-19 jab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/top-military-official-responsible-for-canadian-vaccination-programme-fired-101621057563063.html
15-05-2021||World||China bans Everest scaling over fears of importing Covid-19 from Nepal||China has canceled attempts to climb Mount Everest from its side of the world's highest peak because of fears of importing Covid-19 cases from neighboring Nepal, state media reported.The closure was confirmed in a notice Friday from China’s General Administration of Sport, the official Xinhua News Agency said.The move reflects the abundance of caution China has taken in dealing with the pandemic. While China has mostly curbed domestic transmission of the coronavirus, Nepal is experiencing a surge with record numbers of new infections and deaths.Also Read: Giripremi’s Jitendra Gaware summits Mt Everest; his 2nd 8K-m peak in less than a monthChina had issued permits to 38 people, all Chinese citizens, to climb the 8,849-meter (29,032-foot) -high mountain this spring. Nepal has given permission to 408 people. Climbing was not allowed from either side last year because of the pandemic.In Nepal, several climbers have reported testing positive for Covid-19 after they were brought down from the Everest base camp.The month of May usually has the best weather for climbing Everest. Scores have reached the summit this week and more are expected to make attempts later this month once the weather improves. Two climbers have died on the Nepalese side, one Swiss and one American.China earlier said it would set up a separation line at the peak and prohibit people on its side from coming into contact with anyone on the Nepalese side. It was unclear how that would be done.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-bans-everest-scaling-over-fears-of-importing-covid-19-from-nepal-101621055047047.html
15-05-2021||World||126 dead, 950 injured in Gaza as Israel continues air strike||Israeli fighter jets hit targets in central Gaza overnight, the army said Saturday, after a day of deadly violence rocked the West Bank and unprecedented unrest persisted inside Israel.Despite intensifying diplomatic efforts to ease five days of fighting between Israel and Palestinian militants in Gaza, Israel's air force struck several sites in the strip overnight, while rockets again tore towards the Jewish state.Overall Palestinian fatalities from strikes on Gaza have reached 126 -- including 31 children -- with 950 injured.Israel, which is also trying to contain an outbreak of internal Jewish-Arab violence, is facing a conflict in the Palestinian territories unlike any in its recent history.Its bombardment of Gaza began Monday in response to rocket fire towards Jerusalem from Hamas and other Palestinian armed groups in the enclave.More than 2,000 rockets have been fired at the Jewish state since Monday, killing nine people, including a child and a soldier, with more than 560 people injured.Israel's response has seen it hit nearly 800 targets, including a massive assault Friday on a Hamas tunnel network dug under civilian areas.Towers and homes were levelled, forcing Gaza families to seek shelter in schools and mosques, ahead of another possible bombardment."All the children are afraid and we are afraid for the children," said Kamal al-Haddad, who fled with his family to a UN-supported school in Gaza City.Early Saturday, the Israeli army said it had hit a Hamas "operation office" near the centre of Gaza City, with additional overnight strikes targeting what the military called "underground launch sites".Air raid warnings continued to wail in southern Israel early Saturday.The fighting in blockaded Gaza, the worst since a 2014 war, exploded following hostilities in east Jerusalem, the Israeli-annexed part of the city Palestinians claim as their capital.Fresh overnight tensions hit the east Jerusalem area of Shuafat, where young, masked Palestinian protesters set debris on fire as Israeli police responded with tear gas.- West Bank unrest - The West Bank saw fierce fighting on Friday, with the Palestinian health ministry saying 11 people were killed by Israeli fire.A Palestinian security source said the fighting was the "most intense" since the second intifada, or uprising, that began in 2000.Violence on Fridays in the West Bank is a traditional facet of the decades-old Israeli-Palestinian conflict, but the latest clashes are closely linked to the events in Jerusalem and Gaza.From Ramallah to Hebron and across the territory occupied by Israel since 1967, Palestinians hurled stones, Molotov cocktails and other projectiles.Israeli forces hit back with rubber bullets and, in some instances, live rounds."It would be shameful to remain quiet with what's going on in Gaza," said Oday Hassan, 21, who was protesting in Al-Birah.The health ministry said more than 150 had been wounded in the West Bank, as it appealed for blood donations.At the least one of the Palestinians killed was shot dead after attempting to stab a soldier north of Ramallah, said the Israeli army, which early Saturday reported an additional attempted knife attack during "a violent riot" in Nablus.- Intercommunal violence -Within Israel, an unprecedented wave of mob violence has seen Arabs and Jews savagely beat each other, with both synagogues and mosques set alight.More than 750 people have been arrested this week, police said.In one of the most shocking episodes of the intercommunal violence, a far-right Jewish mob beat a man they considered an Arab in Bat Yam, near Tel Aviv on Wednesday, leaving him with serious injuries.In the north, where Israel remains technically at war with neighbouring Lebanon and Syria, tensions were also rising.The army said it "fired warning shots towards a number of rioters who crossed from Lebanon into Israeli territory" on Friday, forcing them back into Lebanon.Israel's arch-enemy, the pro-Iranian Shiite group Hezbollah, announced one of its members, 21-year-old Mohamad Kassem Tahan, was killed by the Israeli shots.Three rockets were later launched at Israel from southern Syria, where Hezbollah is present, but there was no immediate confirmation of a link between the events.- 'Not over yet' -The UN said the Security Council would meet Sunday to address Gaza.US Secretary for Israel-Palestinian Affairs Hady Amr arrived in Israel on Friday as part of mediation efforts.Amr will hold talks both with Israeli officials and Palestinian leaders in the West Bank and encourage a "sustainable calm", State Department deputy spokeswoman Jalina Porter said.But Israel's Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu gave no indication that Israel was ready to ease its campaign."I said we'd deliver heavy blows to Hamas and other terror groups, and we're doing that," Netanyahu said."They're paying and will continue to pay dearly for that. It's not over yet."Israel estimates that more than 30 leaders of Hamas and its ally Islamic Jihad have been killed.It has hit sites it describes as military targets such as Hamas bomb-making facilities and the homes of senior militant commanders.The UN said 10,000 Gazans had been forced from their homes by the bombardment.Several international airlines cancelled flights amid the Gaza rocket fire, while many incoming flights have been diverted from the main airport near Tel Aviv.bur-bs/reb||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/israel-continues-air-strike-as-palestinian-death-toll-climbs-to-126-101621052753415.html
15-05-2021||World||Neera Tanden lands senior Biden admin position after Senate rebuff||Neera Tanden will start on Monday as a senior adviser to President Joe Biden in the White House two months after her cabinet nomination ran into trouble in the Senate.Tanden, a veteran Democrat, will be tasked with preparing the administration’s response to any fallout from a challenge mounted by Republicans to the healthcare act in the Supreme Court, and the US Digital Service, which works to make the government more accessible online, according to news reports.There has been no White House announcement of the appointment, but news reports said Tanden starts work on Monday.President Biden had appointed Tanden earlier to head the Office of Management and Budget, a key department with broad oversight over the entire federal government. If confirmed, she would have become the first Indian-American to hold a cabinet position in the federal government (Republican Nikki Haley had held a cabinet-rank position as ambassador to UN).Misgivings about her nomination began to be expressed immediately about tweets she had posted and since removed. She had targeted Bernie Sanders, an independent Senator who caucuses with Democrats, over his challenge to Hillary Clinton for the 2016 presidential nomination, and Republicans.The final blow, however, came from a fellow Democrat, Senator Joe Manchin, whose vote in an evenly split Senate would be critical. He killed her chances by announcing his opposition to her nomination citing her “overtly partisan statements”.The White House withdrew Tanden’s nomination shortly saying it was doing so at her request.But President Biden made it clear he would find a place for her in his administration in some other capacity.Ron Klain, a long-time associate of the president and his chief of staff, is understood to be Tanden’s strongest ally in the White House. He had lobbied hard to bolster support for Tanden’s nomination and was widely expected to ensure she landed a position in the Biden White House despite the Senate rebuff. She does not require Senate confirmation as senior adviser.Tanden joins a battery of nearly 30 Indian Americans - or more - in the Biden administration that include Vivek Murthy, who is doing a second stint as surgeon general; Vinay Reddy, director of the president’s team of speechwriters; and Bharat Ramamurti, deputy director of the National Economic Council, a White House agency that advises the president on domestic and global economic policy.Tanden had served as a senior adviser for health reform at the US Department of Health and Human Services entrusted with developing policies and provisions of the Affordable Care Act, then president Barack Obama’s signature law that is now called Obamacare. She went on to head a liberal thinktank centre for American Progress and was seen as a contender for a cabinet berth in a Hillary Clinton administration.Tanden was born in Massachusetts in 1970 to parents from India, who had divorced when she was five. She and her brother were raised by their mother single-handedly and the family went through some bad times - Tanden has spoken of them relying on food coupons - government support - to get by.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/neera-tanden-lands-senior-biden-admin-position-after-senate-rebuff-101621052403233.html
15-05-2021||World||Covid-19 in US: New Mexico adopts CDC guidance on facemasks||New Mexico has adopted guidance on facemasks from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention that says fully vaccinated Americans no longer need to wear masks indoors or outside in most cases.Under revisions Friday to the state’s emergency public health order, masks are no longer required of fully vaccinated people in many public settings, though businesses and workplaces may still make face coverings a requirement for all.Public schools are still bound by universal mask requirements with allowances for meals, as the state gradually relaxes aggressive restrictions on public gatherings and some business operations.New Mexico Gov. Michelle Lujan Grisham said that getting vaccinated is crucial to a safe future, with the statewide vaccination rate recently surpassing 50% for eligible residents 16 and over.“We are close and getting closer. But that all depends on New Mexicans continuing to protect themselves and their community by getting vaccinated,” she said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid19-in-us-new-mexico-adopts-cdc-guidance-on-facemasks-101621048366131.html
15-05-2021||World||China's unmanned spacecraft lands on surface of Mars||An uncrewed Chinese spacecraft successfully landed on the surface of Mars on Saturday, state news agency Xinhua reported, making China the second space-faring nation after the United States to land on the Red Planet.The Tianwen-1 spacecraft landed on a site on a vast plain known as Utopia Planitia, "leaving a Chinese footprint on Mars for the first time," Xinhua said.The craft left its parked orbit at about 1700 GMT Friday (0100 Beijing time Saturday). The landing module separated from the orbiter three hours later and entered the Martian atmosphere, the official China Space News said.It said the landing process consisted of "nine minutes of terror" as the module decelerates and then slowly descends.A solar-powered rover, named Zhurong, will now survey the landing site before departing from its platform to conduct inspections. Named after a mythical Chinese god of fire, Zhurong has six scientific instruments including a high-resolution topography camera.The rover will study the planet's surface soil and atmosphere. Zhurong will also look for signs of ancient life, including any sub-surface water and ice, using a ground-penetrating radar.Tianwen-1, or "Questions to Heaven", after a Chinese poem written two millennia ago, is China's first independent mission to Mars. A probe co-launched with Russia in 2011 failed to leave the Earth's orbit.The five-tonne spacecraft blasted off from the southern Chinese island of Hainan in July last year, launched by the powerful Long March 5 rocket.After more than six months in transit, Tianwen-1 reached the Red Planet in February where it had been in orbit since.If Zhurong is successfully deployed, China would be the first country to orbit, land and release a rover in its maiden mission to Mars.Tianwen-1 was one of three that reached Mars in February, with US rover Perseverance successfully touching down on Feb. 18 in a huge depression called Jezero Crater, more than 2,000 km away from Utopia Planitia.Hope - the third spacecraft that arrived at Mars in February this year - is not designed to make a landing. Launched by the United Arab Emirates, it is currently orbiting above Mars gathering data on its weather and atmosphere.The first successful landing ever was made by NASA's Viking 1 in July 1976 and then by Viking 2 in September that year. A Mars probe launched by the former Soviet Union landed in December 1971, but communication was lost seconds after landing.China is pursuing an ambitious space programme. It is testing reusable spacecraft and is also planning to establish manned lunar research station.In a commentary published on Saturday, Xinhua said China was "not looking to compete for leadership in space" but was committed to "unveiling the secrets of the universe and contributing to humanity's peaceful use of space."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/chinas-unmanned-spacecraft-lands-on-surface-of-mars-101621047583334.html
15-05-2021||World||UK to speed up 2nd dose vaccination for people above 50 years of age to check spread of Indian Covid-19 variant||A rise in cases of the Indian coronavirus variant could "pose serious disruption" to Britain's reopening plans, Prime Minister Boris Johnson warned Friday.England will take the next step of reopening on Monday as planned, but the final stage, currently scheduled for June 21, could be in doubt."I do not believe we need to delay our roadmap," said Johnson.But, "this new variant could pose a serious disruption to our progress," he said, adding "We will do whatever it takes to keep the public safe."The health ministry said the B1.617.2 variant is "beginning to spread increasingly rapidly" in northwest England and to a lesser extent in London, "and decisive action is being taken to further control its spread".Second doses of vaccines will be accelerated for the over-50s and the clinically vulnerable in a bid to keep the strain at bay, Johnson told the press briefing.Surge testing and possible local restrictions are also in the mix after infections of the variant rose from 520 last week to 1,313 this week, officials said.The government is waiting on data that will indicate if the new variant is more transmissible than other strains currently circulating before deciding on its next step, said Johnson.Scientists believe it is more transmissible, but are unsure of by how much, revealed Chief Medical Officer Chris Whitty.If only slightly, the country will reopen as planned, said Johnson.But if there is evidence of uncontrollable spread and the threat of increased pressure on NHS then more restrictions are likely, he added.'Trust our vaccines' Britain has driven down cases over the last few months thanks to a succesful vaccine campaign, and officials are optimistic they will be effective against the variant."So far, there is no evidence that our vaccine will be less effective against serious illness and hospitalisations," said the prime minister, adding the country was "in a different position from the last time we faced a new variant.""We should trust in our vaccines... while monitoring the situation very closely," he said.The government last month added India, which is experiencing a devastating wave of deaths from Covid-19, to a travel red list, meaning travellers from the country have to quarantine in hotels on arrival in Britain.In the northwest English city of Bolton, which has a sizeable population of South Asian origin, mobile testing units have been deployed and door-to-door testing is also on offer.Britain has been gradually reopening its economy, after months of coronavirus restrictions.On Monday, indoor mixing will resume in England, including in pubs and restaurants.Deepti Gurdasani, senior lecturer in epidemiology at Queen Mary's University London, said that must now be postponed."Further, we may have to actually strengthen restrictions a bit more to get on top of this, because we need to remember this is actually growing with current restrictions in place and growing rapidly," she told Times Radio.The Indian variant is also triggering concern in Scotland and Wales, which administer their own health policy.Scotland announced on Friday it was going ahead with its next stage of reopening on Monday, except in Glasgow, where restrictions will remain unchanged due to a rise in cases of the variant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-to-speed-up-2nd-dose-vaccination-for-people-above-50-years-of-age-to-check-spread-of-indian-covid-19-variant-101621046273871.html
15-05-2021||World||West Bank erupts in protest amid more Israel-Hamas fighting||Turmoil from the battle between Israel and Hamas spilled over into the West Bank on Friday, sparking the most widespread Palestinian protests in years as hundreds of young demonstrators in multiple towns clashed with Israeli troops, who shot and killed at least 11 people.Israel's bombardment of the Gaza Strip continued into early Saturday, when an airstrike on a house in Gaza City killed at least seven Palestinians — the highest number of fatalities in a single hit. That strike came a day after a furious overnight barrage of tank fire and airstrikes that wreaked destruction in some towns, killed a family of six in their house and sent thousands fleeing their homes.The Israeli military said the operation involved 160 warplanes dropping some 80 tons of explosives over the course of 40 minutes and succeeded in destroying a network of tunnels used by Hamas to elude airstrikes and surveillance.Also Read| Israel-Palestine conflict: Attacks rise, wounds deepenIsrael appeared determined to inflict as much damage as possible on Gaza’s Hamas rulers before international efforts for a cease-fire accelerated. Since Monday night, Hamas has fired hundreds of rockets into Israel, which has pounded the Gaza Strip with strikes. In Gaza, at least 126 people have been killed, including 31 children and 20 women; in Israel, seven people have been killed, including a 6-year-old boy and a soldier.Houda Ouda said she and her extended family ran frantically into their home in the Gaza town of Beit Hanoun, seeking safety as the earth shook in the darkness.“We even did not dare to look from the window to know what is being hit,” she said. When daylight came, she saw the destruction: streets cratered, buildings crushed or with facades blown off, an olive tree burned bare, dust covering everything.The latest airstrike targeted a three-story house on the edge of a refugee camp. Said Alghoul, who lives nearby, said Israeli warplanes dropped at least three bombs on the home without warning residents in advance.“I could not endure and ran back to my home,” he said. Rescuers called a bulldozer to dig through the rubble for survivors or bodies.Also Read| Israel sends air, ground troops to Gaza as conflict intensifiesShortly afterward, Hamas said it fired a salvo of rockets at southern Israel in response to the airstrike.The conflict, which was sparked by tensions in Jerusalem during the past month, has reverberated widely. Israeli cities with mixed Arab and Jewish populations have seen daily violence, with mobs from each community clashing and trashing each other’s property. New clashes broke out Friday in the coastal city of Acre.In the occupied West Bank, on the outskirts of Ramallah, Nablus and other towns and cities, hundreds of Palestinians protested against the Gaza campaign and Israeli actions in Jerusalem. Waving Palestinian flags, they trucked in tires that they set up in burning barricades and hurled stones at Israeli soldiers. At least 10 protesters were shot and killed by soldiers. An 11th Palestinian was killed when he tried to stab a soldier at a military position.In east Jerusalem, online video showed young Jewish nationalists firing pistols as they traded volleys of stone with Palestinians in Sheikh Jarrah, which became a flashpoint for tensions over attempts by settlers to forcibly evict a number of Palestinian families from their homes.On Israel's northern border, troops opened fire when a group of Lebanese and Palestinian protesters on the other side cut through the border fence and briefly crossed. One Lebanese was killed. Three rockets were fired toward Israel from neighboring Syria, but they either landed in Syrian territory or in empty areas, Israeli media said. It was not immediately known who fired them.The spiraling violence has raised fears of a new Palestinian “intifada,” or uprising, at a time when the peace process has been virtually nonexistent for years. The tensions began in east Jerusalem earlier this month, with Palestinian protests against the Sheikh Jarrah evictions and Israeli police measures at Al-Aqsa Mosque, a frequent flashpoint located on a mount in the Old City revered by Muslims and Jews.Hamas fired rockets toward Jerusalem late Monday, in an apparent attempt to present itself as the champion of the protesters. In the conflict that spiraled from there, Israel says it wants to inflict as much damage as it can on Hamas’ military infrastructure in Gaza.Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu vowed that Hamas would “pay a very heavy price” for its rocket attacks. Israel called up 9,000 reservists Thursday to join its troops massed at the Gaza border.An Egyptian intelligence official said Israel had turned down an Egyptian proposal for a one-year cease-fire that Hamas had accepted. The official, who was close to Egypt’s talks with both sides, spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss the internal negotiations.On Friday, the U.S. deputy assistant secretary of state for Israel-Palestinian affairs, Hady Amr, arrived in Israel as part of an attempt by Washington to de-escalate the conflict.US President Joe Biden gave a show of support to Netanyahu in a call a day earlier, saying “there has not been a significant overreaction” in Israel’s response to Hamas rockets. He said the aim is to get a “significant reduction in attacks, particularly rocket attacks.”Hamas has fired some 2,000 rockets toward Israel since Monday, according to the Israeli military. Most have been intercepted by anti-missile defenses, but they have brought life to a standstill in southern Israeli cities, caused disruptions at airports and have set off air raid sirens in Tel Aviv and Jerusalem.Rafat Tanani, his pregnant wife and four children, ages 7 and under, were killed after an Israeli warplane reduced their four-story apartment building to rubble in the neighboring town of Beit Lahia, residents said. Four strikes hit the building, Rafat’s brother Fadi said. The building’s owner and his wife also were killed.“It was a massacre,” said Sadallah Tanani, another relative. “My feelings are indescribable.”When the sun rose Friday, residents streamed out of the area in pickup trucks, on donkeys and on foot, taking pillows, blankets, pots and pans and bread. Thousands took shelter inside 16 schools run by the United Nations relief agency UNWRA, agency spokesman Adnan Abu Hasna said.Mohammed Ghabayen, who took refuge in a school with his family, said his children had eaten nothing since the day before, and they had no mattresses to sleep on. “And this is in the shadow of the coronavirus crisis,” he said. “We don’t know whether to take precautions for the coronavirus or the rockets or what to do exactly.”Israeli military officials cheered the operation as a successful blow against the tunnel network. Lt. Col. Jonathan Conricus, a military spokesman, said 160 warplanes operated in a “synchronized manner” for about 40 minutes as part of the operation.He said the military aims to minimize collateral damage in striking military targets. But measures the military takes in other strikes, such as warning shots to get civilians to leave, were not “feasible this time.”Military correspondents in Israeli media said the military believed dozens of militants were killed inside the tunnels. The Hamas and Islamic Jihad militant groups have confirmed 20 deaths in their ranks, but the Israeli military said the real number is far higher.“We turned the tunnels which they thought were death traps for our soldiers into traps for them.” Reserve Air Force Col. Koby Regev said on Israeli television.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/west-bank-erupts-in-protest-amid-more-israel-hamas-fighting-101621044587361.html
15-05-2021||World||US Prez Biden revokes Trump orders on social media, statues and migrants||President Joe Biden rescinded several executive actions on Friday that were put in place by Donald Trump, including one targeting social media companies that his predecessor had ordered after Twitter Inc. fact-checked his tweets.Biden also revoked an executive order that would rebrand US foreign aid and another order meant to encourage the Justice Department to prosecute people for destroying a US “monument, memorial or statue.”Biden also overturned a Trump proclamation suspending entry of immigrants seen as a financial burden to US health care system.In a statement, Biden said that his administration’s goal of expanding affordable health care access doesn’t require “barring the entry of non-citizens who seek to immigrate lawfully to this country.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-prez-biden-revokes-trump-orders-on-social-media-statues-and-migrants-101621041790156.html
15-05-2021||World||12 killed in Afghanistan mosque; ceasefire calm between Taliban, govt shattered||At least 12 people were killed in a mosque blast on the outskirts of the Afghan capital on Friday, shattering the calm on the second day of a holiday ceasefire between the warring Taliban and government forces.Among those killed was the imam, who was leading Friday prayers at the mosque for the Muslim festival of Eid al-Fitr. More than a dozen people were wounded.No group has so far claimed the attack and the Taliban denied responsibility.Afghans have been cautiously enjoying a rare respite from violence following the start of a three-day truce between Taliban militants and Afghan forces which began Thursday, after weeks of intense fighting."The death toll has jumped to 12 killed, including the imam of the mosque, and 15 others are wounded," said Ferdaws Framurz, a spokesman for the Kabul police, updating an earlier toll.A spokesman for the interior ministry said the explosives were placed in the mosque ahead of the prayers.The governor of southern Uruzgan province, Fazel Ahmad Shirzad, meanwhile accused the Taliban of twice violating the ceasefire by attacking security forces on Friday -- a day after landmine blasts killed several civilians in Kunduz, according to officials there.The blast comes after US and Afghan officials on Friday said the United States had pulled out completely from a major southern air base in the former Taliban stronghold of Kandahar.US airstrikes were launched from the base just last week to help Afghan forces push back a major Taliban offensive in the south.Washington, backed by NATO, has pledged to withdraw all foreign troops and end America's longest war by September.Concerns over transfer of base Kandahar was the birthplace of the Taliban and has in recent months seen intense clashes between the resurgent militants and Afghan forces.The US embassy in Kabul confirmed on Twitter that US forces had "completed the transition of Kandahar Airfield to Afghan forces this week".Khoja Yaya Alawi, a spokesman for the Afghan army in Kandahar, said they were waiting for an official handover, but that the last US troops "left the base on Wednesday".An Afghan army officer at Kandahar Airfield, who asked not to be named, told AFP that government forces would be left exposed by the pullout."It is now going to be very difficult for us to conduct operations," he said. "Our aircraft can't fly at night so the night operations are going to be difficult."Afghan military analyst Kabir Darwish said the "Afghan air force does not have enough capacity to replace the US".Despite the withdrawal, US Secretary of State Antony Blinken in a telephone call to President Ashraf Ghani promised "steadfast support" for Afghan forces as he condemned the recent attacks, the State Department said.A number of smaller bases have already been handed over to Afghan forces.The airfield was formerly the second largest base for US and international troops in Afghanistan, and the first airfield where US forces were stationed after the fall of the Taliban in 2001.It was also the centre of the biggest drone operation by US special forces. At its peak the base had about 26,000 US and NATO personnel.The military has for years been steadily decreasing its presence there, accelerated after Washington struck a deal with the Taliban last year to completely withdraw from Afghanistan in return for security guarantees.But the US missed the May 1 deadline, extending it to September 11 -- a move which angered the Taliban.Although fighting between US forces and the Taliban has stopped since the landmark agreement last year, battles rage daily between Afghan government forces and the militants.On Saturday, a series of blasts outside a girls' school in Kabul killed more than 50 people, mostly teenage girls.Ceasefires in the past have largely held, in what is widely thought to be an exercise by the Taliban leadership to prove it has control over the myriad factions across the country that make up the hardline movement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/12-killed-in-afghanistan-mosque-ceasefire-calm-shattered-101621039176665.html
15-05-2021||World||UK fraud agency probes Liberty Steel owner Sanjeev Gupta's Greensill links||The business empire of Liberty Steel owner Sanjeev Gupta, including its financing arrangements with bankrupt Greensill Capital U.K., is being investigated by Britain's Serious Fraud Office, the agency said Friday.The SFO said in a statement that it is investigating suspected fraud, fraudulent trading and money laundering within Gupta Family Group Alliance, including links to Greensill, the supply chain finance firm that went bankrupt earlier this year. Because this is an active investigation, the agency said it won't be providing any further comment on its probe.Gupta’s companies were among the main clients of Greensill before its collapse in March. Their reliance on Greensill stoked concerns over their financial health when it went under. Liberty Steel, which employs 5,000 people, has sought a government bailout in the wake of Greensill's collapse.Greensill’s model worked by positioning itself between businesses and their suppliers. It would immediately pay invoices that suppliers gave to their customers, for a fee. In effect, it gave suppliers certainty by ensuring that they didn't have to wait for months for payment.The relationship between Gupta's companies and Greensill has been in the spotlight over the past few weeks. Former British Prime Minister David Cameron, who acted as an adviser to Greensill that involved him lobbying his contacts in government and in the civil service, has been caught up in the fallout of the firm's bankruptcy,On Thursday, Cameron testified before lawmakers on his activities for Greensill, which he insisted was motivated by a desire to help support British workers and businesses “in the economic turmoil caused by Covid” and not by the prospect of making millions from his Greensill shares.Opposition parties are calling for tougher rules on contacts between business representatives and government officials, saying Britain’s laxly enforced lobbying regulations leave the door open to corruption.The Financial Conduct Authority, Britain's financial regulatory body, has already announced a formal investigation into Greensill’s collapse after receiving allegations that it said were “potentially criminal in nature.”The Financial Times newspaper has previously reported that Gupta’s companies handed suspicious invoices to Greensill, which the finance company paid for. In response, GFG Alliance said the invoices were for products it expected to perhaps sell in the future.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-fraud-agency-probes-liberty-steel-owner-sanjeev-gupta-s-greensill-links-101621038726603.html
15-05-2021||World||Covid-19: US trade representative meets WHO chief, discusses vaccine production||US trade Representative Katherine Tai on Friday virtually met World Health Organization (WHO) Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus to discuss increasing vaccine production and the Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPS) waiver on Covid-19 vaccines for the pandemic.According to a readout from her office, Tai explained the Biden-Harris administration's support for the waiver of intellectual property protections for Covid-19 vaccines and explained that this fits the United States' comprehensive effort to expand vaccine manufacturing and distribution around the world.Also Read | 'India's Covid-19 situation hugely concerning': WHO chiefShe also asked Ghebreyesus for his views on the immediate steps to collectively increase access to vaccines.Tai asked how the WHO declares the existence, and the end, of a pandemic, and the steps the global health body is taking to increase pandemic preparedness. She and Ghebreyesus also agreed to stay in regular communication in the days ahead.Earlier, the US Trade Representative also met Union Commerce and Industry Minister Piyush Goyal to discuss on the same issues.As per the readout from her office, Tai conveyed her deep sympathy for the people of India as they battle a wave of Covid-19 cases and reaffirmed the commitment of the United States to help India during its time of need.She also explained her support for the TRIPS waiver and text-based negotiations at the World Trade Organization (WTO), which are part of the Biden-Harris Administration's comprehensive effort to expand vaccine manufacturing and distribution around the world.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageTai recognized the WTO Members who have expressed support for future negotiations and welcomed an update from Goyal about India's efforts to revise and resubmit their waiver proposal. She and the Union Minister agreed to stay in regular communication in the days ahead.The TRIPS waiver aims to increase global vaccine production in order to take on the challenge of vaccinating the poorest of the poor and save lives.In October last year, India and South Africa, along with 57 members of WTO proposed a waiver from certain provisions of the TRIPS agreement for prevention, containment, and treatment of Covid-19.The WTO agreement on TRIPS is a comprehensive multilateral agreement on intellectual property. US President Joe Biden's administration had on May 6 announced its support for a global waiver on patent protections for Covid-19 vaccines and said it will negotiate the terms at the WTO.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid19-us-trade-representative-meets-who-chief-discusses-vaccine-production-101621036497366.html
15-05-2021||World||Two tornadoes kill at least 7 in China; over 200 injured||Two tornadoes have killed at least seven people in China and left more than 200 others injured.The Wuhan city government on Saturday said that six people had died and 218 were injured after a Friday night tornado.State media said one person died and 21 were injured in another tornado in Jiangsu province.China's official Xinhua News Agency reported that the tornado hit Wuhan at about 8:40 p.m. It toppled construction site sheds and snapped several trees, Xinhua said, citing a local government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/two-tornadoes-kill-at-least-7-in-china-over-200-injured-101621037834179.html
15-05-2021||World||'India's Covid-19 situation hugely concerning': WHO chief||India's Covid-19 situation remains hugely concerning, with several states continuing to see a worrying number of cases, hospitalisations and deaths, WHO chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said on Friday, warning that the pandemic's second year will be "far more deadly" than the first for the world.Ghebreyesus added that the WHO is responding to the Covid-19 surge in India and has shipped thousands of oxygen concentrators, tents for mobile field hospitals, masks and other medical supplies."India remains hugely concerning, with several states continuing to see a worrying number of cases, hospitalisations and deaths," he said at the daily media briefing.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage"And we thank all the stakeholders who are supporting India," the WHO Director-General said.India is in the midst of a deadly wave of the coronavirus pandemic, with 3,43,144 people testing positive for the virus on Friday, taking the country's caseload to 2,40,46,809. The death toll stands at 2,62,317.India's Covid-19 tally crossed the 10 million mark on December 19 and in under six months it has doubled, surpassing the grim milestone of 20 million cases on May 4.Ghebreyesus pointed out that the emergency-like situation was not restricted to India.“Nepal, Sri Lanka, Vietnam, Cambodia, Thailand and Egypt are just some of the countries that are dealing with spikes in cases and hospitalisations,” he said adding that some countries in the Americas still have high numbers of cases and as a region, the Americas accounted for 40 per cent of all Covid-19 deaths last week.There are also spikes in some countries in Africa. “These countries are in heightened response mode and WHO will continue to provide support in all ways possible,” he said.Noting that Covid-19 has already cost more than 3.3 million lives across the world, Ghebreyesus said, "We’re on track for the second year of this pandemic to be far more deadly than the first.”He lamented that vaccine supply remains a key challenge and that saving lives and livelihoods with a combination of public health measures and vaccination – not one or the other - is the only way out of the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/indias-covid-19-situation-hugely-concerning-who-chief-101621037244560.html
15-05-2021||World||Israel-Palestine conflict: Attacks rise, wounds deepen||Israel faced a widening conflict on Friday, as deadly violence escalated across the West Bank amid a massive aerial bombardment in Gaza and unprecedented unrest among Arabs and Jews inside the country.The West Bank clashes, described as among the most intense since the second intifada that began in 2000, left 10 people dead from Israeli fire, the Palestinian health ministry said, as overall fatalities from strikes on Gaza rose to 122.Palestinian armed groups in the enclave have launched more than 1,800 rockets at Israel since Monday, killing nine people, with sirens wailing across the country throughout the week.The Israeli army said its overnight assault on Gaza involved fighter jets and tanks hitting a Hamas tunnel network dug under civilian areas.The bombardment saw huge fireballs turn the night sky orange. Towers and homes were levelled, while rockets tore through the skies towards Israel.Gazan families sought shelter at a school, fearing another barrage. “All the children are afraid and we are afraid for the children,” said Kamal al-Haddad, who fled with his family to a UN-backed school in Gaza City. Umm Raed al-Baghdadi, who also fled her home, said Gazans “who have been in war since childhood... cannot bear it anymore”.Israeli soldiers massed on the edge of the blockaded territory, but the army’s overnight statement that a ground invasion had commenced proved false.The Gaza death toll includes 31 children, and 900 were injured, authorities said, while the Israeli fatalities count one child and one soldier.The UN said its Security Council would meet on Sunday to address Gaza, while China accused the US of “ignoring the suffering” of Muslims, after Washington stopped the council from meeting on Friday.Israel said hundreds of the rockets fired towards its territory, including Jerusalem and Tel Aviv, had been intercepted.In a late development, a Lebanese protester who was hit when Israeli troops fired shots at the Lebanon-Israel border, succumbed to his wounds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/israelpalestine-conflict-attacks-rise-wounds-deepen-101621036469603.html
15-05-2021||World||Neera Tanden hired as Biden adviser after budget nomination scuttled||President Joe Biden has appointed longtime Democratic policy aide Neera Tanden as a senior White House adviser after her earlier nomination for budget director was scuttled by Senate opposition.Tanden’s role will include planning for potential health policy changes if Republicans succeed in their efforts to strike down the Affordable Care Act at the Supreme Court, according to a White House official who requested anonymity to discuss the job before it was formally announced. Tanden will also be involved in a review of the US Digital Service, a technology unit that works out of the White House, the official added.The post, which was reported earlier Friday by CNN, is a staff position that does not require Senate confirmation.In early March, she withdrew from consideration to be director of the Office of Management and Budget after it became clear she didn’t have the votes to be confirmed. Senators’ objections to her nomination were rooted in her use of Twitter, where she’d spent years posting comments that were critical of her political opponents, including supporters of independent Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont and as well as prominent Republicans.Several of those targets then had her nomination in their hands.Tanden led the liberal Center for American Progress for nearly a decade after working on the Obama administration’s health-care overhaul.“Neera’s intellect, tenacity, and political savvy will be an asset to the Biden administration as she assumes a new role as senior adviser to the president,” the center’s founder, John Podesta, said in a statement. “While we will be sorry to lose her considerable policy expertise and leadership at the Center for American Progress—an organization which we founded together in 2003 — I am exceptionally thrilled to see her step into a new position serving this White House and the American people.”Before joining Barack Obama’s 2008 campaign, Tanden spent more than a decade working for Bill and Hillary Clinton. She held domestic policy roles in the Clinton White House, eventually becoming an aide to Hillary Clinton and joining the then-first lady’s 2000 campaign for a New York Senate seat. Tanden was legislative director in Clinton’s Senate office and policy director on her 2008 presidential campaign.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/neera-tanden-hired-as-biden-adviser-after-budget-nomination-scuttled-101621031145707.html
15-05-2021||World||Lab-grown virus theory must be taken seriously: Scientists||The origin of the novel coronavirus is still unclear and the theory that it was caused by a laboratory leak needs to be taken seriously until there is a rigorous data-led investigation that proves it wrong, a group of leading scientists said.Covid-19, which emerged in China in late 2019, has killed 3.34 million people, cost the world trillions of dollars in lost income and upended normal life for billions of people."More investigation is still needed to determine the origin of the pandemic," said the 18 scientists, including Ravindra Gupta, a clinical microbiologist at the University of Cambridge, and Jesse Bloom, who studies the evolution of viruses at the Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center."Theories of accidental release from a lab and zoonotic spillover both remain viable," the scientists including David Relman, professor of microbiology at Stanford, said in a letter to the journal Science.The authors of the letter said the World Health Organization's investigation into the origins of the virus had not made a "balanced consideration" of the theory that it may have come from a laboratory incident.In its final report, written jointly with Chinese scientists, a WHO-led team that spent four weeks in and around Wuhan in January and February said the virus had probably been transmitted from bats to humans through another animal, and that a lab leak was "extremely unlikely" as a cause.But there are myriad different ideas about the origin of the virus including a series of conspiracy theories."We must take hypotheses about both natural and laboratory spillovers seriously until we have sufficient data," the scientists said, adding that an intellectually rigorous and dispassionate investigation needed to take place."In this time of unfortunate anti-Asian sentiment in some countries, we note that at the beginning of the pandemic, it was Chinese doctors, scientists, journalists, and citizens who shared with the world crucial information about the spread of the virus—often at great personal cost."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/labgrown-virus-theory-must-be-taken-seriously-scientists-101621028505097.html
15-05-2021||India||Bengal Guv Dhankhar gets emotional, wipes tears, after meeting victims of post-poll violence||West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar became emotional and could be seen wiping his tears after meeting some of the alleged victims of post-poll violence at Nandigram in East Midnapore. The Governor’s visit to one of the most high-profile assembly constituencies where a pitched poll-battle was fought between chief minister Mamata Banerjee and her protégé-turned-adversary Suvendu Adhikari triggered a political slugfest between the TMC and the BJP. “Unimaginable post poll violence @MamataOfficial Terrified people with difficulty and fear @WBPolice and reprisals at hands of ruling party workers narrate indescribable woes of horror. Appeal CM to take urgent steps to restore their confidence in the worst post-poll violence,” he tweeted. Dhankhar alleged that the violence was being sponsored, organised and condoned by the state. The Governor visited some of the villages, sometimes on battery-driven rickshaw and sometimes on a motorcycle. He interacted with villagers. Some women could be seen wailing in front of him. Dhankhar could also be seen wiping his eyes more than once. “The state is passing through a very severe crisis of Covid-19 and unprecedented post-poll violence that is retributive and targeted. I have never heard of such violence. I would appeal to the chief minister. It is high time that she takes note of it. We are sitting on a volcano,” he said while adding that lakhs of people had to abandon their homes in West Bengal and take shelter outside the state. On Friday, Dhankhar had visited Assam’s Dhubri district and interacted with people who fled from their homes in Bengal following post-poll violence allegedly perpetrated by Trinamool Congress (TMC) workers. “The governor interacted with the affected people for nearly an hour and inquired about their condition. At present we have 176 people at Ranpagli (relief camp) and nearly 30 more at another camp in the district. While some have returned to Bengal, these people are afraid to go back as their houses had been allegedly burnt. We are providing them food and other basic necessities. They can stay in Assam as long as they desire. If they wish to go back we will facilitate their return,” Anand Mishra, superintendent of police of Dhubri had said on Friday. The ruling TMC however said that the Governor’s visit was motivated as he only visited the house of BJP workers. “He (Dhankhar) had demeaned the Governor’s chair by giving a call for change ahead of the assembly elections. The BJP lost because the people discarded them. Now he is moving around like an unsatisfied spirit and trying to disturb the peace,” said Kunal Ghosh, TMC spokesperson. The TMC supremo’s chief election agent at Nandigram Sk Sufiyan alleged that the helipad where the Governor’s chopper landed was built by the BJP during elections. The Governor went to Nandigram in a BSF chopper. While the BSF refused to comment, senior police officials said that the helipad was already there and was built during the elections. “At least 24 BJP workers and supporters have been killed so far in poll related violence. The BJP’s state headquarters have received more than 17,000 complaints from its workers and supporters of TMC’s torture and atrocities. BJP workers are not being able to return home as they are scared. Fresh violence was triggered in the villages where the team of ministry of home affairs visited to take stock of violence. The state should take care of homeless people,” said Samik Bhattacharya, BJP spokesperson in West Bengal.He also said that the Governor cried because he could not take the pain. “Anyone who sees such pain would cry,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-guv-dhankhar-gets-emotional-wipes-tears-after-meeting-victims-of-post-poll-violence-101621103345019.html
15-05-2021||India||5 dead, 11 rescued after slabs of building collapse in Maharashtra||Five persons including three women were killed after slabs of an illegal residential building in Ulhasnagar township in Thane district of Maharashtra collapsed on Saturday, officials said.Eleven others were rescued.The body of Sandhya Dodwal, 45, was recovered from the debris late at night, said Santosh Kadam, chief of the regional disaster management cell, Thane Municipal Corporation.The incident took place at ground-plus-four-storey "Manorama" building located in camp no 1 around 1.40 pm.A slab on the fourth floor came crashing down on other slabs which all landed on the ground floor, trapping people in the process, Kadam said.A team of NDRF personnel joined in the rescue operations.Local firemen rushed to the scene and rescued 11 residents who were taken to a local hospital.The deceased were identified as Monty Milind Parshe (12), Aishwaraya Harish Dodwal (23), Harish Dodwal (40), Savitri Parshe (60) and Sandhya Dodwal (45).Ulhasnagar Corporation PRO Yuvraj Badhane said the building was an illegal structure constructed in 1994. It had nine tenements and seven shops on the ground floor.Speaking to reporters at the scene, Kalyan MP Srikant Shinde said kin of the deceased will be paid a compensation of ₹5 lakh each.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5-dead-11-rescued-after-slabs-of-building-collapse-in-maharashtra-101621102337292.html
15-05-2021||India||Sex workers, jail-inmates among likely ‘super-spreaders’ to be vaccinated by Bengal govt||The West Bengal government has identified 10 target groups, including sex workers, jail inmates, hawkers and transport workers who could be Covid-19 ‘super-spreaders’ and will be vaccinated to check the spread of the virus in the state. The groups include Covid-19 volunteers, jail inmates, retail sellers in markets, hawkers, sex workers and transgenders, lawyers and court staff, journalists, transport workers, dealers of essential goods, and government employees including teachers who were not vaccinated during the assembly elections. “As vaccines are in short supply, the state executive committee of the disaster management authority in a meeting held on Saturday has decided to divide vaccination into two streams,” said a senior official of the state health department. One would be the general group (people at large) whose vaccination would be taken care of by the health department, while the other would be the target groups --- super-spreaders, exposed to public mingling and those facing the public. “Vaccination for the target groups, which comprise endangered as well as potential spreaders, would be handled by various departments of the state government. The departments will create a database of the target groups and also arrange sites for vaccination,” said a senior official. Till date the state has given around 1.26 crore doses of which 37.17 lakh are second doses of the vaccine. West Bengal has already vaccinated 7,583 transport workers, journalists and hawkers till date since vaccination for the age group of 18-44 years began in the state earlier this week. The daily count of Covid-19 cases has shot up exponentially in West Bengal since March this year. Experts have blamed it on the rampant violations of Covid-19 protocols at the countless election rallies held in the run-up to the assembly elections that ended on April 29. On May 15, the state registered 19,511 new cases up from 812 fresh cases reported on March 27, when the eight phase assembly polls kicked off. The state now has 131,948 active cases. At least 144 people died in the last 24 hours, according to official data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sex-workers-jail-inmates-among-likely-super-spreaders-to-be-vaccinated-by-bengal-govt-101621102385294.html
15-05-2021||India||150 ventilators under PM-Cares fund arrive at Delhi centre, all functioning||Around 150 GPS-enabled ventilators provided under the PM Cares Trust Fund have started functioning at Delhi's Sardar Patel Covid Centre. The Covid care centre, run by the Delhi government and the Indo-Tibetan Border Police, started its operation on April 26, as the Capital witnessed the peak of the second wave of the pandemic.The request for 150 ventilators on a loan basis for a period of six months for the critical patients at the Covid care centre was raised by ITBP DG, SS Deswal.Since the outbreak of the pandemic in April 2020, the Centre has been procuring medical devices including ventilators, which have been distributed among states and Union territories.Also Read: Govt says media reports on 'Make in India' ventilators in Aurangabad not working 'baseless, incorrect'Amid reports of ventilators procured by the Centre not working properly, the Centre has recently clarified that when the pandemic began last year, ventilators were available in a very limited number in government hospitals."Very limited manufacturing of ventilators was taking place in the country and most of the suppliers abroad were not in a position to make supplies of ventilators in large quantities to India. That is when the local manufacturers were encouraged to produce “Make in India" Ventilators to address the huge projected demand of the country and orders placed on them. Many of them were first time manufacturers of the ventilators," the Centre said in a statement.The Centre also clarified that detailed instructions and guidelines have been issued to all ventilator users regarding proper usage and maintenance of the ventilators.On May 9, the Union health ministry wrote to states and Union territories informing them about the helpline numbers of the manufacturers. State-wise WhatsApp groups have also been created with nodal officers of the states concerned, the representative of the hospitals and technical teams of the manufacturers so that they can coordinate if any technical issue is faced.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/150-ventilators-under-pm-cares-fund-arrive-at-delhi-centre-all-functioning-101621098989768.html
15-05-2021||India||Aadhaar not mandatory for Covid-19 treatment and vaccine: Centre||No one shall be denied a vaccine, medicines, hospitalisation or treatment for want of an Aadhaar number, the Unique Identification Authority of India (UIDAI), the statutory authority that issues 12-digit unique identification numbers called ‘Aadhaar’ to Indian residents, said on Saturday.“Aadhaar should not be misused as an excuse for denial of any essential service. There is a well-established exception handling mechanism (EHM) for Aadhaar and it should be followed to ensure delivery of benefits and services in the absence of Aadhaar. If a resident does not possess Aadhaar for some or the other reason, she/he must not be denied essential services as per the Aadhaar Act,” the authority said in a statement. UIDAI issued the statement after a section of media reported that vaccination and few other essential services such as hospitalisation were being denied to people for want of Aadhaar. An identification (ID) document is, however, required for getting the Covid-19 vaccine. According to the ‘Aarogya Setu’ app, people can register themselves for vaccination by using one of the seven IDs – Aadhaar number, driving licence, permanent account number (PAN), passport, pension passbook, NPR smart card and voter’s ID. In the pandemic situation, no one shall be denied any service or benefit for want of an Aadhaar number, the statement said. “If one does not have Aadhaar or if Aadhaar online verification is not successful due to some reason, the concerned agency or department has to provide the service as per Section 7 of Aadhaar Act, 2016 and the Cabinet Secretariat OM dated 19th Dec 2017,” it said.While Section 7 ensures that there is no exclusion and no denials of essential services, the Cabinet Secretariat in 2017 clarified that the use of alternate means of identification is allowed for extending benefits and essential services to such Indian residents who do not possess Aadhaar or whose Aadhaar authentication is not successful. UIDAI said Aadhaar is meant to bring transparency and accountability in public service deliveries through effective use of technology, but there are exceptions. It said in case of any such denial, the matter should be brought to the knowledge of the higher authorities of concerned department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aadhaar-not-mandatory-for-covid-19-treatment-and-vaccine-centre-101621099624651.html
15-05-2021||India||Covid patients on home care should ditch Remdesivir. AIIMS doctors explain||Covid-19 patients on home care should not take Remdesivir medication and they should get admitted at a hospital if the oxygen level drops below 94, AIIMS doctors advised on Saturday.The doctors were addressing a webinar on 'Medication and Care in Home Isolation' for Covid-19 patients."Remdesivir should never be taken at home. Positive attitude and regular exercise are a must for patients in home isolation, said Dr Neeraj Nishchal of All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS).Dr Manish, also from AIIMS, said if the oxygen level goes below 94, patients should be admitted, adding that while checking oxygen level, age of the patient and other chronic diseases should be kept in mind.Dr Neeraj, however, said that 80 per cent of infected patients experience very mild symptoms and suggested a repeat RT-PCR rest if the first test report comes negative."If the RT-PCR test comes out to be negative, but symptoms are present, it is recommended to go for another test. Whether hospitalization is required is to be decided based on the intensity of the disease,” he said.The doctors also advised that medications must be taken in the proper quantity and at the right time."Knowing about the medicine is not enough. Patients should also know how and when they are to be taken, only then would it prove to be beneficial,” said Dr Neeraj.The decision of home isolation for patients above 60 years and with comorbidities like hypertension, diabetes, heart disease, chronic ailments related to kidneys and lungs, should be taken only after consulting doctors, they said.The commonly observed symptoms among Covid-19 patients are fever, dry cough, tiredness and loss of taste or smell. Irritation in throat, headache, body ache, diarrhoea, rash on skin and redness in eyes are also observed in rare cases.“If you observe any of these symptoms, you should immediately isolate yourself from others,” Dr Neeraj said.Suggesting measures Covid-19 patients need to take to manage the infection, the doctors said sanitisation, cleanliness, use of medical grade masks and taking medicines on time are essential.“We should plan for daily essentials and prepare a list of contact numbers for health-related information, health workers, hotlines, etc. Along with this, contact numbers of friends, other family members and neighbours should also be kept handy for emergency situations. Proper care and planning should be done also for the children in the family,” Dr Neeraj said.Doctors said that mild and asymptomatic patients should be kept in home isolation. Such patients should take utmost care to keep safe distance from other family members, especially children.It was advised that positive patients should always wear three-layered masks which should be discarded after proper sanitization every eight hours.“Patient and caregiver both should wear N-95 masks while interacting with each other,” the doctor said.The AIIMS doctors also advised that pulse oximeters should be used to monitor oxygen levels in the body, very carefully.“Artificial nails or nail polish should be removed before use and the patient's hand should be warmed if it is cold. Take rest for at least five minutes before testing. If the observation is constant for five seconds, the figure indicates oxygen level in your body,” doctors said.Informing about the use of Ivermectin and Paracetamol, Dr Manish said that their use depends on the immunity level and other patient-specific conditions so one should take medicines only as prescribed by the doctors.While informing about the medicines taken to fight COVID-19, he said, many patients insist on the use of Azithromycin, but the guidelines clearly discourage the use of these tablets.“Same instructions are given about Revidox. It is not recommended to use Revidox in home isolation,” said the doctor.During the discussion, both experts clearly said that no medication should be taken during home isolation without consulting doctors. PTI AG SMN SMN||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-patients-on-home-care-should-ditch-remdesivir-aiims-doctors-explain-101621089426673.html
15-05-2021||India||IAF set to complete 1,000 sorties in Covid-19 relief||The Indian Air Force, which is at the forefront of the country’s fight against the pandemic, is set to complete 1,000 sorties in Covid-19 relief, officials familiar with the development said on Saturday. It has so far carried out more than 900 international and global sorties to strengthen the country’s efforts for Covid-19 relief. “The IAF has flown 778 sorties domestic sorties amounting to 1,147 flying hours. Also, it has undertaken 130 sorties internationally amounting to 633 flying hours,” an IAF official said. The IAF has deployed a variety of aircraft for Covid-19 relief including C-17 Globemaster III, IL-76s, C-130J Super Hercules special operations aircraft, An-32 transport planes, Dornier aircraft and helicopters. The armed forces have been at the forefront of the fight against the deadly disease, and have helped meet the exploding demand for oxygen, set up dedicated Covid-19 hospitals and opened doors of military hospitals to civilians. IAF chief Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria has ordered “24x7 readiness” of the air force’s entire heavy-lift fleet and substantial numbers of the medium-lift fleet to operate in a hub and spoke model for Covid-related duties. The IAF has airlifted critical stores from several countries including Singapore, Thailand, the United Kingdom, Germany, Belgium, Australia, Indonesia and Israel. Domestic shuttles have covered Jamnagar, Bhopal, Chandigarh, Panagarh, Indore, Ranchi, Agra, Jodhpur, Begumpet, Bhubaneswar, Pune, Surat, Raipur, Udaipur, Mumbai, Lucknow, Nagpur, Gwalior, Vijayawada, Baroda, Dimapur and Hindan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iaf-set-to-complete-1-000-sorties-in-covid-19-relief-101621097524545.html
15-05-2021||India||'Everyone will find their match': Harsh Vardhan on Biocon chief's vaccine-marriage humour||Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan on Saturday said Indians may soon be spoilt for choice when it comes to vaccines against Covid-19 as several vaccine manufacturers are on board to augment the supply and foreign candidates are also entering the scene. The minister's assertion comes as a reply to Biocon Chief Kiran Mazumdar-Shaw's tweet in which she compared India's vaccine situation with that of an arranged marriage, in a light-hearted jibe.The vaccine situation in India is like arranged marriage. First u r not ready, then u dont like any, then u dont get any!! Those who got are unhappy thinking may be the other one would have been better. Those who did not get any are willing to get any one😅Centre pins hopes on 5 Covid vaccines apart from Covishield, Covaxin, SputnikThe Biocon chief has been sceptical about India's vaccination drive. On Saturday, Kiran Mazumdar-Shaw said like in an arranged marriage, in India's vaccine situation too, first "you are not ready, then you don't like any, then you don't get any". Like in an arranged marriage, those who got are unhappy thinking maybe the other one would have been better and those who did not get any are willing to get anyone, she said.Rest assured Ms @kiranshaw Ji, there shall be no shortage for each to find their perfect match!With manufacturers onboard to augment supply, fast-tracked entry of foreign ones & new candidates holding potential entering the fray, one may be left cherry picking !@HardeepSPuri https://t.co/wIIgf4iKRMIn a light-hearted jibe, Shaw took on the current shortage of vaccines in the country, which forced many states to temporarily suspend the vaccination of people in the age group of 18 to 44 years.Union minister Harsh Vardhan was not the only one to reply to the Biocon chief in a similar vein. Union minister Hardeep Singh Puri too said, "Not all marriages begin with love at first sight".Continuing the light-hearted banter, Harsh Vardhan said that there in this vaccine-marriage market, everyone will find their perfect match as several manufacturers are coming on board to augment the supply, while the entry of foreign manufacturers is being fast-tracked and then there are some new potential candidates. One may be left cherry-picking, the minister said.Though the vaccination drive in India began with two vaccines — Covishield and Covaxin — initially the beneficiaries did not have a choice between the two. Frontline workers were administered free doses according to availability in the first two months. As the vaccination drive is proceeding to the next steps, beneficiaries can choose hospitals with either Covaxin and Covishield from Cowin.According to government's estimate, over 200 crore doses of Covid-19 vaccines will be available in India before December 2021, which includes 75 crore doses of Covishield, 55 crore of Covaxin, 30 crore Bio E Sub unit vaccine, five crore Zydus Cadila DNA vaccine, 20 crore Serum Institute's Covavax, 10 crore Bharat Biotech's nasal vaccine, six crore Gennova mRNA vaccine and 15.6 crore Sputnik vaccine. Sputnik will be available in the market from next week, the ministry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rest-assured-kiran-shaw-ji-harsh-vardhan-reply-to-biocon-chief-s-vaccine-marriage-jibe-101621093110679.html
15-05-2021||India||GST Council to meet after 7 months, tax waivers on healthcare likely||The Goods and Services Tax (GST) Council will meet for the first time in seven months on May 28, to discuss key issues such as compensation to states and tax waivers on various medicines, medical devices, and health services amid the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic, two officials said.The office of finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Saturday tweeted the date and timing of the meeting after several states, including Punjab and West Bengal raised the issue of inordinate delay in convening its meeting, the officials aware of the development said requesting anonymity.“Smt @nsitharaman will chair the 43rd GST Council meeting via video conferencing at 11 am in New Delhi on 28th May 2021. The meeting will be attended by MOS Shri @ianuragthakur besides Finance Ministers of States & UTs and senior officers from Union Government & States,” a tweet from the FM’s office said.The GST Council is required to meet once in every quarter. Its meetings are convened by the Union finance ministry as the council is chaired by the Union finance minister. Finance ministers of states and Union territories (UTs) are members of the council, the apex federal body on indirect tax matters. The last time the council had met on October 5, 2020 (the 42nd meeting) to resolve the issue of compensating states for their revenue shortfall in 2020-21. That meeting was extended to the next week on October 12 for finalising a centralised borrowing mechanism to meet the revenue shortfall. After that the council did not meet for months.Earlier this week, West Bengal finance minister Amit Mitra wrote to Sitharaman asking her to convene the GST Council meeting immediately as states were expecting an alarming shortfall in GST compensation revenue because of the Covid-19 pandemic. “As per GoI [Government of India] projection, the shortfall was expected to be to the tune of ₹1,56,164 crores in 2021-22 without taking into consideration the impact of Covid Wave-2,” Mitra said in the letter to FM. HT reported it on May 14.Last week, Punjab finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal asked the Union finance minister to urgently convene a meeting of the council for a “serious mid-term correction” on tax issues. In his letter Badal said, “...failure to hold any constructive consultation with states for so long in such critical times makes me wonder whether Centre has usurped all the powers of states putting the spirit of cooperative federalism...” HT reported it on May 6.Besides full compensation to states, many members want GST waiver on several critical items necessary for people at the time of the pandemic, including vaccines, key medicines and healthcare services. These matters could be discussed in the council, the officials mentioned above said. Ranjeet Mahtani, partner at consultancy firm Dhruva Advisors said the council needs to resolve other pressing issues such as inverted duty structure on certain products. “This has lingered as an issue for some time now,” he said. According to him, there is a need to rationalise GST rates and reduce number of tax slabs by merging the 12% and 18% slabs into one revenue-neutral rate. He said, compensation is also a key issue for states. At the time of introducing the new indirect tax regime in July 2017, the GST law assured states a 14% increase in their annual revenue for five years (up to 2022), and assured them that their revenue shortfall would be made good through the compensation cess levied on luxury goods and sin products such as liquor, cigarettes, aerated water, automobiles, coal and tobacco.The issue of compensating states for their revenue losses due to a 68-day lockdown and because of the first wave of Covid-19 came up in the previous fiscal year when GST revenues plunged and there was a gap of over ₹1.10 lakh crore in the collection of compensation cess. The matter was resolved after the Centre agreed to raise back-to-back loans on behalf of states and compensated them for their shortfall in revenue. It was decided that the loan would be repaid from the compensation cess revenue collected in future.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gst-council-to-meet-after-7-months-tax-waivers-on-healthcare-likely-101621091284363.html
15-05-2021||India||Covid-19 challenge will test our good qualities: Mohan Bhagwat||Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat on Saturday said both the government and the people misread the situation after the first wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, which resulted in complacency leading to the present situation. The country now needs to face the problems with a positive frame of mind and help in whatever capacity they can, he said. Urging people not to give up, he said just as Britain did not lose courage during World War II and withstood the adverse conditions to emerge victorious after defeating its enemy, India too should not lose hope, and view the pandemic as a challenge to be overcome. To underscore the need to fight the challenge with a positive frame of mind, he referred to an inscription on former British premier, Winston Churchill’s seat that read: “Please understand there is no depression in this house and we are not interested in the possibilities of defeat. They do not exist.” Delivering a lecture online, Bhagwat said, “Some people have died… they should not have died this way, untimely. But those who have passed away are in a way free and they don’t have to face it anymore… but we have to. We have to keep ourselves and our people safe and therefore we don’t need negativism. We are not going to allow ourselves to feel negative,” he said. The lecture is part of a ‘positivity unlimited’ series that the RSS has initiated with an aim to help people overcome difficulties during the second wave that has ravaged the country. There has been severe criticism of the government in failing to prepare for the second wave and for deficiencies in meeting the demand for health care. Both the RSS and its political arm, the Bharatiya Janata Party are pushing to shift the narrative towards “positivity and proactive approach”. “If we get tired and give up, then we will be like the rat who gives up in front of a snake. We cannot let this happen. There is as much hope as there is unhappiness. In such a situation many wrongdoings happen, but a lot of people are doing good deeds, they are helping people in whatever capacity they can,” he said. Amid criticism that the government dropped the ball on Covid-19 management, Bhagwat said now that scientists have cautioned about a third wave, arrangements should be made so that the country is well-prepared. “At the time of Samudra Manthan many things came up, but efforts were not stopped till the Amrit was found. We have to keep making efforts to win over this challenge,” he said. Urging people not to feel depressed or disillusioned he said, to hear about the situation being bad every day should not demoralise us. He said the focus should be on helping people find beds in hospital, oxygen and other needs. He also spoke about ensuing that students do not miss out on acquiring knowledge. “We have to worry about those who depend on daily wages; we should ensure that they do not go hungry. We should look around us and see what the problems are and help those in need,” he said, adding that the country will also need to start making arrangements to see how we can face the economic problems that will arise. “The challenge will test our good qualities...It is an exam of our patience. Success is not final, failure is not fatal. The courage to continue is the only thing that matters. We have to have the courage to continue,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-challenge-will-test-our-good-qualities-mohan-bhagwat-101621088164198.html
15-05-2021||India||Delhi likely to receive thunderstorm, rain, forecasts IMD||Some parts of Delhi are likely to receive thunderstorm with light to moderate intensity rain are likely on Saturday, according to the officials from India Meteorological Department. The change in weather will be witnessed in isolated places of northeast Delhi, IMD officials said.In a mild shift from the heat, the minimum temperature in Delhi was recorded at 23 degree celsius while the maximum temperature was recorded at a high og 39.3 degree celsius, IMD said. The sky is likely to remain partly cloudy on Sunday and the minimum and maximum temperature are likely to hover around 24 and 41 degrees Celsius, respectively.The weather department recorded 35 per cent relative humidity at 5.30 pm.Earlier this week on Thursday, Delhi woke up to light rain. As per IMD's forecast, thunderstorm with light to moderate intensity rain and wind speed occured over isolated places of Delhi and adjoining areas including Noida, Meerut Rohtak, Panipat and few other places.The IMD has also predicted a thunderstorm with light to moderate intensity rain with a wind speed of 20-40 kmph at many places over Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, in addition to the national capital."Thunderstorm with light to moderate intensity rain with wind speed 20-40 kmph would occur over many places of entire Delhi, Palwal, Hodal, Manesar, Gurugram, Faridabad, Tizara, (Haryana), Bulandshahar, Gulothi, Siyana, Jattari, Khurza, Atrauli, Aligarh, Sadabad, Khair, Noida, Gr. Noida, Ghaziabad, Pilkhua, Hapur, (Uttar Pradesh) and adjoining areas during next 2 hours," IMD tweeted.Earlier in the morning, IMD also predicted light to moderate intensity rains over Haryana, Rajasthan and its adjoining areas in the next two hours."Light to moderate intensity rain with wind speed 20-40 kmph would occur over Viratnagar, Kotputly, Alwar, Jhunjunu, Pilani, Rajghar, Laxmangarh, Bayana (Rajasthan), Narnaul, Tizara, Mahendergarh (Haryana) and adjoining areas during next 2 hours", tweeted IMD.India Meteorological Department (IMD) has been issuing operational forecasts for the date of monsoon onset over Kerala from 2005 onwards. An indigenously developed state-of-the-art statistical model with a model error of - 4 days is used for this purpose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-likely-to-receive-thunderstorm-rain-forecasts-imd-101621083862659.html
15-05-2021||India||Aadhaar not mandatory for any Covid-related service, clarifies UIDAI||Aadhaar card is not mandatory for any Covid-related service, the Unique Identification Authority of India clarified on Saturday amid misleading reports that claimes that the Aadhaar card is mandatory for vaccines and hospitalisation.“If one does not have Aadhaar or if Aadhaar online verification is not successful due to some reason, the concerned agency or department has to provide the service as per Section 7 of Aadhaar Act, 2016 and the Cabinet Secretariat OM dated 19th Dec 2017,” the UIDAI said issuing a statement.Aadhaar card is one of the photo-identity cards required for vaccine registration. But there are several other documents that can be used if one does not have an Aadhaar card. PAN card, driving licence, government's health insurance card, pension document are also considered valid for vaccine registration.Download Aadhaar card online in 10 easy steps. Here's a complete guideThe health ministry has also come up with an SOP on the vaccination of those who may not have any prescribed identity cards including the Aadhaar card.Issuing a statement, the UIDAI said Aadhar should not be misused as an excuse for the denial of any essential service. "There is a well-established exception handling mechanism (EHM) for Aadhaar and it should be followed to ensure delivery of benefits and services in the absence of Aadhaar. If a resident does not possess Aadhaar for some of the other reason, s/he must not be denied essential services as per Aadhaar Act," the statement said.The order is just a reiteration of UIDAI's existing regulations. In a circular dated October 24, 2017, the authorities said that benefits or services should not be denied for want of Aadhaar. In Section 7 of the Aadhaar Act, it is mentioned that until a person is assigned an Aadhaar number, he/she cannot be denied ration or pension or such other entitlements for want of Aadhaar and the concerned department should verify the identity of the person using alternate means of identification as per the relevant notification.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aadhaar-not-mandatory-for-any-covid-related-service-clarifies-uidai-101621085522470.html
15-05-2021||India||Government and public - both dropped guard after first Covid-19 wave: RSS||Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat on Saturday said that both the government as well as the public dropped their guards after the first wave of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), leading to the current situation in India. The RSS Sarsanghchalak, however, urged citizens to stay united and work as a team, instead of pointing fingers at each other.RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat, while addressing a lecture series called 'Positivity Unlimited', said, "We are facing this situation because, whether it was the government, administration or public, everyone dropped their guard after the first wave despite indications from doctors.”Mohan Bhagwat highlighted the fact that a potential third wave of Covid-19 is on its way and said that people should not be scared. “We have to stay positive and take precautions to keep ourselves Covid negative in the present situation,” news agency PTI quoted him as saying.The RSS chief compared the present situation in India to that of England during World War II. Even when all hope was seemingly lost, Bhagwat said, a quote on the desk of the then British prime minister Winston Churchill read, "There is no pessimism in this office. We are not interested in the possibilities of defeat. They don't exist".Similarly, Mohan Bhagwat said, in this current situation of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic in the country, “We can’t give up on courage. We need to also have a steely resolve.”(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/government-and-public-both-dropped-guard-after-first-covid-19-wave-rss-101621084745187.html
15-05-2021||India||18 elephants in Assam may have been killed by a lightning strike: Experts||After a thorough examination of the carcasses of 18 elephants found dead in a forest in Assam's Nagaon district, and circumstantial evidence, a team of experts suggested that the jumbos could have been killed by a lightning strike, an official release said on Saturday.However, the samples collected by the team are being examined for micro-biological and toxicological aspects in the laboratory."This freak natural incident is also being corroborated by meteorological reports", the release said. A final report would be released only after all the examinations have been completed, it said.The incident happened on Wednesday night at a hill in the Kundoli proposed reserve forest in the Kathiatoli range.It was found that carcasses were lying in two groups. Fourteen adult elephants were found atop the hill, and another four bodies were found scattered on the foothills on Thursday. Detailed examination of the carcasses was carried out while viscera and other samples were collected for forensic investigations. Veterinary experts from the College of Veterinary Science here, Animal Husbandry and Veterinary Department, District Veterinary Officer, doctors from the Assam State Zoo, and other wildlife organisations were engaged in conducting post-mortem examinations and collection of samples.Chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma had expressed concern over the incident and asked Environment and Forest Minister Parimal Suklabaidya to visit the spot to inquire into the matter. Suklabaidya on Friday ordered an inquiry into the matter and a committee, headed by Deputy Conservator of Forest KK Deori, was instituted.The committee was directed to submit a preliminary report within three days and a detailed investigation report within 15 days. The minister, accompanied by senior officials of the department, a team of veterinarians, and wildlife experts, had visited the spot on Friday to take stock of the situation. After assessing the situation with top forest officials, Suklabaidya had also said that preliminary investigation revealed that the pachyderms have died probably due to lightning as there were no visible signs of struggle.The Forest Range Officer of Kathiatoli Range of Nagaon Forest division had received information on Thursday from the Assistant Manager of Topajuri Tea Estate about four elephant carcasses. A team of forest officials along with local villagers began a search of the Konduli Reserve forest and during the operation, four carcasses were found on the Bamuni foothill, while 14 elephants were found dead, around one kilometer away, the release added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/18-elephants-in-assam-may-have-been-killed-by-a-lightning-strike-experts-101621083371979.html
15-05-2021||India||Will explore if Covaxin can be made by private institutions too: Centre||As Bharat Biotech's Covaxin will now be manufactured by two public sector undertakings, the Centre on Saturday said that private firms can also come forward to give a leg up in India's vaccine production. Talks are on with others, Niti Aayog (health) member Dr VK Paul said adding that such decision of technology and knowledge transfer entails a long process.Bharat Biotech's Covaxin will now be produced by Hyderabad's Indian Immunologicals Limited, Uttar Pradesh's Bharat Immunologicals and Biologicals Corporation and Mumbai's Haffkine Institute for Training, Research and Testing. Once they start production, 13 crore doses of Covaxin will be produced in a month, according to the government's estimate. Out of these 13 crore doses, Bharat Biotech will produce 10 crore, while the three firms will produce one crore doses each.Misuse of steroids major cause behind mucormycosis infection: AIIMS chief"These tie-ups are not done over a week. That's not how complex technologies are transferred. There was an assessment of whether the vaccine can be made there. Following that there was training, fund allocation and then there was an agreement to formalise the entire arrangement," Dr Paul said.Covaxin can't be made anywhere, Dr Paul said explaining that the vaccine-making process deals with live virus. "This can be done only in very sophisticated, biological safety level 3 labs so that the virus can not affect the scientists. A garment factory can not start producing the vaccine from tomorrow," Dr Paul said.Any narrative that discourages the country's scientific institutions should not be indulged, Dr Paul said asserting that the Central government shares a partnership with all institutions engaged in vaccine making. "The two vaccine makers consider us as partners. They have honoured their contracts and made vaccines for the country."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-explore-if-covaxin-can-be-made-by-private-institutions-too-centre-101621083634192.html
15-05-2021||India||Increase Covid-19 testing, report infection figures accurately, says PM Modi||New Delhi: Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday called for an increase in Covid-19 testing and asked states to report their infection figures accurately and transparently as he chaired a meeting on the pandemic situation in the country. He directed officials to come up with a distribution plan for ensuring oxygen and power supply to rural areas as the cases have surged in villages as well.“The Prime Minister instructed that testing needs to be scaled up further, with use of both RT-PCR [reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction] and Rapid Tests, especially in areas with high test positivity rates,” a statement issued after the meeting said.Officials briefed PM Modi at the meeting and told him the testing has gone up rapidly in the country, from around five million per week in early March to over 10 million now. They also informed him about the gradual decrease in test positivity and increase in recovery rate. The cases that had gone over 40,00,00 daily are now coming down, Modi was told.PM Modi also called for augmenting healthcare resources in rural areas to focus on door-to-door testing and surveillance. “He also spoke about empowering ASHA [Accredited Social Health Activist] & Anganwadi workers with all necessary tools. PM [Prime Minister] asked for guidelines to be made available in easy language along with illustrations for home isolation and treatment in rural areas,” the statement said.On Friday, PM Modi warned about the spread of Covid-19 in rural areas and urged the village panchayats to ensure proper awareness and sanitation.“India’s fight against Covid has been guided throughout by scientists and subject experts and will continue being guided by them,” he said. He called localised containment strategies the need of the hour, especially in states with high positivity rates.The statement said PM Modi took serious note of the news reports about unutilised ventilators in storage units and directed an immediate audit of their installation and operations. Modi instructed officials to conduct training for the proper use of medical devices such as ventilators and oxygen concentrators.Officials gave him a detailed presentation on the state and district level situation of oxygen availability, testing, healthcare infrastructure, and vaccination roadmap.In a tweet, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi separately kept up his attack on the government over its Covid-19 strategy and said its “disastrous vaccine strategy” will ensure a devastating third wave. “It can’t be repeated enough- India needs a proper vaccine strategy!”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/increase-covid-19-testing-report-infection-figures-accurately-says-pmmodi-101621080964055.html
15-05-2021||India||Misuse of steroids major cause behind mucormycosis infection: AIIMS chief||AIIMS director Dr. Randeep Guleria on Saturday warned that cases of mucormycosis infection, commonly known as the 'Black Fungus', are on the rise in the wake of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) among particularly susceptible patients. Misuse of steroids is a major cause behind this infection, he said, adding that patients who are diabetic or Covid-19 positive and are taking steroids have an increased chance of contracting the fungal infection.Also Read: Cases of post-Covid mucormycosis are increasing, says AIIMS chiefTo prevent the mucormycosis infection, misuse of steroids must be stopped, said the director of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in New Delhi. Dr. Guleria added that such secondary infections, which include fungal and bacterial, are causing more mortality in recent days, even as Covid-19 cases keep on increasing. It is thus all the more important to properly follow protocols of infection control practices at hospitals, he said.Where are mucormycosis spores found?Mucormycosis spores are found in soil, air, and even in food, said the AIIMS chief.In a new advisory over black fungus infection, the central government asked people to be extra careful regarding infection protocols since the mucormycosis fungus enters the body through a cut, scrape, burn, or other types of skin trauma when the skin comes in contact with fungal spores in the environment.As such, a few of the conditions in which a Covid-19 patient might find themselves to be at an increased risk of the mucormycosis infection are:1. If they are visiting dusty construction sites without masks.2. If they are not wearing shoes, long trousers, long sleeve shirts, and gloves while handling soil (gardening), moss, or manure.3. If they have experienced prolonged hospital or ICU stay.4. If they are co-morbid, have undergone organ transplant, or are suffering from cancer.5. If they are not maintaining personal hygiene properly in general.Covid-19 patients need to be wary of steroid 'misuse'Dr. Randeep Guleria, AIIMS chief, said that the mucormycosis fungal spores are of low virulence and usually do not cause infection. There were very few cases before Covid-19, but a large number of cases are only being reported in recent times due to the coronavirus disease infection, which affects immunity. Since steroids like dexamethasone also repress the immune system, it is necessary to be extra careful regarding its use, now more so than ever.Also Read: What is Mucormycosis and how deadly is it? Know everything about Black Fungus"Overuse, misuse, and rampant use of steroids in Covid-19 patients cause black fungus, also known as mucormycosis," said Dr. Suresh Kumar, medical director of LNJP hospital in New Delhi.He said that steroid use must be reduced. "If given to patients with oxygen levels over 90, black fungus is a possible side-effect. Early diagnosis is critical. A CT scan of the face would detect this infection, after which antifungal drug amphotericin will be used for treatment," he said."Quite often a patient dies due to black fungus (mucormycosis) instead of Covid-19," Dr. Suresh Kumar added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/misuse-of-steroids-major-cause-behind-mucormycosis-infection-aiims-chief-101621078067509.html
15-05-2021||India||Media report on Gujarat undercounting Covid deaths is ‘inaccurate’, says government||A day after media reports on Gujarat undercounting Covid deaths emerged, the state's additional chief secretary, Pankaj Kumar, told reporters on Saturday that the move of using death certificates to ascertain the number of fatalities suffers from inaccuracies and should be discarded.“There has been a trend where death certificates' figures are being used to ascertain figures of death. Recently such a report published by one of the newspapers where they've utilised analysis to establish suppression of death figures on part of the government,” Kumar said, as quoted by ANI.A Gujarati newspaper published a report on Friday using death certificates issued by state authorities between March 1 and May 10 to claim that the state has witnessed an excess of 61,000 deaths compared to the same time last year. The report was compiled on the basis of data collected from municipal authorities of 33 districts and 8 major cities. This report follows the precedent set by many other Gujarati newspapers which have claimed Covid-19 fatalities were being consistently underreported in the state.The additional chief secretary also said that the media report has ignored that a year-to-year comparison needs to factor in that the death rate goes up every year due to the annual growth of the population. Hence, the entire report should be done away with.“It is also pertinent to note that while doing a comparison on a year to year basis, annual growth of population and the corresponding increase in the number of deaths, usually 5-10%, needs to be factored into which have completely been done away with,” said Kumar.“Therefore, the whole analysis and inferences drawn in the said report suffers from multiple inaccuracies and needs to be discarded,” he added.Highlighting the media reports, the Congress called for an inquiry into the matter, asking the state government to “own up” and take action against officials involved in fudging of Covid data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/media-report-on-gujarat-undercounting-covid-deaths-is-inaccurate-says-government-101621079706813.html
15-05-2021||India||Covid-19: Maharashtra leads list of states where active caseload declined the most in last 15 days||Maharashtra leads the list of states where the number of active cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) has declined the maximum in a 15-day period starting from May 1. Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Gujarat and Telangana are the other states or Union territories which also saw a decline in their respective active caseload.In a tweet on Saturday, the Union ministry of health and family welfare listed five states where the active caseload declined the most since May 1 and another five states where it increased the most in the same period.#IndiaFightsCoronaThe change in active cases for states in the last 24 hoursThe change in number of active cases for states in the last 15 days.#Unite2FightCorona #StaySafe 5/7 pic.twitter.com/ArOlo2wgVDData shared by the ministry showed that Maharashtra, which had 664,683 active cases on May 1, witnessed a decline of 143,000 and currently accounts for 521,683 cases. Uttar Pradesh followed closely, as the active cases in the state fell by 116,968 and stood at 193,815 on Saturday from the 310,783 reported on May 1.Meanwhile, the national capital Delhi reported 99,361 active cases on May 1 which has now reduced to 71,794 cases. The Union health ministry noted that this fall of 27,567 cases is the third highest in the mentioned time period.Gujarat and Telangana, two states which have been reporting a high number of new infections in the second wave, also witnessed a decline in their respective active caseload in the past 15 days. Gujarat’s active caseload was 142,046 on May 1 and fell by 24,673 and currently stands at 117,373. Telangana reported 78,888 active cases and currently has 54,832, a decline of 24.056 cases.Also read | 'Vaccinated or not': Government's scientific advisor has 3 tips against Covid-19Four southern states -- Karnataka, Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh -- along with Odisha saw their active caseload increasing in the last 15 days. Among these states, Karnataka witnessed the maximum spike. The state had 382,710 active cases on May 1 which has now grown to 598,625, an increase of 215,915 cases. Currently it has the maximum number of active cases among all states in India and adds 28 per cent to the national tally.Kerala saw its active caseload grow by 138,476 and currently has 442,550 cases from the 304,074 reported on May 1. Andhra Pradesh witnessed the third highest increase (80,807 cases added) in the 15 days. The state had 122,980 active cases on May 1 and currently has 203,787 cases.Neighbouring Tamil Nadu’s active caseload also swelled significantly by 80,211 cases and currently stands at 195,339 from the 115,128 reported at the beginning of this month. Odisha’s active cases surged by 38,003 cases from the 56,737 the state reported on May 1 to 94,740 on Saturday.Earlier on the day, the Union health ministry also said that India’s active caseload fell by 31,091 cases in the last 24 hours. It currently stands at 3,673,802 and accounts for 15.07 per cent of the country’s overall cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-maharashtra-leads-list-of-states-where-active-caseload-declined-the-most-in-last-15-days-101621078473201.html
15-05-2021||India||Empowering women, empowering lives||Women’s economic empowerment refers to the ability for women to enjoy their rights to control and benefit from resources, assets, income and their own time, as well as the ability to manage risk and improve their economic status and wellbeing. Keeping this in mind, Luke Talwar, director, Turiya Investments is spearheading a project for the upliftment of rural women in the quaint town of Madhya Pradesh.Talwar says, “We have joined hands with a women’s self help group called Van Durga, which supports women farmers who grow and sell a variety of local fruits for end-products.”The group, which has just received considerable funding from Osmium Global, a fund, plans to produce innovative jamun wine. He says, “ We at Turiya investments commit to growing and nurturing socially mature business ideas. This project will not only give impetus to marginalized farmers who lack resources to integrate their produce into the mainstream market, but also come up with a range of innovative end-products.”The project and its stakeholders will help women to procure de-seeding machines, pulping machines and the cold storage unit while teaching and motivating them to produce farm products for the end-use market. “We are trying to ensure that these 10 women are able to manage their time and resources optimally. The raw materials are all ethically sourced bringing value to the end consumer, and manufacturer,” he adds.The 27-year-old promises to scale-up businesses that are ethical, and give social forestry a new lease of life.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/empowering-women-empowering-lives-101621077424965.html
15-05-2021||India||'I plead with you as a scientist': VK Paul on Covishield dose gap controversy||Niti Aayog (health) member VK Paul on Saturday said the decision to extend the gap between the two doses of Covishield to 12 to 16 weeks was an independent decision taken by the scientific body, without any pressure. "I am pleading to all of you with folded hands to put these controversies to rest," Dr Paul said. Countering allegations that the gap between the two doses has been extended to 12 to 16 weeks owing to the scarcity of vaccines in India, Dr Paul said the narrative is saddening."Saying that the decision was taken under some kind of pressure trivialises the matter. Our scientific institutions comprise independent scientists. National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (NTAGI) is a standing committee that guided the country in the past — on rotavirus and several other immunisation programmes. Scientists of this panel deliberate and then come to a consensus," Dr Paul said explaining the rationale behind extending the gap between the two doses to 12 to 16 weeks.Watch: NITI Aayog explains Covishield dose gap increase to 10-12 weekWhen to take Covid-19 vaccine 2nd dose? What to do if once infected? What experts recommendThe government has recently accepted the recommendation of the expert panel and widened the gap between the two doses of Covishield vaccines to 12 to 16 weeks. In January, the recommended gap was four to six weeks, which in April was extended to six to eight weeks. The decision courted criticism as opposition leaders accused the government of creating confusion and covering up the acute shortage of vaccines."Had it really been because of a shortage of vaccines, we could have done it before when the UK did it as extending the gap suits the so-called shortage but at that time we respected scientific findings," Dr Paul said adding that when the UK pushed the second dose of the Covishield vaccine to three months, India's scientific body did not recommend it as there were risks of breakthrough infections."Just a single dose and delayed second dose could make the chance of infection higher. When studies were conducted, the standard protocol was to administer the two doses in a gap of four to six weeks. Somewhere there was a breach in the protocol and there was a delay in administering the second dose. This breach should not have happened, but it happened. After analysis, it was found that delaying the second dose did not make any difference. But that was not considered robust evidence to extend the gap between the doses.," Dr Paul said.So what changed now that the expert panel favoured extending the gap between the doses? Explaining the change of stance, Dr Paul said, "Now that the UK is administering the doses in a gap of three months, lakhs of people have been administered two doses in a gap of three months. This basically means a single dose for three months. So now, we have real-life evidence that transmission of the infection gets stalled when the gap is widened. This is around 60-85 per cent effective in disease protection. Now we got the confidence to implement the gap."He also said such extensive data do not become available in research as the scope remains narrow, but now India's expert group has real-life data.Urging people to not find any other reason behind the scientific decision, he said, "I plead with you as a scientists and as a professional. We must respect our institutions. Not everything is maths in public health. Science is evolving. Scientific knowledge about SARS-CoV-2 is only 1.5 years old. As and when new data emerges, we will see what next we get to learn."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/saddening-vk-paul-on-claims-that-covishield-dose-gap-widened-owing-to-crunch-101621073799487.html
15-05-2021||India||Mucormycosis not new, but present surge is because of Covid, explains AIIMS chief Dr Guleria||AIIMS chief Dr Randeep Guleria on Saturday said the black fungus infection, called mucormycosis, is not any new infection but the number of cases has suddenly increased because of Covid-19 and its treatment. The spores of this fungus are present in the air, in soil and sometimes in food, but its virulence is low. "So wearing the mask is very important, especially if you visit a construction site," Dr Guleria said adding that at AIIMS Delhi there are 23 cases of the infection. Out of these, 20 patients are still infected with Covid-19, he said.Some states are reporting over 400 to 500 cases, Dr Guleria said. Urging hospitals to focus more on infection control, the AIIMS chief said that secondary fungal infection is causing more morbidity and mortality.What is Mucormycosis and how deadly is it? Know everything about Black Fungus"Mucormycosis was present before Covid also. During the 2003 SARS outbreak too, this infection was reported," Dr Guleria said adding that Covid infection, diabetes and the misuse of steroid during the treatment of Covid-19 are responsible for the increase in the infection.During the pre-covid times, this infection was reported only among diabetics with uncontrolled blood pressure level or those who have undergone transplants of chemotherapy, because of immunosuppressive drugs. But because of Covid-19, the infection has become common now, Dr Guleria said.The infection can be of two types — one that affects the face, nose and part of the brain causing loss of eyesight and the other that can infect the lungs. Listing out the symptoms of both the manifestations, Dr Guleria said early prevention is of paramount importance.If steroid misuse can be controlled and the patient does not have high blood sugar, then chances of post-covid fungal infection will be rare. Blood sugar level can reach 300-400 because of steroids, the AIIMS chief said adding a mild to moderate dose of steroid is good enough and has to be administered only for five to 10 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cases-of-post-covid-mucormycosis-are-increasing-says-aiims-chief-101621072495151.html
15-05-2021||India||Chhattisgarh extends Covid lockdown till May 31; districts can ease restrictions||RAIPUR: The Chhattisgarh government has asked district administrations to extend the lockdown till May 31 to contain the surge of Covid-19 cases, officials said on Saturday. The government has, however, allowed the district authorities to grant more relaxations in economic and other activities in this extended lockdown period.The lockdown, in force in all 28 districts, was to end on Saturday midnight. A government statement said the lockdown will continue but the districts are being allowed to grant relaxations, depending on Covid status and risk being faced in each district. “The restrictions and relaxations shall be applied till May 31,” the statement said.The state government had first imposed the restrictions in early April and has extended the lockdown since then.According to Union health ministry data, Chhattisgarh has 1,15,964 active cases, a decline of over 3,000 cases from yesterday. The move to allow districts to ease relaxations in view of local conditions is being linked to the variation in the Covid positivity rates, ranging from 30.9% in Raigarh district to 10.1% in Kondagaon district.“All kinds of standalone shops including those related to grocery, daily needs, vegetables and fruits and shops selling meat, poultry, eggs, fish, milk and milk products can function till 5pm. Although home delivery service for these products will be encouraged at the same time,” the government statement said.Banks and post offices can function with 50 percent of its staff and put in place appropriate social/physical distancing measures. Registry offices will also remain open with basic staff, for all registries, the statement added.According to the new guidelines, all government and private construction activities will be allowed but they will have to comply with all standard operating procedures and labour safety measures.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-extends-covid-lockdown-till-may-31-districts-can-ease-restrictions-101621072263519.html
15-05-2021||India||Increase Covid-19 testing in areas with high test positivity rates: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday chaired a high-level meeting on the situation over the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccination in India. Senior officials of the central government who attended the meeting also provided the Prime Minister with a detailed briefing over the current status of other Covid-19 related efforts, from testing to the positivity and recovery rates. Prime Minister Modi instructed that the rate of Covid-19 testing be scaled up in areas that have reported high test positivity rates (TPR), according to an official press note.Prime Minister Modi took to his official handle on Twitter to post, "Discussed a number of issues during today’s review meeting on COVID-19, including scaling up testing in areas with high TPR, preparing localized containment strategies, augmenting health capacities in rural areas and ramping up the speed of vaccination."Discussed a number of issues during today’s review meeting on COVID-19, including scaling up testing in areas with high TPR, preparing localised containment strategies, augmenting health capacities in rural areas and ramping up the speed of vaccination. https://t.co/ysQmtDiZAQPrime Minister Narendra Modi stressed the fact that localised Covid-19 testing is the need of the hour, especially for states where the TPR in districts is high. In these regions, both RT-PCR and rapid tests need to be scaled up further, the Prime Minister said, adding that states should be encouraged to report their numbers transparently without any pressure of high numbers showing adversely on their efforts.Officials also briefed Prime Minister Modi about the vaccination process and the state-wise coverage of 45+ population. The roadmap for future vaccine availability was also discussed. He directed officials to work closely with states to ramp up the speed of vaccination.The Prime Minister also spoke about empowering ASHA and Anganwadi workers with all necessary tools and asked for guidelines to be made available in easy language along with illustrations for home isolation and treatment in rural areas. According to an official note, Prime Minister Modi also asked for augmentation of healthcare resources in rural areas to focus on door-to-door testing and surveillance.For rural areas, the Prime Minister noted that a proper distribution plan for ensuring oxygen supply needs to be chalked out, including the thorough provision of oxygen concentrators. He added that health workers should be adequately trained to operate such equipment, and power supply should be ensured for the smooth operation of such medical devices.Meanwhile, PM Modi took "serious note" of some reports about ventilators lying unutilised in storage in some states and directed that an immediate audit of installation and operation of ventilators provided by the central government be carried out. The Prime Minister added that refresher training for properly operating ventilators should be provided to healthcare workers if necessary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/increase-coronavirus-covid-19-testing-in-areas-with-high-test-positivity-rates-tpr-prime-minister-pm-narendra-modi-101621070296374.html
15-05-2021||India||As Tauktae approaches west coast, know more about the storm and how to track it||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Saturday announced that a deep depression over the Arabian sea intensified into a cyclonic storm Tauktae and was centred over Lakshadweep island.As several states in the western coast of India brace for the cyclone to make a landfall, here is all that you need to know about 2021’s first storm:• The IMD had forecast on Friday that the cyclonic storm ‘Tauktae’ (pronounced as Tau’Te) is likely to intensify further into a ‘very severe cyclonic storm’ by Monday, with windspeed ranging between 150kmph and 160kmph.• The cyclone is likely to impact areas including the coast of Kerala, Karnataka, Lakshadweep, Goa and Maharashtra. The IMD has issued an ‘orange category’ warning for Goa on May 15 and 16.ALSO READ: India closely monitoring Cyclone Tauktae, no decision yet on shutting airports• The cyclone is likely to move north north-eastwards initially for some more time and then move north north-westwards and reach the Gujarat coast where it is likely to make a landfall on Tuesday morning.• Tauktae is expected to pass through Porbandar and Naliya in coastal Gujarat on Tuesday afternoon.• The authorities have sounded a red alert in five districts of Kerala -- Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Alappuzha, Pathanamitta and Ernakulam -- and have deployed National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) in areas likely to affected by the cyclone.• Mumbai and Thane too, where the effect of the storm is expected to be felt over the weekend, have been put under the yellow category storm warning by the IMD.• However, the influence of the storm in Maharashtra is likely to subside after Monday as it would travel north-westwards towards Gujarat around May 18, the IMD said.ALSO READ: Vistara, IndiGo say some flights likely to be impacted due to Cyclone Tauktae• The Indian Navy has kept its ships, aircraft, helicopters, diving and disaster relief teams on standby to help state administrations as the cyclone approaches.• Heavy rainfall with strong winds lashed parts of Kerala and coastal Maharashtra on Saturday as the storm intensified. Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray had on Friday heled a meeting where he asked district administrations, divisional commissioners and district collectors of Palghar, Raigad, Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg to stay vigilant.• Fishermen have been advised against venturing into sea and coast guards are on constant patrol.For latest updates on the cyclone, you can visit the website of the Regional Specialised Meteorological Centre for Cyclones over North Indian Ocean.You can also visit Earth Null school's website, which provides a visualisation of global weather conditions and forecast to track Tauktae in real time as it approaches the western coast.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-tauktae-approaches-west-coast-know-more-about-the-storm-and-how-to-track-it-101621070329360.html
15-05-2021||India||'Vaccinated or not': Government's scientific advisor has 3 tips against Covid-19||The principal scientific adviser to the government, K VijayRaghavan, on Saturday asked said there are three things that people must adhere to, irrespective of whether they are vaccinated or not. While masks and maintaining physical distancing have been reiterated several times by the government and experts, Dr VijayRaghavan added ventilation to the list."These interventions are also immediately critical for lowering pressures on the healthcare system, during this surge. Adherence essential at the personal and community levels. By all," he said.Covid-19 in children: How to identify symptoms early on and tackle themVery important, whether vaccinated or not: Masks, physical distancing, ventilation. These interventions are also immediately critical for lowering pressures on the healthcare system, during this surge. Adherence essential at the personal and community levels. By all.In its guideline for home treatment of Covid-19, the Centre emphasised isolating in a well-ventilated room. Even if people are getting vaccinated, comprising both the doses of either Covishield or Covaxin, one must stay in a well-ventilated room, the adviser said, while the need for wearing a mask and maintaining social distancing does not get diminished with vaccination. Even the health ministry has suggested wearing masks inside the home as well.Dr VijayRaghavan recently said that a third wave of the pandemic is inevitable. But it can be resisted if adequate preventive measures are taken. Explaining, he said the virus spreads when there is the availability of vulnerable population — people who are not vaccinated, people who do not have antibodies and people who are not adhering to Covid appropriate behaviour. While the mutation of the virus strain may or may not have any impact on the level of transmission of the infection, not taking precaution will expose people to the infection, he said.India on Friday crossed the significant landmark of vaccinating 18 crore doses since the beginning of the vaccination drive from January 16. The major feat comes at a time when the country is battling the peak of the second wave of the pandemic amid a dearth of medical resources.Cases of reinfections after full course of vaccination are few, but the Centre has been reiterating that masking is mandatory even after complete vaccination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vaccinated-or-not-government-s-scientific-advisor-has-3-tips-against-covid-101621069749774.html
15-05-2021||India||Mamata Banerjee’s younger brother dies after battling Covid-19 for a month||Ashim Banerjee, West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s younger brother, died on Saturday morning after being detected with Covid-19, last month, the hospital said in a statement.Ashim Banerjee, 62, was undergoing treatment at the hospital for the past one month, Dr Alok Roy, chairman of the city’s Medica Superspecialty Hospital, Kolkata, said, according to ANI.A senior doctor at the hospital said Ashim Banerjee died around 9:20 am. “He was detected with Covid-19 last month and was undergoing treatment for almost a month now. He had certain comorbidities such as hypertension,” the doctor said. Ashim Banerjee stayed in the same house where Mamata Banerjee, 66, lives. His last rites will be performed at Nimtala cremation ground today following Covid protocols.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mamata-banerjee-s-younger-brother-dies-after-battling-covid-19-for-a-month-101621069323450.html
15-05-2021||India||Black Fungus declared notified disease in Haryana||State health minister Anil Vij on Saturday said black fungus has now been declared a notified disease in Haryana.He further said Post Graduate Institute Rohtak Senior Doctors will conduct a video conference with all doctors of the state regarding dealing with coronavirus and its treatment."Black Fungus declared Notified Disease in Haryana. Now Doctors will report to CMOs of the District of any Black Fungus case detected. Post Graduate Institute Rohtak Senior Doctors will conduct a video conference with all Doctors of the State dealing Corona about its treatment," Anil Vij said in a tweet.It has been reported that this disease (Black Fungus) is caused by the steroid administered in the treatment of Covid-19 infection.Earlier, in the day the Odisha government constituted a seven-member state-level committee to monitor such cases in the state.According to the state health bulletin, the state reported 10,608 new Covid-19 cases and 164 deaths in the past 24 hours on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/black-fungus-declared-notified-disease-in-haryana-101621068887074.html
15-05-2021||India||Covid-19 in children: How to identify symptoms early on and tackle them||For parents worried about not detecting the symptoms of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in their children at early stages, the Union health ministry has released a set of guidelines. As Covid-19 symptoms in children are often mild, they initially go undetected, which results in more severe cough, fever, or breathlessness, in some cases.According to the health ministry, there are a few characteristics of the virus in children that their guardians should be on the lookout for.Symptoms to trackThough a majority of the children who contract the virus may be asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic, fever, cough, breathlessness, fatigue, myalgia, rhinorrhoea, sore throat, diarrhoea, loss of smell, loss of taste are common symptoms. A few children may also have gastrointestinal issues, the ministry said.A new syndrome called multi-system inflammatory syndrome has been observed in children. This syndrome is characterised by fever, abdominal pain, vomiting, diarrhoea, rash, and cardiovascular and neurological problems.In case the child is asymptomaticIf a child tests positive for the virus but is asymptomatic, there is a need to constantly track their health for development of symptoms. Early detection of symptoms will lead to early treatment, say health experts. Meanwhile, if children have mild symptoms such as sore throat, cough and rhinorrhoea but no breathing difficulty, they can be taken care of at home, the ministry said.Children with underlying comorbid conditions including congenital heart disease, chronic lung disease, chronic organ dysfunction or obesity may also be treated at home.Treatment of mild cases of Covid-19 in childrenTo treat fever in children, a paracetamol (10-15mg) may be used every 4 to 6 hours. For cough, gargles with warm, saline water will help, the health ministry said. Intake of fluids and a nutritious diet is mandatory.The ministry also clarified on the role of antiviral medication in treatment of Covid-19 in children. "There is no role of hydroxychloroquine, Favipiravir, Ivermectin, Iopinavir/Ritonavir, Remdesivir, Umifenovir, immunomodulators including Tocilizumab, Interferon B1a, convalescent plasma infusion or Dexamethosone," the guidelines read.It was important to maintain a monitoring chart for respiratory rates and oxygen levels. These should be checked 2-3 times a day. Chest indrawing, discolouration of body, urine output, fluid intake and activity level should also be monitored, especially in young children. Parents should contact doctors in case they notice anything out of the ordinary.Treatment of moderate cases of Covid-19 in childrenIf the respiratory rate is below 60 per minute in children less than two months old, below 50 per minute for children less than one year old, below 40 per minute for children up to five years and below 30 per minute for those over five, they may be suffering from a moderate case of Covid-19. The oxygen saturation level in all these age groups should be above 90%.No regular lab tests will be required unless the children have comorbid conditions and those conditions demand regular tests. But there is a need for children with moderate Covid-19 to be admitted to dedicated Covid health centres and monitored for clinical progress. In these cases, there was a need to encourage oral feeds (breast feeds in infants) and maintenance of fluid and electrolyte balance. Intravenous fluid therapy should be initiated if oral intake is poor, the ministry said.Treatment of severe cases of Covid-19 in childrenChildren with severe Covid-19 SpO2 (oxygen saturation) level of less than 90% and grunting, severe retraction of chest, lethargy, somnolence, seizure are some of the symptoms of severe Covid-19. Such children should be admitted to a dedicated Covid-19 healthcare facility and some of them may require HDU/ICU care. They should also be checked for thrombosis, hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis (HLH) and organ failure.Complete blood counts, liver and renal function tests and chest X-rays are mandatory for such cases. Corticosteroids (0.15 mg per dose) twice a day or antiviral drugs (such as Remdesivir granted for emergency use authorisation) should be used in a restricted manner after three days of onset of symptoms and after making sure that the child's liver and renal functions are normal.The second wave of Covid-19 in the country has devastated the healthcare system. So far, over 24,372,907 people have been infected and 266,207 have lost their lives due to the virus. The country's vaccination programme is also facing shortage issues as its only two vaccine manufacturers struggle to keep up with the demand. Amid shortage of vaccines being reported from across the nation for adults, India’s drug regulator on May 13 gave Bharat Biotech the permission to conduct clinical trials of Covaxin on children between the age of 2 and 18. This will be the first coronavirus inoculation to be tested in minors in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-in-children-how-to-identify-symptoms-early-on-and-tackle-them-101621067312983.html
15-05-2021||India||Jammu and Kashmir govt announces ₹3 crore relief package for tourism sector||Srinagar: Jammu and Kashmir Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha on Friday announced a ₹3 crore relief package for people associated with the tourism sector that has taken a severe hit due to the second wave of the coronavirus pandemic.Under this package, ₹2,000 financial assistance will be provided to 4,444 registered Shikara owners, 1,370 tourist guides, 6,663 ponywalas and 2,150 others including those who rent palanquins for yatris. The money will be paid for two months.“The relief will be transferred to only those who are registered with the tourism department,” said an official.Those in the tourism sector say this was a very limited package.The package does not have anything for travel agents, owners of Kashmir’s famed houseboats, hotels and transport operators. This package should at least extend amnesty for power and water bills for the tourism infrastructure, said Dr Umar Nazir Tibet Baqal, member of the TAAK Travel agents’ association of Kashmir.Jammu and Kashmir’s tourism sector has been in a bad shape for most of the last two years, beginning with the August decision to revoke the special status of Jammu and Kashmir and with the government asking tourists to leave the region. Tour operators had hoped that the tourist inflow would improve last year but the Covid pandemic kept most people away.The sector appeared to have been successful to get on its feet early this year and it did improve. The government also opened Tulip Garden on the banks of Dal Lake from March 25 despite an increase in Kashmir’s Covid-19 figures.But the Covid-19’s second wave, which wreaked havoc across the country, led to cancellation of the bookings. “This year we were expecting a bumper tourism season which would break all past records. From December onwards, I think more than 1.5 lakh tourists have visited the valley already. Unfortunately, the second wave hit the region and the season is gone,” said an officer bearer of a tour and trade association in Kashmir on condition of anonymity.As the disease started spreading in Jammu and Kashmir as well, the administration last month started imposing curfew in districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jammu-and-kashmir-govt-announces-rs-3-crore-relief-package-for-tourism-sector-101621067703522.html
15-05-2021||India||Congress plans to step up relief activities to mark Rajiv Gandhi’s death anniversary||The Congress has asked members of legislative assemblies and councils across the country to provide “at least two ambulances” as it plans to step up the Covid-19 relief activities ahead of late former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi’s 30th death anniversary on May 21. In a letter to the state chiefs and central functionaries, Congress’s general secretary (organisation) KC Venugopal has also suggested a five-point programme to augment the party’s relief works that have earned accolades, especially for the Youth Congress team led by Srinivas BV. “Focus on relief activities by providing food and arranging medicine kits to people. Kits of basic medicines should be prepared and distributed to the deprived persons. The kit may contain necessary medicines and medicines on-demand,” Venugopal said. He asked the state leaders to “observe a mass mask distribution programme at state, district and block levels” and distribute food to attendants at hospitals, ambulance drivers, and other needy people. The Congress also wants its state units to “help people in getting registered for the vaccination programme through the platforms concerned”.The Congress Working Committee, the party’s highest decision-making body, this week raised concerns that many people, particularly the underprivileged and a large section of the rural population, might be left out of the inoculation campaign as registration through the Co-Win app is compulsory for it. Venugopal has asked the Congress state units to convene meetings at the earliest and allocate relief related responsibilities to ministers, lawmakers, elected representations at the grassroots level and even to those who fought but have lost elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-plans-to-step-up-relief-activities-to-mark-rajiv-gandhi-s-death-anniversary-101621066203442.html
15-05-2021||India||Covid-19: How to do deep breathing exercises, how do they help, Centre answers||The Centre on Saturday underlined the importance of staying healthy amid the raging second wave of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic and suggested a deep breathing exercise which it said can help people in recovery after illness. Sharing a chart on Twitter, the government said this exercise can be done after taking steam inhalation and also without it.Breathing exercises including those performed in yoga such as Anulom Vilom Pranayam have proven to boost the general immunity of the human body. India is currently seeing a high number of cases and deaths due to Covid-19 which has also led to scarcity of oxygen supplies. Several infected patients have died due to massive drops in their oxygen levels. Therefore, it becomes extremely crucial for the people, irrespective of whether they are infected with Covid-19, to maintain their oxygen at adequate levels.Here are six steps by which you can perform this breathing exercise:> Sit up in a chair.> Keep your body relaxed.> Breathe in slowly through your nose> Hold in your breath.> Release your breath slowly, keeping your mouth open.> Do it 10 times in one go.The government also said the above exercise should be done only in a closed room and without wearing masks. People with acute breathing problems, high temperature and chest pain are, however, advised against performing the exercise. If anyone feels dizzy or experiences palpitations while performing the breathing exercise should stop.During this pandemic, it is important to stay healthy. Here’s how you can do deep breathing exercises which may help in recovery after illness. Take a look! #IndiaFightsCorona #Unite2FightCorona pic.twitter.com/luhLaw4sIxApart from the above, the Union health ministry recently released guidelines for self-proning which improves breathing comfort and oxygenation. Proning is extremely beneficial in Covid patients with compromised breathing effort, especially if they are in home isolation, the ministry said adding this exercise is only needed when a patient experiences difficulty in breathing and the oxygen saturation goes below 94.India, meanwhile, on Saturday recorded 326,098 new coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases and 3,890 more deaths, taking the caseload and the death toll to 24,372,907 and 266,207 respectively, according to the Union health ministry’s dashboard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-how-to-do-deep-breathing-exercises-how-do-they-help-centre-answers-101621062652733.html
15-05-2021||India||‘Shield of humanity’: Shiv Sena’s rare praise for Shivraj Singh Chouhan govt||Mumbai: The Shiv Sena on Saturday singled out the Shivraj Singh Chouhan government for praise for announcing a monthly pension for children who have lost their parents, saying this could be a role model for other states.The Sena, in its mouthpiece Saamana, said state and central governments have to take cognizance of children who had become orphans due to Covid-19 and must be given the “shield of humanity”.The Madhya Pradesh government on Thursday announced that children who lost their parents or guardians to Covid-19 will be provided free education and a ₹5,000 monthly pension. The state will also bear the expenses of education of these children.The editorial in Saamana, which spoke about the plight of children who had lost their parents, welcomed the initiative.“Many children are unaware that their parents who are fighting Covid may not return from the hospital. The government will have to take care of these orphaned children by becoming their guardian. Whether it is the Union government or the State, they would have to take note of these children and give them the shield of humanity the way Madhya Pradesh’s Shivraj Chouhan has done,” the editorial said.In Maharashtra where the Shiv Sena leads the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi coalition government, the state government earlier this week decided to form a task force in each district under the collector to identify children who have been orphaned due to Covid-19 to ensure their safety.The editorial added that many have expressed concern over the issue and several discussions have been happening about it. “In Maharashtra too the discussion happened over this issue but Madhya Pradesh did not merely discuss this serious matter and announced that they would give pension to such children,” the editorial said in a critical tone.Madhya Pradesh was one of the first states to put the spotlight on the plight of children orphaned due to Covid-19 and take steps to ensure that unscrupulous people do not exploit the situation. Several other states followed suit.On Thursday, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal also announced that the government will provide free education to children who have lost their parents to Covid-19 and extend financial assistance to all those, especially senior citizens, who have lost the only earning member of their family to the disease.On Thursday, Chhattisgarh had declared that the government will pay for the education of children who have lost their parents to Covid-19. Under the scheme, a monthly stipend of ₹500 will be paid to such children from Classes 1 to 8 and ₹1,000 per month from Classes 9 to 12.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shield-of-humanity-shiv-sena-s-rare-praise-for-shivraj-singh-chouhan-govt-101621060863181.html
15-05-2021||India||India and US hold talks on increasing Covid vaccine availability, TRIPS waiver||Union industry and commerce minister Piyush Goyal on Friday held a virtual meeting with the United States Trade representative Katherine Tai with regard to increasing the availability of vaccine doses against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) ‘in an inclusive and equitable manner’ to fight against the global pandemic, according to a statement issued by the ministry of commerce and industry.Goyal and Tai also held talks on both India and the United States working together on the Trade-Related aspects of Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPS) waiver with a view to ensure that vaccine doses are affordable to all.“The proposal of India on waiver of certain TRIPS provisions to increase global vaccine production in order to take on the challenge of vaccinating the poorest of the poor and saving lives was also discussed. Goyal thanked Tai for the US announcing its support for India’s proposal,” the statement said.Had a fruitful discussion with US Trade Representative @AmbassadorTai focusing on India & US working together on Trade-Related aspects of Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPS) waiver. This will ensure affordable COVID-19 vaccines for all. pic.twitter.com/Rin6V7YDRjDuring the meeting, Tai spoke about her backing for the waiver of intellectual property protection for vaccines and text-based negotiations at the World Trade Organization (WTO), which are a part of President Joe Administration’s efforts to expand manufacturing and distribution of vaccines doses across the globe, the office of the US Trade Representative said in a statement.Also Read| A new chapter for the TRIPS waiver proposalShe also expressed her sympathy towards the worsening situation in India due to the second wave of the pandemic and reasserted United States’ commitment to help the latter during the crisis.The WTO agreement on TRIPS is a detailed multilateral agreement on intellectual property. In October 2020, India, South Africa and 57 other members of the WTO had proposed a waiver from specific provisions of the TRIPS agreement for the prevention, containment and treatment of the Covid-19 disease, news agency ANI reported.Also Read| Digital divide: More jabs administered in urban districts than in rural areasLast week, the United States government announced its support for a global waiver on patent protections for vaccines in order to boost its supply globally. “This is a global health crisis, and the extraordinary circumstances of the Covid-19 pandemic call for extraordinary measures,” US Trade Representative Tai said in a statement on May 6. The United States government will soon negotiate the terms at the WTO.However, European leaders and several drug manufactures including Germany’s BioNTech have opposed this move. Ugur Sahin, the chief executive officer (CEO) of BioNTech, which is manufacturing vaccines along with US based Pfizer, told news agency AP on May 10 there is no need to waive patents as manufacturers will be able to produce sufficient vaccine doses to supply to all countries in the coming year.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-and-us-hold-talks-on-increasing-covid-vaccine-availability-tripswaiver-101621056905719.html
15-05-2021||India||Mortal remains of Soumya Santhosh, Kerala woman killed in Israel, arrive in India||The mortal remains of 30-year-old Soumya Santhosh, the Kerala woman who lost her life in the rocket attack on the Israeli city of Ashkelon, arrived in New Delhi, earlier on Saturday morning. Minister of state for external affairs V Muraleedharan along with Israeli deputy envoy Rony Yedidia Clein paid their last respects to the deceased in the national capital.“With a heavy heart, received the mortal remains of Ms. Soumya Santhosh in Delhi and paid my last respects. CDA of Israel Embassy @RonyYedidia also joined. I empathise with the pain and sufferings of the family of Ms. Soumya. More strength to them,” Muraleedharan tweeted on Saturday.With a heavy heart, received the mortal remains of Ms. Soumya Santhosh in Delhi and paid my last respects. CDA of Israel Embassy @RonyYedidia also joined. I empathise with the pain and sufferings of the family of Ms. Soumya. More strength to them. pic.twitter.com/97bvOziCpGEarlier on Friday, the minister of state had said that he will personally receive Ms Santhosh’s mortal remains in Delhi. “The mortal remains of Ms Soumya Santhosh, who was killed in rocket attacks from Gaza, are being repatriated today from Israel to Kerala through Delhi. They will reach her native place tomorrow. I will personally be receiving the remains in Delhi. May her soul rest in peace,” he had tweeted on Friday.The Indian embassy in Israel, later on Friday night, confirmed that the aircraft carrying her mortal remains had taken off for New Delhi from Israel.Soumya Santhosh was working as a caregiver to an elderly woman in the Israeli city of Ashkelon near the Gaza strip, according to a report by the news agency ANI. Soumya’s family said that she was living in Israel for seven years while her husband and their nine-year-old son stayed in Kerala.Watch | Mortal remains of Kerala woman killed in rocket attack in Israel arrive in India﻿Israel’s deputy envoy Rony Yedidia Clein on Thursday had said that the mortal remains of the deceased would reach India by Saturday. “We have been in touch with the family. She was talking to her husband when this happened and I can imagine how horrendous it's for the husband. I can only sympathise with what he must be feeling,” news agency ANI quoted her as saying.Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan also conveyed his condolences to the family of Ms Santhosh. “We are in touch with the Indian Embassy in Israel to ensure that the mortal remains of Soumya Santhosh who was killed in Israel is brought back to Kerala and handed over to her family as soon as possible. Heartfelt condolences to the family and friends of Soumya,” Vijayan had said on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mortal-remains-of-soumya-santhosh-kerala-woman-killed-in-israel-arrive-in-india-101621055688691.html
15-05-2021||India||India adds 326,098 new Covid cases, 3,890 more deaths; tally over 24.37 million||India on Saturday recorded 326,098 new coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases and 3,890 more deaths, taking the caseload and the death toll to 24,372,907 and 266,207 respectively, according to the Union health ministry’s dashboard. As many as 353,299 people recovered in the last 24 hours and the total recoveries have climbed to 20,432,898 and constitute 83.50% of the caseload. The active cases stand at 3,673,802.Nearly 1.7 million samples (1,693,093 to be exact) were tested for Covid-19 in the last 24 hours, taking the cumulative testing figures to 313,017,193 , according to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).Saturday’s case count is 17,046 less than that of Friday’s when 343,144 people tested positive for the disease. India is severely hit by the deadlier second wave of the pandemic and is reporting a high increase in cases and deaths on a daily basis. This increase has led to a near collapse of the country’s health infrastructure with states and Union territories (UTs) flagging shortage of oxygen supplies, hospital beds, vaccine doses and essential drugs such as Remdesivir and Tocilizumab.Also Read| 'India's Covid-19 situation hugely concerning': WHO chiefThe World Health Organization (WHO) said on Friday that the Covid-19 disease situation in India remains hugely concerning as several states continue to see high numbers of cases, deaths and hospitalisations. Addressing a press conference, WHO director general Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said that the WHO is responding to the Covid crisis in India and has supplied thousands of oxygen concentrators, masks, tents for mobile field hospitals and other medical equipment, news agency PTI reported.The Centre, meanwhile, said on Thursday that Covid-19 can emerge again adding preparations have to be made at a national level in cooperation with states and UTs, infrastructure needs to be ramped up and all Covid-related curbs and appropriate behaviour should be followed.Also Read| Kerala extends lockdown till May 23 amid continuing spike in Covid-19 infectionsAmid the worsening situation in the country, several states including Kerala, Bihar, Maharashtra, Karnataka etc have opted for lockdowns in order to break the chain of transmission. Maharashtra, the worst-hit state from the pandemic, extended its lockdown-like restrictions till 7am on June 1. The state, which is seeing a decline in its daily infections, has so far added 5,309,215 cases and 79,552 deaths.Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan announced on Friday that the ongoing state-wide lockdown will be extended by another week to May 23, owing to the massive rise in cases and deaths. The Bihar government on Thursday extended the lockdown for another 10 days till May 25, after the state started seeing a fall in cases during the previous lockdown which was supposed to end today.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-adds-326-098-new-covid-cases-3-890-more-deaths-tally-over-24-3-million-101621048217021.html
15-05-2021||India||News updates from HT: 21 members of Odisha's oldest tribes test Covid-19 positive and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.21 members of some of oldest tribes in Odisha test positiveSome of Odisha’s and India’s oldest tribes, including a few with barely a few thousand surviving members, have reported 21 Covid-19 cases from among their ranks. Read moreIndia set to resurrect '101 squadron' at Hashimara base with 4 more Rafale jetsWith another batch of four Rafale fighters landing at Ambala from Merignac-Bordeaux airbase in France on May 19-20, the Indian Air Force (IAF) is all set to resurrect the 101 “Falcons of Chamb” squadron at Hashimara in West Bengal. Read moreDelhi has no space to bury the young who succumb to Covid-19On Thursday, when 59-year-old Jitender Singh Shunty, a former legislator who has been helping with Covid-19 cremations at the Seemapuri crematorium, held the lifeless body of nine-month-old Krishu, his hands trembled. Read more‘Getting used to climate and pitches’: Hanuma Vihari explains how County stint can help him in WTC final against NZIndian batsman Hanuma Vihari opened up on his County stint with the Warwickshire, stating that it has been a challenging one but was also a good learning experience. Read moreWhen Madhuri Dixit opened up about her independent life in the US after marriage: 'My heart was thumping'Madhuri Dixit, who turns a year older on May 15, set a new bar of success in the 1990s with her movies. Read moreNatasa Stankovic in ₹990 crop top and high-waisted jeans shows the right way to do casual date-night lookNatasa Stankovic has a style sense that is extremely trendy and Gen Z approved. From a crop top and high-waisted pants set to camisole satin dresses, the actor looks good in everything. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-21-members-of-odisha-s-oldest-tribes-test-covid-19-positive-and-all-the-latest-news-101621048517375.html
15-05-2021||India||Tamil Nadu chief minister MK Stalin inspects state's Covid-19 unified command centre in Chennai||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister MK Stalin on Friday inspected State's Covid-19 unified command centre in Chennai to tackle the second wave of the pandemic."I visited the State's COVID-19 unified command centre (War Room) in Tamil Nadu, which monitors and regulates beds, medicine stocks and oxygen.#Covid19 in Tamil Nadu is under control", tweeted Chief Minister.Stalin also took a help seeker call which came on the 104 helpline number and helped the person find a bed at Chennai Rajiv Gandhi General Hospital.On May 12, Tamil Nadu CM, MK Stalin announced ₹25 Lakhs each as compensation for 43 frontline workers and families of government doctors who passed away while carrying their duties during the Covid-19 pandemic. He also announced incentives for frontline staff for April, May and June.Shops selling groceries and meat in Tamil Nadu would be allowed to function only from 6 a.m. to 10 a.m. from Saturday, as part of the Covid-19 lockdown that will be in place till May 24 morning.Tamil Nadu reported 31,892 new Covid cases, 20,037 recoveries and 288 deaths in the last 24 hours, as per the state health bulletin yesterday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-chief-minister-mk-stalin-inspects-state-s-covid-19-unified-command-centre-in-chennai-101621046918670.html
15-05-2021||India||India set to resurrect '101 squadron' at Hashimara base with 4 more Rafale jets||With another batch of four Rafale fighters landing at Ambala from Merignac-Bordeaux airbase in France on May 19-20, the Indian Air Force (IAF) is all set to resurrect the 101 “Falcons of Chamb” squadron at Hashimara in West Bengal even as advance units have already moved into the new base.While the exact date of Rafale landing in India will be determined by availability of mid-air refuellers of the UAE Air Force and weather conditions, it is quite evident that the full deliveries of 36 aircraft will be completed well before April 2022 as announced by Union defence minister Rajnath Singh in Parliament. At the end of May, the IAF will have 24 Rafale fighter jets in India, with another seven kept for training purposes in France and only five more to be handed over before the two squadrons are complete.The last five aircraft may be delivered in the second-half of 2021 as Egypt has placed an order of 30 Rafale fighters.ALSO READ: Rafale weaponry prompts China, Pak to alter defence postureThe home base of second squadron is getting readied at Hashimara with repaved extended runways, ammunition depots, blast pens and personnel accommodation apart from maintenance bays. “The Hashimara air base has been totally revamped and should be operational by end of this month. This will be the peace time location of the aircraft but in war times, the fighters will operate from anywhere in the country as per war plans,” said an Air Marshal.With India likely to buy more front-line fighters to complete the stalled requirement of 126 medium multi-role combat aircraft (MMRCA), the French have not only offered hot engine technology to India but are also willing to jointly develop extended range and capability Hammer air-to-ground missile under the Atmanirbhar Bharat route. French engine manufacturer Safran has already conveyed the offer for jointly developing aircraft engines upto 100 Kilo Newton thrust as well as share the hot engine technology which Indian allies in the west are reluctant to share.ALSO READ: Armed forces use lease route to cut red-tape, stay prepared for adversariesFrance has also offered to share and jointly develop technology for longer range and heavier Highly Agile and Manoeuvrable Munition Extended Range (Hammer) missile which is currently part of the weapons package on the Indian Rafale. With a range of over 70 kilometres, the Hammer weapon can be guided on to the target using GPS, Inertial Navigation and Infra-red seeker with the capability to adjust to target location mid-air using maps for course correction. The latest version of this weapon has a 1,000 kilogram bomb and with laser guidance technology.“The Rafale package is a game-changer in the region as none of India’s adversaries have such capability to wage war beyond visual range,” said an IAF Air Marshal.India ordered 36 warplanes from France (equivalent of two squadrons) in 2016 for ₹59,000 crore under a government-to-government deal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-set-to-resurrect-101-squadron-at-hashimara-base-with-4-more-rafale-jets-101621046121678.html
15-05-2021||India||Covid-19: Odisha govt forms panel to monitor rising cases of Mucormycosis||Concerned over rising cases of Mucormycosis or Black Fungus amongst Covid-19 patients, the Odisha government on Friday constituted a seven-member state-level committee to monitor such cases in the state.The seven-member committee will monitor the incidence of Mucormycosis in patients admitted to different hospitals in the State and formulate a guideline for early detection and management of such cases."In view of the reported rise in the incidence of Mucormycosis (Black Fungus) amongst the Covid-19 patients on Corticosteroids and other immunosuppressive drugs and also amongst patients in the post Covid period in the State, Odisha Government has constituted a State Level Committee", informed an official release.Also Read| In Odisha, 21 tribals from primitive groups test positive for Covid-19The state health and Family Welfare Department has asked all Government Medical colleges in the state to constitute an expert committee each comprising of members from the Department Of Medicine and {or Pulmonary medicine, Dermatology. ENT. Ophthalmology, and neurology (if available)} for coordination of diagnosis and management of such cases.All Government Medical College will create facilities for detection and management of such cases in the Department of ENT and Ophthalmology for RT-PCR negative and or post-Covid patients, The active Covid-19 patients when detected to have Mucormycosis will continue treatment with the support Of ENT and Ophthalmology faculties or consultant.Odisha recorded a sudden surge in Covid-19 cases on Friday as the state reported 12,390 new cases in the last 24 hours, according to the state health bulletin.As many as 10,649 new Covid-19 cases were reported in Odisha on Thursday.The state also recorded 22 Covid-related deaths while 8,665 people recovered from the disease in the last 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-odisha-govt-forms-panel-to-monitor-rising-cases-of-mucormycosis-101621042851417.html
15-05-2021||India||IMD predicts light to moderate rains over Haryana, Rajasthan||The Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) on Saturday predicted light to moderate intensity rains over Haryana, Rajasthan and its adjoining areas in the next two hours."Light to moderate intensity rain with wind speed 20-40 kmph would occur over Viratnagar, Kotputly, Alwar, Jhunjunu, Pilani, Rajghar, Laxmangarh, Bayana (Rajasthan), Narnaul, Tizara, Mahendergarh (Haryana) and adjoining areas during next 2 hours", tweeted IMD."Mahendergarh (Haryana) and adjoining areas during next 2 hours", tweeted IMD.Meanwhile, the advance of the southwest monsoon over Indian mainland is marked by monsoon onset over Kerala and is an important indicator characterizing the transition from a hot and dry season to a rainy season, informed a press release by IMD yesterday evening.India Meteorological Department (IMD) has been issuing operational forecasts for the date of monsoon onset over Kerala from 2005 onwards. An indigenously developed state-of-the-art statistical model with a model error of - 4 days is used for this purpose.Also Read| Cyclone Tauktae: NDRF teams deployed in five statesThe 6 Predictors used in the models are; i) Minimum Temperatures over North-west India, ii) Pre-monsoon rainfall peak over south Peninsula, iii) Outgoing Longwave Radiation (OLR) over south China Sea, (iv) Lower tropospheric zonal wind over the southeast Indian Ocean, (v) upper tropospheric zonal wind over the east equatorial Indian Ocean, and (vi) Outgoing Longwave Radiation (OLR) over the southwest Pacific region.In the Indian monsoon region, initial monsoon rains are experienced over south Andaman Sea and the monsoon winds then advance in north-westwards across the Bay of Bengal. As per the new normal dates of monsoon onset/progress, the southwest monsoon advances over the Andaman Sea around 22nd May.At present, a Depression has formed over the Lakshadweep area and neighborhood. It is very likely to intensify into a Cyclonic Storm during next 24 hours. It is very likely to move north-northwestwards and reach the south Gujarat coast in the early hours of 18th May.Also Read| Kerala braces to meet threat of Cyclone TauktaeAs a result, the cross-equatorial south westerlies have temporarily strengthened over the Arabian Sea. The cross-equatorial flow is very likely to strengthen and deepen over the Bay of Bengal from 20th May and a sustained rainfall activity is likely over the South Bay of Bengal and Andaman and Nicobar Islands from 21st May. Hence the monsoon advance over Andaman & Nicobar Islands is very likely around 21st May 2021.However, the past data suggest that there is no association of the date of monsoon advance over the Andaman Sea either with the date of monsoon onset over Kerala or with the seasonal monsoon rainfall over the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/imd-predicts-light-to-moderate-rains-over-haryana-rajasthan-101621042262277.html
15-05-2021||India||New York to send medical supplies to India amid second Covid-19 wave: Mayor||New York Mayor Bill de Blasio on Friday (local time) announced that the city will send essential medical supplies to India as it battles a deadly second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic.According to a statement, de Blasio said that New York will tap into its stockpile to send Covid-19 test kits, swabs, ventilators, BiPAP machines, pulse oximeters, and other medical supplies to India."Just over a year ago, New York City was the center of the global pandemic. Now it is our turn to step up and help India in its moment of crisis. We are sending vital medical equipment to India to send a clear message: nobody is in the fight against Covid-19 alone. Together, we can save lives and beat back the pandemic," said the NYC Mayor.Extending his gratitude over de Blasio's decision, Randhir Jaiswal, Consul General of India, said: "We greatly appreciate the generous gift by New York City to the Government of India. The ventilators, BiPAPs and testing kits which have been donated by New York will be immensely useful in fighting the pandemic in India.""The supplies being sent will further add to the robust assistance provided by the US government to India. The empathy shown by this great City is admirable," he added.Meanwhile, a New Yorker, actress and singer Mary Millben told ANI that poor leadership in New York will now cause a longer return to full functionality."My message to India - let hope arise in your hearts. I know these are tough and dark days. But just like Americans, Indians are a resilient people. And that is a true parallel," she said.Known for her rousing arrangements of Indian music, Millben applauded the Biden-Harris administration's efforts to help India amid the Covid-19 crisis.Last month, the United States delivered its first shipment of medical supplies to India including 423 oxygen cylinders with regulators (200 Size D, 223 Size H), 210 pulse oximeters, 184,000 Abbott Rapid Diagnostic Test Kits, and 84000 N-95 face masks.In the second shipment on the same day, the US delivered 17 H-size (large) oxygen cylinders and 7,00,000 Abbott Rapid Diagnostic Test Kits to help the country fight the coronavirus pandemic.Several countries have come forward to help India as the country fights the second wave of Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-york-to-send-medical-supplies-to-india-amid-second-covid-19-wave-mayor-101621037300540.html
15-05-2021||India||Elderly woman gang-raped, brutalised in UP||An elderly woman was allegedly gang-raped in Uttar Pradesh’s Kannauj district on Friday morning, police said, adding that she was brutalised by criminals, who broke her jaw and damaged her eyes.Prashant Varma, Superintendent of Police (SP), Kannauj, said the victim, who is around 70 years old, was found in a pool of blood by her grandson. She has been admitted to a hospital in Kanpur, he said.Police have started an investigation, though the family is yet to give any complaint, the SP said, adding that the FIR would be lodged as soon as the complaint was received.According to police, the woman was sleeping outside her house in Manimau while her daughter-in-law and grandson were in the house and her son was in the fields.Police said according to the preliminary investigation, more than five men are suspected to be involved in the crime. They first attacked and snatched the woman’s earrings before taking turns to rape her, police said, adding that fearing consequences, the suspects tried to kill the woman. They assaulted the woman, inflicting injuries in her lower abdomen, police said. Medical examination revealed that her jaw had multiple fractures and one of her eyes was ruptured, police added. The woman has identified the men involved in the crime.Her grandson found her lying in the pool of blood. She was taken to the district hospital in Kannauj with the help of locals. However, doctors at the hospital referred her to a hospital in Kanpur as her condition was critical.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/elderly-woman-gang-raped-brutalised-in-up-101621035087413.html
15-05-2021||India||Woman from viral 'Love you Zindagi' video dies of Covid-19||After battling Covid-19 for around 10 days, a woman, who came to be known as the 'Love You Zindagi' girl on Twitter after a video of her swaying to the Bollywood hit while getting oxygen at a hospital went viral, has succumbed to the infection.The doctor treating her on Friday said the woman's family does not want her identity to be revealed.On May 8, Monica Langeh, a doctor at a hospital in Delhi, tweeted a video where the 30-year-old woman, while on non invasive ventilation (NIV), was listening and swaying to the Bollywood song -- Love You Zindagi which featured Shahrukh Khan and Alia Bhatt."It was a stressful situation when she was admitted. There were no beds available at that time. We admitted her in the Covid emergency ward and were managing her."She was given the best treatment possible. Remdesivir and plasma therapy was also given to her. But her condition deteriorated and she did not respond well to the treatment," Langeh said.She was on the ventilator for the last three days and passed away on Thursday night, Langeh said.What struck Langeh about the woman was her fighting spirit and her zest for life."While I was on rounds in the Covid emergency ward, she was playing songs but with a great deal of trepidation. I asked her about her taste in music."Swaying to the music she was listening, she said she liked Punjabi as well as romantic songs. I gave her the hotspot from my phone and she started listening to the 'Love you Zindagi' song and it was then that I made the video," Langeh said.Langeh said she has seen many coronavirus patients, but this woman was different."As soon as patients get to know that they have contracted the virus, they develop anxiety and we have to counsel them a lot. But she was different. She had a strong will power," the doctor recalled.Langeh then helped the woman download a music app from which she would regularly listen to songs. The woman was later moved to the ICU."While she was in the ICU, her family members -- right from the elderly to the young ones -- would send audio messages encouraging her and saying things like -- we are waiting for you and come back soon'. They also told her that they would go out for an outing after she comes back."Her family members were mentally strong and despite knowing that she was in a critical condition and might not make it, they never once made her feel bad," she said.The woman is survived by her husband and five year old child."Her husband was crying yesterday and saying what would he tell his child and how will he face him when the child asks me about his mother? I am shattered. I had developed a bond with her. I have seen patients much more critical than her recovering but it is sad that she couldn't survive," the doctor said.The woman's husband had also contracted the infection but recovered in home isolation.Bollywood actor Sonu Sood, who has been extending help to people during the Covid-19 pandemic, also mourned her demise."So so sad, never ever she would have imagined that she won't be able to see her family again. Life is so unfair. So many lives which deserved to live are lost. No matter how normal our life becomes but we will never be able to come out of this phase," he said in a tweet.Many other celebrities like Suniel Shetty, Gurmeet Choudhary and Anup Soni also reacted to Langeh's post announcing the young woman's passing away.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/woman-from-viral-love-you-zindagi-video-dies-of-covid19-101621035220706.html
15-05-2021||India||Autopsy to confirm lightning as cause of death of 18 elephants||he Assam government on Friday decided to conduct forensic tests on the 18 elephants that allegedly died from lightning strikes two days ago in the Barhampur area of Nagaon district.The bodies of the elephants were buried on Friday after a team of veterinarians conducted post-mortem examinations. Some remains have been sent to the state forensic laboratory in Guwahati for further tests. The incident took place at Bamuni Pahar under Kothiatoli forest range of Nagaon district. The bodies of the pachyderms were found on Thursday.Though the initial inquiry revealed lightning to be the likely cause of the deaths, wildlife experts suspected that mass poisoning could also be a reason as Assam has previously witnessed deaths of elephants due to poisoning -- mostly perpetrated by local cultivators. Rampant and unplanned development in the state’s forest areas have encroached on elephant corridors, increasing man-animal conflict, with herds of elephants sometimes wreaking havoc on agricultural fields and hamlets.“From what we saw, it appears the deaths were caused due to lightning as there were no visible signs of struggle before the elephants died. But the exact cause will be known only after reports of the post-mortem and forensic examinations,” said forest and environment minister Parimal Suklabaidya.The Assam government has constituted a team to be headed by a senior forest officer and seven veterinarians to probe the incident. “The post-mortem reports will be available in a day or two, but we may have to wait a little longer for the outcome of the forensic tests...,” said P Sivakumar, director, Kaziranga National Park and Tiger Reserve.Elephant expert and CEO of Aaranyak, a wildlife NGO, Bibhab Talukdar, said that evidence suggests lightning was the most probable cause of the deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/autopsy-to-confirm-lightning-as-cause-of-death-of-18-elephants-101621027641945.html
15-05-2021||India||Digital divide: More jabs administered in urban districts than in rural areas||The Covid-19 vaccination drive, which was opened to all adults from May 1, has managed to cover significantly more ground in urban districts in India, data analysed from the Co-WIN dashboard shows, strengthening criticism that the digital-only process could be leaving out a large section of the rural population.District wise data provided on the Co-WIN website, analysed by Hindustan Times, shows that doses administered in urban districts were nearly 1.7 times those in rural districts as on May 13.While this divide has persisted in all phases of the vaccination drive – which initially opened for health care workers, followed by frontline workers and people above 60, and then those over the age of 45 – it has particularly widened since May 1, when all adults became eligible for doses. (See chart)India allowed people above 60 to get doses from March 1, and those above 45 from April 1.Also Read | Assam starts special Covid-19 vaccination drive for transgenders. It’s the first in IndiaAs on May 13, the gap between per capital doses in urban compared to rural areas was the widest ever. To be sure, the divide between urban and rural areas has always been higher at the beginning of each phase and reduced over time, which is understandable.In the first thirteen days of the first phase of vaccination – when only health care workers were being vaccinated -- the share of total doses administered in the largely urban districts (where only up to 40% population is rural) was 0.25% compared to 0.18% in rural districts (where more than 60% population is rural). This means that adjusted for their populations, urban areas administered 1.39 times the number of doses of their rural counterparts. The average of this ratio for these first 13 days was also around this number.In the first thirteen days of the 2nd phase that started on March 1, the average of this ratio was 1.51. This average was 1.53 in the first thirteen days after April 1 and is 1.65 between May 1-13.Anecdotal reports about people from cities travelling up to a 100km to rural areas in the state for a vaccine mean that the actual disparity may be higher with many of the doses in centres in rural areas actually being administered to people from neighbouring urban areas.Also Read | The race to get vaccinated – Fastest finger firstThis analysis is based on classification of districts into three broad regions based on share of rural population in them: urban districts or those with up to 40% rural population, mixed districts or those with 40%-60% rural population, and rural districts or those with over 60% rural population. Of the 755 districts on the Co-WIN dashboard, 65 are urban, 93 mixed, and 597 rural.It isn’t just rural districts that have lagged compared to urban districts, but also the mixed ones, although to a lesser degree.According to a government official who did not wish to be identified, the ultimate constraint is the availability of vaccines and not the Co-WIN platform itself. “There are nearly 30 lakh (three million) people registering every day. Since May 1, nearly seven crore (70 million) have registered. If we break down these numbers, with the number of doses being administered per day, then just 3 lakh (300,000) vaccines are being chased by all these registered. This means there are nearly 230 people clamouring for one dose.”The official added that even within the urban population, this was likely to cause a situation where people cannot access the vaccine. “The total monthly production of vaccines in India at present is seven crores (70 million), six for Covishield and one by Covaxin, that means at most 23-lakh (2.3 million) people can be vaccinated in one day.”Defending the government’s decision to make registration mandatory, the official said that without registration, and with walk-ins, the situation could turn worse. “How would the centres manage the crowds if walk-ins were allowed,” the official said.The difference in terms of total doses administered naturally extends to share of people who have received at least one dose. Urban districts, which are home to 13.6% of India’s population, accounted for 19.7% of first doses administered until May 13. Mixed districts, home to 13.6% of population, accounted for just 15.4% of first doses in the same time period (and at least some of these surely went to people from urban areas).Rural districts, home to 73% of India’s population, accounted for only 64.9% of first doses. In this case too, at least some went to people from urban areas.Development economist and IIT professor Reetika Khera said: “The fact that urbanised districts received more than their proportionate share of vaccines does not adequately capture how the rural population may have been squeezed out. Even in the ‘rural districts’, there is no guarantee that doses have been administered to people in rural areas.”She added that a more serious concern is the combination of the lack of doses, vaccination being open to all over 18, and the de-facto removal of walk-in appointments. “This means that the most vulnerable - economically, socially and health-wise - populations will suffer,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/digital-divide-more-jabs-administered-in-urban-districts-than-in-rural-areas-101621027464279.html
15-05-2021||India||61k Covid deaths not counted in Gujarat: Report||The Congress, the main opposition in Gujarat, has demanded an inquiry after a report in a Gujarati newspaper on Friday used data on the number of death certificates issued to claim that the state has seen almost 61,000 excess deaths between March 1 and May 10 compared to the same period last year.Divya Bhaskar reported that local bodies issued 123,871 death certificates between March 1 and May 10, compared to 58,000 in the same period last year. The data was based on disclosures by municipal authorities in 33 districts and eight major cities, the paper reported. The report added that in the same period, death certificates issued by each of the 33 districts for Covid-19 fatalities came to 4,218.The report, which highlights a possible under-reporting of Covid-19 deaths is similar to excess-deaths studies conducted in many parts of the world that showed a rise in accounted deaths during the pandemic.On Friday, Gujarat reported 9,995 new Covid-19 cases and 104 deaths from the infection in the last 24 hours, taking the state’s tally and toll to 735,348 and 8,944 respectively.Also Read | Cases of Covid-linked mucormycosis reported across IndiaThere have been several reports in local Gujarati newspapers about deaths due to Covid being higher than the official figures in several regions. Many of these were based on figures from cremation grounds in the state.State government officials said they were looking into the Divya Bhaskar report, but chief minister Vijay Rupani has previously denied hiding Covid-19 deaths. “The Covid deaths are being recorded as per ICMR guidelines. If a comorbid person dies, there is a committee of experts that decides the primary and secondary causes of death. If it, for instance, finds that the main reason for death was heart attack then such a person may not be counted among the Covid-19 deaths even if he is positive. This system is followed across the country,” he had said.On Friday, Congress’s leader of Opposition Paresh Dhanani demanded an inquiry into the alleged under-reporting of Covid-19 deaths. “The state government should own up responsibility for the high number of deaths and initiate action against officials who have fudged data,” Dhanani said. Congress spokesperson Manish Doshi asked for criminal action against officials responsible.Deputy chief minister Nitin Patel, who also holds the health portfolio and has just recovered from Covid-19, did not respond to several calls and text messages. Principal secretary (health) Jayanti Ravi said she was in a meeting and would speak later. She didn’t take calls later. Office of Gujarat health commissioner, Jaiprakash Shivhare, said he was in meetings. The state BJP office-bearer refused to comment.Dr Chandresh Jardosh, outgoing president of the Indian Medical Association’s Gujarat chapter, however, said that the mismatch is because the state health department deliberately does not include patients with comorbidities in official data. “So, you must have pure Covid-19 without any frills to become an official statistic. I may not die of diabetes despite carrying it with me for 15 years, but my death will be considered a diabetic’s death and Covid becomes incidental,” he said. According to Dilip Mavalankar, director of the Gandhinagar-based Indian Institute of Public Health, “There are guidelines in public health manuals about how to classify a death. If a patient is comorbid but if the situation is aggravated by Covid-19 and dies, it is a Covid death.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/61k-covid-deaths-not-counted-in-gujarat-report-101621027267608.html
15-05-2021||India||Sputnik launched in Hyderabad at ₹995 a dose||On Friday, Dr Reddy’s Laboratories’s chief executive officer Deepak Sapra became the first person in the country to receive the Sputnik V vaccine developed by Russia’s Gamaleya Institute with assistance with the Russian sovereign wealth fund RDIF after it received emergency use authorisation in India on April 13.DRL said in a statement that the jab marked the soft launch of the vaccine in the country. This is the first foreign-made Covid-19 vaccine to be used in India. The vaccine is priced at ₹995.40 per shot in the market, with the possibility of prices coming down further once local production starts.Friday’s dose was one of 150,000 of Sputnik V imported by DRL from Russia on May 1. The Central Drug Laboratory, Kasauli,gave its regulatory clearance for the local launch of the vaccine on May 13. DRL hopes to receive more import consignments in coming months and will work with local manufacturing companies (Gland Pharma, Hetero Biopharma, Panacea Biotec, Stelis Biopharma, Virchow Biotech), which will, starting July, churn out locally made versions of the vaccine. Together, these companies have the capacity to manufacture 850 million doses of Sputnik V in a year although it isn’t clear how many they will manufacture this year.A note put out by the Union government on Thursday said 156 million doses of Sputnik V will be available/produced in India between August and December.The launch of the vaccine will ease some of the pressure on supply of vaccines, which is expected to remain tight for at least the next few months. Some states have had to suspend Phase 3 of the vaccine drive, for people in the 18-44 years age group, on account of unavailability of vaccines.DRL said on Friday that it hopes to receive 36 million doses of Sputnik V in the next few months as part of its contract with RDIF. “Our total commitment contracted from RDIF is 250 million doses of which the initial 15-20% is expected through imports,” DRL’s MV Ramana said in a post-earnings press conference.It wasn’t immediately clear whether the company has struck deals with state governments and private hospitals to sell them imported doses of the vaccine. Once local manufacturing starts, half the output will be sold to the central government and the rest to states and private hospitals.Sputnik V is a two-dose shot (but two unidentical doses unlike other two-dose vaccines) that is 91.6% effective in preventing serious illness. The second dose is a booster shot and the company also has a single dose variant, Sputnik Light with an efficacy of 79.4%. A RL executive told NDTV in an interview that the company is working closely with Gamaleya Institute to launch the vaccine later, conditional to regulatory clearance.In India, the vaccine is being tested by Dr Reddy’s in 1,600 people in a phase 2/3 trial meant as a “bridging study” that all foreign-made pharmaceutical products need to undergo.The second batch of Sputnik V is expected to arrive in India by the end of the week.“The imported doses of the vaccine are presently priced at an MRP of ₹948 + 5% GST per dose, with the possibility of a lower price point when local supply begins. The Company is working closely with its six manufacturing partners in India to fulfill regulatory requirements to ensure smooth and timely supply,” the DRL statement said.Sputnik V is the third vaccine to be given Emergency Use Authorisation in India after Covishield, Serum Institute of India’s local version of the Oxford University -AstraZeneca vaccine and Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin.Apart from partnership with Dr Reddy’s Labs, which is also conducting Sputnik V clinical trials locally, RDIF has entered manufacturing partnership with other local companies for its production.Among these companies, Hetero Biopharma received clearance from the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) recently to conduct phase 3 clinical trials.India has allowed citizens over the age of 18 years to receive Covid-19 vaccinations beginning May1.“With the rising cases in India, vaccination is our most effective tool in our battle against COVID-19. Contributing to the vaccination drive in India is our biggest priority right now to help Indians be healthy and safe,” said GV Prasad, co-chairman and managing director, Dr Reddy’s.India will be producing at least 50 million doses per month of Sputnik V, over the next couple of months.“India is the leading production hub for Sputnik V. RDIF has reached agreements with the leading pharmaceutical companies in the country (Gland Pharma, Hetero Biopharma, Panacea Biotec, Stelis Biopharma, Virchow Biotech) aimed at production of more than 850 million doses per year,” said RDIF in a statement.To date Sputnik V is registered in 65 countries with total population of over 3.2 billion people.Reuters contributed to this story||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sputnik-launched-in-hyderabad-at-rs-995-a-dose-101621026665762.html
15-05-2021||India||More shallow graves found on Ganga bank||Hundreds of shallow graves were discovered on the banks of the Ganga in two Uttar Pradesh districts, days after at least 800 bodies were found buried in the sand near the holy river in Unnao.The graves triggered panic in the area with many local residents saying they fear the bodies, which are buried around three feet deep into the sand, can be washed into the river if water surges during a high tide.At least 150 corpses have been found floating in the Ganga in Ballia and Ghazipur districts of Uttar Pradesh and Buxar and Patna districts of Bihar, prompting the central government and the National Human Rights Commission to take serious note of the matter.Local residents said they spotted at least 200 graves at Khereshwar ghat in Kanpur district’s Bilhaur, 60 in Chaubeypur and 60 in Shivrajpur. In Kannauj district’s Nanamau hamlet, at least 300 graves were found and Mehndi Ghat saw the discovery of another 200. “There is a tradition of people being buried here but I have never seen so many graves before,” said Ajay Deep Singh Bais, a resident of Kannauj.“I saw people bring the bodies here. There is fear over these burials,” said Gudda Thakur, who lives in Mehndi ghatSubdivisional magistrate (SDM) of Bilhaur, Meenu Rana, went to Khereshwar and recorded the grave site on video on Thursday evening. She refused to comment on the discovery. “The graves came up during the past four weeks and the river beds were never used for burials earlier,” said Piyush Mishra, a former village chief.Kanpur district magistrate Alok Tiwari was not available for comment. Kannauj district magistrate could not be reached for comments.Kannauj and Kanpur districts are about 70km apart. No official commented whether the bodies could belong to Covid-19 patients. According to Hindu customs, young people and those who are not married are buried near the river, though local residents said even elderly people were put to rest in recent weeks.In Unnao, where the district administration ordered a probe into the shallow graves discovered earlier this week, local officials continued to enforce a ban on burying people near the river.On Thurday, the administration had removed and conducted funerals for around 300 bodies, and around 400 more were done on Friday, said sub-divisional magistrate Daya Shankar Pandey.An inquiry was ordered by Pandey into the mass burial and how it went unnoticed, officials said on condition of anonymity.“It has been decided the burial would not be allowed from now on and people would be encouraged to consign the bodies to fire. Anyone not able to afford the cost of wood will be given for free,” said Unnao district magistrate Ravindra Kumar.At each of these places, local residents said personal protective equipment (PPE) kits and body bags were also found, either buried or dumped. In Kannauj’s Mehndi Ghat, people in PPE kits were seen overseeing burials.Unnao administration said it launched an inquiry into discovery of PPE kits and body bags and deployed special teams at ghats and rivers beds.“We would get to the bottom of this and initiate stern action,” Kumar said.Over the past week, at least 150 bodies have been fished out of the Ganga in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, leading to speculation that they could belong to Covid-19 patients whose families were too poor to afford treatment and funerals. The administration has said that testing the corpses was difficult because they were partially decomposed.Of this, 82 bodies were recovered from Buxar district in Bihar, four from Patna, 52 in Ballia district of Uttar Pradesh and 12 from Ghazipur district of UP.Both state governments have tightened vigil along the riverbank even as Bihar has alleged that the bodies floated downstream from Uttar Pradesh, which has denied the charge. Police forces and local administration have urged villagers to not dispose bodies in the river.“Ghazipur administration has capped price of firewood at ₹650/quintal & ‘dom raja’ would not take more than ₹500 for cremating a body. We’re setting up a control room at each crematorium where police personnel & lekhpal would be stationed.” Ghazipur district magistrate MP Singh told ANI on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/more-shallow-graves-found-on-ganga-bank-101621025406319.html
15-05-2021||India||Logistical issues led to drop in O2 levels in Goa: Govt in HC||Logistical problems, not shortage, were responsible for drop in oxygen pressure at the Goa Medical College and Hospital for six consecutive nights, the state government told the high court on Friday, admitting that the lack of steady supply led to the deaths of several patients and long-term organ damage to others. The Bombay HC at Goa sharply criticised the administration and said the reasons for the deaths — which stood at 75 on Friday — were unacceptable.State health secretary Ravi Dhawan told the court that there were two main logistical issues: attaching fresh cylinders to source of piped oxygen at the hospital, and lack of expert drivers who can manoeuvre a tractor trolley that carries the cylinders.Both these processes could take hours in novice hands and were responsible for the drop in oxygen pressure between 2am and 6am for the past week.The Goa hospital supplies patients through piped oxygen with an outlet and monitor at each bed. The source of the piped oxygen is a manifold or rack of cylinders set atop a trolley that needs to be changed once the cylinders run out. The old trolley is pulled out using a tractor,which is then detached and a fresh one is attached to it, and driven into place.Hospital authorities are now connecting patients to loose cylinders to ensure that the pressure does not drop. “Efforts are already being made to engage services of expert drivers to drive and manoeuvre the tractors for transportation of trolleys from the plant at Corlim to the Goa Medical College,” Dhawan said.Also Read | 15 more patients die at Goa hospital; relatives blame disruption in oxygen supplyThe Goa government has also begun the process of installing a 20,000 litre oxygen tank to ensure that the hospital’s oxygen piping system will no longer rely on cylinder racks. “This tank would be made operational on a war footing,” CM Pramod Sawant said.The high court found the reasons given unacceptable. “Along with power comes responsibility. People cannot die for reasons that we don’t have a driver, technician, we did not get spanner etc,” the court said.“We feel that such logistical problems must be got over at the earliest so that this tragedy of victims gasping for breath in the presence of their near and dear ones and in several cases even dying for want of necessary oxygen supply is arrested at the earliest,” the judges said.Workers at the hospital said conditions had not improved.“For several nights the oxygen levels have been dropping in the GMC. It is those patients who are relying on cylinders who suffer first as there is no one to swap the empty cylinders with full ones. The nurses and doctors are way too burdened to be able to do this,” said Ashley Delaney, a volunteer with the Red Cross and currently assisting at the hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/logistical-issues-led-to-drop-in-o2-levels-govt-in-hc-101621024175578.html
15-05-2021||India||In Odisha, 21 tribals from primitive groups test positive for Covid-19||The primitive tribal groups of Odisha in remote habitats who seemed to have escaped the second wave of Covid-19, have now reported 21 infections among them triggering concerns over it spreading to other tribals in the state.Officials said 21 tribals from 8 tribes have tested positive for the virus over the last few days.“The infections have been reported since last month and we are keeping a close watch over their condition. Of the 21, a dozen have so far recovered. All of them were in home isolation and did not require hospitalisation,” said P Arthanari, Project director of Odisha PVTG Empowerment and Livelihood Improvement Programme.The Bondas scattered across 32 remote hilltop villages on in the Eastern Ghats of Malkangiri district are believed to have come to India as part of the first wave of migration out of Africa about 60,000 years ago. They were the first forest settlers in India.Similarly, 4 tribals from the Dongaria Kondh, another particularly vulnerable tribal group, living in Niyamgiri hills of Rayagada district tested positive on Thursday. Officials said the infected tribals from Parsali grampanchayat of Kalyansinghpur block probably came in contact with Covid-19 positive people in some urban market outside their village area.“As they sometimes visit the urban markets we think they may have caught the infection there. We have now started an IEC campaign in the Dongaria Kondh villages to ensure that the disease does not spread. We have been teaching them the importance of wearing masks and maintaining social distance in Kui language,” said Rayagada district collector Saroj Kumar Mishra.The infections among the PVTG have been reported from 8 districts including Sundargarh, which is among the top-5 districts of the state in terms of active Covid-19 cases.Though the Odisha government has not classified the Covid-19 infected people into tribals and non-tribals, senior officials of SC/ST department said many non-PVTG tribals in the state would surely have been infected, but it would not be very high.“We are yet to know how many tribals as a whole have been infected in the second wave. But we guess the numbers would be less than the average in rural areas as tribals maintain social distancing. But we are keeping a close watch,” said Ranana Chopra, secretary of state SC/ST welfare department.Last year, a study by the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes Research and Training Institute, a government-run research institute on tribals had found that tribal population in Odisha was largely untouched by the pandemic due to their customary practices of social distancing.Chopra said the state tribal department is now planning to start a 5 year health observatory programme in association with the Indian Council of Medical Research to monitor the tribal health in the state. “The programme would begin this year and keep a close watch on overall health of the tribal population of the state in an integrated manner,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-odisha-21-tribals-from-primitive-groups-test-positive-for-covid19-101621022040845.html
15-05-2021||India||What I saw can’t be described: Dhankhar on meeting people hiding in Assam post polls||West Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Friday said the fear he saw in the eyes of people who allegedly fled from north Bengal and took shelter in Assam to escape post-poll violence cannot be described in words. “These people are so terrified that they told me they might be attacked again because I met them. I cannot imagine they are living in such fear. They are facing political vendetta because they opposed the ruling party (in Bengal). I am alerting the government through the media. I will interact with the chief minister,” Dhankhar said in Siliguri after returning from Assam. “There is lawlessness in Bengal,” he added. The governor was supposed to fly to Assam in a Border Security Force (BSF) chopper but the flight had to be cancelled because of bad weather. Dhankhar took a road trip. He was accompanied by the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) Cooch Behar Lok Sabha member Nisith Pramanik. Dhankhar visited Assam’s Dhubri district and interacted with Bengal residents who fled from their homes following post-poll violence allegedly perpetrated by Trinamool Congress (TMC) workers. He met inmates of a relief camp in the Ranpagli area and expressed shock and grief at their plight. He assured that efforts would be taken so that they can return to their homes soon. “The governor interacted with the affected people for nearly an hour and inquired about their condition. At present we have 176 people at Ranpagli and nearly 30 more at another camp in the district. While some have returned to Bengal, these people are afraid to go back as their houses had been allegedly burnt. We are providing them food and other basic necessities. They can stay in Assam as long as they desire. If they wish to go back we will facilitate their return,” said Dhubri superintendent of police Anand Mishra. “The state government must uphold the Constitution. These people must be protected and brought back,” Dhankhar said after returning to Siliguri. He also accused a section of the media saying journalists did not report the plight of people. “I will visit all violence-hit districts of Bengal,” he said. Reacting to this, Bengal panchayat minister Subrata Mukherjee said, “He is the only governor who does not adhere to any article of the Constitution. People died on both sides but he is meeting only BJP supporters. He is taking with him BJP MPs and MLAs. Why doesn’t he join the BJP?” Trinamool Congress (TMC) Rajya Sabha member Sukhendu Sekhar Roy demanded Dhankhar’s removal. Bengal BJP’s chief spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya defended the governor. “He is being targeted everyday by TMC leaders. This is not a healthy trend for democracy,” said Bhattacharya. On Thursday, Dhankhar faced demonstration by a handful of TMC workers at Dinhata in north Bengal’s Cooch Behar district which he visited to meet alleged victims of post-poll violence despite a strong advisory from chief minister Mamata Banerjee. The two exchanged strongly-worded letters on Wednesday evening. Banerjee accused Dhankhar of violating protocols by planning to visit Cooch Behar without the state’s sanction, while the latter accused the CM of showing no regard for the Constitution. North Bengal happens to be a BJP stronghold although it bagged only 77 assembly seats against the TMC’s 213 in the recent polls. In the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, the saffron camp bagged seven of north Bengal region’s eight seats. In the assembly polls, the BJP won 30 of the region’s 54 seats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/what-i-saw-can-t-be-described-dhankhar-on-meeting-people-hiding-in-assam-post-polls-101621020781160.html
15-05-2021||India||21 members of some of oldest tribes in Odisha test positive||Some of Odisha’s and India’s oldest tribes, including a few with barely a few thousand surviving members, have reported 21 Covid-19 cases from among their ranks, after escaping the first wave of the viral pandemic almost untouched -- raising concern about the spread of disease in vulnerable groups in backward areas.The 21 are scattered across eight tribes, and include two from the Bonda habitations of Malkangiri. All infections hav been diagnosed over the past month.“The infections have been reported since last month and we are keeping a close watch over their conditions. Of the 21, a dozen have recovered. All of them were in home isolation and did not require hospitalisation,” said P Arthanari, Project director of Odisha PVTG Empowerment and Livelihood Improvement Programme.The Bondas, scattered across 32 remote hilltop villages in the Eastern Ghats of Malkangiri district are believed to have come to India as part of the first wave of migration out of Africa about 60,000 years ago. They were the first forest settlers in India.Similarly, four tribals from the Dongaria Kondh, another particularly vulnerable tribal group, living in Niyamgiri hills of Rayagada district tested positive on Thursday. Officials said the infected tribals from Parsali grampanchayat of Kalyansinghpur block probably came in contact with Covid positive people in an urban market outside their village area.“As they sometimes visit urban markets we think they have caught the infection there. We have now started a campaign in the Dongaria Kondh villages to ensure that the disease does not spread. We have been teaching people the importance of wearing masks and maintaining social distance in Kui language,” said Rayagada district collector Saroj Kumar Mishra.The infections have been reported from 8 districts including Sundargarh, which is among the top-5 districts of the state in terms of active Covid cases.“We are yet to know how many tribals as a whole have been infected in the second wave. But we guess the numbers would be less than the average in rural areas as tribals maintain social distancing. But we are keeping a clsoe watch,” said Ranana Chopra, secretary of state SC/ST welfare department.Last year, a study by Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes Research and Training Institute, a government-run research institute on tribals found that tribal population in Odisha was largely untouched by the first wave of the pandemic due to their habit of keeping to themselves.Chopra said the state tribal department is now planning to start a five-year health observatory programme in association with Indian Council of Medical Research to monitor the health of tribals in the state. “The programme will begin this year and keep a close watch on overall health of tribal population of the state in an integrated manner.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/21-members-of-some-of-oldest-tribes-in-odisha-test-positive-101621020000058.html
15-05-2021||India||No virtual meetings of House panels possible as of now: RS to Kharge||New Delhi The House committees of Parliament will not be able to meet online amid the raging second wave of the Covid pandemic as the relevant rules have not been amended, a Rajya Sabha communique to leader of the Opposition Mallikarjun Kharge said on Friday. Nearly all meetings of the standing committees have come to a standstill in the past few weeks as lawmakers are unable to come to Delhi amidst the ongoing pandemic. Last week, Kharge appealed to Rajya Sabha chairman Venkaiah Naidu to allow online meetings as many key subjects and issues were pending for discussion. On Friday, the secretariat wrote back saying that the amendments of rules to allow virtual meetings can be taken up only during the next Parliament session. “The issue of confidentiality can be resolved during the session as any amendment to the Rules can be approved by the respective Houses only after the matter is considered by the Rules Committees,” it said. The reply, however, acknowledged that authorities started considering amending rules during the first wave but then the move lost momentum. The letter, signed by a joint secretary, revealed that “in a similar situation during the first wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, Hon’ble Chairman and Hon’ble Speaker (Om Birla) had decided in a meeting that the mater regarding holding of virtual meetings of the parliamentary committees vis-à-vis existing provisions and confidentiality of the proceedings of the committees may be referred to the committee on rules in both the Houses.” “As physical meetings of the Committees were being held regularly, following the guidelines strictly, the matter rested there and the situation had not arisen for considering the matter by the Rules Committees,” the letter added. The communication also suggested that chances of House panels meeting online amid the pandemic were feeble. “The meetings of the committees can be considered shortly once the situation improves for the better,” it said. Opposition leaders rejected this position of the secretariat and made a fresh demand for online meetings. “A wasteful new Parliament building is being constructed in the midst of a national catastrophe, and it is considered an “essential service”. But a simple rule cannot be changed to allow virtual meetings of Standing Committees. Come on Speaker Sir, Chairman Garu!,” tweeted Congress chief whip in the Rajya Sabha Jairam Ramesh. Several key meetings, including the strictly guarded Union cabinet meeting and the PM’s meetings on Covid, are being held digitally for the past several months. Recently, the meeting of the entire council of ministers was conducted online. Authorities, however, pointed out these meetings can be easily held via different platforms, but Parliament has to amend its rule book to allow any deviation from the usual format of MPs gathering at one of the committee rooms to discuss issues, call witnesses or adopt a report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-virtual-meetings-of-house-panels-possible-as-of-now-rs-to-kharge-101621019940601.html
15-05-2021||India||Centre’s vaccine complex in Tamil Nadu seeks bids for production||The central government-owned integrated vaccine complex HLL Biotech Ltd at Chengalpattu, 63km from Chennai, could start producing Covid vaccines in the next six months provided it gets all clearances, a senior company official, who did not wish to be named, said on Friday.The company has started the process to invite tenders for the purpose, he said. Work on the complex started in March 2012 under the UPA-2 government with a capital investment of ₹594 crore. “It’s been wrongly projected that the facility has been lying idle for nine years,” the official said, adding that construction started only in late 2013 and the ground work was completed in 2018.“It could have been completed by 2019 but it has been delayed due to cost escalation. We are in the final stages of completion after which the facility has to go through a WHO GMP (good manufacturing practices) check before it can start manufacturing. We will be ready to start manufacturing vaccines in six months in a phased manner,” he said.The plant, when fully operational, would have capacity to produce one billion vaccines annually, he added.HLL floated an expression of interest in January and was in talks with major and mid-level players, which included pharma companies and biotech groups looking to make an entry into the vaccine market. A tender was floated at the end of March and bids can be submitted till May 31.However, lawyers and political parties said that floating a tender has been used as an excuse and blamed the Union ministry of health and family welfare for the delay.“During a national emergency, where is the question of floating a tender?” said senior advocate and DMK MP, P Wilson. “There are state and central government guidelines (Central Vigilance Commission for Centre and TN Transparency Tender Act 1998) where you can go for a single tender or single source procurement in case of an emergency.”The MP is also appearing in a Madras high court suo moto case regarding Covid-19 preparedness being heard by a division bench comprised of chief justice Sanjib Bannerjee and Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy.“The Additional Solicitor General (ASG R Sankaranarayanan) representing the Centre informed the court on May 10 that the last two times tenders were called, no one had come forward with a bid and that these centres lack the technical know-how to manufacture the two vaccines,” said Wilson. “Since this is a national emergency, you can’t keep on waiting. There is a provision under section 92 of the Patent Act, 1970 which permits the central government to compulsorily license a drug so they don’t need to wait for a player to have a patent right to manufacture the drugs or a vaccine.”On Friday, he wrote to Union health minister Harsh Vardhan to take steps to utilise three vaccine manufacturing centres in Tamil Nadu – King’s Institute at Chennai, Pasteur Institute at Conoor and the Chengalpattu facility – for manufacturing Covid vaccines. One of his suggestions is that Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech be permitted to manufacture Covishield and Covaxin vaccines in these centres.The Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi (VCK)’s Villupuram MP D Ravikumar has also written to the Union health minister, saying Bharat Biotech should share its Covaxin technology with Tamil Nadu so that Covid vaccines can be manufactured as these facilities.On April 23, former chief minister Edappadi Palaniswami had written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and drew his attention to the Chengalpattu facility which he said is structurally and functionally ready and awaiting commissioning and validation. “I am informed that this would be possible if some pending work can be fast-tracked,” Palaniswami had said in his letter. “I would appeal to you to bring this facility to working condition at the earliest, so as to augment the production of Covid vaccines.”Vardhan visited the facility in January when he was in the state to oversee the dry run for vaccination before it was rolled out. While hearing a PIL that sought the Union health ministry to approve the Chengalpattu facility, the Madurai bench of the Madras high court directed the Centre to reply on the number of government-owned vaccine manufacturing institutes, along with its period of commencement of operation, production capacity and present status, and posted the matter for May 19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centres-vaccine-complex-in-tn-seeks-bids-for-production-101621019940096.html
15-05-2021||India||Will supply 19.1 million free vaccines to states, UTs from May 16-31: Centre||The central government will supply at least 19.1 million free Covid-19 vaccine doses to states during the fortnight of May 16 and 31, it announced in a statement on Friday.The allocation is based on consumption pattern and beneficiary load.“The allocation of Govt. of India supplies to the State/UT is decided on the consumption pattern and beneficiary load for second doses during the upcoming fortnight. During the 16th-31st May 2021 fortnight, 191.99 lakh doses of Covishield and Covaxin will be supplied to the States and UTs, free of cost. This will include 162.5 lakh (16.2 million) of Covishield and 29.49 lakh (2.9 million) of Covaxin,” said Union health ministry in a statement.India began implementing the liberalised pricing and accelerated national Covid-19 vaccination strategy from May 1, wherein 50% of the available doses are earmarked for supply to states and Union territories, as free of cost supply from the government of India channel, while the remaining 50% is available for direct procurement from the vaccine manufacturers by states and private hospitals.The delivery schedule for this allocation will be shared in advance, said the Centre while asking states to direct the officials concerned to ensure rational and judicious utilisation of allocated doses and minimise the vaccine wastage.“The basic objective behind informing the States and Union Territories in advance of the quantum of free vaccine doses to be made available from government of India for 15 days is to ensure that they prepare effective plans for judicious and optimum utilisation of these free vaccine doses which are meant for the age group 45 and above, and for health care workers and frontline workers,” the statement further read.In the previous fortnight-- May 1 and 15, a total quantum of at least 17 million (1.7 crore) vaccine doses has been made available by the Centre to all states, free of cost.In addition, a total quantum of at least 43 million (4.39 crore) doses was also available for direct procurement by the states as well as private hospitals this month.“The Centre will continue to support states in vaccinating the vulnerable population group of 45 years and above, health care workers and frontline workers, and for the remaining categories the states and private hospitals are free to directly procure under certain conditions that is to maintain equitable distribution across the country,” said a senior central government official aware of the matter, on condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-supply-19-1-million-free-vaccines-to-states-uts-from-may-16-31-centre-101621019880819.html
15-05-2021||India||Bommai turns residence into 50-bed Covid Care Centre||Bengaluru The residence of Basavaraj Bommai, Karnataka’s ministers for home, law and parliamentary affairs, has been converted into a 50-bed Covid care centre (CCC).Bommai is the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) legislator from Shiggaon constituency in Haveri district, about 334 kms from Bengaluru.“The CCC is in the compound of his home in Shiggaon. This is where people can get primary treatment if their saturation comes down since there will be oxygen concentrators kept here. It is also for people who do not have the facility to Covid-19 infected persons who may not have the facility to isolate at their respective homes,” said one member of the minister’s staff, requesting not to be named.Haveri, one of the most backward districts in the state, has seen a surge of Covid-19 infections in the second wave, which has threatened to overwhelm its existing healthcare infrastructure.Haveri reported 292 new infections and nine fatalities in the 24 hours on Friday. The district has 1,817 active cases.The person cited above said that the minister is planning to station private doctors at this CCC. There are no patients in this facility currently. The space, which is the same compound as the minister’s home, is a permanent structure that is often used to conduct political meetings and host other gatherings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bommai-turns-residence-into-50-bed-covid-care-centre-101621019641958.html
15-05-2021||India||Mismatch between oxygen demand and consumption, according to Karnataka govt data||While the state government maintains that its oxygen requirement is more than 1,700 MT, however, data provided by the government shows that the state’s consumption of oxygen for Covid-19 infected persons was around 723.86 kilo litre (KL) on May 9, registering a marginal increase from 700.74 KL recorded on May 6.While the data does indicate a marginal increase, it shows that there is a gross mismatch between the government’s claim on the state’s demand for oxygen and consumption.“(The) Government of India has a norm and as per that norm Karnataka’s requirement is more than 1,700MT. However, a minimum of 1,200MT immediately will help. Especially, if it’s allotted from within Karnataka,” Munish Moudgil, senior IAS officer and nodal officer for oxygen supplies in the state said. The demand for oxygen in Karnataka is in excess of 1,700 MT out of which the Centre has increased its allocation to around 1,015 MT, according to a statement from the chief minister’s office (CMO).While addressing a press meet on Thursday, chief minister Yediyurappa said, “Centre increased our oxygen supply from 965 MT to 1015 MT. We are getting 765 MT within the state. We are trying to get oxygen from other states as well.”“We have got 100 tons from Kuwait, 400 tons from Bahrain and 120 tons from Jamshedpur. We have installed 120 oxygen plants”, the chief minister said.“Under the chairmanship of Dr Devi Shetty, a task force has been formed to tackle the third wave of Covid-19”, the CM said.  According to a a oxygen guidelines document of the state government, released on May 9, the actual supply of oxygen is lower than the allocations. “The oxygen supply quantities have not increased; but the hospitals in the districts & BBMP are increasing their consumption beyond supplies by increasing oxygenated beds. This is the core reason for hospitals running out of oxygen. This is unsustainable. The consumption has to remain within the available supplies,” the guidelines stated.Moudgil said that buffer oxygen stocks (are) being built at each district to handle any unforeseen shortages.While the government continues to demand for a higher allocation of oxygen, the consumption data shows that the state may have more than it requires to deal with the raging Covid-19 pandemic which continues to have a tightening grip on all 30 districts of the southern state and in Bengaluru. “There is a norm in which 20% of the patients will require oxygen, 17% will require ordinary oxygen at the rate of 10 litres per minute, 3% of patients in ICU will require at least 24 litres per minute. So if you calculate it based on the number of active cases it comes to around 1700 MT. That is the normal basis to calculate the demand,” said one senior government official, aware of the developments. The other way to calculate is our minimum requirement demand comes closer to state’s utilisation of around 1250 MT, the official cited above said, requesting not to be named. Officials said that there is an effort to ensure appropriate use of oxygen to avoid wastage. The data comes days after at least 24 lives were snuffed out in Chamarajanagar district, about 175 kms from Bengaluru, after severe shortage of oxygen.The mismatch adds to the growing lack of transparency from the BS Yediyurappa-led government that has been accused of ignoring warnings in November by a state-appointed technical advisory committee (TAC) to increase preparedness for the imminent second wave of infections. The state is also facing severe crunch of oxygenated beds, life-saving medicines and vaccines, which has forced it suspend the inoculation drive for persons in the 18-44 age group as well other groups. “We are consuming around 26 KL per day and we have an allocation of 22KL. We are managing the rest on our own,” said a senior official from the Belagavi district administration, requesting not to be named.The official said that there was no room to create a buffer due to the increasing demand for oxygen amid the raging pandemic. While the positivity and fatality rate remains alarming across Karnataka, it has shown some signs of plateauing in certain regions like Bengaluru. However, there has been a sharp spike in cases in other districts where the healthcare infrastructure is far more inadequate than the capital, leaving it more vulnerable to the rise in cases and challenges accompanying it. The state on Friday recorded 41,779 cases and 373 fatalites while Bengaluru alone registered 14,376 cases and 121 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mismatch-between-oxygen-demand-and-consumption-according-to-karnataka-govt-data-101621019593844.html
15-05-2021||India||Covaxin manufacturing unit likely to be set up in Kolar district: Dy CM||Bengaluru: Karnataka deputy chief minister and head of state Covid task force, Dr C N Ashwatha Narayana, on Friday announced that a manufacturing plant of indigeneous vaccine Covaxin is likely to be set up in Malur industrial area in Kolar district. Speaking to reporters in Bengaluru, Narayana said: “Malur, which is close to the state capital, has a good transport facility, including train services. The government has approved the project and the company is processing the administrative requisites.” Any company engaged in manufacturing another vaccine Covishield will be welcomed and given cooperation, he said in reply to a query. The announcement comes a day after the Karnataka high court expressed concerns over the shortage of vaccines and delay in administering the second dose in the state. The bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Oka and Justice Aravind Kumar said the state has only 1.1 million vaccines, while there was a need to provide the second dose to at least 3.1 million people.As many as 10.1million people have been vaccinated across the state so far. While 7.36 million have been administered the first dose in the age group above 45 years, 1.73 million have received the second dose in the same category.“As NITI Aayog has informed, there will be a production of 40 crore doses of vaccine in the country in the month of August and this is a positive development. So far, 19 crore doses of vaccines have been administered in the country. The Centre is promoting vaccine companies in all possible ways. The Prime Minister is also negotiating with other countries about relaxation of patent norms with regard to COVID vaccine and if this becomes fruitful, many more vaccine manufacturing plants will come up in the state,” he said. Covaxin is developed by Bharat Biotech in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research and National Institute of Virology. Covishield, on the other hand, is developed by Oxford-Astrazeneca but manufactured by Serum Institute of India in the country.Besides announcing the manufacturing plant, the deputy chief minister said that in order to combat the second wave and as a preparation to face the possible third wave, every assembly constituency in the state will need to have a 100-bedded hospital with oxygenated and ICU beds and measures have already been initiated to meet this requirement. He also informed that there was a good inflow of Corporate Social Responsibility funds and support for the Chief Minister’s relief fund besides aid from the central government. Senior officer Selva Kumar and CSR, in charge of the state, Uma Mahadevan are monitoring this, Narayana said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covaxin-manufacturing-unit-likely-to-be-set-up-in-kolar-district-dy-cm-101621019593195.html
15-05-2021||India||All 30 districts in state record deaths as Covid rages on||Bengaluru All 30 districts of Karnataka reported at least one Covid-19 fatality in the 24 hours on Thursday, government data shows, indicating the severity of the second wave of infections in the southern state. Out of the 373 fatalities, 121 were in Bengaluru, according to the daily bulletin of the state health department. The mineral-rich district of Ballari, about 320 kms from Bengaluru, reported 26 fatalities while there were 21 in Kalaburagi, 20 in Hassan, 19 in Tumakuru, 15 in Uttara Kannada, 13 each in Ramanagara and Mandya, 12 each in Mysuru and Bengaluru Rural, according to the data. The fatality rate was at 0.89%. The rise in deaths comes at a time when the Covid- 19 infections appear to be moving towards the rural areas of Karnataka, sparking fears of a collapse of the health care system, which is far more inadequate than in Bengaluru. Karnataka registered 41,779 new infections that take its active caseload to 598,605, one of the highest in India. Positivity rate stood at 32.86%, according to the bulletin. Bengaluru recorded 14,316 new infections that take its active caseload to 360,862. The BS Yediyurappa government has been unable to cope with the rising demand for hospital beds, oxygen, life-saving medicines and even space in crematoriums. The state has also suspended its vaccination drive for people in the 18-44 age group due to acute shortage of vaccines. However, the state received Covaxin doses on Friday. “Karnataka received 75,000 doses of Covaxin from Union Govt today. So far state has received 1,10,49,470 doses from GoI incl 99,58,190 doses of Covishield and 10,91,280 doses of Covaxin. I thank PM@narendramodi ji and @drharshvardhan ji for their continued support to Karnataka,” K Sudhakar, Karnataka’s minister for health, family welfare and medical education, said in a post on Twitter. The supply is unlikely to last for long even at the slow pace of vaccinations in Karnataka. There were 56,350 vaccinations done till 3.30 pm on Friday that take the total to 11,051,982, according to the health bulletin. However, 2,396,806 people have received both doses, data shows. The state government said that the second dose for Covishield has been extended to a gap of 12-16 weeks after the first dose. “Government of India has informed that based on the recommendation of National Technical Advisory Group of Immunization (NTAGI) and National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration (NEGVAC), the second dose of Covishield vaccine should be administered to eligible beneficiaries at 12 to 16 weeks interval after receiving the first dose,” the state government said in a statement. “Citizens are requested not to come to vaccination centres if they have not completed 12 weeks after the first dose of Covishield vaccine,” according to the statement. The same is not applicable to Covaxin, the government said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/all-30-districts-in-state-record-deaths-as-covid-rages-on-101621019520060.html
15-05-2021||India||‘Callousness’: Probe indicts Chamarajanagar hospital, officials for 24 deaths||Bengaluru: The findings of a report on the death of 24 people on May 2 due to lack of oxygen in Chamarajanagar have revealed that apart from the inefficiency from senior hospital staff and district administration, there was an attempt to tamper with documents after the tragedy.The committee of the Karnataka State Legal Services Authority (KSLSA), headed by retired judge of the High Court Justice AN Venugopala Gowda, in its report pointed at the lack of leadership from the dean of Chamarajanagar Institute of Medical Sciences (CIMS), its district surgeon, and a microbiologist, resulted in the failure to efficiently marshal the available resource.The report was submitted before the high court on Wednesday in a sealed document.Apart from the 24 people who died on May 2, another 62 patients died at the hospital between May 4 and May 10 – at least 36 of whom were admitted at the hospital on May 2 night, when the oxygen supply was disrupted for several hours. “The death of these 36 inpatients could be attributed to non-availability of oxygen supply during the night of May 2 and early hours of May 3,” the report said.According to the panel, the deaths could have been averted if authorities had acted on time. “Had the hospital administration been vigilant, it could have had enough oxygen by timely refilling of cylinders. With the bottling plant at a distance of about 70 km, not having sufficient filled oxygen cylinders at Chamarajanagar is an act of callousness and led to the loss of dozens of precious lives,” the report added.The panel found that the truck transporting the oxygen cylinders should have reached Chamarajanagar by 2 am, but instead it stopped at a refilling agency to load another 30 cylinders. It reached the hospital at 6 am on May 3, the report said.Talking about the district administration, the report said the deputy commissioner, Chamarajanagar has not exhibited the dynamism and the leadership qualities expected of a district head in a dire crisis situation. “The Deputy Commissioner of Chamarajanagar, as chairman of the District Disaster Management Committee, miserably failed to guide and supervise the crisis situation arising out of extreme demand for oxygen. On the contrary, he indulged in an unsavoury blame game accusing the District Commissioner of Mysuru of causing hindrance for oxygen supply without any basis,” the report stated.The committee also noted that the district commissioner, Mysuru, did not get in the way of agencies in Mysuru refilling oxygen cylinders of any other districts, including Chamarajanagar.“Cumulatively, the failure of the district administration in general and the hospital authorities in particular, including the Dean of CIMS, is apparent. A detailed probe alone can unearth the acts of omissions and commissions of the concerned individuals for fixing the responsibility,” the report added.The committee in its report pointed out incidents of possible tampering with the records. One of the incidents of tampering was noticed by the committee during the examination of the Liquid Medical Oxygen (LMO) register. “The examination of LMO register maintained from 29.04.2021 and two oxygen consumption registers maintained by the Bio-Medical Engineer, prima facie reveals that there has been manipulation by tampering of the registers. In the LMO register page No. 3 and 4 are missing,” the report said.Earlier, taking suo motu cognizance of the 24 deaths at two Covid-19 hospitals in a span of 24 hours on May 2 allegedly due to shortage of oxygen, the high court on May 4 had suggested a judicial probe by a retired judge into the matter. The state government had subsequently formed a one-member committee to probe into the matter.The committee report also observed discrepancies in the preparation of the case sheets of the deceased. “The entries in the case sheets, 28 made by one particular doctor and one case sheet by another doctor, appeared to have been made in one go,” the report said. Some factual details were not entered in the case sheets with reference to even the time and date of death, while a number of printed forms were blank, without the particulars of the patient but contained only the signature of the medical officer, the report added.Meanwhile, the Karnataka high court on Thursday sought a response from the state government on paying compensation to the families of those who died in the tragedy. Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Aravind Kumar said the state government was liable to compensate the families, and it has to answer two issues raised by the report.First, how will the state government compensate families that have lost their dear ones due to its failure and second aspect of the report is on the government taking a decision on fixing responsibility on individual officers for their lapses, the court asked the state government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/oxygen-shortage-led-to-24-deaths-in-chamarajanagar-report-101621019461104.html
15-05-2021||India||YSRC MP, who criticised CM Jagan Mohan Reddy, held for sedition||YSR Congress lawmaker Kanumuri Raghurama Krishnam Raju was arrested in Hyderabad by Andhra Pradesh’s Crime Investigation Department (CID) on Friday on charges of sedition, disturbing communal harmony and attacking dignitaries of the Jagan Mohan Reddy government, the police said in a statement.A police statement issued after his arrest said a preliminary inquiry against the MP “found that through his speeches on regular basis Mr Raju was indulging in systematic, schematic effort to cause tensions among the communities and by attacking various government dignitaries in a way which will cause loss of faith in the government which they represent”.The arrest comes weeks after Kanumuri Raghurama Krishnam Raju, an outspoken critic of his party chief and Andhra Pradesh chief minister YSR Jagan Mohan Reddy for nearly a year, asked a special CBI special court on April 27 to cancel the bail granted to Jagan Mohan Reddy. He alleged that the chief minister, released on bail in an alleged disproportionate assets case pending since 2012, had been violating the bail conditions. This request is pending before the judge who asked the CBI and Jagan Mohan Reddy to respond to the charge.Raju, who represents Narasapuram parliamentary constituency in West Godavari district, was in Hyderabad to celebrate his 59th birthday on Friday when a CID police led by R Vijaya Paul, additional superintendent of police, Guntur, arrested him.The CID statement said a case had been registered against the MP under Section 124-A (sedition) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), for alleged comments against the Jagan Mohan Reddy government, damaging its reputation and inciting hatred among the people. The police have also invoked Section 153 (b) (making comments causing communal disharmony or affecting national integration) and Section 505 (making statements with public mischief) against the MP.Raju’s son K Bharat told reporters that the CID team forcibly took away his father without disclosing any reasons.“They didn’t even tell us where my father is being taken. How can the cops arrest an MP at a time when the coronavirus pandemic is so severe?” he asked.Bharat said he would file a petition in court against his father’s “illegal arrest”.This isn’t the first time that Raju, a well-known industrialist in the West Godavari district, has gone against Jagan Reddy. Raju quit the party in 2014 after he didn’t get a ticket to contest the Lok Sabha general elections and crossed over to the BJP. He exited the BJP in 2018 and switched to the Telugu Desam Party before returning to the YSR Congress in March 2019 in time for the Lok Sabha elections.Raju was elected to the Lok Sabha but had a falling out with Jagan Mohan Reddy again last year. He was issued a show-cause notice by the party in June 2020. Jagan Mohan Reddy hasn’t suspended him so far but in October last year, it did ask Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla to disqualify him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ysrc-mp-who-criticised-jagan-held-for-sedition-101621018740007.html
15-05-2021||India||Policy update deadline today: Whatsapp says users will not lose features||Mobile messaging service provider WhatsApp said on Friday that its users will not lose functionality on May 15 if they do not agree to their contentious new privacy policy, confirming that it had pushed back its deadline for a roll-out that initially was meant to leave people with no option but to agree with the policy if they wanted to keep using the app.The statement came as reports indicated that the company could gradually put some functionality out of users’ reach, before eventually leaving users with no choice but to delete the app. “WhatsApp continues to provide an important way for friends and family to stay in touch during this difficult time. While the majority of users have already approved our update, no one will lose functionality on May 15 if they haven’t yet and we’ll be sure to provide reminders at a later time,” a company spokesperson said. “We want everyone to know that this update does not impact the privacy of personal messages,” the statement added.On Friday, The Guardian reported that beginning May 15, people will be unable to dismiss the screen asking them to accept the new terms, although they will still be able to receive calls, and reply to messages through notifications. “In time, however, even that will be disabled, leaving users with no choice but to accept the new rules, or delete their accounts entirely,” the report said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/policy-update-deadline-today-whatsapp-says-users-will-not-lose-features-101621018407809.html
15-05-2021||India||Monsoon may arrive early, to reach Kerala by May 31: IMD||The monsoon is likely to arrive over Kerala on May 31, a day ahead of its normal onset date of June 1, scientists at the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said as part of their forecast for the annual summer rain season that is crucial for the country’s farm-dependent economy.The southwest monsoon normally hits Kerala on June 1 and covers the rest of the country by mid-July. The last time monsoon onset was ahead of its arrival date was in 2018, when it hit Kerala on May 29.“This year, the onset of the southwest monsoon over Kerala is likely to be on May 31st with a model error of plus or minus 4 days,” IMD said in a statement on Friday.Earlier this week, private weather forecasting company Skymet Weather also projected an earlier onset date of May 30 with an error margin of +/-2 days.CYCLONE IMPACT?Normally, initial monsoon rains hit south Andaman Sea and monsoon winds then advance north-westwards across the Bay of Bengal. As per IMD, the monsoon typically advances over the Andaman Sea around May 22.This time, a depression over Lakshadweep area that is likely to intensify into a cyclonic storm and move north towards the south Gujarat coast in the next few days has strengthened wind systems over the Arabian Sea. These winds, in turn, may drive initial monsoon advance over Andaman and Nicobar Islands around May 21, a day ahead of normal schedule.Scientists say that although this is a possibility, it does not necessarily affect monsoon onset schedule.“The development of cyclone Tauktae will definitely strengthen cross equatorial flow and help in strengthening monsoon flows. But we cannot link the cyclone with advancement in monsoon onset date directly,” explained OP Sreejith, scientist and head, Climate Monitoring and Prediction Group (CMPG) at IMD Pune.Past data suggests there is no association of the date of monsoon advance over Andaman Sea either with the date of monsoon onset over Kerala or with the seasonal monsoon rainfall over the country, IMD also said in a statement on Friday.However, Skymet Weather said that the onset could be influenced by oceanic conditions in the Arabian Sea and Bay of Bengal, and that the “likely cyclone formation in the Arabian Sea will be consequential for advance of monsoon stream over Indian waters”.“...tropical storm Tauktae will vacate the Indian region by May 22 following which the westerly winds and cross equatorial flow will strengthen over Arabian Sea. This also will be assisted by the MJO (Madden Julian Oscillation) entering Indian Ocean with moderate amplitude. Pre-monsoon showers will be intense and hefty over Kerala,” Skymet Weather said in a statement on Thursday.IMD has been issuing forecasts for the date of monsoon onset over Kerala since 2005 and has developed a statistical model that accounts for an error of ± 4 days for this purpose. The model accounts for six factors to forecast monsoon’s timeline, including minimum temperatures over northwest India, pre-monsoon rainfall peak over south peninsula and tropospheric winds over southeast Indian Ocean among others.IMD said last month that India is likely to see a normal monsoon this year, with rains expected to be around 98% of the long period average (LPA) .The LPA is the average rainfall -- 88 cm -- recorded from 1961 to 2010. IMD considers rainfall between 96% to 104% of LPA to be in the “normal” range for the country.The monsoon season is crucial for summer crops and brings about 70% of India’s annual rainfall. Adequate monsoon rain affects farm produce, and is a lifeline for about 60% of the country’s net cultivated area that relies on annual showers for irrigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monsoon-may-arrive-early-to-reach-kerala-by-may-31-imd-101621018560006.html
15-05-2021||India||Odisha transfers aid of ₹920 crore to accounts of farmers hit by Covid-19 induced lockdown||As lakhs of small and marginal farmers in Odisha face uncertain times due to the Covid-19 induced lockdown, the state government on Friday transferred of ₹920 crore to the bank accounts of 42 lakh farmer families in Odisha under the Krushak Assistance for Livelihood and Income Augmentation (KALIA) scheme, its flagship farmer welfare scheme.The assistance of ₹920 crore includes ₹556.64 crore given by the Centre under the PM Kisan scheme for Kharif-2021. Since 2020-21, the KALIA scheme has been merged with the PM-KISAN programme with the Centre giving ₹6000 a year to small and marginal farmers annually while the state provides ₹4,000 a year.Chief minister Naveen Patnaik said though the state is currently facing the second wave of Covid-19 and undergoing lockdown, there are no restrictions for agricultural activities. The farmers can carry out agricultural activities with adherence to Covid-19 guidelines.Under the scheme, financial assistance is provided to small and marginal farmers so that they can purchase inputs like seeds, fertilizers, pesticides and use assistance towards labour and other investments.This apart, financial assistance is provided to each landless agricultural household for agriculture allied activities like small goat rearing unit, mini-layer unit, fishery kits for fisherman, mushroom cultivation and bee-keeping, etc.Vulnerable cultivators and landless agricultural labourers will get financial assistance of ₹10,000 per family per year to enable them to take care of their sustenance.The assistance is also likely to help lakhs of dairy farmers who have been left high and dry by the two-week long lockdown. The Odisha State Cooperative Milk Producers’ Federation Limited, the apex body of milk producers and other cooperative unions, has reduced its milk procurement from 5.45 lakh litres a day to 3.75 lakh litres a day during the lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-transfers-aid-of-rs-920-crore-to-accounts-of-farmers-hit-by-covid-19-induced-lockdown-101621018081798.html
15-05-2021||India||‘Lawlessness in Bengal’: Governor visits violence victims in Assam camps||West Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Friday said the fear he saw in the eyes of people who allegedly fled from north Bengal and took shelter in Assam to escape post-poll violence could not be described in words.“These people are so terrified that they told me they might be attacked again because I met them. I cannot imagine they are living in such fear. They are facing political vendetta because they opposed the ruling party (in Bengal). I am alerting the government through the media. I will interact with the chief minister,” Dhankhar said in Siliguri after returning from Assam.“There is lawlessness in Bengal,” he said.The governor was scheduled to fly to Assam in a Border Security Force (BSF) helicopter but the flight had to be cancelled because of bad weather. Dhankhar took a road trip. He was accompanied by the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) Cooch Behar Lok Sabha member Nisith Pramanik.Dhankhar visited Assam’s Dhubri district and interacted with Bengal residents who fled their homes following post-poll violence allegedly perpetrated by Trinamool Congress (TMC) workers. He met inmates of a relief camp in the Ranpagli area and expressed shock and grief at their plight. He assured that efforts would be made so that they could return to their homes soon.“The governor interacted with the affected people for nearly an hour and inquired about their condition. At present we have 176 persons at Ranpagli and nearly 30 more at another camp in the district. While some have returned to Bengal, these people are afraid to go back as their houses had been allegedly burnt. We are providing them food and other basic necessities. They can stay in Assam as long as they desire. If they wish to go back we will facilitate their return,” said Dhubri superintendent of police Anand Mishra.“The state government must uphold the Constitution. These people must be protected and brought back,” Dhankhar said after returning to Siliguri. He also blamed a section of the media, saying that journalists did not report the plight of people. “I will visit all violence-hit districts of Bengal,” he said.Reacting to this, Bengal panchayat minister Subrata Mukherjee said, “He is the only governor who does not adhere to any article of the Constitution. People died on both sides but he is meeting only BJP supporters. He is taking with him BJP MPs and MLAs. Why doesn’t he just join the BJP?”Trinamool Congress (TMC) Rajya Sabha member Sukhendu Sekhar Roy demanded Dhankhar’s removal.Bengal BJP’s chief spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya defended the governor. “He is being targeted everyday by TMC leaders. This is not a healthy trend for a democracy,” said Bhattacharya.On Thursday, Dhankhar faced a demonstration by a handful of TMC workers at Dinhata in north Bengal’s Cooch Behar district which he visited to meet alleged victims of post-poll violence despite a strong advisory from chief minister Mamata Banerjee.The two exchanged strongly worded letters on Wednesday evening. While Banerjee accused Dhankhar of violating protocols by planning to visit Cooch Behar without the state’s sanction, the latter accused Banerjee of showing no regard for the Constitution.North Bengal happens to be a BJP stronghold although it bagged only 77 assembly seats against the TMC’s 213 in the recent polls. In the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, the saffron camp bagged seven of the north Bengal region’s eight seats. In the assembly polls, the BJP won 30 of the region’s 54 seats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lawlessness-in-bengal-guv-visits-violence-victims-in-assam-camps-101621017780543.html
15-05-2021||India||Veteran journalist AR Wig dies of Covid at 81||Veteran journalist AR Wig, 81, a former senior editor at Hindustan Times, died on Friday morning due to Covid-19 related complications at the Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality hospital.An ace crime reporter early in his career, Wig worked with Hindustan Times for over four decades until his retirement as a coordinating editor in 2007. He joined HT in the early 1960s, and was appointed Metro Editor in 1984.As the head of the newspaper’s metro section, he led the coverage of the Capital’s most important issues, and mentored several young journalists.He also wrote a popular column, Take it from Me.Wig, who lived in south Delhi’s Vasant Enclave, was the president of the Press Club of India between 2004 and 2005.“Mr. Wig was the lighthouse of the Press Club of India. He was an institution unto himself. In his passing, we have lost a guardian,” PCI said in a statement.Wig’s wife Indira, a school teacher, died in 2011. His younger son, Tarun died in September last year.Wig’s elder son, Ashish Wig, who lives in the US, said, “He was a lion who had all traits of a good leader. He remained very active. He taught journalism and mentored so many journalists.”The Indian Women’s Press Corps also issued a statement in honour of the veteran journalist: “IWPC condoles the demise of veteran journalist, AR Wig. A mentor to many prominent journalists, Wig Saheb was also Press Club of India president.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/veteran-journalist-ar-wig-dies-of-covid-at-81-101621017479997.html
15-05-2021||India||Karnataka reports deaths in all 30 districts as Covid-19 surge moves to rural areas||All 30 districts of Karnataka reported at least one Covid-19 fatality in 24 hours on Thursday; data shows, indicating the severity of the second wave of infections in the southern state. Out of the 373 fatalities, 121 were in Bengaluru, according to the daily bulletin of the state health department. The mineral-rich district of Ballari, about 320 km from Bengaluru, reported 26 fatalities while there were 21 in Kalaburagi, 20 in Hassan, 19 in Tumakuru, 15 in Uttara Kannada, 13 each in Ramanagara and Mandya, 12 each in Mysuru and Bengaluru Rural, according to data. The fatality rate was at 0.89%. The rise in deaths come at a time when the Covid- 19 infection appears to be moving towards the rural areas of Karnataka, sparking fears of a collapse of the healthcare system which is far more inadequate than in Bengaluru. Karnataka registered 41,779 new infections that take its active caseload to 5,98,605, one of the highest in India. The positivity rate stood at 32.86%, according to the bulletin. Bengaluru recorded 14,316 new infections that take its active caseload to 360,862. The BS Yediyurappa-led government has been unable to cope with the rising demand for hospital beds, oxygen, life-saving medicines and even space in crematoriums. The state has also suspended its vaccination drive for people between 18-44 years of age due to acute shortage of vaccines. However, the state received a short supply of Covaxin on Friday. “Karnataka received 75,000 doses of Covaxin from Union Govt today. So far state has received 1,10,49,470 doses from GoI incl 99,58,190 doses of Covishield and 10,91,280 doses of Covaxin. I thank PM@narendramodi ji and @drharshvardhan ji for their continued support to Karnataka,” K Sudhakar, Karnataka’s minister for health, family welfare and medical education said in a post on Twitter. The supply is unlikely to last for very long even at the slow pace of vaccinations in Karnataka. There were 56,350 vaccinations done till 3.30 pm on Friday that takes the total to 11051982, according to the health bulletin. However, only 23,96,806 people have received both doses, data shows.The state government said that the second dose for Covishield has been extended to a gap of 12-16 weeks after the first dose.“Government of India has informed that based on the recommendation of the National Technical Advisory Group of Immunization (NTAGI) and National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration (NEGVAC) the second dose of Covishield vaccine should be administered to eligible beneficiaries at 12 to 16 weeks interval after receiving the first dose,” the state government said in a statement. “Citizens are requested not to come to vaccination centres if they have not completed 12 weeks after the first dose of the Covishield vaccine,” the statement read. The same is not applicable to Covaxin, the government said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-reports-deaths-in-all-30-districts-as-covid-19-surge-moves-to-rural-areas-101621017240769.html
15-05-2021||India||Covid-19 vaccine: Over 1 million receive second jab as Delhi stares at shortage||Over a million people in the national capital have been completely vaccinated against Covid-19 as on Friday, even as most inoculation centres remained shut on the day on account of Eid-Ul-Fitr.Government data shows that so far, Delhi has administered 4.37 million doses of the Covid-19 vaccines. Of these, over one million were second doses, which means the recipients have completed their two-jab regimen of the Covid-19 vaccine.Meanwhile, the city continued to run its inoculation programme for the 18-44 age group with only Covishield doses, with stocks of Covaxin running out on Thursday.As on Friday, the Delhi government had 346,000 doses of vaccine left, all of them Covishield jabs.Click here for complete Covid-19 coverage“Covaxin stock for the 18-44 years beneficiary group is over and the Covishield stock for this group should last another eight days. This has led to temporary suspension of around 140 vaccine centres. We have urged the central government to intervene in this regard and ensure that Delhi gets supply of Covaxin at the earliest. A large number of beneficiaries also have their second doses scheduled now. They have to be vaccinated,” said AAP legislator Atishi while reading out the Delhi government’s vaccine bulletin on Friday.The Capital will need a total of 30 million doses to inoculate its 15 million adult population, according to state government estimates.Delhi is also staring at a shortage of vaccines for those aged 45 and above.“We have a stock of 225,110 doses for this age group. The Covaxin stock should last for three days, while Covishield will last two. More doses are expected to arrive soon for this category, especially Covishield,” said Atishi on Friday’s vaccine bulletin.There was no clarity on when the Covishield doses are likely to arrive.Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain on Friday said India should float tenders for vaccines in the global market as one nation, instead of asking states to go for it in individual capacity, reiterating a request made by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal a day earlier.“India is one nation, and one tender policy should be implemented, rather than a state-wise tender which will only create more confusion and heat between states which are going to procure vaccines. A state-wise tender will also put India in a bad light. Like there is one Indian embassy in each country, there should be one tender for the procurement of vaccines from this international market,” said Jain in a separate press briefing.He further said, “Nonetheless, I believe that India has the most renowned vaccine manufacturers in the world. I am aware of at least 30 prominent companies who have the capacity to prepare them if they are given the required formula from the makers of Covishield and Covaxin. The centre itself is an owner of Covaxin, and may submit the formula to other companies so that they are equipped to make the vaccines by themselves. At the same time, the centre has exported nearly 6.5 Cr vaccines to various countries. Now, they are asking us to purchase them from these international markets, which is quite strange and uncanny.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-a-million-people-in-delhi-fully-vaccinated-against-covid-19-but-stocks-fast-running-out-govt-101621017121301.html
15-05-2021||India||Delhi has no space to bury the young who succumb to Covid-19||On Thursday, when 59-year-old Jitender Singh Shunty, a former legislator who has been helping with Covid-19 cremations at the Seemapuri crematorium, held the lifeless body of nine-month-old Krishu, his hands trembled. Over the past two months, since the second wave of the pandemic hit the national capital, he has helped cremate over 2,000 infected dead, but Krishu’s body, barely weighing eight kilos, was the heaviest he has had to carry.Krishu was the second infant to be buried at the Seemapuri crematorium in the span of two days. On Wednesday, five-month-old Pari, who was also Covid-19 positive, was buried at the same crematorium.“In the past 15 days, we have received the bodies of three infants and one of an unborn child. We generally do not cremate the bodies of children -- we either bury them or let the river carry them away. But amid this severe wave of the pandemic, there is fear that the infection would spread if infant bodies are set afloat in the river,” Shunty said.Based on observations from hospital admissions, medical experts the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic is taking a toll on children, with several hospitals seeing more children -- some as young as a month old -- being admitted with the viral infection. While there were few children being admitted to the hospital in the first wave, the admissions this time around are more, the experts said.In fact, nearly 50% of children surveyed during the fifth round of the serological survey in Delhi, which was conducted in January 2021, were found to have antibodies against Covid-19, suggesting that children are as exposed to the infection as adults.Shashank Shekhar, Krishu’s father, said his only child tested positive for Covid on Monday and was admitted to east Delhi’s Guru Teg Bahadur (GTB) Hospital on Tuesday, after his blood oxygen levels dipped to 31 (the optimum is 90% or above). He died on Thursday. Krishu’s mother had tested positive 18 days ago and the child may have caught the infection from her, he said.A day before that, five-month-old Pari had succumbed to pneumonia and cardiac arrest, triggered by Covid, at the GTB hospital. Shaheed Bhagat Singh Sewa Dal volunteers, who work at the Seemapuri cremation facility, said the bodies of Krishu and Pari are buried side by side in a vacant space near the cremation platforms.Vacant space, to bury the very young, is what the city lacks at present. With the river mostly carrying away the bodies of children, the city has never had to make provisions for infant burials and that, too, multiple burials at a time or in the space of a few days, say managers of cremation facilities.The larger crematoriums such as the Nigambodh Ghat and the Ghazipur facility have no provision to take bodies of infants.“We do not take the bodies of infants and children, even of those infected by Covid. We do not have the provision or the space to accommodate them. Also, there is no separate protocol for the last rites of children affected by coronavirus,” said Suman Gupta, general secretary of the Nigambodh Ghat Sanchalan Samiti, the body that manages the Nigambodh Ghat crematorium.The three municipalities, which are responsible for the cremation facilities in Delhi, are now looking at options to dedicate space for infant burials.“It has come to our notice that there is no space to bury the young, who succumb to Covid-19. We have scheduled a meeting with officials of the north corporation (North Delhi Municipal Corporation) on Monday to discuss land that can be dedicated for such burials,” said Jai Prakash, north Delhi mayor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-has-no-space-to-bury-the-young-who-succumb-to-covid-101621017119939.html
15-05-2021||India||As Covid second wave persists, MGNREGS comes to rural India’s rescue, yet again||The Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) has witnessed the sharpest year-on-year increase in employment generation in its history in April 2021, government data shows, in a sign that the second Covid wave has caused major reverse migration adding to rural economic distress.According to rural development ministry data, around 22 million households have got work under the job guarantee in the month of April 2021, which is almost double the number of homes getting work in April 2020.To be sure, NREGS was suspended in several states in the first fortnight of April 2020 due to a national lockdown. But even if one compares data from mid-April 2020 (when NREGS resumed in full swing across India) to May 12 last year with data for the corresponding period this year, the surge in demand indicates that economic distress in rural areas has returned, with close to 80% of India closed due to lockdowns imposed by state governments as Covid cases surged in second part of April and first week of May.The job guarantee law provides for minimum 100 days of work in a year but not more than 10% of the households enrolled get that amount of work. The average is 40 to 50 days in a year. The Centre is 2020-21 provided ₹115,000 crore for the scheme.The pandemic and jobsSome studies on efficacy of MGNREGS during pandemic in the past one year have shown that the world’s biggest job guarantee scheme has provided an economic cushion of up to ₹22,000 to every poor households able to get up to 100 days of work.Unlike the pre-pandemic period, the rural development ministry’s data showed that employment under NREGS remained high throughout 2020-21 financial year, even though the peak was close to 35 million households getting work in May and June of 2020. On average, the ministry data showed, 22 million households every month got work from July 2020 to March 2021.Also Read | Origins of Covid-19 need to be investigated further, leading scientists sayIn pre-pandemic era, the highest employment generated under the scheme used to be in months of April to June and lowest during the rainy season (July to September). The monthly average for April-June in financial year 2018-19 was 22 million households, and during rainy season, it came down to 14 million households per month. The only exception was during drought when the states increased employment from 100 to 150 days.The ministry’s data also shows that 18.1 million new households got job cards during the pandemic hinting that some of the people, who had returned from cities to villages during the first Covid wave, never returned to urban areas. Most of the new jobs cards were issued in Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Odisha, West Bengal and Rajasthan, states having high work related migratory population.“The data clearly shows that many people in rural India continued to suffer from the pandemic trauma even months after the first wave subsided and work re-started in cities. They were not willing to go back and joined NREGS,” said MS Raunaq, who works with the People’s Action for Employment Guarantee (PAEG), a group of activists and academics working to monitor implement of NREGS since 2004, when the law was approved.Nikhil Dey of Mazdoor Kisan Shakti Sangathan said all data and studies have shown that NREGS proved to be the lifeline for the poor and deprived during pandemic. “On an average, a family got ₹22,000 a year which was a big cushion in absence of any other employment avenue,” he said.Over 70 million households got work under the scheme in 2020-21 financial year and 72,000 households got 100 days of work, ministry’s data shows.Across states, a spike in demandUnlike the 2020 lockdown, when even industries were closed, the 2021 version has factories functioning. Despite that, a large number of workers from cities have returned, a reason for the spurt in NREGS employment.“The only plausible reason for spurt in NREGS work demand in April-May period, which is also a harvest season in most parts of India, is return of workers from cities,” said Nikhil Dey.Reetika Khera, a development economist with the Indian Institute of Technology, Delhi, said this period sees reverse migration because many return to harvest their crops and then go back to cities for work by June-end after sowing the next crop. Because of lockdown in Maharashtra and a spurt in Covid cases in Gujarat, a large number of workers from there returned in the last week of March and April first week and that trend is getting reflected to some extent in the data, experts say. Unlike 2020, the states don’t have any data on the migrants who have returned.The rural development ministry’s data shows that there is 10% more demand for work this year as compared to last year, which witnessed highest ever work demand in 15-year of MGNREGA that was implemented in 2005.In Uttar Pradesh, a northern state seeing an increase in work demand, officials said, the spike was on the expected lines. The number of households that demanded work in April 2021 was 1,092,470, of which work was provided to 675,118 households. In May, 275,084 households have demanded work. “If there an unexpected surge, we would allocate more work to NREGS workers,” said a rural development department official.In another high migrant worker flow state, Bihar, there is a 100% increase in NGREGS work demand in April 2021 as compared to April 2020. “In April this year, about 23.7 million mandays were created as compared to 12.2 million mandays in the same period last year,” said CP Khanduja, director-cum-commissioner, NREGS. Bihar’s labour resources minister Jibesh Kumar added that the government was committed to provide jobs to all skilled and unskilled workers in the state. “Steps have been initiated in this regard,” he added.In Madhya Pradesh, which saw a large number of workers returning from Maharashtra, Gujarat and Andhra Pradesh in March-April this year, there is a 15% increase in NREGS work demand. Panchayat and rural development principal secretary, Umakant Umrao, said, “Active NREGS workers in MP are at an all-time high. Most of the active workers belong to districts where a large number of people migrate to other states.” He added that most of them are being engaged in community work.Safety valve, but unfinished projects There is also a flip side to the NREGS story in the pandemic. According to the ministry data, only 19.49% of the works taken up in 2020-21 financial year could be completed, which is the lowest work completion rate in the last decade of the scheme.Also Read | India receives shipment of ventilators, Remdesivir from European UnionThe rate fell from 96.89% in 2018-19 to 65.32% in 2019-20 to less than 20% in last fiscal, which officials said shows poor monitoring at the state level for works undertaken. The work completion rate was 6% in UP, 9% in Assam and 11% in Odisha. Rajasthan had highest rate of 74%.“Many states have promised to improve the work completion rate this year,” a ministry official said, adding that in the pandemic, providing succour to the poor through work was a priority.Dey said some states had to stop works in between as the workers enrolled under NREGS returned to cities when the situation improved in months of October-November. “Also, there was delay at panchayat level in providing work completion certificate,” he added.Is there a fund crunch? An official of West Bengal government, requesting anonymity, said the Centre’s decision to cut the allocation for NREGS by 30% in the budget for 2021 as compared to money provided in 2020-21 fiscal year shows the government’s intention of reducing employment under the scheme. “We are facing problem in paying wages of NREGA workers regularly. Efforts are on to pay wages for April month from our own resources as Centre is yet to release advance funds,” he said.However, the rural development ministry officials said money will not be a constraint as NREGS is a demand driven scheme, to which the Centre is committed to provide funds for the work generated. The ministry has already increased the budget of person days of work from 335.7 million days for April to 799.4 million days for May, an increase of 140%. In May, 2020, the ministry had provided for 676.3 million days.(With inputs from bureau in Patna, Lucknow and Bhopal)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-covid-second-wave-persists-mgnregs-comes-to-rural-india-s-rescue-yet-again-101620976797618.html
15-05-2021||Today's||Address the needs of domestic workers||The second wave of Covid-19 will have a significant impact on women workers. Among those hardest hit are domestic workers, a substantial number of them being women. Many have lost their livelihoods and income.The nature of their work — which involves entering the homes of their employers — made them such an integral component to the infrastructure of care in urban India (though, to be sure, the element of exploitation was deeply entrenched). But it is precisely the nature of this work, coupled with shocking levels of employer insensitivity, which have led to many being sacked from homes where they may have worked for years.A study conducted by the Institute of Social Studies Trust (ISST) last year in Delhi found that women domestic workers were undergoing stress over the uncertainty of their work prospects and finding the resources to manage their homes. Many of their husbands had lost their jobs at that time. Since many were from other states, they often fell between the cracks when it came to accessing government relief packages or benefits. The situation has only worsened now with the second wave.Domestic work involves a wide range of activities including sweeping, dusting, cooking, caregiving, child care and other extra work which does not always translate into extra pay. Most urban homes employ part-time domestic workers who bear the cost of travelling from their homes to place of work on a daily basis. Their children are out of school due to Covid-19 restrictions, and most of them do not have the means to buy smart digital devices for online classes. At best, the family shares one phone.Employers tend to prefer part-time workers because they are easier to both hire and fire, and their terms of employment entail no benefits such as paid leave, medical expenses or lodging. With the advent of the virus, they were and still are viewed by employers as carriers of the virus, leading to substantial loss of employment for part-timers.The sad part is that even for those still able to get work, many employers, themselves facing the economic pressure owing to illness or lack of employment, are offering lower wages, with the domestic worker unable to negotiate better terms for fear of losing out altogether. The sanitisation processes and testing demanded by many employers as a condition for work have meant additional expenses for domestic workers.The government undoubtedly has its hands full tackling the vicious second wave of the virus. But it cannot leave domestic workers, mostly women, to fend for themselves. Faced with a loss of income, they are more vulnerable to domestic violence and, in extreme cases, trafficking.The government must set in motion steps to fast-track registration of domestic workers across the country so that it can keep track of them as they move to different geographies. A provision of free rations for at least six months should be put in place for part-time domestic workers in urban areas who may not have the option of going back to their homes.Full and part-time domestic workers have been instrumental in improving economic productivity, especially of other women, as their inputs have freed employers to go out to work. It would be short-sighted to overlook their needs at a time when women’s participation in the workforce is declining. They are a vital cog in economic recovery and as citizens, are entitled to relief from the State immediately.lalita.panicker@hindustantimes.comThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/address-the-needs-of-domestic-workers-101621085046886.html
