17-05-2021||News||With pandemic and polls, Sonia Gandhi may remain Congress president till 2022||At a meeting on May 10, the Congress Working Committee (CWC) “temporarily” deferred the long overdue organisational elections. But the health emergency-related exigencies that necessitated the delay aren’t going to go way anytime soon. The circumstances make Sonia Gandhi’s continuation as the party’s interim president inevitable through this year, perhaps until polls happen to five state assemblies in the first quarter of 2022.Barring Uttar Pradesh, the Congress could be in the reckoning for power in the remaining election-bound states: Punjab, Uttarakhand, Goa and Manipur. After the February-March round, elections are scheduled to the Himachal Pradesh and Gujarat legislatures in October and December next year.“Even if we want to hasten party elections, how do we do it?” wondered a senior Congress leader who was part of the ginger group of 23, which wrote to Gandhi in August 2020, advocating an organisational revamp to face up to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)’s political challenge. He said the virus on the rampage has changed the ground situation as people were dying for want of essential medical services. The battle against the pandemic, in his view, was as much a battle of perception the party should seek to win by speaking for the people and standing by them.Also Read | Despite second wave, Bhagwat’s comments indicate Sangh-BJP ties on trackHow much the Congress can do by way of providing relief to the diseased and their loved ones, especially in the states it governs, remains in the realm of uncertainty, with the chaos on the ground being the same everywhere.Organisational mechanics In terms of organisational mechanics, however, Gandhi has done well by reaching out to Ghulam Nabi Azad, former Union health minister and a prominent G-23 face, to give him charge of the Congress’s Covid-19 task force. Besides senior leaders, the panel includes BV Srinivas, the youth Congress president who has earned encomiums for his Good Samaritan acts with a team of committed workers.There certainly is some freshness in the teams Gandhi has constituted for pandemic related work and to study the party’s disappointing show in the assembly elections. Another member of the pro-change group, Manish Tewari, has a seat on the panel led by former Maharashtra chief minister Ashok Chavan to evaluate the causes of the Congress’s defeat in the polls, especially in Kerala, Assam, Puducherry and West Bengal.The co-option of Anand Sharma, also a signatory to the letter written to Gandhi, is evident as much in the statement he recently issued on the Israel-Palestine conflict as chairperson of the All India Congress Committee’s foreign affairs department.These short-term initiatives do not take away from the fact that the party needs a full-time, hands-on president who’s accessible and willing to carry colleagues along across age groups. Several party persons informally shared ideas that they thought could be implemented in the immediate, middle and long time-frames to place the party back on the rails.Preparing for polls For starters, many felt the Chavan panel’s report on poll debacles should be discussed threadbare in the CWC and shared perhaps in full or in a redacted form at various tiers of the party organisation.“The leadership should build upon the report and turn it into a sort of blue book to be followed during election time,” remarked a CWC member who declined to be quoted. He said an honest narrative of “how the party managed to lose could be the best lesson on how to win”. It’ll be a creative short-term move to promote accountability with transparency.Thr Chavan panel is working overtime — virtually — to wrap up its task in about six weeks. Its findings should be factored in for preparing the party in states due for polls next year, proffered an AICC secretary with a state portfolio. The corrective steps, he said, should be taken right away, be it undertaking organisational changes, deciding the party’s CM face or sewing up alliances.For instance, former chief minister Harish Rawat is the Congress’s most prominent face in Uttarakhand but is currently the AICC in-charge of another poll bound state of Punjab. Likewise, the Congress has to look for a formidable successor to the 87-year-old Virbhadra Singh in Himachal.Requiring an immediate resolution in Punjab is the growing friction between Capt Amarinder Singh and Navjot Sidhu. The latter has taken to the social media to voice the resentment shared by other party legislators over the CM allowing the bureaucracy a disproportionate control of the state administration.“These issues need to be immediately addressed,” said a state unit head of the Congress. He felt the party often paid the price for prevaricating on key changes in the lead-up to elections when the best approach is to name the leader and leave it to him to sort out local angularities against his elevation in consultation with the AICC general secretary concerned. For such decisions to be fruitful they’ve to be taken much in advance and not when the elections are a whisker away.Also Read | The inside story of why the BJP lost Bengal“The template can work if power is genuinely devolved by the high command and exercised fairly at the state level,” noted a party veteran, calling it a “gingerly first step” towards nurturing leadership in provinces without which the party cannot be federally structured. “The central leadership has to be a planet with satellites.”Alliance-building The planet-satellite imagery is a long-haul process requiring, in the middle term, a neatly held organisational overhaul reflective of the party rank and file’s support and sentiments. Once in place, the architecture will be best suited for myriad objectives, notably the alliances the Congress needs at the state level.Here one’s reminded of Sharad Pawar’s formula that did not reach fruition in the run-up to the 2019 polls. The Nationalist Congress Party patron had then said that the Congress should extend and take primacy in seat sharing through an objective assessment of its strength in comparison with regional stakeholders. Illustration: it can be the senior partner in Rajasthan or Gujarat, not in Bihar or Uttar Pradesh.Be that as it may, an alliance making team comprising the party’s provincial and central leaders should be constituted in the not too distant future for the impending assembly polls. The same body can liaison with other parties to nationally carry forward the task closer to the 2024 Lok Sabha polls. If it works, the arrangement might well throw up a core group of policy makers the party has lacked since the demise of the Ahmed Patel-Motilal Vora duo and the marginalisation of Janardhan Dwivedi.To make the experiment work, Gandhi or whoever takes over as the Congress president after her, will at once have to be a disrupter and a consensus builder. For her part, the interim chief is more of a consensus person — a trait currently needed to assuage ruffled sentiments but not quite effective when hard decisions must to be taken.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/in-the-congress-the-pandemic-polls-and-the-election-of-the-next-president-101621252450552.html
17-05-2021||Noida||Drive-through vaccination begins in Noida||NOIDA: The Gautam Budh Nagar administration on Monday started two drive-through vaccination centres in the district -- one at DLF Mall of India in Noida’s Sector 18 and another at Greater Noida Sports Complex. More than 170 people were administered Covid-19 vaccine at the two sites on the first day of the drive that was conducted from 9am to 5pm, officials said.According to the officials, at these centres, people aged 45 years and above can get their vaccination done while sitting in their cars. However, prior registration on the Cowin portal is required, they said. “The beneficiaries have to wait for 30 minutes in their cars after vaccination. The health staff engaged in vaccination will monitor them for 30 minutes after jab and then let them go,” said Narendra Bhooshan, chief executive officer of Greater Noida authority, who is also the nodal officer for Covid-19 management for GB Nagar. The camps were organised a day after instructions came from UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath who had visited the Noida on Sunday. At the Greater Noida stadium, a total of 83 people got vaccinated on Monday, the officials said, adding that the camp will continue in coming days.“People should bring their mobile phones used for registration and also an identity card for completing the vaccination process. They can approach the medical staff if they face any issue after getting jabs,” said Bhooshan, who also conducted an inspection of the Greater Noida camp.GB Nagar district magistrate Suhas LY launched the drive-through vaccination camp at DLF Mall of India at 9am. At this centre, 93 people got vaccinated, said the officials.“People can comfortably sit in their cars and get vaccination done under supervision of medical staff. People can book their slot on Cowin app and reach these camps,” said Suhas.The administration is providing Covishield jabs at these two drive-through centres, the officials said.Beneficiaries have welcomed the ‘drive-through’ initiative. “It’s a great initiative as I did not have to wait much longer. Moreover, it is saving us from the crowd at a hospital. It was a hassle-free experience overall,” said a beneficiary at the Greater Noida camp, requesting anonymity.Park+, a smart parking solutions firm, helped the administration organise the camp at DLF Mall of India. “With this drive-through initiative, we hope to expedite the vaccination process across the country. The malls and parking lots for the drive-through vaccination are our existing partners. We are honoured that they are cooperating with us on such a short notice to help the state government. We are planning a seamless vaccination drive for Noida,” said Amit Lakhotia, founder of Park+.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/drivethrough-vaccination-begins-in-noida-101621275610742.html
17-05-2021||Noida||Transgenders in GB Nagar demand separate vaccination camp||Noida: Members of the transgender community in Gautam Budh Nagar have asked for a separate Covid-19 vaccination camp for them, saying they have been left out of the process. District administration officials said that they have plans to hold a vaccination camp for the transgenders.Urooz Rizvi, a transgender who is a social activist, said that she has written to the district administration asking for a separate vaccination camp for the community. “Most of the transgenders are not educated enough to understand the importance of vaccination. I have urged the administration to hold a vaccination drive for the transgender community in GB Nagar,” said the Sector 74 resident who is recovering from Covid-19. Rizvi also runs a restaurant in Sector 119. Activists said that most of the transgenders are unaware of the registration process on Cowin portal to get vaccinated. Kaushal, a transgender, said that she has no clue about it. “Our community is usually cut off from the society. Others in my colony who work as domestic helps have been able to get registered and their employers are helping them get vaccinated. However, I have no clue about this,” said Kaushal, a resident of Chhalera village in Sector 44.Basera Samajik Sansthan, an NGO that works with over 2,000 transgenders in GB Nagar, is getting them vaccinated since the vaccination for the 18-44 age group opened up.“Most of the transgenders have fallen prey to the rumour that vaccination may harm the body. We have been sensitising them and encouraging them to get vaccinated against Covid-19,” said Ram Kali, a transgender who works at the NGO.The NGO has so far got 20 transgenders vaccinated at the Sector 30 district hospital. “In the last two weeks, we could only get 20 people vaccinated. We urge the district administration to hold a vaccination camp for transgenders so that they are not left out of the process,” added Ram Kali.When asked, GB Nagar district magistrate Suhas LY said that the administration is planning to hold a vaccination camp for transgenders soon. “We do not want any section of the society to be left out from vaccination against Covid-19. We will plan a vaccination camp for transgenders soon,” he said.As per the 2011 census, Uttar Pradesh has 137,465 transgenders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/transgenders-in-gb-nagar-demand-separate-vaccination-camp-101621275611316.html
17-05-2021||Noida||People in 45+ category find it difficult to get second dose of Covaxin in GB Nagar||Noida: Residents of Gautam Budh Nagar who are due for their second shot of Covaxin say they are finding it difficult to get the jab. The gap between two doses of Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin coronavirus vaccine is a minimum of 28 days. Those in the 45+ category who got their first dose in April, are now looking to get the second dose.Vaccinations for this category were opened on April 1As per the Cowin portal, two government healthcare centres and one private hospital are administering Covaxin for the 45+ category in the district. However, beyond May 18, the slots at these centres show no availability.“I was administered the first dose of Covaxin at a private hospital in Sector 63 on April 13. However, when I was due for the second dose, I found that the hospital did not have it. I searched on the CoWin portal but all slots are booked or show ‘not available’. Many of my neighbours are also facing the same problem and people are running from hospital to hospital for a second dose of Covaxin but are unable to find it,” said Anusuya Singh, 50, a resident of Sector 61, Noida.When asked, the district’ Covid-19 nodal officer, Narendra Bhooshan, said, “Due to a change in government directives, private hospitals now have to procure vaccines on their own. If people are finding trouble in getting the second dose, I will study this issue and ensure that it gets resolved soon”.Earlier this month, an Uttar Pradesh government order directed that those people, whose second coronavirus disease vaccine dose is due, need not book a slot again and can simply walk-in at healthcare centres where they got the jab earlier, for their subsequent one.“For those who got their first dose at a private hospital and are not able to get the subsequent one at the same hospital, can walk in to any government centre that is providing the vaccine for it,” added Bhooshan.Sector 30 resident Diwakar Mahajan (55) said that a private hospital in Sector 29, where he got the first dose of Covaxin, has put up a notice asking people to go to the government centre where it is available.“The notice said that the second dose of Covaxin will be given at the Urban Primary Health Centre (UPHC) Raipur in Sector 127 on Saturday. However, by the time I reached there, the doses were over and I was asked to come again later,” said Mahajan.As per the district immunisation officer Dr Neeraj Tyagi, only two healthcare centres in the district—UPHC Surajpur, Greater Noida and UPHC Raipur, Sec 126 are administering Covaxin doses for the 45+ category.“Each of the centres has a capacity of 200 vaccines per day with a 30:70 ratio for the first dose and the second dose for walk-ins, respectively,” said Dr Tyagi. However, he did not divulge how many Covaxin doses are left in the slot as the CoWin portal on Monday evening showed vaccines are ‘not available’ at the two centres from Tuesday.Rohit Verma, a resident of Sector 137, said he got the second dose of Covaxin via the walk-in mode at UPHC Raipur on Saturday.“Though the centre was booked on CoWin, I walked-in and got my mother (73) vaccinated for her second dose of Covaxin without any waiting time or hassle,” he said.For the 18-44 category, Covaxin is being administered at Father Agnel School in Sector 62 and at Harola UPHC. According to the district’s chief medical officer, Dr Deepak Ohri, the total vaccine stock available in the district, including Covishield, is 20,000 as of Monday evening.Meanwhile, an official from Fortis Hospital Noida, which is also administering Covaxin, said that while they are allowing walk-ins for the second dose of Covaxin, there is only a limited stock left.As per official data, 7,901 people got vaccinated in the district on Monday, of which 5,238 from the 18-44 category got the first dose. In 60+ category, 612 got the first dose and 75 got the second dose. In the 45-59 category, 1,657 got the first dose and 228 people got the second dose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/people-in-45-category-find-it-difficult-to-get-second-dose-of-covaxin-in-gb-nagar-101621275551411.html
17-05-2021||Noida||Covid-19 vaccination: Senior citizens turned away from Sanjay Nagar hospital in Ghaziabad||Ghaziabad: The Sanjay Nagar Combined District Hospital on Monday witnessed a chaotic scene after most of the senior citizens who arrived to get their second dose of Covid-19 vaccine were turned away from the city’s prominent vaccination centre. The senior citizens, who waited in long queues at the Sanjay Nagar hospital for their second dose, said that the hospital staff had earlier asked them to come on Monday. “But even on Monday, they did not entertain us and asked us to return. I took my first dose on April 7. I came to the centre with my wife after spending ₹200 on auto fare. We waited in a queue since morning, but there was no announcement, or any notice put up. The hospital staff turned us away without vaccination and asked us to come three months after the first dose,” said 67-year-old Shivraj Singh, a resident of Kalka Garhi. Praveen Jain, another 67-year-old who arrived at the centre, said that on the vaccination card, the hospital had given May 10 as the date for second dose. “On May 10, they said that vaccine was out of stock. I, along with my wife, came on Saturday, and they asked us to come on Monday. Today we stood in a queue since 8.30am and a guard told us that vaccine will be given. At 10am, the hospital staff put up a notice that vaccine will be given only to beneficiaries who have registered for their first dose,” said Jain, a resident of Raj Nagar Extension. Notably, the Sanjay Nagar hospital predominantly offers Covishield vaccine to beneficiaries. On May 13, the Centre extended the gap between two doses of the Covishield vaccine from six-eight weeks to 12-16 weeks. The Centre approved a new set of recommendations from a technical expert group that will help give the first dose to more people and is consistent with studies that suggest a longer interval may offer better efficacy.  Sixty-four-year-old Sunita Gupta, a resident of Sanjay Nagar, was also furious at the scenario which prevailed on Monday. “On May 15 (the date of her second dose), they said that vaccine was out of stock. They called us on May 17. After waiting for three hours in a queue, they asked me to come three months from the first dose,” she added. Dr Sanjay Teotia, chief medical superintendent of the hospital, said that there was a huge rush for vaccination on Monday.“Earlier, the gap between two doses was four weeks, and now it has been extended to about three months. Also, we received another brand of vaccine stock on Saturday, and it could not be administered to beneficiaries who were given Covishield as first dose. So, they were asked to come after a gap of three months from their first dose,” Teotia said.Despite repeated attempts, Ghaziabad chief medical officer Dr NK Gupta could not be reached for a comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/covid19-vaccination-senior-citizens-turned-away-from-sanjay-nagar-hospital-in-ghaziabad-101621275550797.html
17-05-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad admin offers support to poor Covid-19 patients||Ghaziabad: As patients continue to battle Covid-19 in healthcare facilities, the Ghaziabad district administration said it has decided to help patients from impoverished backgrounds who are unable to afford hospital bills.The administration has also asked private hospitals to install CCTVs in Covid wards which will be linked and monitored by the Integrated Covid Command and Control Centre (ICCC) at the district headquarters.According to records of the health department, the Ghaziabad district has 3,111 Covid beds, which include 2820 oxygen beds. Of these, the daily average occupancy in the past one week (May 9 to 15) has been 2,717. Out of the 815 ICU beds, 782 were occupied in the past one week on an average, while 185 out of 201 ventilator beds were occupied. “It has been seen during the second Covid wave that patients are taking longer to recover and this has put a huge financial burden on their families. We have directed that hospitals should continue treating patients without any compromise on quality and such bills should be forwarded to the district administration. We have a responsibility towards these patients, and we will get such bills settled through means such as corporate social responsibility funds, among others,” said Ghaziabad district magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey. According to the state control room figures of May 17, the total Covid case tally in Ghaziabad stood at 51,759 so far, with 47,757 discharges, 386 deaths and 3,616 active cases.“The ICCC will take daily information of vacant beds, availability of medicines and availability of ICU beds. Status of patients will be noted through CCTVs. It has also seen that patients’ kin have to run around town looking to fill prescriptions issued by hospitals, and end up falling into the trap of black-marketers and face problems. We have clearly directed hospitals that they are to make all arrangements themselves, as part of treatment. In case the hospitals face issues or are short of supply, they should immediately refer it to the district administration,” Pandey added.Meanwhile, a team of officers has started on a “bill audit” of as many as five hospitals upon complaints of alleged over-charging received by families of patients. “We have started the process and some of the bills have been settled. In cases of over-charging, the hospitals will be asked to refund, else their registrations may be cancelled. We have also directed for audit of the entire supply chain, from the manufacture to the retailer level, for life-saving medicines related to black fungus. This is a new emergence with some Covid patients, and we need to curb black-marketing of such drugs,” the DM said.Private hospitals who attended a meeting in this regard on Monday said they are following the directions of the district administration as well as the state government.“Some directions were issued last year and this year too. All directions are being followed and complied with. We are providing the best available treatment to our patients and are also following guidelines,” said a spokesperson from Yashoda Hospital at Kaushambi.Officials of the Indian Medical Association (Ghaziabad) said they have no issues with the directions of the district administration, provided that there is better coordination about the directions.“Regarding installation of CCTVs, we are of the opinion that doctors need freedom when it comes to treatment, and they should be allowed to do it. In case the admin wishes to monitor, they can, but it should not be an obstruction. Further, if the admin ensures that supply of medicines is regular, the hospitals will not feel the need to issue a prescription for medicines to be obtained outside. This is only if there is a short supply of the same,” said Dr Ashish Agarwal, president of the association’s Ghaziabad chapter. “We also feel that a lot of families are facing financial burden due to prolonged treatment during the current wave. This is due to the severity of the infection. If the admin has stepped in to help such families, we would also appreciate it,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-admin-offers-support-to-poor-covid-19-patients-101621274710749.html
17-05-2021||Chandigarh||Covid cases witness a dip in Haryana||Haryana saw a dip in coronavirus cases last week (May 10-16) registering about 22,400 lesser cases than the week before.As per the health department data, the state recorded 78,530 cases last week as compared to the 1,01,009 cases the week before (May 3-9), thus raising hopes of virus curve starting to bend.Additional chief secretary (ACS), health, Rajeev Arora said though fresh cases and active cases have started decreasing, they would still like to wait for another week to conclude that the state is finally over the peak.“Gurugram and Faridabad that once contributed 40-50% cases at one point of time have seen a drastic reduction in cases,” the ACS said. The number of active cases which crossed one-lakh mark two weeks back has come down to about 83,000, Arora added.16 DISTRICTS HAVE CRITICAL POSITIVITY RATEWith Bhiwani entering the critical category with a sample positivity rate of 6.73%, the number of districts with critical positivity rate is now 16. Charkhi Dadri which had a desirable positivity rate of less than 2% for the past many months has also exited the desirable category, now having a sample positivity rate of 2.36%.Among the critically positive districts, Faridabad has the highest positivity rate of 12.65%, closely followed by Gurugram (12.18%), Panipat (10.43%), Hisar (9.53%), Sonepat (9.21%), Panchkula (8.85%), Karnal (8.55%), Mahendergarh (8.35%), Fatehabad (8.26%), Jind (7.85%), Ambala (7.68%), Rewari (7.22%), Sirsa (7.21%), Yamunanagar (6.88%) and Kurukshetra (6.26%).Only Nuh district with a sample positivity rate of 1.74% has a desirable positivity rate of less than 2%.The overall positivity rate of the state increased to 8.41% last week even as the daily positivity rate was coming down.The state also registered 1,080 Covid-related deaths last week, for the second time in last two weeks that more than 1,000 fatalities took place in a week. The case fatality rate, however, was 0.96%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-cases-witness-a-dip-in-haryana-101621272493327.html
17-05-2021||Chandigarh||Covid fatality rate rises to 0.97% in Haryana||Every district in Haryana recorded fatalities and 144 people succumbed to Covid-19 on Monday. The fatality rate rose to 0.97% from 0.87% on May 1.In May, 2,583 people have died of the virus in state. The cumulative death toll rose to 6,799 on Monday from 4,341 on May 1.According to the health bulletin, 7,488 fresh cases were detected in state in the last 24 hours, when 49,934 samples were collected. The number of samples collected on Monday is low in comparison to last week when on an average, Haryana was taking over 60,000 samples.As many as 14,279 people recovered from the virus on Monday increasing the tally to 6,11,955 and pushing the recovery rate to 87.18%.The positivity rate of the state was 14.94% on Monday, while the cumulative positivity rate was 8.45%.Of the 144 fatalities on Monday, Gurugram recorded 13 deaths, Ambala 10, Panchkula nine, Panipat eight, seven each in Faridabad, Hisar and Karnal, six each in Rewari, Bhiwani and Jind, five in Rohtak and Jhajjar, four each in Sonepat and Sirsa, three each in Fatehabad and Kaithal, two each in Kurukshetra, Yamunanagar, Mahendergarh, Nuh and Charkhi Dadri, and one in Palwal.Among the district with heavy fresh cases were Gurugram 1,176, Hisar 830, Faridabad 506, Sonepat 430, Mahendergarh 469 and Bhiwani 446.While the active cases in state came down to 83,161 on Monday, 57,284 people were among the total 49.53 lakh people vaccinated in state so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-fatality-rate-rises-to-0-97-in-haryana-101621272371244.html
17-05-2021||Chandigarh||Khattar meets Amit Shah to update him on Hisar clash||Less than a day after the agitating farmers clashed with police in Hisar, Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Monday met Union home minister Amit Shah in Delhi and apprised him about the latest updates of the ongoing farmers’ agitation against Centre’s three farm laws.Khattar’s meeting with Shah assumes significance as it took place in the shadow of blame game between the ruling BJP-JJP coalition government and the Opposition over police action against farmers. Police used force to stop farmers from marching towards and disrupting the inauguration of Covid hospital in Hisar by CM Khattar.In the lathi-charge, farmers received injuries and as per police, at least 20 police personnel were injured when farmers pelted stones.On Sunday, referring to the protesting farmers as “miscreants”, police had said that their intention was to “commit violence on a large scale”, a charge farmers have denied.After emerging from the meeting that took place at the residence of Shah, Khattar said that he briefed Shah about the Hisar incident and steps taken by the Haryana government to deal with the second wave of Covid-19 spreading in rural areas.He discussed with Shah the present Covid situation in Haryana and the arrangements being made to combat the virus spread. Khattar said he apprised Shah about the ongoing farmers’ agitation.Khattar said the state government will act with the agitating farmers as per directions given by the Centre.Responding to a query regarding the Hisar incident, the CM said the incident was discussed in detail with Shah, who agreed that it was inappropriate to oppose the hospital inauguration.“The central leadership was apprised of the talks held between both parties and police on Sunday. The protesters have assured that they will not hold such kind of protests in future,” Khattar said.Regarding black fungus cases, he said the state government is importing the required medicine to treat the disease and after this, distribution of the medicine will be planned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/khattar-meets-amit-shah-to-update-him-on-hisar-clash-101621272312394.html
17-05-2021||Other||Amid lockdown, labour shortage worries Yamunanagar industrialists||As the state enters the third week of lockdown due to surge in Covid-19 cases, the shortage of labour in the plywood and metal industries of Yamunanagar is affecting business.As per rough estimates, there are nearly a thousand units, including plyboard and peeling factories and over 1,500 metal units dealing in the manufacturing of brass, steel and aluminium products that are operational across district.Both the industries are highly labour-intensive with over one lakh people are directly or indirectly linked to these industries. Most industries export their products to other states or countries.Plywood industrialists highlighted the labour problem as most of their skilled manpower belongs to UP, Bihar, Odisha, West Bengal or Jharkhand and have returned to their native place.Jugal Kishor, president of the state plywood industries association, said that just 15% of such industries are operating as per government guidelines.“But where will we sell our products?” he wondered, adding, “Because of lockdown in most states, there is no demand. So, we are just adding to our existing stock.”Bharat Garg, of a utensil-makers’ body, said that their labour has shifted to industries in the rural belts and might not return even if the lockdown ends.“Existential crisis for the units under municipal limits is looming large. Most labour has migrated back home or started working in units outside the MC limits,” Garg, owner of JK Metal Industries, said.Meanwhile, as per the Master Plan 2041 approved last week, the industrial zone in district will increase from the existing 16% to 28% by 2041.Ram Niwas Garg, chairman of Haryana Vyapari Kalyan Board, said, “The increase in industrial zone will open doors for more start-ups by local youth and overall development of the region.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/amid-lockdown-labour-shortage-worries-yamunanagar-industrialists-101621272251380.html
17-05-2021||Other||Khattar should resign immediately: Abhay||Indian National Lok Dal general secretary Abhay Singh Chautala on Monday said, “Manohar Lal Khattar has no right to continue in the constitutional post like chief minister of the state.”Addressing a press conference in Hisar, Abhay said, “Whenever the history of Haryana will be written, Khattar’s name will be written in black letters.”“No CM has done so much damage to Haryana as Khattar has done till date. If Haryana is to be saved, Khattar should resign immediately,” he said.“JJP and BJP have formed a gang together who are robbing the state. They have looted thousands of crores under the guise of Covid,” he added.Hitting out at Khattar, Abhay said the Covid hospital in Hisar was built by Congress’ Jindal family but Khattar inaugurated it to take credit.“The Jindal family built the hospital and instead of naming it after OP Jindal, the government named it after Chaudhary Devi Lal. No temporary thing can be made on the name of Chaudhary Devi Lal in Haryana,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/khattar-should-resign-immediately-abhay-101621272191178.html
17-05-2021||Mumbai||After 3-day gap, BMC to resume Covid-19 vaccination from Tuesday||The Covid-19 vaccination drive in Mumbai, that was suspended for three days due to the extremely severe cyclonic storm Tauktae, will resume from Tuesday at select centres, the city civic body said on Monday.The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), in a release, said that walk-in vaccination will be carried out at select inoculation centres on May 18 and 19.As a precaution after the Tauktae alert, the civic body of Mumbai had suspended the inoculation drive for three days - Saturday, Sunday and Monday.Under the influence of the extremely severe cyclonic storm, Mumbai and its adjoining districts were lashed by heavy rains and high-speed winds overnight and on Monday.The weather system has now moved to the coast of neighbouring Gujarat.The civic body said the vaccination won't take place at centres affected by the cyclone which damaged structures.The list of the centres, where vaccine doses will be administered over the next two days, will be updated, the BMC said.It said citizens above 60 years of age will be given the first dose of Covishield vaccine, whose dosage gap has been increased to 12 to 16 weeks from the earlier 6 to 8 weeks, on May 18 and 19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/after-3-day-gap-bmc-to-resume-covid-19-vaccination-from-tuesday-101621270086984.html
17-05-2021||Pune||Pune reports 2,996 new Covid cases, 14 deaths||Pune: As per the state health department, Pune district reported 2,996 new Covid-19 cases in just 24 hours on Monday. The district also reported 14 more deaths due to the infection. This took the total count in the district to 0.976 million of which 0.890 million have recovered, 10,489 deaths were declared and 76,160 are active cases undergoing treatment in hospitals or are in home isolation. Pune rural reported 1,522 new Covid cases which took the progressive count to 266,506 and with four more deaths the toll in the rural areas went up to 2,803. Pune city reported 740 new Covid cases which took the progressive count to 473,816 and with seven more deaths the toll went up to 6,083 while PCMC reported 734 new cases, the progressive count went up to 236,359 and with three more deaths the toll went up to 1,545.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-reports-2-996-new-covid-cases-14-deaths-101621268770523.html
17-05-2021||Other||Man arrested for ‘forcing’ conversion, probe on||The Jharkhand police have booked and arrested a trader from Bhagalpur district in Bihar for allegedly forcing his employee, hailing from a village in Godda district, to convert to Islam. Lalit Kumar Pandey, officer in-charge of Lalmatiya police station in Godda district, said both accused and the alleged victim, who was held captive, had been brought to Godda.Godda’s superintendent of police YS Rames told media persons that Mahagama subdivisional police officer (SDPO) Shiv Shankar Tiwary had been sent Lalmatiya to conduct the probe.As per a written complaint by Rupali Devi, a resident of Dacoita village under Lalamatiya police station, her husband Shankar Pandit’s (45) was forced to convert and offer prayers in a mosque on the day of Eid by his employer Md Khurishid Mansuri (35), a resident of Jalaha village under Sanokhar police station in the neighbouring Bhagalpur district, which falls in Bihar.Khurshid also changed Shankar Pandit’s name to Salim Mansuri and confined him in his house, the woman has alleged in her complaint.On Sunday, Shankar Pandit called up his wife and son Jitu Pandit and sought help, after which they informed village head Nimani Murmu. The three then lodged a complaint at the Lalmatiya police station.“Accused is in our custody. Any further action would be taken only after a probe by senior officials,” said the officer in-charge.Family members said Shankar Pandit had been working at Mansuri’s shop for last 1.5 years for a daily wage of ₹150.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/man-arrested-for-forcing-conversion-probe-on-101621268290485.html
17-05-2021||Ranchi||Only J’khand residents to get jab under 18-44 group||Amid prevalent uncertainty over availability of enough doses of Covid-19 vaccine to be administered to people under the 18-44 category, officials concerned have directed to ensure that only permanent residents under this category get the jab in the state. State nodal officer (vaccination), Ajit Prasad, has written to civil surgeons of all districts to this effect. “...Vaccination for 18-44 age group was started on May 14. Slots are being booked through the CoWin portal even by those who are neither residents of the state nor do they work here. Henceforth, vaccine will not be administered to anyone who is not a resident of the state nor to those who are not working here,” the order reads. While the Centre provided vaccine doses to all states for inoculation of health workers, frontline workers and those above the age of 45, it asked the respective state governments to bear the cost of vaccinating those under the 18-44 category.Against its purchase orders, Jharkhand has so far received 2.34 lakh doses of Covishield and Covaxin from the two approved manufacturers--Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech, respectively.According to sources, the state received 134,400 doses of Covaxin and 100,000 doses of Covishield. It was likely to get another consignment of 287,000 doses of Covishield by end of the current week.However, the number of doses received by the state so far was quite less, and if supply chain was not maintained, the inoculation drive was likely come to a halt, experts have opined.According to an estimate by the state health department, the state has nearly 16 million people aged between 18-44 years, for which it requires 32 million doses.Meanwhile, the state government’s recent move triggered political reactions. Former minister and BJP legislator CP Singh said the state government should not discriminate on the basis of residential address in times of a crisis such as this. “This issue is not related to giving jobs. This is a public health crisis and the government should not discriminate on this basis,” he said.On the other hand, JMM legislator Sudivya Kumar defended the move, asking why will the Jharkhand government provide vaccine to people from other states at its cost.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/only-j-khand-residents-to-get-jab-under-18-44-group-101621268291092.html
17-05-2021||Other||Karnataka govt forms task force on black fungus, identifies 97 cases||At least 97 people in Karnataka have been identified to have contracted black fungus (mucormycosis), K Sudhakar, state minister for health, family welfare and medical education said on Monday.“Compared to normal years, this (black fungus) has been seen in quite a few people,” Sudhakar said on Monday. He added that the disease should not be compared to Covid-19 or believed to transmit in the same fashion as Covid-19.The Karnataka government has formed a specialised task force on black fungus to contain the growing number of cases reported from across the state. The new infection comes amid a raging Covid-19 pandemic that has thrown life out gear for the state and country for over a year now.The disease is said to appear in those who have immunocompromised conditions like cancer, HIV and others, the minister said. Sudhakar said that even Covid-19 infected patients with uncontrolled diabetes and those who are fed a high dose of steroids can get the disease.Black fungus enters the nose first, then the eyes and finally travels to the brain when it becomes more deadly and potentially life threatening.“This is a notified disease and all private hospitals, ENT specialists should inform the government if such cases are discovered. This information cannot be kept private and must be informed to the government. Keeping it from the government is against the law,” Sudhakar said.Drugs like Amphotericin B are used to treat the disease. The supply of the drug, however, is controlled by the Centre which has so far allocated 1,050 vials to Karnataka, the minister said, of which the state had received 450 so far.Several states in India have reported a high number of black fungus cases that has added to panic amid the Covid-19 pandemic of the spread of another potentially deadly disease.Sudhakar said that the government has placed orders for around 20,000 vials of the medicine along with two other drugs, which are also effective against black fungus.The minister said that at least five centres across Karnataka - Bengaluru, Mysuru, Hubbali, Kalaburagi and Shivamogga - will start operating by Thursday to treat people with this condition.Sudhakar said that the new task force will also try to determine the source of the infection. He said that private hospitals must use only sterilized water for their dehumidifiers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/karnataka-govt-forms-task-force-on-black-fungus-identifies-97-cases-101621267872748.html
17-05-2021||Ranchi||Govt to bear cost of cremation of Covid victims: CM||Chief minister Hemant Soren on Monday announced that the state government will bear the cost of cremation of Covid-19 victims in the state. Addressing a virtual meeting after inaugurating an 80-bed Covid-19 facility in Ramgarh district, the chief minister also underlined that the state government was preparing extensively to identify positive cases in rural areas and provide adequate treatment. “Cremation of Covid-19 victims will be done free of cost. Required firewood will be provided for free at crematoriums. At graveyards, no charges will be incurred for digging graves,” Sore said, while elaborating on financial help being provided to Covid-19 affected people in the state. Over 3,000 people have succumbed to the virus in the state since the second wave of the pandemic hit in first week of May. Rapid test in rural areasElaborating on the state government’s plans in dealing with the rampaging virus in rural areas, that were more vulnerable due to inadequate health care facilities, the chief minister said, “Testing centres in rural areas are being set up where health workers will conduct rapid antigen test (RAT). Infected people will be sent to isolation centres if required. In case of home isolation, they will be provided medical kits. We have distributed 22 lakh test kits and have further demanded 45 lakh kits from the Centre.” Highlighting the importance of vaccination in batting the health crisis, Soren said turn out of people under 18-44 category was encouraging. “But, there is visible reluctance in rural areas about vaccination due to certain cultural practices related to health care as well as rumour mongering. We need to vaccinate the local body representatives in order to build confidence among people,” said Soren.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/govt-to-bear-cost-of-cremation-of-covid-victims-cm-101621266610444.html
17-05-2021||Patna||CM launches app for tracking patients under home isolation||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar launched Covid-19 home insolation tracking (HIT) mobile application through video conference on Monday for online monitoring of infected patients under home isolation in the state.In the pilot project, the online monitoring system has been made functional in Supaul, Gopalganj, Aurangabad, Nalanda and Bhagalpur.Speaking over the occasion, Kumar said, “A large number of Covid-19 patients are under home isolation. As cases of a dip in oxygen level of Covid-19 patients have increased, it is important to keep a tab on the oxygen level of these patients. Health department workers will visit the home of Covid-19 patients to measure their body temperature and oxygen level on daily basis. They will also enter daily report through the app.” “If required, those patients with an oxygen level below 94 will be shifted to a dedicated health centre for timely medical treatment. Health workers of rural areas have also been trained to use the application”, he added.Information and Technology secretary Santosh Kumar Mall said the application has been developed by BELTRON in collaboration with the state health department. Kumar also inspected community kitchens set up in 15 districts through a virtual tour.As per the Patna district administration, more than 1.30 lakh people have been fed till May 16 through 19 community kitchens set up in the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/cm-launches-app-for-tracking-patients-under-home-isolation-101621266370474.html
17-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra logs 26,616 new Covid-19 cases, Mumbai reports steep decline with 1,240 infections||The coronavirus disease (Covid-19) case tally of Maharashtra rose by 26,616 new infections over the past 24 hours, while the death toll increased by 516, according to the state health bulletin. On the contrary, the state registered 34,389 and 974 deaths on Sunday. In the last one day the state saw a huge decline of 7,773 cases and 458 deaths.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19The case tally of the state reached 5,405,068 with reporting of new infections. The death toll currently stands at 82,486. The active cases in the state with the second-highest active caseload in the country stand at 4,45,495, the bulletin showed.The coronavirus positivity rate, which stood at 13 per cent on Sunday, decreased by 1.65 percentage points in the last 24 hours to reach 11.35 per cent.As many as 234,416 samples were tested for the identification of the virus in the population. The testing fell by 30, 171, as 264,587 tests were done for Covid-19 on Sunday. So far, the state has tested 31,338,407 samples for the virus since the beginning of the pandemic.After witnessing an incline on Sunday, Mumbai reported a steep fall in new Covid-19 cases as 1,240 people were found positive in comparison to 1,544 on May 16. The number of daily deaths also fell as 48 people succumbed to the disease in the last 24 hours, according to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) health bulletin. The number of new cases reported in Mumbai is the lowest single-day count since March 9. The cases fell by over 300 from Sunday, according to the data.Also read| CoWIN portal in Hindi, other languages from next week: GovtThe plummet in the new cases and fatalities can be attributed to the fall in the testing rate. Merely 17,640 samples were tested for Covid-19 in the past 24 hours, in contrast to 24,896 tests done on Sunday. The reduction in testing could also be because of the severe cyclonic storm Tauktae that has so far killed six people in Maharashtra's Konkan region, according to a PTI report.2,587 patients recovered from the disease in Mumbai increasing the recovery rate in the state capital by one percentage point to 93 per cent. More than 34,000 cases are currently active in Mumbai, the BMC data showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-logs-26-616-new-covid-19-cases-mumbai-reports-steep-decline-with-1-240-infections-101621258470289.html
17-05-2021||Other||‘I recommend it because...’: Pragya Thakur justifies cow urine comment||BJP Member of Parliament from Bhopal, Pragya Thakur, on Monday stood by her comments asking party workers to drink cow urine as an antidote to Covid 19. She said that she recommends it because it has “scientific backing”. A video capturing her comments has gone viral on social media, even getting the attention of the international press.Addressing party workers in Bhopal on Sunday, Thakur said, “I consumed cow urine daily and it is a kind of acid which purifies my body. It also purifies the lungs and saves me from Covid-19 infection. I don’t take any medicine against corona but I am safe.”Thakur didn’t stop here but also explained how to consume this. Thakur said, “The urine should come from cows of the indigenous breed that are fed only forest grass. It should be filtered with a piece of cotton clothes at least 16 times before consumption.”Speaking to Hindustan Times on Monday, the BJP MP said she has not been infected with Covid-19 but she would add that the role of cow urine against the Covid-19 cannot be downplayed.“Covid is an infection and the cow urine is a proven medicine for infections. I have not been infected till now because I consume cow urine,” Pragya told Hindustan Times.She added that drugs like Remdesivir and others that are being prescribed by the doctors do not have an established scientific backing yet. “They are not proven medications and are still under research... However, I have been taking cow urine and Panchgavya ( a mix of cow urine, dung, milk, ghee and curd) which has protected me till now. I have recommended these because they have scientific backing. Research has already established it,” she told Hindustan Times.Asked about the research which established cow urine’s anti-infectious properties, she said that it was a German finding.On a question, why was she endangering lives when her own government was suggesting against any unprescribed scientific treatment for Covid-19, Thakur denied any such endangerment. She said that despite so much research and trials, no established cure has been found yet.“However, I have been using the cow urine despite suffering from cancer and being on chemo and radiotherapy and all this while I have been fine and free from Covid”.Reacting to a question on the sensitive health parameters of critical Covid-19 patients and cow urine consumption, she said its consumption will not impact their blood toxicity. “No Covid patient’s health will worsen because of drinking cow urine. It has a specific dosage that is to be given to the patient and while I have just named the medicine yet, if someone wants to take it they can come to me and I shall prescribe the required dose of urine that is needed,” she said.Thakur said that she needs to be safe because she is serving the nation and for that purpose, she consumes cow urine. “I wish health to everyone and this is why I recommend it. I want all to be safe like me and I have not prescribed anything unresearched like pig or bull’s urine. The prescription of cow urine is an outcome of hundreds of years of research by Rishis and Munis (saints and seers). It has a legacy behind it in the ancient shastras of Patanjali. Tell me which science in the world can challenge these shastras of Patanjali today,” she said.“I have conducted experiments on myself and have cured myself of cancer because of cow urine. What can be a bigger science than this?” she questioned.Earlier, Thakur, who had gone through bilateral mastectomy, claimed that her breast cancer was cured due to cow urine and other by-products.Meanwhile, Dr Ranjan Sharma, president Indian Medical Association reacted to the development and said that it was very unfortunate when the country was faced with such a catastrophe, many leaders were giving unfounded suggestions and risking more lives.Hinting at the recent unscientific remark, Sharma said that even the RSS has asked people to only adhere to scientific medicines. “At least, now these leaders should stop recommending unscientific treatments,” he said.Malegaon blast co-accused Pragya Thakur was missing from public life for the past four months due to ongoing health issues. Many locals and activists had also run a campaign against her for not extending any help to the people of Bhopal who were facing a shortage of oxygen beds and Remdesivir injections. She has started attending public programmes recently.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/i-recommend-it-because-despite-trolls-pragya-thakur-justifies-cow-urine-comment-101621265831014.html
17-05-2021||Pune||PMC sets up flood control cell to monitor water level in dams||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has decided to set up a 24x7 flood control cell to monitor the Khadakwasla, Mulshi and Katraj lake water levels. On Monday, PMC took the decision to provide adequate manpower to operate the flood control cell 24x7, from June 1 till December 31, 2021. The cell will help alert the respective officers to plan rescue and rehabilitation operations where needed. Against the background of the Ambil odha flood situation in the past, the cell will also monitor the Katraj lakes (upper and lower). When the upper Katraj lake is overflowing, excess water flows into the lower lake located at the Rajiv Gandhi Zoological Park. From there it flows into the Ambil odha (stream), before it meets the Mutha river. Additional municipal commissioner Rubal Agarwal issued the order to set up the cell. Staff will be deputed from different departments, including property tax, health, vehicle, road, construction, water supply, solid waste management, building permission, gardens, and the public relations department. Ganesh Sonune, head of the disaster management cell, said, “After the Ambil odha flood incident, we have decided to include Katraj lakes to monitor water levels and rainfall.” Pune was hit twice by floods in 2019. First, in early August, and then, in September, heavy rain (87.3 mm) caused the Ambil odha and other smaller canals to overflow. At least 17 people were killed. The water flooded residential areas of Katraj-Kondhwa road, Sahakarnagar, Satara road, and Sinhagad road. It caused mass destruction of properties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-sets-up-flood-control-cell-to-monitor-water-level-in-dams-101621265050343.html
17-05-2021||Pune||Rainfall likely to reduce Tuesday onwards: IMD forecast||Pune city which was placed under a yellow alert due to the passing cyclone Tauktae on Monday reported a rainfall of 3 millimetres while Lohegaon reported 0.8 mm of rainfall, however, from May 18th the rainfall is likely to reduce, according to IMD officials. For May 18, the IMD has not issued any warnings for Pune, however, partly cloudy skies with light rains are forecasted for the city. Across Maharashtra, north of Konkan and Goa and some parts of Vidarbha may recieve rainfall on May 18. On Monday, along with Pune, Mahabaleshwar, Nashik, Satara, Mumbai, Aurangabad and Nagpur reported rainfall. As per IMD, due to the ongoing rains, the highest maximum temperature was reported at Jalgaon on Monday at 39.8 degrees Celsius whereas the lowest minimum temperature reported across Maharashtra was at Mahabaleshwar at 17.4 degrees Celsius. Cyclone Tauktae is now the strongest pre-monsoon Arabian Sea cyclone after 2010 and third strongest pre-monsoon Arabian Sea cyclone since 1982 onwards, according to data revealed by India Meteorological Department (IMD). Researchers at the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology (IITM) said that cyclone Tauktae intensified from category 1 to category 4 cyclone in just 24 hrs. The IMD has also termed Tauktae as Extremely Severe Cyclonic Storm (ESCS). Dr Mruntunjay Mohapatra, director-general, IMD said that there is a trend of rapid intensification of cyclones in the Arabian Sea since 1990. “There is a trend of rapid intensification of cyclones in the Arabian Sea. It may not be termed a phenomenon but there is a trend,” said Mohapatra. He further added that in the Bay of Bengal, it is likely that a low-pressure area will form. “However, how severe it will be is unclear as of now. We are monitoring the conditions closely,” said Mohapatra. Vineet Kumar Singh, researcher at IITM noted that this intensification is due to the warmer sea surface and subsurface temperature. “In our research, we have previously observed that warmer sea surface and subsurface have rapid intensification of cyclones. In the case of Tauktae as well, you can see that the cyclone intensified from category 1 to category 4 in just 24 hours,” said Singh. He attributed the warmer temperatures to global warming and climate change. “All across the globe, we can see a trend of warming temperatures. The warmer sea surface and subsurface temperature is seen to provide more energy to the cyclones” said Singh. According to IMD data, this is the first time since 1976 and second time since 1900 that a cyclone in May is going to hit Gujarat coast with wind speed greater than 35 knots. “As an impact of the cyclone Tauktae, Ratnagiri reported 364 millimetre rainfall in just 24 hours,” said Singh. As per recent updates by IMD, ESCS Tauktae is moving at a speed of 15 kilometres per hour as of Monday. It is likely to move north-northwestwards and cross Gujarat coast between Porbandar and Mahuva, east of Diu on late night of Monday. The wind speed forecast by IMD is 155-165 kilometres per hour and gusting to 185 kmph. In the recent years, India has seen super cyclones like Maha, Amphan and Nisarga.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/rainfall-likely-to-reduce-tuesday-onwards-imd-forecast-101621264990426.html
17-05-2021||Pune||Tauktae effect: Interruptions in work from home due to frequent power cuts||Gusty winds coupled with rain as a result of cyclone Tauktae affected those working from home during the weekend through Monday morning as parts of Pune witnessed frequent power outages. Areas like Baner, Balewadi on the western parts of the city and Kondhwa and NIBM road on the eastern parts were the worst affected due to power outage affecting those working from home due to the Covid pandemic. In Baner and Balewadi, there was no electricity since Sunday evening while voltage kept fluctuating during Monday morning. “As it was a Sunday there was no work, but today we were worried as my work from home began. The electricity supply went on and off several times, affecting my work but we can understand that it is due to winds and continuous rain,” said Ameya Karambelkar, an IT professional and a resident of Baner. Sachin Alande from Sukhsagar nagar in Bibwewadi however had to miss his morning work. “I have a morning shift starting from 8am until 4 pm, when I started my work within an hour electricity went off and it kept on fluctuating, there was no continuous supply till afternoon and due to which I missed a major deadline at work today. When I called up to the local MSEDCL office, no one picked up the call,” said Alande, a working professional from KPO industry. Parts of Hadapsar too witnessed disruption in electricity supply for around seven to eight hours before it was restored by afternoon. Vipul Alekar, working professional from Hadapsar said, “On Sunday, we had a power cut for around eight hours in the evening. On Monday morning, there were power outages at least for 10 times. We couldn’t do any office work, or any household works like washing clothes in the washer. Rain and wind have brought in grass and tree leaves the electricity transformer in our area.” The rains began late on Sunday and continued through Monday morning. Overnight, Shivajinagar in Pune reported 8.2 mm rainfall while Lohegaon reported 6.2 mm and Pashan reported 9.9 mm rainfall. The gusty winds that caused damage to houses and school buildings in rural parts and tree falling incidents in some areas of city on Sunday, stopped by morning, the rain stopped by noon. Nishikant Raut, MSEDCL’s public relation officer of Pune zone said, “The cyclone and rain effect are certainly there in some parts of the city though there was no major power cut for long hours anywhere in Pune. Our team of workers were functioning round the clock since yesterday to act on the complaints received, due to tree fallings and other disturbance there was power cut or fluctuations happening. Now everything is under control and going on smoothly.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/tauktae-effect-interruptions-in-work-from-home-due-to-frequent-power-cuts-101621264930328.html
17-05-2021||Pune||54-year-old in custody for sexual assault of minor||A 54-year-old man was remanded to custody of Pimpri-Chinchwad police on Monday for sexual assault of a three-year-old girl in Chakan. The arrested man was identified as Kaluram Shantaram Gawade (54), a farmer who was currently residing in a residential building in Chakan, Khed. “The man is known to the child. He approached her in the garden. He is in custody now,” said senior police inspector Ashok Rajput of Chakan police station. A local court remanded the man to four days in police custody on Monday. The girl was in the garden of a residential building when the man approached her and forced her to have unnatural intercourse with him, according to a complaint lodged in the matter. The crime was committed around 8pm on May 14. A case in the matter was lodged in the early morning hours of May 16. A case under Sections 376(2)(i)(j)(n) and 377 of Indian Penal Code along with Sections 4 and 8 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offence (POCOS) Act, 2012 was registered against the man at Chakan police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/54yearold-in-custody-for-sexual-assault-of-minor-101621264870361.html
17-05-2021||Pune||₹6 crore worth sandalwood seized, five arrested||The Pimpri-Chinchwad police arrested five men and recovered 207 sandalwood trunks worth ₹6 crore from them, according to Krishna Prakash, commissioner of Pimpri-Chinchwad police. The five arrested were identified as Nilesh Vilas Dhengre (35), a resident of Sangamner in Ahmednagar; MA Salim (43), a resident of Shimoga in Karnataka; Vinod Prakashh Fernandes (45), a resident of Katkarwadi in Navi Mumbai; Zakirhusain Abdulrehman Shaikh (50), a resident of Trombay in Mumabi; and Mintobhai alias Nirmalsingh Manjitsingh Gill (36), a resident of Kalamboli in Navi Mumbai, according to the police. Dhengre, Salim, and Fernandes were first arrested by the officials of Wakad police station, Police Naik Vandu Gire and Hawaldar Rejendra Kale, who were on a night patrol on the night of May 12, according to the police. They were in a Maruti 800 car in Tathawade area of Pimpri-Chinchwad. The front number plate of the car was missing, and the back number plate was broken which allegedly raised the suspicion. “The two people who were standing behind the car ran away when the police started asking them questions,” read a statement from the police. The police found pictures of the red sandalwood in Dhengre’s phone which was shared with someone. The technical analysis of his phone led the police to track the truck. The truck was full of 207 red sandalwood tree trunks weighing 6.420 tonne. The total worth of the seizure including the trunks, one truck, a Maruti 800 car, and two mobile phones as estimated to be ₹6, 52, 45,000, according to the police. A case under Sections 420 (cheating), 467, 468, 471 (using forged as genuine), 120(b) (criminal conspiracy), 379 (theft), and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code along with Sections 41 and 42 with 45, 52, 65(a), 69 of the Indian Forest Act, 1927; and Sections 37 and 82 of Maharashtra Forest Rules, 2014 was registered at Wakad police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/rs-6-crore-worth-sandalwood-seized-five-arrested-101621264750537.html
17-05-2021||Pune||Absconding RTO agent who duped multiple citizens nabbed||The Pune police crime branch have arrested an RTO agent who was absconding since 2017 in connection with a case related to cheating scores of citizens to the tune of lakhs of rupees. The accused was identified as Vishal Sonawne (41), a resident of Jambhulwadi on Katraj road who had allegedly promised to complete the RTO work related to vehicle passing and registration work for his victims and duped them on the pretext of completing their work. Sonawane took vehicle registration from a company and for that an advance of ₹4.50 lakh was taken. He did not complete the said work and an FIR under IPC 420 (cheating ) was lodged against him at Mundhwa Police Station. The investigation was handed over to Crime Branch Unit I which during a detailed investigation found that the accused had cheated a number of persons including big companies and took lakhs of rupees from them. The crime branch investigation led the sleuths to Bund Garden police station where they found another FIR lodged against him. The modus operandi of the accused was to set up office in plush areas and released advertisement on just dial as RTO agent to trap new victims. The sleuths received an information that accused was visiting powerhouse area in Rasta peth. Based on the information of police constable Yogesh Jatap, a team of crime branch officials under the guidance of their in-charge police inspector Bharat Jadhav laid a trap and arrested the accused. Jadhav said, “During custodial interrogation, he revealed the crimes he had committed and also told us about involvement in defrauding case, an FIR of which was lodged at Kondhwa police station. We are investigation as more leads are emerging in the case.” Besides Kondhwa, Mundhwa and Bundgarden , cases have been lodged against him at Bharati Vidyapeeth and Khadki police stations respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/absconding-rto-agent-who-duped-multiple-citizens-nabbed-101621264690379.html
17-05-2021||Pune||Private hospital refuses to release Covid victim’s body for three days; Pune admin launches inquiry||Pune: A private hospital in rural parts of Pune has come under fire from the relatives of a Covid-19 deceased person. The relatives complained that the hospital held back the body of the deceased for over three days and kept it in the morgue. Following the complaints raised by the relatives and the local MP, the district administration has launched an inquiry. The district administration has formed an eight-member committee chaired by civic surgeon Dr Ashok Nandapurkar. The committee would visit the hospital on Tuesday. Dr Nandapurkar said, “The hospital is a private medical college and we got the complaint that the patient died due to Covid-19 on May 1. The body was discharged three days later. We will visit the hospital on Tuesday and investigate.” Member of Parliament, Shrirang Barne, said, “I got a call that the hospital, Maharashtra Institute of Medical Education and Research or MIMER, refused to release the body for three days due to pending bill. The deceased was a vegetable vendor and bills were to be cleared through MPJAY (Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Jan Arogya Yojana) which was not done because the hospital had not informed the authorities about the death. I reached the hospital and the authorities later handed over the body.” Dr Suchitra Nagre, trustee and executive director of MIMER, said, “The allegations are wrong. The body was not held back because of pending bills, but the relatives could not claim the body as it was weekend. May 1 was holiday and May 2 was Sunday so they did not take it and we had only 2-3 staff present at the hospital. On Monday, the MP visited the hospital along with the relatives who claimed that we had not handed over the body, however we tried to convey our side. The body was handed over immediately. In our 25 years of working as a medical college, we have never held back a body or even a patient because of pending bills. However, during this unprecedented Covid situation, we feel that our work is not appreciated.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/private-hospital-refuses-to-release-covid-victim-s-body-for-three-days-pune-admin-launches-inquiry-101621264630360.html
17-05-2021||Pune||Cyclone Tauktae: Minor damage in rural areas, 14 cases of tree falling reported on Monday||In comparison to Sunday, fewer cases of tree falls were reported on Monday due to the inclement weather caused by the passing cyclone Tauktae. However, cases of minor damages to homes have been reported in rural parts. Pune city and rural parts experienced less intensity wind with rainfall on Monday. In total, 14 cases of tree falls were reported in the city from areas of Katraj, Dhankavadi, Koregaon Park, Hadapsar, Somwar peth and Ganeshkhind Road. In rural parts, minor damage to houses and school buildings have been reported in Khed, Bhor and Mulshi tehsil. The administration has started the panchanama procedure to assess the damage caused to houses and the agriculture sector. “All the necessary precautions were taken. We also spoke to public representatives. We had given specific instructions and made sure that those were followed. Total damage to roofs across Pune district is only reported from Mulshi, Bhor and Khed. The damage has been done in the narrow ghat areas and the speed of wind was over 100-120 km/hr. The administration had taken necessary precautions because of which no loss of life and severe injury has been reported in the rural parts. The damage to property has also been minimised,” said Ayush Prasad, Pune Zilla Parishad CEO. The cases of tree falling were also reduced on Monday. On Sunday, 40 cases were reported until 9 pm. “On Monday until 4 pm, we attended 14 calls of tree falling but most of them were in the early morning. As the alert has been issued, we request people to be at safe places,” said Nilesh Mahajan, a fire officer in PMC fire department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/cyclone-tauktae-minor-damage-in-rural-areas-14-cases-of-tree-falling-reported-on-monday-101621264630918.html
17-05-2021||Pune||Case of attempted murder against “victim” in fight over WhatsApp status||A case of attempted murder was registered by Pune police against a 28-year-old deceased man based on a complaint by one of his assailants in Bibwewadi area on Sunday. While the deceased was identified as Madhav Waghate, the complainant was identified as Sawan Gawli (23) who is currently in police custody for Waghate’s murder. Waghate was found dead in the small hours of Saturday near the house of his friend named Sunil Khapte in Bibwewadi. A group of around 10 men attacked Waghate with tube light, rods and cement blocks, according to a complaint by one of his friends. “Gawali is under arrest. All these people involved in the case are known to each other. Waghate was in a fight over some reason with a man from their locality. Gawli had kept a status to wish this man on his birthday and that enraged Waghate,” said police sub inspector Atul Thorat of Bibwewadi police station who is investigating the case. The status update was to wish Anand Nivrutti Kamthe, according to the police. The reason behind the rivalry between Kamthe and Waghate could not be verified immediately. In his complaint, Gawli submitted that when he was standing with his friend Sunil Ghate near the Ganapati Temple in Bibwewadi on Saturday, Waghate approached him and threatened to kill him. He then attacked Gawli with a sickle, bamboo, and stones, according to Gawli’s complaint. There have been no arrests in this case yet. A case under Sections 307 (attempted murder), rioting of Indian Penal Code along with Section 37(1)with 135 of Maharashtra Police Act was registered at Bibwewadi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/case-of-attempted-murder-against-victim-in-fight-over-whatsapp-status-101621264570415.html
17-05-2021||Pune||Ganesh idol makers stare at losses due to lockdown in Pune||Pune: Ganesh idol makers in the city are facing a livelihood crisis as the Covid lockdown has caused shortage of raw material and sharp drop in demand for their product. The traditional idol makers in Peth areas said that the demand for Ganesh idols has come down to mere 30 per cent as compared to 2018. According to them, the 2019 floods hit their business and they had to sustain huge losses. And the Covid outbreak in 2020 followed by continuous lockdowns extending to 2021 has made their survival difficult. Naresh Mhatre, a Navi Peth-based idol maker, said, “Our family used to make 3,000 to 4,000 idols during the season, but it now come down to 500-600 and that too with materials shortage it would be difficult to reach half the mark. We usually start receiving orders in March and April, but this year we are waiting for enquiries even as late as May as many of our customers are down with Covid or have lost their near and dear ones to the virus. The pandemic situation has ruined the business and the hope of revival till the festival draws near is dim,” he said. Abhijit Dhondphale, another artisan, said, “The Centre and state governments must take a firm decision on allowing POP for idol making. The livelihood of many idol makers and their families is at stake due to the Covid lockdown and restrictions. We are facing raw material shortage due to restrictions on transport and other factors.” Environment minister Prakash Javadekar had deferred ban on use of Plaster of Paris (PoP) for making Ganesh idols in 2020, by one year with the aim to help artisans. However, the decision was criticised by environmentalists as PoP is harmful to the environment. Meanwhile, on May 13, 2020, the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) had published guidelines banning the use of PoP, thermocol, and single-use plastic for making idols across India. Dyes and toxic chemicals used to colour idols, too, were proposed to be banned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/ganesh-idol-makers-stare-at-losses-due-to-lockdown-in-pune-101621263970350.html
17-05-2021||Other||Forest dept reunites 25-day-old leopard cub with mother after rescue op||PUNE The Wildlife SOS and forest department reunited a 25-day-old leopard cub with its mother, in a rescue operation on Monday. The cub was found last week stranded in a sugarcane field in Vadgaon Anand village, located in the Junnar division of Pune district. The farmers in Vadgaon Anand village were out harvesting their sugarcane crops, when they heard mewling sounds coming from the field. On taking a closer look, they were stunned to find a baby leopard. As they are trained in preliminary rescue protocols, as human-leopard interaction is very high in this area, the farmers immediately alerted members of the village rescue team, trained by the Maharashtra Forest Department and Wildlife SOS.Soon after, two rescue units from Wildlife SOS and the forest department rushed to the location with the necessary equipment and medical kit to examine the cub. The on-site examination of leopard cubs is conducted to ascertain age and whether or not they are wounded or suffering from any infection or showing signs of dehydration.The cub was identified as a female, estimated to be about 25-days-old. On being deemed healthy and fit for release by Wildlife SOS wildlife veterinary officer, Dr Nikhil Bangar, the cub was placed in a safe-box .“We installed camera traps to document the happy reunion. The mother leopard slowly approached the field around midnight, after being drawn by her cub’s distinct scent and vocalisation. She was quick to tip the safe-box over and carefully picked up the cub to relocate to a safer location,” said Dr Bangar. Kartick Satyanarayan, co-founder and CEO of Wildlife SOS, said, “Leopard cubs stay with their mothers until they are two-years old, learning the necessary skills of survival, all the while exploring their natural habitat and honing their senses. For this young cub, the separation from its mother could have easily meant death or a life in captivity. To avoid situations like that, we undertake every effort to make such rescue and reunion operations possible and successful.”Yogesh Ghodake, range forest officer, Otur, said, “Such incidents are quite common for villagers residing near the scrub forests of Maharashtra, which is the natural habitat of a large population of leopards.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/forest-dept-reunites-25-day-old-leopard-cub-with-mother-after-rescue-op-101621263670331.html
17-05-2021||Other||Undri projects assessed from 2017 onwards to pay double current property tax rate||PUNE Residents from a few housing societies in Undri have received property tax bills where they claim to have been charged double the current rate. All Undri projects assessed from 2017 onwards have received a tax bill that is double the current rate.As per PMC norms, the first tax bill is received after a property completes three years from date of completion. The societies which have received the double tax rate are Ganga Glitz, Silver Hill 2BHK and 38 Park Majestique. Residents of Silver Hill society have been issued a first tax bill of ₹72,000 for four yrs (2017 to 2021), approx. ₹18,000 per year for 750 sqft of carpet area (960 sqft built-up).When compared to standard PMC rates applied to other residential societies in the area, the bill should not be more than ₹8,000 to ₹10,000 per year. (see box)Milind Chaturbhuj, divisional inspector, Undri Tax office, said, “The societies which have received more taxes come under PMC jurisdiction. All are new constructions, while the others were registered under the gram panchayat. We had informed builders about the increase in tax rate, but many of these residents are still not aware of it.”A resident of Silver Hill society on the request on anonymity said, “As responsible citizens, we will pay the property tax. The taxation is double that of neighbourhood buildings, as well as more than that paid by more developed locations in PMC. There cannot be this disparity in rates without transparency. We hope the authorities take note, correct the bills in the future and discount the overcharged amounts in future bills.” Residents in Undri have also complained about no PMC water connection available.“No water line has been received by our society and we purchase water from vendors: Yet charges applied by PMC is ₹3,010 per resident, per year. We have only received a garbage collection service and access to the sewage drain. No other services are provided in the past four years. Still we have been told to pay double the tax,” said a resident of Ganga Glitz society.Sanket Nichat, a resident of 38 Park Majestique said, “I have received a tax bill of ₹65,000 for four years, which is more than what our nearby societies have received. Due to lockdown we are not able to go to the PMC office and complain.”One resident who did visit the Undri PMC tax office, claims that the officer said that the bill is “system generated and correct.”Property tax rates in Undri Sai Ganga 1BHK - ₹6,500Atur Nagar 2 BHK - ₹6,000Ganga Estoria 2BHK - ₹8,800WaterRidge 3BHK – ₹10,000Hills and Dales Ph3, 3BHK - ₹12,000Societies that received an increased tax billGanga Glitz 2BHK - ₹19,000Silver Hill 2BHK – ₹18,000||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/undri-projects-assessed-from-2017-onwards-to-pay-double-current-property-tax-rate-101621262770378.html
17-05-2021||Patna||We are aghast, says Patna high court at discrepancy in govt statistics of deaths||Patna:The Patna high court on Monday signalled its displeasure at the inconsistency in the government’s figures of deaths in two affidavits filed by top officials and told the government to file the data afresh after verifying them from all sources.“We are aghast at the manner in which the affidavits are being filed. The bench deserves better treatment from the government. We don’t appreciate this,” a bench of Chief Justice Sanjay Karol and Justice Sanjay Kumar said on Monday after reviewing two affidavits filed by chief secretary and Patna divisional commissioner on deaths in Buxar district. The bench had earlier sought a detailed affidavit from the Patna divisional commission in course of a hearing on a public interest litigation (PIL) on Covid management after the “disturbing” issue of corpses floating in the Ganga river was reported.The bench was upset that while the chief secretary’s affidavit said only six deaths had taken place in Buxar since March 1, 2021, there were 789 cremations mentioned in the commissioner’s affidavit at just one cremation ghat, Muktidham Charitarban, Buxar, under the Nagar Parishad between May 5 and May 14.“The CS (chief secretary) does not say that six deaths are only due to Covid. The commissioner also does not say that 789 deaths are non-Covid ones. The total population of Buxar is 17 lakh, but the figures are only for Nagar Parishad. There is no mention of the religion or age groups of the dead. Hindus may be a majority in Buxar, but that does not mean there is none from other religions. Last rites may also have been performed at burial grounds,” the bench said.Advocate general Lali Kishore conceded that certain clarifications were required to reconcile the data and promised to come back to the court after getting the details.The judges told Lali Kishore, the state’s top officer, to vet the affidavits before they are filed with the court.“At this point in time, we do not comment anything further on these affidavits, but all facts first must be verified from all sources and then only placed before us, else it will amount to filing of false/incomplete affidavit.,” the bench observed, ordering the state to depute at least two technically qualified persons to update the data.The bench said they also wanted to know the age group of the people who had died, irrespective of whether the deaths were attributed to Covid-19 or not. “If the young people are dying, it is serious,” it said.The bench also noted that the state hadn’t been updating the websites with the correct figures“We notice that the official website maintained by the State of Bihar for recording births and deaths has not yet been updated. We see no reason as to why the deaths, be it 6 or 789, would not have been updated on the official website. Equally, this would apply to all the districts of Bihar,” the bench observed.Oxygen supplyThe bench also wanted to know if the state had been provided with enough tankers for transportation of 400 metric tonnes of liquid medical oxygen (LMO) it had demanded. Additional Solicitor General (ASG) K N Singh said the Centre had allocated the demanded quantity and the issue of transportation had been resolved.“Let an affidavit of the principal secretary, health, verifying such fact, be filed within next two days. He shall also inform the sufficiency or lack thereof, of the infrastructure for transporting the entire allocated quota of oxygen (LMO). He shall apprise the Court of the infrastructure for storage and transportation up to the point of end user,” the bench said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/we-are-aghast-says-patna-high-court-at-discrepancy-in-govt-statistics-of-deaths-101621262711315.html
17-05-2021||Other||Tripura launches education channel to combat academic loss amid Covid-19 pandemic||In a bid to minimize educational loss and avoid any dropout amid the Covid-19 pandemic, the Tripura government on Monday launched an education channel for the first time offering lessons on the school academic syllabus. “This initiative was taken for the students to get lessons despite all educational institutions being shut amid the pandemic. We have adopted as many as 24 different initiatives to provide quality education to the students in these 3.5 years. It will help cut educational loss across the state through offering lessons for 24x7,” chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb told the media after launching Vande Tripura channel from the civil secretariat. Vande Tripura, the 24x7 channel, would telecast different academic discussions, news related to education and education department and is scheduled to start live classes from June 1. Earlier, the education department launched video lectures on local TV channels, online platforms, SMS-based classes, neighbourhood classes, students helpline, among other initiatives for school students. State education minister Ratan Lal Nath said that though they achieved success by adopting various educational schemes after coming to power in 2018, the progress was stalled due to the pandemic. “We have experienced 36 per cent loss in education since the Covid-19 pandemic hit the country. The decision of opening the educational channel has been taken to cover the loss,” said Nath. All educational institutions, including schools, colleges and universities, were shut since April 9 for an indefinite period amid the second wave of Covid-19. The state has nearly 4,400 government and aided schools with 22 government degree colleges and two universities. Earlier, the educational institutions were shut for almost nine months since mid-March last year due to the Covid-19 pandemic. During the period, the education department continued classes via online mode. At least 29 per cent of students were found unable to access both mobile phones and cable televisions, according to a survey conducted in last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tripura-launches-education-channel-to-combat-academic-loss-amid-covid-19-pandemic-101621262410873.html
17-05-2021||Other||QMaN aims to network LGBTQIA community to help with legal, govt issues||PUNE Prasad Pramod Thete, a transgender who also goes by the name Mamta, claims that he has been unable to get an identity certificate that declares him a transgender.“I am at home with no job. I wanted to avail of the government schemes, but without a certificate, which I applied for in December 2020, I cannot avail of these schemes,” said Thete.It because of cases like Thete, and also to mark the International Day against Homophobia, Biphobia, and Transphobia observed on May 17, that the Bindu Queer Rights Foundation announced the starting of Queer Maharashtra Network, aimed at enabling lesbian, gay, transgender, intersex, queer, and asexual (QMaN) individuals, help each other.Bindumadhav Khire, director, Bindu Queer Rights Foundation, who is leading the initiative, said that this network will push for issues related to the community which are still not acted upon. “The biggest hurdle many members of the community face are their identity certificates, so that they can avail and benefit from the many government schemes for the LGBTQIA community,” said Khire, who has been helping transgenders get their identity cards. “It has been six months that members who applied are still awaiting registration. We even put up an RTI and it has resulted in no further progress. With this network, I aim to help them get their registrations and certificates at the earliest,” Khire addedOther issues Khire pointed out included rations for Ttansgenders and legal support for gays.“While the provision of services and support to individuals from the LGBTQIA community is very important, the lack of a local-level network has stagnated the movement in terms of advocacy and expansion of rights. Some of the areas on which these lacunae have been repeatedly noticed are legal, but also inclusive education for police personnel, medical personnel and political leaders; and empowering local social structures shelter homes.” he added.The office for administration of the network will be Bindu Queer Rights Foundation office in Pune. Email Bindumadhav Khire, director, Bindu Queer Rights Foundation on bindumadhav.khire@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/qman-aims-to-network-lgbtqia-community-to-help-with-legal-govt-issues-101621261750293.html
17-05-2021||Other||Sassoon docs save life of tribal child attacked by wild boar in Lavasa||PUNE A 11-year-old tribal resident of Lavasa was severely injured in an attack by a wild boar on May 10. The child was rushed to the Paediatric Surgery department at Sassoon General Hospital in Pune, where after surgery, his life was saved. The child is now recovering and will be discharged soon.Doctors from the hospital said that the child had incurred deep wounds on his chest.Dr Minakshi Nalbale-Bhosale, associate professor and head of department of Paediatric Surgery, said that the muscles of the child were stripped apart and his ribs were torn to pieces. “The lungs were peeking out of the wound. The child was at risk of dying due to broken ribs causing serious lung and heart injuries. In addition, prevention of infection like rabies was a matter of concern. The child needed emergency medication as well as emergency surgery,” said Dr Bhosale.Dr Bhosale added that the department is planning to publish a report on the case.“No such cases with serious injuries on the chest have been reported in a child so far,” said Dr Bhosale.On May 10, the child was successfully operated on by a team of paediatric surgeons led by Dr Nalbale-Bhosale, along with Dr Varsha Soni, Dr Amir Iqbal Ali and Dr Shital Bhaisare. Dr Kirti Kundalwal and team, Dr Sanyogita Naik and Dr Sunita Khade, were the anaesthesiologists.Dr Malan Parande, Dr Ganesh Jagdale and Dr Ravi Shivshete from the department of Preventive and Social Medicine ensure no rabies-like infection||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sassoon-docs-save-life-of-tribal-child-attacked-by-wild-boar-in-lavasa-101621261690278.html
17-05-2021||Other||Keep certificates ready for admissions: Directorate of Technical Education||PUNE The Directorate of Technical Education (DTE), Maharashtra, issued a circular on Monday, appealing to students to keep their necessary documents ready for admissions to the various technical courses. This year, the Class 10 board exams (SSC) have been cancelled and the dates for the Class 12 exam (HSC) have not yet been declared.Despite this, DTE is gearing up for admissions to its technical courses.As per the circular, issued by Abhay Wagh, DTE state director, “Admissions for the academic year 2021-22, first- and second-year diploma courses, and first-year post HSC (Class 12) diploma course, will be carried out by a central entrance exam test. While applying for the course students need to submit necessary documents. All aspirants need to keep their documents ready, which will be verified at the time of the admission.”There are several documents as per the category of the student who needs to be submitted. These include caste certificate, open-category economically backward certificate, domicile certificate; and if the student is orphan, then an orphan certificate; if the student is disabled, then a disability certificate; apart from several other certificates. Girish Mani, a class 10 student, said, “I have now passed class 10 as per the state government decision and want to pursue a career in mechanical engineering. For that I will first take admission to an engineering diploma course. I have kept all my necessary documents ready and am only waiting for the process to start.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/keep-certificates-ready-for-admissions-directorate-of-technical-education-101621261151535.html
17-05-2021||Other||‘3 killed in exchange of fire between security forces, Maoists in Chhattisgarh’s Sukma’: Police||Three people were killed in an exchange of fire between Maoists and security forces in the forest in front of a newly established camp of security forces in Chhattisgarh’s Sukma on Monday, a police official said.No security personnel were injured in the incident, police said.“The exchange of fire started on Monday afternoon at Silger in Sukma along the inter-district border of Bijapur and Sukma, in which three people were killed,” said IG Bastar range Sunderaj P.Senior officials said that they are yet to ascertain whether the deceased were Maoists or civilians as a group of villagers were protesting against the establishment of the camp till Sunday evening.The IG further said since the past few days, a group of villagers were staging a protest under the pressure of Maoists in front of Silger camp against the establishment of the camp.“The area is core Maoists’ area and the villagers were protesting under the pressure of Maoists. On Sunday night, they returned to their villages but on Monday afternoon some people, including some Maoists of Jagargonda Area Committee of Maoists, reached the camp and started firing. When the camp was attacked, the security personnel retaliated and the exchange of fire continued. After the firing stopped, we found three dead bodies which are yet to be identified,” said the IG.“The bodies could be of Maoists but we will able to say anything after identification. Senior police officers are at the spot and reinforcement have been sent,” said the IG.The encounter spot is located eight to 10 kilometres away from the site of the Naxal attack that took place on April 3 in Sukma district where 22 security personnel were killed.“We are still searching the forest and more details are awaited,” the IG said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/3-killed-in-exchange-of-fire-between-security-forces-maoists-in-chhattisgarh-s-sukma-police-101621259470765.html
17-05-2021||Other||Fire brigade unable to enter Dighi hsg society, because gate too small; tragedy averted||PUNE Residents of the Legacy Sannidhi housing society in Dighi, switched to panic mode for a few hours early on Monday morning, after a transformer caught fire and the fire engines was unable to enter the premises.The entry gate to the housing society was too small to accommodate the fire brigade’s vehicles.An official of from the Bhosari fire station, requesting anonymity, said, “The entry gate was small so we could not enter the premises. We tried to reverse the vehicle in, but it was not possible.”“The incident happened at 8am and fire was brought under control at 8.45pm. The fire brigade could not enter the society gate, so we switched off the main connection and later, all the residents spread water over the transformer,” said Ajit Garud, chairman, Legacy Sannidhi.This is the first such incident at the Legacy Sannidhi housing society.“A fire audit needs to be done of our society and the non-objection-certificate by the fire safety department, given to buildings, should be verified to avert such situations in future,” added Garud.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/fire-brigade-unable-to-enter-dighi-hsg-society-because-gate-too-small-tragedy-averted-101621259411896.html
17-05-2021||Delhi||Khan Chacha owner Navneet Kalra remanded to three-day police custody in oxygen concentrator case||A Delhi court on Monday remanded businessman and owner of popular eatery, Khan Chacha, Navneet Kalra to three-day police custody in connection with a case of alleged hoarding of oxygen concentrators at his restaurant in the national capital. Kalra was arrested on Sunday night after evading police for eight days. Delhi police has sought custody of the restaurateur for five days for questioning.Public prosecutor Atul Shrivastav told the court that eight complaints have already been filed against Kalra, who has been evading arrest, and that the society was counting on the judiciary and the police. Shrivastav also told the court that Kalra had to be questioned to find out the details of his operation as among the 748 oxygen concentrators reportedly imported by Kalra only 524 could be traced.Kalra through his counsel Vineet Malhotra told the court that he has been made a “poster boy” in the case when online platforms like Amazon have been allegedly selling similar equipment for ₹1.5 lakh. Urging the state to act like a prosecuting agency and not a persecuting one, his counsel also informed the court that details of manufacturers and machines have been handed over to the police, even as his accountant has been picked up by the cops for questioning.Delhi police had seized 524 oxygen concentrators from three restaurants owned by Kalra -- Khan Chacha, Nega Ju, Town Hall -- and from a storage in Chattarpur owned by a company called Matrix Cellular. Investigators have told the court previously that they are in possession of evidence to show Kalra was selling concentrators bought for ₹14,000-15,000 at an inflated price of ₹75,000 and above.The Delhi high court had refused interim bail protection to Kalra on Friday even as his high-profile legal team comprising senior lawyers Abhishek Manu Singhvi and Vikas Pahwa called the case a “harassment of their client”, adding that punishment cannot be meted out to Kalra since the price of oxygen concentrators, an essential commodity, has not been fixed by the governmentKalra’s counsel also informed the court that he suffered a fall and had to be given stitches on his jaw while asking for permission for him to be allowed access to liquid food and a visit to Medanta hospital for a check-up.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/khan-chacha-owner-navneet-kalra-remanded-to-three-day-custody-in-oxygen-concentrator-case-101621258461844.html
17-05-2021||Delhi||Cancel FIRs for posters against vaccine export, says Delhi lawyer in SC plea||A Delhi-based lawyer has filed public interest litigation in the Supreme Court to quash over two dozen criminal cases lodged against people alleged to have put up posters in Delhi criticising Prime Minister Narendra Modi for the shortage of Covid-19 vaccine doses in the country.Lawyer Pradeep Kumar Yadav said the arrests were “illegal” and asked the top court to direct the police chiefs of Delhi and Uttar Pradesh not to register any more first information reports (FIRs) and produce the records relating to the FIRs already registered.Most of the FIRS invoke section 188 of the Indian Penal Code (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), section 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of any disease dangerous to life), section 34 (common intention) besides provisions of other laws such as Delhi Prevention of Defacement of Property Act, Delhi Disaster Management Act and Epidemic Act.Yadav’s petition said at least 25 FIRs have been registered in connection with posters that surfaced across the national capital “questioning Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the vaccination policy in a sarcastic tone.” It said most people persons arrested by the Delhi Police were daily wagers or jobless youth who were hired to put up posters and banners across the city that said, “Modiji hamare bachhon ki vaccine videsh kyun bhej diya (PM Modi, why did you send the vaccines meant for our children to foreign countries)”.The arrest had triggered a sharp attack on the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party government at the Centre and the Delhi Police from opposition parties. On Sunday, the Delhi Police said their probe revealed that Aam Aadmi Party workers printed and pasted the posters in south, west and east Delhi. Durgesh Pathak of the Aam Aadmi Party dared the Centre to arrest him, saying that he and his party had posted the posters across the city. Leaders of the rival Congress also challenged the government to arrest them. Senior Congress leader Rahul Gandhi shared a digital copy of the poster on his Twitter account and said: “Arrest me too”. Rahul Gandhi’s party called the police action an attempt by the Modi government to muzzle criticism. Party spokesperson Pawan Khera said the Congress will ask the question on behalf of the lakhs of people who died before their time or were living in “worry, tensions and sorrow”.The petition filed in the Supreme Court said the police action was contrary to the Supreme Court’s recent direction restraining the police from registering criminal cases against people for seeking medical help over social media. Police said most of the people arrested in cases related to the posters had been released on bail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/cancel-firs-for-posters-against-vaccine-export-says-delhi-lawyer-in-sc-plea-101621258150580.html
17-05-2021||Lucknow||BJP MLAs speak up on UP government's handling of Covid-19 pandemic||The BJP’s Sitapur MLA has become the latest to join the list of ruling party lawmakers in Uttar Pradesh who have expressed resentment over Covid-19 management in the state, saying he feared a sedition charge for speaking up.“What standing do MLAs have? If we speak too much, treason and sedition charges will be slapped on us as well,” Rakesh Rathore told reporters last week, according to a video clip which surfaced Monday.The MLA was replying to a question about ICU facilities in Sitapur.Pressed further, he said, "Do you think any MLA can put forward his point of view?"“Everything is going fine. I will only say that things couldn’t be better,” he said in a sarcastic vein, while replying to another question.“I am not the government. But I can definitely say that whatever the government is telling you, it should be considered as correct," he said.Asked why the district administration is lacking in efforts to control the crisis, the MLA said the government and administration are two sides of the same coin.Other members of the ruling BJP in Uttar Pradesh too have questioned Yogi Adityanath’s handling of the second wave of the coronavirus pandemic.On May 9, Union Labour minister Santosh Gangwar complained to the chief minister about the situation in his Bareilly constituency, saying officials don't take calls and government health centres send back patients for 'referrals' from the district hospital.In a letter to Adityanath, he also complained about the “big shortage” of empty oxygen cylinders and the high prices of medical equipment in Bareilly.A day later, BJP MLA from Jasrana in Firozabad Ramgopal Lodhi claimed that his coronavirus positive wife was not admitted to an Agra hospital for over three hours, with officials saying that beds were not available.The upset MLA posted a video clip with his complaint on social media, causing embarrassment to the government.Lodhi claimed that his wife was not given medicines and water on time."What will happen to a common man when an MLA's wife cannot be given proper care," he said in the video, alleging that his wife had to lie on the hospital floor.In April, a "confidential" letter written by UP Law Minister Brajesh Pathak surfaced on social media. Pathak had lashed out at his state's health authorities, complaining that beds for coronavirus patients were falling short and ambulances took hours to arrive in the state capital.The minister did not reject the authenticity of the letter, which appeared to challenge the UP government's claim that it is on top of the situation."I had written a confidential letter to the government," he had told PTI, declining to share its contents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/bjp-mlas-speak-up-on-up-government-s-handling-of-covid-19-pandemic-101621257022257.html
17-05-2021||Pune||Pune admin supplies low dosage tocilizumab vials to hospitals over shortage||Pune: Apart from regulated supply of tocilizumab vials to hospitals, the district administration has also brought down the dose among the 980 vials distributed to hospitals on Monday. The dosages were supplied to 107 hospitals across Pune, Pimpri-Chinchwad and Pune rural. Instead of the regular 400 mg dose in each vial of the immunosuppressive drug used in the treatment of Covid-19, the administration on Monday supplied 80 mg vials. According to doctors, a severe Covid-19 patient needs 400 mg of each dose which could be two doses if the health situation does not improve. With the present supply, hospitals will have to give five vials to such Covid cases. The district administration has asked hospitals and doctors to exercise caution while administering the drugs. On Monday, in a letter to district hospitals that had requested tocilizumab 400 mg vials, the admin supplied 40mg vials. Just like remdesivir, the distribution of tocilizumab is also restricted by the Pune district administration. Hospitals are unable to procure the drug directly. The letter signed by Pune district collector Rajesh Deshmukh states: “the demand for tocilizumab has risen steadily and the drug is not made in India but imported and distributed by Cipla across the country. The earlier stock distributed on May 4 was tocilizumab 400 mg. However, the stock provided on May 17 is 80 mg. So, it is advised that the prescription must be in accordance with the Covid patient’s severity.” As per an annexure by the central government, tocilizumab 400 mg must be administered slowly over NS IV over 60 minutes and the patient can be given an additional dose if the condition worsens. As a patient may need up to 800 mg of the drug, now 10 injections of the current dose have to be administered. Dr HK Sale, executive director of Noble hospitals that received 20 such vials, said, “With 20 vials of 80 mg dose, we can treat only four severe Covid cases as one patient needs dose of 400 mg. We have also been told to ration the drug.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-admin-supplies-low-dosage-tocilizumab-vials-to-hospitals-over-shortage-101621255389979.html
17-05-2021||Other||BJP MP Pragya Thakur says cow urine saves people from Covid-19||Cow urine can help beat Covid-19, Bharatiya Janata Party leader Pragya Thakur has said, urging party workers to also consume gau mutra.Speaking at a party event in Bhopal on Sunday, the party MP said, “I consumed cow urine daily and it is a kind of acid which purifies my body. It also purifies the lungs and saves me from Covid-19 infection. I don’t take any medicine against corona but I am safe.”Thakur then went on to explain how to consume it too. She said, “The urine should belong to a cow of indigenous breed...one who only grass from a forest. It should then be filtered at least 16 times using a cotton cloth before consumption.” Thakur stuck to her stand a day later and said on Monday, “I said what I practise. It is my belief and I didn’t force anybody to follow this.”Also Read | Despite second wave, Bhagwat’s comments indicate Sangh-BJP ties on trackEarlier, Thakur, who had gone through bilateral mastectomy, claimed that her breast cancer was cured due to cow urine and other by-products of cow. The Malegaon blast co-accused was missing from public life for the past four months due to ongoing health issues. Many locals and activists had also run a campaign against her for not extending any help to the people of Bhopal amid shortage of oxygen beds and Remdevisir injections. She has started attending public programmes recently.Meanwhile, the MP’s comments allowed the Congress to open a line of attack against her party. Congress spokesperson Jaiveer Shergill tweeted on Monday, “No wonder top virologist Shahid Jameel has quit Govt Covid Panel because BJP Brigade believes in quack formulas rather than scientific facts.” Many doctors have warned against using cow urine to ward off Covid-19 by confirming that its properties do not give any protection against the viral infection, and could cause other infections like black fungus or mucormycosis, which can be fatal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bjp-mp-pragya-thakur-says-cow-urine-saves-people-from-covid19-101621254370646.html
17-05-2021||Other||Body carried to crematorium on pushcart, probe ordered||PATNAAuthorities in Nalanda district have ordered a probe after a body being taken to crematorium in a garbage pushcart of Biharsharif municipal body went viral.The deceased man was identified as Manoj Kuamar, who stayed at his rented house at Jalalpur in Nalanda district.His maternal uncle Ramavtar Prasad said Manoj complained of uneasiness and was admitted to the Sadar hospital in Biharsharif last week. After two days, he was discharged. During his hospitalization, his swab samples were taken for Covid-19 test. Manoj died on May 13, though the results are still awaited. The family requested an ambulance, but it never arrived. “When the ambulance failed to turn up even after 18 hours, neighbours objected to the body being kept at our rented home as they feared spread of the infection,” said Prasad.When the family contacted local ward councillor Sushil Kumar, he allegedly demanded ₹22,000 for cremation. The amount was later settled at ₹16,500 after which two men wearing PPE kits came with a garbage pushcart. They wrapped the body with a bedsheet and took it to the burial ground. No family member accompanied the body.Locals residents have alleged that the ward councillor told them a committee had been formed for last rites of unclaimed bodies by the municipal corporation. Residents also wrote to district magistrate Yogendra Prasad seeking an inquiry.Municipal commissioner Anshul Agarwal said, “We are investigating the matter.” Nalanda civil surgeon Dr Sunil Kumar said, “We have more than 200 vehicles to take bodies to the crematorium. A proper investigation will be done into the matter and action will be taken against those who are found guilty.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/body-carried-to-crematorium-on-pushcart-probe-ordered-101621253109940.html
17-05-2021||Pune||Congress leader, Rajya Sabha member Rajeev Satav dies due to post-Covid complications||PUNE Congress leader and Rajya Sabha member Rajeev Satav died on Sunday due to post-Covid complications, Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope said. Satav was 46. A member of the All India Congress Committee (AICC), Satav breathed his last at 5am, four days after he was diagnosed with a fresh infection of the Cytomegalovirus, Tope said. The last rites will be conducted on Monday morning, his family members said. Satav had earlier contracted SARS-CoV-2 for which he was undergoing treatment at Jehangir Hospital. “Satav became RT-PCR negative on May 9. However, he succumbed to secondary pneumonia with multi-organ dysfunction syndrome,” the hospital stated in a statement. “He had recovered from Covid-19 and was taking some immunosuppressant drugs. He later developed a fresh infection due to which he had fibrosis in the lungs. Despite the best efforts of the doctors, he succumbed to the infection,” Tope said. Cytomegalovirus is a common virus that can cause complications for people with a weakened immune system. Satav was admitted to Jehangir hospital on April 23, a day after he tested positive for Covid-19. Due to some complications, he had to be shifted to the intensive care unit (ICU) and was on ventilator support. Last week, Satav recovered and tested negative for Covid-19. However, the fresh infection led to deterioration in his health, resulting in him being put on ventilator support again. “It’s very sad news. He was very close to me. I was in Pune to visit [him at the] hospital and enquire about his health. However, I lost my friend at around 5am,” said Tope. According to another Maharashtra minister, Vishwajeet Kadam, Satav’s lungs were heavily infected due to infection, which made it difficult for doctors. Senior leaders, including those from his party, paid their condolences. Prime Minister Narendra Modi in his condolence message tweeted: “Anguished by the passing away of my friend from Parliament, Shri Rajeev Satav Ji. He was an upcoming leader with much potential. Condolences to his family, friends and supporters.” Hailing from Hingoli, which he represented in the Lok Sabha between 2014 and 2019, Satav was considered a close associate of Congress leader Rahul Gandhi. “I’’m very sad at the loss of my friend Rajeev Satav. He was a leader with huge potential who embodied the ideals of Congress. It’s a big loss for us all. My condolences and love to his family,” tweeted Rahul Gandhi.Maharashtra Congress leaders said Satav’’s death is an irreparable loss. The NCP and Shiv Sena also expressed shock at his demise. NCP president Sharad Pawar said Satav’s death was shocking. Pawar described him as a studious and aggressive leader. Born on September 21, 1974, Satav studied at Pune’s Fergusson College and then, at the ILS Law college. Before becoming Lok Sabha MP, Satav was a legislator in the Maharashtra assembly.In the Congress, Satav, considered a close associate of Rahul Gandhi, was in charge of party’s affairs in Gujarat, where the Congress put up a spirited fight in the last assembly elections. Vice-president Venkaiah Naidu (chairperson of the Rajya Sabha) in his condolence message tweeted: “I’m deeply shocked by the untimely demise of Rajya Sabha member, Shri Rajiv Satav due to Covid-related complications. He was a dynamic parliamentarian and deeply committed to serving the people.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/congress-leader-rajya-sabha-member-rajeev-satav-dies-due-to-post-covid-complications-101621251730491.html
17-05-2021||Bangalore||9 crew members stranded at sea off Karnataka coast, rescued||All nine crew members of Tug Coromandel, a boat that was stranded at sea off Karnataka coast for over 24 hours, were rescued on Monday by the Indian Naval forces, Karnataka disaster management authorities stated.Five of the stranded crew members were rescued by a boat, the authorities said.“The tug drifted outside the port limits and ran aground rock,” said a senior official of the state disaster management authority.According to the state disaster management authorities, the tug boats, Alliance and Coromandel, were supposed to return on the night of May 14. Out of the eight people on the Tug Alliance, three have reached the shore and are undergoing treatment in a hospital in Udupi, according to disaster management authorities.On Saturday and Sunday, two bodies were recovered while three are missing, the authorities said, adding that among the two tug boats, three people are missing.The nine crew members on Tug Coromandel had to remain at the sea during the onslaught of Cyclone Tauktae which continues to lash the coastal parts of Karnataka and neighbouring Kerala.The Naval helicopter left from INS Garuda at Kochi, Kerala and after refuelling at Mangaluru airport, rescued the seamen who are now under medical treatment.Meanwhile, heavy rains and gusty winds continue to lash the coastal districts of Udupi, Dakshina Kannada and Uttara Kannada. Human and property losses have been reported from three districts in the Malnad region - Kodagu, Chikmagalur and Shivamogga- which have also received heavy and relentless rains in the last two days.At least six people have died due to the cyclone and its impact while 333 homes have been damaged so far. The total number of talukas or administrative units impacted has risen to 121 out of the total 178 in the state. Around 57 kilometres of roads have been damaged and 547 people have been evacuated so far, according to data from the state disaster management authorities. Around 104 boats have also been damaged along with 57 nets, the authorities said.The cyclone comes as a double-whammy to Karnataka which continues to reel under the grip of the Covid-19 pandemic that has now shown signs of a surge in rural areas including those impacted by the cyclone. The cyclone has thrown life out of gear in these districts and has impacted Covid-19 appropriate behaviour, according to multiple people aware of the developments.As per the meteorological department, Karnataka’s coastal districts are likely to get similar weather for the next two days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/9-crew-members-stranded-at-sea-off-karnataka-coast-rescued-101621250652042.html
17-05-2021||Jaipur||Jaipur engineer, worried about critically-ill Covid +ve father, dies by suicide||A 30-year-old man worried about his father who was admitted to hospital for Covid-19 died by suicide on Monday. The man, an engineer who had recently shifted from Gurugram, had recovered from coronavirus disease earlier this month but his father tested positive soon after and is in a critical condition, a Jaipur police officer said.“His father is in a critical condition and undergoing treatment at a hospital with no improvement in his health. He was scheduled to be transferred to another hospital,” said Nemi Chand, station house officer of Jawahar Circle police station. Chand said the man was worried about his father’s health.Police said the man told his mother early on Monday morning that he was stepping out to buy some medicines. He, however, climbed up the stairs and is suspected to have jumped from the fourth floor of the apartment building.Police said neighbours heard a loud noise and found him in a pool of blood. An ambulance took him to the hospital where he later died of the injuries.“We spoke to his family and friends and they said he was extremely apprehensive about his father who showed no signs of recovery. He was also worried about transferring him to a different hospital. All this took a major toll on his mental health,” a second police officer said.Police have retrieved a video of Jain falling from the terrace of the building.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/jaipur-engineer-worried-about-critically-ill-covid-ve-father-dies-by-suicide-101621249391805.html
17-05-2021||Chandigarh||Injured Haryana cops get aid, farmers back at protest site||A day after 20 policemen, including a DSP and five women cops, were injured while preventing farmers from marching towards the venue where Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar was scheduled to inaugurate a Covid hospital in Hisar, Haryana DGP Manoj Yadava announced ₹5,000 each for the treatment of the police personnel. “I appreciate the patience and bravery displayed by police personnel in confronting the unruly mob and saving the newly inaugurated Sanjeevni Covid Hospital at Hisar from damage. Each of the injured police personnel will be given ₹5,000 for their diet and medical needs,” the DGP tweeted. Also read: Bleeding, clotting from AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine minuscule in India: ReportA spokesman for the Hisar police said that only two of the 20 injured police personnel are hospitalised as the rest have been discharged after treatment. “All of them are stable,” he said. A committee of 11 farm leaders met Hisar district officials at the IG’s office on Sunday evening and assured the administration that the farmers will not break the law in future. A total of 85 farmers were released after the meeting and no FIR was registered against them, the spokesman said. However, soon after their released, the farmers gathered at Ramayana toll plaza to protest against the Centre’s farm laws. Women and children also joined them despite the ban on gatherings during the Covid-19 pandemic. Ministers back police action, Oppn condemn lathicharge Many ministers in the BJP-JJP government condemned the violence and backed the police action. Haryana agriculture minister JP Dalal said on Twitter, “Thank God, four new hospitals have been inaugurated to defeat Covid. Our brave police personnel received injuries while protecting the hospitals. Their efforts will not go in vain.” State education minister Kanwar Pal Gurjar said, “I thank chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar for inaugurating the 500-bed hospital at Hisar and appreciate the cops ,who despite getting injured protected the hospital.” Opposition leaders of the Congress and the INLD criticised the police action with former chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda saying, “The farmers are fighting the virus and the government’s apathy. The government should accept the farmers’ demands after holding talks with them instead of resorting to lathicharge and provoking them.” INLD general secretary Abhay Singh Chautala said the Haryana chief minister acted like a coward in Hisar. “It’s time to impose President’s rule in the state by taking charge from the BJP-JJP government. Our party stands in solidarity with farmers,” he said. Farmers warned of miscreants joining stir BKU leader Gurnam Singh Charuni thanked the farmers for blocking all national and state highways in protest against the Hisar incident. “I appeal to farmers to continue the protest peacefully and be aware of miscreants who have been trying to defame the agitation. We have identified two people who used aggressive language in Hisar on Sunday to provoke farmers for a confrontation,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/injured-haryana-cops-get-aid-farmers-back-at-protest-site-101621249390495.html
17-05-2021||Patna||Suspected Covid-19 victim’s body carried on garbage cart in Bihar, probe ordered||A middle-aged man, who died at his rented house at Jalalpur locality of Bihar’s Nalanda district on May 13, was taken to the burial ground in a pushcart as the municipality’s ambulance failed to turn up on Friday.The victim’s maternal uncle Ramavtar Prasad said his nephew Manoj Kumar alias Guddu complained of uneasiness and was admitted to the Sadar hospital in Biharsharif on May 11. Two days later, he was discharged and brought home, where he eventually died a few hours later. Earlier in the day before his discharge from the hospital, Manoj Kumar’s sample was collected to check for Covid-19 infection. The test results had not arrived by the time of his passing.Given the possibility that the deceased could be Covid infected, an ambulance was called to take him to the burial ground but it didn’t turn up even after 18 hours of his death, said Prasad.Later, the victim’s kin contacted local ward councillor Sushil Kumar alias Mitthu, who allegedly demanded ₹22,000 for cremating the body. The family said they agreed to pay him ₹16,500, following which, two men wearing personal protective equipment (PPE) kits arrived with a garbage pushcart and carried the body to the burial ground. A video of the body being carried in the municipality garbage cart went viral on social media.Following the incident, a committee of local residents requested Nalanda district magistrate (DM) Yogendra Prasad for a probe alleging misconduct by the ward councillor. They wanted to know why a municipal vehicle was not provided for carrying the body and why a municipal committee, formed to conduct the last rites of unclaimed bodies, did not intervene in the situation.Biharsharif municipal commissioner Anshul Agarwal said, “We are investigating why a push cart was used to carry the body.”Some healthcare workers claimed a shortage of ambulances was the reason for the emergency vehicle’s non-availability, while the civil hospital authorities said ambulances were used only either to bring patients to hospital or send bodies to crematoriums from hospitals.However, Nalanda civil surgeon Dr Sunil Kumar seemed to disagree with the shortage of ambulance theory. “We have more than 200 vehicles to take bodies to the crematorium. A proper investigation will be done into the matter and action will be taken against those who are involved in the incident,” said Kumar.Several incidents of bodies being carried on bicycles or pushcarts have been reported from rural areas of the state recently.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/suspected-covid-19-victim-s-body-carried-on-garbage-cart-in-bihar-probe-ordered-101621248310370.html
17-05-2021||Pune||Monday Musings: Ajit Pawar’s social media conundrum is all about the timing||Last week when Maharashtra government decided to appoint a private agency to handle the social media accounts of deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, it drew sharp criticism from all the quarters. One reason for criticism was the government was willing to pay ₹6 crores amid raging Covid crisis when state is grappling with paucity of funds. The ₹6 crores was for a year -2021-22. Pawar later ordered he does not need a separate agency though debate continued to rage on. Was it for the first time government was appointing outside agency to operate social media accounts? Various institutions within the government - be it Police or municipal corporations or ministers - have hired services of private agencies to handle their social media accounts. The success recipe for social media these days is more important than the actual work done by respective entities. It helps politicians, police and other government agencies to create an image that is appreciated by an outside world. At the same time, a lot of it is also useful to common citizens. In one of his interviews in January 2020, K Vekatesham, former police commissioner, Pune, said, “After the city police became active on social media, people’s engagement with police had increased, while at the same time their faith in the law enforcement agency also improved.” This was after the city police roped in a private agency to operate its Twitter, and other social media accounts, in 2019. The digitally-savvy Pune police started using pop culture and millennial slang to speak to youngsters. From several witty responses, to polite yet firm messages, netizens began enjoying the quick and smart replies on the Pune police Twitter handle that had shut out some “extra smart” accounts, asking about drugs or the cell numbers of women. The active social media account helped Pune police carve out a better image for its Pune unit. To handle the accounts, Sunchika Pandey, a Mumbai- based journalist-turned-social media consultant helped the Pune police. Pandey had previously helped the Mumbai police stay ahead in the social media game. “My agency’s job is to only guide them on strengths and weaknesses of social media, which can make or mar anyone’s image,” Pandey had said in her interview to Hindustan Times in 2020, (Meet the Meme Queen who radicalised Pune police’s social media game... for the better). For many agencies, Pandey and her media firm have been game changers. While Pandey did not share specific details, agencies in Pune and Mumbai hiring her services were paying crores of rupees. So why did Ajit Pawar invite criticism that forced him to immediately ask the government not to go ahead with his proposal to hire a specialist agency to handle his social media account? There are many ministers and politicians who have roped in private agencies to do the same. In Pawar’s case, it was more due to timing and the payment, which in previous instances did was not made public. The proposal was to spend ₹6 crore on the deputy chief minister’s social media accounts, even though the government has a Directorate General of Information and Public Relations (DGIPR) department.The department has a staff strength of 1,200 across Maharashtra with an annual budget of ₹150 crore. If the DGIPR, as claimed in the same order issued to hire a private agency for Pawar’s account, lacks professional and technical competence to handle social media, the government could spend the same money that it was to allocate for Pawar to train the staff. That will be of use to all the ministers, including the chief minister, and to various departments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/monday-musings-ajit-pawar-s-social-media-conundrum-is-all-about-the-timing-101621248130686.html
17-05-2021||Jaipur||North Western Railway cancels 10 more train services due to lockdown||The North Western Railway on Monday cancelled 10 more trains due to the lockdown triggered by the coronavirus pandemic.According to a North Western Railway spokesperson, the 10 train services were cancelled due to a low passenger load.These include the Jodhpur-Delhi Sarai Rohilla special train, the Jodhpur-Indore special train, the Jodhpur-Barmer special train, the Jodhpur-Bilada special train and the Sriganganagar-Ambala special train, which will remain cancelled from May 19 until further orders.Apart from this, the number of trips of four trains has been reduced. The Ajmer-Amritsar special train will now operate only on Wednesday, instead of two days a week, from May 19 till further orders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/north-western-railway-cancels-10-more-train-services-due-to-lockdown-101621244108831.html
17-05-2021||Delhi||Covid second wave: Sex workers get help from Good Samaritans||Even before they could recover from the impact of last year’s lockdown, the second wave of Covid and the subsequent lockdown have dealt another blow to most of the sex workers in the Capital; who were already struggling to make ends meet. In the narrow bylanes of Garston Bastion (GB) Road, a team of volunteers comprising students and young professionals can be found, distributing food and dry ration to families of over 800 sex workers! “Since we are aware of the problems faced by the women in the area, we collected funds and even conducted a food drive to distribute the packets that contain ration (for 15 days), including dal, rice, flour, basic spices as well as soaps and sanitisers,” says Shankar Singh, founder of the NGO, Vrikshit Foundation. He adds that the group will soon return with reusable sanitary napkins for the women in the area. “For sex workers, getting help from authorities is a challenge since they do not have ration cards... Around 2,000 plus sex workers reside in the 100 brothels who have lost their only means of livelihood because of the lockdown,” explains Awadhesh Yadav, founder of Society Participatory Integrated Development (SPID), an NGO working in the Capital for women and child development. Along with food, the society is focussing on pregnant and lactating mothers, who are provided with milk for their kids.“Our goal is to prevent the second generation from prostitution. At our 24-hour shelter in GB road area, we take care of kids of sex workers, which includes their boarding, food and education. We are also distributing ration to the hundreds of families here, and families of the Perna tribe, residing in Najafgarh,” says Yadav, adding, “Many women came to us asking for help during the second wave, and we are trying our best to help everyone, and raise awareness about their plight.” Efforts are being made by some, who are providing emotional support, literacy and life skills to women engaged in prostitution. “During the pandemic, under our HeARTshala initiative, we have taught women how to stitch cotton masks and bags, to provide them an alternate source of livelihood. In the second wave, these women have been given machines so that they can work at home, since we do not want to risk calling them to the centres,” says Aarzoo Jolly, program lead at Kat-Katha, adding, “We are also teaching them about finance and entrepreneurship through online classes, to allow them to have an alternate source of livelihood.” Jolly says that the organisation is also taking care of around 30 children of the sex workers, who are being taught via online classes at the moment. Author tweets @bhagat_mallikaFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covid-second-wave-sex-workers-get-help-from-good-samaritans-101621243992051.html
17-05-2021||Kolkata||West Bengal governor urges Mamata Banerjee to follow ‘constitutional norms’ as chaos erupts over arrest of TMC leaders||West Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar took to Twitter on Monday to express alarm and urge the state’s chief minister Mamata Banerjee to follow constitutional norms and rule of law as chaos descended in Kolkata over the arrest of 4 Trinamool Congress party members by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) in the 2016 Narada sting operation case.“Concerned at alarming situation. Call upon @MamataOfficial to follow constitutional norms and rule of law,” Dhankar tweetedConcerned at alarming situation. Call upon @MamataOfficial to follow constitutional norms & rule of law. Police @WBPolice @KolkataPolice @HomeBengal must take all steps to maintain law & order. Sad- situation is being allowed to drift with no tangible action by authorities.CBI arrested Subrata Mukherjee, Firhad Hakim, Madan Mitra, and Sovan Chatterjee on Monday, in connection with the 2016 Narada sting operation case. Mamata Banerjee rushed to CBI’s office at Nizam Palace where the four were held and demanded she be arrested too, a source within TMC told HT. TMC workers and supporters took to the streets to protest the arrests. Reports emerged of shoes, bricks, and bottles being hurled at central forces stationed at Nizam Palace.Dhankar also asked West Bengal Police, Kolkata Police, and the state home department to take necessary steps to maintain law and order.“Police @WBPolice @KolkataPolice @HomeBengal must take all steps to maintain law & order. Sad situation is being allowed to drift with no tangible action by authorities,” he added.The Narada sting case dates back to 2016 and featured many high-profile TMC leaders receiving money on camera for fictitious companies. Besides those arrested, leader of opposition in the legislative assembly Suvendu Adhikari and BJP leader Mukul Roy were also recorded by Mathew Samuel, the man behind the sting operation.Both Hakim and Mukherjee are sitting ministers in Banerjee’s cabinet, Mitra, a member of the legislative assembly, has been arrested before for his alleged role in the Sharada scandal, Chatterjee joined BJP but quit on being denied a party ticket for the recently concluded assembly elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/west-bengal-governor-urges-mamata-banerjee-to-follow-constitutional-norms-as-chaos-erupts-over-arrest-of-tmc-leaders-101621243149644.html
17-05-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan woman kills daughter with lover’s help; both arrested||Rajasthan Police on Monday arrested a woman and her lover for allegedly killing the woman’s four years old daughter and dumping her body in Alwar’s Sariska forest.The woman’s husband, Sumit Yadav, a resident of Borkhera village in Kota district, reported his 25-years old wife Teena Yadav and four years old daughter Nandini missing on December 16, 2020. Nearly five months later on May 13, the mother was traced to Udawala village in Jaipur district, where she was living with her 45-years old partner Prahlad Sahay.Kota rural circle officer, Vijay Shankar Sharma said Teena initially tried to throw the police off the track by claiming Nandini was with her grandparents but later confessed to have killed her with Sahay’s help.Sharma said Teena told police that she had fled from her village in Kota district on November 11 last year, and since then, she was living with Prahlad at his house in Udawala village, where Nandini was injured a month later on December 9, while playing with Prahlad.Teena said they took her to a doctor in Shahpura but he referred her to Jaipur for treatment. Since Prahlad was not interested in spending money on Nandini’s treatment, they choked her to death using a shawl, the police officer said. Later, the duo dumped her body in Sariska forests in Alwar.After arresting Teena and Prahlad for murder, a Kota police team has left for Alwar to recover Nandini’s body.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-woman-kills-daughter-with-lover-s-help-both-arrested-101621242970152.html
17-05-2021||Delhi||Hoarding case: Delhi HC dissatisfied with police clean chit to BV Srinivas, others||The Delhi high court on Monday expressed dissatisfaction with the police for giving clean chit to nine politicians, including Indian Youth Congress (IYC) president BV Srinivas, in connection with the alleged oxygen cylinder hoarding case.“We are not accepting this position. We mean business. The pandemic is now. This is completely unacceptable. Political parties cannot make this pandemic a selling point. How could they purchase it without prescription?Also Read | Clean chit to BV Srinivas, 8 others in hoarding case“You have to act with responsibility. They have no business to buy medicines and hoarding them to earn some goodwill. Now it seems that you are not interested in getting out the truth,” a bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh said.“Just because some political figures are involved, this is no reason to not investigate. Your force should stand up, you have a duty towards the people. You have to understand this. People all over are suffering,” Justice Vipin Sanghi said, pulling up the Delhi Police, asking if the force realises just how many people have died due to lack of medicines, which, allegedly, were being hoarded by some people.Justice Sanghi further said, “Medicines were being hoarded by a certain doctor. Since it is being projected that the medicines are held for public charity, we expect that as responsible citizens, people will not procure these medicines for political gains.”Also Read | PIL on hoarding: Delhi Police question Youth Cong chief BV SrinivasThe court further said that it expects the medicines to be surrendered to the Director General of Health Services (DGHS) for poor and needy public. It further directed the Delhi Police to conduct a “proper investigation” in the matter and do the needful if a case is made out to register an First information Report (FIR).“We want a complete status report. We would expect that whatever stocks are being held by the political parties is surrendered to the Directorate of Health Services (DGHS) as good samaritans. In case they want to do public good that would be the best way it can be done. We find it difficult prima facie to believe…..We are appealing in good sense that this should not go and they should go and surrender it with the DGHS,” the bench said.The observations and directions come while perusing the Delhi police’s status report in the high court where nine politicians including Srinivas, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP Gautam Gambhir and party leader Harish Khurana, as well Dilip Pandey of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) for alleged hoarding of oxygen cylinders, as well as other essential medicines, were given clean chit by the probe agency.The police in their report had said that they were actually helping people without charging money and no one was defrauded.The case pertains to questioning by the police of nine people for alleged hoarding of oxygen cylinders, as well as other essential medicines, at a time when several hospitals in the Capital reported a shortage of liquid medical oxygen (LMO) resulting in several cases in which people infected with the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) lost their lives. While the oxygen cylinders were provided to those in need, it was alleged that this was done for “political gains.”However, it was the questioning of Srinivas which triggered a major political storm as he has been at the forefront of helping people with oxygen cylinders.The Delhi Police was investigating the case on the directions of the high court which directed it to do so after a petition was filed in the court seeking a probe into the matter.The high court will next hear the case on May 24, by when it has directed the Delhi Police to file a status report showing how medicines were procured in “such large numbers by a few persons.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/hoarding-case-delhi-hc-dissatisfied-with-police-clean-chit-to-bv-srinivas-others-101621238651478.html
17-05-2021||Kolkata||‘Arrest me’: Mamata Banerjee tells CBI after 4 held in Narada sting operation case||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee has asked the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) officials to arrest her as well, said Trinamool Congress (TMC) leader Anindya Raut, after four people, including three current TMC leaders and a former party leader, were arrested by the agency on Monday in connection with the Narada sting operation case.Also Read | Narada sting case: CBI arrests Bengal ministers Firhad Hakim, Subrata Mukherjee and 2 othersBanerjee, who also heads the TMC, arrived at the agency’s office at Nizam Palace in Kolkata, just minutes after the arrests of Firhad Hakim, Subrata Mukherjee and Madan Mitra, along with former TMC leader Sovan Chatterjee, who is also a former mayor of Kolkata. Among these, Hakim and Mukherjee are sitting ministers in the West Bengal government headed by Banerjee, Mitra is an MLA, while Chatterjee joined the opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in 2019, but resigned after being denied a ticket by the BJP from his traditional assembly constituency Behala east for the recently-held assembly elections in the eastern state.#WATCH | West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee arrived at the CBI office pic.twitter.com/eNvpSeu692On May 9, exactly a week after the TMC emerged victorious as the counting of votes for the assembly elections was held, West Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar gave the nod to prosecute the four accused in the case.Also Read | Narada sting operation: Governor allows CBI to prosecute 3 TMC MLAsReacting to the arrests, TMC spokesperson Kunal Ghosh called it “illegal” and “undemocratic.” Meanwhile, Biman Banerjee, TMC leader and speaker of the West Bengal assembly, said, “CBI didn’t inform us. If they’ve been arrested, it is illegal. The prior permission of the legislative assembly speaker is required but was not taken.”Also Read | Believe in judiciary, will get clean chit in Narada scam probe: Firhad HakimThe BJP, which has a government at the Centre to which the CBI reports, said it has nothing to do with the arrests. “We have nothing to say. The BJP has nothing to do with this,” said state BJP spokesperson Samik Bhattacharjee.Hakim, Mukherjee, Mitra and Chatterjee have been arrested under sections 120b of the IPC and sections 7 and 13(1)(a) 13(1)(b) of the Prevention of Corruption Act. They will be produced in a court later in the day.The case pertains to a series of videos uploaded by the Narada News portal in 2016, ahead of that year’s assembly elections. In the videos, several high-profile TMC leaders can be seen receiving money in exchange for favours to a fictitious company.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/arrest-me-mamata-banerjee-tells-cbi-after-4-held-in-narada-sting-operation-case-101621230338117.html
17-05-2021||Bangalore||Black fungus treatment facility launched at Bengaluru hospital||A facility to treat the post Covid complication Black Fungus has been launched at the Bouring Hospital here, said Health and Medical Education Minister K Sudhakar.Facility for the treatment of the disease shall be launched in other districts as well, said Sudhakar adding that a proposal to provide the treatment free of cost shall be discussed with the Chief Minister.He further stated that Black Fungus is likely to occur among Covid patients with low immunity and steroid overdose or diabetes,"The disease starts from the nose damages eyes sight, leading to loss of vision in some cases. If not treated properly, the disease can cause death," he added.Speaking to reporters here, Sudhakar said, "On consultation with ophthalmologists in Maharashtra (where Black Fungus patients are already being treated) the best treatment is being launched at Boring Hospital from Monday. The treatment shall also be available across other districts and medical colleges.""Black fungus treatment should be given for seven consecutive weeks, which costs around ₹2 to 3 lakhs. It will be discussed with the chief minister to provide the treatment free of charge. The central government would supply the amphotericin drug, which has been requested for a dose of ₹20,000," he said.The minister informed that a panel of four specialists, including ophthalmologists, is also being constituted by the state government to advise on the treatment of Blck Fungus."A panel of four specialists, including ophthalmologists, is being formed. This committee will advise on what treatment should be done," said Sudhakar.The minister stated that no one should take a steroid-free drug without consulting a doctor and urged the doctors to not give people immunosuppressive drugs."Positivity rates have not decreased in districts other than Bengaluru, he added.Meanwhile, according to health officials, four Black Fungus cases were reported from Bagalkote and Vijayapura. Among the three cases reported in Bagalkote, one person is being treated at Bilagi healthcare center in Bagalkote and the other two are receiving treatment in private hospitals in Hyderabad and Bengaluru.Another case was reported in Vijayapura district from Bijapur Lingayat District Educational Association (B.L.D.E.A.) medical college and hospital, said doctors at the hospital who confirmed that the patient is stable and responding to the treatment.As per the Union Health Ministry, Mucormycosis or black fungus is a complication caused by fungal infection. People catch mucormycosis by coming in contact with the fungal spores in the environment. It can also develop on the skin after the fungus enters the skin through a cut, scrape, burn, or other type of skin trauma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/black-fungus-treatment-facility-launched-at-bengaluru-hospital-101621231489196.html
17-05-2021||Kolkata||Bengali poet Joy Goswami tests positive for Covid-19||Renowned Bengali poet Joy Goswami, who tested positive for Covid-19, has been admitted to a hospital here, a health department official said.The 66-year-old poet was taken to Beleghata ID and BG Hospital on Sunday night as he was suffering from high fever, he said."Goswami was first admitted to a general ward and later shifted to the Covid section after he tested positive for the infection. He is undergoing treatment and his condition is stable now," the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bengali-poet-joy-goswami-tests-positive-for-covid19-101621231513161.html
17-05-2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh man hands out free firewood to prevent dumping of bodies in Ganga||50-years old Sanjay Rai, a native of Sherpur village in Uttar Pradesh’s Ghazipur district, has set up firewood depots at the cremation grounds on the bank of river Ganga to help poor people perform the last rites of their kin, instead of dumping the bodies in the river. Dozens of bodies of suspected Covid-19 patients have washed up on the banks of river Ganga in Ghazipur over the past few days, triggering concerns over possible river water contamination leading to further spread of the contagion.Rai, who runs a business in Gujarat, was in his village in Ghazipur when incidents of villagers dumping bodies in Ganga surfaced with disturbing videos and images getting flashed across media platforms.“People from various parts of the country called me to know the facts. The dumping of bodies as well as floating corpses in the river seemed disgraceful,” Rai said.He discussed the issue with his associates and family members and decided to launch a firewood bank on the nine cremation ‘ghats’ located near the river. “We informed the district administration about the plan and... transported firewood procured from the timber merchants from various parts of the districts. On May 14, the firewood banks were launched near the nine cremation grounds,” Rai said.The poor people are being given wood for the last rites from the bank for free and volunteers are busy maintaining the stock at all the nine depots. “Along with assisting the needy, we are also working to protect the Ganga from pollution,” Rai said.On an average, ₹5,000 is spent on firewood for a single pyre. Rai has so far spent close to ₹3 lakh to cremate 60 bodies. He has been helped by family and friends in generating resources for the noble cause.The district administration says it has started an awareness campaign while the Provincial Armed Constabulary (PAC) is conducting patrols to dissuade villagers from dumping the bodies in the river. The newly-elected gram pradhans have been asked to reach out to district administration for assistance for the last rites if needed. They say Rai’s initiative has also made a difference.Ghazipur district magistrate Mangala Prasad Singh acknowledged Rai’s contribution in solving the problem. “His organization is also creating awareness among the villagers urging them not to dump the dead bodies in the river,” Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uttar-pradesh-man-hands-out-free-firewood-to-prevent-dumping-of-bodies-in-ganga-101621230610134.html
17-05-2021||Mumbai||Cyclone Tauktae: Mumbai receives intense spells of rain with gusty winds||Mumbai began receiving intense spells of rain around 7am on Monday, with gusty winds between 75 to 85kmph, under the influence of Cyclone Tauktae which is currently passing by the city’s latitude at a distance of about 150kms from the coast. Intense rains are likely to continue till 2pm, after which they will begin to taper off, officials with the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said.Cyclone Tauktae -- now categorised as an extremely severe cyclone by IMD -- is very likely to move north-northwestwards and reach Gujarat coast in the evening and cross Gujarat coast between Porbandar and Mahuva (Bhavnagar) around May 18 early morning.As per IMD data, Mumbai received 12mm rain (as of 8.30am on Monday) in Santacruz and 17mm rain at the IMD’s observatory in Colaba, which received the maximum amount of rain out of Mumbai’s 16 monitoring locations for the same.Also Watch | Cyclone Tauktae ‘extremely severe’; expected to hit Gujarat coast tonight“The rain will intensity further before the morning is up. Cloudy conditions will remain for two to three days,” said an official with the IMD’s forecasting centre in Mumbai. Meanwhile, Ratnagiri district recorded extremely heavy rainfall of 364mm on Monday morning, while Kolhapur saw 40mm of rain and Satara saw 36mm of rain.The weather system will also bring some respite from the summer heat, with maximum daytime temperature expected to fall to at least 33 degrees Celsius (°C), as per IMD’s seven-day forecast for Mumbai. The minimum morning temperature fell to 24°C in the morning (which is down from 26°C on Sunday, and is two degrees below the normal).The storm prompted a range of precautionary measures by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation which cautioned people to “stay at home and enjoy the weather,” on Twitter, while also closing the Bandra-Worli Sea Link to traffic until the weather improves. Mumbai airport has also been shut till 2pm.Three teams of the National Disaster Response Force have also been stationed in the western suburbs of Mumbai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cyclone-tauktae-strong-rains-winds-lash-mumbai-101621230070205.html
17-05-2021||Patna||Foreign monasteries, charities in Bodh Gaya help locals fight against Covid-19||Monasteries run by foreign countries at Bodh Gaya in Bihar and some foreign charity organisations are helping the residents of the heritage city and the nearby villages during the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic and the resultant lockdown in the state, said several people aware of the developments. Bodh Gaya has Buddhist monasteries run by over four dozen countries.While most of them are distributing cooked food and food grains among the poor, some Vietnamese nationals have sent oxygen concentrators to help Covid-19 patients in the region battle the shortage of the life-saving gas.Suresh Kumar, the Bodh Gaya Hotel Association president, said one Nghiem Thanh Thuy, a leader of 9 Huong Charity Group in Ho Chi Minh City in Vietnam, has sent five oxygen concentrators for hospitals in Bodh Gaya.“Today it was handed over to Jivak Hospital, a local private hospital at Bodh Gaya to save lives of serious Covid patients. Nghiem was... worried about the people at Bodh Gaya and the villages around it and so asked volunteers and businessmen to donate funds to help people here. And today we have got five oxygen concentrators,” Kumar said. He added that it was great to see that foreign visitors to Bodh Gaya are ready to serve people with humanitarian work.Dinu Kumar, a tourist guide at Bodh Gaya who is now working with the Thien Tam Charity group from Vietnam, said the group helped people in over 50 villages around Bodh Gaya in the last few weeks during the lockdown.“People have been dying not only because of the disease, but hunger is also a big problem. There’s no work and no earnings. I am a tourist guide who has been jobless due to Covid for the last several weeks. It’s this charity work which has helped me and my family survive,” Dinu Kumar said.Kumar claims the group has already provided over 50 oxygen cylinders to the Covid patients in this area.Rakesh Kumar, the president of Bodh Gaya tourist guide association, said many including the Thai and Bhutan monasteries were doing charity works these days. “Besides, some organisations which are supported by the people from countries like Australia, the US, the UK, Germany and France are also helping people out during Covid,” Kumar said.Bihar reported 89 more Covid-19 deaths on Sunday, though its active caseload and the number of fresh cases reported daily continued to decline along with a drop in the positivity ratio. According to the health department, the death toll has now reached 3,832, an increase of more than 1,000 since the beginning of this month when the state went under a lockdown on May 5 to contain the raging second wave of the pandemic. The lockdown has been extended till May 25. The total number of cases Covid cases in the state stands at 6.51 lakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/foreign-monasteries-charities-in-bodh-gaya-help-locals-fight-against-covid19-101621227909722.html
17-05-2021||Kolkata||Narada sting case: CBI arrests Bengal ministers Firhad Hakim, Subrata Mukherjee and 2 others||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Monday arrested two West Bengal ministers - Subrata Mukherjee and Firhad Hakim - an MLA of the ruling Trinamool Congress Madan Mitra and former Kolkata mayor Souvan Chatterjee in connection with the Narada sting operation case. CBI officials visited their house on Monday morning and brought the leaders for questioning at their office in Kolkata's Nizam Palace.All four leaders will be produced in the court later in the day. They have been arrested under sections 120b of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and sections 7 and 13(1)(a) 13(1)(b) of the Prevention of Corruption Act."The CBI did not intimate us (about the arrests). If they have been arrested, it is illegal. The prior permission of the speaker of the legislative assembly is required for it, but it was not taken. This is undemocratic," said West Bengal assembly speaker Biman Banerjee.This comes after West Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar last week gave permission to the CBI to prosecute them.Chatterjee was with the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC), but joined the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in 2019. He quit the BJP too after being denied ticket in the assembly polls from his traditional assembly seat of Behala East.Mitra, meanwhile, won the from the Kamarhati seat in West Bengal in the recently-concluded assembly election."We condemn this. This is a vindictive attitude," said Kunal Ghosh, spokesperson of the TMC.The BJP said it has nothing to do with the arrests. "We have nothing to say. BJP has nothing to do with this," said party spokesperson Samik Bhattacharjee.The case pertains to a controversy that erupted ahead of the 2016 assembly elections after Narada News portal uploaded a series of videos purportedly showing a number of high-profile TMC leaders receiving money in exchange for favours to a fictitious company.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/cbi-questions-west-bengal-ministers-in-narada-sting-case-arrest-likely-101621226939574.html
17-05-2021||Mumbai||Cyclone Tauktae: Mumbai airport to be shut for 3 hours today, Bandra-Worli link closed||Operations at Mumbai's Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport will be closed for three hours on Monday due to Cyclone Tauktae, an airport spokesperson has said."Due to cyclone alert, operations at Mumbai Airport need to be closed from 1100 hours local time to 1400 hours local time of 17th May, 2021," the spokesperson said.Also Read | Tauktae intensifies into extremely severe cyclonic storm, likely to reach Gujarat this evening: 10 pointsAccording to officials aware of developments, a SpiceJet flight on its way to Mumbai from Chennai, which was scheduled to land at 8:15am, had to be diverted to Surat in the neighbouring state of Gujarat.Maharashtra and Gujarat are among several states and Union territories where an alert has been declared due to the impending cyclone. In Gujarat, Tauktae is expected to make a landfall later in the day on Monday, or in the early morning hours of Tuesday. The threat of the cyclone has also led to the vaccination drive against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Mumbai, Maharashtra’s capital city, to be suspended for a day.Also Read | No Covid-19 vaccination drive in Mumbai on Monday due to Cyclone TauktaeAdditionally, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), Mumbai’s civic body, announced that the key Bandra-Worli sea link will be closed for commuters till further updates.Cyclone Tauktae, the first cyclone to hit India this year, has intensified into an "extremely severe cyclonic storm" (ESCS), the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) said in an update on Monday morning. Tauktae, IMD said, will have a wind speed of 180-190 kmph, gusting to 210 kmph.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-airport-to-be-shut-for-3-hours-today-due-to-cyclone-takutae-spokesperson-101621225889364.html
17-05-2021||Patna||Monsoon likely in Bihar by June 15, Patna readies to deal with water logging||Monsoon is likely to arrive in Bihar on time by June 15 but hot and humid conditions will prevail till then as temperatures rise across the state, the Patna meteorological centre has predicted.“Due to conducive meteorological mechanisms, the monsoon is likely to arrive in Bihar on June 15, the normal date of commencement of rainy season in the state. Southwest monsoon usually enters Bihar through north-eastern districts and covers the entire state in two to three days,” said SK Patel, an official at Patna weather centre. He added that the forecast of monsoon reaching Kerala by May 31 was favourable for timely onset of the season in other states as well.Meanwhile, the Patna Municipal Corporation (PMC) has sped up work to de-silt drains to deal with water logging incidents in the rainy season. The civic body said it has identified areas prone to water logging and drainage cleaning is going on in full swing there.“We are likely to complete the sewage and drainage cleaning work by May 25. Despite Covid-19 fear, our sanitisation team has been carrying out unclogging work since February 15. We are also preparing to stock an adequate amount of bleaching and Malathion for pre-monsoon fogging,” PMC public relations officer Harshita said.She added that quick response teams will be deployed in all six circles to respond to any monsoon-related distress calls and it will start functioning from June 10.On Sunday, Buxar recorded the maximum temperature of 41.2°C; Patna recorded a maximum temperature of 40.2 °C, Gaya 40.6°C and Bhagalpur 37.5°C. The minimum temperatures in the state hovered around 25°C to 28°C, said the weather department.Amit Sinha, an official at the Patna meteorological centre, said the maximum temperature across the state remained up to 3°C higher than corresponding normal. “The meteorological conditions indicate hot and dry weather till May 19 followed by a brief spell of rain. The state is unlikely to experience any effect of the Tauktae cyclone,” Sinha added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/monsoon-likely-in-bihar-by-june-15-patna-readies-to-deal-with-water-logging-101621225389962.html
17-05-2021||Delhi||Partly cloudy sky in Delhi today; there may be thunder, lightning||Delhi is likely to see a partly cloudy sky on Monday as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast with a possibility of thunder and lightning. The minimum temperature on Monday is likely to be 24 degrees Celsius (°C) while the maximum temperature is predicted to reach 38°C. The minimum temperature on Sunday was 21.7°C – five degrees below normal and the maximum temperature was 39.6°C– one degree below normal. Also Read | 5th phase of lockdown begins in Delhi as positivity rate down to 10.4%Meanwhile, Delhi’s air quality remained in the moderate category on Monday morning. Data from Central Pollution Control Board showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 7am stood at 157. On Sunday, the average 24-hour AQI had been 166, which is in the higher end of the moderate category. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered good, 51 and 100 satisfactory, 101 and 200 moderate, 201 and 300 poor, 301 and 400 very poor, and 401 and 500 severe. On Sunday, the Union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar) said, “The overall Delhi air quality is in the moderate category as forecasted. Surface winds are north-easterly and moderate. A slight decrease in wind speed and ventilation are forecasted. Hence, AQI is forecasted to marginally deteriorate and stay in the high end of moderate for the next three days.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/partly-cloudy-sky-in-delhi-today-there-may-be-thunder-lightning-101621221969483.html
17-05-2021||Dehradun||Portals of Kedarnath temple open amid strict Covid-19 protocol||The portals of Kedarnath shrine were reopened on Monday amidst strict Covid-19 protocol. Arrangements were made for the devotees to have online 'darshan'. Uttarakhand chief minister Tirath Singh Rawat expressed happiness at the opening of the doors of Kedarnath Dham and wished for the well-being of the people."The Kedarnath shrine was reopened today at 5am with all the rituals. I pray to Baba Kedarnath to keep everyone healthy," tweeted Rawat.The portals of the four famous shrines - Kedarnath, Badrinath, Gangotri and Yamunotri - are opened every year between April and May after a six-month closure. The portals of Badrinath temple will reopen on 'Brahmamuhurta' at 4.15am on May 18.The Uttarakhand Department of Information and Public Relations (DIPR) said that the first Rudrabhishek Puja in Kedarnath Dham was done by Prime Minister Narendra Modi.#WATCH | Opening ceremony of portals of Kedarnath temple, Uttarakhand pic.twitter.com/qW3XiCjDjVAfter the worship, the doors of Lord Kedarnath Temple were opened. On this occasion, the shrine was decorated with 11 quintal flowers.The late opening of the temples for pilgrims, along with restrictions such as the mandatory negative RT-PCR test report, a daily cap on the number of devotees visiting the shrines besides compliance with mask wearing and social distancing norms, had severely impacted the visit of pilgrims.Meanwhile, the Chardham Yatra was temporarily suspended in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. The Department of Information and Public Relations (DIPR), Uttarakhand said that only rituals are being performed with no pilgrims allowed.Uttarakhand has recorded 79,379 active Covid-19 cases and 4,426 people have died due to the infection so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/portals-of-kedarnath-temple-open-amid-strict-covid-19-protocol-101621219609763.html
17-05-2021||Delhi||Flight ops at Delhi airport's Terminal 2 to be suspended from midnight||The flight operations at Delhi airport's Terminal 2 (T2) will be stopped from the midnight of May 17 (Monday), according to Delhi International Airport Limited (DIAL). The decision has been taken due to falling in passengers traffic amid the Covid-19 pandemic, an official said.DIAL said the move will help airlines and the airport in better management of their staff during the pandemic.All the operations will be shifted to Terminal 3 (T3), said DIAL, adding that the two airlines - GoAir and IndiGo - which operate from T2 have been asked to shift to T3.The Covid-19 pandemic has hit the aviation sector badly. There has been a significant drop in passenger traffic especially after the emergence of the second wave of the pandemic last month.Also Read: How Delhi airport handled Covid relief over 5 daysDuring the last few weeks, the number of domestic air passengers per day have come from more than 2.2 lakh to around 75,000, according to the civil aviation ministry's data. The airport used to handle around 1,500 flights per day, but the number has fallen to 325 flights a day.Similarly, international air traffic has also been affected by the second wave of the pandemic.Last month, DIAL said it is facing financial challenges and may seek financial help from the central government."The earning of the airports depends on the operations of the flights there. So if the airline companies are facing financial turbulence the airport cannot be immune to that. We were seeing a recovery post lockdown but with the second wave of Covid, we are stuck again," DIAL's Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Videh Kumar Jaipuriar had told news agency ANI.Last year, DIAL had announced salary reduction of its employees following the shut down of the airport and the salaries had been restored after nine months.Over 1,500 employees are working directly under DIAL at the Delhi airport.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/flight-operations-at-delhi-airport-s-terminal-2-to-be-shut-from-midnight-101621218811144.html
17-05-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai to face 10% cut in water supply from today||Mumbai will face water crisis for five days starting Monday due to a repair work the Pise Dam, which supplies water to the city. The announcement about disruption in water supply was made by the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) last week.The cut will be around 10 per cent, the BMC had said, adding it's an emergency repair work related to pneumatic valves on the dam."Emergency repair work of pneumatic valves on Pise Dam supplying water to BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) will be undertaken, due to which, 10% water will be cut in Mumbai's water supply from May 17 to 21," the civic body said in the statement.The BMC has asked the residents of Mumbai to "store water properly and use water sparingly during this water cut period and also to cooperate with the administration".The BMC supplies around 3,700 million litres to the city against its demand of around 4,200 million litres.The cut in water supply comes at a time when Maharashtra is gearing up for severe cyclonic storm Tauktae, which is on its way to Gujarat. Gale-force winds, heavy rainfall and high tidal waves swept the coastal belt of Kerala, Karnataka and Goa as the cyclone hurtled northwards towards Gujarat.India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted heavy to very heavy rains at isolated places in north Konkan, Mumbai, Thane and Palghar and extremely heavy rainfall in Raigad on Monday. In fact, the weather department has issued an orange alert for Mumbai.Three teams of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) stationed in the western suburbs of Mumbai have been put on alert. Teams of the Indian Navy are also kept on standby, officials said on Sunday.Five temporary shelters each are put up in 24 civic wards of Mumbai so that citizens can be shifted there if necessary, a BMC official was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-to-face-water-10-cut-in-water-supply-from-today-101621217991278.html
17-05-2021||Delhi||Covid-19: Fifth phase of lockdown begins in Delhi as positivity rate down to 10.4%||Delhi on Monday began the fifth phase of a complete lockdown, which was announced last month to curb the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The announcement that the lockdown is being extended was made by Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday during his visit to a Covid-19 health facility set up outside the government-run Guru Teg Bahadur (GTB) Hospital in the Capital.Also Read | Lockdown for 1 more week, says CM; Metro to stay shut“The lockdown is being extended till 5am next Monday,” Kejriwal announced while interacting with the media. The complete shutdown was initially announced by the chief minister on April 19, and came into effect at 10pm on the same night. The city was to exit the lockdown at 5am on April 26; however, the restrictions were subsequently extended till May 3, May 10 May 17, and, for now, till May 24.Last month’s lockdown announcement came on the back of a weekend curfew which was imposed in Delhi as the city-state began witnessing a sharp rise in its daily Covid-19 cases, as well as deaths per day due to the viral disease.Hours after Kejriwal announced that the lockdown is being extended, the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) tweeted that Metro services shall remain suspended “till further notice,” adding that “any change in services will be notified.” The Metro services were suspended during the fourth phase of the lockdown, on the instructions of CM Kejriwal.In the wake of extension of curfew in Delhi for the containment of Covid-19 by the Govt. of NCT of Delhi, the Delhi Metro services on all its Lines shall also remain suspended till further notice. Any change in services will be notified. pic.twitter.com/cML76L6pd5Later in the day on Sunday, the latest medical bulletin from the health department showed that Delhi registered 6,456 fresh infections from the preceding 24 hours, with a positivity rate of 10.40%. In the same period, 262 lives were lost to the disease, the bulletin showed, while 9,706 people were discharged after recovering. The cumulative infection tally stands at 1,393,867, including 1,309,578 recoveries, 62,783 active cases and 21,506 related deaths.Also Read | Covid-19 in Delhi: 10.4% test positive as rate continues to dipThis was for the third straight day that Delhi saw less than 10,000 cases and second straight day that there were less than 7,000 infections. On Friday and Saturday, the Capital’s Covid-19 tally rose by 8,506 and 6,430 cases respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covid19-fifth-phase-of-lockdown-begins-in-delhi-as-positivity-rate-down-to-104-101621215676088.html
17-05-2021||Mumbai||No Covid-19 vaccination drive in Mumbai on Monday due to Cyclone Tauktae||In view of the warning on Cyclone Tauktae, the Covid-19 vaccination drive in Mumbai will remain suspended for the third day on Monday, according to BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). The civic body's chief Iqbal Singh Chahal said the vaccination programme will now be implemented on Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday.The BMC had on Friday announced that there would be no vaccination on May 15 and 16 considering the India Meteorological Department's (IMD) cyclone warning. A BMC official had earlier said that the civic body has shifted 580 patients from Covid-19 care centres in the city as a precautionary measure in view of the warning that Cyclone Tauktae is likely to pass close to the city.According to the IMD, Cyclone Tauktae has intensified into a very severe cyclonic storm and is very likely to reach the Gujarat coast at around 2:30 am of May 18 and cross it between Porbandar and Mahuva in Bhavnagar district around the early morning hours.The weather department has issued an orange alert for Mumbai warning of very heavy rains at isolated places with strong winds on Monday as Cyclone Tauktae is likely to pass close from the Mumbai coast towards Gujarat.Three teams of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) stationed in the western suburbs of Mumbai have been put on alert. Teams of the Indian Navy have also been kept on standby.The Met department had earlier said that the cyclone could cause heavy to very heavy rains at isolated places in north Konkan, Mumbai, Thane and Palghar on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/no-covid-19-vaccination-drive-in-mumbai-on-monday-due-to-cyclone-tauktae-101621212558257.html
17-05-2021||Delhi||Demand for cancelling exams grows as students process grief||A 17-year-old who lost both his parents to Covid-19, another boy whose hospitalised mother does not know her husband has passed away; an 18-year-old who lost her mother two days ago, and a top performer who tested positive for the infection — these are just some of the students expected to write the CBSE Class 12 exams amid the fourth wave of the pandemic in the national capital.On April 14, the Centre cancelled the Class 10 exams and postponed the Class 12 tests, and said it will review the situation on June 1 before deciding on the fate of the exams. Students and teachers are concerned about the ramifications the exams may have, with just 15 days left for the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) to decide on the Class 12 exams. Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ is due to chair a virtual meeting with all state education secretaries to discuss the impact of the pandemic on education.However, with the country continuing to record over 350,000 new Covid-19 infections and nearly 4,000 deaths every day, stakeholders have questioned the feasibility of conducting exams in-person. Students have started social media campaigns demanding the cancellation of Class 12 exams amid the pandemic. A plea has been also filed in the Supreme Court asking for directions to the Centre, CBSE and the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examination (CISCE) to cancel the Class 12 examinations.Officials at several schools in Delhi said many of their students had seen loss at close quarters, and that it will be challenging for them to take tests in such a situation. For instance, at Amity International School in Saket, a Class 12 student lost both his parents to Covid-19 during the ongoing surge, while another student’s father died, while the mother continues to fight the infection in hospital.Psychologist Manveen Kaur, the school counsellor, said asking students to appear for exams at this moment will “push them beyond breaking point.”“We are talking about teenagers here. They need time, focus, and energy to heal. They don’t need to stress about their academics right now. Authorities need to realise that children in the cycle of grief and despair need to get over this uncertainty because prolonged exposure to it will lead to stress and behavioural changes... Children who have lost their parents a week or a month or even five months ago, cannot be expected to write their papers,” said Kaur.The situation is identical at schools run by the government.At The Indian School, a Class 12 student of commerce lost his mother to the infection a couple of days ago, officials said. Two siblings enrolled in classes 10 and 12 at Springdales School on Pusa Road also lost their parents to Covid-19 recently. At least two students of Class 12 of MM Public School in Pitampura have lost their fathers to Covid-19.Ameeta Wattal, principal of Springdales School, said, “Two siblings studying in class 10 and 12 in our school lost their parents to Covid recently. When their relatives from outside Delhi wanted to take the children to a different city, the Class 12 student’s first concern was — what about my boards?... We have to come out with some kind of decision on this soon,” she said.Several Class 12 students have themselves tested positive for Covid-19. For instance, Rajkiya Pratibha Vikas Vidyalaya (RPVV) in Surajmal Vihar had to stop all remedial and preparatory classes later last month when one of their top performers tested positive for the infection. School principal RP Singh said, “We held an online meeting with students and asked them not to worry about their exams and to focus on themselves and their families… The board can conduct exams by addressing the administrative aspects, but the way students and teachers have been hit emotionally in the last month cannot be addressed,” he said.Jyoti Arora, principal of Mount Abu Public School, said, “Conducting exams is just a part of the process. It will be followed by rigorous evaluation, after which results will be prepared. It will be equally challenging to do that at a time when several teachers have died across schools in Delhi, so many have tested positive, while several have had deaths in their families.”Several students echoed these views. Aman Sharma (17), a student of Class 12 at Modern School in Vasant Vihar, said at least four of his classmates lost their parents between April and May and the pressure of board exams has left them feeling abandoned. “Exams cannot get preference over the lives and health of students. CBSE should not make us wait till June for clarity and leave us feeling anxious when we all know that there is a possibility of a third wave as well. This is not a conducive environment for us to sit and study when the world around us is collapsing,” he said.Education experts suggested alternative evaluation methods.Renu Malaviya, associate professor at the department of education at Lady Irwin College who has been working on alternative assessment methods for students with disabilities, said, “Online assessments could be an option for those with access to the internet and an alternate mode can be developed for those who don’t have digital access. The assessment pattern could be a combination of a variety of objective-type questions, including short answers. The assessments could be continuous and comprehensive. Most higher education institutes are already conducting entrance tests and with Central Universities Common Entrance Test, Class 12 grades will not be the only deciding factor for admission to colleges and universities.”Educationist Meeta Sengupta said several universities across the world have dropped SATs and school marks as deciding factors for admissions amid the pandemic.“Colleges in India can also follow other options for admissions this year in case the exams don’t take place. For instance, they can carry out United States-style applications with a history of the last three or four years, marks, awards, special achievements, and a ‘statement of purpose’ (SoP). They can even ask for an essay or journal note instead of the SoP. These can be submitted by post,” she said.Despite several attempts, CBSE controller of exams Sanyam Bhardwaj did not respond to calls and texts requesting comment. The board in a statement on Saturday said “no decision has been taken regarding the Class 12 exams yet”.A senior official from the Union education ministry on Sunday said no decision has been taken so far even as the government is “closely monitoring” the situation. Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal “Nishank” will conduct a virtual meeting with all state education secretaries on Monday to discuss the impact of Covid-19 on education. “The matter of CBSE class 12 exams is likely to be discussed there,” the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/demand-for-cancelling-exams-grows-as-students-process-grief-101621205908574.html
17-05-2021||Gurugram||60k doses wasted in Gurugram since jabs drive kicked off||Around 60,000 doses of Covid-19 vaccines have been wasted in Gurugram district since the inoculation drive started, health department officials said on Sunday.Officials attributed the wastage in the initial days to vaccine hesitancy in people, higher dose capacity of the vials and glitches in the system.District immunisation officer Dr MP Singh said, “So far around 60,000 doses of vaccine have been wasted in the district, but there are different reasons for wastage. We have found that in the first phase, many healthcare and frontline workers got vaccinated but due to glitches in the system, the data could not be uploaded on the portal. Due to this, the wastage rate is high, but the on ground situation is different. Also, initially people were not so keen on taking the vaccine so if a vial was opened and not enough people were vaccinated within four hours, it led to wastage.”Officials said that initially (January-February), each vial of Covaxin had 20 doses, which led to wastage, as not many people could be vaccinated within the four hours’ time limit when the vaccine can be used. At present, the district has a wastage rate of over 5% (approximately), with 1.2% wastage rate for Covaxin and 1% for Covishield.While Covishield vials contained 10 doses each from the start, Covaxin vials too were brought down to this size later.For those who took the first dose of vaccine and whose records could not be uploaded on the portal, the district health department is now clearing the logs by cross-checking with the beneficiaries by checking pay slips (for those who availed private services) and records on government registers for others. “The wastage rate is reducing now as we have an idea of how many people would be coming for vaccination (18-44 age group) at each site, due to mandatory registration on the CoWIN portal. Also, because it is difficult to get the slots, people are not missing their vaccination dates. So now vials are getting over within an hour, thus reducing wastage,” added Dr Singh.As of now, 593,099 people have been vaccinated in Gurugram district. On Sunday, 4,212 were administered the first dose of vaccine, while 441 were given the second.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/60k-doses-wasted-in-gurugram-since-jabs-drive-kicked-off-101621205563979.html
17-05-2021||Delhi||Lockdown for 1 more week, says CM; Metro to stay shut||Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday said that the ongoing lockdown in Delhi has been extended till May 24 morning. It was earlier supposed to end at 5 am on Monday, May 17.On April 19, a weekend curfew in Delhi was turned into a full lockdown from the next day in the light of an alarming rise in Covid-19 cases in the capital which left the city’s health infrastructure creaking. Since then, this is the fourth time the lockdown has been extended.“The lockdown has been extended till 5 am next Monday,” the chief minister said during his visit to a Covid-19 health facility set up outside the government’s GTB hospital.For the past few days, Delhi has been witnessing a steady decline in Covid-19 infections. However, the positivity rate still remains well above 5% -- a level considered relatively safe by the World Health Organization (WHO).“The recovery rate is going up, and the positivity rate is going down. In the last 24 hours, around 6,500 new cases have been recorded in Delhi and the positivity rate has dropped to 10% -- down from 11% the previous day. We cannot let our guards down now,” Kejriwal said and added that he hoped the situation will get better in another week.Delhi recorded 6,456 new infections, Sunday’s health bulletin showed, on the back of 62,059 tests.The test positivity rate also continued to fall, dropping to 10.40% on Sunday, from 11.32% a day earlierThe Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) issued the official order regarding the lockdown extension around 12.30 pm.“The situation of Covid-19 in Delhi has again been reviewed and [it has been] observed that Covid-19 positive cases and positivity rate is still high and [the] bed occupancy (oxygen beds/ICU beds) in the dedicated Covid-19 government and private hospitals and nursing homes is also on higher side,” said the order explaining the rationale for extending the lockdown.Dr Lalit Kant, former head of the division of epidemiology and communicable diseases at the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), said: “Delhi is still facing a shortage of hospital beds, ICUs, ventilators. The government has to implement policies to ensure minimum interaction of people and make sure that there are no gatherings. So the lockdown is essential. We cannot let guards down at this point.”As on Sunday noon, 15,340 (66%) of 23,213 total oxygen beds in the city’s Covid-19 wards were occupied. Of the 6,415 total ICU beds, 5,728 (89%) were occupied, the government’s app on hospital beds showed.While no new restriction has been imposed this week, no existing restriction has been lifted too.General movement of people and economic activities are prohibited in the lockdown with exemptions for those engaged in essential services and the supply chain of essential goods. Metro services are suspended and public buses have been asked to cater only to essential service providers. When asked if Delhi metro service would resume, the chief minister said: “Restrictions will remain as it is this week.”Dr Jugal Kishore, head of the community medicines department in Delhi’s Safdarjung Hospital, said: “The overall Covid-19 curve is declining in Delhi. There is no doubt in that. This is the time to boost the vaccination drive. The government has to resolve the shortage issue at the earliest either by increasing production of vaccines in India or buying from other countries.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/lockdown-for-1-more-week-says-cm-metro-to-stay-shut-101621204508092.html
17-05-2021||Delhi||Covid-19 in Delhi: 10.4% test positive as rate continues to dip||The Covid-19 test positivity rate continued to wind downwards in the national capital, falling to 10.40% on Sunday, from 11.32% a day earlier, with chief minister Arvind Kejriwal signalling that the infection may be steadying in the city, even as he extended the ongoing lockdown by a week.Delhi recorded 6,456 new infections, Sunday’s health bulletin showed, on the back of 62,059 tests. The city has added an average of 10,043 new cases a day over the past seven days — the lowest in 33 days, since it added 9,299 cases in the seven days ending April 13.Sunday’s bulletin showed that 262 more people died of the infection in 24 hours. While this number is the lowest in 25 days, it must be noted that this number is still double the death count during the third wave of cases, when Delhi saw a one-day high of 131 deaths on November 18.All major parameters concerning the pandemic have seen a downward trend over the past week, indicating that the fourth wave of infections may be receding. The seven-day average test positivity rate for instance, has dropped from 25.27% as on May 9, to 14.61% on Sunday. Active cases too, have fallen from 86,232 a week ago to 62,783 on Sunday.To be sure, the test positivity rate in Delhi is still far higher than the 5% threshold recommended by health experts, including the World Health Organization, for an infection to be considered under control in a region.At its peak, Delhi recorded 28,395 cases in a day on April 20. And on April 22, the Capital recorded a positivity rate of more than 36%. Single-day deaths hit a high on May 3, when 448 people succumbed to the infection.Experts urged caution over the dip in the cases and stressed on boosting vaccination and starting preparations for any more potential waves in future.Dr Lalit Kant, former head of the division of epidemiology and communicable diseases at the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), said: “The case trajectory and positivity rate are going down in Delhi, which is a good sign. This is the time the government should scale up genome sequencing and integrate that with epidemiological data for advanced study...”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covid19-in-delhi-10-4-test-positive-as-rate-continues-to-dip-101621204161042.html
17-05-2021||Delhi||Navneet Kalra held in O2 concentrator case||Businessman Navneet Kalra who has been charged with hoarding oxygen concentrators and selling them at inflated prices was arrested late Sunday evening from a farmhouse in Gurugram, police officers aware of his arrest said.However, no senior police officer authorised to speak to the media confirmed Kalra’s arrest or disclosed where he was taken into custody from.Kalra was allegedly on the run since the recovery of 524 oxygen concentrators from three of his restaurants – Khan Chacha, Town Hall and Nege & Ju – and from the office of Matrix Cellular on May 7. A Delhi court on Thursday refused to grant protection from arrest to Kalra, following which he moved the Delhi high court. The high court on Friday also declined to grant any interim relief to him.“I am persuaded by the reasons given by the trial court which is a valid ground for me not to grant any interim protection now,” said the single-judge bench of justice Subramonium Prasad.He posted the matter for further hearing to Tuesday (May 18), after additional solicitor general SV Raju, appearing for the police, sought more time to file a reply and argue the case.Raju also opposed any interim relief to Kalra by arguing that the present case was not one where such a protection can be given.Investigators said they possess evidence to prove that the oxygen concentrators, which were bought for ₹14,000 to ₹15,000, were being sold for prices upwards of ₹75,000.Demand for oxygen concentrators had swelled during the fourth wave of the Covid-19 pandemic in the national capital with many hospitals running out of medical oxygen as the number of critically ill patients rose. Such concentrators, which can derive 80-90% pure oxygen from ambient air, was also a crucial part of the medical supplies and aids provided by many foreign countries to help India’s efforts against the pandemic.On Friday, senior advocates Abhishek Manu Singhvi and Vikas Pahwa, who appeared for Kalra, sought interim relief for their client till the matter was heard on Tuesday (May 18). Singhvi argued that this was a case of harassment and punishment cannot be given to a person before fixation of price of an essential commodity.On Thursday, Singhvi had said that his client bought the concentrators from Matrix Cellular after paying GST and the payment was made via credit card, therefore, there was nothing clandestine about the purchase of the equipment. He had said that Kalra sold the equipment within the labelled price that Matrix, which imported the concentrators, had fixed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/navneet-kalra-held-in-o2-concentrator-case-101621201871448.html
17-05-2021||Chandigarh||Expressing solidarity with Palestine is not a crime: Mehbooba||A day after police admitted to having arrested 20 persons in Kashmir, including a graffiti designer, for protesting against Israel and supporting Palestine, former J&K chief minister and PDP president Mehbooba Mufti said that expressing solidarity with Palestine is not a crime.She also condemned the arrest of two sons of senior separatist leader Ashraf Sehrai who was arrested under PSA last year and had contracted Covid while in jail and died at a Jammu hospital earlier this month. “People all over the world are protesting against the atrocities committed by Israel on Palestine. But in Kashmir, it’s a punishable offence where an artist is booked under PSA & a preacher is arrested simply for expressing solidarity with Palestinians,” tweeted Mehbooba Mufti.“PSA is GOI’s go to method for every problem. Latest example being Ashraf Sehrai’s sons who lost their father in custody due to inadequate medical care & have been arrested under PSA. In rest of India dead are being ill treated but in Kashmir its the living who are made to suffer,” she said in another tweet.Meanwhile, Peoples’ Conference chairman Sajjad Lone, reacting on arrest of Sehrai’s two sons, said the government should bring this “Rambo Culture” to an end.” A police spokesperson wrote on their official handle that Sehrai’s two sons had been arrested for “raising anti-national slogans during Sehrai’s funeral”, but not booked under PSA. “J&K Police are keeping a close watch on elements attempting to leverage the unfortunate situation in Palestine to disturb the peace and order in Kashmir. We are a professional force and are sensitive to public anguish. But J&K police have a legal responsibility to ensure law and order. It, however, wouldn’t allow cynical encashment of the public anger to trigger violence, lawlessness and disorder on Kashmir streets,” said the police spokesperson.Kashmir IGP Vijay Kumar said that they won’t allow protests in the Valley in the larger interest of general public.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/expressing-solidarity-with-palestine-is-not-a-crime-mehbooba-101621195988866.html
17-05-2021||Chandigarh||Vaccination centres run out of doses in Kashmir||Two weeks after J&K’s Lt Governor Manoj Sinha announced that 1.2 crore doses of vaccine have been ordered, the vaccination centres in the Valley are running dry as government has failed to arrange vaccines.The numbers provided by the J&K government also reflect that very few doses are being administered in the UT since last one week. Even the people, who are due for the second jab, complain that they are unable to find vaccination centres where they can go for inoculation.On Saturday, just 607 people received vaccines in 10 districts of Kashmir, while in seven districts, including Srinagar, not a single person got vaccinated. In Jammu’s 10 districts, 15,268 people were vaccinated, data shows. Similarly on May 14, 208 were jabbed in 10 Kashmir districts, while in Srinagar and five other districts, not a single person got the shot. In Jammu, 15,790 had received jabs.A day earlier, on Thursday, not a single vaccine was administered in 10 districts of Kashmir, while in as many districts of Jammu, 4,893 were inoculated. So far, as per the official figures, 28,04,543 people have received the shots in the entire J&K and most of these were administered a month ago when everyday, around 50,000 people used to get vaccines. However, due to the non-availability of vaccines, most of the vaccination centres are closed or the officials ask people to wait till the vaccines are available. “It’s an irony that now, stock of vaccines has dried up. Most of the centres are shut and government is asking people to get vaccinated. They don’t tell us where to send the people,” said a senior doctor at Government Medical College in Srinagar.On April 29, L-G Sinha, while chairing a meeting with office-bearers and volunteers of Indian Red Cross Society, had said that people of J&K need not panic as the government is equipped to deal with the emerging situation and 1.2 crore doses have been ordered for vaccination of 18-45 age group. Meanwhile, People’s Conference led by Sajjad Lone on Sunday said that government of Jammu and Kashmir should float global tenders to end vaccine paucity in the UT and termed the scarcity of doses in the Valley “extremely worrying”.Former legislator and party’s general secretary Imran Reza Ansari in a statement issued here highlighted how health centres across the Valley were battling the shortage of vaccines and that many sites, as per the reports, have been closed due to the unavailability of vaccines. “There is a wave of mounting anger and frustration due to tardy vaccination roll-out in J&K with some high-risk groups crying out for protection. The vaccine is the only bulwark available against the current calamity and denying the public such a facility amid the present peak is deplorable and inexplicable,” Ansari said.He said if reports were to be believed, there were mere 208 jabs administered to the people in Kashmir in the last 24 hours while in Jammu, the number is 20,000 in the last 48 hours. “We care for the people of all regions as much as we care for ourselves, but prioritising one region and ignoring the other amid the deadly pandemic is regrettable. We demand an absolute uniformity in the supply of the vaccines in Jammu and Kashmir. Precious human lives are getting consumed and the shortage of vaccines is only making things worse,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/vaccination-centres-run-out-of-doses-in-kashmir-101621195931008.html
17-05-2021||Chandigarh||Five Kashmir oxygen generation units diverted to Jammu||As Jammu division has witnessed a surge in Covid-related deaths in the past three weeks, five oxygen plants meant for Kashmir hospitals have been diverted to Jammu.Though Kashmir division is witnessing more coronavirus cases, the death toll for the past two weeks is less than that of Jammu’s. However, experts warn that diverting medical assets from one place to another could be a riskier proposition. The Valley has recorded 63% of the UT’s overall cases in the first half of May. Of the 64,300 cases from May 1 to 15, 40,900 are reported in Kashmir and 23,400 in Jammu. However, of 808 deaths, 520 have taken place in Jammu division. Officials in the mechanical engineering department, the authority responsible to acquire these plants, said Kashmir and Jammu divisions were allotted ₹125 crore each to acquire 37 pressure swing adsorption (PSA) oxygen units for each division by March 31. Officials in Kashmir were able to acquire some of the units amid the surging coronavirus cases, while the supply order in Jammu got delayed till May 7 owing to failure of the commencement of the contract with their supplier, they added.They said that despite the need of oxygen plants in Kashmir, three of the Valley’s 1,000 litres-per-minute (LPM) units have already been shifted to Jammu, while two more will be given to the division after they arrive here from Germany. “Of the 37 oxygen plants required for Kashmir, we have so far acquired 20 units, but could only install 17 here as three were installed in Jammu,” said an official who didn’t wish to be named. Nine PSA oxygen units are arriving — eight from Kashmir quota and one from Jammu quota — within a day or two. While seven will be air lifted, two are following the normal transportation procedures. “Although Jammu people are in urgent need of these plants right now, we too desperately need all of these 37 plants to save lives here,” he added. Of the five units, which have been diverted, two were meant for Srinagar’s Shri Maharaja Hari Singh Hospital and Jawaharlal Nehru Memorial Hospital, while one was for Anantnag and two for Baramulla. Sources said it was decided to now fill up the deficit in the Valley by internally diverting oxygen plants of those districts which are not burdened by caseload.“Oxygen plants meant for Shopian and Bandipora districts will be now installed at two of the above places,” he said.Mechanical engineering department’s chief engineer Abdul Rashid Dar admitted that they have shifted a few plants to Jammu. “Only two plants of 1000 LPM capacity have been diverted. Their contract had failed. We had secured our contract on time, so we are placing orders for six plants from here for Jammu for now,” he added. He said that of the 37 PSA oxygen generation units ordered for Kashmir, 34 were from Germany while three were to be acquired from an American company.“We have already acquired 20 and seven more are being airlifted,” he said.“When all these oxygen plants will be set up, we will be sufficient in gaseous oxygen as we can’t rely on liquid medical oxygen owing to our road blockades for months during winter,” he added.The chief engineer said they will be replacing the plants which were shifted to Jammu back to the Valley after 45 days. Bodh Raj, executive engineer of mechanical hospital and central heating at Jammu division, said they have already installed 14 oxygen plants in various hospitals of Jammu.“Kashmir managed to get them before us, so the authorities thought about distributing the oxygen plants. Lives have to be saved. Every hour matters,” Raj said.He said the orders for other plants in Jammu have also been placed and they will arrive soon. Two more plants from Kashmir will most probably go to other district hospitals,” he added.He said that the daily oxygen requirement at Jammu GMC was 21 tonnes and it was sufficiently being supplied there. He said that no patient had died of the oxygen shortage in Jammu division.Doctors Association Kashmir president and influenza expert Nisar ul Haasan said that Jammu and Kashmir are part of the same region, but “siphoning off” the infrastructure of one place for another was unacceptable.“Without going into regional factors, we need to see scientifically where the need is more. And obviously, areas with more cases take priority. Diverting our infrastructure is a cause of concern. We don’t know how the virus will behave. We need more oxygen, more ventilators and more ICU beds because we can’t get them at the time of emergency,” he added. He said that the hospitals in Kashmir are full to capacity and those needing oxygen at home are being aided by NGOs. “We need to keep things ready for any eventuality and shifting the life-saving gadgetry is unacceptable,” Haasan said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/five-kashmir-oxygen-generation-units-diverted-to-jammu-101621195929969.html
17-05-2021||Chandigarh||Gangster Jaipal Bhullar, aides booked for killing 2 ASIs in Jagraon||Notorious gangster Jaipal Bhullar and three of his accomplices were booked on Sunday for shooting two assistant sub-inspectors (ASIs) of the crime investigation agency (CIA) dead in Jagraon town of Ludhiana district a day before. The aides of Bhullar, who belongs to Ferozepur district, are Balwinder Singh, alias Babbi of Mahalla Khurd village of Moga, Jaspreet Singh of Kharar in Mohali and Darshan Singh of Sahauli village of Ludhiana. The police said the suspects are likely to have links with some terror groups. The accused also took the service pistol of ASI Bhagwan Singh and mobile phone of ASI Dalwinderjit Singh along. It is learnt.Teams were formed on Sunday to arrest of the accused whose posters were released. Shoes, clothes and other belongings of the assailants were found in a truck abandoned by them. Jagraon deputy commissioner of police (DSP) Jatinderjit Singh said truck is owned by Gurpreet Singh of Bholeke village of Moga.Gurpreet told the police that he had bought the truck in partnership with Baljinder Singh, alias Babbi who later bought it from him.The Hyundai car used by the assailants in the crime has a fake number plate. They had robbed the vehicle at Dehlon in Ludhiana a few days ago, the police said.A case under Sections 302, 307, 397, 353, 186, 34 of the Indian Penal Code and sections 25, 54, 59 of the Arms Act was registered at Jagraon (city) police station on the statement of home guards jawan Rajwinder Singh who escaped unhurt in the incident despite the gangsters opened fire on him also.Bhullar is wanted by the police’s organised crime control unit (OCCU) in a 30kg gold heist case.Home guards jawan Rajwinder Singh said ASI Bhagwan Singh identified Bhullar who was sitting in the truck and challenged him to surrender. On this, the gangster opened fire on the ASI with the bullet hitting his neck, he added. The ASI died on the spot. Also, Bhullar’s accomplices fired at ASI Dalwinderjit who succumbed to the injuries on the way to hospital, he said.Cop’s body crematedThe mortal remains of ASI Bhagwan Singh were consigned to flames on Sunday. The funeral was attended by hundreds of people.Director general of police (railways) Sanjeev Kumar Kalra, inspector general of police (Ludhiana range) Naunihal Singh, Ludhiana deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma and SSP Charanjit Singh laid wreath on the body. The body of ASI Dalwinderjit was sent to his ancestral village in Tarn Taran district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/gangster-jaipal-bhullar-aides-booked-for-killing-2-asis-in-jagraon-101621195928688.html
17-05-2021||Chandigarh||Political misuse of vigilance bureau must stop, says Randhawa||A day after reports of a vigilance investigation into the alleged deals of close associates of former minister Navjot Singh Sidhu and his wife Navjot Kaur, Punjab jails and cooperation minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa on Sunday questioned the political misuse of the vigilance bureau by successive governments in the state.The cabinet minister said the misuse of vigilance bureau by the state governments for targeting or intimidating opponents should stop. This has been happening since 1977 when then chief minister Parkash Singh Badal got a case registered against Congress leaders, including Zail Singh, but nothing came out of it and then Capt (Amarinder Singh) and Badal also registered cases against each other during their respective governments, he told a private television channel, disapproving of the practice.Randhawa, who had offered to quit the cabinet last month over the botched-up probe by the special investigation team (SIT) into the Kotkapura police firing, stated that Sidhu had met Amarinder twice after which the latter said he offered to take him back into the cabinet. “If there was any inquiry against him (Sidhu), the CM should have said he cannot make him (Sidhu) a minister,” he said.As Sidhu has been targeting the chief minister on social media daily over his handling of the sacrilege and police firing cases among other issues, the state vigilance and anti-corruption bureau has fast-tracked its probe against the close associates of the Sidhu couple.Amid the Sidhu-Amarinder spat, Randhawa’s statement has come as much-needed support to the Amritsar (east) MLA at a time when seven other cabinet ministers have demanded his suspension from Congress for anti-party activities.Confirming his meeting with Sidhu and some other MLAs in Panchkula more than a week ago, Randhawa said the former minister told him that he would not quit Congress. “There have been meetings to save the Congress, which is on the back foot, since the high court order in the 2015 police firing case,” he said, denying any differences with the chief minister at the same time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/political-misuse-of-vigilance-bureau-must-stop-says-randhawa-101621195868982.html
17-05-2021||Chandigarh||300 test positive post-vaccination in Punjab in a fortnight, no one hospitalised||Nearly 300 people, who had got their first or both doses of vaccine, were tested positive for the coronavirus in Punjab in the last 15 days, with the state health department claiming that none of them needed to be hospitalised.State Covid-19 nodal officer Dr Rajesh Bhaskar said most of these people had only mild or moderate symptoms and that vaccine was quite effective in preventing hospitalisation or fatalities. “Earlier, we were not collecting data on the number of fully or partially vaccinated people being tested positive for Covid-19. But after the government’s direction, the health department started keeping tabs on such cases. The severity of infection was quite low in these people even as majority of them had received the first shot only,” he said. Dr Bhaskar added, “Punjab is administering vaccine on thousands of people daily and 300 people testing positive is not a big number. But we are still keeping a close watch on them.”So far, the state health department has inoculated 34 lakh eligible beneficiaries of which 6.7 lakh have received the second dose. HT talked to an 85-year-old Jalandhar-based woman who was found infected after getting both doses. She said, “Despite suffering from hypertension and age-related ailments, I did not develop any severe infection.”Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Amritsar, medical superintendent Dr KD Singh, a microbiologist, said, “Since vaccines boost immunity, antibodies are develop in people after inoculation and help them to fight the deadly virus. Covid-19 is spreading through air and it attacks the lungs and other organs after entering the nose. People are not developing major lungs infection after testing positive for Covid-19 even if vaccinated with a single dose.”70 re-infection cases Seventy persons, who had tested positive for Covid-19 across the state last year but had recovered, have caught the infection again. “Low severity of the disease was found in them. Many did not develop antibodies even after recovery and can again catch the virus. The health department is monitoring their health conditions,” said Dr Rajesh Bhaskar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/300-test-positive-post-vaccination-in-punjab-in-a-fortnight-no-one-hospitalised-101621195571749.html
17-05-2021||Chandigarh||5 villages in Punjab’s Mansa district sealed in a week amid spurt in infections, deaths||The district authorities in Mansa have sealed five villages in the past one week amid an increase in coronavirus infections and deaths. On Saturday, Joga village the district’s Bhikhi block was sealed for the next 10 days. The village with a population of about 11,000 has witnessed 10 Covid-19 deaths and 96 active cases since May 1. Nangal Kalan, Khiala Kalan, Akkanwali, Phapphre Bhai Ke villages of the district have also been declared containment zone since May 10. One urban pocket each in the towns of Mansa and Budladha have also been declared containment zones in the past week.Joga is among several villages from where the majority of adult rural population is participating in the ongoing farmers’ agitation at the Delhi borders. It is for the first time that villages in Mansa have been declared containment zone after the second wave of pandemic hit the state. An area is declared a containment zone after more than 15 cases of virus infections are detected there. “House-to-house screening has begun. Healthcare teams are trying to convince villagers to follow Covid guidelines. We were able to vaccinate nearly 500 residents and a section is hesitant to take jabs,” said Dr Hardeep Sharma, senior medical officer of Khiala Kalan public health centre.Khiala Kalan, which has 34 active cases, has reported two Covid-deaths in the last two weeks. On Sunday, two residents from the Khiala Kalan block, including a 27-year-old man, succumbed to the virus. As many 92 residents from the block were tested positive on Sunday.With four deaths and 298 cases reported on Sunday, the number of active cases in the district reached 3,299. Since May 1, the district reported 5,164 new cases of infection and witnessed 52 Covid deaths. Deputy commissioner Mohinder Pal said police are strictly enforcing the containment protocol and unwanted movement of people has been barred to contain infection spread. “Most villagers were visiting dharna sites at very regular intervals. As they are falling sick in considerable numbers, villagers are reluctant to reveal details of their travel and places they visited. Ideally, they should have isolated themselves for five days after visiting the venue of a large gathering,” said a district official.Mansa civil surgeon Dr Sukhwinder Singh said a section of people were falsely claiming that 5G radiation emitted from mobile phone towers is causing the second wave of Covid and people should refrain from such misinformation,” he said.On May 14, Haryana president of Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) Gurnam Singh Chaduni, who has been mobilising farmers of Punjab and other states to join the dharna sites at the Delhi border, claimed in a Facebook video that deaths caused by 5G network were being attributed to the coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/5-villages-in-punjab-s-mansa-district-sealed-in-a-week-amid-spurt-in-infections-deaths-101621195569491.html
17-05-2021||Chandigarh||Malerkotla as new district: Som Parkash differs with Yogi, Punjab BJP leaders, hails Capt||Toeing a different line from his party leaders, Hoshiarpur BJP MP and Union minister Som Parkash on Sunday hailed chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh for naming Malerkotla as Punjab 23rd district and demanded that the same status be accorded to Phagwara too. Amarinder’s Eid (May 14) announcement had drawn a sharp reaction from UP CM Yogi Adityanath and BJP general secretary and Punjab leader Tarun Chugh, who described the decision divisive and communal. Reacting to the criticism, Amarinder had slammed Adityanath, terming it an attempt to incite “communal hatred”. “I congratulate the people of Malerkotla and thank chief minister @capt_amarinder ji for declaring #Malerkotla as a district. It is a rich tribute to the Nawab of Malerkotla Sher Mohammad Khan who protested the execution of the two Sahibzade (younger sons of 10th Sikh master Guru Gobind Singh),” Parkash tweeted. In another tweet, the minister termed Malerkotla a symbol of communal harmony. People of Phagwara and all parties have been long demanding a district status for Phagwara, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/malerkotla-as-new-district-som-parkash-differs-with-yogi-punjab-bjp-leaders-hails-capt-101621195510447.html
17-05-2021||Other||Centre tells Punjab to release revised power tariff at earliest||The Union power ministry has told the Punjab State Electricity Regulatory Commission (PSERC) and state additional chief secretary (power) to finalise the tariff for the current financial year at the earliest.PSERC held its last public hearing in the last week of April, but it is yet to announce the tariff for the current fiscal.Twenty states, including neighbouring Haryana and Himachal, have already declared their respective power tariffs for the current fiscal, while Punjab and some other states are yet to finalise the same. Reminding of its old directions, the Union ministry has sought completion of the process at the earliest.According to the norms, the new tariff should be declared before the end of the last fiscal.PSPCL’s flip-flop Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) filed its annual revenue requirement (ARR) petition in December 2020. However, it made a flip-flop as after asking for a tariff hike of 9%, it filed an amended ARR seeking rebate in the tariff — a move seen as an inference of the state government as assembly elections are due in the latter part of current fiscal.In its revised ARR, the PSPCL has proposed a 32% cut in domestic consumer tariff for those with less than 7KW connected load.Further, it proposed that cumulative revenue gap of ₹9,807 crore at the end of 2021-22 shall be treated as a regulatory asset that may be recovered over the next two to five years. A major chunk of revenue goes to fixed costs of the private thermal plants, but when the power demand dips after the paddy season, PSPCL is forced to pay the fixed cost even without drawing electricity.As per PSERC regulations, the regulatory asset shall have to be recovered within the next three financial years.Don’t create regulatory assets, states told In a letter issued on May 3 to the states, the Union ministry has also asked the latter not to create the regulatory assets.“The Punjab government charges 20% excise duty on the tariff which is more than ₹1.25 per unit. In case the state wants to give relief to a section of domestic consumers, it should reduce the excise duty for such category of consumers. It should not ask for regulatory assets which shall be passed on to the consumers at a later stage. It will give a major jolt to consumers after elections,” said VK Gupta, spokesperson of All India Power Engineers’ Federation. This implies that the burden on consumers has only been deferred to a future date.Moreover, PSPCL is to pay coal washing charges in two instalments to the private thermal plants at Rajpura and Talwandi Sabo.One instalment has already been paid and the second is to be given before month-end. This may be recovered by way of fuel charges.Pendency of arrears As per estimates, the power subsidy amount during 2021-22 is likely to be of the order of ₹17,000 crore, including pending arrears of ₹5,779 crore, whereas Punjab has earmarked only ₹10,621 crore for subsidy payment in its budget for 2021-22.The consistent pendency of arrears towards Punjab government is becoming the biggest threat to the survival of PSPCL.Meanwhile, a PSERC official said the new chairman has assumed the charge and has initiated the process of finalising the tariff, which likely to be announced by the end of this month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/centre-tells-punjab-to-release-revised-power-tariff-at-earliest-101621195509496.html
17-05-2021||Chandigarh||Stakeholders seek review of Centre-notified basmati seed varieties||Even as Punjab’s agriculture department has pegged a one-third increase in the area under aromatic basmati from 4.06 lakh hectares in the previous kharif season to 5.35 lakh hectares in the upcoming one, there is a lack of clarity over the number of varieties notified by the Union agriculture ministry.The sowing of aromatic variety grain begins in the first week of July, and currently, traders and farmers are arranging for the seeds.“Thirty-four varieties of the aromatic paddy have been notified by the union agriculture ministry which is creating lot confusion among farmers and millers. We need to discard such varieties which are not grown and have no commercial value,” suggested Ashok Sethi, director, Punjab Rice Exporters’ Association.According to Sethi, presently most popular and accepted variety in the international market is basmati 1121, both for parboiled and steamed rice. “It is recommended that genuine seeds authorised by the Basmati Export Development Foundation (BEDF) be made available to the rice growers,” he suggested.Concerns over falling quality Seeking a review of the list of basmati seed varieties after discussion with exporters, agricultural scientists and experts at Agricultural and Processed Food Products Export Development Authority (APEDA), Sethi raised the issue that certain seed producers outside the state have geographical indication tags for growing basmati.Giving example of the 90-day 1509 variety, introduced by the Indian Council for Agricultural Research (ICAR) in 2016, Sethi said the original seeds bore good results, but later due to cultivation at commercial levels, the grain quality turned out poor and during shelling, 50% was broken.Seed variety 1718 is also facing similar issues, said Sethi, suggesting scientists share characteristics of new seeds for quality and nutritional value analysis.Harpreet Singh, a basmati grower from Batala, said that farmers are reluctant to grow 1509-variety owing to the poor quality of seeds available.“Though it is a short duration variety, the grain quality has deteriorated over the years. The 1708 variety of ICAR, an improved version of PUSA-1121, has not been fully accepted by the farmers,” he said.Last season, this variety sold for ₹2,700 to ₹2,800 a quintal, and fetched higher rates in the previous years.Agri dept recommends PAU varieties State agriculture director SS Sidhu recommends basmati growers to adopt the varieties developed by Punjab Agricultural University (PAU), Ludhiana. “The PR varieties are the best as they are grown locally and are suitable in view of the weather and soil conditions,” he added. He asked Punjab and Haryana farmers to grow PR121, 126, 127, and 128 varieties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/stakeholders-seek-review-of-centre-notified-basmati-seed-varieties-101621195508312.html
17-05-2021||Chandigarh||4,141 more contract infection in J&K||As many as 59 people lost their lives to Covid on Sunday with 4,141 fresh infections in the past 24 hours taking the overall death toll to 3,149 and the total cases to 2, 44,608.Of the 59 deaths in the UT, 31 were reported in Jammu division and 28 in Kashmir. May has been the worst month for Jammu and Kashmir in terms of Covid cases and deaths as the monthly infections have reached 68,525 and fatalities to 867 on Sunday. The number of patients who have recovered from the disease this month so far is 44,395.“Covid fatalities can be reduced by timely testing and hospitalisation,” said surveillance medical officer of World Health Organisation, Jammu, Dr Ravinder Pal Singh.Officials said with 831 cases, Srinagar had the highest number of new infections, followed by 625 in Jammu district, 320 in Budgam and 252 in Baramulla and 237 in Rajouri. The number of active cases has reached 51,623, officials said. “Covid is no taboo and the majority of the patients who contract the infection recover easily. If any family in your neighbourhood has a Covid patient, do not ostracise them. Give them support, moral or otherwise,” Dr Singh said.Officials said that some 3,934 patients have recovered of the disease, including 2,749 from Kashmir and 1,185 from Jammu. As many as 1,89,836 people have recovered so far, taking the recovery rate to 77.60% against around 98% in the first fortnight of February.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/4141-more-contract-infection-in-jk-101621195449675.html
17-05-2021||Chandigarh||Vax drive for 18+ starts in Himachal today, over 21,000 to take shot||The vaccination of people in the age group of 18-44 would start on Monday in Himachal Pradesh. The estimated population in the age group is 31 lakh. The state has placed an order for 74 lakh doses for the 18-44 age group and has received 1,07,620 doses of Covishield from the Serum Institute of India (SII), Pune. The remaining doses will be supplied to the state by SII in phased manner in next three-four weeks. A state government spokesperson said that eligible people who have registered on the CoWin portal will get the jab on first come first serve basis. He said the vaccination for this age group will be held on only two days in a week — Mondays and Thursdays. He said that vaccination will be held at 213 centres on the first day. As of now, 21,090 people have booked appointment for vaccination. He said to avoid any inconvenience and overcrowding at the session sites, the beneficiaries should arrive as per their registered schedules only. To avoid any hassle, it has also been decided that the vaccination of 18-44 years age group will be done at dedicated sites only and exclusive vaccination sessions will be created so that there is no mix-up between the beneficiaries of these age group and the prioritised age group. The government spokesperson said that DCs and SPs have also been requested to ensure law and order at these sites. In the first phase, vaccination will be done on May 17, 20, 24, 27 and 31. Another deadliest day as 70 succumb to Covid Himachal Pradesh on Tuesday witnessed deadliest day since the outbreak of Covid pandemic after 70 patients succumbed to the contagion, highest single-day fatalities. The death toll has mounted to 2,311. Highest 30 fatalities were reported in Kangra, 11 in Shimla, six each in Mandi and Solan, four each in Hamirpur, Sirmaur and Una, two in Kullu and one each in Chamba, Kinnaur and Lahaul-Spiti. Before this, maximum fatalities were reported on Friday, May 14, when 67 people lost their lives. Kangra, Shimla and Mandi collectively account for 60% deaths. Kangra has recorded highest 662 fatalities since the outbreak, followed by Shimla where 463 people have died and Mandi, where 265 succumbed. Meanwhile, the state recorded 2,378 fresh Covid-19 cases taking the state’s total count to 1,60,240. Of the new cases, 787 were reported in Kangra, 336 in Solan, 242 in Shimla, 206 in Una, 181 in Chamba, 156 in Mandi, 144 in Hamirpur, 113 in Bilaspur, 95 in Sirmaur, 80 in Kullu, 23 in Lahaul-Spiti and 15 in Kinnaur. The state also recorded 4,974 recoveries — highest in a single day. The total recoveries have reached 1,20,990. Kangra has clocked highest recoveries of 22,706 followed by Mandi (17,748), Shimla (16,965) and Solan (15,343). Active cases come down to 36,909 In terms of total caseload, Kangra is the worst-hit district with 34,949 infections and is followed by Mandi with 21,884 cases and Shimla with 20,560 cases. Solan has total 19,006 cases, Sirmaur 12,282, Hamirpur 11,257, Una 10,440, Bilaspur 9,956, Chamba 7,918, Kullu 7,297, Lahaul-Spiti 2,364 and Kinnaur 2,327.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/vax-drive-for-18-starts-in-himachal-today-over-21-000-to-take-shot-101621195448403.html
17-05-2021||Chandigarh||Nihang hacked to death in Batala, 14 booked||A 55-year-old Nihang was hacked to death in broad daylight over old enmity in Batala on Sunday, said police. The incident took place around 11:30am when Narinder Singh Mann, along with his aide Gurdev Singh, was on his way from Isha Nagar in Batala to Talwandi village on a motorcycle. Police said 14 persons, mostly Nihangs, who came in a jeep, attacked Mann with sharp-edged weapons. He was rushed to the civil hospital where he died. Mann was associated with Misal Saheed Baba Banda Singh Bahadur Tarna Dal (an outfit of Nihang Sikhs) and used to stop the accused from preparing cannabis drinks at a gurdwara in Batala city, said police.A case under Sections 302 (murder), 34 (Acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) has been registered against 14 persons. Of these, two have been identified as Major Singh and Sahib Singh. Gurdev said the accused nursed a grudge against Mann as he used to object to their activities in the gurdwara. Senior superintendent of police (SSP) Rashpal Singh said raids were on to nab the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/nihang-hacked-to-death-in-batala-14-booked-101621194608487.html
17-05-2021||Chandigarh||Despite govt orders, health workers in Punjab vaccinating all in 18-44 age group||Defying state government orders to vaccinate certain set of people in 18-44 age group, the vaccination is open for all at all immunization facilities across the state.In the third phase of vaccination in this particular age group, the state government is specifically inoculating families of healthcare workers, co-morbid persons and construction workers. However, people in these age groups can be seen thronging vaccination centres in huge numbers, making it difficult for health authorities to arrange vaccine for all. It has been seen that the health staffers could not ask the beneficiaries to show any comorbid condition card or any other documents related to their disease before registering them for the vaccination.“The problem is not only persisting in Patiala but across the state. This is the main reason that Punjab exhausted one lakh doses of Covid vaccines in three days,” said a senior doctor.He added that the health teams could not deny vaccine when people in this age group walked in directly to get the jab.Patiala civil surgeon Dr Satinder Singh said the health teams have been instructed to follow strict guidelines issued by the government to entertain certain categories in the 18-44 age group.“The categories defined by the government are administered vaccination on priority basis. We are monitoring the situation on daily basis and try to cover maximum people under this age group,” Dr Singh said.People come with some health certificate along with them to get vaccinated, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/despite-govt-orders-health-workers-in-punjab-vaccinating-all-in-18-44-age-group-101621194368446.html
17-05-2021||Other||All Uttar Pradesh districts report less than 1000 fresh Covid-19 cases||Uttar Pradesh recorded a further fall in fresh Covid cases on Sunday, with all 75 districts reporting less than 1,000 new cases, according to official data. The state logged 10682 Covid cases and 311 fatalities on Sunday. With this, the case tally has reached 1619645 and the death toll reached 17546 . Over 80% of the total active cases under treatment in the state were in home isolation, said the data from the state health department. “Of the total 163003 active cases under treatment, 134615 are in home isolation,” said Amit Mohan Prasad, additional chief secretary, medical health, in a (virtual) press conference on the Covid situation in the state on Sunday evening. Precisely 82.58% of the active cases are in home isolation. “The remaining patients are getting treatment in government and private Covid facilities. The recovery rate in the state is 88.92%,” said Prasad. On Sunday, all 75 districts reported less than 1,000 fresh cases, maximum 701 being from Meerut. Maximum 27 deaths were also reported from Meerut while Lucknow reported 20, Kanpur 13, Prayagraj 4, Chandauli and Basti 12 each, Jhansi, Azamgarh and Saharanpur 9 each, Mathura 10, Ghaziabad 7, Gautam Buddha Nagar 4 and Varanasi 7 deaths, according to state health department data. In all 12 districts reported zero deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/all-uttar-pradesh-districts-report-less-than-1000-fresh-covid-19-cases-101621194307669.html
17-05-2021||Chandigarh||Capt launches ‘Covid Fateh’ drive to tackle pandemic in rural areas||Chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Sunday launched “Covid Fateh” programme as part of a “Corona Mukt Pind Abhiyaan” to tackle the spread of Covid pandemic in the rural areas of the state. He stressed the need to avoid the kind of situation prevailing in the villages of Uttar Pradesh and directed the health and rural development departments to lead the campaign with mobilisation of the community in the villages. “The entire staff should be utilised to spread awareness among the villagers on the dangers of Covid,” he said, adding that the health and wellness clinics should become the fulcrum, and community health officers, panchayats, school teachers, anganwadi and ASHA workers, village police officers, youth volunteers must be mobilised to steer the programme. The Guardians of Governance and the police force should work closely to make this programme a success, he said, adding that the idea is to spread awareness and dispel myths and also ensure adequate sampling and vaccination. Terming the casual attitude of the people towards symptoms like cold and cough, which they do not report timely, as the biggest issue, Amarinder called for early identification of the infected people and ensuring early treatment. Symptomatic persons should be given basic medicines like paracetamol and cough syrup, and vitamin C, at their doorsteps, he directed, and said they should be encouraged to get tested and supported in home isolation if they test positive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/capt-launches-covid-fateh-drive-to-tackle-pandemic-in-rural-areas-101621194188311.html
17-05-2021||Other||Ram Mandir Trust to also construct a Ganesha temple in Ayodhya||LUCKNOW The Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust will also construct a temple of Lord Ganesha in Ayodhya. Champat Rai, general secretary of the trust, on Saturday performed the ‘Bhoomi Pujan’ of the temple which will come up in the eastern part of the city. Ayodhya mayor Rishikesh Upadhyay and several seers were also present on the occasion. After ‘Bhoomi Pujan’, a seven- day ‘Sapta Chandi Yajna’, a Vedic ritual, also began for the end of the pandemic and removal of all hurdles in the construction of Ram Mandir. According to the trust, the temple dedicated to Lord Ganesha is being constructed for the ending of the pandemic and timely construction of Ram Mandir. “The idol of Lord Ganesha in this temple will be facing Ram Mandir. As the lord (Ganesha) is considered to be Vighnaharta (one who removes obstacles), He will help the country fight the pandemic and will also ensure timely construction of Ram Mandir,” said Champat Rai. Last month, the Ram Mandir construction committee started filling work of Ram Mandir’s foundation with the target of completing 1.25 lakh cubic metre dug-up ground at Ram Janmabhoomi by September end. During this filling process, around 44 layers of 300 mm each will be laid. Thereafter, each layer will be compressed with simple and vibrating rollers. “The vibrating roller will generate vibrations to make the temple’s foundation strong and will ensure maximum compression. After each rolling process, the 300 mm layer is likely to be a compressed to around 250 mm,” said Rai. Larsen & Toubro is carrying out construction work of Ram Mandir. The Tata Consulting Engineers is working as project management consultant and is assisting Larsen & Toubro in constructions work of the temple.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ram-mandir-trust-to-also-construct-a-ganesha-temple-in-ayodhya-101621194068769.html
17-05-2021||Chandigarh||Restrictions extended till May 31 as Punjab continues to record high CFR||Chief minister Amarinder Singh on Sunday ordered extension of all restrictions imposed to contain Covid-19 spread till May 31, with directions for strict enforcement of the curbs. The decision comes as the state continues to record a high positivity rate of 13.1% for the last week and a case fatality rate at 2.4%.The CM said deputy commissioners will continue to determine the opening of shops in a staggered manner and enforce other restrictions to check the spread of Covid, particularly in the rural belt. Depending on the local conditions, the DCs can make suitable amendments, added the CM. He asked the district administrations to ensure food kits for those in quarantine. Reviewing the state’s Covid-19 situation at a meeting, he said while the restrictions so far had shown results, with some decline in day-to-day positivity and cases coming down from around 9,000 to 6,000, there was a need to extend the same due to the high positivity rate of 13.1% as of the May 9 to May 15 period, with case fatality rate (CFR) standing at 2.4.Raising concerns over the spread of the new fungal disorder associated with Covid, the CM said that there’s need to increase surveillance. Dr KK Talwar, who heads the government’s expert group on Covid, termed the fungal infection as a serious issue, which could be attributed to either high use of steroids or use of un-distilled water in oxygen. The CM also directed the district administrations to investigate complaints of patients being fleeced by some private hospitals, warning that these would be shut down if they continue to indulge in malpractices. On the availability of oxygen, the CM asked the health department to monitor the situation, adding that his government had arranged PSA plants and was expecting over 2,500 oxygen concentrators this month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/restrictions-extended-till-may-31-as-punjab-continues-to-record-high-cfr-101621194068314.html
17-05-2021||Other||Getting much-needed medicines an uphill task in rural pockets||Villagers in some parts of UP have to travel several kilometres before they can get the medicines that are prescribed to them for the treatment of Covid-19 and its related complications though other drugs for fever and cold are often available at grocery stores. This situation is especially true in the case of Agra in western Uttar Pradesh and in Prayagraj in eastern Uttar Pradesh. Dataram Kushwaha, 62, resident of Holipura village in Agra, says, “We have to travel to Bhadroli about seven kilometres from our village for the medicines. And if it is not available at Bhadroli, we travel another 11 kilometres to the town to buy them.” Ramu Sharma, a shopowner in Anwal Kheda, a suburban town 14 kilometres from Agra city, agrees that villagers come to his shop from about 10 to 15 kilometres away to purchase medicines that the doctors prescribe. “There are other shops, too, in the town. Villagers come by cycles or other means to get them,” adds Sharma.Non-availability of medicines often paves the way for quacks to step in. “Primary health centres don’t have all the medicines that are required and thus villagers have to rely on medical shops in Bah, Jarar, Bateshwar and Jaitpur,” says Bharat Sharma, a resident of Bah town in Agra. In Prayagraj, people in villages like Sujani, Kotar Harbari, Bisaura, Renga and Kauhat and others in the trans-Yamuna area, too, need to cover vast distances to reach medical stores in search of medicines.“Many medicines like Azithromycin, Doxycycline, Vitamin C tablets etc are unavailable in medical stores located at Jari, Naribari, Laltara and Khiri, which is a major problem. We often have to get the medicines from Prayagraj city located almost 50 km from here,” says Vishnu Tiwari, resident of Kotar village in Prayagraj. At Mauaima, a town area around 35 km from Prayagraj city, one can get some medicines at the printed rate but not of one’s own choice or the one recommended by the doctor. Most medical stores here are offering alternatives, claiming the drug salts to be the same as the one sought by the consumer, locals say. Away from Mauaima town area, there is a high demand for medicines at nearby medical stores such as Ivermectin, Azithromycin, Vitamin C, Paracetamol, Doxycycline—the usual medicines being prescribed by doctors to treat Covid-19 infected patients. When asked, almost all medical stores’ proprietors and chemists say the wholesale suppliers are not giving medicines according to their demand and so they are finding it tough to make the medicines available to the people. Paracetamol, Vitamin C, Azithromycin are not available in some places while in others the chemists are agreeing to give only four tablets of paracetamol when 10 are sought, says Mohd Akhtar, a resident of Mauaima gram panchayat area. A chemist Indresh, who runs a shop in Mauaima town area, says stocks of that medicines like Fabiflu and Zincovit are also very low.Though medicines are available at bigger chemist shops in Phulpur tehsil, also 35 km from Sangam city in the trans-Ganga area of the Prayagraj district, one has to stand in long queues, especially during the morning and evening when most consumers come in a bid to avoid the afternoon heat. “One has to visit multiple medical stores to get all the medicines he/she needs,” says Indu Verma, a local. Some locals like Radhey Lal of Akdala village allege that some of the medical store owners are overcharging for medicines in great demand to treat Covid-19 infection. The locals echo a similar complaint in Bara tehsil, around 40 km from Prayagaj city. Prayagraj district magistrate Bhanu Chandra Goswami says that supply of all essential items, including medicines, is being ensured in both urban and rural areas despite the partial corona curfew restrictions. “No shortage will be allowed to occur. Efforts are also on to crack down on anyone who indulges in black-marketing, stock-piling or selling medicines over the fixed price,” he adds. In the underdeveloped Sonbhadra district of eastern UP, social worker Jagat Vishwakarma, a resident of Faripan area, says ailing people who visit the community health centre (CHC) in Myorpur block of Sonbhadra are given medicines by the doctor. Dr Ashish Srivastava, medical superintendent of Myorpur CHC, says, “The patients, who come to the CHC for treatment, are attended and medicines are given to them as per need. We have a sufficient stock of medicines for common diseases and those which are given to the people having symptoms of Covid.” Pradhans, ANMs should be engaged for rural medicine stock: ExpertDr Ved Prakash, head of the department of pulmonary critical care medicine at King George’s Medical University (KGMU), said gram pradhans, ANMs (auxiliary nurse midwives) and ASHA workers (accredited social health activists) should be engaged to keep a stock of medicines in rural areas so that patients in need are not deprived.“In rural areas, there is no need to test all. If a few cases have come in a village, then all fever cases should be given attention as Covid patients. Any person with symptoms should be made to walk 500 metres or 700 steps in 6 minutes (walk test). If they are unable to do, they should be treated as patients of chest infection with adequate dose of steroids,” said Dr Ved Prakash.He said, “Treatment in village should be aggressive and not gradual as such a treatment methodology can allow the infection to grow and bring complexities. Each fever case should start the protocol medicine as soon as fever comes while those unable to do the walk test should be provided with steroids.”He said that doctors in the rural areas were being told to make this the treatment protocol.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/getting-much-needed-medicines-an-uphill-task-in-rural-pockets-101621193768852.html
17-05-2021||Chandigarh||202 more Covid deaths, 7,038 new cases in Punjab||Punjab registered 202 more coronavirus deaths, taking the toll to 11,895 on Sunday, according to a medical bulletin.The infection tally rose to 4.98 lakh with 7,038 new cases, while 9,059 more patients recovered. The active cases declined from 77,789 the previous day to 75,478, the bulletin stated.The test positivity rate is 9.76 per cent and the number of recoveries rose to 4.1 lakh, it said.Twenty-two deaths were reported from Bathinda, 20 from Ludhiana, 19 each from Muktsar and Fazilka, and 15 from Patiala, among others.Ludhiana reported 942 cases, but it was lower than Saturday’s infections of 1,132. Bathinda registered 705 more cases, followed by 673 in Jalandhar and 542 in Mohali.There are 443 critical patients who are on ventilator support, while 9,796 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/202-more-covid-deaths-7-038-new-cases-in-punjab-101621193768270.html
17-05-2021||Chandigarh||IG Naunihal to head new SIT on Behbal Kalan firing case||A month after IG Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh proceeded on voluntary retirement, the state government constituted a new three-member special investigation team (SIT) to probe the 2015 Behbal Kalan police firing case in which two Sikh protestors were killed. The new SIT will be headed by inspector general IG) of police, Ludhiana range, Naunihal Singh, who will be assisted by Mohali senior superintendent of police Satinder Singh and Faridkot SSP Swarandeep Singh. The new SIT will probe two cases connected with the Behbal Kalan firing incident. One case was registered against protestors on October 14, 2015, while the second against the cops on October 21, 2015.Two youths were killed in the police firing at Behbal Kalan on October 14, 2015, while protesting against the desecration of Guru Granth Sahib at Bargari on October 12. Police had also opened fire on protesters at Kotkapura, leaving many injured, the same day. In its order dated May 15, a copy of which is with HT, the bureau of investigation (BOI) said that the two cases registered in connection with Behbal Kalan firing incident at Bajakhana police station were entrusted to sub-team of SIT headed by IG (retired) Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh. “In view of voluntary retirement of Kunwar Vijay, the investigation of these two FIRs will now be completed by SIT comprising IG Naunihal Singh, SSP Satinder Singh and SSP Swarandeep Singh. The new SIT may seek assistance of other persons and experts to complete the investigation expeditiously and submit the final report,” it reads.Kunwar Vijay was reportedly upset after the Punjab and Haryana high court quashed the probe reports submitted by the SIT probing the Kotkapura firing case, and ordered the government to form a new probe team. Kunwar Vijay’s voluntary retirement request was accepted with effect from April 15.In 2018, the state government constituted an SIT led by then bureau of investigation director Prabodh Kumar to investigate Kotkapura and Behbal Kalan firing cases on the recommendations of Justice Ranjit Singh Commission. Two IG- rank officers, Arun Pal Singh and Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh, SSP Satinder Singh and then commandant police recruits training centre (PRTC) Bhupinder Singh were the other members of the SIT. Initially, IG Kunwar Vijay was appointed to probe the Kotkapura firing case, while Behbal Kalan firing case was entrusted to IG Arun Pal Singh and SSP Satinder Singh. In March 2019, SIT filed its first chargesheet naming former Moga SSP Charanjit Singh Sharma as accused in the case. This chargesheet was filed by the SIT team led by Satinder Singh (who is now member of new SIT), which was working separately from Kunwar Vijay’s team. After SIT probe remained standstill in Behbal Kalan firing case for a year, the investigation of this case was also entrusted to Kunwar Vijay in June 2020 after which SIT made several arrests and named police officers, including former director general of police Sumedh Singh Saini and suspended IG Paramraj Singh Umranangal, as accused in this case. Apart from Saini and Umranangal, the SIT had named former Moga SSP Sharma, SP Bikramjit Singh, former Bajakhana SHO Amarjit Singh Kular, Faridkot-based lawyer Sohail Singh Brar and Moga-based car dealer Pankal Bansal as accused. While one accused, inspector Pardeep Singh, has turned approver in this case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ig-naunihal-to-head-new-sit-on-behbal-kalan-firing-case-101621193648215.html
17-05-2021||Chandigarh||Six dera followers arrested for 2015 Bargari sacrilege||The Punjab Police special investigation team (SIT), led by inspector general of police (IGP), border range, Surinder Pal Singh Parmar, on Sunday arrested six Dera Sacha Sauda followers in connection with sacrilege incident at Bargari village in Faridkot district that had sparked statewide protests in 2015.Confirming the arrests, an SIT official, not wanting to be named, said the accused were identified as Sukhjinder Singh, alias Sunny, Nishan Singh, Ranjit Singh, alias Bhola, and Pardeep Kumar, all resident of Kotkapura, Shakti Singh of Daggu Romana village and Baljit Singh of Sikhanwala village.Sukhjinder, Shakti, Ranjit and Baljeet were also arrested in another sacrilege case in which two derogatory posters were pasted near the Bargari gurdwara on the intervening night of September 24-25, 2015. Both cases were registered at the Bajakhana police station.The SIT probe has found that the accused had scattered the torn pages of a “bir” (copy of Guru Granth Sahib), which was stolen from the Burj Jawahar Singh Wala gurdwara on October 12, 2015, at Bargari. The derogatory posters were also pasted by them near the Bargari gurdwara, claimed the SIT.The accused will be produced in the Faridkot court on Monday for securing their police remand, said the SIT official. In 2018, the Khatra-led SIT had arrested more than 20 followers of the Sirsa-based dera, including Mohinder Pal Bittu, who was killed in the Nabha jail in 2019, in connection with two other sacrilege incidents and rioting in Punjab in 2015. The SIT claims the dera followers had confessed to the crime.The Akali-BJP government, led by Parkash Singh Badal, had handed over the probe into the three sacrilege incidents to the Central Bureau of Investigation. The first case pertained to the theft of the bir (copy of Guru Granth Sahib) from Burj Jawahar Singh Wala village near Kotkapura in Faridkot district on June 1, 2015. The second was the putting up of derogatory posters at Bargari village on September 25, 2015; and the third was the sacrilege of Guru Granth Sahib as torn pages of the bir were found scattered in front of a gurdwara at Bargari on October 12, 2015. In July 2019, the CBI had filed a closure report in three sacrilege cases.The Congress government, led by Captain Amarinder Singh, however, took back the cases from the CBI and handed over the probe to the SIT led by Khatra. In July last year, the SIT named jailed Sirsa-based Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh, national committee members of dera --- Sandeep Bretta, Pardeep Kler and Harsh Dhuri --- as accused and filed a chargesheet against seven dera followers in a case relating to the theft of the “bir”.In January this year, Punjab and Haryana high court asked the state government to replace the head of the SIT probing 2015 sacrilege cases, after which IG Parmar was appointed as the new chief. The HC had also directed CBI to handover all the case files and asked SIT to file a supplementary chargesheet after taking into account of the evidence filed by CBI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/six-dera-followers-arrested-for-2015-bargari-sacrilege-101621193468363.html
17-05-2021||Chandigarh||Anaemia primary cause of 3-year-old Covid patient’s death in Ludhiana: Civil surgeon||A day after a three-year-old Covid patient died, health authorities confirmed acute anaemia as the cause of death.Civil surgeon Dr Kiran Ahluwallia Gill said a team of doctors conducted a review and established that the girl, Mansi, died of acute anaemia. However, as she was also Covid positive, she was buried following safety protocols on Saturday evening.She added that the child’s parents had been tested and found negative for the virus.Unable to come to terms with the loss of his youngest child, Ram Kumar, 27, who hails from Ayodhya in Uttar Pradesh and lives in Harbanspura, also has his depleted bank balance riding heavy on his mind.The tragedy-struck family spent all their savings in just a week since the child was found positive on May 8. “I used to earn ₹9,000 a month at a shop, but lost my job two months ago amid the pandemic. My savings were not enough for my daughter’s treatment, so donations from philanthropists helped raise ₹1.67 lakh, but still she could not be saved,” said an inconsolable Kumar. “Her health deteriorated on May 8 and through some tests we learnt that her haemoglobin had dropped, which had resulted in water retention and swelling. I took her to Krishna Charitable Hospital, where she tested positive for Covid, which rose the treatment cost,” he added.“On Saturday morning, she was arm wrestling with me and asked me and my wife for toffees. We were hoping that she will be discharged soon, but suddenly her condition worsened and she passed away in front of our eyes,” the distraught father rued.Heart-rending scenes were witnessed at the crematorium in Civil Lines where the three-year-old was buried in the presence of her parents and her five-year-old brother, who kept trying to rush towards his younger sister’s body wrapped in a protective suit.Burying a three-year-old was possibly the most difficult task he had ever performed, said Mandeep Kumar Guddu, a worker at the crematorium, who has performed over 1,000 last rites.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/anaemia-primary-cause-of-3-year-old-covid-patient-s-death-in-ludhiana-civil-surgeon-101621193289394.html
17-05-2021||Chandigarh||Kotkapura firing case: Enough evidence against Badals, but they are being protected, says Sidhu||Congress leader and former minister Navjot Singh Sidhu on Sunday claimed that there was enough evidence against the Badals in the 2015 Kotkapura police firing case, but they were being protected. Responding to Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal’s statement asking him and others to share evidence they claim to have on sacrilege cases, Sidhu said he had shared a video footage in public domain about three years ago, which showed the role of police acting at the behest of the Badals. “Enough Cognizable Evidence available against Badals, says Justice (Retd.) Ranjit Singh Inquiry Commission Report. In Sept 2018, I shared in Public Domain, statements by Doctors, Ex-DGP & Civil Administration that prove actions at Kotkapura Chowk were consentual with then CM (sic),” he posted on Twitter with a nine-minute video of his statement made at that time. He further said that this CCTV footage was hidden from Justice (Retd) Zora Singh Inquiry Commission during the Badal regime, but was later dug up by Justice Ranjit Singh. “I brought this footage to public domain, which shows role of police, acting on behest of the Badals You are guilty but being protected! (sic),” he said in another tweet. On Saturday, Sukhbir had asked the Congress leaders, including Sidhu, and their “open and secret allies” claiming to have concrete proof on who planned, sponsored and executed the unforgivable sacrilege against Guru Granth Sahib to publicly place that evidence before the Khalsa panth, court, SIT and the people in general. Sidhu has been targeting his own government ever since the Punjab and Haryana high court quashed the SIT report in the police firing case last month. He has also accused chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh of shielding the Badal family.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/kotkapura-firing-case-enough-evidence-against-badals-but-they-are-being-protected-says-sidhu-101621193288126.html
17-05-2021||Chandigarh||MLA Bains, Gosha come to blows at launch of road project in Ludhiana||Lok Insaaf Party supremo Simarjeet Singh Bains and Youth Akali Dal district president Gurdeep Singh Gosha, along with their supporters, exchanged blows during the foundation-stone event for a road’s construction in Janta Nagar on Sunday. The clash took place when Bains and his supporters reached Janta Nagar to lay the foundation stone. In the meantime, Gosha, who was distributing langar in the area, arrived at the spot, accusing Bains of taking undue credit for the project.Things suddenly turned ugly as supporters of both leaders threw punches and hurled abuses, amid tossing of turbans, which was captured on video by onlookers.Amid sloganeering from both sides, police remained mute spectators.Later, the Division Number 6 police lodged an FIR against Bains, his son Ajay Preet Singh, Gosha and 60 others for curfew violations. Both groups also reached the police station and filed cross complaints.Amanot Singh Gohalwaria, son of former SAD mayor Harcharan Singh Gohalwaria, claimed that his father had got the work order cleared for the construction of the road from Janta Nagar to Military Camp in 2016. “But, due to the assembly and MC elections, and subsequent lockdown in 2020, the work was stalled. Now, when the work was going to begin, MLA Bains arrived there for inauguration for publicity,” he added.“Members of both groups violated curfew guidelines by assembling in the area in large numbers. Apart from Gosha, MLA Bains and his son, some of those booked are Swaran Singh Makkar, Amrik Singh Gogi, Arjan Singh Cheema, Sikander Singh Pannu, Harjot Kang, Amanjot Singh, Mandeep Singh and Prabhjit Singh Pandher,” said inspector Amandeep Singh Brar, station house officer (SHO), Division Number 6 police station. He said more sections will be added in the FIR after verifying complaints of both groups.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mla-bains-gosha-come-to-blows-at-launch-of-road-project-in-ludhiana-101621192988184.html
17-05-2021||Chandigarh||Vax shortage brings drive to halt in Punjab’s Mohali district||The Covid-19 vaccination drive in Mohali has taken a severe hit due to shortage of doses for the past five days, forcing the health authorities to close all their camps in the district.Even the two drive-through facilities that were started to an overwhelming response on May 12 have been closed for the past two days.From around 10,000 doses being administered daily till about a week back, only 788 people were inoculated on Sunday, that too mostly at the two private hospitals – Max and Fortis – which had independently launched the drive for 18-44 years age group earlier this month.“For the past four days, we have not got any vaccine from the central government, forcing us to close all our camps in the district. We organised the drive only at the civil hospital in Phase 6 on Sunday, that too for just a few hours,” said district epidemiologist Dr Vikrant Nagra.Nagra said the district had received 11,000 doses from the state government for the 18-44 age group, and only three-day stock is remaining. “As of now, we are administering the vaccine only to construction workers besides families of health workers and frontline workers in this category. We are hoping things will improve in the coming days,” he said.Has been leading so farTill May 13, vaccines were being administered at 55 centres in Mohali, including 50 government centres and five private hospitals. According to data made available by the district administration, the health authorities have administered around 3.33 lakh doses till May 16, which is among the highest in Punjab.In fact, Mohali has shown the way by launching the first drive-in vaccination and starting a helpline to provide free cab service to senior citizens going to get jabbed. Besides providing the vaccine at government centres, the Mohali administration had also been holding special camps at industrial units, corporate offices and residential areas, which has helped it achieve highest inoculations in the tricity.However, the situation has changed in the past few days. Manoj Dass, a social worker based in Zirakpur, said: “For the past three days, no camp has been organised for any age group here. We are approaching the authorities, but to no avail. People are now going to Chandigarh and Panchkula to get vaccinated.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/vax-shortage-brings-drive-to-halt-in-punjab-s-mohali-district-101621192808903.html
17-05-2021||Chandigarh||Contagion wipes out 20 more lives in Ludhiana, daily cases drop below 1,000 after 16 days||The Covid-19 pandemic claimed 20 more lives on Sunday, youngest among them a 35-year-old man from Textile Colony.For the past two days, the daily deaths had stayed below 20 after steadily rising for five days since May 9, touching the all-time high of 30 twice, on May 10 and 11.However, in some respite, the fresh cases on Sunday dropped below the 1,000 mark for the first time since April 30, when 789 people had tested positive.The 942 cases on Sunday pushed the district’s caseload to 75,815, of which 13,217 patients are still under treatment, the highest since the pandemic broke out in March last year.As many as 60,858 patients have successfully beaten the virus in Ludhiana through treatment at various hospitals and in home isolation, and 1,720 people have died.Currently, 52 patients are on ventilator support, of whom, 28 are from Ludhiana, and 24 from other districts and states. Among those who died on Sunday were 10 women and an equal number of men, the oldest being a 78-year-old man from Green Field.At 11, the majority were aged between 50 and 70, four in their 30s and 40s, while five were over 70 years old.Vaccination sites for MondayLUDHIANA Vaccinations for comorbid people and health workers’ family members in the 18-44 age group will be held at various government schools on Monday.These include schools at Sekhewal, Indrapuri, Jamalpur, Madhopuri, Kesar Gunj Chowk, Kundanpuri, Civil Lines, Haibowal Kalan, Dholewal, Kot Mangal Singh, Shimlapuri, Midha Chowk, Jawahar Nagar, Jagraon, Khanna, Samrala, Roorian Maloud village, Macchiwara, Manupur, Gurusar Sudhar, Koom Kalan, Sidhwan Bet, Mansuran, Hathur, Sahnewal and Dehlon. Centres are also set up at Indoor Stadium, Pakhowal Road; Channa Devi School, Salem Tabri; Green Land School, Chandigarh Road; and Ajitsar Government Girls School, Raikot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/contagion-wipes-out-20-more-lives-in-ludhiana-daily-cases-drop-below-1-000-after-16-days-101621192689494.html
17-05-2021||Chandigarh||30 more succumb to Covid in Chandigarh tricity||Even as number of daily Covid-19 cases has seen a decline over the past one week, the pandemic continues to take its toll on the tricity, as 30 more patients succumbed to the virus on Sunday.This was only the third time that the number of fatalities touched this grim milestone. While as many people had died on May 9, the peak was recorded on May 5, with 38 deaths. The sudden surge comes a day after the tricity gave a sigh of relief as the number of deaths dropped to 19, and below 20 for the first time in a week.While Mohali recorded 12 deaths on Sunday, 10 people died in Chandigarh, and eight in Panchkula, which is also its all-time high that was previously reported on May 12.“The surge in fatalities is witnessed after the spike in cases. The patients who are critical tend to remain under hospitalisation for a longer duration. So, generally there is a difference of two weeks between the peak of cases and deaths,” said Dr VK Nagpal, joint director, Chandigarh health department.Meanwhile, after registering a consistent drop in the number of cases from the peak of 2,612 on May 10 to 1,405 on May 15, the tricity recorded a slight uptick with 1,491 people testing positive. Chandigarh reported 664 cases, followed by 542 in Mohali and 285 in Panchkula. Active case load drops to 18,505With more people being cured and discharged than those testing positive, the active case load in the tricity dropped to 18,505 from 20,500 a day before.In Chandigarh, 7,644 cases remain active, down from 7,847 on Saturday. Among the 10 dead, three were under the age of 60. The toll has reached 635, with 146 reported this month. Of 55,367 people tested positive so far, 47,088 have recovered, including 857 discharged on Sunday. Mohali district has reported 60,601 cases so far. Its death toll has climbed to 760, with 166 people succumbing in just 16 days this month as compared to 159 throughout April. All the 12 who died on Sunday were senior citizens with comorbidities, said the civil surgeon.With 1,923 patients discharged on Sunday, the total has climbed to 51,123 while the active case load has dropped to 8,717 from 10,109 on Saturday.In Panchkula, a 30-year-old man from Mirpur was among the eight dead. While five were above the age of 75, two were in the 45-55 age group. The toll has reached 285, with 78 dead this month. Of the 27,566 people tested positive so far, 24,867 have recovered. The number of active cases stands at 2,144, down from 2,544 on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/30-more-succumb-to-covid-in-chandigarh-tricity-101621192568204.html
17-05-2021||Chandigarh||Protest over Khattar’s visit: Farmers block major highways after clashing with cops in Hisar||Rohtak/Karnal/Ambala/Chandigarh: Hours after Haryana Police resorted to lathicharge and lobbed tear gas shells to disperse a group of farmers who tried to march towards the venue where Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar was scheduled to inaugurate a Covid hospital in Hisar on Sunday, farmers blocked major state and national highways across the state. While farmers claimed that over 50 of them sustained injuries in the lathicharge, a government spokesperson said over 20 policemen, including a DSP and five women cops, were also injured. Protesters blocked the Delhi-Chandigarh National Highway 44 at Bastara in Karnal, the Hisar-Chandigarh highway in Kaithal, Kurukshetra-Pehowa-Paitala, Kurukshetra-Kaithal highway, NH-44 on Ambala-Patiala border , NH-73 on Ambala-Yamunanagar highway and toll plazas in Karnal, Panipat and Shahbad, for two hours from 5pm to 7pm, forcing the authorities to divert traffic to link roads. In Hisar, police claimed some farmers hurled stones at them when they tried to stop them. Five police vehicles were also damaged by the protesters, they said. Miscreants broke the barricades: Cops “The miscreants broke the barricade installed on the canal bridge and threw it into the water. They also attacked DSP Abhimanyu Lohan under the Jindal overbridge. The injured cops are being treated at the civil hospital,” a police spokesperson said. “Upon entering Chaudhary Devi Lal Sanjivani Hospital complex, the miscreants tried to run a tractor over policemen, thereby injuring them,” the spokesperson said, adding that five police vehicles were also damaged. “The miscreants tried to enter the Covid hospital even after the inauguration was over,” he added. Protesters also blocked the movement of police vehicles and said they will continue to protest until the farmer leaders asked them to disperse. “Why did the CM have to visit Hisar to inaugurate the hospital, he could have done it virtually,” asked Haryana BKU (Charuni) president Gurnam Singh Charuni. “The police resorted to lathi-charge and used tear gas shells, besides using plastic bullets to disperse the farmers in Hisar. Many farmers received injuries,” Charuni said, alleging that despite the state restricting gatherings hundreds of people were allowed to gather for the hospital inauguration. Next course of action Hisar meet: Charuni Charuni said the farm leaders had called a meeting in Hisar to decide further course of action. “ We will clear the road for ambulances, military convoys, fire brigade and tankers carrying oxygen. Farmers from Ramayana toll plaza will start marching towards the office of the Hisar IG and if our grievances are not accepted, we will start a dharna outside police stations across the state,” Charuni added. BKU leader Rakesh Tikait said they had asked the Hisar IG to release 85 farmers detained by the police. Karnal superintendent of police Ganga Ram Punia said that traffic had been diverted from the NH 44 via link roads. He said that there were no reports of violence, but the police have been deployed to deal with any law-and-order situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/protest-over-khattar-s-visit-farmers-block-major-highways-after-clashing-with-cops-in-hisar-101621192509499.html
17-05-2021||Chandigarh||Meet Panchkula MC staffer who has overseen cremation of over 700 Covid-19 victims||By 1 in the afternoon, 14 bodies are halfway through cremation, five have just been set ablaze, three more pyres are being prepared, while two bodies covered in white lay at some distance.At the gate of the cremation ground in Sector 28, Panchkula, one more body of a Covid-19 victim lies in an ambulance as the driver asks directions to the graveyard.The flow of bodies does not end here. And the supervisor, Surinder Singh, walks among the corpses and pyres without fear…. or even a PPE kit.Singh, and his team members, say working with a PPE kit on, amid the heat and flames rising from the pyres, gets too difficult.“In March 2020, I cremated the first body of a woman who died of Covid-19. Since then, I have been assigned the task of cremating all Covid-19 bodies,” says the 28-year-old staffer of the Panchkula municipal corporation (MC).Since March last year, Singh has helped cremate over 700 bodies, which belonged not only to Panchkula residents but also to those who came from other states to get treatment here but lost the battle to Covid-19. Of these 700, as many as 200 were created in the month of May alone, Singh adds.A day in the life of a crematorAt 8am, Singh leaves from his house in Mohali and reaches the mortuary of the Sector-6 civil hospital in Panchkula. After taking the details of the corpses, he calls their families and coordinates for cremation or burial. He then visits other hospitals in Panchkula, gathering details of others who have died of the virus.While commuting from one hospital to another, Singh arranges for ambulances to ferry the dead to the cremation ground, meanwhile instructing his team to prepare the pyres.“Last year, there were only one or two cremations a day, or weeks would pass without one. But now we are cremating at least 20 bodies a day,” says Singh, whose phone doesn’t stop ringing.Singh earns only ₹14,000 a month, but has been working 24x7 without an off for a year. “I do get stressed at times so I pray. Initially, I was unable to sleep, but now I feel numb. I have small kids, elderly parents and a wife, but it’s a service and I cannot say no to it,” he says.“I don’t even feel like eating here. People are dying, how can one eat?” asks Singh, who reaches home by 9pm every day.A man in white, who introduces himself as an army officer and one of the family members of a victim, is full of praises for Singh: “I have never seen such a dedicated man. He is on duty 24x7.”‘Hasn’t taken off in a year’The assistant sanitary inspector, Ajay Kumar Sood, who is also the in-charge, says: “Surinder has not taken a single off in the last one year. He is a very dedicated and hardworking employee.”Former MC commissioner RK Singh says: “The team is very dedicated. During these tough times, we have been holding meetings to boost their morale and how they should work without getting emotionally impacted.”Last year, four helpers were assigned to Singh; the number was reduced to two, but it has again been increased to six. One of them is Rahul, a 27-year-old resident of Gandhi Colony, Panchkula, who has also been working here since the pandemic began. A daily wager and father to three daughters, Rahul says that it is work, which has to be done: “If we won’t, then who will?”Wearing only N-95 masks, Surinder and Rahul get up to burn the two bodies in white, that have been awaiting their turn.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/meet-panchkula-mc-staffer-who-has-overseen-cremation-of-over-700-covid-19-victims-101621192389818.html
17-05-2021||Chandigarh||Testing levels drop by 20% amid raging pandemic in Chandigarh||Even though the weekly Covid-19 cases in the city reached record numbers in the first week of May, the number of tests conducted in the subsequent week showed a decline, as suggested by the data collated from Chandigarh administration’s daily bulletin.A decrease of around 20% has been witnessed in the number of tests done on a weekly basis even though Chandigarh remains among the worst affected states and union territories (UTs) in the country in terms of test positivity rate.Between May 2-8, when the city recorded 5,901 cases, 25,372 tests were conducted. Subsequently between May 9-15, with 4,496 cases, the tests dipped to 20,326.The central government has advised states and UTs with over 10% positivity rate to continue with “stringent containment” even if they are witnessing a declining trend in the pandemic.Chandigarh’s weekly positivity rate has been above 20% for the last five weeks suggesting that every fifth person being tested has contracted the infection.Former director of the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) and health adviser to the Punjab government, Dr KK Talwar, said, “Fewer tests mean the real number of positive cases will not come to the fore. In Punjab, the positivity rate has declined without any decline in the number of tests. The indicator of positivity rate suitably suggests the manner in which the number of tests should be conducted.”Former head of the department of community medicine and school of public health at PGIMER, Dr Rajesh Kumar, said, “Testing levels should remain high so that cases are detected and isolated at the earliest. This will stop the infection from spreading and bring the pandemic in control. Even though it appears that the infection spread is being controlled, more contacts should be brought under the ambit of testing. Testing levels should not drop at this crucial juncture.”Dip in testing due to lockdown restrictions: AdmnAuthorities, however, say that the dip in testing levels can be linked to the restrictions owing to the lockdown, which should have resulted in a decreased demand for testing.UT adviser Manoj Parida said, “The lockdown measures have resulted in control of the infection transmission, which has resulted in lesser testing. However, the testing levels should not drop and we will improve them further.”UT health secretary Arun Gupta said that the dip, of around 500 tests daily, was from non-targeted testing: “There is no compromise on testing of contacts and those with symptoms. The decrease in tests is from the proportion that is randomly done and no case in which there is a minute suspicion is being denied the facility.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/testing-levels-drop-by-20-amid-raging-pandemic-in-chandigarh-101621192388731.html
17-05-2021||Chandigarh||Oxygen concentrator bank started in Ludhiana for Covid patients at home||The Red Cross Society has started an oxygen concentrator bank for Covid-19 patients getting treated at home.Inaugurating the bank at the Red Cross Bhawan on Sunday, deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma said the bank had been set up with 25 oxygen concentrators, which will be given to patients under home isolation.The concentrators, donated by an NGO, can be borrowed against a daily rent of ₹200 via an application on www.ludhiana.nic.in. A doctor’s prescription and a refundable security of ₹25,000, either by draft or cheque made out to the Red Cross Society, are mandatory. The applicant will be informed through phone within 12 hours if the application is accepted. The concentrator can be procured from the Red Cross Bhawan between 9am and 5pm, and patients can also contact the helplines 94173-76655, 98784-50219 and 81465-55493.The deputy commissioner said the concentrators will prove useful in the treatment of patients with mild symptoms and help reduce the caseload on hospitals.Further, on the advice of a seven-member committee of doctors, hospitals have been allowed to give oxygen cylinders to cured patients for post-infection concerns. The DC said the administration will supply the oxygen to the hospitals as per demand, adding that Ludhiana had ample supply of the life-saving gas currently.He was accompanied by additional deputy commissioner (D) Sandeep Kumar and civil surgeon Dr Kiran Ahluwalia Gill.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/oxygen-concentrator-bank-started-in-ludhiana-for-covid-patients-at-home-101621192268769.html
17-05-2021||Chandigarh||Double mutant Covid variant found in 22% PGIMER samples||The highly transmissible B.1.617 variant of Covid-19 has been found in five of the 23 samples sent by the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) to the National Centre of Disease Control, New Delhi, for genome sequencing recently. First detected in India last October and described in late March by the misnomer “double mutant”, it was classified as a “variant of concern” globally by WHO last Monday.“Reports of sequencing of SARS-CoV-2 from 23 nasopharyngeal swab samples of Covid-19 patients sent from PGIMER were received on May 13 from NCDC, New Delhi. The presence of the double mutant B.1.617 variant having the signature mutations L452R and E484Q has been confirmed in 22% (5/23) of the samples after sequencing,” said Dr Jagat Ram.Vaccine-induced antibodies are less potent in neutralising this variant, and the surge in cases during the second wave of the pandemic has somewhat been attributed to it, he said, adding that it has been found in more than 40 countries.Of the other samples, the UK variant B.1.1.7, which is also a “variant of concern” and is associated with high transmissibility was found in 39% (9/23) samples. Earlier in April, too, as many as 70% of the 60 samples sent by the PGIMER for genome sequencing turned positive for this variant. “Considering the high transmission rates of the new variants, citizens should follow Covid-appropriate behaviour by wearing masks, maintaining social distance and frequently using sanitiser or washing hands,” said Dr Jagat Ram.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/double-mutant-covid-variant-found-in-22-pgimer-samples-101621192100334.html
17-05-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad administration plans paediatric ICU ward for children||Ghaziabad: Anticipating another wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, the Ghaziabad administration has planned to set up small paediatric intensive care units(PICU) wards, having five beds each, in both private and government hospitals for treatment of children. According to official records obtained from the district health department, about 677 children upto the age of 10 were infected with Covid-19 between April 1 to May 13 this year. While reviewing the situation, the Uttar Pradesh government appointed IAS Senthil Pandian C as the nodal officer and gave directions to the hospitals to come up with such wards. “The paediatric ICU wards will come up in major private and government hospitals, with five beds each, that will be reserved for the treatment of children who require admission, in case they get infected,” said Pandian. The two government hospitals on the list also include Sanjay Nagar Combined District Hospital and government- acquired Santosh Medical College. In this context, the UP chief minister also gave directions on Saturday to all district hospital and medical colleges in the state to come up with PICU on priority basis . “The CM directed that creation of PICU and training of staff, like paediatricians, technicians and medical staff, should go on simultaneously. He also directed that two community health centres in each district should also come up with PICU and separate staff should be made available for their operation. All the women hospitals in each district should be roped in for treatment of women and children,” read a statement issued by the chief minister’s office on Saturday. According to state control room figures, the number of active cases stood at 309 on March 31, which spiked to 6,645 on April 30. As on Saturday (May 15) , there were 4,320 active cases. “One of the major factors that has helped bring cases under control is starting early treatment and distributing a medical kit, containing essential medicines required in Covid-19 treatment, free of cost. About 60,000 medical kits have been distributed so far. We are also taking other initiatives to control the infection in the rural areas,” said Ghaziabad district magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey. The kit distribution, which started on April 27, sees around 5,000 disbursal per day on an average. It contains prescription, along with medicines for patients having symptoms and also for those staying in home-isolation. To help Covid-19 patients in rural areas, the administration has also decided to open up oxygen cylinder refilling facilities at Dasna, Loni, Modinagar, Muradnagar and Khoda. The Ghaziabad municipal corporation is already providing the refilling facility to patients with as many as 1,543 cylinders refilled and handed over to patients between May 5 and May 14. “Similar facilities, each equipped to refill 25-30 cylinders, will also come up at the local body offices at Dasna, Loni, Muradnagar and Khoda. We have also decided to open referral facilities at Muradnagar, Loni, Dasna and Modinagar with 25-30 beds in the first batch. The facilities will be made operational in the next two to three days,” said Krishna Karunesh, officiating district magistrate. Karunesh added efforts are also on to identify panchayat clusters in bigger villages where isolation centres with 5-10 beds can come up and oxygen cylinders can be placed for patients. In rural areas, April has seen the maximum cases with 644 in Loni, 451 in Modinagar, 445 in Muradnagar, 110 in Khoda and 57 in Bhojpur,besides 406 in Dasna.The Covid-19 cases have increased further in the rural area so far in May. The data compiled for the first 11 days of May by the health department indicates that there were 262 cases in Loni, 557 in Modinagar, 480 in Muradnagar, 71 in Khoda and 80 in Bhojpur besides 356 in Dasna.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-administration-plans-paediatric-icu-ward-for-children-101621191127548.html
17-05-2021||Other||Readying paediatric ICU beds to tackle possible third wave of Covid-19: Adityanath||Noida: Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday announced that all districts in the state will be equipped with adequate paediatric intensive care unit (PICU) beds to provide exclusive care and treatment to children needing treatment for the coronavirus disease. The CM’s statement comes in the wake of predictions that a third wave of Covid-19 is possible which will likely affect children. Addressing the media at the NTPC Power Management Institute in Noida’s Sector 16A, Adityanath said his government is all set to tackle the new wave, like the state handled encephalitis cases in the state. “From 1977 to 2017, the average annual fatalities due to encephalitis were nearly 1,500. But, it was due to proper coordination between all departments concerned that the same have been reduced now to double digits. The training of health officials for working in PICUs has already begun and very soon, all government hospitals, community health centres (CHCs) and primary health centres (PHCs) will have an adequate number of PICU beds,” he said. Replying to a query about “inaccessibility” of Co-WIN portal, especially in rural areas, the CM said that the government has decided to inoculate people in rural areas through common service centres (CSCs). “The staff of these CHCs will go door-to-door and compile their details with the district vaccination department, so as to set up a vaccination centre in their vicinity. It can be CHCs, PHCs, schools, panchayat buildings or any public place – which have waiting, vaccination and observation rooms,” the CM said. He also said that pre-bids have already been floated to ensure 100% vaccine coverage in the state. “As many as six companies have turned up with some queries, which are being replied to by officials concerned. We’ve so far given over 1.5 crore doses of vaccines in the first and second jabs to beneficiaries. Compliance of the central government’s directions in inoculating people over 45 years of age has also yielded positive results, as wastage of vaccines has now reduced to two-three per cent, as compared to 22% wastage during the drive of healthcare workers. From Monday, a massive vaccination drive for people of 18 to 44 years will begin in 22 districts,” he said. He added that taking serious note of post-Covid diseases such as black fungus that damage the eyes, the health department has been asked to provide all essential drugs to every hospital in the state. Laying stress on the need to create awareness about testing, sanitisation and social distancing among people in rural areas, Adityanath said that during his visits to remote villages since May 7 in many districts, it was found that people are hesitant to go to CHCs and PHCs for Covid-19 testing. “The job of rapid response teams (RRT) begins here and they have adroitly handled the situation there. The state has 58,055 village panchayats and over 1,200 wards for over one lakh revenue villages. The vigilance committee of the respective area screens the patients with ILI symptoms, besides asymptomatic ones. They make their list and provide it to the integrated Covid command centre (ICCC) in their respective district headquarters, as well as to the people’s representative. On the basis of this list, the RRT conducts testing in those areas. The ICCC sends the updated details of testing, home isolation, hospitalisation to the CM helpline thrice a day,” he said. He said that apart from conducting door-to-door rapid antigen testing, they have also distributed over three lakh medical kits, comprising all essential medicines, in these areas. “As a result of this, while the case positivity rate (CPR) of the state has come down to five per cent from 22%, the case fatality rate (CFR) is around one per cent. In terms of testing, UP leads with 4.5 crore testing – which is much ahead of three crore testing in Maharashtra. It is the effort of our officials that despite having a huge population – about whom the experts had predicted that there would be nearly one lakh fresh caseload every day mid-April to mid-May, UP recorded only 10,600 cases on May 16. Till date, we have 1.63 lakh active cases, out of which only 42,000 are in hospitals. The remaining are under home isolation and are being monitored by the doctors,” he said. Giving the details of beds in the state, the chief minister said that at present the state has 80,000 beds, including 72,000 in government hospitals. “Besides, we have 2,200 ambulances and 350 life-saving ambulances for coronavirus disease patients,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/readying-paediatric-icu-beds-to-tackle-possible-third-wave-of-covid-19-adityanath-101621191067540.html
17-05-2021||Noida||Second wave of Covid-19 under control, says UP CM||Ghaziabad: Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath, during his visit to Ghaziabad Sunday evening, said that the present wave of Covid-19 infections in the state is under control and directed officials to continue with the strategy of aggressively tracing, testing and treating patients. The CM also focussed on increasing the role of “nigrani samitis” in both rural and urban areas.The nigrani samitis are groups of officials, local councillors and other public representatives who operate in respective areas to deal with Covid-related issues. Speaking at the district headquarters in Ghaziabad, the CM said that during the first wave of Covid last year, there were apprehensions that would be one lakh active cases in the state in August and September.“However, with collective efforts, we were able to control the upper limit of active cases to a maximum of about 67,000, while the most cases seen in a day were 7,200. In the first wave, there was more need of L1 category Covid beds, which we created to the tune of 1.16 lakh, while 23,000 beds of L2/L3 category were also created,” the CM said. The L1, L2 and L3 hospitals were created last year as part of the UP government’s three-tier structure to deal with Covid cases. The L1 hospitals are generally for asymptomatic cases while L2 hospitals deal with patients having mild to moderate symptoms. The L3 hospitals deal with severe Covid cases. The CM said that experts had opined that after April 25, UP will see one lakh new cases per day. “But again we have been able to control the second wave and the peak is also under control. Now, we have the capacity to conduct two-and-a-half to three lakh tests per day and demand for L1 category beds is low. So, during this wave, we created another 80,000 L2/L3 category beds as needed,” the CM added. He said that on April 24, there were 38,055 cases per day in UP, which was the highest in this wave, and now the state has about 10,682 daily cases (as of May 16, as per state control room records). He added that the state launched an aggressive strategy of tracing, testing and treating which has reduced the number of active cases. “We conducted 1.25 lakh tests per day in March and at present this capacity has been doubled. We are also working on a plan for creation of separate wards for post-Covid complications for recovered patients and their treatment will be done free-of-cost. To increase the supply of oxygen, nine oxygen plants are being constructed in Ghaziabad and overall, 35 oxygen plants are being constructed in Meerut division (including Ghaziabad and GB Nagar),” the CM added. He said that he visited Bhowapur village in Ghaziabad during his visit and said the focus is now on rural areas where people from low-income groups, Divyangs and others will be able to get their vaccination registration done through common service centres. The district officials said that the CM directed that the works done by nigrani samitis – about 447 in Ghaziabad including 161 in rural areas – should continue. “The CM has given directions that the works should continue. We have also decided that the nigrani samitis will now speak daily to the Integrated Covid Command and Control Centre and will also hold daily meetings and the decisions will be documented on a daily basis. We are also roping in our booth level officers to filter out suspected cases and these efforts will continue,” Ghaziabad district magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey, said.The officials of the health department said that the CM also stressed that the free-of-cost medical kit distribution should also be done through the nigrani samitis who are in direct touch with local residents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/second-wave-of-covid-19-under-control-says-up-cm-101621191007509.html
17-05-2021||Other||Maratha quota: BJP panel to review verdict; warns Maharashtra govt of stir||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has formed a committee under its Maharashtra unit chief Chandrakant Patil to review the Maratha reservation verdict, stating that it was their bid to ensure that the community gets back the reservation that was struck down by Supreme Court (SC). The committee comprises of leader of Opposition in legislative Council Pravin Darekar, Ashish Shelar and Narendra Patil, among others. Patil said that BJP was also appointing a committee of legal experts to “expose” MVA government over its faulty handling of the reservation case. The party has also announced to support protests by the community and has warned the state government that the stir would be intensified once the second wave of Covid-19 subsides. Patil, after the first meeting of the expert committee on Sunday, said that the party would back Marathas with full strength. “After the reservation was scrapped by the top court, the community has been feeling helpless. But our party will stand by them in full support. MVA government is expecting protests by the community to die down because of the pandemic and lockdown. BJP will support and participate in the protest without our banner or political agenda,” he said. Blaming the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) for the “poor handling” of the reservation case in the Apex court, BJP leaders said that the 569-page SC judgment has pointed out to many loopholes left behind by the state government during the hearing. “The Congress and NCP (Nationalist Congress Party) never intended to give the reservation to Marathas. Their government has systematically murdered the reservation given by the previous [BJP-led] Devendra Fadnavis government. Our government could safeguard it in the Bombay high court and even for a long period, in SC too. It was because of the inept handling by MVA government that the reservation has been struck down,” Patil said. He also demanded that the state government file a review petition in SC, requesting the Apex court a reconsideration of its verdict on the Gaikwad Commission report and 50% cap on reservation. He said that if the state government failed to do so, it will have to again attend the exercise of proving the backwardness of the community by constituting a new commission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/maratha-quota-bjp-panel-to-review-verdict-warns-maharashtra-govt-of-stir-101621190407540.html
17-05-2021||Other||35-year-old Mumbai man held for raping online friend for three years||A 35-year-old man was booked by Samata Nagar police on Saturday for allegedly raping a woman repeatedly for three years by blackmailing her. According to the police officers, the woman in her complaint stated that in 2018, she had met the accused on social media and began chatting with him online. The two became friends and the accused later invited her to his Kandivli (East) house on the pretext of discussing a family problem, the woman further told the police. On reaching his house, the man told the complainant that his wife had left him after they had a fight earlier that day. “The accused then prepared tea for the survivor which was spiked,” said a police officer. After she lost her consciousness, the accused raped her and shot a video of the act. The police said, when the woman regained consciousness, she realised that she was naked. When she confronted the accused, the man showed her the video and threatened to release it online if she filed a complaint. For the past three years, the accused had allegedly been raping the woman at various places by threatening to post her video. On Saturday, when the woman could not take it anymore, she approached Samata Nagar police and registered a complaint against the accused. Based on the woman’s statement, the police booked the man for rape and blackmail under the relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and are verifying the case. “We have registered the case and are investigating to find out the sequence of events. We have seized two phones from the accused and have given it to the forensic team to extract the video and other details, such as the couple’s chats, etc,” said the officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/35yearold-mumbai-man-held-for-raping-online-friend-for-three-years-101621190347577.html
17-05-2021||Other||Ulhasnagar slab collapse: Survivors left without shelter, bldg to be razed||A day after the slab of Mohini Palace in Ulhasnagar collapsed killing five and injuring 10 residents, the civic body has decided to demolish the building from Monday. On Sunday, the survivors gathered at the building premises, as they lost their shelter and have no place to go. They were joined by the families of the victims. Among them was the family of Milind Parche who, along with his 60-year-old grandmother died in the incident. “Milind and his grandmother were sleeping when the incident took place. He loved to cook and was very attached to his family, especially to me. The family is shattered due to his demise,” said the 12-year-old’s aunt Reshma Parche, 28.The roof of the fourth floor flat of the ground-plus-five-storey building – which was 27 years old – had collapsed on Saturday around 1.30pm. Milind’s parents, elder brother and three other family members were rescued from the balcony of their first floor flat by the Ulhasnagar fire brigade team. Rohit Lokhande, 15, who was on the fourth floor of the building with his 5-year-old sibling and two cousins, managed to somehow open the door of his house that was stuck after the incident, and find way to the staircase. “It was only us children in the flat at the time of the incident. We were sleeping when the slab collapsed and could not understand what had happened. I rushed to the door and tried opening it but it was stuck. I pushed it hard and managed to open the door and rushed out with my cousins and sibling,” said Rohit. “The building was not dangerous and residents were not given notice to vacate the building. We are also shocked due to the incident,” said Reshma Parche. UMC assistant commissioner Ganesh Shimpi said, “Only one family approached us and we have accommodated them at a local gurdwara.”The Ulhasnagar Municipal Corporation (UMC) confirmed that the building is not in the dangerous buildings’ list. Meanwhile, residents say the incident has left them homeless. “We have no place to go now. We are living on the streets at present with no belongings,” said Lata Metkar, 45, a resident of Mohini Palace, who lived in the building with her children. On Sunday morning, the police deployed at the collapse site claimed that the remaining portion of the building tilted a bit, which led to panic among the nearby residents. “We are trying to keep people away from the spot so that there is no other tragedy,” said an officer, who did not wish to be named. “We will start demolishing the structure from Monday and the procedure for it has been initiated,” said Ganesh Shimpi, assistant commissioner, UMC. Sashikant Dayma, a social activist from Ulhasnagar, said, “A total of 30 people have died in 36 incidents of building or slab collapses within UMC limits in past 11 years. Every year, there is one such incident in the city and the civic body has failed to bring about a permanent solution.” As per UMC records, there are 23 ‘extremely dangerous buildings’ which need to be demolished and 116 ‘dangerous buildings’, which need to be vacated and repaired, while eight buildings can be repaired without vacating residents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ulhasnagar-slab-collapse-survivors-left-without-shelter-bldg-to-be-razed-101621190227509.html
17-05-2021||Other||10 blackbucks found dead in Maharashtra’s Buldhana district, poisoning suspected||Ten blackbuck were found dead on Saturday in Shivara locality of Tadora Budruk forest range, Buldhana district. The incident came to light after some residents informed forest department officials about a few dead deer in the area, located among a large swathe of farmlands at the southern edges of the Satpura range — a preferred habitat of blackbuck that extends all the way to Buldhana, Akola and Amravati districts. A survey by officials then revealed that the fatalities included six female and four male blackbuck. In a statement late on Saturday, the forest department said that it was in the process of conducting autopsies and that the animals were suspected to have been poisoned. “This is not a new situation. We have seen it before but such a large group of blackbuck deaths is quite unusual. Local farmers could have poisoned the animals as they are a major threat to crops,” said a forest department official who did not wish to be identified. The official added that two of the dead blackbuck were pregnant.“The deers have been necropsied at this time. After the post-mortem of the animals, the body parts will be collected and the samples will be sealed and sent to the forensic laboratory for examination,” the forest department’s statement said. Experts and environmentalists, too, described the event as unusual, given the number of animals that seemingly died in a single instance. “This incident certainly warrants further investigation by the forest department. The Satpura range is an important corridor route from Umbardev to Kuvardev in the taluka, and is currently suffering from a range of anthropogenic stress by way of deforestation, illegal grazing, quarrying and so on. Habitat fragmentation and loss of open grasslands have inevitably pushed blackbuck into farms in conflict with farmers,” said environmentalist Ashwin Rajput.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/10-blackbucks-found-dead-in-maharashtra-s-buldhana-district-poisoning-suspected-101621190107514.html
17-05-2021||Mumbai||Parents skip pre-primary school, enrol kids to Class 1||On a hot summer afternoon, Ranjana Sharma, a pre-primary teacher from a budget private school in the city’s northern suburb — Kandivli — was busy doing the rounds of homes in the school’s vicinity, trying to convince parents to enrol their children in her school. She said that parents are now enrolling their children directly in Class 1 with the wrong belief that their child will not miss out on anything during the pandemic.“With schools going online, many parents are skipping pre-primary classes altogether and are enrolling children directly in Class 1. Many parents feel that they can save some money and have a wrong notion that the children will not miss out on anything as these are early years. But that is wrong,” said Sharma.In 2020, Sharma’s school had barely five students in each grade, a number that usually goes up to 20 every year. In the absence of sufficient student strength, her school had to let go of some of her colleagues. “It was a bad situation. We charge minimum fees but parents were not in a position to spare even that. Even the ones who took admission did not pay immediately,” she said. This year, a month before schools reopen for the new academic year, Sharma and her colleagues have only managed to get a handful of students.A year after schools in the state closed due to the Covid-19 pandemic and the resultant lockdown, early years and preschool education, which caters to students between the ages of two and six years, is the worst hit. Many preschools, especially the standalone private ones, had to shut down as they could not afford to bear the costs of teachers and the infrastructure due to very low enrolments.Swati Popat Vats, president of the Early Childhood Association and Podar Education Network, said that a large number of parents decided to take a zero year in 2020. “They did not realise that there is no such thing as a zero year in an early childhood education as 95% of brain development occurs in the first five years and these years are important for brain stimulation through language, socio-emotional development and cognitive nurturing,” she added.Early educators said that while 2020 was a terrible year for preschools, 2021 has only shown a marginal improvement. “Parents are slowly realising that online learning is the only option in the current situation but there are still many parents who are not willing to bear the expenses of a proper early-years programme even though almost all preschools have slashed their fees,” said Neeti Nagarkar, education consultant and founder, Kids World Education.Preschool chains said that while enrolments are slowly picking up, they are still creating awareness among more parents regarding the significance of early learning. “We are clocking rising admissions numbers as more and more parents are adopting online learning options to start the academic year and then plan to move to classrooms, whenever pre-schools are allowed to resume physical classes,” said KVS Seshasai, chief executive officer, pre-K division, EuroKids International.Since a large number of parents are still not enrolling children in a proper preschool of pre-primary programme, many companies have started offering short term bridge courses which are becoming popular among parents. Vats, however, warned against such courses and said, “These are courses that try to cover a years’ education in two to three months. Sadly, this is detrimental for children because it would only lead to piling on of education and stress for the children as they have to cram so much in so little time,” she added.For many parents from low-income backgrounds, however, budgeting for the child’s early education is becoming a challenge. “My husband works in a garment company in Andheri and was laid off a few months ago when the second wave began. We wanted to enrol our son in a nearby preschool but don’t know if we can afford it anymore,” said Sarika Mane, a parent from Mankhurd.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/parents-skip-pre-primary-school-enrol-kids-to-class-1-101621190047496.html
17-05-2021||Pune||Bibwewadi, Aundh-Baner have most micro-containment zones in city; Dhole Patil road has none||The Dhole Patil road ward, one of the wards in the city that saw the most Covid-19 cases during the beginning of the pandemic in April-May 2020, currently has no active micro-containment zones.Bhavani peth and Warje-Karvenagar wards too, have reported a drastic fall in the number of micro-containment zones, each reporting just one active zone - a single building. Bibwewadi and Aundh-Baner are currently reporting the highest number of micro-containment zones, 37 and 34 respectively. As of May 12, the city has a total of 230 micro-containment zones, most of them, housing societies.As per Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) data, the city has 230 active micro-containment zones which includes 31 buildings, 156 societies and 43 others. The most zones are in Bibwewadi and Aundh-Baner, followed by Dhankawadi-Sahakarnagar, and Yerwada-Kalas-Dhanori.The least number of zones are in DP road, Bhavani peth, Warje-Karwenagar, Kasba-Vishrambaugwada and Kondhwa-Yewalewadi. The highest number of new cases continue to come in from Hadapsar-Mundhwa and Ahmednagar Road-Vadgaonsheri. The spread of micro-containment zones in these wards is thin. On May 13, 2021, Dhole Patil road reported 57 new Covid-19 cases, while Bhavani peth had 24 new cases. On the other hand, during the same period, Bibwewadi reported a total of 76 new Covid-19 cases, while Aundh-Baner reported 180 new cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/bibwewadi-aundh-baner-have-most-micro-containment-zones-in-city-dhole-patil-road-has-none-101621179247064.html
17-05-2021||Pune||COEP jumbo facility blames oxygen shortage for not running at full bed capacity||PUNE In August 2020, Pune got its first Covid-19 dedicated jumbo facility, constructed on the grounds of College of Engineering Pune (COEP).The facility has a capacity of 800 beds - 600 oxygenated and 200 ICU.However, despite the facility till date, has never operated at capacity. As of May 16, COEP has 700 operational beds which the civic body plans to increase it to 740. That would be still 60 beds short of its planned capacity. The agency which runs the facility said that the facility could not meet its capacity because of the shortage of oxygen, and is still dependent on external oxygen supply. The COEP jumbo facility was inaugurated online by CM Uddhav Thackeray on August 24, almost six months after the first Covid case was detected in Pune on March 9, 2020. In September 2020, the city saw the peak of the first wave, and in April the second wave hit harder. During both periods, citizens faced a shortage of oxygenated and ICU beds. Incidents where people lost their lives to the infection as they could not get the right treatment and admission into any hospital, are rife. Dr Shreyansh Kapale, director of Medbros, which is running the facility, said, “The facility could not operate at full capacity because of the oxygen shortage. Currently, we have 700 beds and during the last peak we could not admit more patients as the existing oxygen capacity was just enough for the existing patients. Currently, the number of new cases is going down and we have enough oxygen.” Dr Kapale said there is no shortage of staff or financial aid restricting the facility. The PMC now plans to add 40 more beds to the facility which will bring the total number to 740. Of the 700 beds, 520 are oxygenated beds, 119 are ICU beds without a ventilator, and 61 have ventilators.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/coep-jumbo-facility-blames-oxygen-shortage-for-not-running-at-full-bed-capacity-101621178527100.html
17-05-2021||World||White House defends diplomacy over Israel-Gaza crisis||The Biden administration says it wants to deescalate or tamp down violence between Israel and Gaza to save lives, but the White House is resisting calls to demand a ceasefire in a conflict that has cost at least 200 lives.Pressed on why President Joe Biden and other top officials aren’t publicly calling for a ceasefire, White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki said Monday that “every statement we make is with the objective of reducing the violence and bringing an end to the conflict on the ground.”“There are times in diplomacy where we’ll need to keep those conversations quieter, where we won’t read out every component of it,” Psaki told reporters. “But that is our objective and that is the prism through which every action and every comment is being made.”Psaki said she wasn’t sure if Biden had seen the latest statement by a group of Senate Democrats calling on him to seek a ceasefire. She emphasized dozens of calls made by the president and top officials seeking to resolve the crisis, and said Biden was aware of the views held by members of Congress.A statement signed by 29 Senate Democrats on Sunday said they want Biden to do more.“To prevent any further loss of civilian life and to prevent further escalation of conflict in Israel and the Palestinian territories, we urge an immediate ceasefire,” according to the statement, signed by senators including Jon Ossoff of Georgia, Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota and Mark Warner of Virginia.That followed demands from a dozen Jewish Democrats in the House on Friday asking the administration to address Israel’s “deepening occupation” in Jerusalem. There have been other, more widespread calls for action from the left flank of the party, which increasingly links Israeli policies toward the Palestinians to calls for racial justice at home.“If the Biden admin can’t stand up to an ally, who can it stand up to?,” tweeted Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez of New York.Psaki wouldn’t say whether Biden feels that Israel’s actions in the conflict have gone too far.“It’s been seven days” since the latest flare-up started, Psaki said, adding that previous conflicts have lasted longer and that the US wants to see the violence wind down as fast as possible.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/white-house-defends-diplomacy-over-israel-gaza-crisis-101621274097864.html
17-05-2021||World||US sanctions Myanmar military and junta leaders for attacks against civilians||The US placed more members of Myanmar’s ruling military junta on a financial blacklist Monday for the deadly attacks against civilians following the February coup in the southeast Asian nation.The Treasury Department’s Office of Foreign Assets Control imposed financial sanctions on 16 people and the newly created State Administration Council. The designation freezes any assets they have within a US jurisdiction and bars anyone within a US jurisdiction from conducting any financial transactions with them.Thirteen of the people are senior members of Myanmar's military, which seized control of the country in February and has killed hundreds of people, including children, to suppress opposition.The other three are adult children of three senior military officials who were previously designated for US sanctions.Treasury said in a statement announcing the new sanctions that the Myanmar military is responsible for deadly attacks on civilians and the State Administration Council was created by the armed forces “to support the unlawful overthrow of the democratically elected civilian government.”It designated four members of the council as well as senior members of the military junta, including the governor of the central bank, the minister of international cooperation and the commerce minister.The military on Feb. 1 arrested Aung San Suu Kyi, whose National League for Democracy party won a landslide victory in the Nov. 8 polls and should have secured a second five-year term in office. The US has imposed several rounds of sanctions in response.The military, which ran the country also known as Burma for more than 50 years until 2015, then prevented elected lawmakers from convening a new session of Parliament and declared a state of emergency and and said it would run the country until new elections were held. Security forces have killed hundreds of people, including bystanders, as it attempts to suppress protests and opposition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-sanctions-myanmar-military-and-junta-leaders-for-attacks-against-civilians-101621273437627.html
17-05-2021||World||US blocks third draft UN statement on Israel-Gaza violence, diplomats say||The United States on Monday blocked -- for the third time in a week -- the adoption of a joint UN Security Council statement calling for a halt to Israeli-Palestinian violence and the protection of civilians, diplomats said.The text drafted by China, Tunisia and Norway was submitted late Sunday for approval Monday by the Council's 15 members, as Israeli jets continued to pound the Gaza Strip and the death toll from a week of violence passed 200.The United States indicated that they "could not currently support an expression" by the Security Council, one diplomat told AFP.The text, obtained by AFP, called for "de-escalation of the situation, cessation of violence and respect for international humanitarian law, including the protection of civilians, especially children."It voiced the Council's "grave concern" at the Gaza crisis and its "serious concern" regarding the possible eviction of Palestinian families from their homes in East Jerusalem, opposing "unilateral actions" likely to further escalate tensions.The draft also welcomed international efforts to de-escalate the situation, without reference to the United States, and reiterated the Council's support for a negotiated two-state solution allowing Israelis and Palestinians to "live side by side in peace within secure and recognized borders."- 'Protect civilians, especially children' -UN spokesman Stephane Dujarric underlined the importance of taking a consolidated position on the conflict."I would really restate the need for a very strong and unified voice from the Security Council, which we think will carry weight," he told a press conference.The UN General Assembly will hold an in-person debate on the Israeli-Palestinian clashes at 1400 GMT on Thursday, assembly spokesman Brenden Varma said.The Security Council has held three emergency meetings on the escalating violence in the past week, the latest on Sunday, without reaching a common position -- with Israel's main ally the United States accused of obstructionism.President Joe Biden's administration has insisted that it is working behind the scenes, including through a visit to the region by an envoy, and that a UN statement could backfire, according to diplomats.At a news conference in Copenhagen on Monday, US Secretary of State Antony Blinken urged Israel and Palestinians to "protect civilians, especially children" -- and defended Washington's move to block a UN Security Council statement calling for an end to the hostilities."We're not standing in the way of diplomacy," Blinken stressed.The US refusal to endorse a joint Security Council statement has been met with disbelief by its allies."We are just asking the US to support a statement by the Security Council that would pretty much say similar things which are being saying bilaterally from Washington," one diplomat told AFP on condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-blocks-third-draft-un-statement-on-mideast-violence-diplomats-say-101621272920804.html
17-05-2021||World||Russia extends Twitter slowdown, warns Facebook, YouTube||Russia said Monday it would continue slowing down Twitter's operations over illegal content and threatened Facebook and YouTube with similar measures.State telecommunications watchdog Roskomnadzor imposed slowdowns on Twitter's services in mid-March, accusing it of failing to remove content related to child pornography, drug use and calls for minors to commit suicide.The watchdog gave Twitter a month to remove the content or face a complete blockage in Russia. Last month it extended the deadline to mid-May.In a statement Monday, it said it had decided against blocking the service after conducting an audit that showed Twitter had removed more than 90 percent of the "prohibited information", but would continue slowing its operations.Twitter had "expressed its readiness and interest in building a constructive dialogue with Roskomnadzor", the watchdog added.It "appreciates the efforts of Twitter to comply with the requirements of Russian legislation", it said.But for all the restrictions to be removed it would have to remove "all identified prohibited materials". It would keep slowing Twitter on mobile devices, it added.Roskomnadzor did not say if it would stop slowing Twitter's services if the company deleted the rest of the content and did not give a deadline for doing so.- Facebook, YouTube warned -Roskomnadzor also said that it had identified cases of illegal content "on other internet sites, including Facebook and YouTube.""In the event that these platforms do not take appropriate measures, similar sanctions may be applied to them," the watchdog said.The measures against Twitter and other social media have raised concerns among Kremlin critics, who fear the clampdown is aimed at silencing opposition voices.Last month a Moscow court imposed on Twitter three fines totalling 8.9 million rubles ($120,000) for failing to delete posts calling for minors to join unsanctioned protests in support of jailed Kremlin critic Alexei Navalny.A Moscow court that month also hit TikTok with a fine of more than $30,000 for the same violation.In January, the authorities accused foreign social media platforms of interfering in Russia's domestic affairs by not deleting calls to rallies in support of Navalny.President Vladimir Putin that month complained about the growing influence of large technology companies, which he said were competing with states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/russia-extends-twitter-slowdown-warns-facebook-youtube-101621269424569.html
17-05-2021||World||US Supreme Court agrees to hear bid to slash abortion rights||The U.S. Supreme Court will consider gutting the constitutional right to abortion, agreeing Monday to hear Mississippi’s bid to ban the procedure in almost all cases after 15 weeks of pregnancy.The move suggests the court’s strengthened conservative wing may be ready to roll back the landmark 1973 Roe v. Wade ruling, which legalized abortion nationwide. The clash, which the court will hear in the nine-month term that starts in October, will be its first abortion case since Justice Amy Coney Barrett was confirmed. The decision to take the case required the votes of four justices.Mississippi’s appeal seeks to let states outlaw abortion even before a fetus becomes viable, or capable of living outside the womb. That would eviscerate the core holding of the 1992 Planned Parenthood v. Casey ruling, which said states can’t impose significant restrictions before viability. The court in Casey didn’t pinpoint when viability occurs but suggested it was around 23 or 24 weeks at the time of the ruling.In its appeal, Mississippi argued that viability is “not an appropriate standard for assessing the constitutionality of a law regulating abortion.” The state says its ban was designed to protect maternal health as well as the life of the fetus.“America cannot be a humane, civilized society if its courts preclude lawmakers from imposing reasonable limits on the taking of innocent life,” Mississippi Attorney General Lynn Fitch argued.Abortion opponents are seeking to take advantage of a court reshaped by three Donald Trump appointees. The last two of those, Barrett and Justice Brett Kavanaugh, replaced justices who backed the core abortion right. Kavanaugh replaced the retired Justice Anthony Kennedy while Barrett succeeded Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg, who died less than two months before last November’s election.Energized by the prospect of a more receptive court, conservative states have been moving to sharply restrict abortion rights. So far in 2021 alone, states have enacted more than 60 new abortion restrictions, including near-total bans in Arkansas and Oklahoma, according to the Guttmacher Institute, a research organization that backs reproductive rights.Overturning RoeThe 2018 law was challenged by the state’s only abortion facility, the Jackson Women’s Health Organization.“In an unbroken line of decisions over the last 50 years, this court has held that the Constitution guarantees each person the right to decide whether to continue a pre-viability pregnancy,” the clinic argued in a brief that urged rejection of the appeal.Abortion-rights advocates said the court’s eventual ruling could be a watershed moment.“Alarm bells are ringing loudly about the threat to reproductive rights,” Nancy Northup, president of the Center for Reproductive Rights, which is representing the clinic. “The Supreme Court just agreed to review an abortion ban that unquestionably violates nearly 50 years of Supreme Court precedent and is a test case to overturn Roe v. Wade.”The appeal doesn’t directly call on the court to overturn Roe and Casey. But in a footnote, Mississippi held open the possibility the court could take that step anyway.“If the court determines that it cannot reconcile Roe and Casey with other precedents or scientific advancements showing a compelling state interest in fetal life far earlier in pregnancy than those cases contemplate, the court should not retain erroneous precedent,” Fitch argued.‘Landmark Opportunity’Abortion opponents hailed the court’s decision to take the case.“This is a landmark opportunity for the Supreme Court to recognize the right of states to protect unborn children from the horrors of painful late-term abortions,” said Marjorie Dannenfelser, president of the Susan B. Anthony List. “It is time for the Supreme Court to catch up to scientific reality and the resulting consensus of the American people as expressed in elections and policy.”The Mississippi ban makes exceptions only in cases of severe fetal abnormality or major health risk to the woman. A federal district judge and then a federal appeals court said the ban was unconstitutional.Mississippi has a separate law that bans abortion after 20 weeks and isn’t at issue in the Supreme Court appeal. The Jackson clinic provides abortions only through the 16th week of pregnancy.White House spokeswoman Jen Psaki declined to comment on the court’s decision to take the case but said President Joe Biden and Vice President Kamala Harris “are devoted to ensuring that every American has access to health care, including reproductive health care.”The high court had deferred acting in the case since late September. The justices gave no explanation for the unusually long delay, though they ultimately said they would take only one aspect of Mississippi’s appeal, its attack on the viability issue.Mississippi also argued that clinics lacked the legal right to sue on behalf of their patients in the case, but the court on Monday declined to take up that issue.The case is Dobbs v. Jackson Women’s Health Organization, 19-1392.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-supreme-court-agrees-to-hear-bid-to-slash-abortion-rights-101621269953593.html
17-05-2021||World||US to send FDA-authorised Covid-19 vaccines abroad for first time||President Joe Biden plans to send an additional 20 million doses of U.S. coronavirus vaccines abroad by the end of June -- including, for the first time, shots authorized for domestic use, where supply is beginning to outstrip demand.Biden will announce Monday that he’ll export 20 million doses of vaccines from Pfizer Inc., Moderna Inc. or Johnson & Johnson, on top of 60 million AstraZeneca Plc doses he had already planned to give to other countries, according to a senior administration official familiar with the plan.The official, who asked not to be identified ahead of planned remarks from the president, stressed that the measures are only a first step as the U.S. pivots its attention to quelling the pandemic abroad. Biden has previously pledged that the U.S. would soon become an “arsenal” of global vaccine supply.Biden will also announce that he is putting Jeff Zients, who has served as the White House coronavirus response coordinator, in charge of his effort to beat back the pandemic globally, the official said. Zients will work with the National Security Council and other agencies to steer doses abroad.White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki confirmed the announcement, saying that the doses would go “to help countries battling the pandemic,” without specifying which ones. The 60 million AstraZeneca doses are subject to a safety review before they’ll be shipped.“We are waiting for, of course, AstraZeneca, as you know, to go through the approval process of the FDA, but this will put 80 million doses out into the world by the end of June,” Psaki said.The announcement is a watershed moment in the pandemic and a pivot for Biden’s administration. The U.S. government, under two presidents, claimed nearly all of the first several hundred million doses of vaccines produced on its soil. That approach allowed Biden to advance what has been one of the most successful domestic vaccination efforts in the world, but fueled inequities between nations that can produce their own shots and those that can’t.The Pfizer, Moderna and Johnson & Johnson vaccines are authorized for use in the U.S., but AstraZeneca’s shot is not. It wasn’t immediately clear which countries would receive U.S. shipments.Mexico and Canada have already received doses of the U.S. AstraZeneca stockpile, and Pfizer has begun shipping doses of its U.S.-produced vaccine to countries including Mexico, Canada and Uruguay, apart from the Biden administration’s plans to share doses.The U.S. domestic vaccination campaign is beginning to run out of willing arms. The country is set to cross a threshold of 60% of adults who’ve received at least one shot on Monday.Also Read | India and US hold talks on increasing Covid vaccine availability, TRIPS waiverIn Need of ShotsMeanwhile, scores of low-income nations and even some developed countries are struggling to secure supplies of vaccines.Covax, a global program aimed at easing vaccine procurement and access for lower-income countries, is facing a supply shortage and expects the shortfall to reach about 190 million doses next month, UNICEF, one of its partners, said on Monday. Biden has previously announced a pledge of up to $4 billion for Covax.Biden has said he would only share U.S.-purchased doses once there was enough supply to meet U.S. demand. Manufacturing errors at a Baltimore plant resulted in a contaminated batch of Johnson & Johnson’s shot and greatly slowed production of the vaccine, once envisioned as a pillar of U.S. supply. Instead, the U.S. has relied almost entirely on the Pfizer and Moderna shots.Biden has faced pressure to do more to help the world, as the U.S. winds down nearly all mitigation measures such as masking and other countries try to quell fresh outbreaks and new variants with limited vaccine supply. Biden has launched what he calls a “new phase” of his pandemic effort, turning to the painstaking work of persuading more hesitant Americans to get shots as demand dries up among people eager for vaccination.U.S. caseloads continue to fall, with 16,857 new cases recorded Sunday, the lowest daily total since March of 2020 -- though Sundays are typically the lowest daily total of any week. The pace of vaccinations has fallen by over a third from a month ago, and is hovering now at about 2 million doses a day.Vaccine exports have been a thorny issue for Biden, who has tried to reclaim a mantle of U.S. leadership abroad while also borrowing many of the America-first tendencies of his predecessor, Donald Trump, in his pandemic response. While the European Union and India mixed vaccine exports with domestic allocation, the U.S. has for months cornered the market on its supply, effectively preventing early exports.Trump and Biden used wartime powers to prioritize their orders from U.S. plants, effectively placing the government at the front of the line. U.S. orders also include contractual clauses limiting the government’s ability to share doses abroad.The administration sought to skirt those restrictions by framing the 4.2 million AstraZeneca doses already shipped to Mexico and Canada as a “loan.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-to-send-fda-authorised-covid-19-vaccines-abroad-for-first-time-101621269486992.html
17-05-2021||World||US Supreme Court limits police power to enter homes with no warrant||The U.S. Supreme Court on Monday refused to make it easier for police to enter a home without a warrant for reasons of health or public safety, throwing out a lower court's decision to dismiss a lawsuit brought by a Rhode Island man after officers entered his home and confiscated his guns.The 9-0 ruling directed the Boston-based 1st U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals to reconsider Edward Caniglia's lawsuit accusing police of violating his constitutional rights by bringing him to a hospital for a mental health evaluation and taking away his guns without a warrant after a 2015 argument with his wife.Lower courts had ruled that police in the Rhode Island city of Cranston did not violate the Constitution's Fourth Amendment ban on unreasonable searches and seizures.The case centered on a legal doctrine that gives officers leeway to engage in "community caretaking" to ensure public safety. In its ruling, the Supreme Court, which has previously applied this doctrine to vehicles, said it does not apply to the home as well."What is reasonable for vehicles is different from what is reasonable for homes," Justice Clarence Thomas wrote for the court.In ruling against Caniglia, the Boston-based 1st U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals concluded that even if his case did not involve an emergency, the police conduct was justified under the community caretaking doctrine.There has been heightened concern over police conduct, including how authorities deal with mentally ill people, in the wake of protests in many cities last year against racism and police brutality.President Joe Biden's administration backed police in the case. A Justice Department lawyer told the justices that officers should not be required to obtain warrants in situations in which people could be seriously harmed.The Rhode Island case arose from a domestic dispute. An argument between Caniglia and his wife Kim that began over a Walt Disney World coffee mug escalated into a disagreement about her extended family, according to court papers. At one point, Caniglia retrieved a gun and asked his wife to shoot him to "get me out of my misery," according to court papers.She decided to spend the night at a hotel, then called police because she feared her husband could be suicidal.Caniglia, 70, said in court papers he had no criminal history and no record of violence or misuse of guns. Police returned his guns only after he sued.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-supreme-court-limits-police-power-to-enter-homes-with-no-warrant-101621266149555.html
17-05-2021||World||Israel-Palestine conflict: Why images of densely-populated Gaza blurry on Google Maps?||Amid the worst Israeli-Palestinian violence in years, researchers observing the conflict through public domain information have raised concern about the blurry satellite images of the region on Google Maps. The low-resolution satellite images of Gaza, one of the most densely populated places on Earth, on Google Maps makes it difficult to even identify the buildings in some cases. The satellite images of Pyongyang, North Korea's secretive capital, are of far better quality on Google Maps.Google relies on a range of third parties that own satellites to supply imagery, and the mapping team stitches those images to “create a seamless map.” However, when higher quality satellite images are available from satellite companies like Maxar and Planet Labs, two of the largest, researchers find it “absurd” that Google is still providing blurry images.Google claims that the company aims to update satellite imagery of the places “that are changing the most.” “Overall, our goal is to keep densely populated places refreshed on a regular basis and to keep up with a changing world, so we will refresh areas more frequently when we think there’s lots of building or road construction going on,” Matt Manolides, Google’s Geo Data Strategist, said in a blog post.With over 13,000 people per square mile, Gaza City is more densely populated than major world cities like London and Shanghai. But Google Maps shows clearer images of far less densely populated areas than Gaza. “The most recent Google Earth image is from 2016 and looks like trash. I zoomed in on some random rural area of Syria and it has had 20+ images taken since that time, in very high resolution,” tweeted Aric Toler, a journalist for Bellingcat.I know this is the least of the issues going on in Gaza now, but it's absurd that Google (and Bing, and even Yandex) refuse to provide non-potato satellite imagery for some of the most densely populated places on earth, and are regularly hit by Israeli airstrikes. pic.twitter.com/c6DtcYXYvrAlso Read | India condemns all violence in Israel, Gaza; supports 'just Palestinian cause'What does the US law say on image availability?Until last year, the American providers were barred from selling clearer satellite images of Israel and the Palestinian territories. In 1997, the Kyl-Bingaman Amendment (KBA) was introduced to address the security concerns of Israel, under which satellite images of the region used in mapping services like Google Earth could not show items smaller than 2 metres across.While it is not uncommon for companies to blur out sensitive areas like military bases, KBA was an exception with such a wide area getting impacted. But the regulation was dropped in July last year after the US Commercial Remote Sensing Regulatory Affairs Office argued that “a number of foreign sources” were already producing and disseminating sub-2 metre imagery of Israel, reported Reuters. Why are Gaza images still blurry?Google is still using blurry images from 2016 to show areas of Gaza. According to a BBC report, Google said that it considers "opportunities to refresh [its] satellite imagery as higher-resolution imagery becomes available", however, added that it had "no plans to share at this time". Apple Inc., which also shows satellite imagery through its mapping apps, said it was working to update its maps to a higher resolution, per BBC.Satellite imagery plays an increasingly important role in investigating human rights abuses across the world. In 2017, Human Rights Watch partnered with satellite-imaging and data company Planet Labs to document rights violations, especially in countries where investigators face restrictions, like Myanmar or Syria. The satellite images provided by Planet Labs showed the widespread burning of ethnic Rohingya villages in Myanmar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/israelpalestine-conflict-why-densely-populated-gaza-blurry-on-google-maps-101621263791928.html
17-05-2021||World||Singapore’s unlinked Covid-19 cases tied to Indian variant||The highly transmissible strain of Covid-19 that surfaced in India has become more prominent among Singapore’s growing number of unlinked cases, in a sign that hidden chains of transmission of the variant have existed for some time.Of the 17 unlinked cases identified on Sunday, six patients whose ages range from 29 to 57 years old preliminarily tested positive for the strain known as B.1.617, according to updated Ministry of Health data published overnight. Among them is a driver who was tested for the virus after developing a runny nose, an auxiliary police officer who had body aches, and an unemployed Malaysian national who saw a doctor after experiencing fever and cough. Among them, two had gotten their first vaccine dose already.There have also been cases tied to the India variant in the infection clusters seen at the country’s airport and a large public hospital.All in, Singapore reported 38 new cases of Covid-19 infection in the community on Sunday, the highest number in more than a year. The spike in unlinked local cases -- which increased to 32 cases in the past week from six cases the week before -- comes as Singapore returns to the lockdown-like conditions it last imposed a year ago, banning dining-in and limiting gatherings to two people. While the outbreak is smaller than the one last year centered on migrant workers, it is being driven by new variants, which are causing fierce new waves and outpacing vaccination progress in many places around the world.On Sunday, Singapore further announced it will stop most in-person school classes this week, with its education minister saying some of the variants appear to attack younger children.Countries like the U.K. have said the strain could lead to a major surge in cases and is accelerating its vaccine rollout. Meanwhile, Singapore’s inoculation pace has been limited by supplies. The city-state is now studying holding off the second vaccine shot so that more people can get at least the first dose.“If supply is limited, then giving more people a single dose while waiting for more supplies is a good strategy because the protection from the mRNA vaccines after one dose is quite high, said Raina MacIntyre, a professor of biosecurity at the University of New South Wales in Sydney.Vaccination PaceShe co-authored a study last month looking at requirements for herd immunity in Australia’s New South Wales, which has a population size comparable to Singapore’s. If using a vaccine of 90% efficacy against all infections, it finds you need 66% of the population to be fully vaccinated. So far, Singapore has vaccinated 1.9 million people, or a third of the population, with the first dose. About 1.3 million have received both doses.“All precautions must continue while the vaccination program continues,” she said. MacIntyre said that if the Indian variant, that is more transmissible, is dominant, “achieving herd immunity will require higher vaccination rates - maybe 75-80% vaccinated.”Singapore’s virus situation could be more dangerous than it was just before a similar lockdown last year, warned David Lye, an associate professor at the National Centre for Infectious Diseases, according to the Straits Times. The many cases with no linkage suggest that the spread to the community from the outbreak at Changi Airport may be “wide and far,” he said, according to the paper.Singapore has reacted aggressively to the flareup linked to the variant by barring visitors from India last month and extending quarantines at government-designated facilities to three weeks.“New strains of the Covid-19 virus seem to have slightly different characteristics from the previous strains,” Chan Chun Sing, the new education minister said at a briefing on Sunday announcing the new school measures. “But one of the things that we have seen seems to be -- at least from our numbers -- there are more children who seem to have contracted this virus, so of course that is an area of great concern.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/singapores-unlinked-covid-19-cases-tied-to-indian-variant-101621264616160.html
17-05-2021||World||Irish ransomware attack to cost health service millions of euros for rebuilding IT systems||The Irish health service expects to spend tens of millions of euros rebuilding its IT systems from a cyber attack which is set to cause significant disruption to diagnostic services into next week.Ireland's health service operator shut down all its IT systems on Friday to protect them from a significant ransomware attack the government said was carried out by an international cyber crime gang.While the Covid-19 vaccination programme was not directly affected and the Health Service Executive (HSE) restored its test and tracing system within hours, hospital appointments have been cancelled across all outpatient services."What we have to do here is a very significant rebuild. This will be in the tens of millions in terms of impact on our systems, there's no doubt about it," HSE Chief Executive Paul Reid told national broadcaster RTE."Even as we get those systems back up there is a period of time where it is impossible to say what will stay stable so we are in for a period well beyond this week of monitoring the impact of this."Cancellations in parts of the country included radiotherapy appointments, cardiac checks, x-rays, CT scans and the processing of non-emergency blood tests as some hospitals were hit harder than others.There was widespread cancellation of radiology services across the country due to its reliance on the IT system, the HSE said.Some hospitals' information had been compromised, Reid said, adding that officials did not yet know the extent of the breach.Ireland's minister responsible for e-government Ossian Smyth said as most of HSE's data is administrative, clinical data was unlikely to be breached. He said he understood that the health services' backup files were unaffected so there is no data loss.Ransomware attacks typically involve the infection of computers with malicious software. Users are left locked out of their systems, with the demand that a ransom be paid to restore computer functions.Irish Prime Minister Micheál Martin has said the government will not pay any ransom.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/irish-ransomware-attack-to-cost-health-service-millions-of-euros-for-rebuilding-it-systems-101621255992531.html
17-05-2021||World||Kamala Harris to headline Democratic Asian American summit||Vice President Kamala Harris, the first Asian American to hold the No. 2 position in the White House, will headline a virtual summit hosted this week by the leading Asian American Democratic political action committee, organizers told Reuters.Harris' attendance at the AAPI Victory Fund's first-ever "Unity Summit," which will be announced on Monday, bolsters the group's effort to harness an unprecedented surge of Asian American and Pacific Islander (AAPI) voters in the 2020 presidential election.In addition to the vice president, former Secretary of State and Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton will speak at Wednesday's event, which is co-hosted by the AAPI Victory Alliance, a nonprofit arm of the fund. Several Democratic U.S. senators of color, including Cory Booker of New Jersey and Tammy Duckworth of Illinois, are also expected to appear.The event is part of a broader effort to ensure that AAPI voters, long overlooked, are recognized as an increasingly crucial political force. Asian Americans are the fastest-growing ethnic group in the United States and served as a key piece of President Joe Biden's winning coalition in November's election."The AAPI community does now have the loudest voice we've ever had," said Varun Nikore, the executive director of the AAPI Victory Fund. "One of the reasons the voice is so loud is because we're asking – and in certain cases demanding – much more from our government."Amid a wave of anti-Asian hate crimes, AAPI voter turnout surged more than 45% from 2016's presidential election to 2020, according to the voting analytics firm TargetSmart – nearly four times the increase among all other voters. Almost two-thirds of the voters supported Democrat Joe Biden, according to the Reuters/Ipsos election day poll.The group Stop AAPI Hate, which tracks anti-Asian incidents, released a national report last week that found 6,603 instances between March 2020 and March 2021.Two other ethnic political groups – Collective PAC, which supports Black candidates, and the Latino Victory Fund – will also participate in the summit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/kamala-harris-to-headline-democratic-asian-american-summit-101621255419004.html
17-05-2021||World||China supports IP rights waiver on Covid-19 vaccines: Foreign ministry||China on Monday said it supports appeals made by developing countries for waiving intellectual property rights for Covid-19 vaccines as questions are raised on the equitable distribution of the shots globally.Foreign ministry spokesperson, Zhao Lijian said as the largest developing country, China supports the appeal to waive intellectual property rights as long as it is conducive to the inoculation needs of developing countries.China fully understands and supports the request of developing countries to exempt the intellectual property rights of Covid-19 vaccines, Zhao said at the foreign ministry conference on Monday.India and South Africa are among the countries to have called for the lifting of patent rights for vaccines as a way of boosting manufacturing and ensuring global supply.The US too under its President Joe Biden supports the idea, provided it’s done through the World Trade Organisation (WTO).British and European Union officials have been skeptical about the usefulness of the move to remove patent protections for Covid-19 vaccines, while saying they are prepared to discuss it.“China supports the WTO’s proposal on IP exemptions for anti-epidemic materials such as the Covid vaccine to enter the text consultation stage,” Chinese commerce ministry spokesperson, Gao Feng said last week.“China will work with all parties to actively participate in consultations and jointly promote a balanced and effective solution,” Gao said.China, meanwhile, had administered more than 400 million Covid-19 vaccines until Sunday, state media reported Monday.It took nine days for China to administer 100 million doses, taking the number above 400 million doses from 300 million doses.“It took 17 days for the number of Covid-19 vaccines administered on the Chinese mainland to exceed 300 million doses from 200 million, and 26 days from 100 million to 200 million,” Chinese state media reported, quoting daily updates by the National Health Commission.Meanwhile, China has begun to roll out the first single-dose Covid-19 vaccination in Shanghai after it was approved by the National Medical Products Administration.The CanSinoBIO vaccine uses a modified common cold virus known as adenovirus type-5 (Ad5) to carry genetic material from the coronavirus protein into the body, and can be given to those aged 18 and above.“Based on phase-3 clinical data, the efficacy of the CanSinoBIO vaccine in preventing symptomatic cases is 65.28%, and 90.07% in preventing severe disease 28 days after vaccination,” a state media report said.Adverse reactions to the CanSinoBIO vaccine, according to the report, could include swelling at injection point, fever, fatigue, nausea, headaches and muscle pain, adding that these symptoms usually go away without medical intervention.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-supports-ip-rights-waiver-on-covid-19-vaccines-foreign-ministry-101621255990684.html
17-05-2021||World||Blinken says haven't seen Israeli evidence on AP Gaza building strike||US Secretary of State Antony Blinken says he has not seen any Israeli evidence of Hamas operating in the Gaza office building hit by airstrike over the weekend. Blinken says he has asked Israel for justification for the strike.Blinken spoke at a news conference in Copenhagen, Denmark, as pressure is increasing on the Biden administration to ask for a ceasefire in the Israeli-Palestinian conflict.Israel destroyed a building housing The Associated Press and other media, and claimed that Hamas used the building for a military intelligence office.“Shortly after the strike we did request additional details regarding the justification for it,” Blinken said. He declined to discuss specific intelligence, saying he “will leave it to others to characterize if any information has been shared and our assessment that information.”But he said, “I have not seen any information provided.”UN Security Council diplomats and Muslim foreign ministers convened emergency weekend meetings to demand a stop to civilian bloodshed as Israeli warplanes carried out the deadliest single attacks in nearly a week of Hamas rocket barrages and Israeli airstrikes.President Joe Biden gave no signs of stepping up public pressure on Israel to agree to an immediate cease-fire despite calls from some Democrats for the Biden administration to get more involved.His ambassador to the United Nations, Linda Thomas-Greenfield, told an emergency high-level meeting of the Security Council that the United States was “working tirelessly through diplomatic channels" to stop the fighting.But as battles between Israel and Gaza's militant Hamas rulers surged to their worst levels since 2014 and the international outcry grew, the Biden administration — determined to wrench US foreign policy focus away from the Middle East and Afghanistan — has declined so far to criticize Israel's part in the fighting or send a top-level envoy to the region. Appeals by other countries showed no sign of progress.Thomas-Greenfield warned that the return to armed conflict would only put a negotiated two-state solution to the decades-old Israeli-Palestinian conflict even further out of reach. However, the United States, Israel's closest ally, has so far blocked days of efforts by China, Norway and Tunisia to get the Security Council to issue a statement, including a call for the cessation of hostilities.In Israel, Hady Amr, a deputy assistant dispatched by US Secretary of State Antony Blinken to try to de-escalate the crisis, met with Israeli Defense Minister Benny Gantz, who thanked the US for its support.Blinken himself headed out on an unrelated tour of Nordic countries, with no announced plans to stop in the Middle East in response to the crisis. He made calls from the plane to Egypt and other nations working to broker a cease-fire, telling Egypt that all parties “should de-escalate tensions and bring a halt to the violence.”Rep. Adam Schiff, Democratic chairman of the House intelligence committee, urged Biden on Sunday to step up pressure on both sides to end current fighting and revive talks to resolve Israel's conflicts and flashpoints with the Palestinians.“I think the administration needs to push harder on Israel and the Palestinian Authority to stop the violence, bring about a cease-fire, end these hostilities, and get back to a process of trying to resolve this long-standing conflict,” Schiff, a California Democrat, told CBS's “Face the Nation.”And Sen. Todd Young of Indiana, the senior Republican on the foreign relations subcommittee for the region, joined Connecticut Sen. Chris Murphy, the subcommittee chairman, in asking both sides to cease fire. “As a result of Hamas' rocket attacks and Israel's response, both sides must recognize that too many lives have been lost and must not escalate the conflict further,” the two said.Biden focused on civilian deaths from Hamas rockets in a call with Netanyahu on Saturday, and a White House readout of the call made no mention of the US urging Israel to join in a cease-fire that regional countries were pushing. Thomas-Greenfield said US diplomats were engaging with Israel, Egypt and Qatar, along with the UN.Israeli airstrikes on Gaza City flattened three buildings and killed at least 42 people Sunday, medics said, bringing the toll since Hamas and Israel opened their air and artillery battles to at least 188 killed in Gaza and eight in Israel. Some 55 children in Gaza and a 5-year-old boy in Israel were among the dead.Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu told Israelis in a televised address Sunday that Israel “wants to levy a heavy price” on Hamas. That will “take time,” Netanyahu said, signaling the war would rage on for now.Representatives of Muslim nations met Sunday to demand Israel halt attacks that are killing Palestinian civilians in the crowded Gaza strip. Saudi Foreign Minister Faisal bin Farhan called on “the international community to take urgent action to immediately stop military operations.”The meeting of the 57-nation Organization of Islamic Cooperation also saw Turkey and some others criticize a US-backed push under which the United Arab Emirates, Bahrain and other Islamic nations signed bilateral deals with Israel to normalize their relations, stepping over the wreckage of collapsed international efforts to broker peace between Israel and the Palestinians long-term.“The massacre of Palestinian children today follows the purported normalization,” Iranian Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif said. tAt the virtual meeting of the Security Council, UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres said the UN was actively engaging all parties for an immediate cease-fire.Returning to the scenes of Palestinian militant rocket fire and Israeli airstrikes in the fourth such war between Israel and Hamas, “only perpetuates the cycles of death, destruction and despair, and pushes farther to the horizon any hopes of coexistence and peace,” Guterres said.Eight foreign ministers spoke at the Security Council session, reflecting the seriousness of the conflict, with almost all urging an end to the fighting.Biden's predecessor, Donald Trump, had thrown US support solidly behind Israel, embracing Netanyahu as an ally in Trump's focus on confronting Iran. Trump gave little time to efforts by past US administrations to push peace accords between Israel and the Palestinians, instead encouraging and rewarding Arab nations that signed two-country normalization deals with Israel.Biden, instead, calls Middle East and Central Asia conflicts a distraction from US foreign policy priorities, including competition with China.He's sought to calm some conflicts and extricate the US from others, including ending US military support for a Saudi-led war in Yemen, planning to pull US troops from Afghanistan, and trying to return to a nuclear deal with Iran that Israel opposes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/blinken-says-haven-t-seen-israeli-evidence-on-ap-gaza-building-strike-101621253975688.html
17-05-2021||World||CDC chief wants unvaccinated people to be ‘honest with themselves’. Here’s why||The latest guidelines from US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) on face masks drew mixed reactions as critics found it inconsistent with what the agency had recently recommended. The CDC on Thursday announced that fully vaccinated individuals don’t need to wear masks indoors or outdoors, “except where required by federal, state, local, tribal, or territorial laws, rules, and regulations, including local business and workplace guidance.” The announcement came days after CDC director Dr Rochelle Walensky told a Senate hearing that Americans should continue wearing masks.While some states have decided to keep the mask mandates, for now, in place, several states rushed to update their rules to match with federal guidelines even as just over 37% of the total US population has been fully vaccinated. According to the CDC, around 40% of the adult population is yet to receive at least one dose of vaccine against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).Also Read | CDC’s new mask change as a surprise, creates confusion for businessesAfter the mask mandate was lifted for fully vaccinated people, critics questioned how the authorities were supposed to enforce masking for unvaccinated individuals. When Walensky was asked at CNN’s ‘State of the Union’ whether she trusted people would wear a mask if they were unvaccinated, the CDC chief replied, "I think that people who were not inclined to wear a mask, were not inclined to wear a mask before Thursday.”"What we're really asking in those settings, is to say, in terms of the honour system, people have to be honest with themselves," Walensky said. "You're protected if you're vaccinated, you're not if you're not vaccinated."In another TV appearance, Walensky stressed the health agency is asking people to take their health into their own hands by getting vaccinated. In an interview on ABC's 'This Week', the CDC director said that the "foundational step" of lifting the mask mandate for fully vaccinated people was completely based on science. “For the unvaccinated, our policy has not changed,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/cdc-chief-wants-unvaccinated-people-to-be-honest-with-themselves-here-s-why-101621249661484.html
17-05-2021||World||Israel kills Islamic Jihad commander, Palestinians renew rocket barrage||Israel killed a senior Palestinian militant commander in Gaza on Monday in air strikes which it said also targeted underground tunnels used by Hamas, and Islamist groups renewed rocket attacks on Israeli cities.The violence entered a second week with no sign of an end to the fiercest hostilities in the region in years, despite growing international concern and mounting calls for a ceasefire.The death of Hussam Abu Harbeed, Islamic Jihad's armed commander for north Gaza, was likely to draw a fierce response from the militant group that is fighting alongside Hamas, the Islamist movement that governs the coastal enclave.The Israeli military said in a statement that Harbeed had been "behind several anti-tank missile terror attacks against Israeli civilians," and an Israel general said separately that his country could carry on the fight "forever".At least three Palestinians were also killed by an Israeli air strike on a car in Gaza City on Monday, medics said, after a night of heavy Israeli air strikes. Israel's military said Gaza militants had fired about 60 rockets towards Israeli cities overnight, down from 120 and 200 the two previous nights.Another Palestinian was killed in an aerial attack on the town of Jabalya, medics aid, and Gaza health officials put the death toll since the hostilities flared last week at 201, including 58 children and 34 women. Ten people have been killed in Israel, including two children, Israeli authorities say.After rockets were fired from Gaza at the Israeli cities of Beersheba and Ashkelon, Israeli jets bombed what the military said were 15 km (nine miles) of underground tunnels used by Hamas. It also struck nine residences belonging to high-ranking Hamas commanders, it said.With the sounds of Israeli bombardment continuing throughout the morning, some Gaza residents rushed to bakeries and drugstores to stock up on bread and other essentials."My children couldn't sleep all night even after the wave of intensive bombing stopped," said Umm Naeem, 50, a mother of five, as she shopped for bread in Gaza City. "What is happening to us is too much, but Jerusalem deserves all the sacrifices."A number of people were lightly injured after a rocket hit a building in the Israeli coastal city of Ashdod, police said.After a rocket hit a synagogue in the coastal city of Ashkelon, one resident, Osher Bugam, said: "We have to continue the war until there is long-term ceasefire - (one) that is not temporary."'WAR OF ATTRITION'Hamas began its rocket assault last Monday after weeks of tensions over a court case to evict several Palestinian families in East Jerusalem, and in retaliation for Israeli police clashes with Palestinians near the city's al-Aqsa Mosque, Islam's third holiest site, during the Muslim holy month of Ramadan.World concern had already deepened after an Israeli air strike in Gaza that destroyed several homes on Sunday and which Palestinian health officials said killed 42 people, including 10 children, and persistent rocket attacks on Israeli towns.U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken, whose country is a strong ally of Israel, called for tensions to deescalate after speaking to Egypt's foreign minister on Sunday. U.S. President Joe Biden said his administration was working with all parties towards achieving sustained calm.Brigadier General Yaron Rosen, a former Israeli air division commander, gave no indication on Monday there would be a let-up in attacks in what he called a "war of attrition"."The IDF (Israeli military) can go with this forever. And they (Hamas) can go on with their rockets, sadly, also for a very long time. But the price they are paying is rising higher and higher," he told reporters.The Israeli military said at least 130 Palestinian combatants had been killed since fighting began. Harbeed had been a commander with Islamic Jihad for 15 years and was behind an attack on the first day of hostilities last week, it said.U.N. Secretary-General Antonio Guterres said at the weekend the United Nations was "actively engaging all sides toward an immediate ceasefire".The United States said on Sunday it had made clear to Israel, the Palestinians and others that it was ready to offer support "should the parties seek a ceasefire".Jordan's King Abdullah said his kingdom was involved in intensive diplomacy to halt the bloodshed, but gave no details.The Israeli military said Hamas, a group regarded by Israel, the United States and the European Union as a terrorist movement, and other armed factions had fired about 3,150 rockets from Gaza over the past week. Israel's missile defence system intercepted most of them, it said.Hamas said its attacks were in retaliation for Israel's "ongoing aggression against civilians".The Israeli military said civilian casualties were unintentional and that its jets attacked a tunnel system used by militants, which collapsed, bringing the homes down. Hamas called it "pre-meditated killing".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/israel-kills-islamic-jihad-commander-palestinians-renew-rocket-barrage-101621250143520.html
17-05-2021||World||How East Jerusalem flashpoint Sheikh Jarrah got its own hashtag||Israeli police in riot gear pushed a Palestinian protester to the ground in East Jerusalem's Sheikh Jarrah neighbourhood, a moment captured on the smartphones of people looking on."See what they're doing! They're beating up women!" Aya Khalaf, a Palestinian social media influencer, screamed in the background as she caught the May 9 incident on a live stream to her 187,000 Instagram followers.The scene is one of several shared on social media from the near-nightly confrontations between Israeli police and protesters against the expulsion of eight Palestinian families from the neighbourhood, which is claimed by Jewish settlers.The hashtag "#SaveSheikhJarrah" has gained momentum overseas, with British singer Dua Lipa and Academy Award-winning actress Viola Davis among those expressing solidarity.In October last year, an Israeli court ruled in favour of settlers who say the Palestinian families are living on land that used to belong to Jews.Palestinians are appealing the decision at Israel's Supreme Court.But a court hearing was delayed earlier this month amid rising tensions at Sheikh Jarrah - which lies just a few minutes' walk from the Old City's Damascus Gate, another recent flashpoint.Anger over the proposed evictions was a key factor behind tensions in Jerusalem over the Muslim holy month of Ramadan, which last week escalated far beyond the holy city into the worst hostilities between Israel and the Palestinians for years.Portraying itself as the defender of Palestinians in Jerusalem, the militant Islamist group Hamas launched a rocket assault on Israel, which hit back with multiple air and artillery strikes on Gaza.A week later, nearly 200 people have been killed in Gaza, including 58 children, Gaza's health ministry said, and 10 people have been killed in Israel, two of them children, according to authorities.On Sunday in Sheikh Jarrah, Israeli forces shot dead a Palestinian driver who had crashed his car into a police roadblock, injuring six officers.Area Coveted By Both SidesA tree-lined area of sandstone homes, Sheikh Jarrah is named after a personal physician to Saladin, the Muslim conqueror who seized Jerusalem from the Crusaders in 1187.It also houses a site revered by religious Jews as the tomb of an ancient high priest.The settlers who filed the lawsuit say they bought the land from two Jewish associations that purchased it at the end of the 19th century. Palestinians, who question the legitimacy of the settlers' documents, have lived there since the 1950s.Standing outside a settler house that sits beside Palestinian neighbours, Yaakov, a religious Jew who gave only his first name, said: "This is traditionally a Jewish neighbourhood ... the Jordanians and the UN settled Arab refugees in these houses, so if there are any settlers here it's the Arabs who are living here."Pessimistic about the chances of winning their eviction case in Israeli courts, Palestinian residents have turned to social media."I now have around a quarter of a million followers," said Mohammed El-Kurd, 23. "I believe that these people are an electronic army."In one scene that went viral, his twin sister, Muna, was filmed shouting "You are stealing my house!" at an Israeli. "If I don't steal it, someone else is going to steal it," he shouted back.Instagram and Twitter were criticised by some social media users earlier this month after they noticed that posts documenting events in East Jerusalem were being deleted. The social media platforms issued an apology, blaming technical errors.Israel captured East Jerusalem in a 1967 war, later annexing it in a move not recognised by most of the international community who regard settlements there as illegal.Israel regards all of Jerusalem as its capital, citing historical and religious ties to the land. Palestinians claim East Jerusalem as the capital of a future state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/how-east-jerusalem-flashpoint-sheikh-jarrah-got-its-own-hashtag-101621250155567.html
17-05-2021||World||Saudi Arabia to reopen to foreign tourists soon, says official||Saudi Arabia plans to soon reopen to foreign tourists, a senior tourism official said on Monday after the kingdom announced the lifting of quarantine restrictions for certain foreign arrivals.The kingdom announced late on Sunday that non-citizens arriving from certain countries and who were fully vaccinated against or recently recovered from Covid-19 would no longer be required to quarantine in designated government hotels.Those new measures, however, only apply to residents, government and business travellers or those visiting friends and family but not foreign tourists, according to the Saudi Tourism Authority (STA).STA Chief Executive Fahd Hamidaddin told Reuters the kingdom would reopen to foreign tourists this year with an announcement expected to be made "very soon."Hamidaddin declined to say exactly when.Saudi Arabia liberalised its tourism industry in 2019, making it easier for foreigners to apply for tourist visas to the kingdom that had been relatively closed off for decades.Hamidaddin said the kingdom was still targeting 100 million annual visits by 2030, up from about 40 million a year before the pandemic. It was also still targeting for tourism to account for 10% of GDP, up from 3%, by 2030, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/saudi-arabia-to-reopen-to-foreign-tourists-soon-says-official-101621246719522.html
17-05-2021||World||'Area of concern': Singapore warns new virus strains infecting more children||Singapore will close schools from Wednesday as authorities warned new coronavirus strains like the one first detected in India were affecting more children in the city-state.The government has been tightening restrictions following a recent rise in local transmissions after months of near-zero cases.At a virtual news conference late Sunday, authorities announced that primary and secondary schools as well as junior colleges would shift to full home-based learning from Wednesday until the end of the school term on May 28.Hours before Sunday's news conference, Singapore confirmed 38 locally transmitted coronavirus cases, the highest daily count in eight months. Some of the cases involved children linked to a cluster at a tuition centre.Health Minister Ong Ye Kung, citing a conversation he had with the ministry's director of medical services Kenneth Mak, told a news conference Sunday that the B.1.617 strain "appears to affect children more".The strain was first detected in India."Some of these mutations are much more virulent and they seem to attack the younger children," Education Minister Chan Chun Sing said at the news conference."This is an area of concern for all of us," he said, adding however that none of the children who had been infected were seriously ill.The government is "working out the plans" to vaccinate students under the age of 16, Chan said in a Facebook post.The financial hub joins Taiwan in shutting down schools to stem the surge in infections.Taiwan's capital Taipei and adjacent New Taipei City announced Monday that schools would suspend classes from Tuesday until May 28.Taiwan, which emerged relatively unscathed last year, announced a further 333 local cases Monday, bringing the total to just over 2,000.The rise in local transmissions in Singapore will probably scupper a quarantine-free travel bubble with Hong Kong, due to begin on May 26 after an earlier failed attempt.Singapore has limited public gatherings to two, banned restaurant dine-ins and closed gyms in an attempt to stop the surge in infections.Authorities have also banned non-passengers from entering the airport terminal and closed an adjacent mall as around 9,000 workers undergo testing.Singapore had to fight serious coronavirus outbreaks last year when the illness surged through crowded dormitories housing low-paid foreign workers, infecting tens of thousands.But by global standards, its outbreak has been mild -- officials in the city of 5.7 million have reported more than 61,000 cases so far and 31 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/area-of-concern-singapore-warns-new-virus-strains-infecting-more-children-101621241839474.html
17-05-2021||World||Myanmar UN envoy urges international community to cut Tatmadaw's finance flows||Myanmar's ambassador to the United Nations (UN) Kyaw Moe Tun has urged the international community to cut off financial flows to the country's military Tatmadaw.In an exclusive interview to NHK World, he called on the international community to suspend investments and tie-ups with companies linked to the military, in order to stop the crackdowns on people protesting against the February coup.Kyaw Moe Tun said, "Any financial flow that goes through the military chain should be cut off immediately." He added, "They will be using this income for killing people of Myanmar."He called for support for the national unity government, which was set up by those opposed to military rule. He also asked countries in the region to give refuge to people forced to leave their homes due to the military's actions, such as airstrikes, reported NHK World.Kyaw also talked about the reported move by some anti-coup protesters to take up arms to confront the military.He said that when people's patience reaches a limit, it is difficult to convince them to keep protesting peacefully. He added, "Now we are taking all measures to protect people of Myanmar by ourselves."Kyaw then made the three-finger salute, a sign of resistance against the military, and said, "The military coup must fail, democracy must prevail in Myanmar."He has been staying on as UN Ambassador despite being removed by the military as the country's envoy after condemning the junta at the UN General Assembly. He is currently facing an arrest warrant after being charged with high treason.On February 1, the Myanmar military overthrew the civilian government and declared a year-long state of emergency. The coup triggered mass protests and was met by deadly violence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/myanmar-un-envoy-urges-international-community-to-cut-tatmadaw-s-finance-flows-101621232600816.html
17-05-2021||World||Sanofi-GSK reports success in virus vaccine, after setback||Sanofi and GlaxoSmithKline’s potential Covid-19 vaccine triggered strong immune responses in all adult age groups in preliminary trials, boosting optimism the shot may join the fight against the pandemic this year.After two doses of the vaccine candidate, participants showed neutralizing antibodies in line with those found in people who had recovered from the disease, according to results of the Phase 2 trial released Monday. The drugmakers said they plan to begin late-stage trials and production in the coming weeks and hope to win regulatory approval for the vaccine before the end of 2021.Regulators have already authorized a number of Covid-19 vaccines, though experts say more are needed as public health authorities around the world race to vaccinate their residents amid a pandemic that has already killed more than 3.3 million people and caused economic havoc.The Sanofi-GSK vaccine was an important part of the European Union's vaccination strategy, and had notably been championed by French President Emmanuel Macron's government. But researchers had to reformulate it after early testing produced an inadequate immune response in older people.The Sanofi-GSK candidate joins about a dozen vaccines now undergoing late-stage trials. The companies plan to produce up to 1 billion doses annually, and they have signed agreements to supply the U.S., Canada and developing countries, too. Public health experts say several vaccines will be needed to end the pandemic, because of the challenges in rapidly producing and distributing enough doses to vaccinate billions of people.“We know multiple vaccines will be needed, especially as variants continue to emerge and the need for effective and booster vaccines, which can be stored at normal temperatures increases,” said Thomas Triomphe, head of Sanofi’s vaccines unit.The results released Monday were from a Phase 2 trial involving 722 volunteers aged 18 to 95 who were recruited in the U.S. and Honduras.The late-stage trial will involve about 37,000 participants from countries around the world, the companies said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/sanofigsk-reports-success-in-virus-vaccine-after-setback-101621232515960.html
17-05-2021||World||PLA modernises Xinjiang's military units in 'reaction' to India-China LAC row||There is abundant evidence, from online social media releases of the People's Liberation Army (PLA) and state-controlled media, that the Chinese military has intensified efforts to modernize ground units in the Xinjiang Military District.The Xinjiang Military District is one part of the Western Theater Command. The latter boasts some 90,000-120,000 ground troops, principally divided into the 76th and 77th Group Armies (headquartered in the interior cities of Chongqing and Baoji respectively), according to research by the Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs at Harvard University in the USA.However, the Western Theater Command does not possess direct ground operational authority in the restive regions of Tibet and Xinjiang. Instead, both these high-altitude regions have their very own army-directed military districts to control the security situation.The Xinjiang Military District itself contains some 50,000-60,000 army troops, according to Dennis Blasko, a former US Army attache to Beijing and Hong Kong. Other analysis, such as that by the Belfer Center, believes the PLA has 70,000 ground troops in the district. Whichever figure is true, the fact is that Xinjiang Military District owns more troops than Tibet does, which controls an estimated 40,000 soldiers.Interestingly, the Xinjiang Military District in the far west of China has perpetually been something of a pauper when it comes to receiving the newest military equipment. This is probably because of a number of different reasons, chief amongst them being that the PLA is geared primarily for a conflict with Taiwan, and so units near that island nation are prioritized for the most modern combat gear. Additionally, Xinjiang's borders with Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Afghanistan and Pakistan are relatively secure, with no direct threat of cross-border intrusions.An order of battle compiled from several sources comes up with the following units in Xinjiang Military District: three motorized infantry divisions (the 4th, 8th and 11th Motorized Infantry Divisions); the 6th Mechanized Infantry Division; a special operations brigade; the 2nd Artillery Brigade; a "high-powered artillery brigade; two infantry regiments (the 1st and 2nd Independent Regiments); the 13th Air Defense Brigade; an engineer regiment; the 3rd Aviation Brigade; an intelligence/reconnaissancebrigade; and additional logistics units.There are also two border defense regiments (12th and 13th Border Defense Regiments). The PLARF has 646 Brigade near Korla. The brigade was known to have DF-21C medium-range ballistic missiles, but it seems likely the brigade has been re-equipped with the DF-26 intermediate-range ballistic missile. PLA units are dispersed widely around Xinjiang, China's largest province that spans a staggering 1.6 million square kilometers.Right up till last year, these units were predominantly equipped with older equipment such as Type 88 main battle tanks, Type 63 armored personnel carriers and elderly towed artillery pieces. These are in no way cutting edge, especially compared to some of the flashy new gear appearing in other combined arms brigades in more favored PLA units and theaters.However, 2021 has been an exciting one for PLA soldiers in the Xinjiang Military District! Waves of new combat systems are rolling in to help modernize key units in the province. Of course, Chinese state media likes to herald such new arrivals, since it contributes to state propaganda efforts. However, it is useful to note in detail what new systems have already been inducted before the first half of 2021 has even concluded.Most recently, in May, delivery of new PHL-03 multiple rocket launchers was reported. It is likely that these 8x8 truck-based rocket launchers were delivered to the "high-powered" artillery brigade, since the PHL-03 is a key artillery system in the PLA. Video footage revealed ten such PHL-03 MRLs arrayed at a commissioning ceremony, along with four trans-loader vehicles and four support trucks.Also new in May for Xinjiang appears to be the PCL-161 self-propelled howitzer. The PCL-161 is a 122mm-caliber howitzer installed on a 4x4 lightly armored truck chassis. These have probably been rolled out to one or more of the district's motorized infantry divisions. The advantages of the PCL-161 are enormous compared to existing lumbering towed howitzers that take time to set up and depart from a firing position.Just three months earlier, the PCL-181 self-propelled howitzer arrived in Xinjiang. An even more sophisticated artillery piece for the PLA, the PCL-181 is mounted on a 6x6 truck chassis and it boasts a 155mm-caliber gun. This type of mobile, wheeled system would be distributed to artillery brigades to again replace obsolete towed howitzers.Artillery systems like the PHL-03, PCL-161 and PCL-181 enjoy greater digitization than their predecessors. They are typically accompanied by command-and-control and reconnaissance vehicles, as well as medium-altitude drones in the air. This networked capability results in targeting and fire missions that are far more precise. Taken together, then, these new artillery assets are critical to beefing up the PLA in China's far west.What about armored vehicles? Significantly, Chinese Type 15 light tanks - the term "light tank" is relative, for the vehicle still weighs 35 tons - were first observed in Xinjiang in February. Photos showed that at least ten of these ZTQ-15 tanks had been delivered, with the likely recipient being the 6th Armor Regiment of the 6th Mechanized Infantry Division. These tanks are more maneuverable in mountainous terrain thanks to their nimbleness and weight compared to a heavier and larger main battle tank.Instead of older vehicles like the tracked Type 63 armored personnel carrier, footage of the much more modern ZBL-09 8x8 infantry fighting vehicle with 30mm cannon was finally released in May. A CCTV article said the ZBL-09 type had been issued to a combined arms brigade in Xinjiang, with live-firing practice taking place near the Karakorum mountain range. This Type 09 family of combat vehicles is diverse, with all kinds of variants in service, but the 8x8 wheeled vehicle allows units to move quickly by road.With Chinese media having announced that a Type 09-based ambulance was already serving in Xinjiang, it was only a matter of time before news of main combat vehicles of the family (like the ZBL-09) be released as well. It is still unclear which unit(s) has received the ZBL-09, but it will presumably be one of the motorized infantry divisions.Meanwhile, the PLA's 84th Army Aviation Brigade based in Wujiaqu also has the very latest helicopter types in service. CCTV footage from February showed Z-20 and Z-8G helicopters performing a mission with several Z-10 attack helicopters.The Z-20, a blatant copy of the American Black Hawk platform, is the newest addition to the PLA helicopter fleet. It was designed for optimal performance at high altitudes, making it well suited to flying in Xinjiang and Tibet. The Z-8G, meanwhile, represents the latest generation of the long-serving Z-8 helicopter family.When we put all these revelations together, we can sense huge impetus to PLA efforts to beef up its fighting capability in Xinjiang. But why?It is obviously a reaction to last year's tensions with India along the Line of Actual Control. Whereas Tibet had been prioritized for new equipment long before Xinjiang was, "ugly stepsister" Xinjiang was finally thrust into the limelight after India refused to back down against Chinese territorial aggression in the areas of Galwan and Lake Pangong in 2020. Instead of forcing the Xinjiang Military District to respond with elderly, and probably dilapidated in some cases, equipment, the PLA has urgently funneled equipment such as artillery, armored vehicles and helicopters into Xinjiang.One could argue that this equipment was going to trickle down to Xinjiang in any case, but last year's border confrontation definitely seems to have sped up the process and given it greater urgency. Indeed, it is rather impressive, and scary for China's neighbors, to see how rapidly the PLA can manufacture and distribute new systems.Of course, it is possible that China is waging a carefully calculated propaganda campaign to intimidate neighbors like India. It may be that the new equipment is not reaching Xinjiang in large numbers, and that its arrival in small batches of equipment is simply being milked to maximum effect.Nonetheless, it does not change the fact that the PLA has been rapid in its development, manufacture and distribution of new equipment. While Indian Ministry of Defence procurements remain mired in red tape and bureaucratic inertia, the PLA is forging ahead. Chairman Xi Jinping has prioritized the modernization and mechanization of the PLA, and that this is happening is undeniable even in former forgotten backwaters like Xinjiang.General Zhao Zongqi, former head of the Western Theater Command, stepped down in December 2020, after nearly five years in the job. He was replaced by General Zhang Xudong, who prior to that had been commander of Central Theater Command ground forces.Intriguing is the role of Lieutenant General Xu Qiling, who Chinese media reported on 1 June 2020 had taken up the post of commander of Western Theater Command ground forces. Xu, formerly serving in the Eastern Theater Command, essentially swapped posts with incumbent He Weidong. This lateral exchange is a most unusual occurrence, and the fact that it was reported during a time of tensions suggests he may have been called in as a firm hand to oversee PLA activities. Blasko described it as "a strange move in the middle of a crisis".Speaking of the border tensions with India, the Belfer Center noted: "This means that China is regularly operating with a permanent Indian conventional force advantage along its border areas. In the event of a major standoff or conflict with India, it would have to rely upon mobilization primarily from Xinjiang and secondarily from the Western Theater Command forces deeper in China's interior. By contrast, Indian forces are already largely in position."Of course, one way of overcoming this numerical disadvantage along the Indian border is to beef up the equipment issued to Xinjiang Military District with more modern replacements, as we indeed see occurring.The Nanjiang (Southern Xinjiang) Military District is responsible for the Aksai Chin area along the Indian border. The 6th Mechanized Infantry Division with 10,000-13,000 personnel is important since it is the closest to Aksai Chin, the location where last year's Galwan Valley bloodbath occurred. Notably, only one Chinese highway (called G219) leads into the area.Once border defense and other services like the PLA Air Force and PLA Rocket Force are included, the Western Theater Command possesses some 235,000 personnel.According to Blasko, however, only a "small fraction is deployed near the Indian border, primarily because the restrictive mountainous terrain and high altitude limit the effectiveness, and increase the vulnerability, of large mechanized formations. This terrain favors the defense over mechanized attack confined to valley floors, especially if the defense is from fortified emplacements on the high ground."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pla-modernises-xinjiang-s-military-units-in-reaction-to-india-china-lac-row-101621231048385.html
17-05-2021||World||China’s rise pushes US toward action on Competitiveness Bill||Bipartisan concern about China’s rising influence is driving the Senate toward passage of legislation aimed at bolstering US competitiveness in technology and manufacturing and delivering money to spur the domestic semiconductor industry.The Senate is poised to begin action this week on the package of bills based on a proposal from Majority Leader Chuck Schumer and Indiana Republican Senator Todd Young with the goal of finishing by the end of the month.The main part of the bill would authorize more than $100 billion over five years to boost research and development of innovative technology and manufacturing at colleges, universities and other institutions and create a new entity within the National Science Foundation to focus on technology.It’s also expected to include a $50 billion emergency appropriation aimed at boosting domestic semiconductor manufacturing, as well as funding for a communications security initiative designed to counter China’s dominance of 5G networks, according to a person familiar with the matter.The package is being pushed toward passage on an aggressive timetable by Schumer. The fervour among Democrats and Republicans to counter about China’s challenge to US economic primacy has made the legislation, known as the Endless Frontiers Act, one of the few bills to draw broad support at time when partisan divisions are running deep. Its fate also may serve as an indicator for other proposals, such as infrastructure, that have nominal bipartisan support.“Federal underinvestment in sciences has seen our country slip, exposing critical weak spots in our economy,” Schumer last week, setting up the first vote on the legislation. “If we don’t fix them, we will no longer be the number one economic leader in the world.”Related to that goal is a separate proposal expected to be included that would provide $50 billion for a program aimed at increasing semiconductor manufacturing in the US that was passed as part of the 2021 defense bill but never funded. The proposal has gained urgency as a global shortage of semiconductors causes economic pain in the US, shutting down auto plants because of a lack of chips for cars and trucks.Republican Senator John Cornyn of Texas has been working on the proposal with Democratic Senator Mark Kelly of Arizona along with others and said he expects it will supported by the White House as well as Senate Republicans. President Joe Biden in his broader infrastructure proposal has called for as much as $50 billion to expand US chipmaking.“If China decided to cut off our supply of semiconductors it would be like the Strait of Hormuz is to oil,” Cornyn said. “It would be a disaster economically.”Despite generally broad support, the Endless Frontier Act was the subject of a sometimes contentious markup session in the Senate Commerce Committee on Wednesday.Scores of amendments were proposed and some were adopted, sometimes over the protest of co-sponsor Young. In particular, he called an amendment proposed by Democratic Senator Ben Ray Lujan of New Mexico, a “poison pill” because it would divert some of the funding to the Department of Energy for its network of national laboratories. Among those is the Los Alamos National Laboratory in New Mexico.Funding Shift“I am disappointed that an amendment was adopted to divert significant funding away from the NSF Tech Directorate in favor of a program outside of the Committee’s jurisdiction,” Young said in a statement after the bill was approved by the committee.“I will continue working with my colleagues to ensure the final product lives up to its billing – a bold investment in research, education, technology transfer, and the core strengths of the US innovation ecosystem,” he said.The legislation has been carved up into separate tranches, with about half of the money going to the core functions of the National Science Foundation and another almost $30 billion going to help stand up a new tech directorate within the agency.Lujan’s amendment sends about $17 billion to the national labs. His co-sponsors included GOP Senators Marsha Blackburn of Tennessee, Shelley Moore Capito of West Virginia and John Thune of South Dakota, all of whom represent states where the national labs have a presence. Lujan’s amendment passed 23 to 5 and the overall bill passed the Commerce Committee by 24-4.Such political horse-trading -- along with a bipartisan desire to confront China -- may be key to passage in the Senate.The Endless Frontier Act, which is supported by numerous industry and trade groups, will be combined with a bill passed by the Senate Foreign Relations Committee this year and with proposals from other Senate committees, including Banking and the HELP committee. Senators will also be able to offer amendments on the floor. The process for passing the overall package is estimated to take two weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/chinas-rise-pushes-us-toward-action-on-competitiveness-bill-101621229649908.html
17-05-2021||World||China suggests ‘two-state solution’ to stop Israel-Palestine conflict||China has suggested a “two-state solution” and urged the US to shoulder its responsibilities in stopping the escalating Israel-Palestine tension at the UN Security Council meeting (UNSC) held on Sunday.Putting forward a four-point proposal in context of the ongoing tension, Chinese state councillor and foreign minister, Wang Yi said a “a two-state” solution was the “…fundamental way out”.China, he said, would again push the council to try and agree to a statement.The UN meet was held in the backdrop of violence in the region in which nearly 200 people, majority of them Palestinians including dozens of children, have been killed so far.“China supports the two sides resuming peace talks based on a “two-state solution” as soon as possible, to establish an independent State of Palestine that enjoys full sovereignty with East Jerusalem as its capital and based on the 1967 border, and fundamentally realise the peaceful coexistence of Palestine and Israel, realise the harmonious coexistence of the Arab and Jewish nations, and realise lasting peace in the Middle East,” Wang was quoted as saying by Chinese official media at the virtual UNSC debate on Palestine.Wang said because of the obstruction of the US, the UNSC has not been able to speak with one voice on Palestine.The Chinese diplomat was referring to Washington’s efforts to block the UNSC from issuing a joint statement on Israeli violence in Palestine. “We call upon the US to shoulder its responsibilities, adjust position,” Wang added.Besides the two-state solution, Wang’s four-point proposition included the immediate ceasefire and cessation of violence, humanitarian assistance including lifting the blockade and siege of Gaza at the earliest and ensuring international support in reducing the tension.“…international support is an obligation. The UNSC must take vigorous action on the Palestine-Israel conflict, reiterate its firm support for a “two-state solution”, and push the situation to cool down at an early date,” Wang said.In a separate phone call with Pakistani Foreign Minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi during the weekend, Wang said China, as the president of the Security Council for May, has pushed the council to hold two emergency consultations on the Palestine-Israel conflict, and has drafted a press statement, in a bid to guide the council to take actions, he added.“But regrettably, the council has so far failed to reach an agreement, with the United States standing on the opposite side of international justice, Wang said, urging all members of the council to shoulder their due responsibilities and make effective efforts to maintain regional peace and security.”China will continue to firmly support the just cause of the Palestinian people to strive for the restoration of their legitimate national rights, support a just solution to the current issue through political dialogue, and support the UN, the League of Arab States, and the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation in playing a constructive role in this regard, Wang said.“The death toll in Gaza jumped to 188 overnight, including 55 children, amid an intensive Israeli air and artillery barrage since the fighting erupted last Monday. Ten people have been killed in Israel, including two children, in thousands of rocket attacks by Hamas and other militant groups,” Reuters said in a report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-suggests-two-state-solution-to-stop-israel-palestine-conflict-101621228811753.html
17-05-2021||World||Beware of ‘misinformation’ virus in India’s Covid battle, warns US surgeon gen||US surgeon general Vivek Murthy has some advice for Indian-Americans and Indians as they deal with the unfolding devastating second wave of Covid-19 cases and wait for that dreaded phone call: watch out for misinformation in what you read, say or forward on social media platforms.“Misinformation is a virus itself, and it harms people, and it sometimes compels them to take actions that puts put them and other people at risk,” Murthy said in a virtual outreach to Indian-Americans on dangers of misinformation as India battles its worst public health crisis in a century.“In a pandemic when you’re responding, information is power and if you can get the right information to people they can take steps to protect themselves,” Murthy said further, adding that the government and the private sector can make all the vaccine and masks they want, but “they will be of no value if people don’t want to use them because of misinformation about them”.The United States and India are two countries hit the hardest by the Covid-19 pandemic, with cases and fatalities highest and second highest in the world respectively. They have also been hit hard by misinformation - and sometimes wilful disinformation - that has made some people underestimate Covid-19, suspicious of vaccines and dismissive of masks.Murthy’s remarks were first by a top US health official to address the potential damage inflicted by misinformation on the global response - especially Americans - to the tragedy unfolding in India. The US has sent $100 million worth of government assistance and $400 million from the private sector.If some Americans obsessed once about the magical powers of hydroxychloroquine, an anti-malarial drug, and briefly toyed with injecting household cleaning agents to flush the body of the deadly virus, Indians felt assured in their naturally-built immunity to fight off the virus or consider cow urine.America’s top doctor spoke in personal terms to underscore the ubiquity of the problem, bringing up his parents, who are from Karnataka and came to the United States via the United Kingdom, where Murthy was born. “My parents like many other Indian immigrants of their generation are part of WhatsApp groups,” Murthy said, adding, “they serve a wonderful purpose of keeping them connected to friends and family, but they can also become platforms to which misinformation rapidly spreads and that has been the case”.Social media platforms are facing questions around the world about their content and their culpability. They have begun flagging dodgy content and blocking serially egregious posters such as former president Donald Trump in the US and Bollywood star Kangana Ranaut in India.Murthy’s way forward was couched in terms easily relatable for most Indians and Indian-descent Americans. “Remind yourself that the source matters, right, and the source is not your uncle or aunt or sister or brother who sent it to you on WhatsApp. The source is a person who created that content, who made that video put out that post, right.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/beware-of-misinformation-virus-in-india-s-covid-battle-warns-us-surgeon-gen-101621227489583.html
17-05-2021||World||UK Covid-19 restrictions eased despite variant concerns||Most of the UK takes a major step towards normality on Monday as coronavirus restrictions are eased, despite concerns over the spread of a more transmissible variant of the disease.Across England, Wales and most of Scotland, indoor hospitality in pubs, restaurants and cafés returns and cinemas, museums and sports venues are to open their doors for the first time in months.But easing will not come until May 24 for Northern Ireland.People and families will also be able to meet with some restrictions inside private houses and international travel will resume to selected nations including Portugal."Together we have reached another milestone in our roadmap out of lockdown, but we must take this next step with a heavy dose of caution," Prime Minister Boris Johnson said on Sunday."We are keeping the spread of the variant first identified in India under close observation and taking swift action where infection rates are rising," he added.While leaving Monday's easing in place, Johnson last week warned the complete lifting of Covid-19 measures on June 21 could be put in jeopardy by a more transmissible variant that was first detected in India.- Accelerated vaccinations -On Sunday, Johnson said government data did not show the public National Health Service (NHS) under too much pressure.He added that second vaccine doses would be brought forward to protect the over-50s and clinically vulnerable people as measures are lifted and a new variant spreads.Britain, one of the worst-hit countries in the world with over 127,000 deaths, has also seen a rapid deployment of vaccines with over 20 million people now fully vaccinated.According to government data, the variant that first emerged in India is spreading in Britain with cases of the strain rising from 520 to 1,313 last week, centred around the northern towns of Bolton and Blackburn.Health Secretary Matt Hancock said the government could "stay on course" thanks to a "high degree of confidence" that vaccines would stand up to the strain.He also said the "vast majority" of people in hospital in Bolton with the new variant had been eligible for vaccination but had not come forward.-'Spread like wildfire'-Hancock warned the new strain could "spread like wildfire amongst the unvaccinated groups" and did not rule out localised restrictions.Scotland's western city of Glasgow and northeastern Moray area are upholding existing restrictions due to a surge in cases.Last week, Johnson committed to a full, independent public inquiry into his government's handling of the coronavirus.He has been accused of dithering over a third national lockdown in early January, as surging Covid-19 infections lifted hospital admissions and death rates.Experts and opposition politicians have also blamed Johnson for not restricting travel from India sooner as Covid-19 cases mounted there.But the Conservative government's popularity has enjoyed a "vaccine bounce" from the jabs rollout, with a strong showing in local elections in England.Vaccines Minister Nadhim Zahawi said Sunday that "one of the highest vaccine uptake rates in the world" had been crucial to the speedy progress.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-covid-19-restrictions-eased-despite-variant-concerns-101621225582177.html
17-05-2021||World||At Miss Universe pageant, Myanmar's contestant pleads "our people are dying"||Myanmar's Miss Universe contestant, Thuzar Wint Lwin, used the pageant on Sunday to urge the world to speak out against the military junta, whose security forces have killed hundreds of opponents since it seized power in a Feb. 1 coup."Our people are dying and being shot by the military every day," she said in a video message for the competition, where she was appearing in the finals at the Seminole Hard Rock Hotel & Casino in Hollywood, Florida."I would like to urge everyone to speak about Myanmar. As Miss Universe Myanmar since the coup, I have been speaking out as much as I can," she said.Myanmar's junta spokesman did not answer calls seeking comment.Thuzar Wint Lwin is among dozens of Myanmar celebrities, actors, social media influencers and sports people who have voiced opposition to the coup, in which elected leader Aung San Suu Kyi was overthrown and detained.At least 790 people have been killed by security forces since the coup, according to the Assistance Association for Political Prisoners activist group. It says over 5,000 people have been arrested, with some 4,000 still detained - including several celebrities.Thuzar Wint Lwin did not make it to the last round of the Miss Universe competition, but she won the award for Best National Costume, which was based on the ethnic costume of her Chin people from northwestern Myanmar, where fighting has raged in recent days between the army and anti-junta militia fighters.As she paraded with her national costume, she held up a placard that said "Pray for Myanmar".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/at-miss-universe-pageant-myanmar-s-contestant-pleads-our-people-are-dying-101621223464453.html
17-05-2021||World||Pak PM Imran Khan to discuss PML-N leader Shahbaz Sharif's name for Exit Control List||Prime Minister Imran Khan on Monday will discuss Pakistan Muslim League-Nawaz (PML-N) President Shahbaz Sharif's name for Exit Control List (ECL) with the Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI) and government members.During the meeting today, the matter of placing Shahbaz Sharif's name on the ECL will come under discussion. Apart from this, the premier will also issue guidelines related to the government's strategy to deal with the opposition, reported The News International.Moreover, the ongoing Israeli atrocities in Palestine and Pakistan's role in voicing its support and concerns for Gazans on an international level will also be discussed, Geo News reported.Commenting on the matter, Minister for Interior Shaikh Rashid said that Shahbaz Sharif's name has been placed on the Provisional National Identification List and he is not on a blacklist, as is the common misconception. He said Shahbaz's name has not been placed on the ECL yet."The cabinet has approved the inclusion of Shahbaz Sharif on the ECL as he's trying to flee the country," Shaikh Rashid said.He said that the government will challenge the Lahore High Court (LHC) decision to allow Shahbaz to go abroad for treatment, in the Supreme Court, today.Earlier on May 8, the PML-N leader was barred from flying from the Lahore airport to the UK via Qatar in the early hours of the day by the Federal Investigation Authority (FIA), hours after the LHC granted him permission to travel abroad once for medical treatment.On April 22, a referee bench of the LHC ruled in favour of granting bail to the leader of the opposition in the National Assembly in an asset beyond means and money laundering case, disagreeing with Justice Asjad Javed Ghural's dissenting note to the decision of Justice Sardar Muhammad Sarfraz Dogar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pak-pm-imran-khan-to-discuss-pml-n-leader-shahbaz-sharif-s-name-for-exit-control-list-101621222807152.html
17-05-2021||World||Covid-19: Schools in US 'under pressure' to reopen for in-person learning||Schools in United States are under pressure to open in-person learning given the authorization of a vaccine for children ages 12 to 15 and new federal guidance that vaccinated people do not need to wear face masks indoors or outdoors.Education Secretary Miguel Cardona in an interview with The Hill reiterated that he expects all schools to fully reopen in the fall and said the vaccine and mask guidance updates this week will likely adjust how schools plan for the next school year."I'm hopeful that with another month under our belt and continued lowered transmission rates, whatever fears some may have about fall are going to dissipate, and we're going to be able to return to school every day, all day for all children," Cardona said.The Education Department has not issued new guidance to schools at this point, but on Saturday the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) recommended the continued use of masks and social distancing in schools.The Pfizer-BioNTech authorization was granted for most high school-aged students after the administration said it achieved getting a majority of K-8 schools fully reopened by Biden's 100th day in office. Cardona said the administration needs to "aim higher" beyond the original goal and give high schoolers the same opportunity to return.More officials have joined in the appeals to reopen for the upcoming school year in recent days, including Biden's chief medical adviser Anthony Fauci, who said Thursday that school should be open "full blast" by the fall, as reported by the Hill.Randi Weingarten, the president of the American Federation of Teachers (AFT) -- the second-largest teachers union in the U.S. -- announced her support Thursday as well as a USD 5 million campaign to get educators to meet with parents about returning strategies and safety precautions.She told The Hill that vaccines became the "real game-changer" in the effort to get children back in schools, saying it's ramped up in the last few weeks amid a downturn in cases and emerging data on the vaccines' effectiveness."As a result, we felt that it was time to be unequivocal and unambiguous about reopening schools full time, and having the resources to recover and to reimagine," she said.Most parents have expressed support for their children to return to school in recent weeks, with a Hart Research study finding almost three in four parents backed a fully in-person school year starting in the fall, putting additional pressure on schools.The pandemic and the related school closures have pushed millions of women out of the workforce, as many had to end their employment in order to take care of their children as schools operated remotely, as reported by The Hill.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid19-schools-in-us-under-pressure-to-reopen-for-in-person-learning-101621217822209.html
17-05-2021||World||Israel kills 42 in Gaza as Netanyahu warns war will go on||Israeli airstrikes on Gaza City flattened three buildings and killed at least 42 people Sunday, Palestinian medics said — the deadliest single attack in the latest round of violence. Despite the toll and international efforts to broker a cease-fire, Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu signaled the fourth war with Gaza’s Hamas rulers would rage on.In a televised address, Netanyahu said the attacks were continuing at “full-force” and would “take time.“ Israel “wants to levy a heavy price” on the Hamas militant group, he said, flanked by his defense minister and political rival, Benny Gantz, in a show of unity.Hamas also pressed on, launching rockets from civilian areas in Gaza toward civilian areas in Israel. One slammed into a synagogue in the southern city of Ashkelon hours before evening services for the Jewish holiday of Shavuot, Israeli emergency services said. No injuries were reported.In the Israeli air assault, families were buried under piles of cement rubble and twisted rebar. A yellow canary lay crushed on the ground. Shards of glass and debris covered streets blocks away from the major downtown thoroughfare where the three buildings were hit over the course of five minutes around 1 a.m.The hostilities have repeatedly escalated over the past week, marking the worst fighting in the territory that is home to 2 million Palestinians since Israel and Hamas' devastating 2014 war.“I have not seen this level of destruction through my 14 years of work,” said Samir al-Khatib, an emergency rescue official in Gaza. “Not even in the 2014 war."Rescuers furiously dug through the rubble using excavators and bulldozers amid clouds of heavy dust. One shouted, “Can you hear me?” into a hole. Minutes later, first responders pulled a survivor out. The Gaza Health Ministry said 16 women and 10 children were among those killed, with more than 50 people wounded.Haya Abdelal, 21, who lives in a building next to one that was destroyed, said she was sleeping when the airstrikes sent her fleeing into the street. She accused Israel of not giving its usual warning to residents to leave before launching such an attack.“We are tired,” she said, “We need a truce. We can’t bear it anymore.”The Israeli army spokesperson’s office said the strike targeted Hamas “underground military infrastructure."As a result of the strike, “the underground facility collapsed, causing the civilian houses' foundations above them to collapse as well, leading to unintended casualties,” it said.Among those reported killed was Dr. Ayman Abu Al-Ouf, the head of the internal medicine department at Shifa Hospital and a senior member of the hospital's coronavirus management committee. Two of Abu Al-Ouf’s teenage children and two other family members were also buried under the rubble.The death of the 51-year-old physician “was a huge loss at a very sensitive time,” said Mohammed Abu Selmia, the director of Shifa.Gaza’s health care system, already gutted by an Israeli and Egyptian blockade imposed in 2007 after Hamas seized power from rival Palestinian forces, had been struggling with a surge in coronavirus infections even before the latest conflict.Israel's airstrikes have leveled a number of Gaza City’s tallest buildings, which Israel alleges contained Hamas military infrastructure. Among them was the building housing The Associated Press Gaza office and those of other media outlets.Sally Buzbee, the AP's executive editor, called for an independent investigation into the airstrike that destroyed the AP office on Saturday.Netanyahu alleged that Hamas military intelligence was operating inside the building and said Sunday any evidence would be shared through intelligence channels. Neither the White House nor the State Department would say if any had been seen.“It’s a perfectly legitimate target,” Netanyahu told CBS’s “Face the Nation."Asked if he had provided any evidence of Hamas’ presence in the building in a call Saturday with U.S. President Joe Biden, Netanyahu said: “We pass it through our intelligence people.”Buzbee called for any such evidence to be laid out. “We are in a conflict situation,” Buzbee said. “We do not take sides in that conflict. We heard Israelis say they have evidence; we don’t know what that evidence is.”Meanwhile, media watchdog Reporters Without Borders asked the International Criminal Court on Sunday to investigate Israel’s bombing of the AP building and others housing media organizations as a possible war crime.The Paris-based group said in a letter to the court’s chief prosecutor that the offices of 23 international and local media organizations have been destroyed over the past six days. It said the attacks serve “to reduce, if not neutralize, the media’s capacity to inform the public.”The AP had operated from the building for 15 years, including through three previous wars between Israel and Hamas. The news agency’s cameras, operating from its top floor office and roof terrace, offered 24-hour live shots as militant rockets arched toward Israel and Israeli airstrikes hammered the city and its surroundings.“We think it’s appropriate at this point for there to be an independent look at what happened yesterday — an independent investigation,” Buzbee said.The latest outbreak of violence began in east Jerusalem last month, when Palestinians clashed with police in response to Israeli police tactics during Ramadan and the threatened eviction of dozens of Palestinian families by Jewish settlers. A focus of the clashes was the Al-Aqsa Mosque, a frequent flashpoint located on a hilltop compound revered by both Muslims and Jews.Hamas began firing rockets toward Jerusalem on Monday, triggering the Israeli assault on Gaza.At least 188 Palestinians have been killed in hundreds of airstrikes in Gaza, including 55 children and 33 women, with 1,230 people wounded. Eight people in Israel have been killed in some of the 3,100 rocket attacks launched from Gaza, including a 5-year-old boy and a soldier.Hamas and the Islamic Jihad militant group have acknowledged 20 fighters killed in the fighting. Israel says the real number is far higher and has released the names and photos of two dozen alleged operatives it says were “eliminated.”The assault has displaced some 34,000 Palestinians from their homes, U.N. Mideast envoy Tor Wennesland told an emergency meeting of the U.N. Security Council, where eight foreign ministers spoke about the conflict.Efforts by China, Norway and Tunisia to get the U.N. body to issue a statement, including a call for the cessation of hostilities, have been blocked by the United States, which, according to diplomats, is concerned it could interfere with diplomatic efforts to stop the violence.Palestinian Foreign Minister Riad Al-Malki urged the Security Council to take action to end Israeli attacks. Israel’s U.N. ambassador, Gilad Erdan, urged the council to condemn Hamas' “indiscriminate and unprovoked attacks.”The turmoil has also fueled protests in the occupied West Bank and stoked violence within Israel between its Jewish and Arab citizens, with clashes and vigilante attacks on people and property.On Sunday, a driver rammed into an Israeli checkpoint in the east Jerusalem neighborhood of Sheikh Jarrah, where Palestinian families have been threatened with eviction , injuring six officers before police shot and killed the attacker, Israeli police said.The violence also sparked pro-Palestinian protests in cities across Europe and the United States.Israel appears to have stepped up strikes in recent days to inflict as much damage as possible on Hamas as international mediators work to end the fighting and stave off an Israeli ground invasion in Gaza.The Israeli military said it destroyed the home Sunday of Gaza’s top Hamas leader, Yahiyeh Sinwar, in the southern town of Khan Younis. It was the third such attack in the last two days on the homes of senior Hamas leaders, who have gone underground.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/israel-kills-42-in-gaza-as-netanyahu-warns-war-will-go-on-101621216101230.html
17-05-2021||World||Long working hours are a killer, WHO study shows||Working long hours is killing hundreds of thousands of people a year in a worsening trend that may accelerate further due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the World Health Organization said on Monday.In the first global study of the loss of life associated with longer working hours, the paper in the journal Environment International showed that 745,000 people died from stroke and heart disease associated with long working hours in 2016.That was an increase of nearly 30% from 2000."Working 55 hours or more per week is a serious health hazard," said Maria Neira, director of the WHO's Department of Environment, Climate Change and Health."What we want to do with this information is promote more action, more protection of workers," she said.The joint study, produced by the WHO and the International Labour Organization, showed that most victims (72%) were men and were middle-aged or older. Often, the deaths occurred much later in life, sometimes decades later, than the shifts worked.It also showed that people living in Southeast Asia and the Western Pacific region -- a WHO-defined region which includes China, Japan and Australia -- were the most affected.Overall, the study - drawing on data from 194 countries - said that working 55 hours or more a week is associated with a 35% higher risk of stroke and a 17% higher risk of dying from ischemic heart disease compared with a 35-40 hour working week.The study covered the period 2000-2016, and so did not include the COVID-19 pandemic, but WHO officials said the surge in remote working and the global economic slowdown resulting from the coronavirus emergency may have increased the risks."The pandemic is accelerating developments that could feed the trend towards increased working time," the WHO said, estimating that at least 9% of people work long hours.WHO staff, including its chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, say they have been working long hours during the pandemic and Neira said the U.N. agency would seek to improve its policy in light of the study.Capping hours would be beneficial for employers since that has been shown to increase worker productivity, WHO technical officer Frank Pega said."It's really a smart choice not to increase long working hours in an economic crisis."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/long-working-hours-are-a-killer-who-study-shows-101621215824064.html
17-05-2021||World||Microsoft investigated Bill Gates over 'relationship' with employee: Report||Board members at Microsoft Corp. made a decision in 2020 that it wasn't appropriate for its co-founder Bill Gates to continue sitting on its board as they investigated the billionaire’s prior romantic relationship with a female Microsoft employee that was deemed inappropriate, according to a report in The Wall Street Journal.Citing unnamed sources, The Journal reported online Sunday that board members looking into the matter hired a law firm in late 2019 to conduct an investigation after a Microsoft engineer alleged in a letter that she had a sexual relationship with Gates over several years.The Journal reported that Gates resigned before the board's investigation was finished, citing another person familiar with the matter.An unnamed spokeswoman for Gates acknowledged to The Journal that there was an affair almost 20 years ago, and that it ended “amicably." The spokesperson told The Journal that “his decision to transition off the board was in no way related to this matter.""When he left Microsoft's board last year, Gates said he was stepping down to focus on philanthropy.Microsoft couldn't be immediately reached for comment.Earlier this month, Bill and Melinda Gates announced that they were divorcing after 27 years of marriage but would keep working together at the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, one of the largest charitable foundations in the world. Gates was formerly the world’s richest person and his fortune is estimated at well over $100 billion.Earlier Sunday, The New York Times reported that Gates had developed “a reputation for questionable conduct in work-related settings."The Times reported that on at least a few occasions, Gates made overtures to women who worked for him at Microsoft and the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation. The Times cited people with direct knowledge of his behavior.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/microsoft-investigated-gates-over-relationship-with-employee-report-101621211906144.html
17-05-2021||World||Fauci says Covid-19 pandemic highlights racism's impact||The immunologist who leads the Covid-19 response in the United States said Sunday that “the undeniable effects of racism” have led to unacceptable health disparities that especially hurt African Americans, Hispanics and Native Americans during the pandemic.Covid-19 has highlighted “our own society’s failings,” Dr. Anthony Fauci said during a graduation ceremony for Emory University.Speaking by webcast from Washington, Fauci told the graduates in Atlanta that many members of minority groups work in essential jobs where they might be exposed to the coronavirus. He also said they are more likely to become infected if exposed because of medical conditions such as hypertension, chronic lung disease, diabetes or obesity.“Now, very few of these comorbidities have racial determinants,” Fauci said. “Almost all relate to the social determinants of health dating back to disadvantageous conditions that some people of color find themselves in from birth regarding the availability of an adequate diet, access to health care and the undeniable effects of racism in our society.”Fauci said correcting societal wrongs will take a commitment of decades, and he urged the graduates to be part of the solution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/fauci-says-covid-19-pandemic-highlights-racism-s-impact-101621212163149.html
17-05-2021||World||Covid-19: South Africa to vaccinate 5 million citizens at highest risk of dying||South Africa has announced an ambitious plan to vaccinate by the end of June its five million citizens at the highest risk of dying from COVID-19 in the second phase of its programme to combat the pandemic.Health Minister Zweli Mkhize said in a national television broadcast on Sunday evening that the first phase had ended on Friday with 478,000 of the planned 500,000 healthcare workers receiving the jab."These (remaining) doses will not be used for Phase 2 or Phase 3, but they will be used by the Medical Research Council to conduct some important studies and programmes that will help us to understand how vaccines work for population groups such as people living with HIV, and pregnant and lactating mothers," Mkhize said.The second phase starting on Monday will see vulnerable people such as those over 60 and those with comorbidities receiving priority before the general public can get vaccinated in the next phase.Mkhize said an overnight delivery of Pfizer vaccines on Sunday would bring the available doses in the country to just over 975,000."We will continue to vaccinate healthcare workers and complete the targeted 1.2 million healthcare workers in the coming week."We will also begin to vaccinate citizens 60 years and older who are most vulnerable of becoming ill or dying of COVID-19. Five million citizens are targeted to be completed by end of June, provided that the supply of vaccines flow as anticipated." the minister said."By the end of June we expect to have received 4.5 million doses of Pfizer and two million doses of Johnson and Johnson once (they are) released (after approval by the Food and Drug Administration in the US)," he said.Mkhize said vaccination would start on Monday at 87 sites across the country, 83 in the public sector and four in the private sector, all of which would be published for public information."We want to scale this up to just over 200 by the end of the week," Mkhize said as he explained that the remaining healthcare workers and those over 60 had already started receiving SMSs to indicate where and when they should report for their vaccinations.Electronic systems were set up a fortnight ago for people to register for vaccination."In all provinces, core teams are conducting robust registration drives and we are seeing that the numbers are already going up because these initiatives are making an impact on the community."To date, over 1.22 million senior citizens have registered," Mkhize said, adding that as the programme moves on, it might be possible for senior citizens who have not been able to register to walk in and get vaccinated, but not at this stage.The programme has been designed to avoid long queues, especially for senior citizens.Over 7,000 residents living in 102 old age homes will be visited personally to receive their vaccinations by the end of May as part of the rollout plan.The vaccination plans were announced soon after Premier David Makhura announced that South Africa's economic hub of Gauteng province was now officially in a third wave of the COVID-19 pandemic.For the first time in several weeks, South Africa recorded over 3,000 new coronavirus infections in a 24-hour period on Saturday.The Department of Health said 3,221 cases were confirmed, raising the infection count to 1,605,252. There had also been 44 more coronavirus-related deaths during this period, bringing the death toll since the pandemic started to 55,012.The recovery rate has dropped to 94.7 per cent, with 1,520,878 people recuperating so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid19-south-africa-launches-plan-to-vaccinate-citizens-at-highest-risk-of-dying-101621210106385.html
17-05-2021||World||UNICEF says rich countries can afford to donate Covax jabs||Countries belonging to the G7 and the European Union can afford to donate more than 150 million vaccines to countries in need without compromising their own goals, UNICEF said Monday.The world's seven richest states and the EU could help close the world's vaccine gap by sharing just 20 percent of their June, July and August stocks with the Covax jab scheme for poorer nations, a study by British firm Airfinity showed."And they could do this while still fulfilling their vaccination commitments to their own populations," UNICEF director Henrietta Fore said.The UK is due to host its fellow G7 member states Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan and the US for a summit in June.By that time UNICEF said the Covax programme being co-led by Gavi the Vaccine Alliance, along with the World Health Organization (WHO) and Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations (CEPI) will find itself 190 million doses short of what it had planned to distribute.The shortfall is in part due to a devastating flare-up of the virus in India, which was due to manufacture and export the majority of Covax doses and is now instead putting them to use at home.With additional shortages in supplies and funding, the statement called for swift action until more sustainable production models are within reach."Sharing immediately available excess doses is a minimum, essential and emergency stop-gap measure, and it is needed right now," it read.The US has 60 million AstraZeneca doses it could share, while France has pledged 500,000 doses and Sweden 1 million, with Switzerland considering a similar donation.- Yawning gap -Some 44 percent of the 1.4 billion doses of Covid-19 vaccines so far injected around the world have been administered in high-income countries accounting for 16 percent of the global population.Just 0.3 percent have been administered in the 29 lowest-income countries, home to nine percent of the world's population.The yawning gap spurred WHO chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus to ask vaccine-wealthy nations last Friday to refrain from giving jabs to children and adolescents and instead donate those doses to Covax.The urgency stems from more than mere fairness: wherever the virus continues to circulate it could give rise to more contagious or more deadly variants that could wipe out any progress toward immunity."We are concerned that the deadly spike in India is a precursor to what will happen if those warnings remain unheeded," says UNICEF."Cases are exploding and health systems are struggling in countries near -- like Nepal, Sri Lanka and Maldives -- and far, like Argentina and Brazil."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/unicef-says-rich-countries-can-afford-to-donate-covax-jabs-101621209782178.html
17-05-2021||World||Boris urges caution as B.1.617.2 variant from India clouds UK’s unlocking||UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson said the next step out of lockdown must be taken “with a heavy dose of caution” as more coronavirus restrictions are lifted on Monday.As the bans on international travel and households mixing indoors are relaxed, the National Health Service mobile app has started showing individuals’ vaccine status, a key step in the development of so-called Covid passports that will be key to enabling foreign trips.But the government is concerned that the highly transmissible virus strain that originated in India could lead to a major surge in cases, and is accelerating the vaccine rollout to people aged 35 and over this week in an attempt to contain the new variant.Johnson has already warned that the final stage of lifting restrictions, due on June 21, may be delayed amid rising concerns over the India strain, as he urged the public to use Monday’s freedoms with care.“We are keeping the spread of the variant first identified in India under close observation and taking swift action where infection rates are rising,” Johnson said in a statement released by his office. “The current data does not indicate unsustainable pressure on the NHS and our extraordinary vaccination program will accelerate – with second doses being bought forward to give the most vulnerable maximum protection.”Johnson is facing demands from within his own Conservative Party to stick to his planned timetable for lifting the lockdown -- or even speed it up in the light of a successful vaccination rollout. For businesses such as nightclubs, which are being required to wait until next month at the earliest to reopen, the threat of another surge in infections is a major worry.On Sunday, Health Secretary Matt Hancock cited “new very early data” from Oxford University that shows vaccines do appear to work against the India strain, which government medical advisers have said may be 40-50% easier to transmit. It’s not yet known how much more transmissible the strain is, Hancock said in an interview with Sky News. Government medical advisers have said it may be 40% to 50% easier to pass on.Hancock warned that it could “spread like wildfire among the unvaccinated groups” and urged people to come forward for shots when eligible. “We have a high degree of confidence that the vaccine will overcome” the disease, he said, citing positive “new very early data” from Oxford University.Vaccines WorkOxford University professor John Bell confirmed that vaccines appear to work against the new variant. “In terms of severe disease, hospital admissions and death, the vaccinated population are going to be fine, and we just need to pump our way through this,” he told Times Radio.The U.K. will offer inoculations to people aged 35 and over this week, Hancock told the BBC. “It’s about going as fast as we possibly can nationwide,” he said. Almost 70% of the adult population had at least one dose as of May 14 and 37% have had two shots.The number of confirmed infections of the B.1.617.2 variant more than doubled in the past week from 520 to 1,313, according to Public Health England. A cluster of cases in the northwestern English towns of Bolton, Blackburn and Darwen has prompted the government to deploy the army to assist in testing and vaccination efforts.Hancock said he couldn’t rule out local measures to contain outbreaks. “The approach we’re taking in Bolton and Blackburn is to absolutely pile in testing and vaccinations to try to get on top of this,” he told Sky.He defended the timing of the government’s restrictions on travel from India. “The evidence we had at the time was that the positivity of people coming from India was low at the start of April,” Hancock said. “When we saw it rising, we brought in the ‘red list’ restrictions. That was before we knew about this new variant.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/boris-urges-caution-as-b-1-617-2-variant-from-india-clouds-uk-s-unlocking-101621207719198.html
17-05-2021||World||Israel stages new round of heavy air strikes on Gaza City||Israeli warplanes unleashed a series of heavy airstrikes at several locations of Gaza City early Monday, hours after Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu signaled the fourth war with Gaza's Hamas rulers would rage on.Explosions rocked the city from north to south for 10 minutes in an attack that was heavier, on a wider area and lasted longer than a series of air raids 24 hours earlier in which 42 Palestinians were killed — the deadliest single attack in the latest round of violence between Israel and the Hamas militant group that rules Gaza.The earlier Israeli airstrikes flattened three buildings and killed at least 42 people Sunday, Palestinian medics said.In a televised address, Netanyahu said Israel's attacks were continuing at “full-force” and would “take time.“ Israel “wants to levy a heavy price” on the Hamas militant group, he said, flanked by his defense minister and political rival, Benny Gantz, in a show of unity.Hamas also pressed on, launching rockets from civilian areas in Gaza toward civilian areas in Israel. One slammed into a synagogue in the southern city of Ashkelon hours before evening services for the Jewish holiday of Shavuot, Israeli emergency services said. No injuries were reported.In the Israeli air assault early Sunday, families were buried under piles of cement rubble and twisted rebar. A yellow canary lay crushed on the ground. Shards of glass and debris covered streets blocks away from the major downtown thoroughfare where the three buildings were hit over the course of five minutes around 1 a.m.The hostilities have repeatedly escalated over the past week, marking the worst fighting in the territory that is home to 2 million Palestinians since Israel and Hamas' devastating 2014 war.“I have not seen this level of destruction through my 14 years of work,” said Samir al-Khatib, an emergency rescue official in Gaza. “Not even in the 2014 war."Rescuers furiously dug through the rubble using excavators and bulldozers amid clouds of heavy dust. One shouted, “Can you hear me?” into a hole. Minutes later, first responders pulled a survivor out. The Gaza Health Ministry said 16 women and 10 children were among those killed, with more than 50 people wounded.Haya Abdelal, 21, who lives in a building next to one that was destroyed, said she was sleeping when the airstrikes sent her fleeing into the street. She accused Israel of not giving its usual warning to residents to leave before launching such an attack.“We are tired,” she said, “We need a truce. We can’t bear it anymore.”The Israeli army spokesperson’s office said the strike targeted Hamas “underground military infrastructure."As a result of the strike, “the underground facility collapsed, causing the civilian houses' foundations above them to collapse as well, leading to unintended casualties,” it said.Among those reported killed was Dr. Ayman Abu Al-Ouf, the head of the internal medicine department at Shifa Hospital and a senior member of the hospital's coronavirus management committee. Two of Abu Al-Ouf’s teenage children and two other family members were also buried under the rubble.The death of the 51-year-old physician “was a huge loss at a very sensitive time,” said Mohammed Abu Selmia, the director of Shifa.Gaza’s health care system, already gutted by an Israeli and Egyptian blockade imposed in 2007 after Hamas seized power from rival Palestinian forces, had been struggling with a surge in coronavirus infections even before the latest conflict.Israel's airstrikes have leveled a number of Gaza City’s tallest buildings, which Israel alleges contained Hamas military infrastructure. Among them was the building housing The Associated Press Gaza office and those of other media outlets.Sally Buzbee, the AP's executive editor, called for an independent investigation into the airstrike that destroyed the AP office on Saturday.Netanyahu alleged that Hamas military intelligence was operating inside the building and said Sunday any evidence would be shared through intelligence channels. Neither the White House nor the State Department would say if any had been seen.“It’s a perfectly legitimate target,” Netanyahu told CBS’s “Face the Nation."Asked if he had provided any evidence of Hamas’ presence in the building in a call Saturday with U.S. President Joe Biden, Netanyahu said: “We pass it through our intelligence people.”Buzbee called for any such evidence to be laid out. “We are in a conflict situation,” Buzbee said. “We do not take sides in that conflict. We heard Israelis say they have evidence; we don’t know what that evidence is.”Meanwhile, media watchdog Reporters Without Borders asked the International Criminal Court on Sunday to investigate Israel’s bombing of the AP building and others housing media organizations as a possible war crime.The Paris-based group said in a letter to the court’s chief prosecutor that the offices of 23 international and local media organizations have been destroyed over the past six days. It said the attacks serve “to reduce, if not neutralize, the media’s capacity to inform the public.”The AP had operated from the building for 15 years, including through three previous wars between Israel and Hamas. The news agency’s cameras, operating from its top floor office and roof terrace, offered 24-hour live shots as militant rockets arched toward Israel and Israeli airstrikes hammered the city and its surroundings.“We think it’s appropriate at this point for there to be an independent look at what happened yesterday — an independent investigation,” Buzbee said.The latest outbreak of violence began in east Jerusalem last month, when Palestinians clashed with police in response to Israeli police tactics during Ramadan and the threatened eviction of dozens of Palestinian families by Jewish settlers. A focus of the clashes was the Al-Aqsa Mosque, a frequent flashpoint located on a hilltop compound revered by both Muslims and Jews.Hamas began firing rockets toward Jerusalem on Monday, triggering the Israeli assault on Gaza.At least 188 Palestinians have been killed in hundreds of airstrikes in Gaza, including 55 children and 33 women, with 1,230 people wounded. Eight people in Israel have been killed in some of the 3,100 rocket attacks launched from Gaza, including a 5-year-old boy and a soldier.Hamas and the Islamic Jihad militant group have acknowledged 20 fighters killed in the fighting. Israel says the real number is far higher and has released the names and photos of two dozen alleged operatives it says were “eliminated.”The assault has displaced some 34,000 Palestinians from their homes, U.N. Mideast envoy Tor Wennesland told an emergency meeting of the U.N. Security Council, where eight foreign ministers spoke about the conflict.Efforts by China, Norway and Tunisia to get the U.N. body to issue a statement, including a call for the cessation of hostilities, have been blocked by the United States, which, according to diplomats, is concerned it could interfere with diplomatic efforts to stop the violence.Palestinian Foreign Minister Riad Al-Malki urged the Security Council to take action to end Israeli attacks. Israel’s U.N. ambassador, Gilad Erdan, urged the council to condemn Hamas' “indiscriminate and unprovoked attacks.”The turmoil has also fueled protests in the occupied West Bank and stoked violence within Israel between its Jewish and Arab citizens, with clashes and vigilante attacks on people and property.On Sunday, a driver rammed into an Israeli checkpoint in the east Jerusalem neighborhood of Sheikh Jarrah, where Palestinian families have been threatened with eviction , injuring six officers before police shot and killed the attacker, Israeli police said.The violence also sparked pro-Palestinian protests in cities across Europe and the United States.Israel appears to have stepped up strikes in recent days to inflict as much damage as possible on Hamas as international mediators work to end the fighting and stave off an Israeli ground invasion in Gaza.The Israeli military said it destroyed the home Sunday of Gaza’s top Hamas leader, Yahiyeh Sinwar, in the southern town of Khan Younis. It was the third such attack in the last two days on the homes of senior Hamas leaders, who have gone underground.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/israel-stages-new-round-of-heavy-air-strikes-on-gaza-city-101621207395491.html
17-05-2021||World||Scientists work on drug in bid to tackle variants||Canadian and American researchers have claimed to have developed an antiviral drug that is most potent” yet in countering the Covid-19 virus’s variants of concern (VOCs).The drug called N-0385 “blocks the Sars-CoV-2 virus from entering human cells through its favoured cell gateways”, according to a release from Vancouver-based University of British Columbia. A preprint version of the study on the new drug has been uploaded on website of the journal BioRXiv.Other institutes that were associated in developing the drug are Universite de Sherbrooke in Quebec and US-based Cornell University.Meanwhile, schools in the US should continue to use masks for the 2020-21 academic year as all students will not be fully vaccinated, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) has said.Four months into its stuttering Covid-19 vaccination campaign, Brazil is struggling to find enough doses. Around 33mn - 15% of the population - have received at least one dose, a proportion still too small to have a substantial impact.A truncated version of a chariot festival took place on Saturday in Nepal’s capital amid strict Covid-19 restrictions.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/scientists-work-on-drug-in-bid-to-tackle-variants-101621201252155.html
17-05-2021||World||Israel-Palestine conflict: ‘Appalling’, ‘war crimes’ echo at UNSC meet||N secretary-general Antonio Guterres told the UN Security Council on Sunday that hostilities in Israel and Gaza were “utterly appalling” and called for an end to fighting.Opening the 15-member council’s first public meeting on the conflict, Guterres said the UN is “actively engaging all sides towards an immediate ceasefire”.The council met privately twice last week over the violence, but has been unable to agree on a public statement because the US - a strong ally of Israel - did not believe it would be helpful, diplomats said.Palestinian foreign minister Riyad al-Maliki accused Israel of “war crimes” as he urged international pressure at the UNSC session. “Some may not want to use these words - war crimes and crimes against humanity - but they know they are true,” Maliki told the virtual session.China said the US had blocked its efforts for “strong action” - and invited Israelis and Palestinians to negotiate. “Regrettably, simply because of the obstruction of one country, the security council hasn’t been able to speak with one voice,” foreign minister Wang Yi said.The US has insisted it is working behind the scenes and that a UN statement could backfire. Linda Thomas-Greenfield, the US envoy to the UN, stopped short of insisting on a ceasefire and said the Biden administration was in touch with all sides including Qatar, which has close ties with Hamas, and Egypt, which has a peace deal with Israel and borders Gaza.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/israelpalestine-conflict-appalling-war-crimes-echo-at-unsc-meet-101621201106070.html
17-05-2021||World||Deadliest day in Gaza so far||Israeli airstrikes on Gaza City flattened three buildings and killed at least 42 people on Sunday, Palestinian medics said, while wounded Palestinians were being taken across the Rafah border crossing into Egypt for treatment.Despite efforts to broker a ceasefire, Israeli PM Benjamin Netanyahu signalled that the conflict with Gaza’s Hamas rulers would rage on. He said the attacks were continuing at “full force” and will “take time”. He also alleged that Hamas military intelligence was operating inside the building that Israel had bombed on Saturday. It housed the offices of Associated Press and Al Jazeera.The Israeli air assault early on Sunday was the deadliest single attack since fighting broke out between Israel and Hamas a week ago, marking the worst fighting here since their devastating 2014 war in Gaza.Gaza’s health ministry said 16 women and 10 children were among those killed, with more than 50 people wounded, and rescue efforts were underway.The Israeli military said it destroyed the home of Gaza’s top Hamas leader, Yahiyeh Sinwar, in a strike in the southern town of Khan Younis. At least 188 Palestinians have been killed in Gaza, including 55 children and 33 women, with 1,230 people wounded, while at least eight people in Israel have been killed.Hamas and other militant groups have fired some 2,900 rockets into Israel.The violence sparked pro-Palestinian protests in cities across Europe and the US, with French police firing tear gas and water cannon at protesters in Paris.The US, meanwhile, has reaffirmed its support for Israel while working to de-escalate the crisis. US diplomat Hady Amr met with Benny Gantz, the Israeli defence minister, who thanked the US for its support.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/deadliest-day-in-gaza-so-far-as-101621200503642.html
17-05-2021||India||Delhi HC reserves judgement on plea seeking to halt Central Vista project||The Delhi High Court on Monday reserved the judgement on a plea seeking direction to halt or suspend all construction activity of the Central Vista Avenue Redevelopment Project after the conclusion of the arguments of lawyers of all sides.The Delhi High Court was hearing a plea seeking direction to halt/suspend all construction activity of the Central Vista Avenue Redevelopment Project in compliance with orders issued by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) during the subsistence of the peak phase of the Covid-19 pandemic.The bench of Justices DN Patel and Jyoti Singh on Monday concluded the argument of lawyers of all sides and reserved its judgement on the plea.Solicitor General Tushar Mehta appearing for the Union of India opposed the plea and said his arguments are based on facts and read out notification of April. He pointed out that the present petition is only concerned with Central Vista and not about other constructions.Mehta argued that here, the public interest is "very selective" in particular regarding the Central Vista project matter. He said the petitioner is not concerned about other workmen and other construction works that are going on maybe 2-3 km away from there."There is something unusual, and beyond what is portrayed as public interest. This is a facade of PIL to disguise something they always wanted to stop under one pretext or the other," Mehta submitted.In its reply, the Centre had called the plea "sheer abuse of the process of law and is one more attempt to stall the project" and urged the High Court to dismiss the petition with exemplary costs on the ground that it is an abuse of the process of law."Such attempts are going on since the inception of the project under one pretext or the other and in one name or the other. The following facts will satisfy this court that the petitioner has, while taking refuge under the present situation, made an attempt to stall the project under the garb of 'public interest'," the Centre said in its affidavit.After Mehta concluded his submission, Advocate Maninder Singh appearing for the Shapoorji Pallonji Group also opposed the PIL seeking suspension of construction activity for the Central Vista project.Advocate Singh said the petition is not bonafide. He submitted that the petitioner's lawyer had cited some media reports during his arguments, which are not admissible under law.Meanwhile, senior advocate Siddharth Luthra appearing for petitioner submitted that Central Vista shall now be called "Central Fortress of Death". He questioned if the deadline of November 30 is so sacrosanct that all of Article 19 and 21 should be thrown away.On May 7, the Supreme Court urged the Delhi High Court to consider the Public Interest Litigation (PIL) filed by petitioner Anya Malhotra seeking a stay on construction work of the Central Vista project in New Delhi amid the prevailing condition of coronavirus cases across the country and asked High Court to issue orders related to the matter.In December 2020, the Central Vista Development project was inaugurated by the Prime Minister. The Project intends to revamp 86 acres of land in Delhi, which includes Rajpath, Parliament House, Rashtrapati Bhavan, India Gate, North Block and South Block, Shastri Bhavan and Udyog Bhavan.The project envisages the construction of a new Parliament building, a common secretariat for central government offices, the Prime Minister's office and residence, the Special Protection Group building and the Vice-President Enclave. The construction work for the project is being carried out since January 5, 2021, after the top court dismissed petitions challenging the project.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-hc-reserves-judgement-on-plea-seeking-to-halt-central-vista-project-101621257831459.html
17-05-2021||India||News updates from HT: All 4 Bengal ministers arrested by CBI in Narada scam case get bail and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.All 4 Bengal ministers arrested by CBI in Narada scam case get bailA special court granted interim bail to three ministers of Mamata Banerjee-led West Bengal government and a former Kolkata mayor who were arrested by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) sleuths earlier on Monday got interim bail. Read moreHow did cyclone Tauktae get its name? What does it mean?Cyclone Tauktae (pronounced as Tau’Te) intensified into a ‘very severe cyclonic storm’ and is approaching the Gujarat coast, leaving a trail of destruction behind. Read moreAhead of FATF review, Pakistan announces new measures on terror financingWith a little more than a month to go for a review of Pakistan’s counter-terror financing regime by the Financial Action Task Force (FATF), Islamabad has put measures in place to ensure such offences are investigated by specialised agencies. Read moreRajnath reviews military’s preparations for cyclone relief; warships on standbyWith Tauktae intensifying from a very severe to an extremely severe cyclonic storm, defence minister Rajnath Singh on Monday reviewed the military’s preparations to provide humanitarian assistance and disaster relief to states affected by the cyclone even as warships and rescue teams are on standby for relief work, officials familiar with the development said. Read moreWTC Final against New Zealand will be a big first for Team India in Test cricketThe World Test Championship Final between India and New Zealand at Southampton will be a unique match in the history of Indian cricket. Read moreRam Gopal Varma, who once praised Kangana Ranaut's acting, hints his opinions might changeRam Gopal Varma might have agreed with Kangana Ranaut's claims about being a more versatile actor than even Hollywood legends such as Meryl Streep in March. However, the filmmaker has hinted that he could take a U-turn on his opinion in the future. Read moreWatch: Stone pelting, baton charge amid TMC protest against CBI in Kolkata||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-all-4-bengal-ministers-arrested-by-cbi-in-narada-scam-case-get-bail-and-all-the-latest-news-101621262284209.html
17-05-2021||India||PM Modi lauds exemplary fight by doctors in second Covid-19 wave, discusses vaccine plan and black fungus||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday interacted with a group of doctors from across the country in a video conference to discuss the Covid-19 related situation, a statement from the Prime Minister's Office (PMO) said.The Prime Minister used the meeting to thank India's medical fraternity and the paramedical staff for their exemplary fight against the deadly viral contagion which has infected 24,965,463 and killed at least 274,390."The Prime Minister thanked the entire medical fraternity & the paramedical staff for the exemplary fight displayed by them against the extraordinary circumstances of the second wave of Covid, adding that the entire country is indebted to them," the PMO statement read.PM Modi also noted that the country is fighting the disease at a swift pace, including extra efforts made by MBBS students, Asha and Anganwadi workers."He noted that be it testing, supply of medicines or set-up of new infrastructure in record time, all these are being done at a fast pace. Several challenges of oxygen production and supply are being overcome. The steps taken by the country to augment human resources, like including MBBS students in Covid treatment, and ASHAs and Anganwadi workers in rural areas, provided extra support to the health system," the statement added.Stating that India's staggered vaccination policy has aided the country's fight, the PMO statement said, "Prime Minister underlined that the strategy of starting vaccination programmes with front line warriors has paid rich dividends in the second wave."About 90% of the health professionals in the country have already taken the first dose and the vaccines have ensured the safety of most of the doctors, the statement read.The meeting between PM Modi and a group of doctors comes as the trajectory of new infections for the entire country appeared to show signs of receding from a peak over the past week, according to data.For the first time since the second wave of the coronavirus pandemic hit the country, the number of active cases in the country began inching down – a crucial development as the onslaught of the second wave was marked by a soaring number of active cases, which resulted in shortages of vital supplies such as medical oxygen, life-saving drugs, hospital beds and ambulance services.A total of 281,911 new cases were reported on Sunday, the lowest in 27 days, taking the total number of infections in the country since the start of the outbreak to 24,964,718, according to Hindustan Times’ Covid-19 dashboard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-lauds-exemplary-fight-by-doctors-in-second-covid-19-wave-discusses-vaccine-plan-and-mucormycosis-black-fungus-101621260562923.html
17-05-2021||India||CoWIN portal in Hindi, other languages from next week: Govt||The CoWIN portal will be made available in Hindi and 14 regional languages by next week, while 17 more laboratories will be added to the INSACOG network to monitor the variants of Covid-19, the health ministry said on Monday.According to a statement by the ministry, these decisions were announced at the 26th meeting of the high-level Group of Ministers (GoM) on Covid-19, chaired by Health Minister Harsh Vardhan, on Monday.Vardhan informed his colleagues that 17 new laboratories are going to be added to the INSACOG network to increase the number of samples screened and allow for more spatial analysis, the ministry said.The network is presently served by 10 laboratories located at different corners of the country.Speaking on their contribution to the country's achievements today, Vardhan said, "India's new Covid-19 cases have dropped to less than three lakh for the first time after 26 days. Also, a net decline of 1,01,461 cases has been recorded in the active caseload in the last 24 hours."He lauded the efforts of defence scientists and the leadership of Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and Prime Minister Narendra Modi for launching the country's first indigenous anti-COVID drug, 2-deoxy-D-glucose or 2-DG (developed by the DRDO in collaboration with the INMAS and the Hyderabad-based Dr Reddy's Laboratories), the ministry said.The research efforts for the drug started in April last year and ended recently, when the DCGI gave it the emergency-use approval (EUA). The minister informed the members that the drug can become a gamechanger in the country's response to the pandemic as it reduces the dependence of patients on oxygen administration and has the potential of getting absorbed differentially and in a selected manner. In the COVID-infected cells, it inhibits virus synthesis and energy production for the process.He noted that the Centre continues to help the states under a "whole of government" approach to tide over the pandemic. Over 4.22 crore N95 masks, 1.76 crore PPE kits, 52.64 lakh Remdesivir injections and 45,066 ventilators were distributed among the states and Union territories, according to the statement.The Union health secretary apprised the meeting that the CoWIN platform is being made available in Hindi and 14 regional languages by next week.Dr Sujeet K Singh, Director, NCDC, presented a detailed report on the mutations of SARS-CoV-2 and the Variants of Concern (VoCs) being reported in India. He showed figures related to the state-wise prevalence of VoCs like the B.1.1.7 and B.1.617. The B.1.1.7 lineage (UK variant) was found predominant in the samples collected in Punjab and Chandigarh between February and March, the statement said.Dr Balaram Bhargava, Secretary, Health Research and DG, ICMR, made a presentation on the innovative changes in testing policy that would widen its scope of application and help in mass screening for COVID, particularly in peri-urban and rural settings, where the health infrastructure is relatively weak.Deployment of mobile RT-PCR testing vans and amplification of RAT tests were presented as the way forward. While the present capacity is around 25 lakh (RTPCR 13 lakh, RAT 12 lakh), this is projected to exponentially increase to 45 lakh (RTPCR 18 lakh, RAT 27 lakh) under the new testing regimen.The DG, ICMR also informed regarding the home-isolation guidelines, which have been converted into Hindi and other regional languages for a wider reach. Warning signs for hospitalisation, admission to ICU and for potential administration of Remdesivir and Tocilizumab were also highlighted.S Aparna, Secretary (Pharma) informed that a dedicated cell has been created to coordinate production and allocation of the drugs in demand to treat COVID-19.Stress was laid on the procurement and allocation of Remdesivir, Tocilizumab and Amphotericin-B. She notified that the demand for Favipiravir too has increased, although the drug is not recommended in COVID medical guidelines. She suggested IEC campaigns for a judicious use of these drugs.The secretary (pharma) also highlighted that Remdesivir production has more than tripled in the country with government intervention from around 39 lakh to 1.18 crore vials per month.The demand for Amphotericin-B, which is used in the treatment of mucormycosis, has also increased. Five suppliers have been identified and efforts are being made for an optimal allocation of the drug. The states were given one lakh vials from May 1-14, while avenues for import are being actively explored, the statement said.The secretary (pharma) further emphasised that the states must make an equitable distribution among the government and the private hospitals and keep the public informed on availability and shop details, help prevent unnecessary stockpiling and ensure timely payments to the manufacturers.Vardhan expressed his appreciation to all COVID warriors who have remained steadfast in their duty during the pandemic, "without showing any signs of deprivation and fatigue".He was joined by Minister of External Affairs S Jaishankar, Minister of Civil Aviation Hardeep S Puri, Minister of State for Ports, Shipping and Waterways (I/C) and Chemical and Fertilisers Mansukh Mandaviya and Minister of State, Ministry of Home Affairs Nityanand Rai. Ashwini Kumar Choubey, Minister of State for Health, joined the meet digitally.Dr Vinod K Paul, Member (Health), NITI Aayog was also present virtually.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cowin-portal-in-hindi-other-languages-from-next-week-govt-101621257873752.html
17-05-2021||India||3 Trinamool MLAs, former leader arrested by CBI in Narada scam case get bail||A special court on Monday granted interim bail to two sitting ministers of Mamata Banerjee-led West Bengal government, another senior MLA and a former Kolkata mayor who were arrested by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) sleuths earlier in the day.On Monday, CBI detained the three Trinamool Congress leaders -- Firhad Hakim, Subrata Mukherjee, Madan Mitra -- and former Kolkata mayor Sovan Chatterjee in connection with the 2014 Narada sting operation case and took them to Nizam Palace, the regional headquarters of the central probe agency in Kolkata.ALSO READ: ‘Arrest me’: Mamata Banerjee tells CBI after 4 held in Narada sting operation caseThey were virtually produced before the special court of Justice Anupam Mukherjee, who granted them bail on grounds that the CBI had not sought custody of the four accused for interrogation but prayer was for judicial custody which cannot be aground for detention of the arrested persons. The CBI had sought 14-day judicial custody for the accused ministers.While granting interim bail the court relied upon the recent judgment of the Supreme Court which urged decongestion of prisons to avoid the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases. The court, however, asked the four accused to furnish personal bail bonds of ₹50,000 each.The CBI said they move the Calcutta high court against the decision of the lower court.While Firhad Hakim and Subrata Mukherjee are sitting ministers in the state cabinet Madan Mitra is an elected MLA. Hakim is also the chairman of the board of administrators of Kolkata municipal corporation.Following the arrest, chief minister Mamata Banerjee rushed to the CBI’s office at Nizam Palace in south Kolkata. “Mamata told the CBI officials that she should also be arrested,” said a TMC leader, aware of the development.WATCH: CBI arrests Firhad Hakim, two other TMC MLAs in Narada case, protests break outLast week, Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar had accorded prosecution sanction to the CBI against the three ministers and the former TMC leader.The case pertains to a sting operation by journalist Mathew Samuel in 2014, where he posed as a businessman and offered between ₹4 and 5 lakh to the then TMC Rajya Sabha MP Mukul Roy, the then Lok Sabha MPs Saugata Roy, Aparupa Poddar, Sultan Ahmed, Prasun Banerjee and Kakoli Ghosh Dastidar; the then ministers Firhad Hakim, Suvendu Adhikari, Sovan Chatterjee (who was also the Kolkata mayor) Subrata Mukherjee and Madan Mitra.In the video, that surfaced two years later in March 2016, shortly before the assembly elections in the state, the leaders were purportedly seen accepting cash from the representative of a fictitious company in exchange for doling out favours to them.The then MLA Iqbal Ahmed and IPS officer Saiyaad Mustafa Hussain Mirza were also caught on camera. Among these people, Mukul Roy could not been seen in the videos accepting the cash directly but the money was purportedly taken by Mirza, according to Mathew.Mukul Roy and Suvendu Adhikari has joined the Bharatiya Janata Party, meanwhile. Sovan Chatterjee also joined the BJP prior to the assembly polls but left the party following differences with the leadership.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-trinamool-mlas-former-leader-arrested-by-cbi-in-narada-scam-case-get-bail-101621260967159.html
17-05-2021||India||Explained: How Cyclone Tauktae got its name and what it means||Cyclone Tauktae (pronounced as Tau’Te) that intensified into an ‘extremely severe cyclonic storm’ made a landfall on Gujarat coast late on Monday evening with windspeed between 150kmph and 160kmph, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said, leaving a trail of destruction behind.The centre of the cyclone will cross Saurashtra coast, 30km to the east of Diu within next three hours, as the landfall process continues, the latest data shared by the IMD on Twitter showed.CLICK HERE FOR LATEST UPDATES ON CYCLONE TAUKTAEMeanwhile, Gujarat government has shifted over 1.5 lakh people to safety and has mobilised disaster response teams.While the country watches the progress of the cyclone with bated breath, the Internet is in splits over the peculiar name, Tauktae.What is a tropical cyclone?A tropical cyclone is an intense circular storm that originates over warm tropical oceans and is characterised by low atmospheric pressure, strong winds followed by heavy rainfall. Tropical cyclones always have an eye, a central region of clear skies and warm temperatures.Also Watch | Cyclone Tauktae weakens after landfall in Gujarat; leaves trail of destructionHow did 2021’s first storm in India get its name?The cyclone has been given the name ‘Tauktae’ (pronounced Tau’Te) by Myanmar. It means 'gecko', a highly vocal lizard, in Burmese dialect.Currently list 1 is going on. So many are yet to come. pic.twitter.com/WactuXyNQeHow are cyclones across the globe named?The World Meteorological Organisation and UN Economic and Social Commission for Asia and Pacific (UN ESCAP) led Panel on Tropical Cyclones – a global body which also includes regional specialised meteorological centres (RSMC) as well as tropical cyclone warning centres -- prepares the names of the cyclones.Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) is among six RSMCs in the world, is mandated to issue advisories and name tropical cyclones in the north Indian Ocean region.Which countries name the cyclones?The panel comprising 13 countries, including India, Bangladesh, Myanmar, Pakistan, the Maldives, Oman, Sri Lanka, Thailand, Iran, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates and Yemen, name cyclones in the region. In 2020, a new list of names was released that had 169 names of cyclones, having 13 suggested names each from 13 countries.Why are the cyclones named?The cyclones are named to identify the storms to send out warning notifications about their development. As the technical names could be difficult for the common people to remember and spread awareness on, naming them gives an unique idenitfier to these cyclones and makes it easier for the media and various authorities to disseminate information on them.What will be the next cyclone called?The list of 13 names prepared by each of the 13 nations are out in public domain. The next cyclone in the region will be called 'Yaas', a name given by Oman, while the one after that will be called 'Gulab' as recommended by Pakistan. At present the first list is in use. Once the names in the first list are exhausted, the second list of the names in the table will be used, and so on.Till Monday evening, the gusty winds and heavy showers from the impact of the cyclonic storm lashed Mumbai and its neighbouring areas, leading to disruption of train services in the city.The cyclone has left a trail of death and destruction in parts of Kerala and Goa, too, as it passed along the western coast of the country over the Arabian Sea.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-did-cyclone-tauktae-get-its-name-what-does-it-mean-101621260333642.html
17-05-2021||India||Ahead of FATF review, Pakistan announces new measures on terror financing||With a little more than a month to go for a review of Pakistan’s counter-terror financing regime by the Financial Action Task Force (FATF), Islamabad has put measures in place to ensure such offences are investigated by specialised agencies.However, experts believe the steps taken by Pakistan may still not be adequate for the country to get off the multilateral watchdog’s “grey list”, given the lingering suspicions about its commitment to crack down on terror groups. In this regard, the experts pointed to the UK’s recent decision to include Pakistan in a list of “high-risk countries” for terror financing and money laundering. At its last plenary meeting in February, FATF retained Pakistan in its “grey list” and urged the country to complete an action plan to counter terror financing before June. It said the country had “largely addressed” 24 of the 27 items in the action plan, but FATF president Marcus Pleyer pointed out the remaining deficiencies were all “serious”.FATF had specifically asked Pakistan to show that terror financing investigations and prosecutions were targeting UN-designated terrorists and their proxies, that prosecutions were resulting in effective and dissuasive sanctions, and that targeted financial sanctions against UN-designated terrorists and their proxies were being effectively implemented.Ahead of FATF’s virtual plenary meeting during June 21-25, the Pakistan government has approved new rules for the forfeiture and auction of properties and assets related to anti-money laundering cases and the transfer of investigation and prosecution of such cases from police and provincial authorities to specialised agencies.The AML (Forfeited Properties Management) Rules 2021 and AML (Referral) Rules 2021 were approved by Pakistan’s federal cabinet earlier this month, the Dawn newspaper reported. The newspaper cited its sources as saying that these measures were aimed at addressing the three outstanding items of FATF’s action plan.All investigating and prosecuting agencies will exchange financial intelligence and information about properties to ensure expeditious confiscation and forfeiture under the new rules.Besides the Asia Pacific Group (APG), a key part of FATF, conducting an assessment of Pakistan’s case this month, several review meetings to be held in the coming days will also be crucial for determining whether the country has done enough to address shortcomings in its counter-terror financing regime, people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity.FATF’s evaluations and compliance group will hold virtual meetings on June 14, 15 and 17, while the risk, trends and methods group will hold a virtual meeting on June 16. However, questions about the counter-terror financing measures put in place by Pakistan remain as the UK recently included the country in a list of 21 nations at high risk of terror financing and money laundering. Pakistan’s Foreign Office contended last month that the move by the UK wasn’t based on facts. The UK notified the list of 21 high-risk countries as part of an amendment of money laundering and terror financing regulations following its exit from the European Union.Sameer Patil, fellow for international security studies at Gateway House, said Pakistan has been putting up a “facade of a crackdown on terror groups”.“The fact of the matter is that Pakistan initiated these measures weeks before the FATF’s plenary meeting, which shows its intention of hoodwinking FATF into thinking it is acting on the remaining items in the action plan. But Pakistan is not serious about addressing the vast so-called charity networks of terror groups which act as a backbone for fund-raising and anti-India activities,” he said.“When there was global scrutiny on Lashkar-e-Taiba founder Hafiz Saeed, Pakistan promptly detained him but we have heard nothing of action against Jaish-e-Mohammed chief Masood Azhar and his operational commanders,” Patil added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahead-of-fatf-review-pakistan-announces-new-measures-on-terror-financing-101621257850645.html
17-05-2021||India||Suspected symptoms of thromboembolic events after Covid-19 vaccination. All you need to know||As the National AEFI (Adverse Event Following Immunization) Committee in a report to the Union ministry of health revealed that there are 26 potential cases of thromboembolic in the country, the ministry issued advisories to healthcare workers and vaccine beneficiaries to make them aware of the symptoms of the adverse effects of the AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccination.Thromboembolic events refer to the formation of a clot in a blood vessel that might also break loose and be carried by the bloodstream to plug another vessel."The AEFI Committee has completed an in-depth case review of 498 serious and severe events, of which 26 cases have been reported to be potential thromboembolic (formation of a clot in a blood vessel that might also break loose and carried by the blood stream to plug another vessel) events – following the administration of Covishield vaccine – with a reporting rate of 0.61 cases/ million doses," the panel said in the report.Also read: CDC chief wants unvaccinated people to be ‘honest with themselves’. Here’s whyThe AEFI panel in the report said that the reporting rate of thromboembolic events in India amounts to 0.61 cases per million. It showed the minuscule but definitive risk of thromboembolic events from the administration of the Covishield vaccine. Covishield is the Oxford/AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine produced in India by the Serum Institute of India.The report also revealed that no potential thromboembolic events were reported following administration of the Covaxin vaccine. Covaxin is India's homegrown shot against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) produced by Bharat Biotech in Hyderabad.Following the revelations, the ministry of health issued advisories to inform people of the suspected thromboembolic symptoms occurring within 20 days after receiving any Covid-19 vaccine, particularly Covishield. The ministry aimed to encourage people to preferably report to the health facility where the shot was administered in case any symptoms of the thromboembolic events appear.The government mentioned these as the symptoms for the thromboembolic events that might occur:· Breathlessness· Pain in the chest· Pain in limbs or pain on pressing limbs or swelling in limbs (arm or calf)· Multiple, pinhead-size red spots or bruising of skin in an area beyond the injection site· Persistent abdominal pain with or without vomiting· Seizures in the absence of previous history of seizures with or without vomiting· Severe and persistent headache with or without vomiting (in the absence of previous history of migraine or chronic headache)· Weakness or paralysis of limbs or any particular side or part of the body (including face)· Persistent vomiting without any obvious reason· Blurred vision or pain in eyes or having double vision· Change in mental status or having confusion or depressed level of consciousnessAlso read: Jaipur engineer, worried about critically-ill Covid +ve father, dies by suicideThe decision to conduct the in-depth analysis came after alerts were raised in many countries on post-vaccination thrombotic events on March 11, particularly related with Oxford/AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine.Meanwhile, the ministry ascertained that the benefits from Covid-19 vaccination outweigh its risks. Covishield continues to have a positive benefit risk profile with tremendous potential to prevent infections and reduce deaths due to the virus in India and across the world. More than 13.4 crore doses of Covishield vaccine have been administered as on April 27, the ministry informed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/suspected-symptoms-of-thromboembolic-events-after-covid-19-vaccination-all-you-need-to-know-101621252017055.html
17-05-2021||India||India will provide liquid oxygen to Nepal within 8-10 days: Ambassador Kwatra||As oxygen shortage hits Nepal due to rising cases of coronavirus, India has promised to send tankers of liquid oxygen to Nepal.Indian Ambassador to Nepal Vinay Mohan Kwatra, in a virtual event held on Monday, announced the arrival of liquid oxygen in Nepal from India within 8 to 10 days."India will continue helping and assisting Nepal at the hour of crisis. 2.3 million doses of Covishield vaccine have already been delivered. Within another 8 to 10 days, tankers with liquid oxygen would arrive in Nepal," ambassador Kwatra said.Inaugurating an isolation centre in the capital Kathmandu, Ambassador Kwatra also stated that the ongoing pandemic only can end through a combined effort of individuals, communities and the government.The new isolation centre set up at Agrawal Bhawan in Kathmandu has a capacity to hold 90 coronavirus-infected patients with two people in each room.Nepal on Monday recorded 214 deaths due to Covid-19 and 9,198 fresh cases, taking the nationwide tally of coronavirus cases to 464,218, The Himalayan Times reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-will-provide-liquid-oxygen-to-nepal-within-8-10-days-ambassador-kwatra-101621254968659.html
17-05-2021||India||In Photos: Cyclone Tauktae lashes Mumbai coast, drenches city||Cyclone Tauktae rapidly intensified from a very severe to an extremely severe cyclonic storm on Monday morning. IMD predicts it would reach Gujarat on Monday evening and cross the Gujarat coast on Monday night between 8pm and 11pm.Heavy rains, gusty winds, and water logging was reported all over Mumbai as Tauktae skirted the city's coast as it went from a Category 1 storm to a Category 4 storm. It even managed to bring ongoing vaccination drive to a sudden halt.The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) took to Twitter to urge Mumbaikars to stay indoors and "enjoy the weather". Bandra-Worli Sea Link was closed off, and operations were halted at the Chhatrapati Shivaji International airport till 8pm on Monday as an added precautionary measure.A glimpse of what Mumbai and many other cities experienced as Cyclone Tauktae raged on has been depicted in the photos below.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-photos-cyclone-tauktae-lashes-mumbai-coast-drenches-city-101621250128771.html
17-05-2021||India||Rajnath reviews military’s preparations for cyclone relief; warships on standby||With Tauktae intensifying from a very severe to an extremely severe cyclonic storm, defence minister Rajnath Singh on Monday reviewed the military’s preparations to provide humanitarian assistance and disaster relief to states affected by the cyclone even as warships and rescue teams are on standby for relief work, officials familiar with the development said.Three warships (Talwar, Tarkash and Tabar) are on standby with relief material for immediate assistance to affected areas if required, the defence ministry said in a statement, adding that more warships can be diverted to provide assistance to stranded fishing boats.The minister was also informed at the meeting that 11 Indian Navy diving teams have also been kept on standby in case of any request from affected states.“Twelve flood rescue teams and medical teams have been earmarked for immediate response and deployment. Repair and rescue teams have also been formed to undertake urgent infrastructure repairs post cyclone, if required,” the ministry said. The navy’s maritime reconnaissance aircraft are also broadcasting cyclone warnings to fishermen.Click here for LIVE Update of Cyclone TauktaeThose who attended the meeting included the chief of defence staff and the three service chiefs.Army columns and engineer task forces have also been mobilised for relief work. “In anticipation of assisting civil administration in undertaking rescue and relief operations due to the severe cyclonic storm, the Indian Army has mobilised columns and Engineer Task Forces (ETF) to the Western Coast from various parts of the country,” a senior army official said.Ten teams are on standby in Diu, while another 10 are being sent to Junagarh. “All units are geared up for impact and all necessary coordination has been carried out with civil administration,” he said.The army is also all set to provide all possible assistance for creating power back-up and making preparations for other contingencies at Covid hospitals in the affected region, including the Dhanvantri hospital in Ahmedabad, he said.The Indian Air Force is also involved in the effort. On Sunday, the IAF deployed two C-130J and one An-32 aircraft for transporting 167 National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) personnel and 16.5 tonnes of cargo from Kolkata to Ahmedabad. Also, another C-130J and two An-32 aircraft carried 121 NDRF personnel and 11.6 tonnes of load from Vijayawada to Ahmedabad. Two C-130Js airlifted 110 personnel and 15 tonnes of cargo from Pune to Ahmedabad too.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajnath-reviews-military-s-preparations-for-cyclone-relief-warships-on-standby-101621254310948.html
17-05-2021||India||News updates from HT: Tauktae likely to cause heavy rains in Rajasthan tomorrow and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Cyclone Tauktae: Heavy rains likely in Rajasthan tomorrowClose to a dozen districts in Rajasthan would witness heavy to very heavy rainfall on Tuesday as an impact of Cyclone Taukatae. Read MoreAEFI committee's report reveals bleeding, clotting cases from AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine minuscule in IndiaThe National AEFI (Adverse Event Following Immunization) Committee on Monday in a report to the Union health ministry said that the bleeding and clotting cases following coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccination in the country are minuscule in line with the expected number of diagnoses of these conditions. Read MoreAs black fungus cases rise, scramble for anti-fungal drugAs cases of black fungus or mucormycosis rise in various states, there is a mad scramble for anti-fungal drug Amphotericin B that is used to treat the disease. Read MoreDespite second wave, Bhagwat’s comments indicate Sangh-BJP ties on trackThe Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS)’s response of not blaming the government alone for failing to prepare for the second wave of the coronavirus pandemic indicates there is neither a change in its equation with the Bharatiya Janata Party. Read MoreTold him such things don't happen: Tendulkar recalls hilarious first interaction with KohliSachin Tendulkar and Virat Kohli are two names almost everyone in India knows, even if they are not cricket fans. Read MoreSalman Khan twins with body double Parvez Kazi on Radhe Your Most Wanted Bhai sets, fans say ‘two gems together’Salman Khan’s body double Parvez Kazi shared a picture of them from the sets of Radhe: Your Most Wanted Bhai. Read MoreTVS NTorq 125 hits major milestone, crosses one lakh sales globallyTVS Motor Company has hit a major landmark on Monday. The Indian two-wheeler manufacturer announced that it has crossed one lakh sales unit of its popular scooter NTorq 125 in international markets. Read MoreNora Fatehi tries to exercise in gym, ends up twerking in hilarious videoNora Fatehi has lately been flaunting her enviable curves in bodycon dresses a lot. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-tauktae-likely-to-cause-heavy-rains-in-rajasthan-tomorrow-and-all-the-latest-news-101621248869039.html
17-05-2021||India||Apollo Hospitals, Dr Reddy’s Labs announce pilot launch of Sputnik V vaccine||Apollo Hospitals and Dr Reddy’s Laboratories today announced the launch of a limited pilot programme for the Russian made Sputnik V Coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccine as part of the soft launch by Dr Reddy’s in India.The first phase of the programme kicked off with vaccinations in Hyderabad on Monday, May 17, 2021, and will start in Visakhapatnam on Tuesday, May 18, at separate facilities at the Apollo Hospitals in those cities, said Apollo hospitals in a statement.“This pilot phase will allow Dr Reddy’s and Apollo to test the arrangements and cold chain logistics and prepare for the launch. We are confident that with the Sputnik V vaccine, we will be able to make a significant contribution to ease availability and access to Covid vaccines to the community at large,” said K Hari Prasad, president – hospitals division, Apollo Hospitals Enterprises Limited, in the statement. “With the opening up of the vaccination programme for the private sector, we have intensified our efforts to accelerate the rate of vaccination through opening vaccination centres across our hospital network and are also in discussions with corporates to undertake vaccination on their premises. We are currently administering Covid-19 vaccine at 60 locations across the country including Apollo Hospitals, Apollo Spectra hospitals and Apollo Clinics,” he added.Also Read | Delhi’s daily Covid-19 cases drop below 5,000 for first time after April 5The vaccinations would follow the standard operating procedures (SOPs) as recommended by the Indian government, including registration on the CoWIN platform, which is the backbone of Covid-19 vaccine delivery system in the country. “We are pleased to collaborate with Apollo Hospitals as part of our soft pilot launch of the Sputnik V vaccine in India. We are working to scale up the pilot and take the vaccine to other cities, and in the upcoming months we hope to inoculate as many Indians as possible,” said MV Ramana, chief executive officer— branded markets (India and Emerging Markets), Dr Reddy’s Laboratories, in the statement. According to the statement, the Sputnik V vaccines for the pilot programme will be supplied by Dr Reddy’s from the first batch of 150,000 vaccine doses imported by them for the soft launch on May 1.After Hyderabad and Visakhapatnam, the pilot programme will be extended to Delhi, Mumbai, Bengaluru, Ahmedabad, Chennai, Kolkata, and Pune.On April 13, Dr Reddy’s Labs received India’s drugs controller’s approval for import of the vaccine under restricted use in emergency situation, making it the third vaccine allowed for use in India against Covid-19.The vaccine developed by Russia’s Gamaleya Institute as a proven efficacy of 91.6%, making it third Covid-19 vaccine to have an efficacy of over 90% along with the Pfizer and Moderna vaccines .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/apollo-hospitals-dr-reddy-s-labs-announce-pilot-launch-of-sputnik-v-vaccine-101621252871142.html
17-05-2021||India||Despite second wave, Bhagwat’s comments indicate Sangh-BJP ties on track||The Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS)’s response of not blaming the government alone for failing to prepare for the second wave of the coronavirus pandemic indicates there is neither a change in its equation with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led Union government nor is there a rethink on how it chooses to convey criticism, according to both Sangh functionaries and party leaders.A perceptible ease in working relations has been a hallmark of the Sangh-BJP equation post 2014, and any criticism of government policies has been soft-pedalled. The BJP is the political arm of the Sangh, even though the latter asserts that it does not influence the government’s decision making.“It is in line with this synergistic approach that RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat (on Saturday) instead of blaming the government alone for failing to take pre-emptive and proactive measures that could have prevented the second wave, said it was both the government and the people who misread the situation after the first wave,” said a senior Sangh functionary.He went on to add, “Anyone who anticipated a showdown between the Sangh and the BJP has also misread the situation.”Also Read | Delhi Covid-19 cases drop below 5,000 for first time after April 5Bhagwat did refer to the situation as grim, saddening and difficult and the deaths as “untimely”, but his message was to not lose hope.Delivering the lecture online, which is part of the Sangh’s “Positivity Unlimited” initiative, Bhagwat said, “Some people have died… they should not have died this way, untimely…We have to keep ourselves and our people safe and therefore we don’t need negationism. We can’t say nothing has happened; everything is alright. We are not saying that. Situation is hard and saddening, but while accepting that we are not going to allow ourselves to feel negative.”Sangh functionaries who have been actively involved in various seva or welfare initiatives admit that they have been witness to horrors unfold, particularly in rural areas, but have opted to refrain from pointing fingers.“There is no time to play a blame-game. Political parties will accuse each other, and governments will spar, but for the Sangh it is time to contribute in whatever way we can. Besides, the situation is so critical that even we find it difficult to extend help,” said a second functionary on condition of anonymity.The second functionary said the possibility of the second wave denting the BJP’s electoral fortune, particularly in Uttar Pradesh a state where the Sangh has extensive reach, has been “of concern”.“Even as the cadre itself faces the threat of contracting the Covid-19 virus, the Sangh has set up isolations centres, begun blood and plasma donation drives, and in some instances also helped perform the last rites to lessen the anger,” the second functionary said.When asked if the Sangh could have opted for a less muted response to the situation given the perceptible public anger, the first functionary said the decision to not embarrass the union government is an instruction from the brass. “On many occasions there have been disagreements, but the top leadership has advised against making it public or using expressions that can embarrass the government. There is room for disagreement but not publicly,” the first functionary said.For instance, when the new education policy that was high on the Sangh’s agenda was delayed and eventually announced in 2020, there was only reminders and muted outbursts from the affiliates.The stress on not airing differences in public was taken to avoid the repetition of strained relations between the Sangh, then led by K Sudarshan, and the BJP-government during the premiership of Atal Bihari Vajpayee.Consequently, disapproval of the government policies and decision making has been carefully structured to avoid giving it an appearance of the Sangh and the BJP being at loggerheads.In 2017, post demonetisation and the Goods and Services Tax (GST) roll out, when the micro, medium and small-scale sectors listed the adverse impact of these policy decisions on their businesses, the Sangh again opted for relaying a message without rancour.Also Read | Covid vaccine: Swadeshi Jagran Manch starts campaign for universal accessIn his annual Dusshera address that year, Bhagwat acknowledged that the biggest contribution toward employment comes from the MSME, retail businesses, and cooperative and agriculture sectors and said called for protecting these from economic “earthquakes”.“They are our security net during ups and downs in the global trade and economic earthquakes ... Crores of people get jobs or employments through these sectors,” he said.Political commentator Shirish Kashikar said not airing differences publicly does not mean that the Sangh does not convey the message. “They do it through appropriate channels,” he said.In recent years, while the affiliates have aired their grievances against economic decisions such as disinvestment, relaxing foreign direct investment and issues related to employment, the criticism against the government was blunted by blaming “experts and bureaucracy” for policy decisions.In 2017, when the labour arm, the Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh (BMS) expressed concern over poor jobs growth, it blamed it on “dependence on faulty advisors and misguided reforms.”In a statement, it said, “The present slowdown is the result of the wrong direction of the economy and job-displacing reforms followed as a continuation of UPA (United Progressive Alliance) policies. PM’s good intentions and efforts are neutralized by lack of proper experts, lack of communication and feedback from social sector…”Political commentator Hari Desai however, said that the protests from the affiliates are aimed at diluting public anger. “This is not the same Sangh that opposed policies during Vajpayee’s time. When Vajpeyee was about to allow FDI, Dattopant Thengadi (founder of Swadeshi Jagaran Manch) rushed back to India from South Africa to convince the government about its dangers. Now the Sangh flatters and defends the government,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/despite-second-wave-bhagwat-s-comments-indicate-sangh-bjp-ties-on-track-101621251550426.html
17-05-2021||India||Apollo Hospitals, Dr Reddy's announce Covid vaccination programme with Sputnik V||Apollo Hospitals and Dr Reddy's Laboratories on Monday said they are collaborating to initiate a Covid-19 vaccination programme in the country with Sputnik V.The first phase of the programme will kick off with vaccinations in Hyderabad on Monday and in Visakhapatnam on Tuesday (May 18) at Apollo facilities.The vaccinations would follow the SOPs as recommended by the government including registration on CoWIN.  Apollo Hospitals' Joint Managing Director Sangita Reddy said the healthcare major would receive 10 lakh doses of the Covid-19 vaccine over a period of one month."Delighted to share @HospitalsApollo has Ptnr with @drreddys 2 admin #SputnikV the 1st foreign-made #vaccine to be used in #India to all DRL staff. Additionally, we will be receiving 1 Mn doses (over 1 mth period ) 4 our public #vaccinationdrive as #IndiaFightsCovid19," she tweeted.For the pilot programme, Apollo would receive the Sputnik V vaccines from the first batch of 1.5 lakh doses imported by Dr Reddy's so far.After Hyderabad and Visakhapatnam, the pilot programme will be extended to Delhi, Mumbai, Bengaluru, Ahmedabad, Chennai, Kolkata, and Pune.Elaborating further, Apollo Hospitals President – Hospitals Division K Hari Prasad said in a statement:"This pilot phase will allow Dr Reddy's and Apollo to test the arrangements and cold chain logistics and prepare for the launch. We are confident that with the Sputnik V vaccine, we will be able to make a significant contribution to ease availability and access to Covid vaccines to the community at large."With the opening of the vaccination programme for the private sector, the healthcare major has intensified efforts to accelerate the rate of inoculation through opening vaccination centres across its hospital network, he added."We are also in discussions with corporates to undertake vaccination on their premises. We are currently administering Covid vaccine at 60 locations across the country including Apollo Hospitals, Apollo Spectra hospitals and Apollo Clinics," Prasad said.Dr Reddy's Laboratories CEO – Branded Markets (India & Emerging Markets) MV Ramana noted that the two entities were working to scale up the pilot and take the vaccine to other cities with an aim to inoculate as many Indians as possible.In August 2020, Russia became the world's first country to register a coronavirus vaccine, dubbed as Sputnik V.Following that, in September, Dr Reddy's Laboratories and Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) entered into a partnership to conduct clinical trials of Sputnik V, which is developed by the Gamaleya National Research Institute of Epidemiology and Microbiology.Dr Reddy's Laboratories has received approval from the Indian drug regulator for restricted emergency use of Sputnik V.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/apollo-hospitals-dr-reddy-s-announce-covid-vaccination-programme-with-sputnik-v-101621250618335.html
17-05-2021||India||Delhi's daily Covid-19 cases drop below 5,000 for first time after April 5||Signalling control over the deadly fourth wave of coronavirus infection, Delhi on Monday recorded less than 5,000 fresh Covid-19 cases for the first time in nearly 42 days. A total of 4,524 new cases were recorded in the national capital in the last 24 hours, pushing the cumulative tally to 1,398,391, the health bulletin said.The daily death toll, however, rose from 262 recorded a day earlier after 340 fresh fatalities were recorded in the health bulletin. As many as 21,846 people have succumbed to the deadly viral disease since the start of the pandemic.On Monday, the positivity rate - the proportion of samples turning up a positive result among all tested - dropped further to 8.42%, which shows that the disease spread has been arrested to an extent. A day earlier, Delhi's positivity rate was recorded at 10.4%.Also read: Apollo Hospitals, Dr Reddy’s Labs announce pilot launch of Sputnik V vaccineAt 8.42%, the positivity rate is the lowest since April 9 when it stood at 7.8%. The number of new infections is the lowest since April 5 when 3,548 people were diagnosed with the disease, according to government data.However, the lesser number of fresh cases on Monday came from a relatively smaller number of tests -- 53,756-- conducted on Sunday.After witnessing record Covid-19 cases close to 30,000 last month, the national capital moved to strictly follow the lockdown strategy till the cases come down to permit regular function of Delhi. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday extended the ongoing lockdown by another week which will now end at 5am on May 24, stating that the recovery made cannot be lost by rushing to open the national capital for people.The gains made so far in fighting Covid-19 cannot be lost suddenly due to any relaxations now, Kejriwal said.With the positivity rate shooting past the 30 per cent-mark, Delhi went into lockdown on April 20 in a bid as the CM warned that the fourth wave in the city-state is dangerous and people will have to stay indoors to save lives.The positivity rate in Delhi rose to its highest (35%) on April 26 but has gradually come down in the last 21 days.Also read: As black fungus cases rise, scramble for anti-fungal drugExplaining the reason behind extending the lockdown, Kejriwal said the number of Covid-19 cases is decreasing in Delhi and recovery has increased but "we do not want to lose this gain, therefore, lockdown is extended".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-covid-19-cases-drop-below-5-000-for-first-time-after-april-5-101621250245521.html
17-05-2021||India||Telangana Covid-19 patient builds himself an isolation bed on tree||An 18-year-old tribal student from Telangana’s Nalgonda district, who tested positive for Covid-19 on May 4, built himself a makeshift isolation chamber atop a tree-- where he stayed put for 12 days-- to protect his family from the virus since his family house didn’t have a separate room to quarantine him.Ramavath Shiva from Kotha Nandikonda village is a first-year BA student at Patancheru in Sangareddy district. He returned home last month due to the pandemic and was helping his family since then by enrolling himself under Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS).“On May 4 evening, I tested positive for Covid-19 and doctors advised me to stay at home in isolation with due precautions. But there is hardly any space in my small house, where I have been staying with my parents and sister,” Shiva said.After spending the first night outside the house, Shiva stumbled upon the idea of building a makeshift accommodation on the tree in front of his house. He moved his charpoy to the tree and tied it to its branches with ropes.“It was very comfortable for me. My parents used to keep breakfast, lunch and dinner on a chair placed near the tree and I used to come down to eat. Except for attending to nature’s call, I did not leave the tree during my isolation period,” Shiva said.Kotha Nandikonda is a very small village with a population of about 1,000 residents and has no isolation centre for Covid-19 patients. Though there is a primary health centre about five kilometres away, it has no facilities to accommodate any patients.“I was told a hostel meant for Scheduled Tribe students at Adavi Devulapalli block headquarters was converted into an isolation centre on May 13. But by that time, I had already finished eight days in isolation on the tree. Moreover, no villager came to see me fearing Covid-19,” Shiva said, adding he was not aware if any other person in the village was affected by the virus.Village sarpanch Balu Naik could not be contacted for his comment.Shiva said he spent his time reading books, listening to songs on his mobile and even talking to his friends. “There is no need to panic because of Covid-19. You can conquer it with your positive thinking,” he said.On Monday, he alighted from his “isolation ward” on the tree, as he was feeling better. “I am going to the health centre to get tested. Hope it will be negative for the virus,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/18yr-old-covid-19-patient-builds-himself-an-isolation-ward-on-a-tree-101621250410512.html
17-05-2021||India||Covid-19: Remdesivir production capacity increased to nearly 119 lakh vials per month, says govt||The domestic production capacity of Remdesivir, the essential drug used for the treatment of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) has increased unprecedentedly from 38 lakh vials manufactured per month to manufacturing 119 lakh vials per month, the government said on Monday.The patented drug, which is manufactured in India under voluntary licenses granted by Gilead Life Sciences USA, was very scarce when the catastrophic wave of the pandemic hit the country. The increased surge in the demand for the drug even led to its black marketing, hoarding and sale of fake vials of the medicine."To augment the domestic production capacity, all the seven domestic licensed manufacturers of Remdesivir were asked to ramp up production quickly. With combined efforts of the central government and the manufacturing companies, the production capacity of the licensed manufacturers has increased unprecedentedly from 38 lakh vials per month to nearly 119 lakh vials per month," the ministry of chemicals and fertilizers said in a statement.Also read| Hoarding case: Delhi HC dissatisfied with clean chit to BV Srinivas, othersAdditionally, the production is boosted through the supplies of requisite raw materials and equipment from foreign countries, with the help of the Union ministry of external affairs.The ministry on Monday said with the accelerated approval. the number of manufacturing sites increased from 22 to 60. Exports of the medicine have been prohibited since April 11 and custom duty has also been exempted on Remdesivir injection, Remdesivir API and Beta Cyclodextrin (SBEBCD) used in the production of the drug since April 20, the ministry said.The government also shared the data on the allocation of Remdesivir to states and Union territories across the country. Interim allocation of 11 lakh vials was made for 19 states and UTs with heavy demand on April 20 for the period up to April 30. With the increase in the availability of the supplies, this allocation was increased to 16 lakh vials on April 24 and all states and UTs were allocated the drug."In a series of allocations issued subsequently, with the latest allocation issued on May 16, 76 lakh vials in total have been allocated among States for a period up to May 23, 2021," the ministry said.Production capacity of #Remdesivir has been increased from 38 lakh vials to nearly 119 lakh vials per month Substantial increase in number of manufacturing sites of Remdesivirhttps://t.co/YL2S9dKygg#Unite2FightCorona pic.twitter.com/9YIKMNkOhtSeven pharmaceutical companies namely-Cipla, Dr Reddy’s Lab., Hetero, Jubilant Pharma, Mylan, Syngene and Zydus Cadila manufacture the drug in the country and all of them have been making supplies available to the states and UTs as per the allocation both through private distribution channels and against government's purchase order. A total of 54.15 lakh vials of the drug have been supplied across the nation by the companies from April 21 to May 15, according to the ministry. Meanwhile, a total of 5.26 lakh vials, which have been received as part of foreign aid and 40,000 vials that were imported commercially, have also been allocated to the states and UTs, as on May 16."State governments / UTs have been advised to place adequate purchase orders with the marketing companies immediately for the quantity that they want to purchase out of allocation for the State/ UT as per supply plan in close coordination with liaison officers of the companies. The coordination with private distribution channels in the state is also to be made by the states," the government said.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19The state governments have also been asked to monitor proper distribution within their jurisdiction and judicious use of the drug as advised by the AIIMS/ICMR Covid-19 National Task Force and Joint Monitoring Group of the health ministry. The governments have also been recommended to operate a mechanism for issuance of the drug to the needy patients and well advertise it publically for greater awareness.The government also said that to monitor the supply needs the department of pharmaceuticals, through National Pharmaceuticals Pricing Authority (NPPA), is in constant touch with nodal officers of the state and the liaison officers of the manufacturing companies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-remdesivir-production-capacity-increased-to-nearly-119-lakh-vials-per-month-says-govt-101621247544537.html
17-05-2021||India||Cyclone Tauktae: Heavy rains likely in Rajasthan tomorrow||Close to a dozen districts in Rajasthan would witness heavy to very heavy rainfall on Tuesday as an impact of Cyclone Taukatae. The respective collectors, SPs and others have been directed to be on vigil and be prepared with a contingency plan. According to the Met department, the state would be witnessing gusty winds and heavy rainfall in Pali, Udaipur, Jalore, Dungarpur and Sirohi on May 18, and in Ajmer, Jodhpur, Kota, Jaipur and Bharatpur on May 19. Also, Rajasthan, which draws oxygen from the Hazira port and Jamnagar refinery in Gujarat, in addition to Bhiwadi in Alwar district, has made arrangements to continue safe transportation of oxygen from Gujarat amid the second wave of Covid-19. Apprehending that the cyclone might completely dismantle the oxygen corridor between Gujarat and Rajasthan, the state has deployed over 1,500 personnel from police and State Disaster Relief Force (SRDF) at as many as 100 different locations between the two states to seamlessly transport oxygen cylinders, officials said. Click here for LIVE Updates of Cyclone Tauktae“SDRF teams are stationed at 100 equidistant locations between Gujarat and Rajasthan. They are specially trained to remove fallen trees, heavy boulders, wires, and poles from the road,” said Additional DGP, Law and Order, Saurabh Shrivastava. The control room at the police headquarters in Jaipur is constantly monitoring the pace of the cyclone and emergency alternative routes to safely ferry oxygen cylinders. A senior IG rank officer is already deployed in Gujarat along with several other deputy SPs and circle inspectors. Shrivastava said the safety of oxygen trucks was important. “The trucks move at a certain speed when they are laden with gas. They cannot increase the speed as it could trigger an accident of fire,” he said, adding that for the past several days the Rajasthan police were making arrangements to facilitate the return of oxygen cylinders from Gujarat. Expecting a sudden power cut due to the cyclone, the health department has directed all district administrations to arrange generators and invertors. “In view of the cyclone, all required preparations are being done and I appeal to all to be cautious of the storm,” tweeted Ashok Gehlot, CM, Rajasthan. He added that the officials are being asked to make alternate emergency plan for oxygen supply as the cyclone may hit Jamnagar in Gujarat, which is a big source of oxygen supply for the state. Chief Secretary Niranjan Arya said district collectors, along with SPs, health officers, and civil defence officials have been directed to formulate a contingency plan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-tauktae-heavy-rains-likely-in-rajasthan-tomorrow-101621248490310.html
17-05-2021||India||Congress MP Rajeev Satav's last rites performed at native place in Maharashtra||The mortal remains of Congress MP Rajeev Satav, who died after recovering from Covid-19, were consigned to flames with state honours at his native place Kalamnuri in Maharashtra's Hingoli district on Monday.Several key Congress leaders, including AICC in-charge of Maharashtra H K Patil, party's Maharashtra unit chief Nana Patole and state ministers Ashok Chavan, Balasaheb Thorat, Vijay Wadettiwar, Aslam Shaikh, Nitin Raut, Varsha Gaikwad, Satej Patil, Vishwajeet Kadam and other party workers were present at the funeral.Satav (46), considered as a close associate of Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, died at a hospital in Pune on Sunday, days after recovering from the coronavirus infection.The late Rajya Sabha member's family members bid him an emotional farewell as his mortal remains were consigned to flames at his native place on Monday.Paying tributes to the late leader, Shaikh said, "...he would always talk about the issues concerning the people of Maharashtra...the farmers have lost their leader. He is not among us. I am speechless."Kadam described Satav as his "big brother and mentor".Satav was undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Pune after testing coronavirus positive last month and was on ventilator support.A media release by the Jehangir Hospital in Pune had said Satav succumbed to "secondary pneumonia with multi-organ dysfunction syndrome".He had become "RT-PCR swab negative" on May 9, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-mp-rajeev-satav-s-last-rites-performed-at-native-place-in-maharashtra-101621243956275.html
17-05-2021||India||AEFI committee's report reveals bleeding, clotting cases from AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine minuscule in India||The National AEFI (Adverse Event Following Immunization) Committee on Monday in a report to the Union health ministry said that the bleeding and clotting cases following coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccination in the country are minuscule in line with the expected number of diagnoses of these conditions."AEFI data in India showed that there is a very minuscule but definitive risk of thromboembolic events. The reporting rate of these events in India is around 0.61/million doses, which is much lower than the 4 cases/million reported by UK’s regulator Medical and Health Regulatory Authority (MHRA). Germany has reported 10 events per million doses," the report said."There were no potential thromboembolic events reported following administration of Covaxin vaccine," it added.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19More than 23,000 adverse events through the CoWin platform were reported by 684 districts of the 753 of them in the country, since the beginning of the Covid-19 drive, as of April 3. Only 700 cases of these cases (9.3 cases /million doses administered) were reported to be serious and of severe nature, according to the report.After completing an in-depth case review of 498 serious and severe events, the AEFI committee said that 26 of them have been reported to be potential thromboembolic events.Also read: 0.61 per million Covishield doses reported clotting, bleeding, says Health ministryThe in-depth analysis of the adverse events in India post-Covid-19 vaccination was conducted after global concerns were raised for “embolic and thrombotic events” in relation to the Oxford/AstraZeneca vaccine. Many European nations halted their vaccination drives as reports of people developing rare blood clots after the administration of the vaccine started surfacing.Out of the total of more than 20 million vaccine doses administered in the United Kingdom, MHRA, the country's medical regulator reported 79 cases of the adverse event, of which 19 died, as of April 26, reported BBC.The Oxford/AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine is produced in India by the Serum Institute of India in Pune and administered as Covishield.The national AEFI committee's report suggested that the thromboembolic events keep taking place in the general population, but this risk is almost 70% less in people of south and southeast Asian descent as compared to people from European descent.Also read: Tauktae intensified rapidly this morning, took IMD and scientists by surpriseThe health ministry has also decided to separately issue the advisories to healthcare workers and vaccine beneficiaries to spread awareness about the symptoms occurring within 20 days after the administration of any Covid-19 vaccine, particularly Covishield and to encourage people to report to the health facilities where the shot was administered.However, the benefits of the Covishield vaccine still outweigh its risks. It continues to "have a definite positive benefit-risk profile with tremendous potential to prevent infections and reduce deaths," as per the government. More than 13.4 crore doses of the AstraZeneca vaccine have been administered in the country as on April 27, according to government data.India on Monday reported less than 300,000 cases of viral infection for the first time in 26 days, as per the ministry's data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aefi-committee-s-report-reveals-bleeding-clotting-cases-from-astrazeneca-covid-19-vaccine-minuscule-in-india-101621242674409.html
17-05-2021||India||Navy, Coast Guard on high alert as Tauktae passes Mumbai coast||The Indian Navy and the Indian Coast Guard (ICG) are on high alert as severe cyclonic storm Tauktae passes the Mumbai coast towards Gujarat on Monday.The navy has kept its Flood Rescue Teams at INS Shikra in Colaba, INS Trata in Worli, Material Organisation in Ghatkopar, INS Tanaji in Mankhurd, and INS Hamla in Malad ready for deployment. The navy can also operate its Chetak and Sea King helicopters from INS Shikra in support of relief and rescue operations as may be permitted by the weather, said navy’s chief public relation officer, commander Mehul Kernik.“On receiving request for assistance for a barge adrift off Heera Oil fields in Bombay High area with 273 personnel onboard, INS Kochi was despatched for search and rescue assistance,” said Karnik, adding that several other ships have been prepared for disaster recovery task in the wake of Cyclone Tauktae that has wreaked havoc along the west coast of India.Click here for LIVE Updates of Cyclone TauktaeHe said the navy was prepared and was on standby as no request had yet been received from the civil administration for immediate help.Timely weather alerts have ensured that as many as 4,526 boats from Maharashtra and 2,258 boats from Gujarat, which were out at sea for fishing, have safely returned to the harbours.The ICG has also geared up for preventive and response measures on western coast, said an ICG official.ICG ships and aircraft started alerting fishing boats as well as merchant vessels in the possible route of the storm soon after it learnt about cyclone Tauktae. Several ships were deployed at sea to ensure safe return of more than 5,600 fishing boats, alerting and safe-routing of 335 merchant vessels, said the ICG press release.Apart from that, 40 coast guard Disaster Relief Teams (DRTs) with inflatable boats, lifebuoys and life jackets are on standby along the western coast for undertaking disaster response operations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/navy-coast-guard-on-high-alert-as-tauktae-passes-mumbai-coast-101621246210457.html
17-05-2021||India||Pinarayi Vijayan-led Kerala govt to be sworn on May 20||Communist Party of India Marxist (CPIM)'s acting state secretary and Left Democratic Front (LDF) convener A Vijayaraghavan on Monday said that the Kerala government will have a 21-member cabinet.He added that the swearing-in ceremony will be conducted on May 20 with a limited number of people in view of the Covid-19 situation in the state.Speaking to media persons after the LDF meet to decide on cabinet berths, Vijayaraghavan said that CPI(M) would have 12 ministerial berths while four have been given to CPI and one each for Kerala Congress (M), Janata Dal (S) and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP)."The remaining two ministerial posts will be shared between other allies on an alternate basis, the first two and half years with Janadhipatya Kerala Congress and Indian National League after which Kerala Congress (B) and Congress (S) takes possession of the chair respectively. CPM will hold speaker post, CPI will be given deputy speaker post and chief whip post to Kerala Congress (M)," he added.He said the LDF has entrusted chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan to decide the portfolios of the ministers."Left Democratic Front will meet and decide the Parliamentary committee head tomorrow and after it will meet the Governor," he added.The Communist Party of India (M)-led LDF retained power in Kerala by winning 99 seats against 41 seats of Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) in the assembly polls. BJP could not win any seat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pinarayi-vijayan-led-kerala-govt-to-be-sworn-on-may-20-101621245150454.html
17-05-2021||India||Andhra Pradesh extends partial lockdown till May 31||The Andhra Pradesh government has extended the partial lockdown clamped in the state to contain Covid-19 cases till May 31. The decision was taken on Monday afternoon at a meeting held by chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy at his camp office in Amaravati.The partial lockdown resembling a curfew for 18 hours a day was first imposed on May 5 and was supposed to end on May 18. But this has now been extended till the month end. The curfew timings, from 12 noon to 6 am the following day, remain unchanged.Andhra Pradesh reported 24,171 Covid-19 positive cases on Sunday, the highest daily count since the outbreak of the pandemic last year. It also reported 101 deaths in the same period. The state’s daily infections are the fifth highest after Karnataka, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Kerala.The chief minister’s office said an extension of the curfew was inevitable to get the desired results. “It has only been 12 days since we imposed the curfew. It should be in force at least for four weeks,” CM Jagan said.He also directed officials to ensure the number of Covid-19 positive cases do not go up in rural areas of the state and asked them to use ASHA (Accredited Social Health Activist), village volunteers and village secretariat mechanism to reign-in the crisis.He also announced that children orphaned by Covid-19 will be taken care of by the state government and a financial scheme will be worked out to help them.“We shall deposit a certain amount in the name of the children and the interest accrued from the deposit could be utilised to meet their expenses every month,” the chief minister suggested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-pradesh-extends-partial-lockdown-till-may-31-101621244890164.html
17-05-2021||India||Tauktae intensified rapidly this morning, took IMD and scientists by surprise||Tauktae intensified from a very severe to an extremely severe cyclonic storm rapidly on Monday morning, taking weather experts and scientists by surprise.“Tauktae intensified very rapidly this morning. We did not state that it would intensify to an extremely severe cyclone in our forecast. But it did because of extremely favourable oceanic and atmospheric conditions,” said M Mohapatra, director general, India Meteorological Department (IMD).In its trajectory of Tauktae, the IMD forecast that it would intensify into a very severe cyclonic storm and cross the Gujarat coast on May 18 (Tuesday) early morning. This was as per IMD’s bulletin issued at 2.20am on Monday. But by 8.15am, IMD issued another bulletin that said Tauktae had already intensified to an extremely severe cyclonic storm with a maximum wind speed of 180-190 kmph gusting to 210 kmph and that it would cross the Gujarat coast between Porbandar and Mahuva on Monday night between 8pm and 11pm.Heavy to very heavy rain was recorded in north Konkan, including Mumbai, which will continue for the next 12 hours.Click here for LIVE updates of Cyclone TauktaeGale wind speed reaching 180–190 kmph gusting to 210 kmph is likely to prevail over eastcentral Arabian Sea during the next six hours. Gale wind speed reaching 80-90 kmph gusting to 100 kmph is likely to prevail along and off the Maharashtra coast on Monday and gradually decrease thereafter.Gale wind speed reaching 90-100 kmph gusting to 110 kmph is prevailing over adjoining northeast Arabian Sea. It would gradually increase, becoming 170–180 kmph gusting to 200 kmph from Monday evening for the subsequent six hours and decrease thereafter.Independent experts had warned of rapid intensification of Tauktae.“Cyclone Tauktae, which is now skirting the Mumbai coast, has undergone rapid intensification from Category 1 (90-125 km/hr) to Category 4 ( 220-280 km/hr) status. Winds reaching 220 km/hr as per JTWC (and 185 km/hr as per IMD). Rapid intensification of cyclones is a response to climate change and ocean warming, and cyclone forecast models have a hard time in picking them up. We need to incorporate this in forecast models and also be prepared on the ground for future cyclones to come,” said Roxy Mathew Koll, a climate scientist at the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology.“Strong waves, 3-6 metres, are forecast along the coast of Mumbai and Maharashtra. One way to reduce these impacts is to work on our natural defences like mangroves. Historically, Mumbai and Goa had a lot of mangroves—we can bring them back—they can reduce the impact of cyclones and floods,” he added.Tauktae intensified very rapidly from a depression to a cyclone on Friday. There was rapid intensification of the cyclone on Saturday also.“With Cyclone Tauktae, this will be the fourth consecutive year of pre-monsoon cyclone over the Arabian Sea. This is also the third consecutive year when a cyclone has come very close to the west coast of India. Sea surface temperatures in Arabian Sea have increased rapidly during the past century and this has led to an increase in the frequency and intensity of cyclones in the Arabian Sea…global warming has presented us with new challenges such as rapid intensification of cyclones, which need to be closely monitored at higher resolution and accuracy using on-site platforms such as buoys and moorings. Improving the Indian Ocean Observing System (IndOOS) and incorporating the global warming signals in the weather models can help us tackle the challenges of intense cyclones in the future,” Koll added in a statement.“Conditions are extremely favourable for its (Tauktae’s) rapid intensification. Ocean heat potential is above normal; sea surface temperatures are 1-2°C above normal… We should be prepared,” Sunitha Devi had said on Thursday when a low pressure area had formed over Arabian Sea.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tauktae-intensified-rapidly-this-morning-took-imd-and-scientists-by-surprise-101621244231085.html
17-05-2021||India||SC orders Andhra MP arrested for sedition to be treated at army facility||The Supreme Court on Monday directed Member of Parliament from Andhra Pradesh, Kanmuri Raghurama Krishnam Raju, arrested on sedition charges, to be medically examined at the army hospital at Secunderabad and kept his bail plea for hearing on Friday.Raju had approached the top court demanding examination at a neutral hospital after the Andhra Pradesh high court on Sunday directed him to appear before a medical board of three doctors working with the state government hospitals. Raju had moved a letter before the high court claiming to have been beaten and tortured by police in custody and even complained of cardiac issues having undergone a recent bypass surgery.Although Raju is an MP representing the YSR Congress Party from Narsapuram constituency, he has been critical of the party leadership and the state government and even demanded cancellation of bail granted to CM YS Jagan Mohan Reddy in a corruption case. Last year, the Delhi high court ordered Y-category security cover for the MP in view of threats that followed his anti-party rant.A vacation bench of the Supreme Court comprising justices Vineet Saran and BR Gavai directed that Raju be forthwith taken to army hospital at Secenderabad and be kept under medical care till further orders. The court directed the head of the army hospital to constitute a medical board of three doctors to examine the MP. A judicial officer nominated by the Chief Justice of the Telangana high court shall remain present during the examination, the top court directed. The cost of the treatment shall be borne by Raju.The bench said, “Chief Secretary, Andhra Pradesh, is directed to carry out this order forthwith and ensure that the petitioner is taken to and reaches the Army Hospital, Secunderabad today itself…The proceedings of medical examination of the petitioner shall be video-graphed and be submitted to the Registrar General of the Telangana high court in a sealed cover for being transmitted to this Court.”The court directed the period of stay at the hospital to be treated as “judicial custody” of the petitioner with a specific direction asking the armed guards provided to Raju under the Y-security cover not to remain inside the hospital or during his medical examination.Senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, who appeared for Raju, told the top court that the case of sedition has been invoked as he was critical of the state government’s handling of the Covid-19 crisis. Raju was arrested on May 14 and a day later, his bail plea was dismissed by the Andhra Pradesh high court on the ground that the same ought to be moved before the sessions court. The Crime Investigation Department (CID) has accused him of delivering hate speeches against certain communities and promoting disaffection against the government. Also Read | Maratha quota: BJP panel to review verdict; warns Maharashtra govt of stirRaju has been booked under various sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), namely section 124A (sedition), section 153A (promoting enmity between different groups), section 505 (inciting any class or community of persons to commit any offence) read with section 120B (criminal conspiracy).Rohatgi said his client required urgent medical attention after being beaten up in police custody. The senior counsel did not agree to get examined by the medical board comprising government doctors, one being a gynecologist whose husband heads the Legal Cell of the ruling party. He urged the court to consider shifting the accused MP to an army hospital in the state or All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Delhi.Senior advocate Dushyant Dave, appearing for the state government, objected to the accused being shifted to army hospital. Although the medical board had examined Raju, he was open to the suggestion that the accused be examined at the army hospital or even AIIMS, Mangalagiri, situated within the state. Citing the allegations of hate speech levelled against Raju, Dave said, “The kind of hate he is generating within the state is unimaginable.”The court invited the Union government, not otherwise a party to the present proceedings, to know whether the petitioner’s medical examination could be performed at an army hospital. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta appeared for Centre and said, “We have no objection if the accused is taken to army hospital or brought to Delhi AIIMS.” However, he questioned why the army was being dragged into a political matter.The bench clarified, “There is nothing political here.” To allay apprehensions of both the accused and state, the bench allowed a judicial officer to remain present while the examination is conducted. The bench allowed the state to respond to the bail plea and medical examination plea by Wednesday and posted the matter for hearing on Friday.Meanwhile, Telangana-based media channel TV5 has also approached the Supreme Court, challenging the sedition charge against it by the Andhra Pradesh government. The channel has also been accused, along with YSR Congress MP Raghurama Krishnam Raju, of aiding him in making his hate speech in order to promote “disaffection” against the government.Shreya Broadcasting Private Limited, the company that runs the channel, along with its executive editor, moved the top court through advocate Vipin Nair, demanding that the FIR against them to be quashed. Besides, the petition has also demanded setting aside the CID enquiry report forming the basis of the FIR and stay on any coercive action against the company, news channel or its employees.The petition states, “The petitioners apprehend that the purpose of the mala fide FIR is to curb dissent in the state and cause a chilling effect on media houses.” Citing the alleged custodial torture meted out to Raju, the channel further stated, “Petitioners verily believe that if this court does not interject on an urgent basis, the petitioner shall be meted out the same treatment.”In its May 14 FIR, the CID has alleged that the petitioner’s channel TV5 allotted “pre-mediated” and “organised” slots to MP Raghurama Krishnam Raju, which evinces a meeting of minds among the accused persons. The petitioner claimed that there is no criminality in allotting slots to a public figure and such action by the state violates the channel’s fundamental right to free speech.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-orders-andhra-mp-arrested-for-sedition-to-be-treated-at-army-facility-101621243270623.html
17-05-2021||India||India's daily new Covid-19 cases less than 3 lakh after 26 days||India's daily spike of coronavirus cases remained below the 3 lakh mark for the first time in nearly 26 days as only 2,81,386 fresh infections were recorded in the last 24 hours, according to the Union Health Ministry's data on Monday.On April 22, the country achieved a grim milestone in its fight against the raging coronavirus as it reported over 3 lakh new cases in a 24-hour period for the first time since the pandemic began last year.The Ministry of Health and Family Welfare reported 4,106 Covid-related new deaths in the country and 3,78,741 fresh recoveries during the 24-hour period.The cumulative caseload stands at 2,49,65,463, including 2,11,74,076 recoveries, 35,16,997 active cases and 2,74,390 deaths.As per the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), a total of 31,64,23,658 samples have been tested for Covid-19 up to May 16, of these, 15,73,515 samples were tested on Sunday.Karnataka, which has recently emerged as the new Covid-19 hotspot, continues to remain the worst affected state at present with 6,00,168 active infections. Maharashtra follows with 4,70,595 active cases.A total of 18,29,26,460 doses of Covid-19 vaccines have been administered across the country so far.On Sunday, the Union Health Ministry informed that a declining trend in daily positivity rate was also observed which stood now at 16.98 per cent.It pointed out that the national recovery rate improved to 84.25 per cent while the mortality rate currently stands at 1.09 per cent.10 States including Karnataka, Maharashtra, Kerala, Rajasthan and Tamil Nadu cumulatively account for 74.69 per cent of India's total Active Cases, the ministry had informed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-daily-new-covid-19-cases-less-than-3-lakh-after-26-days-101621242315404.html
17-05-2021||India||India boosts vaccination drive to fight third wave of Covid-19 infections: BJP leader||India has scaled up vaccination for its 1.3 billion population, apart from boosting heath care infrastructure as it prepares for a third wave of coronavirus infections, Baijayant Panda, vice president of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party, said.“The biggest bet of course we are making is that our vaccination roll out has been scaled up enormously,” the BJP leader, known as Jay Panda, said in an interview to Bloomberg TV Asia on Monday. “By end of the year, we hope to have a majority of Indians vaccinated.”India is battling the world’s worst outbreak of Covid-19 with hospitals running out of beds and oxygen supply, even as crematoriums remain overwhelmed. The government’s Principal Scientific Adviser K. VijayRaghavan has warned of a third wave as the virus mutates further.More than 2 billion doses of coronavirus vaccines will be available in India between August to December this year, which will be sufficient to vaccinate the entire adult population, VK Paul, a member of the government think-tank Niti Aayog, said last week. India has administered 182.9 million jabs so far.The country is scaling up beds and critical care in hospitals, including ventilators and oxygen supply, Panda told Bloomberg TV. Vaccination production is being ramped up, he said, adding the country may not need a nationwide lockdown unlike last year.India reported 281,386 new infections and 4,106 deaths on Monday. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday said Covid-19 was spreading rapidly in rural areas and asked villagers in the world’s second-most populous nation to follow precautions.As India reported record numbers of new infections in recent weeks, opposition leaders blamed Modi for premauterly declaring victory against the virus and accused him of doing little to help the nation’s states tackle the pandemic.Panda said while there is “some kind of focused narrative” to blame Modi for everything, the reality is he took early steps to boost health infrastructure and rolling out the vaccination drive.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-boosts-vaccination-drive-to-fight-third-wave-of-covid-19-infections-bjp-leader-101621241445138.html
17-05-2021||India||Narada case: No social distancing as TMC workers protest ministers’ arrest||Covid-19 protocols went for a toss on Monday, Day 2 of the lockdown in West Bengal, as hundreds of Trinamool Congress workers and supporters hit the streets across the state, staging protests against the arrest of two Cabinet ministers and an MLA in connection with the 2016 Narada sting case. Tension mounted as some people hurled bricks, shoes and bottles at the central forces guarding the Nizam Palace which houses the CBI’s office even as they shouted slogans against the arrest. Earlier in the day, the CBI arrested ministers Subrata Mukherjee and Firhad Hakim, MLA Madan Mitra, and former Kolkata mayor Sovan Chatterjee. Soon after, while chief minister Mamata Banerjee, who lost her brother to Covid past Saturday, rushed to the CBI’s office, a few hundred TMC workers and supporters also followed her, shouting slogans. Some of the protesters were not even wearing masks and most were wearing it incorrectly, below their nose and mouth. There was no social distancing as a scuffle broke out between party supporters and the police when the former tried to break the barricades and enter the Nizam Palace. State governor Jagdeep Dhankhar tweeted, “Invited attention @MamataOfficial, On channels and in public domain I notice arson and pelting of stones at CBI office. Pathetic that Kolkata Police @KolkataPolice and West Bengal Police @WBPolice are just onlookers. Appeal to you to act and restore law and order.” “Concerned at alarming situation. Call upon @MamataOfficial to follow constitutional norms & rule of law. Police @WBPolice @KolkataPolice @HomeBengal must take all steps to maintain law & order. Sad- situation is being allowed to drift with no tangible action by authorities,” he wrote. Also Read | ‘Arrest me’: Mamata Banerjee tells CBI after 4 held in Narada sting op caseThe CBI is scheduled to produce the accused ministers and legislators in the court later in the day. A large police contingent is deployed to prevent any law and order violation. Protests also erupted in multiple places across the state where TMC workers and supporters blocked roads, took out rallies and burned tyres. “West Bengal is fighting a battle against Covid. Under such circumstances, the CBI, prompted by the BJP, chose to arrest to ministers. This is not just revenge but would also have a negative impact on the fight against Covid. We condemn this arrest,” said Kunal Ghosh, TMC spokesperson.TMC MP Abhishek Banerjee, who is also the chief minister’s nephew, urged people not to violate the lockdown norms. “I urge everyone to abide by the law & refrain from any activity that violates lockdown norms for the sake of the larger interest of Bengal and its people. We have utmost faith in the judiciary & the battle will be fought legally,” he tweeted.The West Bengal government imposed a lockdown from Sunday, cancelling trains, buses and Kolkata Metro, shutting down government and private offices and banning all types of political and social gatherings to check the spread of Covid-19. The daily count of Covid-19 cases has shot up exponentially in the past month now, with experts blaming the rise on countless election rallies that were held in April violating all safety protocols. On Sunday, the state registered 19,117 new cases, taking the total number of active cases in the state to 131,805. As many as 147 persons have succumbed to Covid-19 in the past 24 hours, taking the death toll to 13,284 since 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/narada-case-no-social-distancing-as-tmc-workers-protest-ministers-arrest-101621241350294.html
17-05-2021||India||Newly-married Odisha woman succumbs to Covid after hospitals refuse admission||A newly-married, Covid-19 infected woman in Odisha died in capital Bhubaneswar following an eight hour long ordeal on Saturday, during which one hospital after another refused to treat her. The state government has now ordered a probe into any possible lapses.25-years old Swarnalata Pal married Bishnu Charan Bhol of Indolakusiari village of Khordha district on April 28. Early this week she complained of fever followed by a rapid deterioration in her condition in the next few days.On Saturday morning she felt breathless as her oxygen level plummeted to 54%, said her family. She was then taken to the Balipatna Community Health Centre, where the doctor referred her to the Capital Hospital in Bhubaneswar.Pal’s brother-in-law, Niranjan Bhol, said when they reached Capital Hospital, the doctors there referred her to SCB Medical College and Hospital in Cuttack, 25 km away. “But we chose not to take her to Cuttack as her condition was deteriorating every minute. So we went to AIIMS Bhubaneswar instead. But the hospital refused admission without a Covid test report. We then went to another private hospital in the city which again refused us due to absence of Covid test report,” said Bhol.With time running out, the woman’s in-laws then took her to private hospitals before finally bringing her back to the community health centre, where the doctor gave her an injection in the ambulance before again referring her to Capital Hospital in Bhubaneswar.When her in-laws pressurised the doctor to treat her there, a team of policemen reached the spot and asked them to shift the woman to Capital Hospital.“When we returned to Capital Hospital in the afternoon on May 15, she was almost breathless. She was tested for Covid-19 there and her result came out positive. She died an hour later,” said Bhol.He said the ambulance driver charged them ₹25,000 for transporting the patient from one hospital to another.Director of health services, Bijay Mohapatra said an inquiry has been ordered to find out how the system failed the victim. “We have sought all details from the community health centre,” he said.AIIMS Bhubaneswar medical superintendent Sachidananda Mohanty and director of Capital Hospital Laxmidhar Sahoo refused to comment, claiming they were still ascertaining the details of the case. In another incident, a youth from Kendrapara district, who got married only five days ago, reportedly succumbed to Covid. Sanjay Kumar Nayak of Durgadebipada village under Rajkanika block in Kendrapara district had returned home from Bengaluru on May 1 for his wedding on May 9.Though the 26-year-old had tested negative for Covid-19 in Bengaluru, his health deteriorated a few days after reaching home. After marriage, he developed Covid-like symptoms and was rushed to the district headquarters hospital in Jajpur on May 13. The doctors there referred him to a hospital in Bhubaneswar. However, Nayak died on the way.Meanwhile, the Ganjam district administration on Sunday made Rapid Antigen Tests mandatory for bride, groom and their family members before any wedding. “Permission for wedding will not be granted by the district administration if any family member or bride/groom tests positive for Covid-19,” said Vijay Amruta Kulange, the district collector. As per the direction of the Odisha government, wedding ceremonies are being carried out in the state with 50 participants, including bride and groom.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/newlymarried-odisha-woman-succumbs-to-covid-after-hospitals-refuse-admission-101621240270284.html
17-05-2021||India||The inside story of why the BJP lost Bengal||It’s been a fortnight since the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) fell short of its expected performance in West Bengal, winning 77 seats in the 292 assembly instead of the 200 plus seats the party had anticipated. This gave a clear and bigger victory to Mamata Banerjee and Trinamool Congress than in 2016.While the party’s official post mortem is yet to begin, senior leaders and candidates now have a better understanding of what they suggest are five factors that led to the BJP’s defeat — the lack of a chief ministerial candidate; induction of too many turncoats leading to resentment within the ranks; rising fuel prices; consolidation of Muslim votes for the Trinamool Congress (TMC) even as a corresponding Hindu consolidation did not take place for the BJP; and the salience of the “outsider tag” and an overdose of Hindi.“I would put it down to a few factors,” said star campaigner and BJP member of parliament from Delhi, Manoj Tiwari, who spent several days campaigning across the region, “But the main thing is that we haven’t won the real Bengali hearts yet. We are on our way but not there yet.”Also Read | Mamata Banerjee inducts 43 ministers: Check full list of portfoliosThe official party line is that it is focused, at the moment, in protecting workers from a vindictive TMC’s violent attacks post elections, to do any in-depth review of the results.But HT spoke to two candidates who lost the elections, three members of Parliament (MPs), a party worker from North Bengal who has traditionally been with the party, and a senior leader of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) to understand what went wrong and lessons the BJP has drawn from these elections. They all spoke on condition that their identities wouldn’t be revealed and with the hope that their organisation would learn from their mistakes.Mamata’s welfare vs Centre’s rising fuel prices On record, the BJP blames TMC’s aggression and intimidatory tactics as having deterred voters in many parts of the state from exercising their true political choice. However, what the Bengal BJP cadres point out is that while the Mamata Banerjee government bent over backwards with smooth delivery of welfare schemes, the rising fuel prices, especially LPG, dealt a major blow to the BJP’s appeal among its middle class voters.The price of an LPG cylinder had risen to ₹845 in the state while it was less than ₹600 a few months earlier. The TMC really drove that home during the campaign, for instance protesting by cooking in wood-fired ovens. BJP leaders say that this is one factor that really turned women voters against the party as managing LPG usage is seen as the homemaker’s responsibility, and rising prices sent her budget haywire.Also Read | In Bengal, the story of BJP, TMC and the Dalit and tribal vote“On one hand, you have Mamata Banerjee putting the homemaker’s photo in her family’s health card as part of the Swasthya Saathi programme, which gives an insurance cover of ₹5 lakh. It gives the woman a sense of pride and she feels empowered. Her interface with the Centre comes from LPG prices, which voters feel the Centre controls. So the contrast becomes too stark,” said one of the leaders.They point out that the headlines about small savings schemes’ interest rates being cut on March 31 just added to the damage in the middle of election season, even though the Centre quickly clarified and rolled back the decision. However, at a time when Banerjee was handing out full meals at just ₹5 and bringing her government to people’s doorstep (with the very popular Duare Sarkar scheme), the BJP turned out to be at the receiving end of the April fool’s joke.The ‘outsider’ tag and role of G-22 In the run-up to the Bengal elections, Amit Shah created an elite group informally called the G-22 for Bengal (incidentally, three members were added to it later and it became 25 members but the G-22 name stuck).This was basically a group of Union ministers or state ministers from across the country and some handpicked members of Parliament or legislators, who were each assigned four or five assembly constituencies. Some of the members of the group included Gajendra Shekhawat, Prahlad Patel, Dharmendra Pradhan, Arvind Bhadoria, Nishikant Dubey, and Vishwas Sarang to give special focus to 120 seats, which the party assessed as challenging fights. Each of these members then spent a considerable amount of time in those seats and micromanaged the campaign with the help of their selected aides, that they had brought in from their own areas.But this detailed planning had unintentional consequences. For one, the top leadership and decision makers listened to the feedback of their own aides, instead of listening to the feedback of their ground level workers. “It is possible that many of these people didn’t get the correct picture or that they surrounded themselves with sycophants which wasn’t useful in the long run,’’ said a party worker in the North Bengal.The number of outsiders, which the TMC derisively called Bohiragoto, can be estimated by the fact that there was one chartered plane and three helicopters which brought in the visiting campaigners every morning from Kolkata to Bagdogra and then took them back every night, the BJP worker said.Another candidate from South Bengal said that he had a state legislator from Madhya Pradesh campaigning for him, but even he wasn’t sure who the campaigner was and so his voters weren’t really impressed. “People would come to see Narendra Modi or maybe even Amit Shah or JP Nadda but why would they come to see people who no one knew in Bengal?” he said.Also Read | Ex-governor Tathagata Roy slams top BJP leaders for Bengal poll debacleThe second problem with flooding BJP national stars in Bengal was a basic language problem. Whether they came from Delhi or from Uttar Pradesh, the star campaigners and most G-22 members spoke only Hindi. Some, such as party general secretary in charge of Bengal, Kailash Vijaywargiya, had managed an understanding of Bengali but none of the outsiders could speak in Bengali. And yet, this didn’t stop them from giving speeches in Hindi.One candidate told HT how other than himself, all other persons on stage were Hindi-speakers, and this didn’t help establish the necessary connect with Bengal’s voters. An MP speaking to HT joked that even the person doing the warm-up act before him was speaking in Hindi. “I knew I had to speak in Hindi but I told them that at least you should have got some local to introduce me in Bengali,” he said.In retrospect, the BJP now believes that the G-22 should have strictly played a behind the scenes role, strategising and advising the workers instead of putting themselves forward. That would have then rendered TMC’s campaign of “Banglar nijer mei ke chaye (Bengal wants its own daughter)” rather hollow. Instead, it became on point.The proliferation of turncoat candidatesIn the run-up to the election, the BJP was able to persuade many TMC leaders to join their ranks. Out of the 34 TMC and Communist Party of India (Marxist) leaders who joined the party in the last three months and were given BJP tickets, only five won. A BJP worker added that if the number of actors or other personalities who were given tickets was added to this list, it amounted to 149 out of 292 tickets going to those without roots in the party.Insiders say that neither the grassroot worker nor voters were convinced by the new entrants to the party. “There were many actors who were given tickets but they couldn’t even give you the full form of BJP,” said one of the persons quoted above. “Suvendu Adhikari (former TMC minister) was able to draw in people from his party but they weren’t necessarily the right fit for us.”Whether it was his choice or that of state president Dilip Ghosh, the distribution of tickets seems to have been far from ideal. For instance, in places where a party worker had been stabbed or attacked by TMC men, the newly inducted TMC person was given the ticket instead of going with the party loyalist. This wasn’t encouraging to those that had slowly played a role in enabling the rise of the BJP.Take, for instance, the manner in which TMC leaders Rajiv Banerjee and Baishali Dalmia were inducted in January this year, as a narrative that TMC leaders were abandoning a sinking ship gained ground. The BJP, in order to cash in on it, flew Banerjee and Dalmia in a chartered plane to meet Shah in Delhi. As one Bengal worker said, this flashy jet-setting life left neither the cadres nor the modest Bengali impressed.Incidentally, many point out that BJP vice-president Mukul Roy, who joined in 2017, was missing in action this time around, limiting himself to his constituency Krishnanagar while Adhikari became the star of this election. They say that Roy had managed BJP’s extraordinary performance in 2019 Lok Sabha elections where the party got 18 of the 42 seats, which really jolted Mamata Banerjee and forced her to hire strategists like Prashant Kishor. However, none of the persons HT spoke to were aware of why Roy was low profile this time. Roy didn’t respond to HT’s queries while an aide said that he was in isolation.The leadership question With Mukul Roy tucked away in Krishnanagar, the only local face that the BJP had was president of the state unit Dilip Ghosh. His party colleagues admit that Ghosh isn’t the most tactful.His ‘Mamata should wear bermudas’ comment wasn’t something you’d expect a bhadralok to say or support, and embarrassed his colleagues. However, it was his word that the party gave weight to, when it distributed tickets. With Adhikari and Roy both being relatively new imports, the BJP also had little clarity on who would be the state’s CM, leading to competing and colliding ambitions.Also Read | Extended election campaign pushed Covid-19 cases jump in rural BengalBut this dithering seems to have cost the party. Party insiders point out that Modi, Shah and Nadda’s high-visible campaign confused the voter and made them accept TMC’s argument that there was no one in the BJP who could counter Mamata Banerjee. “In the end, the middle class did wonder who could be an alternative to Mamata and we didn’t give them an answer to that,” said one of the MPs that HT spoke to.As the BJP now admits, the same tactics worked for the 2019 general elections, but for the assembly elections, they should have sent out a clearer signal. In the absence of that, Mamata Banerjee’s narrative of being a lone woman taking on the might of the Centre, managed to make an impression. A senior RSS functionary said that it had perhaps been an error to think that Narendra Modi’s flurry of public meetings would convert many into BJP voters. “I don’t think things work like that, growth has to be more organic.” Another Sangh functionary said that the BJP had wrongly anticipated a Modi wave in the state. He suggested that it would have been far more beneficial for the party if each person in Bengal knew their bandwidth.“We will study all the factors in some time,” said state secretary, Rahul Sinha, “Let us first deal with the attacks on our workers.”For the party, the silver liningHowever, the outlook is positive for many in the larger BJP and Sangh camp. The senior functionary in the RSS, quoted above, who played a key role in the campaign, told HT, “Political and social support don’t always have to go hand in hand. Take for instance, Kerala, where we have a solid support base but haven’t reached that level politically yet. In Bengal, we are getting there.”Others point out that reports of a loss were highly exaggerated. “From 3 to 77 is not a loss but a huge jump, where Left and the Congress could not even get a single seat,’’ said former TMC and now BJP leader Dinesh Trivedi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/the-inside-story-of-why-the-bjp-lost-bengal-101621240030193.html
17-05-2021||India||Narada sting case: CBI arrests 4, including 2 Bengal ministers||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Monday arrested West Bengal ministers Subrata Mukherjee and Firhad Hakim, ruling Trinamool Congress MLA Madan Mitra, and former Kolkata mayor Sovan Chatterjee in connection with the 2016 Narada sting operation case. “The CBI has arrested two ministers, an MLA, and a politician in a case related to Narada sting operation... it was alleged that public servants were caught on camera while receiving illegal gratification from the sting operator,” CBI spokesperson RC Joshi said in Delhi.A CBI officer, who didn’t want to be named, said, “Mamata Banerjee barging into agency office amounts to interference in high court ordered investigation.”The charge sheet against five accused, including an IPS officer as well, for whom prosecution sanction has been received, is being submitted, he said. Following the arrest, chief minister Mamata Banerjee rushed to the CBI’s office at Nizam Palace in south Kolkata. “Mamata told the CBI officials that she should also be arrested,” said a TMC leader, aware of the development. The case pertains to a controversy ahead of the 2016 assembly elections after Narada News portal uploaded a series of videos purportedly showing a number of high-profile TMC leaders receiving money in exchange for favours to a fictitious company. All four leaders have been arrested under sections 120b of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and sections 7 and 13(1)(a) 13(1)(b) of the Prevention of Corruption Act. With protests going on in the city and tension mounting, the CBI decided to virtually produce the arrested leaders before the special CBI court.While the Trinamool Congress has alleged that the BJP was taking revenge over its defeat in the recent assembly elections, the latter said that it has nothing to do with the arrest and law was taking its own course. “Why isn’t Mukul Roy, vice president of BJP, being arrested? He was also seen in the Narada sting operation video saying that the money be given to a IPS officer. The BJP has become vindictive just because they can’t accept their defeat in the assembly polls,” said TMC spokesperson Kunal Ghosh. Also Read | Believe in judiciary, will get clean chit in Narada probe: Firhad Hakim“Law is taking its own course. BJP has nothing to do with this. We are not going to comment as BJP is not a CBI’s spokesperson,” countered BJP spokesperson Samik Bhattacharjee. Narada News, which had conducted the sting operation, also questioned why there has been no action against Suvendu Adhikari. Its chief executive Mathew Samuel said, “It was a long wait. Finally, I got the result. This is a fight against corruption. My question, is what happened to Suvendu Adhikari? He also received money from me. It was recorded and handed over to CBI. Justice has to go everywhere in the same manner.”Meanwhile, TMC workers and supporters staged protests at many places across the state. Roads were blocked with burning tyres, and TMC supporters scuffled with security forces outside the CBI office where the leaders were taken for questioning. “To arrest a sitting legislator, the state’s legislative assembly must be intimated. The CBI, however, did not intimate us (about the arrests). If they have been arrested, it is illegal. Prior permission of the Speaker of the legislative assembly is required for it, but it was not taken. This is undemocratic,” said West Bengal assembly Speaker Biman Banerjee. CPIM Rajya Sabha MP, former mayor and senior advocate Bikash Ranjan Bhattacharya said, “The arrests were not illegal. I would like to see where it’s written that one has to take the permission of the assembly Speaker to arrest a legislator. Thy have been booked according to the Prevention of Corruption Act. While taking cognizance, the court would see whether the crime has anything to do with the work of the assembly or the Speaker. If it has nothing to do with them, then no permission is required.” On May 9, West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar had “accorded sanction for prosecution” of the leaders. While Hakim and Mukherjee took oath as ministers on May 10, Mitra is a sitting legislator who won from Kamarhati assembly. Chatterjee was with the ruling TMC, but joined the BJP in 2019. He quit the BJP too after being denied ticket in the assembly polls from his traditional assembly seat of Behala East.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/narada-sting-case-cbi-arrests-4-including-2-bengal-ministers-101621237869986.html
17-05-2021||India||Govt lays out procedure to rehabilitate children who lost parents to Covid||The government has laid out a procedure for rehabilitation of children who lost their parents to Covid-19.The public notice by the Women and Child Development Ministry comes amid reports that several messages offering children, who have lost their parents to Covid, for adoption are circulating on social media. Advising the public to refrain from engaging or encouraging such action, which is in contravention to legal provisions, the WCD Ministry has laid out lawful procedure of rehabilitation of children who lost their parents to Covid-19.The ministry has said that the child who has lost both parents to Covid-19 ought to be produced before the District Child Welfare Committee (CWC) within 24 hours, excluding the journey time."The CWC shall ascertain the immediate need of the child and pass appropriate orders for rehabilitation of the child, either to restore the child to caregivers or place her/him in institutional or non-institutional care, on case to case basis," the WCD Ministry said in a public notice. The ministry further said that effort will be made to sustain the children in their family and community environment as far as possible, while ensuring their safety in their surroundings and safeguarding their interest, as prescribed under the Juvenile Justice Act."If the child is restored to any kind of kinship care, the CWC will continue to check the well-being of the child on regular basis. Care must be taken to protect the identity of the child avoid undue distress," the WCD Ministry said.The ministry has also asked the state governments have been advised to use digital platform for interaction in exceptional cases where physical interaction is not possible in current circumstances due to Covid related restrictions.The ministry also said that the information about any child who has lost both the parents can be shared with childline (1098). "The local childline unit will help produce the child before the CWC within 24 hours and the local childline unit will also assist the CWC in monitoring the well-being of the child as and when required," it said. The ministry said persons wishing to adopt orphan children may approach Central Adoption Resource Authority (cara.nic.in) for lawful adoptions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-lays-out-procedure-to-rehabilitate-children-who-lost-parents-to-covid-101621237002153.html
17-05-2021||India||News updates from HT: Mamata Banerjee asks CBI to arrest her after 4 held in Narada case and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘Arrest me’: Mamata Banerjee tells CBI after 4 held in Narada sting operation caseWest Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee has asked the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) officials to arrest her as well, said Trinamool Congress (TMC) leader Anindya Raut. Read MoreCyclone Tauktae: Over 12,000 residents shifted from coastal Maha districtsWith Tauktae turning into an extremely severe cyclonic storm, district administrations of Ratnagiri, Sindhudurg and Raigad, coastal districts of Maharashtra, have shifted 12,420 residents to safer places. Read MoreReaching out to those in distress amid Covid: With food, ambulance and moreChandrakumar Gupta, 23, from Kargahar in Bihar was at his hostel in Delhi University last year when a photo of a migrant labourer carrying his daughter on his shoulders while on his long walk back home in Bihar flashed on his mobile screen. Read More'Dont think anybody is surprised more than three people knew': Michael Clarke on Bancroft's ball-tampering remarksFormer Australia captain Michael Clarke has pointed out that he is not surprised to find out that more than three people might have known about the ball-tampering plot. Read MoreHyundai, Kia shut down facilities in home base. Here's whyKorean car manufacturers Hyundai Motor and Kia have decided to temporarily shut down production at its facilities on home turf amid increasing semiconductor crisis. Read MoreShah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan is a USC graduate now, see pic from ceremonyActor Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan is now a graduate from the University of Southern California. On Sunday, Aryan received his degree from the university at a socially-distanced graduation ceremony. Read MoreMiss Universe 2020 Andrea Meza's 7 best pictures from her pageant journeyAndrea Meza from Mexico was crowned the 69th Miss Universe on May 16. The event was held at the Seminole Hard Rock Hollywood Hotel in Miami, Florida and was hosted by Mario Lopez and former Miss Universe Olivia Culpo. Read MoreIsrael-Gaza violence: India calls for ‘de-escalation’; urges direct negotiationsIndia has called for immediate de-escalation of the situation between Israel & Palestine. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-mamata-banerjee-asks-cbi-to-arrest-her-after-4-held-in-narada-case-and-all-the-latest-news-101621234925563.html
17-05-2021||India||Both failed: Rahul Gandhi on PM Modi and ventilators bought with PM CARES Fund||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi attacked Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday morning alleging the ventilators provided under the PM CARES Fund were dysfunctional.“There’s a lot [in] common between PMCares ventilator[s] and the PM himself: too much false PR, don’t do their respective jobs and nowhere in sight when needed,” Gandhi said in a tweet.Rahul’s tweet follows allegations, mostly by Congress-ruled states, that the ventilators provided under the PM CARES Fund for treatment of Covid-19 patients didn’t work properly. India has been struggling to meet the high demand for ventilators, medical oxygen and ICU beds during the ongoing second wave of Covid-19 that has overwhelmed the health infrastructure resulting in a high rate of deaths.Last Friday, Maharashtra Pradesh Congress Committee spokesperson Sachin Sawant accused the Central government of providing faulty ventilators and called for a state-level inquiry into the matter. Several states have red-flagged the ventilators manufactured by AgVa Healthcare and supplied by PM CARES Fund. Earlier last week, Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot complained that the state had received faulty equipment and urged the Union health ministry to launch an investigation into the procurement of defective ventilators using PM CARES Fund.A similar issue was reported by Punjab’s Baba Farid University of Health Science. The varsity VC alleged that 62 out of 82 ventilators provided under PM CARES Fund were defective. The VC’s response came after an Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MLA Kultar Singh Sandhwan tweeted pictures of unutilised ventilators lying at Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital in Faridkot. The hospital staff opined that the ventilators provided by the Centre were not reliable and functioned only for one or two hours after installation.Meanwhile, the state government also claimed that 130 of the 809 ventilators received from the Centre were not functional, as per a PTI report.In Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and Uttar Pradesh too, several ventilators were malfunctioning or sitting idle due to unavailability of ventilator connectors and skilled manpower.The centre called these reports “unfounded” and alleged lack of infrastructure at the Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital was to be blamed instead. In the case of the complaint raised by Maharashtra minister, the home ministry said the ventilators were not purchased under PM CARES Fund as alleged. Additionally, the Prime Minister has called for an immediate audit of the process of installing and operating ventilators while urging that health care workers are trained to handle them.The Wayanad MP has been relentless in his attacks on the Prime Minister and his government over the handling of the pandemic. On Sunday, he condemned the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government over reports of arrests of people allegedly putting up posters criticising Prime Minister Modi and the government’s handling of the crisis. Last week he alleged that the Prime Minister was silent in the times of crisis and accused him of “going missing”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/both-failed-rahul-gandhi-on-pm-modi-and-ventilators-bought-with-pm-cares-fund-101621236374403.html
17-05-2021||India||'Asking users to agree to privacy policy, accounts will be deleted if they don't': WhatsApp to Delhi high court||Mobile messaging service WhatsApp told the Delhi high court on Monday that it has not deferred the May 15 deadline for users to accept its new privacy policy. The social media intermediary told the court through his lawyer Kapil Sibal that it is trying to get users on board but in case they don't agree, their accounts will slowly be deleted."We have asked users to agree to policy. If they don't agree we will delete them... there is no deferment of policy," Sibal told the court.Also Read: Users not accepting privacy terms to face limited functionality, says WhatsAppThe company had pushed back the deadline for its contentious new privacy policy launched in January this year. The updated policy will allow WhatsApp to share some data about users' interactions with business accounts with its parent company Facebook.The high court adjourned the matter for till June 3 even as Additional Solicitor General (ASG) Chetan Sharma and petitioners sought status quo. The ASG urged the court to record the statement of WhatsApp's counsel that the company will conform with the Indian law and maintain status quo where neither the account or the data is deleted if they revoke their permission/consent for the new privacy policy.However, WhatsApp objected to the stay and the company's lawyers said they would not make any such statement.The hearing was held on a petition filed by Seema Singh, through her advocate Meghan, and law student Chaitanya Rohilla challenging the WhatsApp's new privacy policy.The petitioners sought directions to the Centre to ask WhatsApp to either roll back their policy or provide an option to the users of their platform to opt-out of the January 4, 2021 update. The petitioners also sought to provide the users who have accepted the privacy policy another option to make a choice.The company had pushed back the roll-out of the policy, but reiterated in February that it will go ahead with its decision. This came despite the government writing a letter, asking the company to abandon its plans.In its affidavit, the Centre had told the court that the new privacy policy does not provide the opportunity to review or amend the full information submitted by a user, pointing out that the changes allowed to be made are limited to the name, picture, mobile number and “about” information.The Centre cited the 2011 IT Act rules to contend that the updated privacy policy fails to specify the types of “sensitive personal” data being collected, and with whom the information was being shared.According to the 2011 rules, there are eight categories of information that qualify as sensitive personal data, including user passwords, financial instrument and transaction information, and biometrics information.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-deferment-of-may-15-privacy-policy-deadline-whatsapp-to-delhi-hc-101621235511431.html
17-05-2021||India||Covid vaccine: Swadeshi Jagran Manch starts campaign for universal access||Swadeshi Jagran Manch, an offshoot of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), on Monday started an online campaign for “Universal Access of Vaccine and Medicines” and has dubbed patent protection as a “major barrier” to the generic production of vaccines and medicines.The RSS affiliate has started the campaign to pressure global pharma companies into voluntarily giving patent-free rights, including technology transfer, passcodes and raw material to other pharma manufacturers to ramp up Covid vaccine production. “As we are aware that the humanity is facing the worst medical crisis these days due to the second wave of Covid-19. To deal with the situation, the country needs sufficient supply of vaccine, medicines and different types of medical equipment. Swadeshi Jagran Manch firmly believes that many Indian manufacturers have the capacity and expertise in production of essential medicines and vaccine, provided intellectual property rights hurdles are removed with technology transfer and trade secret issues resolved,” the SJM said in a statement.Also Read | How to vaccinate 10 million people a dayIt has also pointed out that although many Indian companies are already making drugs such as Remdesivir under the voluntary license, the quantity is not sufficient to meet the demand, and the price is also very high. “We understand that the government needs to use the public health safeguards in the Patents Act and permit more companies to produce these medicines in the coming days. As we may be requiring nearly 2 billion doses of vaccine in the next six months, we need to involve many more companies in manufacturing these vaccines. It’s heartening to note that licences have been issued to many companies for Covaxin and also for Remdesivir. We may have to multiply these efforts,” the statement said. The SJM has been demanding that all medical products required to respond to Covid-19 be declared global public good, and profiteering ended to serve the needy in these difficult times.The signature campaign seeks the WTO granting waiver in the provisions of TRIPS; government for taking necessary steps including using its sovereign rights to grant compulsory license to other pharma manufacturers to produce vaccine and medicines and for concerned individuals and organisations to facilitate universal access to vaccines and medicines to fight Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-vaccine-swadeshi-jagran-manch-starts-campaign-for-universal-access-101621235709902.html
17-05-2021||India||Cyclone Tauktae: Over 12,000 residents shifted from coastal Maha districts||With Tauktae turning into an extremely severe cyclonic storm,district administrations of Ratnagiri, Sindhudurg and Raigad, coastal districts of Maharashtra, have shifted 12,420 residents to safer places. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has convened a review meeting of State Disaster Management Authority as well in the afternoon.Tehsils such as Mandangad, Dapoli, Rajapur in Sidhudurg and Ratnagiri have been badly hit over the past two days. The district administration has received complaints of damage, falling of trees, electricity and internet disruption due to the weather. However, there is no report of any fatality due to cyclone, said the disaster management cell of the state government. Curfew has been imposed in many tehsils in Sindhudurg and Ratnagiri to avoid any fatalities and damage.Also Watch | Cyclone Tauktae ‘extremely severe’; expected to hit Gujarat coast tonightDeputy chief minister Ajit Pawar took a review of the situation in the coastal districts and spoke to the district collectors and municipal commissioners from the disaster management cell at the Mantralaya. “Pawar has been in touch with the officials from the coastal districts including Mumbai, Thane and Palghar, where orange and red alerts have been issued,” a statement issued by Pawar’s office said.In a review meeting with Union home minister Amit Shah on Sunday, chief minister Thackeray said the government has taken steps for the safety of people and has prepared a back-up plan for the supply of oxygen, and drugs to Covid-19 patients. “Around 900 metric tonnes of oxygen is produced in five production plants in the coastal part of the state. Administrations of Raigad,Palghar, Ratnagiri, and Sindhudurg have been asked to take precautionary measures to ensure that these plants are safeguarded. The double feeder power supply and strong wiring will ensure no damage is caused to oxygen production plants. Maharashtra also has around 12 hours of oxygen supply in stock as back-up,” a statement issued by the state government said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-tauktae-over-12-000-residents-shifted-from-coastal-maha-districts-101621234449935.html
17-05-2021||India||India's virus cases lower but WHO expert warns positivity rate 'worryingly' high||India on Monday reported a further decline in new coronavirus cases though daily deaths remained above 4,000 and experts warned that the count was unreliable due to a lack of testing in rural areas, where the virus is spreading fast.For months now, nowhere in the world has been hit harder than India by the pandemic, as a new strain of the virus first found there fuelled a surge in infections that has risen to more than 400,000 daily.Even with a downturn over the past few days, experts said there was no certainty that infections had peaked, with alarm growing both at home and abroad over the new more contagious B.1.617 variant taking hold."There are still many parts of the country which have not yet experienced the peak, they are still going up," World Health Organization Chief Scientist Soumya Swaminathan was quoted as saying in the Hindu newspaper.Swaminathan pointed to the worryingly high national positivity rate, at about 20% of tests conducted, as a sign that there could be worse to come."Testing is still inadequate in a large number of states. And when you see high test positivity rates, clearly we are not testing enough. And so the absolute numbers actually don't mean anything when they are taken just by themselves; they have to be taken in the context of how much testing is done, and test positivity rate."Having begun to decline last week, and new infections over the past 24 hours were put at 281,386 by the health ministry on Monday, dropping below 300,000 for the first time since April 21. The daily death count stood at 4,106.At the current rate India's total caseload since the epidemic struck a year ago should pass the 25 million mark in the next couple of days. Total deaths were put at 274,390.Hospitals have had to turn patients away while mortuaries and crematoriums have been unable to cope with bodies piling up. Photographs and television images of funeral pyres burning in parking lots and corpses washing up on the banks of the Ganges river have fuelled impatience with the government's handling of the crisis.It is widely accepted that the official figures grossly underestimate the real impact of the epidemic, with some experts saying actual infections and deaths could be five to 10 times higher.'Illusion'Whereas the first wave of the epidemic in India, which peaked in September, was largely concentrated in urban areas, where testing was introduced faster, the second wave that erupted in February is rampaging through rural towns and villages, where about two-thirds of the country's 1.35 billion people live, and testing in those places is sorely lacking."This drop in confirmed Covid cases in India is an illusion," S. Vincent Rajkumar, a professor of medicine at the Mayo Clinic in the United States, said on Twitter."First, due to limited testing, the total number of cases is a huge underestimate. Second, confirmed cases can only occur where you can confirm: the urban areas. Rural areas are not getting counted."While lockdowns have helped limit cases in parts of the country that had been hit by an initial surge of infections in February and April, such as Maharashtra and Delhi, rural areas and some states are dealing with fresh surges.The government issued detailed guidelines on Sunday for monitoring Covid-19 cases with the health ministry asking villages to look out for people with flu-like illness and get them tested for Covid-19.Prime Minister Narendra Modi has come under fire for his messaging to the public, a decision to leave key decisions on lockdowns to states, and the slow rollout of an immunisation campaign in the world's biggest vaccine producer.India has fully vaccinated just over 40.4 million people, or 2.9% of its population.A top virologist told Reuters on Sunday that he had resigned from a forum of scientific advisers set up by the government to detect variants of the coronavirus.Shahid Jameel, chair of the scientific advisory group of the forum known as INSACOG, declined to say why he had resigned but said he was concerned that authorities were not paying enough attention to the evidence as they set policy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-virus-cases-lower-but-who-expert-warns-positivity-rate-worryingly-high-101621233169121.html
17-05-2021||India||Reaching out to those in distress amid Covid: With food, ambulance, and more||Chandrakumar Gupta, 23, from Kargahar in Bihar was at his hostel in Delhi University last year when a photo of a migrant labourer carrying his daughter on his shoulders while on his long walk back home in Bihar flashed on his mobile screen. Gupta created a twitter handle @MigrantTravel where he would upload details of buses and trains to help migrants return home.Gupta is one of the many people in big cities who were so moved by the suffering of the common man, children, and even animals, amid the pandemic that they have stepped out to help.While Gupta started out alone, slowly, others joined him. “One evening, I got a message from one Sonam Chaturvedi who wanted to arrange a bus for some construction workers from Bihar. Since, I had already been sharing bus details for migrants, I had some numbers of bus operators and we could arrange one for whose fare was paid by Sonam,” says Gupta.However, the bus was not allowed to travel as it didn’t have the requisite permit. “I had to struggle for a few days but finally, I managed to get the permission. All this while, my neighbours, Armaan and Sourabh Roy, served the stranded migrants food and in two days, our first bus had reached Bhagalpur in Bihar with 50 migrant workers.” he says.Soon, the ones who had reached home sent out the team’s contact numbers to their friends, motivating the team to raise funds to send one more such bus. “It all grew so big that the four of us have sent over 6,100 migrant workers to their homes in Bihar while we raised an amount ₹56 lakh in just a few months,” says Gupta.Also Read | In Covid-19 second wave, how children are sufferingHeartbreaking stories of struggle have kept them going. “One evening when we were distributing food packets to workers before sending them home, a man on a cycle rickshaw with his wife and two children stopped and asked for a food packet. He said he belonged to Nalanda in Bihar and worked in Haridwar as a rickshaw-puller. So he had cycled from Haridwar with his family on his way home when he bumped into us. We sent them back on the bus; his rickshaw mounted on the bus,” says Gupta.However, the team’s support did not end with organising meals and travel home. Having identified 400 migrants whom they gave a ₹1,000 each initial support, they also organised sewing machines and carts for them which helped migrants sustain back home.Also, once the first wave subsided, Kumar connected labourers with prospective employers in Delhi. “As the situation got better and many of them found work here, we arranged for their return to Delhi too,” he said.Now as the second wave is yet to plateau, Kumar says not many workers are pleading to get back home yet but there is a crisis of proper health care. The team -- comprising Sonam, Arman and Sourabh, apart from Gupta -- has bought two ambulances.“We set up a helpline 011-6119-8168 on May 2 where people from disadvantaged sections of society can call for help. We have also hired a doctor who provides online consultation on this helpline,” he says.The number has already got around 400 calls and they have helped in the hospitalisation of over a hundred patients. “For those needing medicines or oxygen cylinders, we drop them at their doorstep,” says Kumar who is now planning to setup a 25 bed Covid care centre in Haryana’s Hathin block where the positivity rate is high and good healthcare facility not available.In Mumbai, Aditi Mundra, 25, has been baking cakes since the second wave of the pandemic began in India. A graphic designer by profession, Aditi says while everyone was raising funds for oxygen cylinders and medicines, many of the children orphaned by Covid have no one to look after them. “This is when I thought I should use my baking skills to raise funds to help these children,” she says.With her single kitchen oven, Aditi has been baking cakes daily and has made over ₹30,000 in sales. “While I am spending some money to buy protein kits and baby food for children who have lost their breadwinners to Covid, I am also sending stationery kits to holistic care centres of children who are suffering from cancer,” she says.“When I am not baking, I virtually attend to these ailing children and involve them in recreational tasks such as painting with the colour boxes that I sent them as gifts,” adds Aditi who also raised ₹124,000 which she used to buy ration for the families of migrant workers in Mumbai. In New Delhi, Urwi Goyal, 34, who is Covid positive right now, moves out in the courtyard of her house every evening along with a big basket of food to serve four dogs who have been there for two months after their owners abandoned them amid the pandemic. A former administrative officer who quit her job four years back to devote her time to helping people, has been reaching out to as many as 150 dogs each day in Delhi’s locked industrial areas with the food that she prepares at her home. “It all began last year when we saw so many helpless dogs in streets. Since, then my husband and I started moving around in our car to serve them food. Initially, it was just 10 odd dogs in our street but today, we serve all the dogs in all blocks of Naraina in Delhi,” she says.While she has also got over 120 dogs sterilised, she is also training as many 50 other women from families of migrant labourers in Delhi so they could help more of such families in crisis.Last year, these women had identified 25,000 destitute women in Delhi and helped them with ration. This year along with ration, they are reaching out to women with medicines and sanitary pads in the lockdown.“I was raised by a single mother. By helping women, I am only trying to do a bit of what my mother did for me,” she says.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/reaching-out-to-those-in-distress-amid-covid-with-food-ambulance-and-more-101621233312586.html
17-05-2021||India||DRDO's 1st batch of anti-Covid drug 2DG launched||Union defence minister Rajnath Singh and health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan on Monday released the first batch of Anti-Covid drug 2DG developed by the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO).With the support of DRDO and in the leadership of Union Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, this (Anti-COVID drug 2DG) may be our first indigenous research-based outcome to fight against Covid-19. It will reduce recovery time and oxygen dependency," Vardhan.Vardhan said that under Prime Minister Narendra Modi's leadership, the DRDO has played an important role in the fight against Covid-19. "Not just for India but I hope it serves in the fight against Covid, globally in the coming days. I thank and congratulate DRDO and its scientists." he added.Singh said under the leadership of the PM, the issue of oxygen production has been resolved with collective effort. "We will not be at ease and will not be tired but will keep fighting and will win against Covid-19. Now medicine issue is also not there much," Singh added.This comes after the Drugs Controller General of India (DGCI) approved the oral drug for emergency use as an adjunct therapy in moderate to severe coronavirus patients.Earlier on May 8, the defence ministry said the clinical trials of the drug, 2-deoxy-D-glucose (2-DG), showed that it helps in a faster recovery of hospitalised patients and reduces supplemental oxygen dependence."In the ongoing second Covid-19 wave, a large number of patients are facing severe oxygen dependency and need hospitalisation. The drug is expected to save precious lives due to the mechanism of its operation in the infected cells. This also reduces the hospital stay of Covid-19 patients," the ministry had said.The anti-Covid therapeutic application of the drug has been developed by the Institute of Nuclear Medicine and Allied Sciences (INMAS) along with Dr Reddy's Laboratories (DRL) in Hyderabad.The ministry said the drug comes in a powder form in a sachet and is taken orally by dissolving it in water.It further said that patients treated with 2-DG showed a faster symptomatic cure than the standard of care (SoC) on various endpoints.The approval of the drug has come at a time when the nation is struggling with a deadly second wave of the coronavirus disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/drdos-1st-batch-of-anti-covid-drug-2dg-launched-101621228944110.html
17-05-2021||India||In Covid-19 second wave, how children are suffering||“Two young children are alone. Their parents are in hospital and they have no food,” a voice said over the phone and immediately disconnected the call.The call was received by Bachpan Bachao Andolan (BBA), an NGO headed by Nobel Peace Prize laureate Kailash Satyarthi. Two children were in distress and had to be reached, but how? The “informer” just wouldn’t respond to repeated phone calls.The only clue available was that the call had originated from Chattisgarh. BBA made a call to the police in Raipur, which in turn, activated its cyber cell, and within a few hours, the number was traced to Kawardah, a town in Kabirdham district, approximately 120 km from the state capital.A police team soon reached the informer’s home who turned out to be a neighbour, too scared to approach the two children, aged six and eight, for fear of contracting Covid-19. The children had been without food but were also frightened. Would their parents return? When would they come back? The dark night held few answers.Helplines such as that of BBA have been ringing non-stop. The news at the other end of the line is always dismaying, distressing and heartbreaking. Each call is a desperate plea for help — from children themselves, from relatives, neighbours, resident welfare associations and often from friends of minor children who are minors themselves.Also Read | Deaths spike, vaccination dips — the story from India’s statesBBA posted a helpline number on Twitter in end-April. Previously a child rights helpline, the service has now been converted into a Covid child helpline. It received 416 calls in ten days. Its executive director, Dhananjay Tingal, says, “We are helping in multiple ways, from counselling children who cannot articulate their trauma to providing rations, educational fees and cremation costs.”BBA managed to keep a record of its calls but several NGOs say they have lost count. Calls are coming in the thousands.Protsahan India Foundation, which partners with Aziz Premji Philanthropic Initiatives and UNICEF, received 19 calls in a single day on May 11, each informing the organisation of the death of the father.Each statistic speaks of untold grief. The 19 families accounted for 43 children and at least four wives were pregnant. Protsahan, which helps 48 urban slums in West Delhi, has now connected them to midwives and is providing ration and scholarships for the devastated families.Sonal Kapoor, founder director of Protsahan India Foundation, finds herself working late into the nights these days. “I don’t like to refer to the children as Covid orphans. What we need is for kinship care to kick in on an urgent basis. Institutional care and shelter homes should be the last resort. The grief and trauma will damage the children and they will grow up to be broken adults. We are working on the short-term and the long-term.” She and her team are heartbroken too, but soldier on.There is no time to grieve. No time for a pause, a little breather. The problems surrounding children is a pandemic in itself.In Uttar Pradesh’s Sultanpur, an 18-year-old has become the primary caregiver after the rampaging virus ravaged her father’s lungs and he could breathe no more. Her mother is still coping with the loss and there are two younger siblings who need to be taken care of. There is another elder in the house – an Uncle (chacha) – but he is addicted to drugs and often opens the gate of the house and saunters out into locked streets.“My father was our main financial support. He was a teacher and a tutor. He insisted that I focus on taking the IAS exams that I was studying for. How do I fulfil his dream now? The day passes but the nights are long. I have problems sleeping. We are all depressed. Nobody from the neighbourhood was willing to lend a shoulder to carry my father’s body.”She is 18 and therefore, technically, not a minor, but the burden of the family has landed squarely on her young shoulders. An NGO has helped. Vijay Vidrohi, a part of Pratap Sewa Samiti got the entire family tested for Covid-19 and is helping the family with ration stocks and also took care of the last rites.The 18-year-old struggles with fear and apprehension, day on day. She is a college student but the faculty is shut. The freedom of open spaces and peer interaction at college is lost and the walls of her home are closing in on her, she says, as she tries not to cry on the phone.The struggle for millions of children and their families is not limited to the financials alone. Some can access only one meal a day; others are taking up petty jobs at tea stalls and shops and more still are taking to begging. The most startling, and disturbing, of all — some are selling their bodies.Also Read | Education Minister to virtually interact with state education secretaries todaySays Protsahan’s Sonal Kapoor, “There is an escalation of child labour and we have found girls being forced to engage in transactional sex -- offering their bodies in exchange of food for their families. When we speak to the mothers of these girls, they say ‘to feed four children, we have to sacrifice one’. We are focusing on nutrition and safe deliveries for pregnant mothers (some of whom are recent Covid widows), dry ration high in proteins for children, and emotional psychological support and even professional therapy. It’s like drowning in the sea. An NGO can’t be the system. We can only help plug the system.”Many are racing against time – amid an increasing number of children needing help – to try and be that plug. Multiple plugs are needed — to help with nutrition, with medication, with therapy, with domestic violence and sexual abuse, with child marriages and child trafficking. Fears of child trafficking networks slowly penetrating the pandemic are real and organisations are trying hard to guard against it.Social media is flooded with messages detailing the legal process to adopt children under the Juvenile Justice Act and there is a flurry of statements from child right bodies on how they are helping. Anurag Kundu, chairperson, Delhi Commission for Protection of Child Rights, in a statement said, “Children are the most vulnerable in these testing times as they remain dependent on others to provide for them. The panel is receiving numerous cases wherein a child has lost all sources of support and is in need of immediate care. The commission is committed to resolving all such cases in less than 24 hours.” He also posted a thread on how children can be legally adopted.The second wave has hit children harder. The trauma doesn’t stop with the loss of either or both parents. The emotional wound needs to be treated. Many children have not seen their parents for the last time because Covid protocols don’t allow for bodies to be brought home, and so, there is no closure.Acknowledging this, the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights NCPCR said, “While calls to counsellors over the last two-three months have been fewer and mostly about anxiety around exam schedules, the second wave of cases has brought children’s health and mental well-being back into focus. The NCPCR has written to the state authorities asking them to re-circulate information about the tele-counselling facility at Covid care centres and isolation facilities and sensitise staff, doctors and frontline workers so that children can be guided to seek help from experts on the toll free number.”Prayas, run by former Delhi Police officer Amod Kanth, is isolating children in quarantine centres, taking in children who have been orphaned and rescuing minors who have been left to beg on the streets, with help from child welfare committees.Ajay Tomar, a counsellor with Prayas, is trying to heal the children emotionally but it’s an uphill task. “What do you tell a 14-year-old who, after losing her father, is grappling with a deep sense of isolation and abandonment and the question in her mind is, Will I lose my mother too?’’ he says. Her mother is unable to look after her and she is currently at the shelter home.Similarly, Manoj Wadhwa, currently in Gurugram, is trying to fend for his 10-year-old Rajasthan-based niece who has lost both parents. The child has a medical problem and her medical expenses add up to ₹25,000 a month.Wadhwa lost his three-year-old son in an accident not long ago. “I understand the pain. My heart melts but what do I do? Only the NGOs are helping me. I am fighting for justice for my son. I have sued the contractor who left a gaping hole in the road, but who do I sue now? Who do I blame?” he asks.Who indeed? The government is still waking up to the child protection emergency. The ministry of women and child development has sought information on Covid orphans from various state governments and reiterated the need for respecting due process, but the road ahead is long and arduous.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-the-second-wave-how-children-are-suffering-101621229351119.html
17-05-2021||India||Gaza conflict: India calls for immediate de-escalation at UNSC||India has strongly condemned all acts of violence and provocation in the Gaza conflict and called for immediate de-escalation while urging Israel and Palestinian authorities to immediately resume dialogue to find a lasting solution. TS Tirumurti, India’s ambassador to the UN, outlined the country’s position during an open debate at the UN Security Council early on Monday, saying both sides should show extreme restraint and desist from actions that exacerbate tensions. India has found itself treading a cautious line as the conflict escalated in recent days, given its strong relations with both Israel and Arab states as well as its traditional support for a two-state solution, which was reiterated by Tirumurti. Palestinian officials have described Sunday as the deadliest day since the current fighting with Israel began, with 42 people killed in Israeli air strikes on Gaza. Israel’s army claimed Hamas militants fired more than 3,000 rockets over the past week. Also Read | Israel kills 42 in Gaza as Netanyahu warns war will go on“We reiterate our strong condemnation of all acts of violence, provocation, incitement and destruction. Immediate de-escalation is the need of the hour so as to arrest any further slide towards the brink,” Tirumurti said while addressing the open debate at the UN Security Council, of which India is a non-permanent member. “We urge both sides to show extreme restraint, desist from actions that exacerbate tensions and refrain from attempts to unilaterally change the existing status quo, including in east Jerusalem and its neighbourhood,” he said. Noting that recent events had resulted in a sharp deterioration of the security situation, Tirumurti said: “The indiscriminate rocket firing from Gaza targeting the civilian population in Israel, which we condemn, and the retaliatory strikes into Gaza have caused immense suffering and resulted in deaths, including women and children.” The historic status quo at the holy places of Jerusalem, including Haram al-Sharif or Temple Mount, must be respected, Tirumurti said. Both sides should “refrain from attempts to unilaterally change the existing status quo, including in east Jerusalem and its neighbourhood”. India supports the diplomatic efforts of the Quartet and other members of the international community, particularly the countries in the region, to calm the situation, end the violence and seek a durable peace, Tirumurti said. “These incidents have once again underscored the need for immediate resumption of dialogue between Israel and Palestinian authorities. The absence of direct and meaningful negotiations between the parties is widening the trust deficit between the parties,” he said. “This will only increase the chances for similar escalation in the future. We believe that every effort should be made to create conducive conditions for resumption of talks between Israel and Palestine,” Tirumurti added, while reiterating “India’s strong support to the just Palestinian cause and its unwavering commitment to the two-state solution”. Tirumurti also highlighted India’s direct connection to the situation – he pointed out that an Indian national, care-giver Soumya Santosh, had died when rockets hit the Israeli coastal city of Ashkelon, and that Jerusalem is revered by millions of Indians who visit the city every year. Referring to Santosh, he said, “We deeply mourn her demise along with all other civilians who have lost their lives in the current cycle of violence.” He added, “[Jerusalem] also houses the Al-Zawiya al-Hindiya, the Indian Hospice, which is a historic place associated with a great Indian Sufi saint, Baba Farid, and located inside the old city. India has restored this Indian Hospice.” The Indian Hospice is run by the descendants of a man from Uttar Pradesh, who still hold Indian passports. UN Secretary-General António Guterres has pleaded for an immediate end to the “utterly appalling” violence and warned that further fighting could plunge the region into “uncontainable crisis”. The overall death toll in Gaza now stands at 188, including 55 children and 33 women, while another 1,230 have been injured, according to local authorities. BBC cited local reports as suggesting that Hamas has offered some kind of ceasefire for several days but has been rebuffed by Israel, which wants to inflict as much damage as it can on the militants before the fighting is finally brought to a close.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gaza-conflict-india-calls-for-immediate-de-escalation-at-unsc-101621227729736.html
17-05-2021||India||Bengal hospitals to undertake thorough check-up of firefighting equipment||In the wake of recent fire incidents in Covid-hospitals in Maharashtra and Gujarat that killed several people, the West Bengal government has asked all state-run hospitals to go for a thorough check of their firefighting equipment to avoid any such incident.“The number of patients coming to state-run hospitals is increasing every day and many facilities are almost full. All government hospitals across the state have been directed to undergo a thorough review of firefighting arrangements,” said a senior health department official of the state. In April this year, at least 15 patients lost their lives after a fire broke out in a Covid-hospital at Virar in Maharashtra’s Palghar district. In another incident at least 19 people, including 17 Covid patients, died after a fire at the Intensive Care Unit of a hospital in Gujarat’s Bharuch district earlier this month. “The heads of all medical colleges and hospitals have been asked to depute one assistant superintendent for this purpose. Similarly, the chief medical officers of health of all districts have also been directed to check the firefighting arrangements of all district hospitals under them,” the official said. Also Read | India’s records 281,386 new Covid-19 cases, 4,106 fatalities in 24 hoursHospitals have been asked to complete any pending civil and electrical firefighting work; district magistrates and heads of medical colleges can spend up to ₹25 lakh for the same without waiting for a nod from the state health department. While there are more than 180 government hospitals dedicated for treating Covid-19 patients, 41 private hospitals have been taken up by the state for treating such patients. This apart, there are safe homes, rural health facilities and district hospitals where patients are admitted. Daily-count of Covid-19 cases has shot up exponentially in the recent past with experts blaming the rise on election rallies that were held in April violating all safety protocols. On Sunday, the state registered 19,117 new cases, taking the total number of active cases in the state to 131,805. As many as 147 Covid deaths were reported in the past 24 hours, taking the total death toll to 13,284 since 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-hospitals-to-undertake-thorough-check-up-of-firefighting-equipment-101621225749634.html
17-05-2021||India||India opposes Hamas rocket action against Israel, supports Palestine||In a nuanced statement on the Middle-East situation, India has opposed “indiscriminate rocket firing” by Hamas from Gaza to target civilian population in Israel while supporting the Palestinian cause and its commitment to the two-state solution.While the UN Security Council could not issue a statement on the escalating situation after what Chinese foreign minister Wang Yi called a “block by one country”, the US is coming under pressure to reconsider its position on the Israel-Hamas conflict.Watch: Israel calls off airstrike in Gaza after spotting childrenThe Indian statement issued by UN Permanent Representative on May 16 has used the word “retaliatory strikes” by Israel to Hamas action. The words have been carefully inserted as India itself has been a victim of cross-border terrorism emanating from Pakistan. The fact is that India lost one of its nationals Soumya Santhosh from Kerala is the indiscriminate rocket firing by the Sunni militant group. "We reiterate our strong condemnation of all acts of violence, provocation, incitement and destruction," the Indian statement said.Also Read: Israel kills 42 in Gaza as Netanyahu warns war will go onWhile India has opposed Hamas action, it has stuck to its traditional line of direct dialogue between Israeli and Palestinian authorities as well as remaining committed to the two state solution. “Immediate de-escalation is the need of the hour, so as to arrest any further slide towards the brink. We urge both sides to show extreme restraint, desist from actions that exacerbate tensions, and refrain from attempts to unilaterally change the existing status quo, including in East Jerusalem and its neighbourhood,” the state said.It is understood that friends of Israel have privately told Tel Aviv to exercise full restraint or else it will further alienate itself from the global community.The Indian position is carefully articulated in the statement as New Delhi has close ties with both Israel and the Arab world and supports the Palestinian cause. The Hamas action against Israel from Gaza further complicates the issue as the Sunni group has few supporters in the PLO, whose leader Mahmoud Abbas is the president of the State of Palestine and Palestine National Authority.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-opposes-hamas-rocket-action-against-israel-supports-palestine-101621224892489.html
17-05-2021||India||4 vacancies in Rajya Sabha following assembly elections||Four vacancies have come up in Rajya Sabha after the latest round of assembly elections as the members of Parliament occupying these seats got elected in their state assemblies. Some of the members will also serve as ministers in their respective states. Trinamool Congress MP Dr. Manas Bhuyan, who got elected to Rajya Sabha on 2017, had contested assembly polls and is now the Water Resources Investigation and Development minister of the state. Similarly, R. Vaithilingam of AIADMK, who was set to retire in 2022 in the Upper House, resigned from Parliament after he won from Orathanadu constituency. He is be in the Opposition bench of the Tamil Nadu assembly. Also Read | No virtual meetings of House panels possible as of now: RS to KhargeHis party colleague, KP Munusamy, also resigned from Parliament to become a member of the Tamil Nadu assembly. Munusamy won the Veppanahalli constituency. Another Rajya Sabha MP, Biswajit Daimary from Assam, quit the Upper House. According to some state officials, the BJP MLA is tipped to be the next Speaker of the state assembly. Nominated MP Swapan Dasgupta had resigned from the House before contesting Bengal election from the Tarakeshwar seat. As per the procedure, by-elections will take place to fill up these vacancies in the Rajya Sabha. While the Trinamool and the BJP would be able to retain the seats vacated by their MPs, in Tamil Nadu, both seats vacated by the AIADMK MPs are likely to go to the ruling DMK. While the four seats in Assam, Bengal and Tamil Nadu would face by-polls, the President of India will have to nominate an eminent person for Dasgupta’s seat. The rules, however, also allow renomination of Dasgupta.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4-vacancies-in-rajya-sabha-following-assembly-elections-101621224730188.html
17-05-2021||India||Earthquake of 4.5 magnitude hits Gir Somnath in Gujarat||An earthquake of magnitude 4.5 hit Gujarat's Gir Somnath district in the early hours of Monday, officials said.No casualty or damage to property was reported, they said.The earthquake was recorded at 3.37 am with its epicentre one km East-South East of Una in the Gir Somnath district located in Saurashtra region, an official of the Gandhinagar-based Institute of Seismological Research said."There has been no damage or casualty," Gir Somnath Collector Ajay Prakash said.On July 16 last year, an earthquake of 4.8 magnitude was recorded near Rajkot in Gujarat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/earthquake-of-4-5-magnitude-hits-gir-somnath-in-gujarat-101621224033109.html
17-05-2021||India||India records 281,386 new Covid-19 cases, 4,106 fatalities in 24 hours||India recorded 281,386 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the last 24 hours, the Union health ministry update showed on Monday. With this, the total tally reached 24,965,463.The data updated at 8am showed that 4,106 people succumbed to the disease in the said period, which pushed up the death toll to 274,390.The number of active cases - a grim marker of the spread of the disease - came down to 3,516,997 from Sunday's 3,618,458.Though the active cases have been going down in the past few days, the health ministry said on Sunday that 10 states account for 74.69 per cent of these cases. These states are: Karnataka, Maharashtra, Kerala, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal, Gujarat and Chhattisgarh.It also said that the country's positivity rate - the percentage of samples which test positive from total samples tested - has dropped to 16.98 per cent from 24.47 per cent recorded on May 3.Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday discussed the Covid-19 situation with chief ministers of Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh, Uttar Pradesh and Puducherry over a phone call.Meanwhile, the cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country crossed 18.29 crore mark on Sunday under phase 3 of the nationwide vaccination drive. The data on health ministry's website showed that 18,29,26,460 vaccine doses have been administered till now.The Centre on Sunday released guidelines to check the spread of the coronavirus disease in rural areas. It urged states to ensure community-based and primary health centre services to manage the situation while stressing on sensitisation of ground workers on containment, surveillance and use of rapid antigen testing (RAT) for screening, and tele-consultation.Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan along with Member (Health) of NITI Aayog Dr VK Paul also chaired a high-level video conference meeting with all the states and union territories.The state health secretaries were asked to hold daily regular review meetings starting Monday with medical officers and block levels nodal officers to ensure that the standard operating procedures (SOPs) and the advisories percolate to the grassroots level.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-records-281-386-new-covid-19-cases-4-106-fatalities-in-24-hours-101621221829398.html
17-05-2021||India||Deaths spike, vaccination dips—the story from India’s states||Uttarakhand, Goa and Delhi have highest Covid deaths for one lakh population (DPL) whereas Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Odisha have lower DPLs, shows government’s data on Covid deaths. The health ministry’s data also shows that less than two percent of the population in Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Bihar and Jharkhand, states accounting for one-third of the country’s population, have been fully vaccinated, even as several smaller population states such as Tripura, Sikkim and Arunachal Pradesh have done much better.It is in this twin story — of a higher number of deaths in many pockets (which official numbers haven’t, it appears, been able to capture), and a dip in vaccination in other pockets — that is a key feature of the management of the second wave of the pandemic in India.These inferences are based on health ministry’s Covid and vaccination data for May 15 and population projections for 2021 by the Census Commissioner of India, and come at the time when some state governments are being accused of hiding actual Covid deaths.The story of mortality According to health ministry data, Uttarakhand, where mass gathering of people was allowed for Mahakhumbh in March and April, has highest (151) deaths for one lakh people (DPL) followed by Goa, 131, and Delhi, 101. “We have been transparent in reporting Covid cases and deaths. Our death numbers also include outsiders who came for Kumbh,” said Uttarakhand chief secretary Om Prakash.Gujarat, which has been repeatedly accused of hiding Covid deaths, has much lower DPL of 12.95. Divya Bhaskar, a Gujarati daily newspaper, had on Friday reported that the state government has issued 121,000 death certificates between March 1 and May 10 this year, 61,000 more certificates than in the same period last year. Although the Gujarat government did not deny the figures, junior home minister Pratapsinh Jadeja said it was “mischievous” to compare death certificates with Covid-19 and accused the newspaper of trying to be sensational.Also Read | 5th phase of lockdown begins in Delhi as positivity rate down to 10.4%Gujarat’s neighbouring state of Maharashtra, which has reported high Covid cases since March, had DPL of almost 70, highest among big population states. Karnataka has DPL of 32, Chhattisgarh 39.30, Punjab 38.54, Andhra Pradesh 17.56 and Tamil Nadu 22.72.Uttar Pradesh has DPL of 2, second lowest to only Mizoram among states, with 4,623 total Covid deaths reported so far, even as there have been reports of over 800 dead bodies found buried on banks of river Ganga in Kanpur, Gazipur and Unnao districts. UP government has refuted charge of hiding data, saying Covid deaths were being reported as per the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) guidelines that prohibits recording of Covid deaths of persons with co-morbidities. “We are strictly following ICMR guidelines,” said UP’s additional secretary, information, Navneet Sehgal.Madhya Pradesh, where burials and cremations as per Covid protocol in major cities such as Indore, Bhopal and Jabalpur were almost double the Covid deaths reported, had DPL of 8.18 with 6,913 total deaths reported. In Bhopal, close to 1,400 people were cremated with Covid protocol since April 1, even as official Covid deaths were only 425, said Bhopal-based social activist Seema Kurup, claiming the situation was similar in Indore and Jabalpur. State health minister Prabhuram Chaudhary said, “We did door-to-door survey to identify Covid positive cases and our timely action is the main reason behind low death rate.”However, a recent report by the Seattle-based Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation (IHME) at the University of Washington in Seattle, estimated that actual Covid deaths in India as on May 6 may be 0.654 million (6.54 lakh), almost three times the official count of 0.221 million (2.21 lakh). The IHME, which comes out with annual Global Burden of Disease study, has been using an updated methodology to project Covid deaths in various countries in the world. With this methodology to assess “excess deaths”, the IHME estimates that nearly seven million people have died worldwide as direct victims of the virus. This is about double the number of casualties reported on the basis of official or verifiable sources.The story of vaccination Health ministry data also showed that less than two percent of the population of Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Bihar and Jharkhand population, states accounting for 35% of the country’s population, has been fully vaccinated. Several smaller states such as Tripura, Sikkim and Arunachal Pradesh have much better vaccination numbers.Several state governments have slowed down vaccinations since April 15 due to short supply of vaccines from two Indian manufacturers – Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech – and as many as 12 states have floated global tenders for vaccines.Also Read | Portals of Kedarnath temple open amid strict Covid-19 protocolAccording to the ministry, 2.5% of India’s people have got both doses of vaccination while 9.3% have got a single jab as on May 16, 121 days after vaccination started on January 16. Till May 16, the ministry said, 98.8 million people had got a single dose and 41.7 million both doses of Covid vaccine.The data showed that the progress of vaccination was abysmally low in Bihar, UP and Madhya Pradesh, which account for 32.2% of India’s population. These states combined have so far vaccinated only 1.51% of the population with both doses. Only 5.91% people in these states have been vaccinated with single dose.Another five states, Jharkhand, Punjab, Assam, Tamil Nadu and Telangana, which account for 16% of the national population, have given both doses to 2.32% of its population and single dose to 8.4% of their population got single dose. “If we take the above mentioned 8 states together, they represent 48.2% of India’s population and only 1.78% of their population has got both doses of covid vaccine,” James Wilson, a researcher who has extensively studied health data over the past year, said.Smaller population states such as Ladakh and Tripura have vaccinated more than 12% of their population with both doses, and 29.05% and 23.13% of population, respectively, with single dose. Sikkim & Lakshadweep vaccinated 8.8% & 9.54% of their population with both doses, data shows.(With inputs from state bureaus)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/deaths-spike-vaccination-dips-the-story-from-india-s-states-101621223889787.html
17-05-2021||India||News updates from HT: Mumbai to face 10% cut in water supply from today and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Mumbai to face 10% cut in water supply from todayMumbai will face water crisis for five days starting Monday due to a repair work the Pise Dam, which supplies water to the city, as announced by the BMC last week. Read moreFlight operations at Delhi airport's Terminal 2 to be suspended from midnightThe flight operations at Delhi airport's Terminal 2 will be stopped from the midnight of May 17, according to Delhi International Airport Limited (DIAL). Read moreFifth phase of lockdown begins in Delhi as positivity rate down to 10.4%Delhi on Monday began the fifth phase of a complete lockdown, which was announced last month to curb the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Read moreNagwaswalla happy to help India batsmen face Wagner’s musicArzan Nagwaswalla, 23, has a good bouncer and that would come in handy as batsmen prepare to face Neil Wagner in the WTC final against New Zealand. Read moreMira Rajput shares pic of a child with oxygen mask: 'Breaks my heart. There is no excuse for this'Shahid Kapoor's wife Mira Rajput shared a picture of a child with an oxygen mask, remarking on Instagram Stories that "Breaks my heart." Read moreGauahar Khan finally feels like a new bride as she dresses up in ethereal outfitGauahar Khan took to Instagram and shared stunning images of herself dressed in a beautiful white outfit. Read moreElephant falls & gets stuck in mud, rescued with earth-mover machineA female elephant got stuck in a mud puddle in Karnataka. The incident reportedly occurred in Moleyur range of Bandipur Tiger Reserve. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-mumbai-to-face-10-cut-in-water-supply-from-today-and-all-the-latest-news-101621217725153.html
17-05-2021||India||Maha Covid cases drop, fatality rate remains high||While Maharashtra’s daily Covid-19 cases have witnessed a steady drop over the past week, the state has logged 11,699 deaths in the first fortnight of May, recording a 1.58% case fatality rate (CFR) during the period.CFR is the proportion of people who succumb to a disease of the total people diagnosed with the disease.The state recorded 34,389 new Covid-19 cases and 974 deaths, second-highest single-day record, on Sunday. The case tally is now 5,378,452, while the death toll stands at 81,486.Also Read | 5th phase of lockdown begins in Delhi as positivity rate down to 10.4%Between May 1 and 15, an average of 799 deaths took place daily, while 32 deaths were reported per hour during this period.The CFR in the first 15 days of April stood at 0.51%, as 4,225 deaths were reported against 826,799 infections reported during the two week-period. The first fortnight of the last month saw average daily death of 281. According to Dr Tatyarao Lahane, director, directorate of medical education and research, the CFR will reduce in the next few days as the fatality curve always lags by three-four weeks behind the infection cases curve. “Most of these deaths are of patients who were admitted two to three weeks ago. We will see a drop in fatalities in the coming days,” said Dr Lahane.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maha-covid-cases-drop-fatality-rate-remains-high-101621221429324.html
17-05-2021||India||Andhra govt to give ₹15,000 for funeral expenses of Covid-19 victims||The Andhra Pradesh government has announced a financial assistance of ₹15,000 for the last rites of those who die of coronavirus."Government, hereby, accord permission to all the district collectors to the state for sanction of an amount of ₹15,000 towards funeral charges to the death of every Covid patients," the order issued by the Andhra Pradesh government read.The order issued was undersigned by Principal Secretary of the state Anil Kumar Singhal.The order further said, "The permission accorded above, is subject to meet the expenditure from the allotted funds of combating Covid-19.""The commissioner, Health and Family Welfare of Andhra Pradesh, shall release the required funds to the respective District collectors in the state," it added.According to the official data, there are 2,07,467 active cases of Covid-19 in Andhra Pradesh while the death toll due to infection in the state has mounted to 9,271.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-govt-to-give-rs-15-000-for-funeral-expenses-of-covid-19-victims-101621220411109.html
17-05-2021||India||Cyclone Tauktae now ‘extremely severe’, likely to hit Gujarat coast tonight||Very severe Cyclonic Storm Tauktae (pronounced as TauTe) has intensified into an extremely severe cyclonic storm centered about 160 km west-southwest of Mumbai, 290 km south-southeast of Veraval (Gujarat), 250 km south-southeast of Diu and 840 km south-southeast of Karachi (Pakistan). It presently has a wind speed of 180 to 190 kmph gusting to 210 kmph, according to India Meteorological Department (IMD).It is very likely to move north-northwestwards and reach Gujarat coast Monday evening between 2000 – 2300 hrs IST and cross Gujarat coast between Porbandar & Mahuva (Bhavnagar district) the same evening as a very severe cyclonic storm with a maximum sustained wind speed 155-165 kmph gusting to 185 kmph.Large-scale damage is expected over Porbandar, Amreli Junagarh, Gir Somnath, Botad, Bhavnagar and coastal areas of Ahmedabad. There is likely to be total destruction of thatched houses and extensive damage to kutcha houses; some damage to pucca houses; potential threat from flying objects; bending or uprooting of power and communication poles; major damage to roads; flooding of escape routes; minor disruption of railways; overhead power lines and signalling systems; widespread damage to salt pans and standing crops; blowing down of bushy trees; small boats, country crafts may get detached from moorings; visibility may be severely affected.Some damage is also expected over Devbhoomi Dwarka, Kutch, Jamnagar, Rajkot, Morbi, Valsad, Surat, Vadodara, Bharuch, Navsari and Anand districts.IMD has recommended evacuation of people from vulnerable areas, total suspension of fishing operations, judicious regulation of rail and road traffic, people in affected areas to remain indoors, movement in motor boats and small ships could be unsafe.Also Read | No Covid-19 vaccination drive in Mumbai on Monday due to Cyclone Tauktae“Tauktae will intensify further while on its track and cross the Gujarat coast with a speed of 155 to 165 kmph gusting to 185 kmph. We are not expecting it to become a super cyclone but it is a big and intense system,” said Sunitha Devi, in charge of cyclones at IMD.During the next 12 hours, Tauktae will continue to intensify drawing energy from the ocean. It is very likely to move north northwest wards and reach Gujarat coast by Monday evening. The system is being monitored by Doppler weather RADAR Goa.Tauktae intensified very rapidly from a depression to a cyclone on Friday. There was rapid intensification of the cyclone on Saturday also. “Tauktae intensified by 65 kmph during the past 24 hours fuelled by heat and energy from the ocean,” said Roxy Mathew Koll, a climate scientist at the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology.“With Cyclone Tauktae, this will be the fourth consecutive year of pre-monsoon cyclone over the Arabian Sea. This is also the third consecutive year when a cyclone has come very close to the west coast of India. Sea surface temperatures in Arabian Sea have increased rapidly during the past century and this has led to an increase in the frequency and intensity of cyclones in the Arabian Sea…global warming has presented us with new challenges such as rapid intensification of cyclones, which need to be closely monitored at higher resolution and accuracy using on-site platforms such as buoys and moorings. Improving the Indian Ocean Observing System (IndOOS) and incorporating the global warming signals in the weather models can help us tackle the challenges of intense cyclones in the future,” he added in a statement.Also Read | 4 dead as Cyclone Tauktae hits K’takaSea condition over northeasy Arabian Sea will be very high to phenomenal (up to 14 metres high) and wind speeds (up to 64 knots) on Monday and Tuesday. Sea condition will be very rough to high ((9-14 metres wave height/38-63 wind speed in kts) along and off north Maharashtra coast on Monday morning. It is very likely to be very rough to high along and off south Gujarat coast from Monday morning and very high to phenomenal from Monday.Tidal wave above astronomical tide (of about 3 m over Junagarh,1 to 2.5 m over Diu, Gir Somnath, Amreli, Bharuch, Bhavnagar, Ahmedabad, Anand, Surat and 0.5-1m over Devbhoomi Dwarka, Jamnagar, Porbandar, Kutch) are likely to inundate the coastal areas of Gujarat during the time of landfall.Light to moderate rainfall is likely at most places with heavy to very heavy falls at a few places and extremely heavy rain (over 20 cm) at isolated places over south Konkan, north Konkan and Goa and adjoining Ghat areas on Sunday and Monday and heavy to very heavy falls at isolated places on Monday.Over Gujarat, light to moderate rainfall is likely to commence over coastal districts of Saurashtra from Sunday afternoon, with heavy to very heavy falls at isolated places over Saurashtra, Kutch, Diu and southern most Gujarat region with extremely heavy falls at isolated places on Monday and heavy to very heavy falls at a few places over Saurashtra, Kutch, Diu and south Gujarat region with extremely heavy falls (≥ 20 cm) at isolated places on Tuesday. Extremely heavy rainfall is also likely over south Rajasthan on Tuesday.Gale wind speed reaching 130–140 kmph gusting to 155 kmph is prevailing over eastcentral Arabian Sea. It is likely to increase over eastcentral Arabian Sea becoming 145-155 kmph gusting to 170 kmph from Sunday midnight. Squally wind speed reaching 40-50 kmph gusting to 60 kmph likely over northeast Arabian Sea and along and off south Gujarat, Daman and Diu coasts from Sunday and gradually increase becoming gale winds speed reaching 150-160 kmph gusting to 175 kmph over northeast Arabian Sea and along and off Gujarat coast (Porbandar, Junagarh, Gir Somnath, Amreli, Bhavnagar) and 100 -120 kmph gusting to 135 kmph over Bharuch, Anand, south Ahmedabad, Botad, Surendranagar, 90 -100 kmph gusting to 120 kmph over Devbhoomi Dwarka, Jamnagar, Rajkot, Morbi districts of Gujarat from early hours of Tuesday. Gale winds speed reaching 70-90 kmph gusting to 100 kmph likely to prevail along and off Dadra, Nagar Haveli, Daman, Valsad, Navsari, Surat, Kheda districts from Monday midnight till Tuesday morning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tauktae-to-make-landfall-on-gujarat-coast-early-tuesday-morning-101621220349415.html
17-05-2021||India||Triple lockdown in Kerala: Check out new restrictions||Triple lockdown has come into effect in four districts of Kerala reporting highest number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the state, from Sunday midnight and will remain in force till May 23. The boundaries of Thiruvananthapuram, Ernakulam, Thrissur and Malappuram districts were sealed as part of the administration's effort to curb the massive spread of coronavirus, while the current lockdown will continue in the other 10 districts of the state.Kerala on Sunday recorded 29,704 fresh Covid-19 cases. With 89 new fatalities, the death toll went up to 6,428. The test positivity was recorded at 25.61%.Here's the fresh guidelines for the triple lockdown:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/triple-lockdown-in-kerala-check-out-new-restrictions-101621211247480.html
17-05-2021||India||The economy story is unravelling just 46 days into FY22||On May 16, the Delhi government ordered the extension of the lockdown in the national capital by one more week. The lockdown, which has been in place for a month already, is bound to have an adverse impact on economic activity. Even though there is no nationwide lockdown at the moment, most parts of India are under varying degrees of mobility restrictions. What will be the economic impact of these restrictions? Here is what we know and do not know about the evolving economic story, a month and a half into the fiscal year 2021-22.March 2021: The month of exuberanceLast week, the National Statistical Office (NSO) released the Index of Industrial Production (IIP) numbers for the month of March 2021. The headline growth number of 22.4% had a large base effect. IIP had contracted by 18.7% in March 2020. However, this does not negate the fact that industrial production across categories was at its highest levels in March 2021 since the pandemic disrupted economic activity. This is borne out by a comparison of absolute values of IIP sub-indices from March 2020 to March 2021.That workplace mobility, as per data from Google mobility indices, also peaked in March 2021 -- it has fallen sharply since then -- also suggests that economic normalisation was being widely perceived as a possibility. 2021-22 was being seen as the year of restoration of normal economic activity. In hindsight, this exuberance was one of the key factors which led to lowered vigilance and allowed the second wave of the pandemic to disrupt economic activity once again.April 2021: Food price-driven moderation in inflationRetail inflation, as measured by the Consumer Price Index (CPI), went down by 123 basis points – one basis point is one hundredth of a percentage point – between March and April 2021 to grow at 4.29%. The headline number was driven by a sharp fall in food inflation, which grew at 2.02% in April compared to 4.87% in March. Vegetable prices suffered the largest fall in this category, with prices contracting by 14.2% on an annual basis.To be sure, prices of some food items such as edible oils, pulses and meat products continued to grow at a high pace. Some economists believe that fall in price of staples such as cereals, vegetables and milk, especially the latter two, could be a result of supply chain disruptions and a fall in demand due to lockdown driven headwinds to incomes. The overall trajectory of inflation could remain elevated as petrol-diesel prices have started rising once again in May after the pause due to elections and prices in the producer market, such as of metals, continue to remain high. Wholesale Price Index (WPI), which captures producer prices in India, grew at 7.4% in March 2021. The April value had not been released until May 16, 2021. Fall in food prices, while all prices rise, will put a squeeze on farm incomes.Double whammy for labour marketsEven before the second wave disrupted economic activity, the recovery was being seen as profit-led rather than wage-led. While the Indian economy re-entered expansion zone in the quarter ending October-December 2020, employment and wages were still to retain pre-pandemic levels. According to a recent report released by the Azim Premji University, the pandemic also led to a worsening in quality of employment, with a large number of erstwhile salaried workers joining the ranks of the precariously self-employed. The second wave and subsequent restrictions have given the labour market yet another blow. Data from the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE) – there are no high-frequency official statistics on employment – show that overall unemployment rate climbed up to 7.97% in April 2021, the highest since December 2020. In urban areas, the unemployment rate was 9.78% in April 2021, the highest since August 2020. The situation is likely to get worse in May as more areas have come under lockdown or similar restrictions.What about taxes?It is still early days in 2021-22. But the second wave has already cast its shadow on the growth prospects. Private forecasters have started downward revisions of their GDP projections for the year. The government itself has acknowledged the possibility of a third wave now. Any downward revision in growth prospects of the economy will also entail a shortfall in taxes from an already low base. The central government’s Gross Tax Revenue receipts given in 2020-21 Budget Estimates were reduced by more than 20% in the Revised Estimates (RE) given in the 2021-22 Budget. The Controller General of Accounts (CGA) is yet to release provisional tax collection figures for the month of March 2021, so even the fate of RE numbers remains unknown. Any significant shortfall in taxes will force the government to cut down its spending, unless it increases its borrowing to meet the shortfall, which will only make the task of economic revival more difficult. A Reuters story quoted a government official as saying that “lockdowns will start affecting tax collections by June, potentially lowering revenues 15%-20% from what was estimated for the quarter”.Get our daily newsletter
17-05-2021||India||Complete lockdown in Sikkim from Monday amid Covid-19 surge: Check details here||Sikkim will go for a complete lockdown from May 17 to 24 amid the surge in coronavirus cases (Covid-19) even during the ongoing partial lockdown.Lockdown-like restrictions were imposed in Sikkim from May 6 and that it was in effect till May 16. The decision to impose a complete lockdown came after a review of the situation on Friday when it was found that the average positivity rate of the virus in the state has continued to be more than 20% in the last few weeks.There are 3,010 active cases in Sikkim, while 202 patients have recovered in the last 24 hours. Check out the fresh guidelines here:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/complete-lockdown-in-sikkim-from-monday-amid-covid-19-surge-check-details-here-101621210053442.html
17-05-2021||India||Covid-19 cases case among Odisha tribal group rises, 35 infected||With the second wave of Covid-19 sweeping across rural areas of Odisha, infections among the Particularly Vulnerable Tribal Groups (PVTGs), including the Bonda and Dongaria Kondh tribes, have increased to 35 within a fortnight, officials familiar with the development said on Sunday.According to the officials, 12 members of the Bonda tribe, known for its secluded lifestyle, have tested positive for Covid-19 since the first case was reported on April 26.Bondas live in highlands, 3,500-feet above sea level, in Malkangiri, the southernmost district of Odisha. There are about 6,000 Bondas in Odisha.“So far we have tested 61 Bonda tribals and found 12 positive. Four persons have recovered and the remaining 8 are in home isolation. Health conditions of the affected persons are being closely monitored by our rapid response team (RRT) and required medicines are being given. We are taking all precautionary measures to ensure that the virus does not spread any further,” said Prafulla Nanda, the chief district medical officer in Malkangiri.Similarly, 23 members of the Dongria Kondh tribe, another PVTG group, have tested positive for the viral disease in Parasali panchayat of Kalyansinghpur block in Rayagada. Kalyansinghpur block development officer, Kalucharan Nayak, said at least four people have recovered from the disease so far, while the remaining are in home isolation. The 10,000-odd Dongaria Kondhs live in 112 villages on the Niyamgiri mountain plateau on Rayagada-Kalahandi border.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-cases-case-among-odisha-tribal-group-rises-35-infected-101621210146796.html
17-05-2021||India||Four vacancies in Upper House after assembly elections||Four vacancies have come up in the Rajya Sabha after the latest round of assembly elections, with the members of the Upper House getting elected in assemblies of the states. Some members will also serve as ministers in their respective states.Trinamool Congress MP Dr Manas Bhuyan, who got elected to the Rajya Sabha on 2017, contested the assembly polls and is now the water resources investigation and development minister of the state.R Vaithilingam of the AIADMK, who was set to retire in 2022 from the Upper House, resigned from Parliament after he won from the Orathanadu constituency. He will be in the Opposition bench of the Tamil Nadu assembly.His party colleague, KP Munusamy, also resigned from Parliament to become a member of the Tamil Nadu assembly. Munusamy won the Veppanahalli constituency. Another Rajya Sabha MP, Biswajit Daimary from Assam, has also quit the Upper House. According to some state officials, the Bharatiya Janata Party MLA is tipped to be the next Speaker of the state assembly.As per the procedure, byelections will take place to fill up these vacancies. While the TMC and the BJP would be able to retain the seats vacated by their MPs, in Tamil Nadu, both seats vacated by the AIADMK MPs are likely to go to the ruling DMK.Nominated MP Swapan Dasgupta had also resigned from the Upper House before contesting the West Bengal elections, where he lost. While the four seats in Assam, Bengal and Tamil Nadu would face bypolls, the President of India will have to nominate an eminent person for Dasgupta’s seat. The rules, however, allow the renomination of Dasgupta.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/four-vacancies-in-upper-house-after-assembly-elections-101621209942855.html
17-05-2021||India||Rajnath Singh to release 1st batch of DRDO's 2DG medicine today||The first batch of the 2-deoxy-D-glucose (2-DG) drug developed by the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) for treatment of Covid-19 will be released by Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Monday.Rajnath Singh's office tweeted,"Raksha Mantri Rajnath Singh will release the first batch of anti-Covid drug 2DG via video conferencing facility tomorrow at 10.30 AM. The drug has been developed by DRDO's Institute of Nuclear Medicine and Allied Sciences (INMAS) in collaboration with Dr Reddy's Laboratories."The first batch of 10,000 doses of 2DG medicine would be launched early next week, informed Defence Research and Development Organisation officials to ANI on Friday.The official informed, "The first batch of 10,000 doses of 2DG medicine for the treatment of Covid-19 infected patients would be launched early next week and will be given to patients.""The drug manufacturers are working on ramping up the production of the medicine for future use. The drug has been developed by a team of DRDO scientists including Dr Anant Narayan Bhatt", informed DRDO officials."An anti-Covid-19 therapeutic application of the drug 2-deoxy-D-glucose (2-DG) has been developed by Institute of Nuclear Medicine and Allied Sciences (INMAS), a lab of Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO), in collaboration with Dr Reddy's Laboratories (DRL), Hyderabad", informed an official release by Ministry of Defence.Clinical trial results have shown that this molecule helps in faster recovery of hospitalised patients and reduces supplemental oxygen dependence. Higher proportion of patients treated with 2-DG showed RT-PCR negative conversion in COVID patients. The drug will be of immense benefit to the people suffering from Covid-19.Pursuing Prime Minister Narendra Modi's call for preparedness against the pandemic, DRDO took the initiative of developing anti-Covid therapeutic application of 2-DG. In April 2020, during the first wave of the pandemic, INMAS-DRDO scientists conducted laboratory experiments with the help of Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB), Hyderabad and found that this molecule works effectively against SARS-CoV-2 virus and inhibits the viral growth.Based on these results, Drugs Controller General of India's (DCGI) Central Drugs Standard Control Organization (CDSCO) permitted Phase-II clinical trial of 2-DG in Covid-19 patients in May 2020.The DRDO, along with its industry partner DRL, Hyderabad, started the clinical trials to test the safety and efficacy of the drug in Covid-19 patients. In Phase-II trials (including dose ranging) conducted during May to October 2020, the drug was found to be safe in Covid-19 patients and showed significant improvement in their recovery. Phase IIa was conducted in six hospitals and Phase IIb (dose ranging) clinical trial was conducted at 11 hospitals all over the country. Phase-II trial was conducted on 110 patients.In efficacy trends, the patients treated with 2-DG showed faster symptomatic cure than Standard of Care (SoC) on various endpoints. A significantly favourable trend (2.5 days difference) was seen in terms of the median time to achieving normalisation of specific vital signs parameters when compared to SoC.Based on successful results, DCGI further permitted the Phase-III clinical trials in November 2020. The Phase-III clinical trial was conducted on 220 patients between December 2020 to March 2021 at 27 Covid hospitals in Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal, Gujarat, Rajasthan, Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu. The detailed data of phase-III clinical trial was presented to DCGI.In 2-DG arm, significantly higher proportion of patients improved symptomatically and became free from supplemental oxygen dependence (42 per cent vs 31 per cent) by Day-3 in comparison to SoC, indicating an early relief from Oxygen therapy/dependence.The similar trend was observed in patients aged more than 65 years. On May 01, 2021, DCGI granted permission for Emergency Use of this drug as adjunct therapy in moderate to severe Covid-19 patients. Being a generic molecule and analogue of glucose, it can be easily produced and made available in plenty in the country.The drug comes in powder form in sachet, which is taken orally by dissolving it in water. It accumulates in the virus infected cells and prevents virus growth by stopping viral synthesis and energy production. Its selective accumulation in virally infected cells makes this drug unique.In the ongoing second Covid-19 wave, a large number of patients are facing severe oxygen dependency and need hospitalisation. The drug is expected to save precious lives due to the mechanism of operation of the drug in infected cells. This also reduces the hospital stay of Covid-19 patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajnath-singh-to-release-1st-batch-of-drdo-s-2dg-medicine-today-101621207753038.html
17-05-2021||India||Thousands evacuated from west coast as cyclone Tauktae lashes states||India is evacuating thousands of people from low-lying areas along its western coast as a powerful cyclone that has killed at least six people is expected to make landfall on Tuesday morning in the state of Gujarat.Cyclone Tauktae, which formed in the Arabian sea, has already brought lashing rain and winds that damaged houses and uprooted trees to parts of western and southern India."It is very likely to intensify further during the 24 hours, and move north-northwestwards and reach Gujarat coast in the evening of 17th (May)," the India Meteorological Department said in a statement.The cyclone is expected to cross Gujarat with wind gusts of up to 175 kmph (109 mph).Nearly 150,000 people will be moved from villages and low-lying areas near the coast and directions have been issued to complete the evacuation process by Sunday evening, the Gujarat government said in a statement.As the cyclone has moved north at least six people have been killed in the western states of Goa and Karnataka, according to officials and statements.Further south, 31 boats registered with the state of Tamil Nadu were missing, a coastguard official told Reuters.The meteorological agency also warned that there could be flooding of escape routes. Disruption to railway services was also expected until May 21.The National Crisis Management Committee also chaired a meeting with different states on Sunday and said that nearly 80 disaster management teams have been deployed in different states.Rescue and relief teams from the army, navy and coastguard, along with ships and aircraft, have also been deployed."All measures being taken to evacuate people in the areas affected by the cyclone so as to ensure zero loss of life," the government said in a statement.VACCINATIONS SUSPENDEDIn Gujarat, the cyclone will also pose challenges for the state-administration that is dealing with a high case load of Covid-19 patients.Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani has asked officials to ensure that electricity supplies to Covid-19 hospitals and other medical facilities are not disrupted and the supply of oxygen is maintained, the state government said. Vaccinations have also been suspended for the next two days.In the neighbouring state of Maharashtra, the government has moved Covid-19 patients admitted to makeshift centres in the state capital, Mumbai, to other hospitals as the cyclone advances towards Gujarat, the chief minister's office said.Gujarat is also home to large refineries and ports that may end up in the storm's path.All necessary precautions were being taken at the Jamnagar refinery, the world's biggest oil refinery complex, owned by Reliance Industries, a company spokesperson said.Operations at Mundra port, India's largest private port, in Gujarat were continuing normally, two officials at the port told Reuters on Sunday morning."We are observing the situation, and will take action accordingly," an official said.Authorities at Kandla Port, the largest government-run port in the country, said steps had been taken to evacuate around 5,000 people from low lying areas."We have already issued an advisory, and have stopped taking any vessels inside. There will be no berthing tomorrow morning, and all vessels will be sent to the high seas," S.K. Mehta, chairman of Kandla Port, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/thousands-evacuated-from-west-coast-as-cyclone-tauktae-lashes-states-101621206477929.html
17-05-2021||India||Five of DU faculty die of Covid-19 in six days||Five faculty members of the Delhi University (DU), including a department head and a 33-year-old ad-hoc teacher, have succumbed to Covid-19 in last six days, leaving their colleagues and students shocked and distressed. Besides, a 24-year-old research scholar at the university, who has recently submitted his MPhil thesis, also died of the infection on Saturday.According to the DU Teachers’ Association (DUTA), 33 working faculty members have died of Covid-19 since March.Among the dead, two were associated with Deshbandhu College, and two with Daulat Ram College.Professor Veena Kukreja, 64, head of the department of Political Science also died of Covid-19.Deshbandhu College principal Rajiv Agarwal said, “We have lost two assistant professors and a library attendant in the last few days to Covid-19. We are still in a shock”Colleagues and students remember Veena Kukreja, who had teaching experience of over 35 years, as a “dedicated teacher” and “generous colleague”. In a note, officiating head of the political science department Rekha Saxena, said, “We will always remember her silent, but strong and smiling personality, who cared for every student and colleague alike. In a long career of more than 35 years, she shone as an eminent scholar, a dedicated teacher...with impeccable integrity and commitment to human values.”In Daulat Ram College, which has lost two teachers between May 11 and May 13, principal Savita Roy said, “The loss of these two faculty members is an irreplaceable loss to academia,” she said. One of the two teachers, Chaudhary, 33, was the only earning member in his family.The university has recently reviewed the DU Teachers’ Welfare Fund (DUTWF) which was meant to help teachers in the time of crisis. The university will provide financial help to teachers who died after March 1, 2021, due to Covid and it has included ad-hoc teachers for an ex-gratia payment of ₹5 lakh now.Vijay Prakash Singh, 24, a research scholar at the university’s department of Political Science, also succumbed to the virus on Saturday. His supervisor at Lakshmi Bai College, Pinki Maurya said, “He was a resident of Delhi and the only child of his parents. We had spoken last month after his MPhil thesis submission and to discuss the PhD thesis topic and he was absolutely fine.”On Sunday, DUTA wrote to DU acting vice-chancellor (VC) PC Joshi requesting him to extend the duration of the ongoing semester and further suspend online classes, which are set to resume on Monday. The acting V-C said, “The online classes have already been suspended in DU. We will review the situation and have a discussion with all deans and heads of departments if further suspension is required.”Other universities in Delhi have also been witnessing the heat of the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/five-of-du-faculty-die-of-covid-19-in-six-days-101621206165948.html
17-05-2021||India||Clean chit to BV Srinivas, 8 others in hoarding case||The Delhi Police have prima facie found no evidence against nine people — including B V Srinivas, the president of the Indian Youth Congress (IYC) — who were probed for allegedly hoarding and black marketing Covid-19 medical supplies, according to a status report filed before the Delhi high court on Saturday.The report said the nine people were “actually helping people” and “did not defraud” anyone. To be sure, the nine are still being probed and the clean chit is only on the basis of preliminary findings. HT has seen a copy of the report.The investigating officer, who questioned Srinivas, BJP leaders Gautam Gambhir, Harish Khurana and Aam Aadmi Party(AAP) leader Dilip Pandey, among others, has sought six weeks to conduct a “detailed investigation”.The high court will hear the matter on Monday.In the status report, police have attached the statements of the nine persons who were interrogated. On May 4, the Delhi high court had asked police to conduct an investigation after a writ petition was filed by a Delhi resident accusing the politicians mentioned above of procuring crucial Covid-19 medicines and supplies, hoarding them, and distributing them while citizens did not have access to them.The police’s visit to the IYC headquarters and questioning Srinivas had kicked up a storm on social media. Many accused Delhi police of harassing those who are actually helping in delivering medicines, oxygen cylinders, or finding beds at hospitals at a time when people are struggling to get these resources.Officials aware of the police’s preliminary findings said all the alleged accused persons denied taking money from the person they helped.For instance, former Congress MLA Mukesh Sharma said in his statement that he used social media to give people information about the medical stores available in his area but denied buying a single strip of medicine.BJP MP from East Delhi, Gautam Gambhir, too denied the allegations. He said the Gautam Gambhir Foundation had organised a free medical camp between April 22 and May 7 to provide assistance to people suffering from Covid-19. In his statement, Gambhir mentioned that the camp was organised by a doctor, who had volunteered his services. HT is withholding the name of the doctor as he has not been questioned by the police or named in the complaint.Gambhir said, “A total of 2,628 strips of Fabiflu were purchased from authorised vendors against the prescription of Dr……..It is stated that while payments were made by Gautam Gambhir Foundation, however, the aforesaid medicine was delivered by respective vendors directly to Dr….”Srinivas, in his statement, said that the enquiry against him and other members of the IYC was harassment because he and some of his colleagues have been at the forefront of providing relief.He also mentioned that he was harassed because their party (Congress) had opposed the Centre’s handling of the Covid crisis. The IYC president said he, along with other volunteers, connect people in need with the appropriate resources. He also said they “receive oxygen equipment as donations and provide it free of cost to the people.”Former Rajya Sabha MP Shahid Siddiqui, who was questioned on how he got two remdesivir injection vials from Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi, told police that his SOS request on social media was considered by Priyanka, who provided two doses of the medicines, which were procured for Congress leader Rahul Gandhi but were not used.Siddiqui had criticised police for probing how people were receiving help amid the crisis instead of focusing on other important cases.On Friday, Delhi police said they were probing the case and enquiring the role of those who were helping Covid-19 patients and their families only on the orders of the high court.Last week, the HC dismissed a plea against AAP MLA Imran Hussain when the Delhi government submitted that he was not drawing it from state quota and distributing it for free..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/clean-chit-to-bv-srinivas-8-others-in-hoarding-case-101621204731641.html
17-05-2021||India||Rapid tests for Covid-19 key in Centre’s rural SOP||The Centre is focusing on coronavirus disease (Covid-19) containment and management in non-urban areas, as “a gradual ingress is now being seen in peri-urban, rural and tribal areas as well”, said new detailed guidelines that the Union health ministry released on Sunday, adding that the disease is still predominantly an urban phenomenon.The focus will be on locally managed care centres and scaling up rapid testing where RT-PCR facilities are not accessible.“With larger spread of Covid-19 cases in peri-urban, rural and tribal areas, it is important to ensure that community-based services and primary level health infrastructure in these areas are equipped and oriented to manage Covid-19 cases,” the health ministry said in the guidelines.Gram panchayats have been assigned the prime responsibility of coordinating community action and awareness creation at village level and the block development officer (BDO) at the taluka level. The efforts on the medical care side will be coordinated by the village health, nutrition and sanitation committee (VHSNC) along with the primary health centre and sub-centre.Surveillance, screening, isolation and referralThe centre has directed states to periodically conduct surveillance for influenza-like illness or severe acute respiratory infections (ILI/SARI) using accredited social health activists (ASHA) , with the help of VHSNCs. Symptomatic cases can be triaged at village level by teleconsultation with the Community Health Officer (CHO), and cases with comorbidity or low oxygen saturation will be sent to higher centres. All subcentres will run an ILI/SARI out patient department for dedicated time slots every week.Suspected Covid-19 patients will be linked for testing to the health facilities either through rapid antigen testing or by referral of samples to the nearest Covid-19 testing laboratory.Provision of Rapid Antigen Test (RAT) kits will be made at all public health facilities including sub-centres, health and wellness centres, and primary health centres, and community health officers as well as auxiliary nurse midwives will be trained in performing these tests. The suspected cases will need to be counselled to isolate themselves till test results are available.“It is important to test symptomatic cases so that positive individuals can be isolated early, and stopped from spreading the infection within the community. ILI and SARI cases need to get tested to rule out Covid-19 as symptoms can be similar,” said Dr GC Khilnani, senior pulmonologist and former head of the pulmonology department, AIIMS, Delhi.Those asymptomatic but having history of high-risk exposure to Covid-19 patients (exposure of more than 15 minutes without a mask within six-feet distance) need to be quarantined and tested as per the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) protocol.“Depending upon the intensity of the surge and number of cases, as far as feasible, contact tracing should be done as per the integrated disease surveillance programme’s guidelines.”Home and community-based isolationAbout 80-85% of the Covid-19 positive cases are mild and do not require hospitalisation; these can largely be managed at home. However, there are still conditions laid down for home isolation by the health ministry such as having a separate room and washroom for those isolating, a caretaker available 24x7, among other things that need to be strictly adhered to.“Of all the positive cases that need hospitalisation, about 5% will develop serious illness needing intensive care. The rest can be managed with oxygen therapy,” said Dr Khilnani.Each village needs to have an adequate number of pulse oximeters and thermometers, as monitoring of oxygen saturation is important for Covid-19 patients.“A system of providing pulse oximeters and thermometers on loan to families with a confirmed case of Covid should be developed through ASHA/Anganwadi workers and village-level volunteers. The pulse oximeters and thermometers should be sanitised after each use with cotton/cloth soaked in an alcohol-based sanitiser,” the guidelines say.A home Isolation kit will be provided to all such cases which should include required medicines such as paracetamol 500mg for fever, anti-parasitic ivermectin, cough syrup, multivitamins (as prescribed by the treating doctor).The government has directed peri-urban and rural areas to plan a minimum 30-bed Covid care centre that will offer care for asymptomatic cases with comorbidities or mild cases where home isolation is not feasible. Family members of a positive case also need to quarantine, and be watchful of symptoms.Human resourcesThe community health officer, auxiliary nurse midwife, or multipurpose health worker will be the nodal person for the Covid care centres from the health sector, and accredited social health activist or anganwadi worker will support them. Qualified Ayush doctors, or final year Ayush students, or final-year BSc nurses can run the care centre, according to the prescribed guidelines.Tribal Covid careTribal areas pose additional challenges and hence require additional focus. “Tribal communities are geographically and socioeconomically relatively segregated and may have poor access to health care. Strengthening community-based management through Gram Sabhas should be taken and they should be involved at every stage of planning and executing Covid-care activities,” said the guidelines, adding that there needs to be integration of Covid care with mobile medical units under the national health mission in tribal areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rapid-tests-for-covid-19-key-in-centre-s-rural-sop-101621203594146.html
17-05-2021||India||Bengal tiger called India on the loose in US locality captured||A tiger that frightened residents after it was last seen briefly wandering around a Houston neighborhood has been found and appears to be unharmed, police announced Saturday evening.In a short video tweeted by Houston police, Cmdr. Ron Borza can be seen sitting next to the tiger, petting the animal.“But we got him and he’s healthy,” Borza said as the wife of the man police allege is the animal’s owner sat next to him and fed the tiger with a baby bottle. The tiger was being held at BARC, the city of Houston’s animal shelter, but was expected to be taken Sunday morning to the Cleveland Amory Black Beauty Ranch, an animal sanctuary in Murchison, Texas.Authorities were searching for the tiger, a 9-month-old male named India, since it was spotted Sunday in a west Houston neighborhood. Borza said that the wife of the tiger’s alleged owner, Victor Hugo Cuevas, turned over the tiger to police on Saturday after a friend of hers reached out to officials at BARC.Police are still trying to determine where exactly the tiger was held this week and if any charges related to having the tiger will be filed. Tigers are not allowed within Houston city limits under a city ordinance unless the handler, such as a zoo, is licensed to have exotic animals.The attorney for the alleged owners has insisted that his client doesn’t own the tiger. “I am not sure it makes any difference who owns India as he does not have a birth certificate or title.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-tiger-called-india-on-the-loose-in-us-locality-captured-101621202060836.html
17-05-2021||India||Delhiwale: It’s all Lodhi to me||It is baking in the hot sun — Ghiyas-ud-din Balban’s tomb in Mehrauli Archaeological Park. The roof has collapsed, so have parts of the stone wall. Like many Delhi monuments, the edifice doesn’t convey the grandness of its early days. Squirrels are frolicking irreverently about the grave.Balban was one of the sultans of Delhi Sultanate that spanned five dynasties, 32 rulers and 320 years. The Sultanate’s surviving landmarks are scattered across Delhi — in Feroz Shah Kotla, Hauz Khas, Mehrauli, Hazrat Nizamuddin, Shahjahanabad, Siri Fort and Tughlaqabad — yet it’s the later Mughal-era monuments, such as Red Fort and Jama Masjid, that seem livelier.Perhaps because the Mughals are our more recent past, and the stories of their princes and poets remain fresh. The society of the Sultanate appears hazy, the lives of its greats barely familiar. Indeed, to us Delhiites, every monument unknown to us could as well be a Lodhi tomb.One of the city’s most dreamlike — but unsung Sultanate-era — ruins lies near the IIT. Bijay Mandal (see photo) is believed to be the palace of Muhammad bin Tughlaq. It sits on a rocky slope. The Tangier-born traveller Ibn Battuta, a guest of Tughlaq, described it as a hall of a thousand wooden columns supporting a carved wooden roof. All that has survived are collapsed walls, a damp stairways and a broken roof.But of course, Qutub Minar in Mehrauli is the Sultanate’s most recognisable souvenir. The problem is that it outshines everything else within its vicinity. Including a certain marble grave that is today reduced to a setting for (pre-pandemic) tourists to pose for selfies. This though is the resting place of Iltutmish, the Sultanate’s second ruler who became medieval India’s greatest feminist. He chose as his successor none of his sons, but daughter, Razia.The meeting point of modern-day lovers and power fixers, Lodhi Garden — named after the Sultanate’s last dynasty — houses, among other historic landmarks, the tomb of Sikandar Lodhi, who shifted the capital from Delhi to Agra in 1505. Sikandar Lodhi also holds the distinction of fathering the last ruler of the Sultanate. Ibrahim Lodhi was defeated and killed in a fateful battle with Babur, who heralded a new age—and a new series of Delhi monuments, starting with the Humayun’s Tomb.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhiwale-it-s-all-lodhi-to-me-101621194703249.html
17-05-2021||India||Politics heats up over arrests in posters case||Opposition parties on Sunday stepped up their attack on the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), targeting the ruling party at the Centre over police action against at least 25 people in Delhi over posters criticising the Prime Minister over sending Covid-19 vaccines abroad.While Congress MP Rahul Gandhi attached a digital version of the poster to his Twitter handle and said “arrest me too”, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader Durgesh Pathak also dared the Centre to arrest him, saying that the AAP pasted the posters across the city.Nearly 1,800 digitally printed posters, reading “Modiji hamare bachchon ki vaccine videsh kyon bhej diya?” (Modiji, why did you send vaccines meant for our children abroad?) were found in east Delhi’s Kalyanpuri between Wednesday and Thursday.The Delhi Police on Sunday said their probe revealed that AAP workers in south, west and east Delhi printed and pasted the posters. The police said 25 people were arrested till Saturday evening in as many cases registered at different police stations across the city under the Delhi Disaster Management Act, the Indian Penal Code and the Prevention of Defacement of Property Act.The Congress alleged attempts by the Modi government to muzzle criticism. Party spokesperson Pawan Khera said: “On behalf of lakhs of lakhs people, who died before their time, on behalf of those living in worry, tensions and sorrow, I will ask you, where is my vaccine? Why did you sell my vaccine?”, adding that these questions will be asked on behalf of the common people.The AAP said that the police have detained over 500 party workers in connection with the posters and asserted that they will make it a national campaign.“The AAP is behind these posters. I am behind the posters. If you want to arrest people, please arrest us (senior leaders) and our MLAs, but please stop harassing poor people… We will not stop. We will make it a national campaign,” said AAP leader and municipal affairs incharge Durgesh Pathak at a press conference on Sunday.In a statement on Sunday, the police said posters in east Delhi were digitally prepared by Rahul Kumar, a 26-year-old resident of Mangolpuri who runs a graphics designing shop by the name of Mamta Graphics at his house. Rahul made a digital copy of these posters as per an image received from AAP worker Arvind Gautam, a resident of Sultanpuri Majra. Gautam paid ₹9,000 for printing and pasting these posters. Rahul placed an order via email with one Rajesh Sharma, 48, owner of Addline Printing Press and a resident of Mangopuri, to get the posters printed.Delhi’s deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Sunday tweeted: “Who sold vaccines meant for our children to other countries for event management?”However, on being asked if his tweet was in connection with the poster matter, he did not comment.Later, referring to the image of a billboard of Modi greeting people in Toronto, Sisodia tweeted: “The government which was patting its back over vaccine posters abroad has chickened out over bills pasted on its own turf.”Senior Congress leader Jairam Ramesh said he will put up those posters in front of his official bungalow in Lodhi Estate to show solidarity with the protesters. “Putting up critical posters against PM is now a crime? Is India run by the Modi Penal Code now? Is the Delhi Police so jobless in the middle of a raging pandemic?? I am putting up posters on my compound wall tomorrow. Come get me,” he tweeted, tagging the Delhi Police and Union home minister Amit Shah.Pathak alleged that nearly 500 workers have been detained for questioning and several others from Karawal Nagar, Gonda jailed for questioning the government. “And now when people are asking the Prime Minister why vaccines meant for our children were sent abroad, the Delhi Police – that comes under the central government -- is filing FIRs and arresting our party workers.”Youth Congress president Srinivas BV, who has been running a successful Covid-19 relief programme, tweeted a photo in which he was holding a similar poster. “If Modi ji had not ‘exported’ more than 6 crores vaccine to make his image shine, how many Indians would have been alive today? how many families would have been saved from desolation? If asking these questions is a crime, then every worker of Youth Congress is ready to arrest.”The police said their probe has shown that in South Delhi, Sanjay Chaudhary, allegedly an AAP functionary, directed his party worker to print the posters. It also claimed that in west Delhi another AAP worker told people to print and paste the posters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/politics-heats-up-over-arrests-in-posters-case-101621193469423.html
17-05-2021||India||Top virologist quits Covid-19 panel after airing differences with govt||A top Indian virologist has resigned from a forum of scientific advisers set up by the government to detect variants of the coronavirus, he told Reuters on Sunday, weeks after questioning the authorities' handling of the pandemic.Shahid Jameel, chair of the scientific advisory group of the forum known as INSACOG, declined to give a reason for his resignation."I am not obliged to give a reason," he said in a text message, adding that he quit on Friday.Renu Swarup, the secretary of the Department of Biotechnology that oversees INSACOG, did not immediately respond to a request for comment. Health Minister Harsh Vardhan also did not immediately respond to a text message seeking comment.Another INSACOG member said he was not aware of any direct disagreements between Jameel and the government.A top government scientist who is part of the forum said, on the condition of anonymity, that he did not think the departure of Jameel would hamper INSACOG's monitoring of virus variants.Reuters reported earlier this month that INSACOG, the Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genetics Consortium, warned government officials in early March of a new and more contagious variant of the coronavirus taking hold in the country. The variant, B.1.617, is one of the reasons India is currently battling the world's worst surge in Covid-19 cases.Asked why the government did not respond more forcefully to the findings, for example by restricting large gatherings, Jameel had told Reuters that he was concerned that authorities were not paying enough attention to the evidence as they set policy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/top-virologist-quits-covid-19-panel-after-airing-differences-with-govt-101621192263352.html
17-05-2021||India||34,200 kg raw material to produce oxygen arrives in Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Around 34,200 kg of Zeolite, a component essential for the production of oxygen generation, arrived in Bengaluru from Rome on Sunday, according to a statement from the airport authorities.“Two Air India flights, carrying 34,200 kg of Zeolite from Rome, arrived at the Kempegowda International Airport, Bengaluru, on May 16, 2021. This is the first of the many batches of Zeolite that would be imported by the Government of India to generate oxygen,” Bengaluru International Airport Limited (BIAL) said in a statement on Sunday.The component is being imported for the use of the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO).Zeolite is used in oxygen production plants that are based on pressure swing absorption technology to help mitigate the acute shortage and growing demand for oxygen in India, according to a PTI report.The agency reported that seven chartered flights have been scheduled between May 15 to 18 from Rome to Bangalore followed by eight flights from Korea.Karnataka, one of the worst Covid-19 impacted states in the country, has also seen its oxygen supplies dip, leading to shortages in hospitals and resulting in deaths.It is depended on the Centre and other states to make up for its oxygen requirements. The state has also procured oxygen from other countries including Kuwait and Bahrain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/34200-kg-raw-material-to-produce-oxygen-arrives-in-bengaluru-101621192627663.html
17-05-2021||India||B’luru records a sharp dip in cases with 8k fresh infections||Bengaluru: The city on Sunday witnessed a sharp decline in its daily Covid-19 infections, recording 8,344 cases in the last 24 hours.Though Bengaluru has seen a decline in daily case count for almost a week now, the numbers released on Sunday show the sharpest decline in over a month. The current positivity rate is around 36.89%, according to the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP, the city’s civic body)Bengaluru had first breached the five-figure mark on April 17 and since then has witnessed a surge in infections, making it as the most impacted region in the country.However, despite the dip, the city continues to see a high fatality rate as 143 more patients succumbed to the virus, according to the daily bulletin of the state health department.Authorities in the IT capital are not letting its guard down this time. The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) on Sunday said that it has set up 32 triage centres in eight zones of the city.“At the Physical Triage Centres (PTC) a team of doctors will be working 24 hours to provide immediate medical attention to Covid-infected people. PTCs have oxygenated beds and are equipped with all primary health care facilities. Patients with low symptoms are also treated and stabilisation care is provided to patients. 3 doctors and 3 nurses will be working at the Triage Centre 24 hours a day. Pulse oxymeter, thermal scan, necessary drugs will be stocked to monitor the health status of the infected. The patients are also provided with medical kits on the spot,” the BBMP said in a statement on Sunday.The BBMP said that 283 Covid-19 patients were triaged until Saturday and 260 patients have been triaged in 26 centres till 6 am on Sunday.“A total of 991 people, including those admitted through Central Hospital Bed Management System and those who come directly, are receiving treatment. 1,495 beds are available for treatment,” the BBMP said.Officials and experts had earlier predicted that the curve in Bengaluru was likely to flatten by the end of May.However, despite the dip in cases, Bengaluru continues to remain the worst affected city in the country and Karnataka, the most impacted.Karnataka breached the 600,000 active caseload mark on Saturday after it recorded 31,531 new infections with a positivity rate of 27.84%. In all there were 403 fatalities while double-digit deaths were recorded in Ballari, Hassan, Haveri, Koppal, Mandya, Shivamogga, Tumakuru and Kalauburagi, according to government data.Covid cases in other districts like Tumakuru, Chitradurga, Chikmagaluru among other places have also seen a sharp spike.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bluru-records-a-sharp-dip-in-cases-with-8k-fresh-infections-101621192510058.html
17-05-2021||India||4 dead as Cyclone Tauktae hits K’taka||According to a statement by disaster management authorities, the cyclone is likely to intensify over the next 24 hours and also likely to move north-northwestwards and reach Gujarat coast in the evening hours of 17th & cross Gujarat coast between Porbandar & Mahuva (Bhavnagar district) around May 18 early morning.Of the four deaths reported so far, one each are from Uttara Kannada, Udupi, Chikkamagaluru and Shivamogga, officials said.Around three persons are missing and nine more are stuck on tug boats.According to New Mangaluru Port Trust and Mangalore Refinery and Petrochemicals Limited (MRPL) , the tug boats--Alliance and Coromandel--were supposed to return on the night of May 14. Out of the eight people on the Tug Alliance, three have reached the shore and are undergoing treatment in a hospital in Udupi, according to disaster management authorities. On Saturday and Sunday, two bodies were recovered while three are missing, the authorities said. In Tug Coromandel, nine people are stuck on the boat as the rescue operations have been hampered due to heavy winds.The authorities are trying to determine why these tug boats did not return to shore despite warnings on May 13 and have sought a report from New Mangaluru Port Trust and MRPL.A Naval chopper from Goa is likely to take part in rescue operations, according to disaster management authorities. The cyclone has caused widespread damage across Karnataka and Kerala.According to the preliminary loss, damage and relief measures, as of 5 pm on Sunday, there were at least four deaths due to the cyclone and 216 homes were damaged. Around 98 villages in 20 talukas or administrative units, have been damaged. Among the 98 villages affected, a maximum of 31 are from Uttara Kannada district. According to the state disaster management authority, around 491 electric poles, 27 transformers and around 3,000 lines have been damaged.The state disaster management said that 516 persons have so far been evacuated and 253 of them are in the 10 relief camps.“The rainfall is accompanied by gale wind speed reaching 70 to 80 km/hour, gusting at times up to 90 km/per along and off [the] Karnataka Coast,” the state government’s disaster management team said in a statement.The impact of the cyclone is being felt across at least six districts of Karnataka which include Udupi, Dakshina Kannada, Uttara Kannada, Shivamogga, Chikmagalur and Kodagu in the last 24 hours, according to official updates.The highest rainfall in the last 24 hours was recorded at Nada Station in Kundapura taluk in Udupi district, about 400 kms from Bengaluru. Around 15 stations across the state received over 200 mm of rainfall, said officials.Chief minister B S Yediyurappa on Sunday asked in-charge ministers of coastal districts and deputy commissioners (DCs) there to visit affected areas and carry out rescue and relief works.The chief minister’s office said on Sunday that he took stock of the situation after speaking with district authorities. “The CM has instructed that whatever emergency assistance is required from the government, they (district administration) can get in touch with the ministers in-charge or call him directly,” the statement from the CM’s office added.According to a tweet in the evening by the CMO, the chief minister once again spoke to three DCs and the Chief Secretary in the evening and directed the Dakshina Kannada DC to take necessary measures to rescue the crew of a tug boat that is caught in the sea.He also directed the chief secretary to stay in touch with the Centre for the rescue of crew, and make all the necessary arrangements, including chopper if required.Cyclone Tauktae will hit the coastal areas of Goa by late afternoon as it is very likely to keep moving in the north northwest direction, said the India Meteorological DepartmentIt is very likely to move north-north westwards and reach Gujarat coast in the evening hours of May 17 and cross Gujarat coast between Porbandar and Mahuva (Bhavnagar district) around May 18 early morning, the IMD said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4-dead-as-cyclone-tauktae-hits-ktaka-101621192447576.html
17-05-2021||India||K’taka govt draws plan to tackle Covid spike in rural areas||The Karnataka government on Sunday proposed to do away with home isolation of asymptomatic Covid-19 persons and house them in Covid-19 care centres in all districts, as rural areas witness a shape spike in Covid-19 cases. The strategy helped the state government tackle the pandemic, albeit temporarily, last year.“Suppose the cases are very less here (Bengaluru), we can move our oxygen concentrators to other districts. Whatever can be moved will be moved. If the bed situation (shortage) happens, then we have to shift patients only,” the official said, requesting not to be named. However, the official clarified that this was only a theoretical suggestion as the infrastructure in these rural areas were being strengthened.There were 963 new infections in Chikmagaluru, 453 in Gadag, 617 in Koppal, 464 in Raichur, 643 in Shivamogga, according to the bulletin on Sunday.A senior government official said that any resources that can be moved will be moved to these districts from Bengaluru. The move comes as part of the state government’s preparation for the shift of the surge towards rural areas, where healthcare infrastructure is far more inadequate when compared to Bengaluru. This would mean creating additional infrastructure in a state which is centered around its capital with most of its income and expenditure on Bengaluru, leaving little for the other districts.“From 1,970 oxygenated beds, we have increased it to 24,000 oxygenated beds across the state. Half the beds in taluka hospitals are oxygenated and in three months time all these units will have oxygen generation units,” the first official mentioned above added.“Already we have established 15 Covid-19 care centres with 1200 beds. The capacity can be increased to around 1800. We are trying to shift people from home isolation including those who are not complying with the provision,” said MR Ravi, the deputy commissioner for Chamarajanagar district, about 175 kms from Bengaluru. Apart from the 24 people who died on May 2, another 62 patients died at the hospital between May 4 and May 10 – at least 36 of whom were admitted at the hospital on May 2 night, when the oxygen supply was disrupted for several hours, Hindustan Times reported on Saturday.Basavaraj Bommai, Karnataka’s minister for home, law and parliamentary affairs too has converted his home in Shiggaon, Haveri district as a 50-bed Covid-19 care centre to help increase capacities in the backward district. The district recorded 184 cases on Sunday.Karnataka continues to grapple with supplies of oxygen, life-saving medication, hospital beds and even space in crematoriums,However, the situation in Bengaluru is still grim and shifting of resources at the moment may appear bleak since it continues to record an average of around 15,000 cases per day, which may be lower than its own peak, but still far higher than all the other districts of the state put together.Bengaluru has seen a sharp decline in cases over the last week or so as it reported 8,344 new infections, giving some signs of letting up after being firmly in the grip of the pandemic since the beginning of March this year. The city’s positivity rate had nearly touched 40% between April 30 and May 6, according to data from the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP, the city’s civic body). Officials said that places like Bidar, Kalaburagi and Mysuru among others will also see a decline as they peaked earlier. Bengaluru accounted for 143 fatalities n 24 hours on Sunday, while all other districts have seen a rise in deaths, data shows, indicating how the Covid-19’s second wave was claiming more lives, largely due to inadequate healthcare and crumbling infrastructure. With 600147 active cases on Sunday, Karnataka has highest case load in the country, according to data.Karnataka recorded 31, 531 new infections in the 24 hours on Saturday with a positivity rate of 27.84%. The state recorded 403 fatalities, according to the daily bulletin of the state health department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ktaka-govt-draws-plan-to-tackle-covid-spike-in-rural-areas-101621192327660.html
17-05-2021||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||We are not talking enough about variants — at least not enough of the right kind of talk.Sure, the government was perturbed enough by repeated references to the B.1.617.1 and .2 mutations of the SARS-Cov-2 virus as the Indian variants (everyone, including various government departments had no problems with referring to a prior mutation as the UK variant) to put out a statement that effectively beseeched everyone not to refer to them as such. But no one knows for sure whether these variants are responsible for the surging second wave of the coronavirus disease that India saw through March and April because there hasn’t been adequate sequencing of the viral genome. More aggressive sequencing, especially in hotspots such as Delhi and Bengaluru could have shed light on this, and added to our understanding of the current trajectory of the pandemic in India — vital in managing both the present and the future.In the absence of this, what we do have are uploads from India to the GISAID database. There’s no way of knowing whether this is a representative sample, but B.1.617.2 accounted for 46% of sequences from India uploaded to the database between March 1 and April 30; and B.1.617.1 another 19%. That means two of three of the genomes uploaded on the database were of the variants. It stands to reason that they have become the dominant strains of the virus in India.It isn’t clear how this data can be compared with that mentioned by the head of India’s National Centre for Disease Control who said recently that genome sequencing data from INSACOG (the Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genomic Consortia; a grouping of 10 laboratories) showed that of the 18,053 samples sequenced since December, 3,532 were so-called variants of concern.Adding to what we know is yet-to-be-peer-reviewed research by scientists from India and the UK, including those at INSACOG, the COG-UK consortium, NCDC, Cambridge University and the CSIR Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology. The research notes that of 33 infections of vaccinated healthcare workers in a hospital, the majority were of B.1.617.2, although none of these was a severe infection. Importantly, and this aspect merits repetition and highlighting, the authors argue that the family of B.1.617 variants may have “a modest ability” to be resistant to antibodies caused by infections of the original virus Wuhan-1 D614G. Their hypothesis is that 20-50% of the Indian population (based on various sero- or antibody-surveys) was infected with that original strain and had antibodies, but that because the new variants were resistant to these antibodies, this may have “likely contributed to an epidemic wave” in the country.That the emergence of these variants coincided with the complete easing of restrictions on movement and activities across India, a collective lowering of the guard, and several super-spreader events did not help. Nor did the country’s slow pace of vaccination. To date, just around 140 million Indians have received at least one dose of the vaccine. That translates into 15% of the eligible population.The researchers also point out that while the variants were resistant to antibodies (created either naturally or through vaccination) to some extent, the “progression to severe disease and deaths” was low in the case of anyone with any prior protection. They conclude that “extensive vaccination will likely protect against moderate to severe disease and will reduce transmission.”Interestingly, although there is no data to bear this out, some experts are of the opinion that maintaining the gap between the first shot and the second (or booster) shot of the Astra/Zeneca-Oxford vaccine (sold as Covishield in India) to eight weeks could help combat the variants. The UK, which initially increased the gap to 12 weeks based on research that showed the vaccine’s efficacy increasing after that period (Spain has extended it to 16 weeks based on the same logic), has now reduced the gap to 8 weeks to manage a mini-surge in infections caused by the variants. Interestingly, the UK decision came around the same time as India’s to increase the gap to between 12 and 16 weeks (from the previous 6-8 weeks). Then, India’s challenge, given the supply-crunch in vaccines is to vaccinate as many people as possible and increasing the gap between doses of the most widely used vaccine in the country is a good way to do that.In the UK, 69% of those eligible for vaccines have received at least one shot and 38%, both.In India, 15% have received at least one dose and 4.4%, both.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-what-you-need-to-know-101621191539832.html
17-05-2021||India||Oxygen, vaccine shortage key topics in Modi’s Covid meet with CMs||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday spoke to chief ministers of Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh, Uttar Pradesh and Puducherry to understand the Covid-19 situation in the states and Union Territory.While Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot urged the Prime Minister to set up oxygen plants in every district, his Chhattisgarh counterpart Bhupesh Baghel sought enough vaccines for the state.In his interaction, Gehlot asked Modi to increase the oxygen allocation for his state and to set up Defense Research and Development Organisation (DRDO)’s oxygen plants in every district.Gehlot later tweeted that the Prime Minister had assured to resolve the issues soon and suggested that he have a word with railway minister Piyush Goyal. The interaction with Goyal also took place, he said.“There is hope that the Centre will soon increase the oxygen allocation to the state,” Gehlot tweeted.Baghel, on the other hand, not only asked for more vaccines but also asked the Prime Minister to allow oxygen to be used for industrial purposes after all medical needs are met.“The availability of oxygen is sufficient and accordingly after providing 80 percent oxygen to the hospitals, the remaining 20 percent oxygen can be provided to the industries, so that such units can start their activities,” he told Modi.Modi also spoke to Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath who informed the Prime Minister that the positivity rate in his state was declining and that the recovery rate was on the rise.UP government officials said Adityanath also briefed the Prime Minister on the vaccination drive in the state. The state, the chief minister told Modi, was already vaccinating people above the age of 18 in 18 districts and five more are set to be added to the list. Adityanath also spoke about how his state has been conducting an oxygen audit, a government official said.“Covid management is progressing well in UP under the guidance of Prime Minister,” Adityanath tweeted after the meeting.The Prime Minister also spoke to the newly-elected Puducherry chief minister N Rangaswamy and discussed the Covid-19 situation in the Union Territory.Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh and Uttar Pradesh are among the ten states that cumulatively account for 74.69 per cent of India’s total active cases, according to the Union Health Ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/oxygen-vaccine-shortage-key-topics-in-modi-s-covid-meet-with-cms-101621191547583.html
17-05-2021||India||Tirumala temple stays open amid Covid-19 curbs||The YS Jagan Mohan Reddy government in Andhra Pradesh has imposed a partial lockdown for 18 hours a day to prevent the spread of coronavirus in the state, but the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams which manages the famous temple of Lord Venkateshwara at Tirumala in Chittoor district, continues to remain open for pilgrims.Though TTD suspended “Sarva Darshanam” (free darshan of the deity) for pilgrims with effect from April 12 in view of the surge in Covid-19 cases, it has been allowing darshan for pilgrims who purchase “special darshan tickets” for ₹300 apiece.Last year, TTD, for the first time ever, shut down the Tirumala temple for pilgrims due to outbreak of Covid-19. The shutdown of the temple which began on March 19, 2020, continued up to June 8. The daily rituals for the presiding deity, however, continued with a limited number of priests. The temple reopened for pilgrims on June 9.From June last year, TTD restricted the number of pilgrims visiting the temple for free darshan because of stringent Covid-19 restrictions. Initially, it used to issue only 3,000-4,000 Sarva Darshanam tokens every day, as against the average footfall of 65,000-70,000 pilgrims a day before the pandemic .Gradually, it increased the number of tokens to 22,000 during weekdays and around 25,000 during the weekends in March this year, but then, the second wave struck. “In April, when the second wave of Covid-19 struck the state, the number of tokens was restricted to an average of 15,000-20,000 a day,” a TTD spokesman said on condition of anonymity.Despite the severity of the second wave of Covid-19, TTD, for its own reasons, did not close down the temple , notwithstanding the partial lockdown being implemented by the state government, which also suspended bus services to Tirumala.“Last year, there was a nationwide lockdown and the state, too, had to follow it strictly. Hence, the temple was forced to close down. This time, there are no such restrictions. The state government, too, has not issued any guidelines on the closure of temples in the state,” the TTD spokesman said.He said only those pilgrims who were coming to Tirumala in their own vehicles were being allowed for darshan. “Moreover, we have been following stringent Covid-19 rules, including the mandatory negative RT-PCR report, wearing of masks and maintenance of social distance. There have been no cases of Covid-19 in pilgrims on Tirumala,” the spokesman said.However, the fear of Covid-19 and strict enforcement of lockdown rules by the police in the last one week led to the drastic fall in the number of pilgrims many of whom had booked their special darshan tickets online well in advance.According to TTD authorities, only 71,000 pilgrims had a darshan of Lord Venkateshwara between May 1 and 12. This is just a day’s footfall from the pre-pandemic period. “On Wednesday, only 2,262 pilgrims visited the temple, the lowest footfall of in the history of Tirumala,” the TTD spokesman said.TTD announced that those who had booked special darshan tickets but could not visit Tirumala due to pandemic between April 11 and May 31, can change their darshan date to anytime within the next year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tirumala-temple-stays-open-amid-curbs-101621191487518.html
17-05-2021||India||May consider lockdown if Covid cases continue to rise: Assam CM Himanta||Himanta Biswa Sarma took charge as Assam’s 15th chief minister on May 10, capping a successful election campaign for the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). With Covid cases and deaths surging in the state, the 52-year-old, who was the health minister in the previous Sarbananda Sonowal government, has assumed office at a crucial time. Since taking oath, Sarma has been busy boosting the health sector and taking stringent measures to control the spread of the pandemic. In an interview with HT, he talks in detail about the crisis, the state’s finances, the NRC and other issues that the new government faces. Edited excerpts:Q: You have mentioned that Covid is the biggest challenge facing the new government and have initiated some measures to control the pandemic. What is your assessment of the situation in Assam now and where is the state headed?A: The second wave of Covid is more infectious and lethal. Therefore, we need to be more proactive and sincere in our efforts. We have imposed curfew from 12pm to 5am in urban areas and micro-containment zones have been started. There won’t be home isolation for those above 50 who don’t have facilities for management of the disease in their houses. There’s special emphasis on care of patients during holidays and at night, in hospitals. We have ensured oxygen supply is not compromised, started setting up new ICU units and kept adequate stock of life-saving medicines. Within the last week since our government was formed, we have noticed some slowdown in Covid cases. In Kamrup (Metropolitan), cases have come down from 1,600 daily to around 1,000. Though nothing can be said conclusively, we may witness some kind of stabilisation in the coming days. We will work harder and give our best.Q: Most states have announced a lockdown. Why has Assam decided against it till now? And why are 200 of the 1,000 ventilators given to the state under the PM Cares initiative not used till now?A: We haven’t imposed a total lockdown as we are also concerned about the livelihoods of people. We are trying to create a mid-way between economic activity and Covid control. If that process fails and Covid cases continue to rise, we might have to consider a total lockdown. Regarding the ventilators, we got them at a time when the state had very few daily Covid cases. Since now we are expanding our Covid facilities, we will be utilising all the ventilators from the PM Cares initiative in the next 10-15 days.Q: The status of Assam’s financial health is a cause of concern. You had mentioned in your budget speech that in the previous financial year, there was poor growth in the first two quarters due to Covid. We are faced with a similar situation now. How do you think it will affect Assam?A: The initial period of the last year was difficult, but in the last quarter we recorded 14% growth in revenue collection. We spent ₹82,000 crore of our budget last year, which was the highest expenditure of allocation achieved till now. This year, we are of the opinion that we will be able to contain Covid and maintain our growth story. As of now, our cash flow is stable, and we are getting support from the Centre. I am confident we will be able to tide over any situation.Q: As you had handled both health and finance portfolios in the previous government, most people in Assam assumed you would keep them with yourself this time as well. But you chose to give them to others. Why?A: I have handled many portfolios in the state since 2001. My own opinion is that chief ministers should have few ministries so that my time can be distributed in supervising and anchoring various schemes of all departments. I have consciously decided that I will devote my time and energy in all departments equally and that’s why I have decided to leave finance and health ministries. I have handed the health ministry to cabinet colleague Keshab Mahanta, but I am taking full interest on all health issues during the pandemic. The finance ministry has been given to Ajanta Neog. She was in the Tarun Gogoi cabinet for almost 15 years and is an experienced minister. I have my confidence that she will be able to do justice to her new role. We already have a robust system in both these ministries, and it shouldn’t be tough for both ministers to handle them.Q: You have mentioned that you will be seeking re-verification of the National Register of Citizens (NRC). How do you plan to take it forward?A: The state coordinator for the NRC has already filed an application in Supreme Court seeking re-verification of the list as it has glaring anomalies. We will wait for the SC to examine our request. If we get the order in our favour, we will revisit the NRC and if it SC decides against our request, we have to agree with the original document.Q: The issue of granting scheduled tribe (ST) status to six communities is pending. You have indicated that there are some leads in this issue. What are they and how do you plan to execute them?A: In the previous government, I headed a committee to prepare modalities for enlisting the six communities is ST. The Bill in this regard is pending in Rajya Sabha. Earlier, we were able to bring both sets of communities, those who are already enjoying ST status and the six others that are seeking the same, to the discussion table. We were able to arrive at consensus on some points. We need to ensure that while granting ST status to the six communities, the rights and privileges of those who are already ST are not compromised. We need a fine balancing act. There will be more discussions on this, and we are confident of a positive outcome.Q: Since you assumed charge of the home department, we have already witnessed transfers of many senior police officers. Can we expect a similar move in the bureaucracy?A: We have issued an order on Sunday for transfers of some senior district-level officers. The idea is to create a team for the next five years, which will be able to execute the new government’s initiatives efficiently.Q: You took oath with 13 others ministers. But there are some ministries that are yet to be allocated and 4-5 other ministers who can be accommodated in your cabinet. When can we expect a cabinet expansion?A: We will be expanding the ministry, but that’s not going to happen before the budget session, which will be in July.Q: As the new chief minister, what would be your appeal and assurance to the state’s residents in this time of crisis?A: I would like to tell the people that we are seeing some positive signs in the past one week and noticed that the spread of the virus has been arrested, at least temporarily. If we maintain discipline and continue with Covid-appropriate behaviour, Assam will be able to defeat the pandemic like we did during the first wave. My request to the people would be that sometimes we might need to take some harsh decisions, but these are needed for the good of the entire society. I urge them to cooperate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/may-consider-lockdown-if-covid-cases-continue-to-rise-himanta-101621191488092.html
17-05-2021||India||Prevent immersion of bodies in rivers: Centre||Following reports of scores of dead bodies found floating on Ganga and its tributaries in wake of the second coronavirus pandemic wave, the Centre has directed states to prevent dumping of bodies in the river and focus on their safe disposal, and ordered the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) to carry out an overall monitoring and surveillance of water quality.“Namami Gange directs states to prevent dumping of dead bodies in the Ganga and focus on their safe disposal and providing support for ensuring dignified cremation,” the Jal Shakti Ministry said in a statement issued on Sunday.Over the past week, nearly 800 bodies have been fished out of the Ganga in Uttar Pradesh’s Ghazipur and Ballia districts, and Bihar’s Buxar district. Local administration suspect the bodies could belong to Covid patients but testing is difficult because the corpses are decomposedOn Saturday, officials from the Jal Shakti ministry; the National Mission for Clean Ganga; Central Pollution Control Board held a review meeting with the representatives of Uttar Pradesh and Bihar governments where it was decided that state pollution control boards will be roped in to keep a check on the river water quality while the CPCB will monitor the overall surveillance. States have also been urged to prevent sand burials along the river.“We may approach appropriate laboratories for water sampling like the national institute of virology (NIV) to understand what are the chances of the viral infection spreading through water. Other parameters will also be studied,” said a senior official from Central Pollution Control Board on condition of anonymity.“The situation is being followed up with several districts like Unnao, Kanpur rural, Ghazipur, Balia and Buxar, Saran in Bihar. However, some cases have also been reported from other districts. The state missions should follow up action taken with all districts,” said Rajiv Ranjan Mishra, Director General, National Mission for Clean Ganga, who was present at the meeting.Officials representing the Uttar Pradesh government -- Rajnish Dubey, Addl Chief Secretary, Urban Development and Anurag Shrivastava, Principal Secretary, Jal Shakti, UP and Project Director, State Ganga Mission said that district magistrates have intensified patrolling at the ghats to prevent dumping of dead bodies in Ganga. Around 13 additional crematoria, under Namami Gange, have been made available for cremations and the government is ensuring financial support to the needy for safe cremation as per Covid-19 protocol, an official added. The state Panchayati Raj Department has also announced financial support of ₹5000 for cremations in rural areas.Anand Kishore, Principal Secretary, Urban Development and Project Director, State Ganga Mission said that the state government will bear the cost of cremations and burials of Covid-19 patients. Patrolling has also been intensified in Buxar and Saran (Chhapra) areas, an official added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/prevent-immersion-of-bodies-in-rivers-centre-101621191427625.html
17-05-2021||India||Covid-19 case trajectory shows second wave is ebbing||While the second wave of the Covid-19 outbreak continued to burden India’s health care system, with the total number of confirmed infections in the country closing in on 25 million on Sunday, the trajectory of new infections for the entire country appeared to show signs of receding from a peak over the past week, according to data.For the first time since the start of the second wave, the number of active cases in the country began inching down – a crucial development as the onslaught of the second wave was marked by a soaring number of active cases, which resulted in shortages of vital supplies such as medical oxygen, life-saving drugs, hospital beds and ambulance services.A total of 281,911 new cases were reported on Sunday, the lowest in 27 days, taking the total number of infections in the country since the start of the outbreak to 24,964,718, according to HT’s Covid-19 dashboard.In the past week, there have been 328,947 new infections every day across the country on average; a week ago, this number was 391,819, the highest ever recorded and what appeared to be the peak of the second wave. This means that the rate of new infections reduced by 16% in the past seven days – the first time such a significant contraction of the outbreak has been reported in the country since February. At its peak, the week-on-week change in seven-day average of new infections was rising at more than 70% for the week ending April 11.The seven-day average of new cases, which denotes the country’s Covid-19 case curve, has now fallen for seven straight days for the first time since early February, underlining what appeared to be a clear reversal of trend and not just a few days of dropping cases. And this trend has taken place without daily tests going down – the seven-day average of samples tested has gone up 3.6% from last Sunday.Also Read | Delhi, Punjab looking forward to Sputnik V amid Covid-19 vaccine shortageThese findings were echoed in the epidemiological estimates by the University of Michigan’s Centre for Precision Health Data Science, which showed that India’s overall effective reproduction number (Rt) has dropped to 0.90. An Rt of more than 1 means an outbreak is expanding in a region, while that below 1 denotes a contraction.Delhi has seen the largest drop in the rate of new infections in the past week – the seven-day average of daily cases dropped 45% in the last week, from 18,374 to 10,043. In other words, cases in Delhi dropped more than three times the national average.In Uttar Pradesh, the seven-day average of new cases went down 39% in the last week, while this number dropped 36% in Chhattisgarh and Bihar, and 32% in Telangana. These were followed by Jharkhand (30% drop in average daily cases), Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra (27% and 25% contraction).On May 12, HT reported that at least six regions in the country – Delhi, Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh, Telangana and Uttar Pradesh – had started reporting a steady drop in infections in the past few weeks, with another three – Bihar, Gujarat and Jharkhand – exhibiting early signs of a plateau.This trend, however, is not uniform across the country. While new infections are dropping in a majority of the country, a handful of regions, particularly in the country’s south, east and northeast, continue to defy the larger trend. The seven-day average of cases is still increasing through northeast the most – in Tripura, the number has risen the most in the country (65%), followed by 58% in Meghalaya and 37% in Manipur.States that held elections over the last two months are among the regions that are outliers. Tamil Nadu, for instance, is the state with the fastest rising outbreaks among India’s most populous regions – the seven-day average of new infections went up 26% in the past month (from 24735 new cases a day a week ago to 31137 for the week ending this Sunday). In Puducherry, the rate of new cases has gone up 24%, while it has gone up 9% in Assam and 8% in West Bengal in the past week. Kerala is the only state with recent elections where the outbreak has shrunk – though it has done so marginally, with a 3% drop in new infections.An analysis by HT on May 3 showed that in the four states and one Union territory that went to the polls, Covid-19 cases started rising much later than the rest of the country, but a steeper curve in these regions pushed them ahead in terms of new cases per capita.The number of active cases, meanwhile, has also starting decreasing – albeit slowly. Till last Sunday (May 9), there were a total of 3,750,895 active cases in the country, the highest this number has ever touched. However, since then, with cases dropping and recoveries picking up pace, the number of active cases has also started slowly inching down. As of Sunday night, the number of active cases in the country dropped to 3,522,840. On Sunday, active cases reduced by over 100,000, according to HT’s Covid-19 dashboard.Tracking the number of active cases – those still under treatment – in any region is crucial because these have a direct bearing on the pressure that the health care system is facing. Currently, there are still more than 3.5 times as many active cases in the country than there were during the peak of the first wave of the outbreak. This has caused massive shortages of supplies vital for the fight against the disease.While regions such as Delhi and Maharashtra appear to have seen off the worst of these shortages (with active cases dropping recently), other regions such as Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Assam, Karnataka and the northeast states (where cases are still rising) now face the danger of such shortages in the near future.Experts said that while it is a good sign that cases are dropping across the country, they said it was too early to say they will remain down. “Some of the states that are yet to peak right now are among the most populous regions in the country. Add to that, despite our strides in testing infrastructure, we still don’t have a very clear idea of what is happening in rural parts of the country... In a situation like this, if cases are rising there, or dropping, we still don’t have a clear picture. A clear picture can only be established when we have true data, both in terms of cases and deaths, from these regions,” said Dr Lalit Kant, former head of epidemiology at the Indian Council of Medical Research.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-case-trajectory-shows-second-wave-is-ebbing-101621191044477.html
17-05-2021||India||500 nurses from Kerala duped, stranded in UAE||At least 500 nurses from Kerala who were promised high salary and other perks are stranded in the United Arab Emirates (UAE) after being allegedly duped by recruiting agents. Some stranded nurses have written to chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan. However, his office said it had not received any such complaint.One of them, Reen Rajan (30), said she applied for the job after she came across an advertisement in leading newspapers that UAE was recruiting nurses on urgent basis in view of the pandemic situation and Keralites will be given preference. “I had to cough up ₹2.30 lakh to the agent and later she was granted a visiting visa,” said Rajan, who spoke over the phone to HT. She said, the agent told her that work visa will be granted once they reach UAE. We are herded in dingy rooms for about a month. Some of them have returned after they came to know they were cheated. We were recruited by a Kochi-based agency ‘Take Off ’ two months back. Now these agents are saying we can work in care homes and massage parlours,” said Rajan, who quit her job with a private hospital in Kollam to take up the new assignment.She said that she sent a letter to chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan narrating her plight and also took up the issue with MLA K B Ganesh Kumar. When contacted, the CM’s office said they are yet to know about their complaint. Police are yet to register a complaint.Her brother Rijo Rajan, who is working in Kollam said, after he came to know about his sister’s plight he made inquiries about the agency and came to know that its proprietor Fizroze Khan was allegedly involved in another case of cheating and was in jail for some time. He said after his release he closed his agency “Keydot” and started a new one “Take Off” to cheat gullible aspirants. Most of the stranded said they paid between ₹2-4 lakh to get the visa.“Some of us have taken a loan to pay up. They know our precarious financial situation and so they are forcing us to do odd jobs. We were promised ₹1 lakh pay package and accommodation and they showed us some videos of nurses recruited by them. We were asked not to disclose it to anyone as recruitment of nurses was only permitted through government- approved agencies,” said another stranded nurse Susan Saji.Some of them said they applied after they were told that there were enough vacancies as hospitals need nurses urgently due to the pandemic situation.To contain the exploitation of such job aspirants, earlier, both union and state governments had constituted special bodies to recruit nurses. In Kerala, nurses are recruited through the Overseas Development and Employment Promotion Consultants Ltd and Non-Residents Keralites Affairs. Despite such approved agencies many approach such dubious agents and get cheated.Last year, Kerala police had busted a gang that recruited models for middle-east countries and later forced them to become escorts and gold carriers. Once they land up in foreign countries, these gang members seize their passport and other documents and they are forced to toe their diktats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/500-nurses-from-kerala-duped-stranded-in-uae-101621191368903.html
17-05-2021||India||Delhi, Goa have most Covid deaths per 100k: Govt data||Delhi and Goa have the highest Covid deaths per one lakh population (DPL) in the country whereas Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Odisha have lower rates, government data shows.These inferences are based on the health ministry’s Covid and vaccination data for May 15 and population projections for 2021 by the Census Commissioner of India and come at the time when some state governments are being accused of hiding actual death figures.“One thing clear from the data analysis is that some states such as Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh are hiding death numbers in a big way,” said James Wilson, a data analyst and member of the advisory committee of the Kerala Electricity Board, who has been analysing the health ministry’s Covid data for the past year.“There cannot be such a huge variation in death numbers unless some states are not transparent about reporting Covid deaths.”According to health ministry data, Goa has the highest death rate per one lakh population of 131.88 with 2,056 deaths reported. About one-fourth of these deaths took place during the second Covid wave that started in March 2020. On Goa’s high death per population rate, chief minister Pramod Sawant said it was on account of the state’s “complete transparency” in testing and death records.”In Goa we make sure that every Covid death is counted. Even if a person dies without being tested we conduct his test post-mortem and if he is Covid positive we include that in the figures,” he said.After Goa, Delhi has second highest DPL of 101 followed by Uttarakhand’s 40.57. Delhi government officials did not comment on the findings despite repeated requests for a response. Uttarakhand chief secretary Om Prakash said the state was transparent in reporting Covid cases and deaths even though several deaths of outsiders during the Mahakumbh were recorded in the state figures.Gujarat, which has been repeatedly accused of hiding Covid deaths, has a much lower DPL of 12.95. Divya Bhaskar, a Gujarati daily newspaper, had on Friday reported that the state government issued 1.21 lakh death certificates between March 1 and May 10 this year, 61,000 more than in the same period last year. Although the Gujarat government did not deny the figures, junior home minister Pratapsinh Jadeja said it was “mischievous” to corelate death certificates with Covid and accused the newspaper of trying to create a sensation.Gujarat’s neighbouring state of Maharashtra, which reported high Covid cases since March, had a DPL of almost 70, the highest among large population states. Karnataka has a DPL of 32, Chhattisgarh 39.30, Punjab 38.54, Andhra Pradesh 17.56 and Tamil Nadu 22.72. On the lower side are Bihar with 3.04, Telangana with 7.46 and Odisha with 5.21. However, Bihar’s neighbouring state Jharkhand’s figure is 11.52 and West Bengal’s 13.39.Uttar Pradesh has a DPL of 7.47, with 4,623 total Covid deaths reported so far, even as there have been reports of over 800 dead bodies found buried on the banks of the Ganga river in Kanpur, Gazipur and Unnao districts. The UP government has refuted the charge of hiding data, saying Covid deaths were being reported as per the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) guidelines that prohibit recording of Covid deaths of people with co-morbidities. “We are strictly following ICMR guidelines and the data shows how effective our Covid management was,” said a UP government official.Madhya Pradesh, where burials and cremations as per Covid protocols in major cities such as Indore, Bhopal and Jabalpur were almost double of the Covid deaths reported, had a DPL of 8.18 with 6,913 total deaths reported. In Bhopal, close to 1,400 people were cremated with Covid protocols since April 1 even as official Covid deaths were only 425, said Bhopal-based social activist Seema Kurup, claiming the situation was similar in Indore and Jabalpur. State health minister Prabhuram Chaudhary said, “We did a door-to-door survey to identify Covid positive cases and our timely action is the main reason behind low death rate.”However, a recent report by the Seattle-based Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation (IHME) at the University of Washington in Seattle estimated that actual Covid deaths in India as of May 6 may be 0.654 million (6.54 lakh), almost three times of the official count of 0.221 million (2.21 lakh). The IHME, which comes out with an annual Global Burden of Disease study, has been using an updated methodology to project Covid deaths in various countries in the world. Using the methodology to assess “excess deaths” , the IHME estimates that nearly seven million people have died worldwide as direct victims of the virus. This is about double the number of casualties reported on the basis of official or verifiable sources.Civil society experts have accused states of underreporting deaths, especially from Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Telangana and Gujarat. “There is a huge possibility of underreporting of Covid deaths, especially from rural areas, where there are not enough facilities for RTPCR tests. When RTPCR is not needed for admission in a Covid ward, how it could be a requirement for recording deaths. Any cremation or burial with Covid protocol should be considered a Covid death. This would provide realistic Covid death figures,” said Karnal-based civil rights activist Ramji Lal.(With inputs from state bureaus)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-goa-have-most-covid-deaths-per-100k-govt-data-101621191368300.html
17-05-2021||India||Covid-19 vaccination drive moves at a slow pace in populous states||Less than 2% of Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Bihar and Jharkhand’s population -- the states account for one-third of the country’s people -- has been fully vaccinated, even as several smaller states such as Tripura, Sikkim and Arunachal Pradesh have done much better, health ministry data shows.According to the health ministry, 2.5 % of India’s people have got both doses of vaccination while 9.3% have got a single jab as of May 16, 121 days after the drive started on January 16.Till May 16, the health ministry’s data showed, 98.8 million people have got a single dose and 41.7 million both doses of the Covid vaccine.“This data shows the enormous task ahead for us is to completely vaccinate 97% of the remaining population. We still need 2.4 billion doses to vaccinate the unvaccinated,” said Jamesh Wilson, a Kerala-based independent researcher, who juxtaposed the vaccination data with projected population figures for states for the year 2021.Also Read | Covid-19 vaccine: How Centre is scaling up Covaxin productionSeveral state governments had slowed down vaccination since the last week of April due to short supply of vaccines from the two Indian manufacturers – Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech – and as many as 12 states have or are in the process of floating global tenders for vaccines. However, officials in most states don’t expect to get vaccines from international manufacturers in the next three to four months.Some states such as Maharashtra, Karnataka and Rajasthan had to suspend vaccination of the 18-44 age group as enough vaccine were not available. States such as Punjab and Andhra Pradesh want the Centre to procure all vaccines and distribute them to the state rather than individual states trying to buying them from vaccine manufacturers in India and abroad.Niti Aayog member health VK Paul on Sunday told news agency PTI that the government plans to ramp up Covaxin’s per month production from the present 15 million doses to 100 million. The ministry of science and technology had earlier said Bharat Biotech will start manufacturing 10 crore doses per month by September. “Financial support is being provided as grant from GoI to the tune of approx ₹65 crore to Bharat Biotech’s new Bangalore facility which is being repurposed to increase the capacity of vaccine production,” the ministry said in a statement on Friday.The health ministry’s data showed that the progress of vaccination was abysmally low in Bihar, UP and Madhya Pradesh, which account for 32.2% of India’s population. These states combined have so far vaccinated only 1.51% of their population with both doses. Only 5.91% people in these states have been vaccinated with a single dose.Another five states --- Jharkhand, Punjab, Assam, Tamil Nadu and Telangana --- having 16% of the country’s population of India having given both doses to 2.32% of population and a single dose to 8.4% of population. “If we take the above mentioned 8 states together, they represent 48.2% of India’s population and only 1.78% of their population has got both doses. Less than 10% of the population has got a single dose,” Wilson said.Smaller population states such as Ladakh and Tripura have vaccinated more than 12% of their population with both doses and 29.05% and 23.13% of their population, respectively, with a single dose. Sikkim and Lakshadweep vaccinated 8.8% and 9.54% of their population, respectively, with both doses, the data shows.HT reported on Sunday that most of the vaccination in India has taken place in urban areas with large swathes of the hinterland yet to be brought under coverage. As per data on the Co-WIN app, doses administered in urban areas were 1.7 times of those in villages, where around 60% of the country’s population lives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vaccination-drive-moves-at-a-slow-pace-in-populous-states-101621191367566.html
17-05-2021||India||Police, farmers clash in Hry during protest over CM’s visit||The Haryana police on Sunday lathicharged and lobbed tear gas shells to disperse a group of farmers protesting chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar’s visit to Hisar to inaugurate a Covid-19 hospital. At least 20 police personnel and several farmers were injured in the clashes, officials said.Farmers blocked the Delhi-Chandigarh National Highway 44 at Bastara in Karnal, the Hisar-Chandigarh highway in Kaithal, Kurukshetra-Pehowa-Paitala, Kurukshetra-Kaithal highway, NH-44 on Ambala-Patiala border , NH-73 on Ambala-Yamunanagar highway and toll plazas in Karnal, Panipat and Shahbad, for two hours from 5pm to 7pm, forcing the authorities to divert traffic to link roads.“Why did the CM have to visit Hisar to inaugurate the hospital, he could have done it virtually,” asked Haryana Bharat Kisan Union (Charuni) president, Gurnam Singh Charuni.“The police resorted to lathicharge and used tear gas shells, besides using plastic bullets to disperse the farmers in Hisar. Many farmers received injuries,” Charuni said, alleging that despite the state restricting gatherings hundreds of people were allowed to gather for the hospital inauguration.Khattar inaugurated the newly built 500-bedded Chaudhary Devi Lal Sanjeevani COVID Hospital in Hisar and farmers were stopped before they could reach the venue, the police said.Karnal superintendent of police Ganga Ram Punia said that traffic had been diverted from the NH 44 via link roads. He said that there were no reports of violence, but the police have been deployed to deal with any law-and-order situation.Hisar police spokesperson Vikas Kumar said a group started pelting stones at policemen, which led to the confrontation in which a few people, both farmers and policemen, got injured.At least 20 police personnel, including five women, were injured during the clash with farmers in Hisar, officials said.“The miscreants broke the barricade installed on the canal bridge and threw it into the water. They also attacked DSP Abhimanyu Lohan under the Jindal overbridge. The injured cops are being treated at the civil hospital,” a police spokesperson said.Charuni said the farm leaders had called a meeting at Hisar to decide further course of action.“ We will clear the road for ambulances, military convoys, fire brigade and tankers carrying oxygen. Farmers from Ramayana toll plaza will start marching towards the office of the Hisar IG and if our grievances are not accepted, we will start a dharna outside police stations across the state,” Charuni added.BKU leader Rakesh Tikait said they had asked the Hisar IG to release 85 farmers detained by the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/police-farmers-clash-in-hry-during-protest-over-cm-s-visit-101621191128108.html
17-05-2021||India||Hub of farm stir, 5 villages declared containment zones||BATHINDA: At least five villages in Mansa district have been sealed in the past one week amid a relentless surge in Covid-19 infections and deaths, authorities said. A majority of villagers belonging to these areas are participating in the ongoing farmers’ agitation at Delhi borders, they added. On Saturday, Joga village in the district’s Bhikhi block was sealed for 10 days. The village, with a population of about 11,000 people, witnessed 10 Covid-19 deaths and 96 cases since May 1. Nangal Kalan, Khiala Kalan, Akkanwali, Phapphre Bhai Ke villages of the district have been declared containment zones since May 10. One urban pocket each in the towns of Mansa and Budladha was also declared as containment zones in the past one week. It is for the first time that villages in Mansa district have been declared containment zones after the second wave of the pandemic hit the state. An area is declared a containment zone after more than 15 cases of infections are detected. Deputy commissioner Mohinder Pal said police are strictly enforcing the containment protocol and have restricted unnecessary movement to contain the spread. “Most villagers were visiting dharna sites at very regular intervals. As they are falling sick in considerable numbers, villagers are reluctant to reveal details of their travel and places they visited. Ideally, they should have isolated themselves for five days after visiting the venue of a large gathering,” a district official said on condition of anonymity.Khiala Kalan, which currently has 34 active cases, reported two Covid-deaths in the last two weeks. On Sunday, two residents from Khiala Kalan block, including a 27-year-old man, succumbed to the virus. As many as 92 residents from the block tested positive on Sunday. With four deaths and 298 cases on Sunday, the number of active cases in the district rose to 3,299. Since May 1, the district has reported 5,164 new cases of infection and 52 Covid deaths. “House-to-house screening has begun. Healthcare teams are trying to convince villagers to follow Covid guidelines. We were able to vaccinate nearly 500 residents while a section (of the population) is hesitant to take the jabs,” Dr Hardeep Sharma, senior medical officer of Khiala Kalan public health centre, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hub-of-farm-stir-5-villages-declared-containment-zones-101621190887552.html
17-05-2021||India||CoWIN to now allow bookings for 2nd Covishield dose only after 84 days||The Centre on Sunday announced that the CoWIN platform has been configured as per new directives to provide online appointments for the second dose of Covishield after 84 days, a move that came after the Union government extended the gap between two doses of the vaccine to 12-16 weeks.The Centre, however, said that previously booked appointments for second doses of the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine will remain valid, with people getting the option to reschedule.“It is clarified that the requisite changes have now been done in the CoWIN digital portal. As a result, further online or on-site appointments will not be possible if the period after 1st dose date for a beneficiary is less than 84 days,” the Union health ministry said in a statement issued on Sunday.The Serum Institute of India (SII) locally manufacturers the Oxford-AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine under the brand name Covishield.“Additionally, already booked online appointments for 2nd dose of Covishield will remain valid and are not being cancelled by CoWIN. Further, the beneficiaries are advised to reschedule their appointments for a later date beyond the 84th day from the date of 1st dose vaccination,” it read.The statement was issued after the Covid working group — chaired by Dr NK Arora from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) — recommended the extension of the gap between the first and second doses of the Covishield vaccine to 12-16 weeks from the existing 6-8 weeks.When Covishield was approved for used in India, its two shots were supposed to be spaced out between four and six weeks.Increasing the gap between the doses will allow governments to give the first jab to more people, and is consistent with studies that suggest a longer interval may offer better efficacy.Click here for complete Covid-19 coverage“There is quality data out currently in favour of increasing the gap further for improved efficacy, when it comes to Covishield vaccine. The second dose in this case acts as a booster shot, and even the first dose offers decent protection. It is a good move by the government,” said Dr NK Mehra, immunology and immunogenetics expert, who was formerly associated with New Delhi’s All India Institute of Medical Sciences.The Union health ministry has reiterated to the states and Union Territories that the online appointments booked for the second dose of Covishield prior to this change of the interval between the two doses must be honoured.“The Union Health Ministry has advised the Sates and Union Territories that the field staff may be instructed that, if such beneficiaries do come for vaccination, the second Covishield dose must be administered and they must not be turned away. They have also been advised to undertake awareness activities to inform the beneficiaries about this change,” the health ministry statement said.Two Covid-19 vaccines that are currently being used under the nationwide Covid-19 immunisation programme are SII’s Covishield and Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin.However, the revised interval is only for the Covishield vaccine, and there is no change for the Covaxin vaccine timeline that continues to be between 4 and 6 weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cowinto-now-allow-bookings-for-2nd-covishield-dose-only-after-84-days-101621189507459.html
17-05-2021||India||Use of steroids in Covid-19 treatment: What experts have warned so far||In the treatment of Covid-19 infections, doctors have time and again warned against the misuse of steroids. AIIMS director Dr Randeep Guleria on Saturday blamed the misuse of steroids behind the rise of the cases of mucormycosis during post-Covid recovery. But this is not the first time that the overuse of steroids has been flagged.What are steroids? Steroids are to treat inflammatory conditions which may be seen in a serious Covid-19 case when the virus is replicating. But its early and wrong use leads to more complications than benefits as steroids also repress the immune system."Recovery trials showed that steroids will benefit but it's also important to know when they're given. If given early before your saturation (O2) falls, it has a harmful effect. Covid patients who got steroids early had higher mortality than those who didn't. It is of no use if steroids are given on day 1. They are useful only in moderate to severe illness when oxygen saturation is falling," Dr Guleria said earlier.Taking steroid at an early stage of the disease can further replicate the virus, experts have said. Taking high doses of steroids in mild cases, on the other hand, may lead to severe viral pneumonia. Steroids should also be avoided in the first five days of the infection.Should patients with mild symptoms take steroids at early stage?#PIBFactCheckTaking steroids during early stage of #Covid19 can further replicate the #Virus.Take a look at this #PIBFacTree and know what Dr Randeep Guleria (Director, AIIMS) has to say about this! pic.twitter.com/HMUxd66YAlChairman of Institute of Liver Transplantation and Regenerative Medicine Dr Arvinder Singh Soin said steroid is one of the components of a vicious Covid triangle, the other two being Covid and diabetes. "Worse the diabetes, more severe the Covid and more the requirement for steroids. More the steroids, the worse the diabetes becomes," he said.We have seen more cases of black fungus (mucor) in the past week than we normally treat in 2 years.Must adhere to the @ICMRDELHI guidelines on steroid usage in COVID for 5-10 days & NO MORE.Also need a robust national registry recording all such cases. @drharshvardhanIn the Union health ministry's clinical guidance for Covid-19 patients, the use of anti-inflammatory therapy has been recommended only in moderate and severe cases, when the patient is either in the ward or in the ICU and the oxygen level is dropping. The steroid therapy is recommended only for a duration of five to 10 days, not more than that.Now it has also emerged that the cases of mucormycosis, which is a fungal infection and existed before Covid-19, are increasing because of steroid misuse.Dr Suresh Kumar, medical director of LNJP hospital in New Delhi, has said overuse, misuse, and rampant use of steroids in Covid-19 patients are causing black fungus cases. "If given to patients with oxygen levels over 90, black fungus is a possible side-effect. Early diagnosis is critical. A CT scan of the face would detect this infection, after which antifungal drug amphotericin will be used for treatment," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/use-of-steroids-in-covid-19-treatment-what-experts-have-warned-so-far-101621184470534.html
17-05-2021||India||Petrol, diesel prices soar after ninth hike in 13 days||Petrol became costlier by 24 paise per litre and diesel by 27 paise a litre on Sunday as state-run retailers raised rates for the ninth time in 13 days, making the fuels costlier by ₹2.18 and ₹2.49 a litre, respectively, since May 4.Petrol prices crossed the ₹100 mark in several cities, particularly in Rajasthan, Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh on Sunday. Key cities to sell petrol over ₹100 per litre include Ratnagiri, Parbhari, Aurangabad, Indore, Bhopal, Gwalior, Jaisalmer, Ganganagar and Banswara.Among major metros, Mumbai has the highest fuel rates. While petrol is sold at ₹98.88 per litre in the financial capital of India on Sunday, diesel is sold at ₹90.40 a litre. Even as fuel rates in Delhi are the benchmark for the entire country, retail prices of the two fuels differ from place to place because of variations in state taxes and local levies.There are two key reasons for higher petrol and diesel rates – taxes on auto fuels and a spike in international oil prices. To be sure, much of the retail price is taxes. For instance, in Delhi, on May 16, central taxes accounted for 35.5% of petrol’s price, and state taxes, 23%. On diesel, central levies are over 38.2% while state taxes are about 14.6%. Through 2020, as global crude prices fell, the central government raised excise duty on fuel to shore up its finances. States too followed suit -- with revenue hit on account of the pandemic.International oil prices and the rupee-dollar exchange rate impact domestic pump prices as India imports over 80% crude oil it processes and pays in dollar. Benchmark Brent crude closed the week on Friday at $68.71 a barrel, with a gain of 2.48%. Fuel retail prices in India are aligned with their international rates of previous day. According to executives of state-run oil marketing companies, pump prices are also high because companies are recovering their past revenue losses. State-run oil marketing companies had incurred revenue losses for keeping any upward price movement of the two politically sensitive fuels under pause for 66 days since February 27 because of assembly elections in four states and one Union territory. The pump price rally in India started a day after poll results on May 4.During the 66-day pause on rate hike, state-run retailers had reduced petrol and diesel rates by 77 paise and 74 paise a litre, respectively in four small doses. But, the entire gains to the consumers were reversed in the first four consecutive rounds of rate hikes starting from May 4.HT wrote on April 28 that fuel rates would move north after the polls and their pump prices would start seeing small increments as state-run fuel retailers had been losing about ₹3 a litre on sale of the fuel because of higher international oil rates and depreciation of rupee against the dollar.The government deregulated the pricing of petrol on June 26, 2010 and diesel on October 19, 2014. Accordingly, state-run retailers are free to change pump prices every day. Public sector retailers — IOC, Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd (BPCL) and Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Ltd (HPCL) — control almost 90% of the domestic fuel retail market.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/petrol-crosses-rs-100-lt-mark-in-many-cities-following-ninth-rate-hike-in-may-101621152846744.html
17-05-2021||India||More shallow graves found on Ganga bank||Hundreds of bodies were found buried in shallow sand graves on the banks of the Ganga river in Uttar Pradesh’s Prayagraj district on Sunday, triggering panic among local residents.The graves, many of them covered with clothes or marked by bamboo sticks, were visible at Shringverpur Ghat, Arail, Jhunsi, and near Covid and non-Covid cremation ghats at Phaphamau. Some were also seen close to the Sangam area while a few others were visible from the Phaphamau Bridge, said a local resident on the condition of anonymity.Over the past week, close to 1,000 bodies were either fished out of the Ganga or found in shallow graves on river banks in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. Local administration suspect the bodies could be of Covid patients but testing is difficult because the corpses are decomposed.According to a local resident, most of the bodies found now are of people who have recently died of Covid-19 and their family members don’t have money for cremation as the price of wood has gone up.“Up to ₹22,000 was being charged for a single cremation, till the administration fixed the price at ₹4,000 per body,” said the person.“For the last two-three months, people have been burying their dead here. Sand covering the bodies is blown away by strong winds, exposing the decomposing bodies. Predatory birds and dogs feast gather and feast on the remains. The government should make arrangements for proper burials,” Dina Yadav, a local resident, told news agency ANI.A priest at the Phaphamau Ghat, who requested anonymity, said people hire labourers for a few hundred rupees to dig graves for burial.Raju Nishad, a boatman at Phaphamau Ghat, said such burials pose a big health hazard to local residents.As the district administration and the police look to tackle the issue, a police team was deployed along the ghats in Prayagraj on Sunday, and officials were seen urging people to ensure safe burials and cremations. The district administration has also announced ₹5,000 aid to those who don’t have the money for cremation.Inspector general of police of Prayagraj range, K P Singh, said a cremation ground has been earmarked for burials of Covid patients as per protocols, and the police are no longer allowing burials on the riverfront.Earlier, similar scenes were witnessed in UP’s Unnao district, after which a team of the local police carried out an inquiry to find more bodies.Over the last week, Ghazipur and Bihar’s Buxar too have seen grim incidents of bloated, decomposing bodies floating in the river. Many washed up on the shores while some were pulled up by stray dogs.While it remains unconfirmed if the bodies in Prayagaraj are of Covid-19 patients, nearby residents have said such scenes have never been witnessed before and only started with the second Covid wave. “We have never seen such a sight near the river Ganga before. There are thousands of bodies here. The government should follow ‘Swachh Bharat’ and maintain cleanliness in the area,” Sanjay Srivastav, a local, told ANI.As per the HT dashboard, Uttar Pradesh reported 10,505 new Covid cases on Sunday, taking its total tally to 1,619,645. The toll in the state has reached 17,546 with 308 new fatalities.According to the district administration, 165 fresh cases and nine deaths were reported in Prayagraj on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shallow-graves-on-ganga-bank-in-up-villagers-say-burials-spiked-recently-101620847125584.html
17-05-2021||Today's||India’s vaccine policy needs an urgent reset||India has four decades of experience in running a national immunisation programme for children and pregnant women. It has successfully conducted large-scale mass vaccination drives for many years for polio elimination. Therefore, there was every reason to believe it could deliver Covid-19 vaccines efficiently; however, the ongoing drive in India is faltering (and even that is an understatement).The initial challenge of vaccine hesitancy was soon replaced by that of short supply (from early April onwards); with the opening of Covid-19 vaccination for all adults in the 18-44 age group, everyone, including those above 45 years, is finding it difficult to get vaccinated. The daily vaccination rate has come down to around two million doses, nearly half the vaccination rate at its peak in April.As per the vaccine distribution formula developed by the Union government and shared with the Supreme Court, for nearly 600 million people in the 18-44 age group, for May, the number of vaccine doses available (to be purchased by the state governments) will be around 20 million (another 20 million will be available to private hospitals). Vaccine manufacturers are not able to supply vaccines to states. The outcome is that many states have either not started vaccinations for those in this age group or have halted it due to a shortage of supply. People are finding it difficult to book a slot on the CoWin portal — the government IT application for vaccination— and there is a real risk of vaccine inequity, where those without access to smartphones and the internet, may not get a shot for a long while.An elementary measure of performance of a well-functioning vaccination programme (or any health programme) is that the people eligible for vaccination (or health services) get it promptly. This doesn’t seem to be happening at the moment and demands the urgent attention of those at the highest levels of policymaking and implementation.A successful vaccination drive is the outcome of assured supply, simplified policies and an adaptive delivery approach. An assured vaccine supply is the first and absolute essential before the launch of the programme. If supplies are limited, doses available have to be used for vaccination of the identified priority groups, with phased openings for additional population groups. All countries across the world first secured vaccine supply and then opened up the vaccination in a graded manner for various population groups. The United States, the United Kingdom and the European Union started to secure supplies by the middle of 2020.India seems to have erred at many steps in this process. It placed the first order with vaccine manufacturers, just a few days before the launch of the vaccination drive on January 16. Nearly 940 million people are eligible for vaccination and the current total vaccine production in India is 70-80 million doses a month. A few weeks ago, the Centre placed fresh orders for a total of 160 million doses for May, June and July, which will be used for the 45-plus age group. However, between March 16 and April 30, a total of 116 million people received their first shot. Even if we exclude a small fraction of those who received the Covaxin shot between March 15-31 (they may have already received their second shot in April, as the gap, in this case, is four weeks), nearly 110 million people were scheduled to return for their second shot between May and July 2021. It is likely that a small proportion of the 110 million people waiting for their second dose would go to the private sector. Even then, of the secured Union government vaccine supply of 160 million for May to July, only 50-million-odd shots would be available for 45 years and older coming for their first shot.Can India be assured of increase in vaccine supply by July 2021? It is unlikely to be to the extent of 150 million doses a month as is being suggested. A large manufacturer in India planned to have a monthly production capacity of 100 million doses by January, a timeline which has now been shifted to July. After all, vaccine manufacturing and scaling up are complex processes and an ambitious timeline does not always work. The situation of other manufacturers is likely to be similar. The contribution of vaccine imports will be marginal to the overall supply for India.In the wake of supply constraints and challenges, the role of vaccination policy and delivery strategy becomes vital to avoid chaos at the vaccination centres. All policy options and delivery strategies should be re-examined and simplified. The increase in the gap between the two doses of Covishield, announced last week, and which was being suggested by many for months, is one such. There are others. Which population group can be safely asked to wait for their vaccine shots? Can vaccination for any age group (18-30 years) be put on hold till assured supply? Some of these are controversial questions – but they need to be addressed.Part of the problem seems to be the fact that there is political decision-making in the areas that are purely technical. The political leadership should give a free hand to technical experts to decide and implement new strategies. The leaders of opposition parties have written to the government to revise the vaccination policy and strategy. This could make the government harden its stand, which it should not do. In the end, all that should matter is whether any policy decision, even if it is a reversal of an existing position, will help in ensuring vaccines reach people.For six weeks now, India’s vaccination drive has been struggling. How long must one wait before acknowledging that what was planned is not working? It is often said that Indian policymakers have mastered the art of drafting policies, which, while being perfect on paper, are poorly implemented on the ground. India’s Covid-19 vaccination efforts have areas for improvement, both in policy and implementation. The government should do all that is needed to make it work, here and now.Chandrakant Lahariya is a public policy and health systems expert. He is the co-author of Till We Win: India’s Fight Against The COVID-19 PandemicThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/indias-vaccine-policy-needs-an-urgent-reset-101621261092043.html
17-05-2021||Today's||On CSR, companies will have to step up their vigilance||The purpose of Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) is to drive positive social change. India has been at the forefront by making CSR mandatory in select categories under the Companies Act, 2013. Covid-19 has highlighted the need to have a more structured approach, with corporates playing a key role in relief initiatives. But the debate to determine the effectiveness of any previous CSR efforts has thrown up several challenges: Finding reliable implementing partners, monitoring and tracking funds, and assessing their impact. The impact of Covid-19 has acted as a driver for the government to shift from a “voluntary” to “mandatory” approach to CSR. In January 2021, the introduction of the Companies (Corporate Social Responsibility Policy) Amendment Rules, 2021, brought about sweeping changes, outlining additional responsibilities for companies, boards, CSR committees and implementing agencies. Two key clauses cover unspent funds being transferred to a designated account and conducting impact assessments. This makes corporate governance critical for CSR, putting the onus on stakeholders to maintain the accuracy of records, robust practices and regular monitoring of CSR expenditure. The amendments will compel CSR committees, boards and the chief financial officers (CFO) to institute a transparent monitoring mechanism for the policy and projects, factoring in potential non-compliance, fraud and lapses in integrity.The 2021 rules require registered entities with a credible track record to undertake projects on behalf of a company. All eligible partners need to be registered with the ministry of corporate affairs, and obtain a unique CSR registration number. This will have to be quoted in the company’s annual report.According to an Ernst & Young (EY) survey, CSR in India: re-engineering compliance and fraud mitigation strategies, 65% of the respondents did not have a defined third-party due diligence policy that covered implementation partners. This was alarming, considering 75% said they worked with agencies to execute their CSR programmes. Third-party risk is one of the inherent challenges that companies need to address upfront and bridge the gaps.Having an implementation agency without adequate due diligence can magnify risks. There may be several agencies in the race with questionable track records, litigation history, fraud and corruption issues or dubious affiliations. The process of due diligence cannot be over-emphasised considering concerns including financial misrepresentation, conflict of interest, ghost beneficiaries, tax evasion or inflated expenditure.Our survey also noted that 75% said their businesses did not have a governance structure or a definite policy to address ethical lapses or fraud in CSR programmes. This can be dangerous as the 2021 rules will hold the board, CSR committees and CFOs accountable to oversee and review CSR activities. They are also mandated to disclose the committee’s composition, policy, and board-approved projects on their websites. Further, the CFO or equivalent is required to certify if CSR funds are utilised as approved by the board. Companies will have to ramp up internal controls when selecting, getting information on and functioning of implementing partners to safeguard against misappropriation, misrepresentation and other vulnerabilities. The introduction of monetary penalties can be a deterrent, making it crucial to have strong systems, governance, transparency and maintain regulatory compliance.The accountability of companies has grown manifold, given the additional compliances and strict penal provisions. It is likely to require a significant overhaul in how organisations approach and run CSR programmes. The way forward demands CSR implementation, monitoring, record-keeping and ancillary activities be prominent in the company’s wider corporate governance plan.Arpinder Singh and Saguna Sodhi are partners, Forensic & Integrity Services, EYThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/on-csr-companies-will-have-to-step-up-their-vigilance-101621261031132.html
17-05-2021||Today's||The role of constitutional courts||Our Constitution delineates both the powers and responsibilities of institutions and those who govern them. This institutional edifice must be protected. If not, those manning the institutions, by their actions, are likely to cater to their enervation and eventual decimation. Today, we are seeing that happening before our eyes. We are ourselves to blame for not raising our voice and calling to attention the malaise that has set in.Our fundamental rights are set out in Part-III of the Constitution. Under certain circumstances, they are subject to legislative curtailment. Equality before the law is a fundamental constitutional premise, prohibiting discrimination on grounds of race, caste, creed, religion, place of birth and sex, subject to the caveat that the disadvantaged may be empowered by acts of positive discrimination.Other rights, fundamental to our existence, including freedom of speech, freedom to form associations, to move throughout the territory of India along with the right to carry on any profession, trade or business, are subject to regulation. They need to be protected from unreasonable legislative and executive interference.Also Read | In Covid-19 second wave, how children are sufferingToday, our lament is that constitutional courts obliged to uphold these rights have, in recent years, often been lethargic and occasionally remiss in protecting citizens from legislative and executive excesses. Any matter before the court, apart from pure personal inter-party disputes, involves individuals and the State. We can assume that in that equation, the State represents power and the aggrieved individual, its target, is relatively powerless. In this context, the largest litigant in this country is the State, as also the most powerful. The role of a court in deciding such disputes must not just be stated but assessed in the context of its performance in recent years.There is no point in having a judiciary in which the judges do not have a liberal mindset. A judge with a conservative disposition is acceptable but not an illiberal judge. Such a judge should not find a place at least in our constitutional courts. A judge with a statist mindset ends up helping the powerful and failing to protect the weak. This does not mean that individuals should be protected, despite their open flouting of the law. It only means that courts should scrutinise the exercise of power by the State on the touchstone of reasonableness, and that the extent of its exercise of power is proportionate to the outcome sought to be achieved. The court must not allow it to be misused to emasculate individual freedoms.A judge who accepts statements by the State without adequate scrutiny does a disservice to his oath of office. The actions of the powerful must be scrutinised to ensure compliance with laws that are reasonable. An unreasonable law upheld by the court itself amounts to denigrating the freedoms we cherish. Laws that presume the guilt of a person, that unfairly shift the burden of proof, that prohibit the grant of bail unless the court believes the person prosecuted is innocent, are laws that are ex-facie unreasonable. They need to be scrutinised.Executive actions misusing provisions of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act to target students and those who agitate against government policies should be frowned upon. The constitutionality of laws and actions to prosecute for sedition our young, who have no means or power to overthrow the established government, needs to be adjudicated without delay. Such laws are being openly misused. How else can one justify the existence of constitutional courts, which are obliged to protect the freedoms that we cherish?Constitutional lethargy witnessed in recent years in not deciding matters of great moment with alacrity is another matter of concern. Petitions challenging the November 2016 demonetisation decision have, to date, not been taken up. The challenge to the constitutional validity of electoral bonds, through which political parties are funded, is lying in slumber. The absence of its constitutional scrutiny, in fact, changes equations of power in a democracy threatened by an oligarchic set-up.Also Read | Delhi’s daily Covid-19 cases drop below 5,000 for first time after April 5The decision of enforcing a sudden lockdown, without adequate notice, in response to the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic left millions of hapless migrants stranded. The nation witnessed tragic images still etched in our minds. The court should have immediately ensured that the mandate of the law to provide migrants with basic amenities was adhered to. A court that chooses to accept the statements made by the State at face value, allows the powerful to act arbitrarily, without accountability.The second wave of the pandemic has shown our State structures to be callous and insensitive. The virus has entered almost every home and the State is clueless and totally unprepared. Hundreds of thousands of people gasped for oxygen for survival. Many succumbed. Floating bodies, heartbreaking stories and the accompanying mayhem have made us numb. The Election Commission has much to answer for. So has the executive. Only the courts can provide oxygen to the system to make the government and institutions and those who man them accountable. That is what courts are meant for.Kapil Sibal is a former Union law minister, a Member of Parliament, Congress leader and senior advocate The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-role-of-constitutional-courts-101621254850627.html
17-05-2021||Today's||Why the judiciary must step back||Much has been written and spoken about the judiciary overstepping its jurisdictional limits set by the Constitution and arrogating to itself powers outside its legitimate domain. The pandemic has led the courts to new levels of overreach in the form of suo moto notice of developments, becoming both the petitioner and judge.The Supreme Court (SC), always called the sheet-anchor of democracy and justice, seemed to have lost its proverbial cool, and reportedly made some derogatory observations, admonishing the Election Commission and the government. Even obiter dicta remarks with a tinge of negativity coming from the bench are likely to make headlines. Therefore, judges are expected to be more circumspect. Perhaps taking a cue from SC, several high courts also indulged in the unfortunate game of admonishing democratically constituted governments.Unlike the United Kingdom, we have a written Constitution which establishes the three organs of the State — the executive, the legislature and the judiciary. It defines and delimits their jurisdictions and powers, demarcates their responsibilities, and regulates their relationship with each other and with the people. None of the three can assume for itself a position superior to the other two, except as ordained by the Constitution.Our Constitution provides for judicial review of legislation and administrative action. But, unlike the United States, our founding fathers provided for only limited judicial review. It was a corollary to their rejecting the “due process of law” clause and instead, accepting the “in accordance with law”, formulation — even though SC has tried to bring back the due process concept through the backdoor because it gives more power and freedom to courts pronouncing on the vires of legislation or executive action.Under the Constitution, the council of ministers is responsible and answerable only to the House of the People. No institution, however supreme in its domain, is above the Constitution and the people. No organ or institution can, therefore, cast itself in the role of a conscience-keeper of the nation or of a superior which can call the duly elected government to order. Courts, in particular, should never be seen as supporting the government in its wrongdoing or as adding fuel to fires lit by the Opposition. Party politics, struggle for power, political management and public administration belong to a different genre, and judges can never be substitutes for those in government or in the opposition.No doubt, the independence of the judiciary is important, but so is the independence of the Parliament, the Election Commission and other institutions. The popularly elected government, which is, at all times, accountable to the supreme masters — we, the people of India — equally deserves to be respected by all citizens and institutions.In the present case, like a superior officer asking a subordinate authority, SC is reported to have gone so far as to have called for data and reports with facts, figures, proposed plans and strategies to meet the situation, as if the government was not responsible to Parliament but to SC acting as a super cabinet.While the situation in the wake of the pandemic’s second wave is too terrible not to disturb any citizen, all the three organs of the State, all institutions (governmental and non-governmental), and all political parties (whether in government or in the opposition), would best serve the nation and citizens by coming together — assiduously performing their assigned role, understanding each other’s difficulties, instead of interfering in each other’s sphere, and shouting, yelling and calling each other names.As far as the judiciary, from top to bottom, is concerned, it has much on its plate which needs to be executed — to prepare a plan and chalk out strategies to clear the backlog of millions of pending cases, improve the justice delivery system, reduce long delays, and make justice less costly and more affordable for citizens.No institution can encroach on the territory of another. For example, Article 124 of the Constitution provides for SC consisting of a chief justice and “of not more than seven other judges”, “unless Parliament by law prescribes a larger number”. This number is now 34. Every time the number has gone up, Parliament has done it by law. It could not be done by SC itself on the ground of independence of the judiciary.On the other hand, in the judges’ appointment case, SC struck down articles 124A and 124B providing for National Judicial Appointments Commission (NJAC). This was an unconstitutional judgment, violative of constitutional provisions with the court assuming constituent powers which it does not have. To judge the constitutionality of any act, the point of reference has to be the existing text of the Constitution. Also, under Article 368, constituent power is specifically vested in Parliament and an amendment of the Constitution can be “initiated only by the introduction of a Bill for the purpose in either House of Parliament”.The President, the prime minister and all the ministers and, for that matter, all the judges themselves take oath by the Constitution, which includes all the 104 Amendments with the 99th Amendment providing for NJAC. As for the argument that the power to amend is a limited power, the court’s power to interpret is equally a limited power.All this is relevant in the present case because it is felt that things would not have come to such a pass, but for a weak-kneed response in accepting an unconstitutional and untenable verdict delivered by the beneficiaries themselves. And that is why the constitutional way to handle the pandemic is to leave it to the separate organs of the State to perform the functions — and only the functions — they are meant to.Subash C Kashyap is a veteran constitutional expert and former secretary-general of the Lok Sabha The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/why-the-judiciary-must-step-back-101621168808002.html
17-05-2021||Today's||The new Israel-Hamas conflict is distinct and more dangerous||In the six days since the confrontation began in the Haram al-Sharif/Temple Mount area in the old city of Jerusalem last Sunday, the Israel-Hamas conflict has claimed the lives of at least 120 Palestinians and eight Israelis, and witnessed over 2,000 rockets being launched from the Gaza Strip and hundreds of Israel aircraft raids and artillery attacks on the Palestinian areas. With both sides determined to escalate, the prospects of an immediate ceasefire and cessation of hostilities look grim.A measured response is not the Israeli style because such minimalist measures do not address its larger military objective — deterrence. Despite international criticism of “disproportionate use of force”, by inflicting a larger price, both in terms of lives and material destruction, Israel seeks to minimise the frequency and intensity of Hamas attacks, if not stop them completely.Going by recent developments, the current round of hostilities will be as severe as the last one. The 2014 Israel-Hamas conflict lasted for 50 days, and Hamas admitted that at least 2,310 Gazans were killed. While Israel false-flagged a ground offensive, the bringing down of a 14-storey building in Gaza city on Wednesday indicates complex ground operations involving controlled demolition.Still, even by West Asian standards, the ongoing Israeli-Hamas conflict is unprecedented and broke several previous landmarks, in the negative sense of the term.One, the conflict is not confined to the Gaza Strip and has already spread to West Bank. During the previous three rounds of violence in 2008-09, 2012 and 2014, when Israel was pounding the Gaza Strip, the West Bank remained largely peaceful. While there were demonstrations in several western capitals and some Arab countries, the Palestinian National Authority (PNA)-ruled West Bank remained indifferent. The Fatah-Hamas hostility was so acute that West Bankers largely ignored the Israeli attacks on Gaza, despite the 2008-09 conflict lasting for 22 days, 2012 for eight days and 2014, for 50 days.The ongoing violence is different, and there are clashes between Israel and the Palestinians in different parts of the West Bank. Though larger Palestinian towns are under the control of the PNA, Israel controls sizeable tracts of territories and smaller habitats. The intersections between the two areas have become friction points between the Israeli Defence Forces and the Palestinians.Second, since the first intifada of 1987, Israel’s Arabs citizens (who make up about one-fifth of the total Israeli population) have largely stayed away from Palestinian violence. There were minor protests shortly after the outbreak of the second intifada, which resulted in the October 2000 riots in Arab towns and cities in northern Israel, leading to the death of at least 12 Israeli Arabs and one Palestinian from Gaza.This time around, protests against the Israeli operations against Hamas have incensed Israeli Arabs, leading to riots in several mixed towns such as Beersheba, Ramle, Lod, Haifa, Acre and Sakhnin. Some of them witnessed violence against Jews and Jewish properties, and a synagogue was torched in Lod. Indeed, for the first time since the military government was abolished in 1966, Israel had to use emergency powers to manage the violence in the Arab sector. The incitement of Jewish extremist groups only made matter worse and several Muslim gravestones were desecrated and there are also reports of lynchings of Arabs and Jews.Three, the Israel-Hamas violence has been used by elements in Lebanon and Syria to launch rocket attacks from the north. These attacks appeared to have been carried out by Palestinian elements in these countries. However, if the Gaza conflict escalates or Israel responds militarily to these attacks, one should expect militant groups in these countries, namely the Hizbollah in Lebanon and pro- and anti-Assad forces in Syria, to join the fight.Thus, Israel is facing multiple challenges, the worst in its history. Even in the October War of 1973, Israel only had two State adversaries; now, it faces non-State adversaries from all sides, in addition to internal challenges from extremist elements within the Arab and Jewish population.Four, the only similarity with the previous violence is the lukewarm administration in Washington. During its three rounds of conflict since 2008, Israel, more particularly, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, was facing Barack Obama, and now has to deal with Joe Biden. Despite his personal association and friendship with Israel dating back to the days of prime minister Golda Meir, Biden is yet to establish a modus vivendi with the Israeli leader. There are acute differences between the two over Iran, and Biden’s desire to tone down some of Donald Trump’s pro-Israeli policies and postures before the current crisis.Several of Biden’s senior officials, including secretary of state Antony Blinken, are of the Jewish faith, but they represent the progressive wing of Judaism and the Democrat party. Hence, their views on the Israeli-Palestinian conflict are radically different from the mainstream Republicans and less friendly than Trump’s.Five, while the international community wants de-escalation and an early end to the conflict, the chances of successful external mediation are not bright. Iran wields considerable influence on Hamas but has emerged as the nemesis of Israeli-Palestinian peace and under Recep Tayyip Erdogan, Turkey is moving towards the enemy camp. In 2014, Qatari mediation backfired and only prolonged the conflict and Palestinian sufferings and other Arab players do not carry any leverage vis-à-vis the militant group. Though China and Russia have been engaging with Hamas, their diplomatic capital is not commensurate with the challenge.The only country that has some leverage is Egypt due to its past engagements with Hamas and its geographical proximity to the Gaza Strip, and President Fattah el-Sisi carries some influence. But a ceasefire will be a stop-gap arrangement until the next round. A real solution rests with the Biden Administration and its ability to earn the trust and confidence of all parties towards restarting the Israeli-Palestinian negotiations.PR Kumaraswamy teaches contemporary Middle East, Jawaharlal Nehru University The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-new-israel-hamas-conflict-is-distinct-and-more-dangerous-101621168570722.html
17-05-2021||Today's||For India’s sake, PM Modi must find his voice||Good governments communicate and they do it for one simple reason. Their intention is to carry the people with them. So they don’t simply inform, they also consciously promote the impression we are one. And they seek to do this by delivering a message that can bind the country together. When done effectively, it also wins support for them, even though the going may be rough and their achievements few and far between.There’s also a second truth. Great leaders can find the words that express the resolve or aspirations of their people. Think of Winston Churchill in World War II: “We shall fight on the beaches, we shall fight on the landing grounds, we shall fight in the fields and in the streets, we shall fight in the hills; we shall never surrender.”Or Franklin D Roosevelt at his first inauguration during the depths of the Depression: “This is pre-eminently the time to speak the truth, the whole truth, frankly and boldly. Nor need we shrink from honestly facing conditions in our country today. This great nation will endure as it has endured, will revive and will prosper. So, let me assert my firm belief that the only thing we have to fear is fear itself.”I’m afraid, on both counts, our government and our prime minister (PM) have disappointed us. This is why many feel abandoned and helpless, full of despair and unable to see the flicker of light that can keep hope alive.Let me come to specifics so you can better understand. First, the press conferences our government holds may be long but they’re conducted thoughtlessly. We’re drowned in a deluge of detailed information which is impossible for most people to comprehend. No doubt it’s delivered by well-meaning bureaucrats but they lack the capacity to hold attention and they don’t. But, worst of all, there’s a definite reluctance to reveal the grim truth. You sense it’s being withheld. Consequently your doubts are confirmed whilst your fears remain unresolved. The private news channels rarely show them in full. Last week, on two occasions, even Rajya Sabha TV cut out early.The most inexplicable part is the press conferences are almost entirely in Hindi. It’s as if no one cares whether South India or the Northeast is listening. Their unfamiliarity with or, even, aversion to Hindi is well-known. Is this the time to force it upon them?I watch these press conferences regularly. I learn from them. However, I’m a journalist wanting to find out. But I’ve never met anyone outside my profession who’s tuned in. Many are not even aware they happen. So are they achieving their purpose? I doubt it.However, what truly perplexes me is our PM’s silence. Without doubt, he’s the best communicator we have. He’s capable of heights of oratory and has a gift for capturing the mood of the country. Today, when we are shaken, depressed and some are even losing hope, we need him to give us strength and courage, vision and determination. But he has nothing to say. Indeed, he’s not just silent, he’s almost invisible.But let me go further. At a moment when we need a leader we can identify with, his appearance suggests he’s become a different person. He has a right to grow a beard but is he aware to many it suggests retreat and withdrawal? When we need a warrior, we see instead a Himalayan sage.Now, I know I’m only reflecting my personal views but what else can an individual express? I can’t pretend to speak for others and yet I don’t believe I’m a lone voice either. We know things have gone horribly wrong. We know putting them right won’t be easy. In fact, it will be tortuous. But we’ll only believe we can do it when our government speaks honestly to us. That’s why communication is so important. Alongside that we need the PM to rekindle hope and resolve. That’s why he must find his voice again.Karan Thapar is the author of Devil’s Advocate: The Untold StoryThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/for-india-s-sake-pm-modi-must-find-his-voice-101621085047946.html
17-05-2021||Today's||For India’s Opposition, the one big question||India’s national Opposition has a problem — it is a problem that was first spotted in 2014, and then got magnified in 2019. It does not have a leader with the same mass connect, political skills, and public acceptability as Narendra Modi. And till it is able to resolve this question — who will take on Modi in 2024 in what will, yet again, be a presidential-style contest? — the political script in India will be hard to alter.Two events in the past week brought forth the Opposition conundrum. The Congress Working Committee met to take stock of its miserable electoral performance in the recent polls; party president, Sonia Gandhi, acknowledged the scale of the crisis and said that the party had to confront reality. But in the backdrop of the second wave of the pandemic, the party deferred its internal organisational election — thus leaving the question of leadership unresolved. Sonia Gandhi wants to quit and get her son, Rahul, to take charge. Rahul Gandhi is in charge of the party’s messaging and strategy, but does not want to take over officially. And the dissenters neither have a leader nor the required internal strength to challenge the Nehru-Gandhi family — and so the limbo continues.Separately, a set of Opposition leaders, Sonia Gandhi, former prime minister HD Deve Gowda, veterans Sharad Pawar and Farooq Abdullah, chief ministers Mamata Banerjee, MK Stalin, Uddhav Thackeray, Hemant Soren, political figures from the Hindi heartland, Akhilesh Yadav and Tejashwi Yadav, and Left leaders Sitaram Yechury and D Raja, wrote a letter to PM Modi with a set of suggestions on India’s Covid management. At least three of the parties represented in the letter, the Congress, Trinamool Congress, Nationalist Congress Party, would like to see their leaders assume national power in 2024.At this stage in a national crisis, nothing is more urgent than a democratic debate, with questions and constructive suggestions, on how India can beat the pandemic. And, so, the Opposition is right to challenge the government on its failure to anticipate the second wave and boost India’s health infrastructure sufficiently, and its flawed vaccination policy. But this is also driven, partly, by what Opposition parties sense as a possible shift in the national mood — visible in independent institutions taking on a more adversarial role, direct criticism of the Centre across platforms, and the agony-laced anger of those who have suffered and lost loved ones against what has come across as an insensitive regime.But if the Opposition wants to move beyond the specifics of the current moment, it cannot avoid the key question which will enable a challenge in 2024 — if not Modi, then who?Postponing the decision till after the elections did not work in either 2014 or 2019, for voters opted for what they thought would be strong and decisive leadership as opposed to a chaotic coalition headed by a weak figurehead — and repeating the same mistake in 2024 is unlikely to yield a different outcome. Postponing the decision will not work because the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) does better in national elections than in state elections due to Modi’s popularity, and having a credible challenger is key. And it will not work because just cobbling together state-level alliances, without a clear roadmap of who would assume national leadership, isn’t enough to win over voters (as witnessed in Uttar Pradesh in 2019).And, so, that question will need to be answered now; all other Opposition forces will have to rally behind this mutually-agreed upon common leader; and in the next three years, this Opposition leader will have to expand his or her national appeal, with a conscious attempt at creating a brand and message and following, just as Narendra Modi did in the period between 2011 and 2014.But arriving at a common choice is also, admittedly, the most difficult part.In 2014, the Congress made the mistake of underestimating the power of Modi’s appeal. It did not have a prime ministerial candidate — Manmohan Singh was on his way out, Sonia Gandhi had not become PM when she had the opportunity to do so in 2004 and was not a contender, and Rahul Gandhi was campaigning but was not officially declared the PM candidate. In 2019, Rahul Gandhi was both party president and the party’s star campaigner — and thus de facto PM candidate. In 2024, while the party has not revealed its cards and internal elections may shape leadership possibilities, it will stake claim for leadership, with Rahul Gandhi the favourite to be the party face again.The problem with Rahul Gandhi is not, contrary to what many outside the party fold think, that he is a fifth-generation dynast (voters continue to elect dynasts in India). Neither is it, contrary to what he may think himself, that the Congress organisation is weak and corrupt and cannot carry forward his message. Nor is it that he is not party president — the party can well have one leader in charge of organisational affairs, as distinct from another leader as the public face for 2024.The main problem with Rahul Gandhi is that he is not seen as competent and does not have a political and administrative track record. To be sure, he may well be competent, but voters don’t know it and haven’t seen it. Take the last three prime ministers — Atal Bihari Vajpayee had been a parliamentarian for four decades, a foreign minister, leader of the Opposition, and party leader; Manmohan Singh lacked a mass base but had earned his spurs as a veteran technocrat turned finance minister turned leader of Opposition in the upper house and party functionary; Narendra Modi had been a Rashtriya Swayamsevak pracharak for 15 years (and irrespective of what one thinks about that role, it is hard grassroots work), a party organiser for over 13 years, and chief minister for 13 years.Rahul Gandhi hasn’t led his party to electoral success. He hasn’t been a minister. His parliamentary record is patchy at best. How are voters supposed to know he can lead? Add to this his perceived inconsistency, in terms of commitment to the hard grind of politics, which appears to stem from his ambivalent relationship with power. Yes, Gandhi has made sensible suggestions on Covid-19, but his appeal outside the core Congress vote-base remains limited. And so, while he remains the Opposition’s most prominent face, he faces obstacles in winning across-the-board acceptability of his party, possible allies, and then Indian citizens.On the other hand, the problem with regional leaders is that they are confined to their geographical pockets; that they are still too closely associated with their caste, regional or ethnic identity; that replicating state-level successes at the national level is difficult for any of them; and most of them lack urban and middle-class support. In addition, any leader who begins harbouring ambitions is undercut by all others — both from the Congress and other regional forces. And the BJP is only too glad to adroitly exploit these internal contradictions.Given these difficulties, the Opposition has understandably chosen to focus on messaging and coordination, and left the most difficult question of leadership till later. But later will be too late.To take on Narendra Modi in 2024, India’s Opposition needs to agree on its leader, one leader, in 2021||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/for-india-s-opposition-the-one-big-question-101621085045428.html
17-05-2021||Today's||In search of today’s community leaders||Where are our leaders?I do not mean political leaders. By our leaders, I mean those who lead us to think, lead us to examine ourselves, lead to a change, if necessary, in our ways. Lead us, not herd us; speak to us, not become loudspeakers; become our thought-partners, not our brainwashers.Where are they?When, with the virus at our throats, it was critical, life-savingly critical, that we thin ourselves out, do not huddle, do not breathe into each others’ nostrils, we saw the Kumbh Mela arranged.Arranged? That will be putting it absurdly mildly. It was assembled like armies in a battle would be, with trains bringing thousands upon thousands of “pilgrims” into Haridwar for the holy dip. They came literally sticking to each other, for our trains are ever smaller than the humanity that swarms into them.Readers from the world of Hindi cinema will remember Harindranath Chattopadhyay’s lyrics in the film Aashirwad. Brahmpur Dharampur; Dharmpur Brahmpur; Mangalore Bangalore; Bangalore Mangalore; Mandwa Khandwa; Khandwa Mandwa; Raipur Jaipur; Jaipur Raipur; Talegaon Malegaon; Malegaon Talegaon; Chhuk Chhuk Chhuk Chhuk…That is how they came to Haridwar and dipped in the waters of the Ganga all at once, getting their bodies’ fluids to flow from one to the other. Why did they converge like that? Did they not know what risk they were taking? Would they, if asked to, jump into a fire? No. But they did precisely that.Where are those women and men in our community – not in our political community but in our human community – who would and could yell to the chhuk chhuks – ruk, ruk, arey ruk (stop, stop, stop)?Newspaper columns, editorials, did, here and there, say that this was suicidal, murderous. But did our sants, mahants, pandits, purohits, babas, gurus, say a word to discourage this? No, they did not. They were silent. Silent as guilt. Silent as crime. Swami Agnivesh, if he had been alive, I believe, would have said stop. But then he is gone. To be fair, I must say here, that some Hindu leader might have done that and, if so, all honour to her or him. But not so as to make counter-waves.In March 2020, similarly, Nizamuddin’s Markaz mosque in Delhi saw a nationwide gathering of Muslims at the Tablighi Jamaat, another super-spreader event which left at least 4,000 cases of the virus and 27 deaths. More recently, at the funeral of a religious figure in Budayun, hundreds converged.Did any imam or maulvi, mullah or shaikh of note say — ruk, stop? Again, to be fair, I must say here, that some Islamic leader might have done precisely that and, if so, all honour to her or him.In all these mass gatherings, participants have come from all over India, funded perhaps from both within and beyond India. They have come with piety, returned with the virus hovering around them.Beyond religious sites, we have the ongoing farm protests. Who can doubt their commitment, their perseverance, their stamina? Who can question their right to protest for their cause? But who can fail to see the danger they are posing to themselves, their near and dear ones and others by being massed like this in the amphitheatre of the epidemic?Unless community leaders speak up, we will not be able to prevent a third and a fourth and more waves, each deadlier than the one before. And we will be bringing to naught the work done by our frontline medical experts, health workers, at great and immediate personal risk to themselves.When after the Chauri Chaura incident on February 4, 1922, Mahatma Gandhi called an abrupt halt to the burgeoning non-cooperation movement, he was being just the kind of leader who is missing now. The leader who sees that something going vitally wrong with the movement or the custom and ends it with one electric ruk, stop.Jinhey naaz hai Hind par, voh kahan hain? (Where are those who are proud of India?)So had Sahir Ludhianvi written in the song Mohammad Rafi sings for Guru Dutt in the film Pyaasa. They were leaders, community leaders. The country thirsts for them.Gopalkrishna Gandhi is a former administrator, diplomat and governorThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/in-search-of-today-s-community-leaders-101621084984200.html
17-05-2021||Editorials||The Sangh-BJP dynamic||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is grappling with not just the most serious health emergency this country has ever seen, but also an emerging political crisis. For the first time in seven years, there are voices within the ruling party’s ideological and political ecosystems asking tough questions to the government about its preparations for the second wave, the absence of medical infrastructure, and the slow vaccination drive. Supporters of the party — just like other Indian citizens, irrespective of political affiliation — have suffered and lost loved ones, and there is a defensiveness that has crept into the party’s response to the criticism.In this backdrop, Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) supremo Mohan Bhagwat, considered the moral guardian of all Sangh affiliates (of which the BJP is one), and who was infected with Sars-CoV-2 himself last month, made his first public remarks on the second wave. Mr Bhagwat claimed that the government, administration and citizens had all become complacent. But that was, broadly, the limits of his criticism, hedged with how society had to share the blame with the State and repeated encouragement to all citizens to stay positive in these difficult times. Mr Bhagwat’s statement has been interpreted as either the Sangh taking a muted, but adversarial, position to warn the government, or a supportive approach, which takes into account the prevailing public sentiment, but actually underscores the need to stay united behind the government in this battle.What appears to be the case, though, is that Mr Bhagwat is accommodating the voices of discontent which have emerged from within the Sangh parivar to alert the government about public sentiment — but without upsetting the broader equation between the Sangh and the party. There remains close ideological synergy between the Sangh and the BJP; Sangh functionaries have benefited from an affiliate being in power; and while the Sangh would like the government to be more proactive, it is clear that it will stick to the government’s broad narrative and not cause public embarrassment and add to its challenges. The BJP will be satisfied with this sign of support, and the party clearly hopes that the mood will shift as the second wave ebbs, but both the Sangh and the government must realise that citizens will continue to yearn for accountability for what has happened.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/the-sangh-bjp-dynamic-101621261033228.html
