18-05-2021||Other||Lost faith in govt, admn, says Rohtak villager who lost 2 sons to Covid||Pratap Kundu, a 60-year-old farmer of Titoli village, 15km from Rohtak, lost both his sons - Bhupinder Kundu, 36, and Yogendra Kundu, 33 - to Covid-19 in the span of five days.His elder son succumbed to the virus on April 29 and the younger one on May 4.The 36-year-old victim has two sons aged 10 and six while the younger one has two children - a six-year-old daughter and a three-year-old son. The grief-stricken family only depends on agriculture to run the family.Kundu said his elder son was first to complain of fever, cough and cold on April 25, following which he was taken to a private hospital in Rohtak.“The next day, my younger son also complained of fever and we admitted him to the same hospital. The elder’s condition started deteriorating after he tested positive for Covid and our relatives brought 12 injections of remdesivir, each costing ₹35,000, from Gurugram,” he said.“On April 29, he lost the battle. My younger son, who had almost recovered, also died on May 4. How do I provide for education of my grandchildren?” Kundu said.Kundu said the family spent over ₹10 lakh trying to save both the sons but could not do so.“I have lost faith in the government and the administration. Due to government apathy, many families like ours have lost their breadwinners and are in debt,” the father added.Victims: Bhupinder Kundu, 36, dhaba owner; and Yogendra Kundu, 33, ran dhaba with his brother and did farmingPlace: Titoli village in RohtakDate of death: April 29 and May 4, respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/lost-faith-in-govt-admn-says-rohtak-villager-who-lost-2-sons-to-covid-101621362375796.html
18-05-2021||Other||Our world got wiped out, don’t take Covid lightly, says Karnal family||As the second wave of Covid-19 sweeps through the country, a Karnal-based family is haunted by the tragedy that the virus caused by claiming lives of four members of the family in a span of three weeks.The family residing in Karnal’s Model Town area urges people not to take this deadly virus lightly.Mayank Malhotra, who is manager at a private bank in Panipat, lost his father advocate Chandar Mohan Malhotra, 75, mother Kiran Malhotra, 69, uncle advocate Jagdish Kumar Malhotra, 73, and paternal aunt Sarla Malhotra, 80, to the virus. They died at the Covid ward of Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College and Hospital, Karnal.Mayank’s elder brother Ashish had returned from aboard following his family testing positive. The brothers are now helping each other through this time.Their father fell ill and was admitted in the hospital on September 3 last year. Two days later, their mother developed symptoms. Their father died on September 5 and mother two weeks later. On September 22 last year, their aunt died and the next day their uncle succumbed to the virus in the same hospital.The brothers have urged people not to take the virus lightly especially when most hospitals are occupied and there is limited infrastructure and hospital staff to take care of patients.The brothers say they were not satisfied with the treatment provided by the KCGMCH. Days after death of their mother, they had filed a complaint against the doctors and hospital staff for keeping them in dark about the medical condition of their mother who they claimed was recovering and died all of a sudden.Mayank said they have still not received any response from the higher authorities over their complaint.Victims: Chandar Mohan Malhotra, 75, advocate; Kiran Malhotra, 69, retired government employee; Jagdish Kumar Malhotra, 72, advocate; and Sarla Malhotra, 80, homemakerPlace: Karnal cityDate of death: September 5, 2020; September 17; September 23; and September 22, respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/our-world-got-wiped-out-don-t-take-covid-lightly-says-karnal-family-101621362134519.html
18-05-2021||Chandigarh||Mandatory vaccination of employees being examined, Chandigarh admn tells HC||The Chandigarh administration on Tuesday told Punjab and Haryana high court that it is examining whether provisions of mandatory vaccination of employees can be invoked. UT’s senior standing counsel Pankaj Jain told the high court that Rule 3.9 Volume 1 (Part I) of Punjab Civil Services Rules is pari materia (two statutes dealing with the same subject) with Rule 24 of Haryana Service Rule (HSR). “The provisions of said rule are being examined and have been sent to the secretary, personnel, Chandigarh administration,” Jain told court to a query raised by the high court during the hearing last week. UT has so far vaccinated 67% of the frontline workers, mostly health officials and police personnel. Will get 20 ventilators in two days: UT Jain also told the court that UT has requested the Centre for 20 more ventilators for Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), 10 for Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH-32), and 14 for Government Multi-Specialty Hospital, Sector-16. The administration has been informed that 20 ventilators shall be sanctioned in a day or two, he told court adding that out of these, 10 ventilators will be installed at GMSH-16 and another 10 will be installed at GMCH-32, Chandigarh. Jain also informed the court that the administration has fixed the upper limit for CT scan/HRCT chest at ₹2,000, inclusive of GST/taxes. However, the court asked UT to reconsider the charges as it felt the charges are on the higher side. The UT further told the court that 174 oxygen concentrators have been received from the Centre and now UT has a backup supply of 100 concentrators. Residents can now even get oxygen cylinders at home through e-permit, the court was told. To a query that security payment of ₹10,000 for an oxygen cylinder is very high, the UT told the court that it will be examined.Now, the court has asked UT to detail on tele-consultancy services being offered to help the residents of the city in Covid pandemic management.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mandatory-vaccination-of-employees-being-examined-chandigarh-admn-tells-hc-101621361414449.html
18-05-2021||Chandigarh||Fuel prices reach all-time high in Chandigarh tricity area||After staying fixed in the months of March and April, fuel prices have hit a record high in the tricity after consistently rising over the last one week. In Chandigarh, petrol prices climbed to ₹89.3 a litre from ₹88.31 on May 11 while diesel rates increased to ₹83.17 a litre from ₹82.03 last week. Mohali and Panchkula too saw a price hike of ₹1 per litre over the last week. In Mohali, petrol currently costs ₹95.05 a litre while diesel is at ₹86.41 per litre. In Panchkula, petrol rates crossed the ₹90-mark for the first time to settle at ₹90.52 a litre while diesel too continued to weigh heavy on the pockets at ₹83.89 per litre. No increase in veggie prices The increase in prices, however, hasn’t affected the prices of vegetables much and is unlikely to happen until the next month as per officials of the Sector 26 wholesale mandi. Officials said, “Right now, we have locally grown vegetables that come from nearby places such as Punjab and Haryana, so fuel isn’t a big factor. Some items such as ginger, ladyfinger, bottle guard and pumpkin come from Delhi and Uttar Pradesh, but locally grown vegetables are also available so prices continue to stay down.” Officials added that next month, locally grown vegetables will reduce and the city will get vegetables, such as peas and cauliflower, from Himachal Pradesh. If the fuel rates keep increasing, these vegetables will end up getting more expensive at the Sector 26 mandi as well as the apni mandis of the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/fuel-prices-reach-all-time-high-in-chandigarh-tricity-area-101621361235123.html
18-05-2021||Other||Police, Prayagraj Nagar Nigam teams guard ghats to check burial of bodies by riverside||: Senior police officials on Tuesday visited Phaphamau ghat and asked against burial of bodies in the sand on the banks of Ganga River. They said the government had announced financial assistance of ₹4000 for cremation of bodies and that the funds would be provided by the Prayagraj Nagar Nigam (PNN). Officials also instructed against burial of bodies at ghats in rural areas. The PNN has constituted teams to maintain vigil at the ghats and asked people against burying bodies in the sand, officials said. The municipal body officials fear rains or rising river water levels might wash the sands away, exposing dead bodies, raising fears of infections. Over the last couple of days, police and PNN teams have stopped many people from burying bodies at Phaphamau Ghat, Arail, Jhunsi, Shringverpur and other cremation ghats across the city and in rural areas. SSP Sarvshrestha Tripathi said police teams had been deployed at the ghats to stop burial of bodies. He said police personnel were warning people of the threats of infections which the buried bodies may pose when river water levels rise. Water police in motorboats is patrolling the river banks to stop immersion of bodies in water, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/police-prayagraj-nagar-nigam-teams-guard-ghats-to-check-burial-of-bodies-by-riverside-101621361113942.html
18-05-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad admin starts special initiative for families who lost sole earning members to Covid||GHAZIABAD: Seventeen-year-old Suryansh Sharma lost his father to Covid-19 on May 11. The schoolboy had no idea about necessary certificates required to get the insurance and other claims after his father’s death. “A lot of legal work was required to gather necessary certificates and other legal documents. But, it was the Ghaziabad administration that appointed a special officer to smoothen the process of paperwork. The officer not only fast-tracked all the clearances, the government officials came to our home directly to collect the papers. I got all the certificates on Monday. My mother is still recovering from the infection,” Suryansh said. Similarly, 13-year-old Devesh Kumar, who lost his father on May 14, said that the dedicated officer of the district administration helped him complete all the formalities on Tuesday. “I’ll be getting the required certificates and documents tomorrow. I’ve no words of gratitude for the DM,” he said. To help out the families who have lost their only earning members to the infection, the district administration has started a programme named ‘always with you’, in which one dedicated officer will be appointed as ‘prashasan mitra’ to such families. Ghaziabad district magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey said that as many families have lost their only earning members to Covid-19, the district administration launched the initiative to reach out to the people in distress. “Going to various offices to obtain the necessary nominee or heir certificates needed for claiming insurance money and pension funds, among others, is almost impossible for young children or women in the ongoing corona curfew. So, we decided to appoint one dedicated officer from the administration – ‘prashasan mitra’ -- to ease the process of obtaining necessary certificates,” Pandey said. “The officer has to ensure that the staff of all departments concerned collect the necessary papers from the victim’s family. After that, it is the duty of that officer to deliver the requisite certificates to the dependants within a day or two,” he said. The DM further said that to avail this benefit, the dependant of the family has to send an e-mail to alwayswithyoudmghaziabad@gmail.com, with their address and phone numbers. “After that, we’ll immediately appoint an officer for such families. The officer will have to ensure the delivery of all necessary certificates,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-admin-starts-special-initiative-for-families-who-lost-sole-earning-members-to-covid-101621361054040.html
18-05-2021||Noida||Second wave worse for children, shelter and rescue requirements on the rise||Noida: The second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic is proving worse for children in Gautam Budh Nagar, with requests for rescue and shelter are on the rise, according to data from the district Childline. There have been 21 requests for rescue in April this year compared to eight in April 2020, showed the data. The requests for shelter (temporary rehabilitation) were also higher. There have been four requests for shelter in April this year, while no such request was made in the same month last year, as per the Childline data.Overall, there were 25 shelter requests and 196 rescue calls between April and December 2020. Till April this year, there have been nine shelter requests and 124 rescue calls. Incidentally, GB Nagar had reported just 100 Covid-19 cases (no death) in April 2020, while the number of positive cases in April this year was 15,232 that included 121 deaths.“Most of these cases are related to children being abandoned by their families. Just last week, we were informed about an abandoned six-year-old child with special needs. So far no one has come forward for him. However, we are prepared to handle any such cases,” said Satya Prakash, programme manager, FXB Suraksha India, the NGO managing the district Childline.The experts claim that majority cases are coming from rural belts which can be attributed to a rise in the number of Covid-19 cases in these areas.“The cases of domestic child abuse are also coming to light now. The initial phases of lockdown saw families enjoying that time. However, now the stress has begun to catch up and we are getting calls for abuse from children. At least five cases have already come to our attention in the last two months,” said Prakash.During the current lockdown which began from April 30, at least 80 calls (till May 17) related to the poor nutrition of children have been reported.“The pattern of the infections spread across families puts kids in a vulnerable position and we are working to help out as many as possible,” said Prakash.On April 29, a helpline (9870395200) was issued by the Noida police for volunteers to provide support to children who have either lost their parents to Covid or whose infected families are unable to care for them. “So far, we have more than 70 volunteers who are ready to provide all sorts of support like medicines, transportation, accommodation and even adoption. We are working on measures to identify beneficiaries specially in rural belts where such cases often go unreported. We will rope in anganwadis and village-level units as well for this,” said Vrinda Shukla, deputy commissioner of police (women and child safety).The officials said that 10 cases have been reported since April 29 where children were in need of resources. Most of them revolved around food or medicine requirements. “There was one case in Greater Noida where siblings aged 10 and 8years lost their parents to Covid-19. They are now in the care of grandparents and we are working on sponsoring at least their education,” said Shukla.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/second-wave-worse-for-children-shelter-and-rescue-requirements-on-the-rise-101621360993952.html
18-05-2021||Noida||Stillbirths higher among Covid-positive pregnant women in second wave||Gynaecologists in Noida and Ghaziabad have reported a rise in stillbirths among pregnant women who either had Covid-19 or recovered from it in the second wave that hit the country in April. The deaths occur mostly in those women whose condition deteriorates suddenly into severe form of the illness, and that most recover without reporting complications, doctors said. They added that without a proper scientific study, it’d not be possible to establish how widespread the cases were or how the disease was linked to stillbirths.While miscarriages occur between the first and third month of pregnancy, stillbirths -- medically called intrauterine fetal deaths (IUFDs) -- mostly happens beyond at a more advanced stage after the second trimester (24 weeks). Gynaecologist Dr. Manisha Ranjan said that about 10 percent of her patients since April reported sudden IUFDs.“Last time, none of our Covid pregnant patients had suffered IUFDs. However this year, not just me but a number of my colleagues too have reported this and miscarriages among these patients. Covid-19 is causing severe vasculitis (inflammation of the blood vessels) among pregnant women which is leading to IUFD cases where the suddenly the patient is losing their baby even in the third trimester,” said Dr Ranjan, Consultant Gynaecologist & Obstetrician from Motherhood Hospital, Noida.She added that maternal mortality rate too has also increased. “Patients’ condition deteriorates suddenly. I lost two patients in the last one month this way,” she said.Dr Neha Mishra, Gynaecologist at Government Institute of Medical Sciences, Greater Noida also agreed.“We haven’t seen many cases of miscarriages among Covid-positive pregnant women but it seems that it is affecting the fetus in the advance stages of pregnancy,” she said. “We have seen three cases of IUFD since April. We lost two Covid-positive women who were in last trimester too.”Lack of oxygen was another reason was a reason that could contribute to the deaths, said Dr Aradhna Singh, Gynaecologist at Fortis Hospital, Noida.“It is not that all pregnant patients are suffering from severe form of Covid, there are several who developed just mild symptoms and their babies turned out fine too,” said Dr Aradhna Singh. “If the mother is unable to get oxygen, the baby also doesn’t get it which leads to stillbirths. I have had three such cases.” At Yashoda Hospital & Research Centre, Nehru Nagar, the gynaecology department head reported six cases of IUFD. “In three cases, the fetus died in the fifth or sixth month, while the rest died in the eighth or ninth month,” said Dr Shashi Arora, head of department of obstetrics, gynaecology & IVF and vice chairperson of the hospital.In March, in a research paper in the medical journal The Lancet, doctors reviewed of 40 studies from 17 countries and found that maternal deaths and stillbirths had risen by a third. The authors pointed to a disruption to services due to lockdown and the fear of attending healthcare facilities.Dr. Ranjana Becon, Gynecologist at Columbia Asia Hospital, Ghaziabad said more studies were required.“There is no empirical evidence right now to establish the connection between Covid-19 and these deaths, but Covid seems to be the only reason why healthy pregnancies are ending like this,” said Dr Becon, adding that there had been five IUFDs at the hospital.“Yes, incidents of IUFDs among Covid-posititve pregnant women have increased this year by 5-10 percent. Stress or raised level of D-Dimer which causes thrombosis (formation of blood clots) in vessels leading to pregnancy loss could be a cause. However, more evidence based research is required to establish this,” said Dr Deepa, senior gynaecologist at Yashoda Hospital, Kaushambi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/stillbirths-higher-among-covid-positive-pregnant-women-in-second-wave-101621360933971.html
18-05-2021||Other||Social media posts of people with illegal firearms comes handy for police in Prayagraj||PRAYAGRAJ: Social media monitoring is helping district police not only in curbing rumours but also in recovering many illegal firearms and arresting their owners. During last few months, police have traced many persons who have posted their videos or photo on social media sites with illegal firearms and initiated action. “Social media cell of police remains active round-the-clock and monitors different social media sites closely. It has not only helped curbing rumours but during past few months many persons who have posed their pictures or videos with illegal firearms on social sites have also been traced,” said SP Crime Ashutosh Mishra. During past some months dozens of arrests have been carried out and the firearms have been recovered from them, he said. “There are many youths who post their photo and videos with firearm just for fun but there are many others whose motive was to create terror among locals and increase their influence. Many of them have past criminal records as well,” SP Crime added. “As soon as the social media cell of the police alerts us about any photo or video, we immediately start tracing the person, he said. Most of the persons who have been arrested recently were from rural areas who have posted their photographs or video with firearms on social media themselves or someone has made them viral out of enmity, he said. Some cases *Around a week ago, a video of newly elected village head Amit Kumar has gone viral in which he was seen firing shots with country made pistol in an inebriated state. Meja police lodged an FIR and arrested the village head. *Earlier, a photograph of a youth posing with a licensed gun at Civil Lines bus station during lockdown period was circulated on social sites. Police arrested the youth with the gun whose license was in the name of another person. *On Monday, Kaundhiara police has arrested two youths Atul and Dharmendra who were seen firing shots at a marriage in a video which they posted on their social media accounts. *Photographs of two youths posing with a country made firearm on facebook has also gone viral few days back. Police has lodged a case and has started tracing them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/social-media-posts-of-people-with-illegal-firearms-comes-handy-for-police-in-prayagraj-101621360813963.html
18-05-2021||Kolkata||CM wants to revive Bengal’s Vidhan Parishad after 52 years; Left, experts oppose||Barely 12 days after being sworn in as the chief minister of West Bengal for the third time, Mamata Banerjee on Monday cleared a cabinet decision to form Vidhan Parishad, or the Upper House legislative council of the state assembly, which she promised before the polls. Banerjee had said that eminent people and veteran leaders who were not nominated for the assembly elections would be made members of the Vidhan Parishad. Bengal has 294 assembly seats. Since the strength of a Vidhan Parishad cannot be more than a third of the Vidhan Sabha, or legislative assembly, Bengal can have 98 members in the legislative council. The chief minister’s decision has been questioned by political experts and Left leaders who see this as a pointless exercise that will add to the burden on the state exchequer. Incidentally, Banerjee, who lost at Nandigram, and Amit Mitra, who has become finance minister without contesting the polls, must return to the assembly. Since Vidhan Parishad members can become ministers, Mitra is likely to be inducted in the Upper House, said Trinamool Congress (TMC) leaders aware of the development. At a virtual meeting of the state cabinet, which took place while two senior ministers and a legislator were in the custody of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) in the Narada sting operation case and Bengal was witnessing demonstrations, Banerjee told senior bureaucrats, who also attended the meeting, to expeditiously prepare a draft bill. TMC leaders said that with a two-thirds majority in the assembly, the party can easily pass a resolution. Only six states - Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Telangana, Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and Maharashtra - have Vidhan Parishads right now. Dr Bidhan Chandra Roy, Bengal’s first chief minister after Independence, formed the Vidhan Parishad in 1952 and it continued till 1969 when the second United Front government abolished the Upper House by passing a Bill. Vidhan Parishad members are elected by civic body members and elected legislators. The governor can nominate some members as well. Bengal’s last Vidhan Parishad had 75 members, of whom nine were nominated by the governor. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which has only 75 MLAs in the Bengal assembly against the TMC’s 213, did not react to the development. The Left parties, which, like the Congress, did not win any seat, opposed the idea. “According to Article 169 of the Constitution, the Parliament has to pass a bill for the creation of Vidhan Parishad and the President’s assent is also mandatory,” said Rabin Deb, a CPI(M) central committee member who served as the chief whip of the Bengal assembly during the Left Front rule. Deb argued that Banerjee and Mitra can easily contest any two of the five seats where polls will be held. Two seats in Cooch Behar and Nadia districts are vacant as the winning BJP candidates resigned to retain their Lok Sabha seats. Two candidates at two seats in Murshidabad district died of Covid-19 before the elections were held and the TMC’s winning candidate at Khardah in North 24 Parganas died of Covid-19. Mitra, incidentally, had won from Khardah in the last two polls. “There is no need to form the Vidhan Parishad. The chief minister simply wants to accommodate more people and add to the state’s financial burden. It is another dole. Vidhan Parishad members get the same salary and perks as MLAs elected by people. Like the Rajya Sabha, a Vidhan Parishad also has a chairman and deputy chairman,” said Deb. “Right now, our priority is to save our supporters from post-poll violence. Our party has not discussed this issue yet,” said Bengal BJP’s chief spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya.Forward Bloc, the party freedom fighter Subhas Chandra Bose formed in 1939 after quitting the Congress and which is a part of the Left Front, is opposed to the formation of the Vidhan Parishad right now. “We are not opposed to the idea in principle but why do it in such a hurry? The Covid pandemic has affected the state’s economy in a big way. People need the government’s support. Why should taxpayers’ money be spent on Vidhan Parishad members? The last Vidhan Parishad was dissolved because it had outlived its purpose and become an easy way out for people who did not want to contest polls,” said Naren Chatterjee, state secretary of the Forward Bloc.Amal Kumar Mukherjee, veteran political scientist and former principal of Presidency College, said, “The legislative council has practically no relevance in the legislative procedure.” “The council’s power is very limited. During Bidhan Roy’s tenure, members of the legislative council were chosen on the basis of their great achievements. For example, the great linguist Suniti Kumar Chatterjee was made the chairman of the council. Gone are those days. Now, everything is determined by politics. I don’t think there is any necessity for a legislative council because it will only agree to whatever is decided by the assembly. Further, it will add a tremendous expenditure. The government, however, cannot form it unless the Parliament gives its consent,” Mukherjee added.Deb said Banerjee first came up with the idea in 2011 after ousting the Left Front government but backed out in the face of opposition from other parties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/cm-wants-to-revive-bengal-s-vidhan-parishad-after-52-years-left-experts-oppose-101621360094638.html
18-05-2021||Other||Forest watcher among four injured in Kheri leopard attack||Four people, including a forest watcher, were injured when a leopard attacked them near Damubehar village in Dhaurahra forest range of north Kheri forest division on Tuesday morning, said Anil Shah, forest range officer, Dhaurahra.The injured identified as forest watcher Vinay Tiwari, villagers Khushhal, Deshavari and Gulshan were rushed to local health centre where their condition was reported to be out of danger. After the incident, the leopard hid in a sugarcane field. Swinging into action, Dhaurahra range forest officials started combing the area to locate the leopard.Villagers assembled in scores there surrounded the sugarcane field where the leopard was suspected to be hiding. However, the leopard was yet to be located when report last came in.As per reports, the leopard had first attacked Khushhal when he went to the fields to relieve himself. When Khushhal cried for help, Deshavari and Gulshan, who were working in the neighbouring fields, rushed to his rescue. However, the leopard attacked them too.When informed, forest officials, including forester Rishabh Pratap Singh and watcher Vinay Tiwari, rushed the area and attempted to locate the big cat on their vehicles. Later, they started combing the field on foot during which the leopard attacked Vinay Tiwari who sustained injuries on his shoulder. The leopard later ran to another cane field.The area where the attacks took place is close to Katarniaghat wildlife sanctuary forests where a number of leopards are found. Two leopards from this range have been captured by forest authorities since October last year after deaths of three people in leopard attacks were reported here.---- Deokant Pandey||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/forest-watcher-among-four-injured-in-kheri-leopard-attack-101621360033873.html
18-05-2021||Noida||Now, auto-ambulances will provide aid to Covid patients in Noida||The Noida Traffic Police department has launched auto-rickshaw ambulances to provide additional support for Covid-19 patients in the city.The service can be availed by calling the helpline 9971009001. The autos have been equipped with oxygen cylinders, pulse-oximeters, regulators, masks, PPE kits, etc. while the drivers have been provided with basic patient care training by medical professionals from Fortis hospital.“There are 20 such autos that have been converted to ambulances. They will ferry patients to hospitals. Of these, five have started operation and gradually when we have more equipment, we will launch the rest as well,” said deputy commissioner of police, traffic, Ganesh Saha.Just like the pricing cap on ambulances, these autos also have fixed rates- ₹500 for 10 kilometres and ₹20 for every subsequent kilometre.Officials are hopeful that this will help in easing the pressure on ambulances and will eventually help the rural belts as well. “The personnel have been trained in basic life support, operate an oxygen cylinder, measure the pulse, SPo2 [oxygen saturation level] and blood pressure of the patients along with how to safeguard themselves against infection,” said a Fortis hospital spokesperson. Hardeep Singh, Zonal Director, Fortis Noida said, “We are proud of the collaboration with the Noida Traffic Police. In preparation for the coming months and the ongoing case load, the auto-ambulance initiative is imperative. It will allow patients from every part of the city to avail emergency services and reach the hospital for treatment.” In addition to this, Noida police in a joint efforts with NGOs and other institutions has also launched a website ‘www.swaasthasewa.com’ to help people in need of food, oxygen, plasma or medical consultation. “We urge the Noida residents to get associated with the website. People can ask for help on the site as well as become volunteers to provide help,” said a police spokesperson. Helplines have also been created for an oxygen bank and food (9971009001).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/now-auto-ambulances-will-provide-aid-to-covid-patients-in-noida-101621359914774.html
18-05-2021||Other||Delay in salary to newly appointed 69,000 teachers - verification of marksheets by varsities reason for delay: Minister||The state government recruited 69,000 assistant teachers for government primary and upper primary schools in October and December last year. Of these, more than 50,000 teachers have not received their salary till date and quite a few of them even succumbed to Covid-19 after they contracted infection during panchayat poll duty, the UP Primary School Teachers Association claimed on Tuesday.Accepting the fact that there has been an inordinate delay in distributing salary to newly appointed teachers, the minister of state for basic education (independent charge), Satish Chand Dwivedi, said the problem is that universities are taking a lot of time in verifying marksheets of these newly recruited teachers.“We have verified high school, intermediate and TET marksheets of the newly appointed teachers, but their graduation and B Ed marksheets are to be verified by respective universities from where they pursued the course. Due to Covid-19, universities are working with fewer staff. Hence, there’s a delay in verification of documents,” he said.“I had expressed my displeasure over the slow pace of verification of documents for newly recruited teachers that is a hurdle in giving salaries to 69,000 assistant teachers recruited last year. I asked officials to expedite the work,” the minister said. He said instructions were issued to pay arrears to teachers who had passed away.According to the UP Primary School Teachers Association, newly appointed teachers get about ₹40,000 per month. It will be an additional load of ₹2.76 billion on the state exchequer.Association president Dinesh Chandra Sharma had made a suggestion that the basic education department take written undertakings from teachers but distribute their salary.To expedite the process, the minister has now asked officials to take written undertakings from newly recruited teachers that if in the verification process their documents are found to be fake then they will return the entire salary to the state exchequer without question.In a review meeting held on Tuesday, the minister ordered action against the Basic Shiksha Adhikari and account officers of Ghazipur district for lapses in salary disbursement of teachers. The action was initiated during divisional level meetings with officials of Varanasi, Vindhyachal and Prayagraj. He said that strict action will be initiated against BSAs for not issuing last payment certificates to teachers who were transferred to other districts.Dwivedi said that he had even issued clear instructions to all departmental officials to expedite payment of salaries to newly recruited teachers and those transferred to different districts. The minister held a virtual review meeting at the divisional level with officials on Monday.He stressed on the payment of pension, general provident fund of retired teachers after reviewing the status of action against teachers who had joined service on fake documents. The minister asked officials to lodge FIR and initiate the process of recovery from them.Keeping in mind the recent Panchayat polls, the minister asked officials to reach out to the newly elected village heads and seek their cooperation for Operation Kayakalp in schools.The teachers association further alleged that despite being allowed to work from home, primary school teachers in various districts, including Lucknow, Unnao, Rae Bareli, Banda, Basti and Hardoi, were being deployed at integrated Covid control rooms, which was a threat to their health.The minister directed that pregnant teachers and those having small children or undergoing treatment should not be deployed for duty by the district administration.Primary school teacher Ramesh Kumar Yadav, 28, died battling Covid-19 on April 23 in Sultanpur. He was among the 69,000 who had got a job when fresh recruitments of assistant teachers were made. The wait for the job had been a long two years as the matter of recruitment had gone to court. Yadav passed away without even getting his first salary. He had been pressed into the panchayat election duty.He was posted at Primary School Adampur, in Sultanpur, in December last year. His family fears he contracted the infection during election training and his condition worsened soon after election duty on April 19.Sunil Kumar Singh, a resident of Jaunpur, passed away on April 24, also without getting his first salary. He got posted at a primary school in Hardoi and was called in for panchayat poll training and election duty.For 40-year-old Sunil, it was his first government job as he was appearing in several competitive exams. He had not got married and was waiting to land a government job before he took the plunge, said Satish Singh, his elder brother, who lit the pyre.It took the state government two years to wrap up the appointment of 69,000 assistant teachers in government primary and upper primary schools across the state. Posts were advertised in December 2018 and the state government could complete the appointment only in December 2020, after a long-drawn legal battle in the high court and Supreme Court after candidates filed a lawsuit.Chief minister Yogi Adityanath had distributed appointment letters to select new recruits in October and December and even interacted with them while others received them from local MLAs, MPs and ministers in the Yogi government in their respective districts. The CM had even advised them to do their duty sincerely and should not come with a request seeking a transfer to their home districts at the time of distributing the appointment letter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delay-in-salary-to-newly-appointed-69-000-teachers-verification-of-marksheets-by-varsities-reason-for-delay-minister-101621359913956.html
18-05-2021||Noida||Three women among six held for running sex racket in Noida||Noida: Six people, including three women, were nabbed on Monday night for their alleged involvement in a sex racket. Police said that the suspects were arrested following a raid at a rented house in C block of Sector 122.According to police officials, it was a small operation running from the rented accommodation. “They did not advertise in any public domain, but rather relied on verbal publicity in a small circle. The house was rented by one of the women suspects,” said Jitendra Kumar Dikshit, station house officer, Phase 3 police station.The three men who were apprehended were customers, police said, adding that the operation was charging ₹1,000 for an hour.“We had a tip-off about the movement of different men and women from the house every few hours. It was more prominent during the lockdown. A raid was conducted at the house and the suspects were nabbed. Only the three working women and customers were found. We are working to find out if more persons are involved in the racket,” said another police official.According to the officials, the husband of the woman renting the house was visiting his hometown and police are trying to ascertain his role in the operation. It appears that none of the women working there was under duress, said police.All the six suspects were booked under relevant sections of the Immoral Traffic (Prevention) Act, 1956 at Phase 3 police station, the officials said, adding that police recovered both used and unused contraceptives in the raid, along with four cellphones, some documents and ₹9,860 cash.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/three-women-among-six-held-for-running-sex-racket-in-noida-101621359854046.html
18-05-2021||Noida||Biker hit by speeding luxury car, dies||Noida: A speeding luxury vehicle mowed down a 52-year-old man in Greater Noida West on Tuesday afternoon in a hit-and-run case, said police.Police identified the dead man by his single name as Ramniwas, a resident of Itehra village in Greater Noida West. According to police, he was on his motorcycle when the accident occurred at around 1.45 pm.“A speeding Jaguar hit his bike near the Jalpura cut. Locals rushed him to a nearby hospital where he was declared brought dead. A team was rushed to the spot as soon as they were informed,” said Rishipal, senior sub-inspector (SSI), Bisrakh police station.Police said that the driver of the vehicle abandoned the car and fled. Police ran a trace on the number plate and found that it belonged to a Noida resident who they were yet to arrest. The victim’s body was sent for an autopsy following which it was handed over to the family.Based on the family’s complaint, a case has been registered against the driver at the Bisrakh police station under sections 279 (rash driving) and 304A (causing death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code.“Efforts are on to trace the driver and we will nab him soon,” said the SSI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/biker-hit-by-speeding-luxury-car-dies-101621359794508.html
18-05-2021||Noida||Cyclone Tauktae’s impact: Noida to see good rainfall||Noida: The city on Tuesday witnessed light rain under the impact of cyclone Tauktae, which made landfall in Gujarat on Monday night, and after weakening considerably, is currently moving inwards towards the National Capital Region. The drizzling brought down the Noida’s maximum temperature by seven degrees Celsius to 30.6 degrees, with the India Meteorological Department (IMD) predicting good rainfall on Wednesday. According to IMD, the maximum temperature will hover around 30 degrees Celsius in the next two days. “Moderate rain at most places in northern region with isolated heavy rains over Delhi-NCR has been forecasted for Wednesday,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head of regional weather forecasting centre, IMD. An advisory issued by IMD said Tauktae and its remnants would interact with a western disturbance trough, creating an interaction zone. This weather phenomenon is likely to form above Delhi and adjoining areas, resulting in heavy rainfall in the region. According to weather analysts, there are chances of intense rainfall over parts of NCR, including Noida, as an induced effect of cyclonic circulation over northern Rajasthan. “Low pressure cyclonic circulation due to the induced effect of cyclone Tauktae will meet the western disturbance, leading to rain in the region. The effect is likely to last till May 20,” said Mahesh Palawat, vice-president (meteorology and climate change) at Skymet, a private weather forecasting agency. Cyclone Tauktae intensified into an “extremely severe cyclonic storm” and made landfall on Gujarat coast late Monday with wind speeds between 150kmph and 160kmph. On Tuesday, Noida recorded maximum and minimum temperatures at 30.6 degrees Celsius and 27.8 degrees Celsius respectively, against 37.7 degrees Celsius and 25.3 degrees Celsius a day earlier. At the Safdarjung monitoring station, considered average for the NCR, the maximum and minimum temperatures were recorded at 30.8 degrees Celsius -- nine degrees Celsius lower than the season’s average and 22.3 degrees Celsius, the season’s average, respectively. Meanwhile, the air quality of Noida, Greater Noida and Ghaziabad saw improvement on Tuesday. According to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), the air quality index (AQI) of Noida on Tuesday was 108 against 177 (both ‘moderate’) a day earlier. The AQI of Greater Noida was 79 (‘good’) against 202 (‘poor’) a day earlier, while Ghaziabad recorded an AQI of 122 (‘moderate’) on Tuesday against 238 (‘poor’) a day earlier. According to the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), the air quality is likely to improve in coming days. “Surface winds are southwesterly and moderate. Thunderstorms with gusty winds are likely at isolated places with isolated dust peaks for shorter time period. Overall AQI is forecasted to marginally improve and stay in the low end of moderate to satisfactory for next two days,” said a SAFAR statement on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/cyclone-tauktae-s-impact-noida-to-see-good-rainfall-101621359793883.html
18-05-2021||Other||UP varsities, schools to resume online classes from May 20||The state government has ordered to resume online classes for students of class 9 to 12 (secondary level) from May 20. The state and private universities across the Uttar Pradesh will also resume their online classes from May 20.However, under no circumstances, students will be allowed to come to campuses to attend physical classes. Vice chancellors and principals will use their discretion on calling teachers to campuses, an official said.Lucknow University Associated College Teachers Association (LUACTA) chief Manoj Pandey has appealed to principal of degree colleges to allow teachers to work from home till COVID-19 situation eases out.Lucknow University officials, in a virtual meeting held on Tuesday, decided that the online classes will commence from May 20. The weekly report of online classes by the heads will be submitted to the competent authority. New virtual platforms will be explored for the laboratory class. There will be addition of new e-resources to the Tagore Library to enrich the e-content, said LU spokesperson, Durgesh Srivastava.There was an extensive discussion on the common minimum syllabus of various courses recommended by the department of higher education, Uttar Pradesh. Few departments, education, commerce and agriculture have approved their syllabus by the board of studies after minor corrections. Other departments will approve their syllabus after the necessary amendments which can be maximum up to 30%.According to a letter issued to all vice-chancellors of state and private universities by Abdul Samad, special secretary, UP government, students may visit UP higher education digital Library where e-content on several important topics by faculty members have been uploaded.In case of student or teachers, who has reported negative for Covid-19, but has post Covid complications, the decision on participation in online classes will be taken by the vice chancellor, head of departments and principals as per the Covid-19 guidelines, said Abdul Samad in his order.The vice-chancellors had been asked to call 50% non-teaching staff on roaster basis.Likewise, the state government has instructed school management to make such arrangements for online teaching that majority of teaching work by teachers can be carried out from home.Special secretary, secondary education Jai Shankar Dubey. in a letter sent to chairman and secretary of UP board as well as to all district Inspector of schools (DIOSs), on Tuesday that online teaching should be strengthened in all schools affiliated to UP board using academic programmes and content being broadcast by Doordarshan and made available on e-gyan ganga YouTube channel of UP board and swayam prabha channel of union education ministry.The order states that the entire responsibility of ensuring proper functioning of online education in the district would be on DIOSs concerned. The divisional joint education directors would closely monitor the online education being provided.The order says that DIOS concerned would submit a weekly status report to divisional joint education director who in turn would send report to director, secondary education.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/up-varsities-schools-to-resume-online-classes-from-may-20-101621359733832.html
18-05-2021||Noida||Noida: Discom decides not to cut supply to defaulters||NOIDA: The power distribution company Pashchimanchal Vidyut Vitran Nigam Limited (PVVNL) has decided to stop the disconnection drive against around 50,000 Noida consumers who together had a total outstanding bill of over ₹200 crore. PVVNL (Noida) chief engineer, Virendra Nath Singh, said that the decision was taken to ensure uninterrupted power supply during the pandemic. “To make optimum use of our workforce in providing 24x7 power supply during this ongoing crisis, we have decided to cancel our disconnection drive against nearly 50,000 consumers, who owe over ₹200 crore... since last one year. The discom had already issued notices to them and they (still) didn’t make any payment,” he said. Of the 50,000 defaulters, over 1,500 had bills between ₹1 lakh and ₹20 lakh each, he said. “Similarly, we have 12,000 defaulters who have not cleared their dues of ₹50,000 to ₹99,000. The remaining defaulters have outstanding dues of ₹10,000 to ₹49,000,” he said. PVVNL has nearly 325,000 consumers in Gautam Budh Nagar. “Massive disconnection drive against these defaulters was carried out in the district in December last year. But, after getting the instruction from the energy minister, we decided to call it off,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-discom-decides-not-to-cut-supply-to-defaulters-101621359674995.html
18-05-2021||Other||New-born defeats Covid-19 after 18 days||MEERUT A 25- day-old baby boy defeated Covid-19 after struggling for life in a private hospital here for 18 days. The boy got infected 25 days after his birth on April 1 and was brought to Nutema hospital here on April 27 after brief treatment in hospitals in Hapur and Noida. His father Vikas Duhan said that after facing scarcity of oxygen and ventilator facility, the boy was finally shifted to Nutema hospital on April 27 where Dr Amit Upadhyay and his team treated him. Dr Upadhyay said that boy was suffering from acute pneumonia, fever and breathlessness. His RT- PCR and antigen tests were positive and lungs were heavily infected. He was given Remdesivir, heavy dose of steroids and drugs to pump up his blood pressure and a lot of platelets were also transfused. He was kept on ventilator for seven days and eventually he defeated the virus after 18 days and was discharged on May 13. Dr Amit said that the baby’s recovery showed that timely and proper treatment could overcome even acute corona infection. He said that the baby’s oxygen level was 50 on aided supply and even then, he survived with proper and timely treatment. The baby’s parents Vikas Duhan and Sarvesh Duhan expressed their gratitude to the Almighty and also the doctors for saving the life of the new-born. They said that the 18 days of the baby’s illness were full of stress for them. The entire family was praying for the life of the new-born who finally defeated the virus and infused hope in parents of other children battling the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/newborn-defeats-covid-19-after-18-days-101621358413884.html
18-05-2021||Chandigarh||HC asks govt to decide on complaints against DGP in three months||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Tuesday disposed of a petition filed by Haryana IPS officer Y Puran Kumar, seeking a restraining order against director general of police (DGP) Manoj Yadava to write his annual performance appraisal (APR) report.Kumar had sought the restraint order to write his APR till the time the complaints filed by him against the DGP are decided.The petitioner though on Tuesday contended before the HC that he is confining the prayer in this petition to the consideration of his complaints by additional chief secretary (home).Justice Anupinder Singh Grewal, of the high court, in his order, said that in view of the limited prayer of the counsel for the petitioner, the petition is disposed of with a direction to additional chief secretary (home) to consider and decide the complaints in accordance with law expeditiously, preferably within a period of three months from the date of receipt of certified copy of this order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hc-asks-govt-to-decide-on-complaints-against-dgp-in-three-months-101621358176313.html
18-05-2021||Other||Dip in new Covid cases leads to fall in demand of hospital beds on GT road belt||The number of empty hospital beds in Haryana’s GT road districts has gone up in Karnal following continuous fall in Covid-19 positive cases in the past few days.As per data of the district health department, of 465 non-ICU beds in 16 Covid hospitals in district, 88 are available. Of the 253 beds in the ICUs of these hospitals, 15 are unoccupied. Officials said that the number of empty beds is likely to increase further following the continued fall in cases.The district administration has created temporary arrangements of beds with oxygen support. But in the past one week, the situation has changed and there is no hue and cry for hospital beds. On May 7, only two unoccupied beds were left in the ICUs and 14 with oxygen support.Moreover, Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College and Hospital, which had once denied admitting patients due to non-availability of empty beds now has 15 beds available but all 110 beds in the ICU of the hospital are still occupied.Haryana’s GT road belt faced acute shortage of hospital beds earlier this month following sudden rise in cases, especially in Delhi-NCR and now there is fall in the movement of patients from Delhi.Karnal deputy commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav said, “The number of empty beds is going up in district as there is decline in cases and number of beds has also been increased.”“There is a considerable fall in movement of patients from Delhi. The number of patients from Delhi in district hospitals has come down from 45% to 25% earlier this month,” he added.Availability of hospital beds in nearby districts of Kurukhsetra and Panipat has also eased now.“In the past couple of days, there has been a considerable fall in the number of patients from Delhi as now 25% patients admitted in Karnal are from Delhi against the 40% of two weeks ago,” said a senior official of the health department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/dip-in-new-covid-cases-leads-to-fall-in-demand-of-hospital-beds-on-gt-road-belt-101621358114946.html
18-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt forms teams to identify migrant workers who want to return home||The state government has formed multiple teams across Delhi’s 11 districts to identify migrant workers who want to return to their home towns or villages due to the ongoing lockdown in order to make necessary arrangements for their travel, a senior Delhi government official said. The move comes after the Supreme Court on Thursday directed the Centre and the governments of Delhi, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh to provide dry ration and meals to labourers in the National Capital Region (NCR), as well as to ensure they have transportation if they wish to return home. The Delhi government has, to this effect, now directed districts to compile a list of workers who wish to go back home. “Each team comprises a revenue official, labour inspector and a police official. We have formed three to four teams in each district. The teams are visiting spots like construction sites to speak to migrant workers. We are asking people to register if they want to return home,” said a senior revenue department official aware of the matter . In south-west Delhi, officials are surveying all construction sites and clusters where a large population of migrant workers is present. “The labour department is telling us where the surveys should be conducted. So far, we have not come across anyone who wants to return home. Those who wanted to leave have already gone, since the railways and buses were operational during this lockdown,” said a senior revenue official. With the lockdown in Delhi gradually being extended, this time till May 24, migrant workers said they fear that the curbs may continue for a while. “Some people we met at the construction site didn’t want to go immediately but they said they might leave if the curbs are extended for a longer period,” said an official. Apart from the survey, the teams are also telling migrant workers about hunger relief centres made in each district to provide food to people. In East Delhi district too, officials said none of the workers they have spoken to said they want to return. “Our teams are going to construction sites, pockets where migrant labourers are staying. So far, no one has come forward. We will continue this exercise till the time lockdown is in place,” said a senior official. Officials managing the government’s helpline for migrant workers, which was made operational last year, said the number of calls increased after the Delhi lockdown was announced on April 19. “But a majority of callers are asking about financial assistance, renewal of their membership [for the construction workers board], and for such things,” said a helpline operator. The Delhi government has also asked those who have employed migrant workers in the past year to register with the labour department. “Every inter-state migrant worker will be issued a passbook by the contractor, which shall have details of employment and shall be provided other benefits as provided in the Inter-state Migrant Workmen (regulation of employment and condition of service) Act, 1979,” read the public notice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-forms-teams-to-identify-migrant-workers-who-want-to-return-home-101621358054681.html
18-05-2021||Other||Sirsa admn to rope in RMPs in its fight against Covid: Ranjit Chautala||The Sirsa administration has decided to rope in registered medical practitioners (RMPs) in its fight against the Covid-19 pandemic in rural areas.Sirsa is the first district in Haryana to rope in RMPs with the health department to combat spread of the virus.Haryana power and jails minister Ranjit Chautala said he had conducted a meeting with the district administration and asked the health officials to include RMPs to fight against the virus in villages.“We have decided to rope in RMPs after many villagers in rural areas of Sirsa complained of fever, cough, cold and breathlessness. Around 23,000 medical kits containing oximeter, thermometer and other equipment have been distributed in villages,” Chautala added.The power minister said he had donated ₹50 lakh to the Sirsa administration and ₹25 lakh to the Fatehabad administration in their fight against the virus.“We have urged the youth, volunteers and social organisations to help conduct health surveys, distributing medicines and medical kits. Our focus is to provide primary health facilities in the isolation centres built across district,” he said.“RMPS will be members of a group of health workers contacting residents in villages. They will report to the health authorities. People living in villages have bonding with RMPs and their cooperation will help in tracing the patients,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sirsa-admn-to-rope-in-rmps-in-its-fight-against-covid-ranjit-chautala-101621358054189.html
18-05-2021||Other||CBSE extends deadline, results of Class 10 to be delayed||New Delhi: The final results of the Class 10 students in schools affiliated to Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) through a revised assessment are all set to be delayed with the board extending the deadline for schools to submit marks of their students in view of the Covid-19 situation across the country. Earlier, the board asked the schools to submit the marks by June 5. The deadline has now been extended till June 30. In view of this, the results which were going to be announced by June 20, will now be delayed. This year, the board exams for Class 10 were cancelled as the country was reeling under an unprecedented second wave of Covid-19. Instead, the board announced a revised assessment method to evaluate the students. The Delhi government’s education department on May 5 requested the CBSE to review its timeline for the Class 10 results as several teachers employed at government school were engaged in Covid duties and many of them tested positive for the infection.In a notice issued on Tuesday, CBSE controller of examination Sanyam Bhardwaj said, “Keeping in view the pandemic situation, lockdown in states and safety of teachers, and other staff members of the affiliated schools, CBSE has decided to extend dates.”The CBSE portal for the uploading of marks will now open from Thursday. Board officials, however, denied commenting on the next possible date for the announcement of the result. “The board will inform once the next date will be decided,” an official said. Under the revised marking scheme for Class 10 students will be evaluated based on their performance in unit tests, half-yearly examination, and pre-board examination conducted by schools. Along with tabulation of scores, the board also directed schools that if any candidate has not appeared in any of the assessments conducted by the school, it may conduct an offline/online or a telephonic one-on-one assessment.Delhi government’s education department officials welcomed CBSE’s decision.“The extension will give proper time to schools to calculate marks and upload them without any errors. It won’t affect the academic session for Class 11 as well. While the majority of the private schools have already started their academic session for Class 11, it will begin in the government schools from the first week of July,” said a senior department official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cbseextends-deadline-results-of-class-10-to-be-delayed-101621357933847.html
18-05-2021||Chandigarh||Protest over shifting ventilators: Court orders accused to make contribution to Covid care fund||Granting bail to four Nuh residents accused of assaulting and obstructing government officials from doing their duty, a Mewat court on Monday ordered the accused to deposit ₹5,000 each in the Red Cross Fund of the Nuh deputy commissioner under the Covid care head.In his order, additional sessions judge (ASJ), Mewat, Prashant Rana said the exemplary cost is being imposed on the accused so that in future, no person obstructs work of frontline workers during the pandemic and the damage caused by the accused in delaying transportation of ventilators is compensated to some extent by their contributions towards Covid treatment of citizens.As per court orders, allegations against the accused were that they objected to shifting of 10 ventilators from Shaheed Hasan Khan Mewati (SHKM) Government Medical College, Nalhar to Rewari and Palwal.The accused were arrested for allegedly rioting, armed with deadly weapon, wrongful restraint, assault to deter public servant from duty, attempt to murder, negligent and malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life, criminal intimidation on May 4.“The ventilators were being shifted on government orders. Apparently, the accused obstructed shifting of ventilators and a few of the accused pelted stones. Three police officers received injuries. No property was damaged, as told by the investigating officer present in the court. No injury dangerous to life, was suffered by any person. Also, the allegations of snatching by causing hurt or wrongful restrained, are not made out,” the court said.“Which of the accused inflicted the stone injury, is doubtful? Around 70 accused are there, and five injuries were caused. Prima facie, attempt to murder and snatching is not made out at this stage. Apparently, offence committed by applicants was obstruction in official duties. The accused have no criminal antecedents. They are in custody since May 4. The trial of the case will take time and no purpose will be served, if the accused are further kept in custody. The accused deserve to be enlarged on bail,” the ASJ court said.The ASJ said conduct of the accused in obstructing shifting of ventilators to other districts, however, is not only prima-facie illegal but also highly unethical.“They may have done the said obstruction on account of sentiments towards their district. However, in times of pandemic, regionalism should not prevail in the mind of any citizen. Since the accused delayed shifting of ventilators to other districts, for two hours, they deserve to be rectified by way of appropriate costs,” ASJ Rana said.Allowing their bail application, the court said the accused will be released from custody subject to their furnishing personal bonds of ₹50,000 each.“They will also deposit ₹5,000 each in the Red Cross Fund under the Covid care head and the duty magistrate will issue the release warrants after receipt of Red Cross contribution by the accused, the court said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/protest-over-shifting-ventilators-court-orders-accused-to-make-contribution-to-covid-care-fund-101621357875277.html
18-05-2021||Other||Sonu Sood, Kumar Vishwas back poet’s Covid care campaign||Lucknow Bollywood actor Sonu Sood and noted poet Kumar Vishwas have supported the campaign ‘Aao Gaon Bachayein’ started by comic poet and satirist Pankaj Prasun. Under the campaign, residents of 30 villages in six gram panchayat blocks of Rae Bareli district would be provided Covid medicines, oximeters, thermometers and ration kits along with oxygen support in Covid care centres. Poet Pankaj Prasun said, “ I tagged my tweet for need of oxygen concentrators for rural masses to Sonu Sood and Dr Kumar Vishwas. The latter retweeted it, saying ‘Sonu Sood, please send three oxygen concentrators for the poor or else I will arrange from Ghaziabad.’ Within a few minutes Sonu Sood tweeted: ‘ Be assured , it will reach! Just send me your address (samjho pahunch gaya , aap pata bhejo).’” He said, “I was surprised to see a busy Bollywood actor reacting to our tweets within five minutes. You all know there is only one L3 hospital in Rae Bareli. There is a long wait in other hospitals which are either L1 or L2. But during Covid everyone has felt the importance of oxygen in saving lives. That’s why these oxygen concentrators would be very important for the rural masses. “ He said , “I turned Covid positive on April 7 during which time I realized how difficult it is to get treated for Covid . During the recovery I kept on thinking about the way I can help those who are living in rural areas, and I came up with this idea.” He said, “With limited resources we have selected six gram sabhas of Sahjaura, Lohra, Raula, Domapur, Mustafabad Belhani, Mau Garvi, Govindpur and Merui under which around 32 villages would be covered. We will request the authorities to allow panchayat bhawans and schools for Covid care centres, from where we can distribute our ration kits, medicine kits , thermometers, oximeters and provide oxygen.” Pankaj Prasun said, “When I tweeted to Kumar Vishwas for help, he immediately responded by donating Covid care kits for the campaign. He said the real ‘dharma’ of poets was service and that his team would remain in contact with me.” Dr Kumar Vishwas said , “ It’s an honour to serve humanity. I will be happy to do more for the rural masses with Pankaj Prasun and Sonu Sood.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sonu-sood-kumar-vishwas-back-poet-s-covid-care-campaign-101621357822104.html
18-05-2021||Chandigarh||124 more Covid fatalities reported in Haryana||Haryana on Tuesday recorded 7,774 fresh Covid-19 cases while 124 people succumbed to the virus even as 14,897 recovered in the last 24 hours across state, according to the health bulletin.Faridabad has the highest recovery rate of 94.03% and Fatehabad the lowest of 79.42%. The recovery rate of seven districts in state is above 90%. On Tuesday, the recovery rate of Gurugram was 88.19%, lower than the cumulative recovery rate of the state (88.33%).In past last 24 hours, 60,457 samples were taken in state. Of the 7,774 fresh cases, Gurugram recorded the highest of 1,247 new cases, Faridabad 429, Sonepat 408, Hisar 630, Ambala 178, Karnal 377, Panipat 154, Rohtak 325, Rewari 280, Panchkula 270, Kurukshetra 164, Yamunanagar 317, Sirsa 691, Mahendergarh 298, Bhiwani 530, Jhajjar 452, Palwal 262, Fatehabad 174, Kaithal 74, Jind 332, Nuh 55 and Charkhi Dadri 127.The highest of 14 people died in Gurugram, 10 each in Hisar and Karnal, eight each in Faridabad, Ambala and Rewari, nine in Jind, and six in Charkhi Dadri.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/124-more-covid-fatalities-reported-in-haryana-101621357821609.html
18-05-2021||Delhi||Covid-19 vaccination for youth to halt from next week due to shortage: Delhi govt||Delhi government on Tuesday said Covid-19 vaccination for adults in the age bracket of 18-44 years will be halted from next week due to the shortage of shots in the national capital. Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader Atishi announced that the vaccination process for the youth would have to be paused starting next week as the city is left with Covishield's stock for only three more days while Covaxin is already out of stock. Centres administering vaccines to the youth will be temporarily shut from next week, she added.Also read| Vaccines to be ‘at least partially’ protective against variant from India: Fauci"For the 18-44 age bracket, we have been reiterating a number of times in the past few days that Covaxin’s stock is almost over, and Covishield’s stock is left only for 3 days. We can vaccinate those between 18-44 only for the next 3 days, that is until this week only. Starting the next week, vaccination for the youth will be halted due to shortage of vaccines," Atishi said while presenting the vaccination bulletin during the video address.She appealed to the Centre to provide sufficient vaccine doses for the people in the age bracket of 18-44 years citing the critical impact of the second wave of the pandemic on the younger generation.Atishi also praised the Centre for supplying a fresh stock of 60,240 doses of Covaxin on Tuesday for people aged above 45 years, healthcare and frontline workersAlso read: Will my Covid-19 vaccine first dose effect last for 6 months? Experts say yesAtishi made a humble appeal to the centre to supply sufficient vaccines for those between the 18-44 age group as the second wave saw a lot of young people getting critical, and their vaccination is imperative to protect people. After the new supply, Covaxin's stock for people over the age of 45 years and healthcare and frontline workers is left for two days, while Covishield's stock will last for four days."A meagre population of 7 lakh youth between 18-44 have been inoculated with the first dose. Hence, it is a humble request to the centre to supply sufficient vaccines for the 18-44 segment as well at the earliest," she said.Also read| UP CM Yogi Adityanath's approach to battle second wave of Covid-19: Key pointsRegarding the Delhi government's efforts to boost the vaccination drive in the national capital Atishi said that walk-ins for those over the age of 45 years have commenced on Monday in nearly 100 government schools, and more such centres will take walk-ins. The initiative has been taken since a lot of people do not have smartphones or are not equipped to do the online registration process.113,142 vaccine doses were administered on May 17, of which over 67,000 were administered to people in the age group of 18-44 years and 45,655 doses were given to people over 45, health care workers and frontline workers. A total of 4,694,970 have received a vaccine dose in Delhi so far, of which more than 1 million are fully vaccinated with both shots and over 3.6 million have received their first dose of the vaccine, the AAP leader informed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covid19-vaccination-for-youth-to-halt-from-next-week-due-to-shortage-delhi-govt-101621348789919.html
18-05-2021||Other||Body of woman who died of Covid goes missing from Lok Nayak mortuary, family files police complaint||New Delhi: For the last 11 days, a family from east Delhi has been running from pillar to post in search for the body of a 38-year-old woman, who died of Covid-19 at Lok Nayak hospital on April 16, but her last rites could not be performed because all family members were also infected and they could not visit the hospital’s mortuary for 20 days.When the family members went to claim the body on May 7, it could not be found in the mortuary. They approached the police and filed a complaint on May 10, alleging that the body was misplaced and the hospital authorities have no answers to how the corpse disappeared from the mortuary.“We are taking a legal opinion on the family’s complaint. The hospital authorities are also conducting an enquiry. We are waiting for their enquiry report also. Further legal action would be taken accordingly. The patient was taken to the hospital by family members but she was declared brought dead on April 16. Her family members were also Covid positive so they could not claim the body then,” said Rohit Meena, additional deputy commissioner of police (central). Dr Suresh Kumar, medical director, Lok Nayak hospital, said. “A committee of three senior doctors, the additional medical superintendent, mortuary in-charge, and another senior doctor, has been set up to look into the matter. We will be able to tell what happened once the committee submits its report in a couple of days.”The two brothers of the dead woman, Dipika, were present in the hospital when the doctors pronounced her dead and had seen her body while it was being shifted to the mortuary. But the disappearance of her body has strangely led to some of her relatives believe that she could be alive.“My parents and some relatives still believe that a miracle would happen and Dipika would return home alive. My heart also wishes for that miracle, even as my mind says she is gone,” said Dipika’s brother, Saurabh Kumar.Dipika lived with her parents and brothers at their Shastri Nagar home near Geeta Colony in east Delhi. She ran a consultancy firm along with her brother Siddharth Kumar. The coronavirus hit the family in the first week of April.According to Kumar, his parents were shifted to a private hospital in east Delhi but she could not get a bed in at least four local hospitals because of the huge rush of patients. Dipika got a bed in a private non-Covid hospital in Noida but as her Covid test report came positive and her condition was deteriorating, she was referred to any Covid hospital, he said.“We brought her to Lok Nayak hospital. The doctors declared her brought dead. Her body was shifted to the mortuary and we were asked to claim it in two-three days. But we could not come as all of us were Covid positive and our condition was not good,” said Kumar.The parents recovered and returned home on April 23, but the two brothers informed them about Dipika’s death only on May 4, as they did not want to give them a shock. The elderly couple then asked their sons to claim her body and perform the last rites.“We went to the hospital mortuary on May 7 and received Dipika’s death certificate. The hospital staff asked us to visit the mortuary and identify my sister’s body, as that was the last opportunity to see her face. Many bodies were shown to us but none of them was of my sister. Her corpse was missing. They sought time to look into the matter and asked us to come two-three days later,” he said.The family members visited the hospital again on May 10. When they were told that the body could be found, they filed a police complaint.“We first lost our sister and now because of the hospital’s mistake we are not able to perform her last rites. The hospital authorities say that there was a possibility that some other family may have cremate my sister’s body. I want them to find that family so that we can thank them for performing her last rites. But the authorities are not able to find the family as well,” added Kumar.According to another doctor from the hospital, “It is not unusual for family members to not claim bodies of people who die of Covid-19. In such instances, the hospital ensures that the cremation is done. In this case, the family came looking for the body almost a month after the demise.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/body-of-woman-who-died-of-covid-goes-missing-from-lok-nayak-mortuary-family-files-police-complaint-101621357454400.html
18-05-2021||Other||Covid impact: MSMEs want temporary closure of units||Lucknow: With all economic activity coming to a standstill due to corona curfew, the MSMEs also want to close their units till the situation normalizes, as production has been adversely affected. Though the state government has exempted industrial activity from corona curfew , production and maintenance work has been affected in almost all units. Industrial lobby bodies have also pointed out that the state government has not accepted some of their demands, making it tough for them to continue running their units. “As transport services are off the roads, industries are finding it difficult to procure raw material and send finished products to stockists,” said Manmohan Agarwal, senior vice president, Indian Industries Association (IIA). “We have requested the state government to exempt transport companies from the purview of corona curfew. Unless offices of transport companies are allowed to open, there will be no movement of trucks on roads. In such a scenario, industries cannot be run,” Agarwal added. “If the situation continues like this, we will be left with no option but to shut down our units till the situation normalises,” he added. Industrialists pointed out that units in Noida were working at minimum capacity. A disrupted supply chain and low work force have reduced production to bare minimum at industrial units in Noida, Meerut and some other parts of the state. “The government has issued a GO (government order) permitting industrial activity even in this second wave of Covid-19. But workers have left for their homes, fearing the pandemic,” said Rajiv Bansal, national secretary, IIA. He pointed out that the workforce had shrunk to 5000 from 50,000 in Noida even when factories were not shut. As all shops are closed except for those related with essential items, industrialists are finding it hard to get maintenance work done in their units if there is any technical problem. “We have also requested the government to allow all essential shops related with industries to open at least for two days in a week so that maintenance work may be carried out, if required,” pointed out Bansal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid-impact-msmes-want-temporary-closure-of-units-101621357453808.html
18-05-2021||Chandigarh||Over 10 lakh villagers screened in Haryana||At least 10 lakh villagers have been screened across state under the Haryana villagers’ general health check-up scheme launched in the wake of Covid-19 causing upheavals in the hinterland, the state government said on Tuesday.On Monday, 2.54 lakh people were screened. In 2,095 villages across state, rapid antigen tests were conducted and 2,958 persons were found Covid positive.The state government has dispatched about 2,500 teams to villages to screen people.Chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, who on Monday held an emergency meeting with top bureaucrats to fine tune the response to contain the spread of the virus in rural areas, directed deputy commissioners (DCs) to undertake the campaign on a war footing.While directing the administration to mop up all resources to take the challenge head-on, the CM said, “The pandemic will not be allowed to spread its wings in villages.”He said that an atmosphere of positivity needs to be fostered in villages and the state government should not fall short of contributing to it.While directing that there should be no slackness in the door-to-door screening of Covid patients, the CM directed that adequate infrastructure should be in place to treat patients to prevent further spread of the virus.Khattar, who is personally monitoring the day-to-day situation, has also directed strict adherence to the ‘test, track and treat’ strategy to combat the threat under which patients with mild to moderate symptoms are put under home isolation.Besides, multi-disciplinary teams comprising trainee doctors, asha workers and anganwadi workers have been rushed to the ground to make sure that every villager is taken care of.The government has decided to set up an isolation centre in every village for which dharmashalas, government schools and Ayush centres can be used and equipped with all essential infrastructures.Every gram panchayat with a population of up to 10,000 will be given ₹30,000 each whereas those above 10,000 population will receive ₹50,000 each for making basic arrangements.Over 1.5 lakh rapid antigen test kits have been distributed and the CM has directed that supply of kits should continue uninterrupted.AMBULANCE RATESThe spokesperson said similar strict action has been taken against private ambulance drivers who are overcharging from patients. He said that rates have also been fixed for them.As per fixed rates, ₹30/km has been fixed for advance life sport ambulance, ₹15/km for basic life sport ambulance.Besides this, a fare of ₹500 has been fixed for the local area distance of 10km.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/over-10-lakh-villagers-screened-in-haryana-101621356374418.html
18-05-2021||Pune||Dist collector regulates supply of medicine for Mucormycosis||Pune: Following the rise in cases of post-Covid disease Mucormycosis in the district, Pune district collector Rajesh Deshmukh has directed the supply of Amphotericin B, drug used to treat the disease, under the control of collectorate.A control room has been set up at the collectorate from May 18 to regulate the supply and distribution of Amphotericin B. The step has been taken to prevent the black-marketing of the anti-fungal drug. Distributors of the injection have been ordered to inform the district administration about available stock. All hospitals have been asked to inform officials about the number of patients undergoing Mucormycosis treatment, available injection stock, and demand. Flying squads have been constituted in the district to check appropriate distribution, sale at approved price and use by hospitals of Amphotericin B.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/dist-collector-regulates-supply-of-medicine-for-mucormycosis-101621355594682.html
18-05-2021||Pune||Paper leak case: Lt.Col rank officer remanded to police custody||The lieutenant colonel-rank officer arrested by Pune police on Monday from Secunderabad in Army recruitment question paper leak case was remanded to police custody by a court in Pune on Tuesday. Bhagat Preetsingh Sartajsingh Bedi (44) was remanded to police custody till May 25 by Additional Sessions Judge SR Navander. His arrest was made after a storekeeper from Delhi Cantonment, Vira Prasad Kotiswamy (41), who was arrested on May 15, revealed that the officer had sent him the paper, according to Laxman Borate, assistant commissioner of police (ACP), crime, Pune police. Kotiswamy is also in police custody. “An internal inquiry was conducted by the Indian Army and then he was handed over to us. They have given us a phone that he owned but that is not the one he used to send the question paper. We have to recover that phone,” said ACP Borate. Explaining the reason for seeking remand, Public Prosecutor Premkumar Agarwal claimed that the officer had breached protocol that required him to not use his phone. “He was the presiding officer on the committee that decides on the matters related to the question paper. A CD is provided to the presiding officer and the password is also provided to open the CD. Use of phone is not expected in this process. He used his phone and sent the question paper,” said PP Agarwal. However, defence advocate Sudhir Shah claimed that the name of the officer had failed to appear in the chargesheet in the case. “The case was registered on March 1. The chargesheet has been filed. But his name is not come in it,” said Advocate Shah. Two cases were registered on March 1 based on the police action that resulted in cancellation of the recruitment exam on February 28 at 40 centers for 30,000 aspirants. While one case was at Vishrantwadi police station, the other one was at Wanowrie police station. The chargesheet in Vishrantwadi case was presented to court on April 27 while the one in Wanowrie case was presented in April 30, according to the police. Kotiswamy and Lt Col Bedi have both been arrested in the case registered at Wanowrie police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/paper-leak-case-lt-col-rank-officer-remanded-to-police-custody-101621354213686.html
18-05-2021||Pune||PMC floats fresh tenders for ₹134-cr Singhad road flyover project||Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has floated fresh tenders for the flyover project on Sinhgad road. The civic body had earlier suspended the tendering forthe project after private contractors came up with higher quotes than the civic body’s budget estimation of ₹117 crore. The fresh tender is ₹134 crore. PMC city engineer (projects) Sriniwas Bonala said, “Fresh tender advertisement has been released for the construction of the flyover. The plan cost based on last two years’ estimation is around ₹134 crore, including GST, royalty and other charges. A budgetary provision of ₹17.05 crore has been made for the work this year.” he said. PMC proposed the flyover project after demands from residents and elected representatives who raised increasing traffic problems on the arterial road connecting suburban areas Hingne Khurd, Anandnagar, Vadgaon Budruk, Vadgaon Dhayari, Narhe, Ambegaon Budruk, Nanded City and Khadakwasla. According to PMC, the Bengaluru-Mumbai bypass puts additional burden on the road. According to PMC, the project’s first phase includes a 2.5km-long proposed flyover between Rajaram bridge and Fun Time Multiplex at Vadgaon Budruk. The flyover, once completed, would streamline traffic flow on Sinhgad road and provide direct access to commuters exiting Pune and those entering the city through Sinhgad road junction and going towards Swargate Chowk area. According to the engineering department, the flyover will have two wings with two lanes each and the wing for traffic towards Vadgaon Budruk will begin after Rajaram bridge chowk while the other wing for commuters travelling to Swargate from Vadgaon Budruk will start from Indian Hume Pipes junction. Corporator Manjusha Nagpure said, “We constantly followed up the plan with the government and ensured that the standing committee sanction finance to the effect in its budget. With fresh tenders issued, the work will be completed soon.” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-floats-fresh-tenders-for-rs-134-cr-singhad-road-flyover-project-101621353493623.html
18-05-2021||Other||Warkari sentiment leans towards pilgrimage not being cancelled this year||PUNE With the Covid-19 pandemic bringing everything in the state to a standstill, the warkari (pilgrim) community is worried about the forthcoming wari (pilgrimage) in June.The 2020 wari was cancelled and initial talks have begun between the Alandi Devsthan committee and warkari organisations about 2021.Every year, millions of pilgrims walk from Dehu and Alandi to Pandharpur, all devotees of Sant Tukaram and Sant Dnyaneshwar. Statues of both these saints were taken by bus to Pandharpur last year, with only few warkaris on board. “Last year, it was a major exception and we all understood the seriousness of cancelling the ari and not gathering millions of people together. A similar situation has occured now, but there is a strong feeling from various Warkari organisations and groups that this year, the walking tradition should be continued. With all the restrictions and rules of the government, we are ready to go to Pandharpur walking, but it should not be cancelled,” said Rajabhau Chopdar, president, Chopdar foundation and one of the organisers of the Sant Dnyaneshwar Pakhi.Before the pandemic, annually at least 0.4 million warkaris join several dindis (groups) with the Sant Dnyaneshwar and Sant Tukaram palkhis, which start from Alandi and Dehu, respectively. There are around 250 registered dindis which follow the palkhi on its way to Pandharpur. Dindis from across Maharashtra start coming to Alandi and Dehu a week before. Anil Maharaj Gawade, head of a dindi from Satara district, said, “Warkari community is always been patient and follows all the rules and regulations given by the state. The wari itself is so well planned and disciplined that there is no need to give any instructions to warkaris. The sentiment is that the tradition should continue, with a limited number set by the government.”Recently, an online meeting was held by both the Alandi and Dehu Mandir trust members, with leaders of the warkari community. An official meeting is to be held with the state government officials now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/warkari-sentiment-leans-towards-pilgrimage-not-being-cancelled-this-year-101621353013630.html
18-05-2021||Ranchi||Fake FB account of Jharkhand DGP created, case lodged||A fake Facebook account of Jharkhand director general of police (DGP) Neeraj Sinha was detected on Tuesday, police said, adding that a case was lodged at Ranchi’s Dhurwa police station in this regard and investigation has been initiated to track down the cyber frauds behind the move. According to police, the cyber frauds created the account by using the DGP’s photographs and sent friend requests to many people through it. Jharkhand police spokesperson Amol Homkar said, “An FIR has been lodged with Dhurwa police station in this regard. An investigation is on and legal action will be ensured against whoever is found guilty.”Few people also claimed to have received messages through Facebook messenger from the fake account, seeking money. As soon as the DGP got information about the fake account, he urged people to ignore any such friend requests or messages. “I have been told that someone has created a fake Facebook account using my photograph and is sending friend requests, and messages... Please ignore such friend requests/messages,” he wrote on the social media site.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/fake-fb-account-of-jharkhand-dgp-created-case-lodged-101621352713695.html
18-05-2021||Ranchi||Almost half of PM Cares ventilators faulty, RIMS doc tells PM Modi||A senior doctor at the state’s premiere hospital Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) in Ranchi on Monday apprised Prime Minister Narendra Modi about the condition of 100 ventilators received through the PM Cares Fund, saying that almost half of them were faulty, during a meeting through video conferencing with the PM.Dr Pradip Bhattacharya, head of trauma centre at RIMS, was among the nine doctors participating from across the nation in the meeting. During the meeting, the critical care expert informed the PM about their journey so far in the ongoing battle with Covid-19, that included treatment of about 2,000 patients at the facility, besides limitations in terms of equipment and manpower. “I informed him about our work and also the difficulties we faced during the period. We have received 100 ventilators through the PM Cares Fund, besides oxygen concentrators and high flow equipment. While the other equipment are working fine, 45 of 100 ventilators could not be used due to technical faults,” said Dr Bhattacharya. Following this, the Prime Minister’s Office swung into action with Dr Dr Bhattacharya receiving a phone call from the former soon after the meeting ended. “I was asked for the details of the nature of snag the ventilators developed. I shared all details with them,” Dr Bhattacharya said. The RIMS doctor, however, said the faulty machines did not have an immediate impact on the health care system at the centre, as there were already around 100 functional ventilators at the hospital.Besides, he also apprised the PM about manpower shortage at the state government’s institution and suggested ways to meet the crisis by training science stream graduates. “Paramedical and support staff are key in running the institutions. We need at least three to four times more support staff here than we currently have. I suggested that we can utilise science graduates as support staff after three weeks’ training,” Dr Bhattacharya said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/almost-half-of-pm-cares-ventilators-faulty-rims-doc-tells-pm-modi-101621352654195.html
18-05-2021||Pune||Kamala Nehru hospital diagnostic lab overcharge for scans, allege residents||Pune: Those visiting the private diagnostic lab set up at Kamala Nehru Hospital premises have complained to Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) regarding overcharging for HRCT (high resolution CT) test. They claim that the lab charges ₹2,500 per scan for Covid patients and ₹3, 00 for other cases. PMC has fixed the rate between ₹1,500 – ₹1,600 for these scans. The civic administration, under the then municipal commissioner Kunal Kumar, has set up the centre to providing facilities like X-ray, blood tests and other scans at affordable costs to residents. According to the complaint, the lab has been overcharging for scans since the past 18 months. Corporator Ravindra Dhangekar said, “The space for setting up the diagnostic lab has been provided by the hospital and PMC pays for its cleanliness and power bills. So, the lab has to provide services as per the affordable cost suggested by PMC. The health department is indifferent to the cause of the citizens and has paid little attention towards the issue.” PMC assistant health superintendent Dr Sanjeev Wavare said, “We have received the complaint that the lab is overcharging from patients despite our directions. We are looking into the compliant and strict action will be taken if the inquiry finds any anomaly.” Meanwhile, the lab incharge, who did not wish to be named, said, “We are charging as per PMC rates. We even forego the scan charges on compassionate grounds if the patient is poor.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/kamala-nehru-hospital-diagnostic-lab-overcharge-for-scans-allege-residents-101621352653655.html
18-05-2021||Other||Wheat procurement poor, deadline extended till June 15||PATNADissatisfied over the tardy pace of wheat procurement, chief minister Nitish Kumar on Tuesday directed the cooperative department to extend the deadline for procurement by 15 more days so that the benefits of minimum support price (MSP) reached the maximum number of farmers in the state. Earlier, May 31 was fixed as the deadline for wheat procurement. However, the primary agriculture cooperative societies and Vyapar Mandals, the agencies authorised to purchase wheat from farmers on the MSP, could meet barely 13% of the procurement target of 7 lakh metric tonnes. “As on Tuesday, the agencies have procured nearly 91,000 MTs of wheat. We hope to procure nearly 2 lakh MTs in the next couple of weeks,” cooperative department secretary Bandana Preyashi said after the CM’s review on wheat procurement. The food and consumer protection department (FCPD), in consultation with agriculture and cooperative departments, had upgraded the wheat procurement target from 1 lakh MT to 7 lakh MT in view of huge registrations by farmers and frequent reports about distress selling by them. “However, abysmally slow pace of procurement highlights gap between words and action of the government. Farmers are being compelled to sell wheat at throwaway prices,” said Raj Kumar Sharma, head of the farmers’ wing of Bihar Congress. Officials said the CM had to intervene after he was informed that only 15,000 out of total registered 1.70 crore farmers could avail of the benefits of MSP so far. “The state produced around 65 lakh MTs of wheat this season against 60 lakh MT last year,” said agriculture secretary N Saravana Kumar. Preyashi, however, defended the progress in procurement, saying it was being done in difficult times when the state has been devastated by the Covid-19 pandemic. “Last year, only 4,000 MTs of wheat could be procured,” she said. Vijay Kumar Mishra, a marginal farmer of Bikramganj in Rohtas, said farmers were disappointed as primary agriculture credit societies (PACS) were not purchasing wheat, citing cash crisis. “In the absence of official procurement, farmers are being forced to sell wheat to local middlemen at ₹1,200-1,500 per quintal, much lower than the MSP, which is over ₹1,700,” said Mishra. A senior officer FCPD said the maximum procurement was recorded in Kaimur, where farmers sold around 7,113 MTs of wheat to Pacs, followed by Rohtas (6,644 MT) and Begusarai (6,535 MT)). Arwal and Sheikhpura are the worst performing districts, recording procurement of 334 MT and 337 MT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/wheat-procurement-poor-deadline-extended-till-june-15-101621352593583.html
18-05-2021||Other||TDP to boycott budget session of Andhra assembly on Thursday||Telugu Desam Party, the only opposition party in the Andhra Pradesh state legislative assembly, on Tuesday, announced that it would boycott the one-day budget session of the assembly on May 20 in protest against the “unilateral, undemocratic and illogical” decisions of the YS Jagan Mohan Reddy government.The decision was taken at the Telugu Desam Legislature Party (TDLP) meeting held under the leadership of party president and former chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu through video conference.Speaking to reporters at the party office in Guntur later, TDP state unit president and MLA K Atchannaidu said the party decided to boycott the budget session in protest against the misrule of the Jagan government. “We are not boycotting the assembly but the chief minister’s high-handed behaviour,” he said.The TDP leader pointed out that the budget session of Parliament and that of several state assemblies were held in March itself when the Covid-19 pandemic was not so severe. “We asked the chief minister to hold the budget session but he did not do it. Now, the second wave is very severe but the government wants to hold it only because of Constitutional obligation,” he said.The TDLP decided to hold a parallel mock assembly simultaneously with the state assembly session to expose the failures and misdeeds of the Jagan regime all through. Former finance minister and MLC Yanamala Ramakrishnudu said that the government had no intention of holding a meaningful discussion in the assembly on public issues like Covid-19. “Even if the TDP attends the session, the chief minister and his ministers would not give any chance for them to speak in the House. As usual, the YSRC would bulldoze and suppress the voice of the Opposition,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tdp-to-boycott-budget-session-of-andhra-assembly-on-thursday-101621352534401.html
18-05-2021||Other||86 inmates in Goaplganj jail found infected||PATNAAround 86 inmates of Chanave jail in Gopalganj district of Bihar have tested positive for coronavirus, leading to panic among jail staff and the 2000-odd inmates the prison houses. Over 150 inmates took TrueNat tests on Monday and 86 of them were found infected, officials said. Jail superintendent Amit Kumar said medicines had been provided to the infected inmates and if required, they will be shifted to the nearest Covid Care Centre. “We have sought directives from the prison directorate for shifting the prisoners to other jails,” Kumar said, adding the remaining inmates would be tested in a day or two. Jail doctor Awinash said the infected inmates have been isolated in a special ward and medical staff deputed there. On May 8, the Supreme Court issued prison decongestion instructions 8 and ordered immediate release of all prisoners who were granted bail or parole due to the pandemic last year. It also directed that high-powered committees consider release of new prisoners in accordance with the National Legal Services Authority’s guidelines on the issue. While some of the states have released prisoners on parole, considering the scenario arising out of Covid-19 outbreak, the Bihar government hasn’t.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/86-inmates-in-goaplganj-jail-found-infected-101621352473614.html
18-05-2021||Other||Court keeps up heat: Will go down to every district||PATNAThe Patna High Court on Tuesday said it would now go down to every district and subdivision to see how many primary health centres (PHCs) are functional and whether they have adequate infrastructure and testing facilities in the light of the revised guidelines issued by the Centre to tackle spread of Covid-19 infection in rural areas. Hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) on Covid management in Bihar, the bench of Chief Justice Sanjay Karol and Justice Sanjay Kumar asked Advocate General Lalit Kishore if his office had been provided with two technical persons with proficiency in computers, as directed on Monday, as the court would require information in a tabular form for every district. In fresh guidelines two days ago, the Centre had underlined the need to enable communities, strengthen primary level health care infrastructure and initiate active surveillance by training community health officers for rapid antigen testing and counselling to intensify Covid-19 response in these areas. The AG said that the government would examine to what extent it can follow the guidelines of the Centre on its own, as it could also have financial implications. Expert committee report The bench also sought to know the action taken on the recommendations of the three-member expert committee, constituted by the Centre on the directive of the Patna HC to examine the status of oxygen supply in the hospitals. The bench was informed that the Patna Medical College and Hospital (PMCH) had taken corrective measures in the light of some adverse remarks by the committee, especially with regard to oxygen audit. Appearing for the PMCH, PK Shahi said that by the first week of June, PMCH would have its own oxygen generation capacity to cater to around 2,000 patients. The court sought affidavit regarding the current status in big hospitals mentioned in the report. Bio-waste disposal The bench directed the Patna Municipal Corporation (PMC) to file a detailed affidavit regarding bio-waste collection/disposal and steps taken for sensitization of the people. Former additional solicitor general SD Sanjay also raised the issue of delay in issue of death certificates. The bench said the issue of death registration was already being looked into and government would give its detailed reply. The court had on Monday expressed its displeasure over apparent inconsistency in figures of death in Buxar provided in the affidavits filed by the Patna division commissioner and the chief secretary and sought the figures of the entire district to be furnished since March 1. The court said that this would apply to all the districts of the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/court-keeps-up-heat-will-go-down-to-every-district-101621352418688.html
18-05-2021||Other||Covid vultures: 4 more arrested in Nalanda, turned over to Delhi cops||PATNAFour persons were arrested in Nalanda Tuesday during the ongoing crackdown by a joint team of Delhi Police and local police on rackets involved in duping hapless kin of Covid-19 patients in the name of providing oxygen cylinders and drugs.So far, 12 people have been arrested from Nalanda alone. According to police, the suspects posed as self-help groups on social media and offered medicines, oxygen and hospital beds to lure potential victims.According to Nalanda superintendent of police Hariprasath S, the four arrested on Tuesday were identified as Mithlesh Kumar, Deepak Kumar, Sharawan Mahto and Pankaj Kumar. He said 13 ATM cards, nine cellphones, a laptop and ₹20,000 in cash was seized from them. The matter came to light when one Sharad Chandran of Dwarika Vihar in Delhi lodged a complaint on May 4 with the Delhi Police, alleging he was duped of ₹23, 950 unidentified people selling oxygen cylinders. He said he transferred the money to the accused, but the latter started ignoring his calls and messages. The SP said the Delhi Police team had been camping in Nalanda for the last three days. The police said most of the SIM cards used by the accused were registered in West Bengal but their locations showed at Nalanda, Nawada, Sheikhpura and Jamtara in Jharkhand. “During investigation, the four accused confessed they had undergone ‘training’ for cyber fraud in Nawada and Jamtara,” said the police. The Delhi Police have lodged 372 FIRs and arrested 91 people so far from different locations, including from Bihar. According to the Bihar Police, five persons were earlier arrested in two raids at Danapur and Barh in the state capital and handed over to the Delhi Police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid-vultures-4-more-arrested-in-nalanda-turned-over-to-delhi-cops-101621352418079.html
18-05-2021||Other||After HC rap, Bihar to reverify Covid deaths||PATNAA day after the Patna High Court flagged inconsistency in death figures related to Buxar, the state government Tuesday decided to reverify Covid deaths during the 14-month pandemic period.“This has to be done on a war footing within 10 days,” Bihar’s additional chief secretary (health) Pratyaya Amrit said on Tuesday. A bulletin released by the state health department on Monday had put the Covid toll at 3,928 so far. On Monday, the HC had expressed its displeasure over inconsistency in figures of death in Buxar, mentioned in separate affidavits filed by the state’s chief secretary and the Patna divisional commissioner. It had asked the government to verify facts from all sources before placing it in the court. “Else, it will amount to filing false or incomplete affidavit,” the bench of chief justice Sanjay Karol and justice Sanjay Kumar had said. The HC had also asked the government to clarify if the reported deaths were of people suffering from Covid-19, besides ascertaining the age group of the deceased. The state health department on Tuesday sent detailed instructions to district magistrates, civil surgeons, directors of AIIMS-Patna and the Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (IGIMS) to verify from all sources the deaths having taken place at their respective institutions or at the district-level. Addressing media persons here on Tuesday, Amrit said all medical colleges and hospitals had been advised to set up a committee, comprising the principal, medical superintendent and head of the department of medicine, to examine all records and verify deaths arising out of Covid-19 or otherwise. The same had to be done by the civil surgeon, the additional chief medical officer or any doctor authorised by the civil surgeon at the district-level. “We have asked the district magistrates (DMs) and civil surgeons to set up a committee to verify all deaths at the district level within 10 days, beginning Tuesday,” said Amrit. The district committees had also been tasked to visit private facilities, which were allowed to treat Covid-19 patients, and verify deaths. Amrit said there were five sources of information about death of Covid-19 patients — those dying under home isolation, at Covid Care Centres, District Covid Healthcare Centre, dedicated Covid hospitals and patients on way to a facility. Authorities responsible for each had been activated to verify deaths, he added. “The government wants to have a clear picture on the deaths at the panchayat and block level, district-wise, geographical area and region-wise. It also wants to ensure that the affected family should be supported. The motive is simple. If any person dies of Covid, his/her name should be with us; we should have the right figures. Families of such people should not be deprived. At the same time, we want to check for false claims,” said Amrit in response to a question behind the motive of the exercise. The state government had last year announced a compensation of ₹4 lakh to the kin of those who die of Covid-19. Vaccine allocationThe Centre had allocated over 10.45 lakh doses of vaccine against coronavirus for the age group of 45 years and above. These vaccines will arrive between May 21 and June 1, said Amrit. He, however, did not share the number of vaccines available with the state as on date. Sources said many districts had exhausted their vaccine stock and shut vaccination centres. Amrit also parried a question whether all such vaccination centres would remain shut for the next three days till the state receives its first tranche of vaccines for 45+. He said a proposal had been received that the state would get 6,89,250 doses of Covishield for the 18-44 years age category between May 20 and 24. Community kitchensThe state government had decided to operate at least one community kitchen in each of the total 534 blocks spread across 38 districts in Bihar. Relatives of Covid-19 patients under home isolation could take packed food from such centres. These will also provide milk to children at these community kitchens. Amrit said the number of community kitchen had been scaled up from 119 on May 5 to 432 on Tuesday. Centres of excellenceThe health department Tuesday declared the AIIMS and the IGIMS in Patna as centres of excellence for treatment of mucormycosis or black fungus. Amrit also said the state government had requested the Centre to include molecular genomics laboratory at the IGIMS among 10 such existing laboratories in India for genomic surveillance of Covid-19 in the region. He said the Centre had also agreed to the state’s request to use Liposomal Amphotericin B injection, used in kala-azar patients, to treat cases of mucormycosis. “We have already distributed some vials of the injection to some of the hospitals,” he said. The number of cases of mucormycosis had risen to 56 in Bihar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/after-hc-rap-bihar-to-reverify-covid-deaths-101621352417280.html
18-05-2021||Other||3,705 new Covid-19 cases, 24 deaths in Pune district on Tuesday||PUNE As per the state health department, Pune district reported 3,705 new Covid-19 cases in 24 hours on Tuesday. The district also reported 24 more deaths due to the infection. This took the total count in the district to 0.98 million, of which 0897 million have recovered. The death toll stands at 10,541 with 72,089 active cases undergoing treatment in hospital or in home isolation. Pune rural reported 2,053 new cases which takes the progressive count to 2,68,559. With 11 deaths the toll in the rural area went up to 2,834 on Tuesday. Pune city reported 1,090 new cases, which takes the progressive count to 4,74,906. With 13 more deaths, the toll is now 6,104. PCMC reported 562 new cases and the progressive count went up to 2,36,921. No deaths were reported in PCMC on Tuesday. The PCMC death toll stands at 1,545. The state reported 52,898 patients discharged on Tuesday, which takes the total count to 49,27,480. This recovery rate in the state is 90.69%. The case fatality rate in the state is 1.54%. Currently, 30,97,161 people are in home quarantine and 25,004 are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/3705-new-covid-19-cases-24-deaths-in-pune-district-on-tuesday-101621352353594.html
18-05-2021||Other||Petrol prices in Pune city closed in on Rs99 per litres mark||PUNE Petrol prices in Pune city closed in on the Rs99 per litres mark. On Tuesday, the price of petrol was Rs98.82 per litre and the price of diesel was R89.01 per litre. “It is a mystery how fuel rates were stable during the election phase last month and the now started again. Heavy taxes have been imposed on fuel and the government is giving no relief to the common people who are already suffering in the pandemic,” said Vivek Velankar, president, Sajag Nagrik Manch. Fuel prices started to increase from May 4 in the city. The price of diesel has also reached new highs and the transport sector is affected because of that. A protest against the fuel price hike was staged by the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) on Monday. Prashant Jagtap, city president, NCP, slammed the policies of the central government for this price hike. “The price of petrol which was Rs72/litre in 2014 has reached the verge of Rs100/litre now. Diesel has become more expensive and LPG is also out of the budget of common people. Edible oil prices have touched new heights. People are already suffering because of the pandemic and on the other hand there has been no relief from the central government,” Prashant Jagtap had said at the time of the protest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/petrol-prices-in-pune-city-closed-in-on-rs99-per-litres-mark-101621351933574.html
18-05-2021||Other||International Museum Day: Pune venues struggling to recover despite re-imagining the future||PUNE On International Museum Day, May 18, the International Council of Museums is running with the theme, “The Future of Museums: Recover and Reimagine”. “Every year the International Council of Museums announces a theme to celebrate International Museum Day on 18 May and this year they want us to create, imagine and share new practices of (co-)creation of value, new business models for cultural institutions and innovative solutions for the social, economic and environmental challenges of the present,” said Sudhanva Ranade, director, Raja Dinkar Kelkar Museum. “We have developed a 3D virtual tour, but the problem we are facing is how to monetise it, to earn enough to maintain the museum. It is an expensive proposition and with the museum being closed for almost a year-and-a-half, it seems a tough task,” he added. The objective of International Museum Day (IMD) is to raise awareness about the fact that museums are an important means of cultural exchange, enrichment of cultures and development of mutual understanding, cooperation and peace among people. “Due to intermittent lockdowns, the number of visitors has come down to drastically. However, we are maintaining our periodical activities of conservation, preservation of artefacts and various exhibits, where cleaning and fumigation is done regularly. We have good collection of geological samples for students of Geology. Adventure sports, hiking, mountaineering, and scuba diving equipment will be exhibited with due information, with models of physiology imbibed with a light and commentary combination; such as when we eat food how it moves in the human body. We have various ideas and plans to be executed in the near future, but museums need to open to get visitors,” said Rajiv Vilekar, director, Mahatma Phule Museum. The Babasaheb Ambedkar museum has always been a crowd puller. “We are exploring the idea of making an app specifically for the museums of Pune city, where the public can gain information about major museums in the city. Even if our museum is physically closed due to current situation, we still have recurring costs of maintenance and staff salaries and electricity charges to bear,” said Sanjeevani Majumdar, director of the museum.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/international-museum-day-pune-venues-struggling-to-recover-despite-re-imagining-the-future-101621351333668.html
18-05-2021||Other||PMC committee to frame policy on governing names of public spaces||PUNE Ahead of the civic polls, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has begun to receive proposals to name recently completed infrastructure projects.The committee in charge of names has decided to frame a policy to avoid duplication. This committee is responsible for sanctioning names for roads, chowks, properties, gardens, schools and areas belonging to the PMC. The committee holds a meeting once in a month with corporators sending proposals for sanctions for names.Currently, the committee has received proposals for two flyovers. One is located at the Lullanagar chowk, which is already open for commuters; and another flyover is the Jawaharlal Nehru road between Apsara talkies and Maharashtra Warehousing Corporation. Advocate Haji Gafur Pathan, local corporator of Kondhwa Khurd ward area said, “We proposed the name of chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj to Lulla Nagar flyover. It has not passed yet.” Shrinath Bhimale, BJP corporator from the Market yard area said, “The flyover has not been completed yet. Meanwhile, we are calling it the Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar’s flyover.” At present, there are two bridges with the above names. The Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Bridge in Bund garden on the Mula-Mutha and the Shivaji Maharaj bridge near the PMC main building, a heritage structure. Dhanraj Ghogare, chairman of the committee said, “We have received a proposal for the Lullanagar flyover. It has not been approved. There is already a Shivaji Maharaj bridge near the PMC main building. .” He added, “We came to know that someone has already hanged the board of the Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar flyover. Copying the same name for bridges or flyovers may create confusion. Therefore, we have decided to frame a policy to avoid duplication of names in future.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pmc-committee-to-frame-policy-on-governing-names-of-public-spaces-101621350133615.html
18-05-2021||Pune||Decongestion process begins as jail capacity in Maharashtra reaches 2020 limit||The second round of decongestion process at Maharashtra prisons has begun in May based on the recommendation of the High-Powered Committee (HPC) which was formed based on Supreme Court’s direction in March 2020. Until Monday, a total of 83 inmates from all over the state prisons were released in the second round. Of the 83 released, 64 are from Taloja jail while five are from Yerawada prison and rest from others. In the second wave, six prisoners and one prison staff succumbed to the virus. Last year, seven prisoners and eight staff members succumbed to the virus. Of the total 3,818 prison staff, 3,252 have been vaccinated. Of the inmates, 2,722 have been vaccinated. A total of 41 temporary prisons were established in the state in 2020. The Covid-19 regulations prescribed for jail inmates across the country have mirrored the condition outside the jail premises since the beginning of the pandemic. Be it the first wave, isolation centres, Covid care centres, or vaccination, procedures parallel to that of society have been laid down for the inmates. As facilities such as jumbo hospitals started coming back to life in light of the second wave of Covid-19 in India, the process that was a shot of life in the arm of the jail system - decongestion - also has started seeing the light of day. The HPC includes Justice AA Sayed of Bombay High Court and executive chairman of Maharashtra State legal authority; Sunil Ramanand, additional director-general of Maharashtra prisons; and Anand Limaye, additional chief secretary for appeals and security at Maharashtra home department. In the meeting of the HPC on May 11, the HPC decided to restart the decongestion process as cases started rising and the jail population was over 34,000 which is close to its highest overcrowding limit of over 36,000 even after the release of over 10,000 inmates in the first round. The Bombay High Court in its order on April 29 and the Supreme Court in its order on May 7 had directed the state HPCs to meet again in order to re-initiate the decongestion process. Based on the high court’s direction, during the hearing of suo moto public interest litigation (PIL), the HPC for Maharashtra was reconstituted on May 4. “From the data placed before us it is seen that the prison population was reduced from 36,061 as on March 31, 2020,to 26,379 as on July 31, 2020, due to temporary release of eligible prisoners pursuant to the decisions of the High-Powered Committee (HPC). After July 31, 2020, however, this figure of 26,379 steadily increased each month and as on April 30, 2021, the prison population has reached 34,224. The data also shows that as on May 11, 2021, the total prison population is 34,733 of which 29,186 are under trial-prisoners and 5,547 are convicted prisoners,” read a part of the observations made during the HPC meeting on May 7. The maximum capacity of all the jails put together is 23,262. Since the HPC decision was made in 2020, the courts in Maharashtra have 12,751 pending bail applications pending as on May 7. Besides these applications, the applications which were rejected last year will also be allowed to make fresh applications without any implications of their last application. These applications have to be decided upon before May 20, according to the HPC. Decongestion in 2020 The decongestion process in 2020 was held in three phases - one for under-trials, one for convicts in cases less than seven years jail term, and one for convicts in non-serious cases with more than seven years jail term. The first phase of releasing under-trials started after a state-level High Powered Committee (HPC) had laid down rules for choosing who should be released. The second decision was issued on May 8, 2020, and the third on May 11, 2020, by the same HPC. In the first phase, 5105 prisoners were released; in the second phase 2, 686 prisoners were released; and in the third phase, 3,081 prisoners were released. Overview of Maharashtra prisons The state of Maharashtra has the highest number of jails and sub jails in the country, according to the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB). The state also has the second highest number of central jails in the country. Maharashtra has a total of 64 jails. The 64 jails include nine central jails, 28 district jails, four sub-jails, one women’s jail, one borstal school, 19 open jails, one special jail and one uncategorised jail. At the end of 2018, Maharashtra jail capacity was 24,095 - 22,830 male and 1,265 female - while the occupancy was 35,884 -34,264 male and 1,620 female. Overall, the jails were 148.9% occupied. Therefore, the jails in Maharashtra were housing 11,789 more people than they are equipped to. The maximum overcrowding among all jails in Maharashtra was in central jails at 170.70 per cent with 25,333 inmates residing in space meant for 14,841. Therefore, the Central jails were housing 10,492 inmates more than its capacity. Which also means that major portion of the overall overcrowding was concentrated in central jails of the state. The nine central jails include Aurangabad Central Jail, Arthur Road Mumbai Central Jail, Taloja Navi Mumbai Central Jail, Yerawada Central Jail, Nagpur Central Jail, Amravati Central Jail, Nashik Central Jail, Thane Central Jail, and Kolhapur Central Jail. To function at its capacity, the central jail population needed to decrease by 10,492. However, the nine central jails collectively managed to shed overcrowding by only around 6,500. The overcrowding in central jails was followed by district jails which were housing 8,680 inmates in the space meant for 6,938 inmates - 125.11% capacity. In women’s jail, the capacity was overflowing at 159.16% with 417 women living in space meant for 262.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/decongestion-process-begins-as-jail-capacity-in-maharashtra-reaches-2020-limit-101621349893530.html
18-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra reports over 28,000 new Covid-19 cases, 679 deaths; Mumbai cases dip sharply to 960||With 28,438 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Tuesday, the tally in Maharashtra reached 5,433,506. As many as 679 patients lost their lives to the disease in a single day, which pushed the death toll 83,777.The capital city of Mumbai saw less than 1,000 new cases (961 cases to be exact) and 44 related deaths, which pushed the city's tally to 690,023 and the death toll to 14,316. Earlier on Monday, the city logged 1,232 new cases and 48 related deaths.Meanwhile, a bulletin from the health department on the day showed that the state currently 419,727 active cases.Daily new cases have been witnessing a declining trend in Maharashtra since the past few days. However, Tuesday's tally of 28,438 new cases is a marginal increase over the 26,616 new cases reported on Monday (May 17). Previously, the state had logged 34,389 new cases on Sunday (May 16), 34,848 new cases on Saturday (May 15) and 39,923 new cases on Friday (May 14).Also read | Eight states have more than 100,000 active Covid-19 cases, testing increased consistently: CentreAs many as 52,898 patients recovered from the disease on the day, in line with the trend of daily recoveries exceeding the single-day infections in the state. So far, 4,927,480 people have recovered from Covid-19 in the state with a recovery rate of 90.68%, data from the government showed.The data also showed that 250,310 samples were tested for the diseases on Tuesday. With this, medical workers in the state have tested 31,588,717 Covid-19 samples.In terms of the active caseload, Pune with 72,089 active cases remains the highest contributor to the state's tally. Among other districts, Mumbai (31,790 cases), Thane (28,257 cases), Nagpur (26,794 cases), Solapur (20,154 cases) and Ahmednagar (19,745 cases) account for the most number of active cases.Covid-19 vaccination drive resumed in selected centres in Mumbai on Tuesday, after a three-day halt, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said. According to data from the Union ministry of health and family welfare, 19,833,516 doses of the Covid-19 vaccine have been administered in Maharashtra as of 7am on the day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-reports-over-28-000-new-covid-19-cases-679-deaths-mumbai-sees-960-new-cases-101621349257021.html
18-05-2021||Pune||Dam capacity to benefit from light rainfall for over two weeks||With the city receiving spells of moderate rains especially during evening time in the last 20 days, the catchment area has also observed light to moderate rainfall activity which will benefit the dam recharge. “Along with parts of the city, the rainfall activity continued in the catchment area as well. Although it was moderate to light rain it will benefit in dam recharge activity,” said Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather forecasting department, India Meteorological Department (IMD) Pune The four water reservoirs of the city – Khadakwasla, Panshet, Warasgaon and Temghar has an average of 29.245 % water stock available on Wednesday which is greater than previous year (ie-26.0425%) “These unseasonal rains generally don’t make much difference to water storage as these rains are not for long duration and it comes along with the gusty winds so it does not make a larger impact on the water storage. It helps to a smaller extent,” said an official from the state water irrigation department. With monsoon expected to arrive on June 1 in Kerala and prediction of normal rainfall makes the situation better for water storage in dams. “Currently, we have enough water stock in dams, and the monsoon predicted arrival is on regular time so the city will not face any water shortage,” added the official. During the second week of May, water was released from Khadakwasla for the summer crops. It was the second time in a year when water was released for irrigation. “The activity of releasing the water will continue until the first week of June. However, we have reserved water stock required for water supply in the city,” said an official. The repair work at Temghar dam will be delayed due to non-availability of workers due to Covid regulation restriction imposed in the city. The 95 per cent repair work is completed. The remaining 5 per cent work is expected to be completed by October. Currently, the water stock in Temghar is 2.12 per cent, it was brought down to null at the end of March to finish the remaining work. The dam site which is 50 kilometres away from the city receives around 3,000mm rainfall during monsoon season. Box Header: Dam levels at a glance Info: The four water reservoirs of the city – Khadakwasla, Panshet, Warasgaon and Temghar has an average of 29.245 % water stock available on Wednesday which is greater than previous year (ie-26.0425%) Khadakwasla 2020: 9.88% 2021: 44.5% Panshet 2020: 46.93% 2021: 41.16% Warasgaon 2020: 37.31% 2021: 29.2% Temghar 2020:10.05% 2021: 2.12% Total stock in 2020: 104.17% Total stock in 2021: 116.98% Average Stock in 2020: 26.0425% Average Stock in 2021: 29.245%||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/dam-capacity-to-benefit-from-light-rainfall-for-over-two-weeks-101621349834873.html
18-05-2021||Pune||Man robbed under pretence of road rage||A 46-year-old man from Baramati was robbed of ₹13.5 lakh cash by people who distracted him with a false accusation of having damaged their vehicle in Wagholi area of Pune on April 30. The crime was committed around 7:30am on April 30 in Ubalenagar area of Wagholi in Pune. The two men came near the man’s moving car in front of a steel shop and overtook him before crossing his path and stopping the car in front of his, according to the complainant. The two then started accusing the complainant of causing damage to their vehicle. The complainant was arguing with two of them over who caused the damage when their accomplice came and nicked a yellow bag which contained ₹13, 50, 00 in cash, according to the complainant. Police sub inspector Suraj Gore of Lonikand police station is investigating the case. A case under Sections 379 (theft) and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Lonikand police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/man-robbed-under-pretence-of-road-rage-101621349713491.html
18-05-2021||Pune||Chhota Rajan’s niece arrested in extortion case||The Pune police arrested a woman who identifies herself as Chhota Rajan’s niece on Tuesday in a case of extortion. Chhota Rajan is bygone era’s underworld don from Mumbai and was known as Rajendra Nikalje before he became infamous by the pseudonym. The woman was identified as Priyadarshini Prakash Nikalje (36), a resident of Anita Apartment in Jabhulkar Chowk area of Wanowrie. Nikalje, who is part of a political party, was in Wanowrie area when she was arrested. “We have arrested her today and she was produced in court today itself. She is in police custody until May 20,” said Srinivas Ghadage, deputy commissioner of police, crime, Pune. The extortion came to light when a man named Dhiraj Sable was caught accepting ₹25 lakh bribe from a local builder named Rajesh Javlekar near Aurora Towers in Camp area on March 14, 2020. A case under Sections 386, 387, 384, 385, and 34 of Indian Penal Code was registered against Sable, a man named Mandar Waikar and Nikalje at Lashkar police station. In November 2020, the Bombay High Court had rejected the anticipatory bail for Nikalje in this case. The case was registered after Javlekar’s wife and sister-in-law had allegedly lodged a complaint against him through Nikalje. A complaint on the letterhead of Nikalje’s political party was submitted to the police, according to his complaint. After the complaint was lodged, the woman threatened Javlekar’s life if he failed to pay ₹50 lakh as extortion, according to the complaint in the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/chhota-rajan-s-niece-arrested-in-extortion-case-101621349533434.html
18-05-2021||Other||Dr Rajeev Chavan is new principal controller of Defence Accounts (officers)||PUNE Dr Rajeev Chavan, IDAS, NDC, has taken over as principal controller of Defence Accounts (officers) on Monday. He is an IDAS officer of the 1990 batch and joined the service in September 1991. Dr Chavan is an MBBS from the Medical College, Nagpur University and a law graduate from Rani Durgawati University, Jabalpur.He held the post of director in the Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment.Thereafter, he handled charge of CFA in (FYS) Ambajahri of the department of Defence Production, under the ambit of OFB, Kolkata.He also held the charge of IFA in (Capital-AF) Delhi, IFA (Capital–Navy), Delhi, besides working in many ordnance and vehicle factories in various capacities. His last posting was PCDA (SWC) Jaipur, Indian Army. He was student officer of the 58th National Defence College, New Delhi.The office of the PCDA (O) caters to over 50,000 serving Army officers dealing with pre-audit, pay, allowances and claims of officers of Indian Army.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/dr-rajeev-chavan-is-new-principal-controller-of-defence-accounts-officers-101621349473558.html
18-05-2021||Pune||ZP accountant booked for demanding bribe to process bills||An accountant at the Zilla Parishad health department was arrested by the Anti-corruption Bureau (ACB) Pune unit on Tuesday. The accused man was identified as Vijay Madhukar Chitode (45), an accountant at the health department of Pune Zilla Parishad. The man was caught while accepting ₹20,000 bribe of the ₹25,000 that he had demanded. A complaint in the matter was lodged by the owner of a printing company. The printing company had a contract for printing post- Covid19 forms and health certificate formats for sugarcane field workers, according to a statement issued by ACB. After the contract was over, the complainant filed for payment of bills. However, Chitode demanded ₹25,000 bribe in order to process and forward the bills for payment to the concerned ZP department. The ACB officials caught him red-handed while accepting the sum. A case under Section 7 of Prevention of Corruption Act was registered at Bundgarden police station. The ACB officials have urged people to approach them in case of such demands by government officials. ACB Pune can be reached on 020-26122134 or 020-26132802 or 020-26050423 over phone calls and on 7875333333 on WhatsApp.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/zp-accountant-booked-for-demanding-bribe-to-process-bills-101621349353500.html
18-05-2021||Other||I lost my father to Covid, now my mother is struggling with ‘black fungus’... When will this nightmare end?||PUNE Distraught families of those who have recovered from Covid-19 are now left facing another health challenge, Mucormycosis, colloquially referred to as “black fungus”. The steady rise in the number of cases of Mucormycosis is leading to a shortage of the drug Amphotericin, required for the treatment. Supply of the drug is now being restricted by district administration and is not freely available in the market. Ketan Bagade, son of Pramila Bagade, who is admitted to the Sahyadri multispeciality hospital, said, “My mom was Covid-19 positive on April 30, and got discharged from a government Covid centre in Baramati on May 7. A few days after being discharged she started complaining of a swelling and pain near the nose and cheeks. She was diagnosed with Mucormycosis. Bagade says that’s when they admitted her to the Pune hospital.“The hospital said that she will require five doses of Amphotericin B Liposomal injection. On the first day the hospital provided her the injection, on the second day we were asked to get it and we arranged for it. On the third day, again the hospital arranged for it; however, now they have asked us to get it from outside. We contacted a few chemists and they said that off-the-counter sale of the drug is restricted. We went to the collector’s office and they said that only the hospital can procure the drug,” Bagade adds. Bagade also said that the hospital estimated the treatment cost, without the injections, to be ₹six lakh. He said, “My mother needs about five doses every day for another seven days, so she needs 35 vials. Each dose costs Rs7,000, so the injections alone cost about ₹2.45 lakh.” Another such patient who recently lost his father to Covid-19, had to travel from Nanded to Pune to be with his mother who is fighting Mucormycosis. Suraj Telang’s mother is admitted to the Poona Hospital, and he is now looking for the injections. Telang said, “My mother finished her surgery on Tuesday and doctors had said that she would need about four injections every day before the surgery. My mom tested positive for Covid-19 on March 22, along with my father. However, my father lost his life to the infection on March 28. A few days later, my mother started complaining of a pain in the tooth and gum, and then in the sinuses, with a swelling on the cheeks. We took her to the hospital and she was diagnosed with Mucormycosis.”Telang added, “We have lost all our savings in paying hospital bills. I lost my father to Covid-19 and now, my mother is struggling from Mucormycosis. When will this nightmare end? We are trying every possible source available to get the drug.”“We even went to the collector’s office but no one is giving any right answers,” he added.Dr H K Sale, executive director of Noble hospital, said, “We are facing a severe shortage of the drug. After saving our patients from Covid-19, we might lose them to Mucormycosis, because there is no drug available. These patients also need ICU beds for a longer period. If we do not ramp up our facilities and make sure medication is in the right place, we may lose more lives for no reason.”On Tuesday, state health minister Rajesh Tope announced that in case the cost of treatment for Mucormycosis is more than the allowable insurance cover, under the Mahatma Jyotirao Phule Jan Arogya Yojana and Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana, the excess cost will be borne by the the State Health Guarantee Society.Under the MPJAY scheme, medicines for Mucormycosis will be given free to patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/i-lost-my-father-to-covid-now-my-mother-is-struggling-with-black-fungus-when-will-this-nightmare-end-101621348933452.html
18-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi receives over 60,000 Covaxin doses for people above 45, key workers: AAP MLA||Delhi on Tuesday received over 60,000 Covaxin doses for key workers and those aged above 45, AAP MLA Atishi said.Still, the city has only two days of Covaxin stock left for this category, while Covishield doses for the group can last up to four days, she said.She also said that 1.13 lakh beneficiaries received jabs on May 17. Around 10.75 lakh people have got both the doses since the inoculation drive began on January 16."After Tuesday evening, the city will have only three days of Covishield stock left for the 18-44 age group. We appeal to the central government to make more vaccines available for this category immediately," she said, adding the city government might have to stop vaccination for them from next week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-receives-over-60-000-covaxin-doses-for-people-above-45-key-workers-aap-mla-101621346812869.html
18-05-2021||Jaipur||Cyclone Tauktae to enter Rajasthan late tonight, 7 districts to receive heavy rains||Cyclone Tauktae will be entering Rajasthan as a depression by late Tuesday night, seven districts of the state will be witnessing heavy to very heavy rainfall, the MeT department announced on Tuesday. “The cyclone will be entering Rajasthan by late Tuesday night. At present, the system is in Gujarat near Ahmedabad. It will enter the state as depression tonight and will weaken by May 20,” said Radhey Shyam, MeT director.He said heavy to very heavy rainfall is expected in south Rajasthan and some areas of the Jaipur division on Wednesday. The department has sounded a red alert for over half a dozen of districts in the state, including Jalore, Sirohi, Udaipur, Pali, Dungarpur, Chittorgarh and Rajsamand, where heavy to very heavy rainfall is expected on Wednesday. The state government has deployed SDRF teams in the southern and western districts of Rajasthan. Additional DGP (Law and Order), Saurabh Srivastava, said that companies of the Special Disaster Relief Force (SDRF) have been deployed at Sachore, Jalore, Banswara and Dungarpur to contain any aftermaths of the cyclone. “Because the cyclone is rapidly changing the course, we have also sent our teams near Pali to ensure that our preparedness is complete,” he said, adding that apart from southern Rajasthan, which is likely to bear the brunt of the cyclone, additional teams drawn from other units of the state police have also been deployed in areas which are expected to be hit by the cyclone. Rajasthan police are also in touch with the meteorological department. The SDRF and Rajasthan Police had already sent an order to the IGs of Jodhpur and Udaipur to keep a close watch on areas like Sirohi, Dungarpur, Jalore and Banswara. Rescue teams are stationed in Raniwra, Bhinmal, Mount Abu areas where local police are working in tandem with the district administration. Meanwhile, on Tuesday several places in Rajasthan recorded rainfall triggered by Tauktae cyclone. Bhilwara recorded a maximum of 50 mm rainfall, followed by Chittorgarh which recorded 25 mm of rain. Dabok, Vanasthali, Sawaimadhopur, Bundi, Ajmer also received 20.6, 20, 16, 14 and 11.8 mm of rainfall respectively, according to the MeT department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/cyclone-tauktae-to-enter-rajasthan-late-tonight-7-districts-to-receive-heavy-rains-101621346954207.html
18-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi Prisons Department begins Covid vaccination of inmates in 18-45 age group||The Delhi Prisons Department on Tuesday started vaccination of the inmates in the 18-45 age group against the coronavirus, officials said."Hundred inmates in the 18 to 45 age group have been vaccinated on Tuesday in the central jail number 5 at Tihar. A total of 1,472 inmates above 45 years of age have been vaccinated across the three jails since the vaccination drive started," Director General (Prisons) Sandeep Goel said.The government allowed vaccination for everyone above the age of 18 from May 1.Jail officials said that in order to arrest the spread of Covid-19, the process of decongestion of prisons has been initiated.So far, around 1,000 under-trial prisoners have been released on interim bail. Around 600 convicts have been released on emergency parole after the prisons department received the city government's nod."There are more than 19,500 inmates in the three jails. Of them, around 2,500 inmates are above 45 years," an official had said.The vaccination drive for the inmates started on March 18.According to data shared by the Prisons Department, 375 cases of the coronavirus have been reported among the inmates since March 2021. Of them, 318 have recovered and there are 51 active cases. Six inmates died of Covid-19 so far.Similarly, 213 staff members have tested positive for the virus since March, 2021. Of them, 186 have recovered and 27 are still under treatment, the data said.In view of the spiralling coronavirus cases in the national capital, the officials said they had taken several measures to contain its spread inside the prisons."We have sensitised the inmates about the virus and they have been told to maintain social distancing norms,” an official had said.The first coronavirus case was reported in Rohini Jail on May 13, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-prisons-department-begins-covid-vaccination-of-inmates-in-18-45-age-group-101621346597423.html
18-05-2021||Delhi||'God bless this country': On Covid-19 situation, Delhi high court says officers living in ivory towers||Covid-19 has not spared even a single family and still central government's officers are living in "ivory towers" oblivious of ground realities, observed the Delhi High Court which on Tuesday was of the view that manufacturing of Sputnik V vaccine in India is giving an opportunity to the nation staring at shortage of vaccines.“God bless this country”, was another remark of a bench of Justices Manmohan and Navin Chawla which castigated the Centre for not being alive to the pandemic situation that is taking so many lives.The bench said the collaboration of Panacea Biotec with Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) for manufacturing of Sputnik V vaccine should be seen as an opportunity to ensure its usage here and in such matters instructions are to be taken from the highest authorities that too within 30 minutes.It said "no one is applying its mind" when there is an opportunity for the government to get millions of vaccines and it should use this as a window.“Otherwise, deaths will continue to happen. Every day you are castigated by each and every court and still you are not awake.“Which bureaucrat is giving you instructions. Is he not alive to the situation? God bless this country. That is why we are facing this situation. In such matters instructions are to be taken from the highest authorities that too within 30 minutes,” the bench said.It added, “Does your officer not see so many deaths are taking place in the country and we are short of vaccines. Your client is not alive to the situation.”The bench, which was critical of the Centre's stand on the issue, said “You (government) are so short of vaccines and you are not taking it through. May be it is an opportunity for you. Don’t be so negative. It is like a raging fire and nobody is bothered. You people don’t understand the larger picture or what.“Tell your officers it is an opportunity for you, don’t lose it. No one is applying its mind. The virus has not spared any single family. Your officers are living in ivory towers,” the bench said.The high court’s observations came while hearing a plea of Delhi-based Panacea Biotec seeking to modify a July 2020 order, by which the firm had undertaken not to prosecute further the execution proceedings instituted by them in relation to an arbitral award, running into crores of rupees, passed in its favour and against the Centre.The company, in its fresh application, sought release of the arbitral award saying it needs funds at the earliest in the larger interest of humanity as it has already manufactured trial batches of Covid vaccine Sputnik V in collaboration with RDIF and the process of manufacturing scale-up batches is on.The bench said “This court is of the view that in today’s time there is acute shortage of vaccines in India and the collaboration of applicant (Panacea Biotec) with RDIF gives India an opportunity to ensure that the vaccine manufactured by the applicant is used for sale in India.”The court issued notice to the Centre and asked it to examine the plea and file a reply within a week and listed it for hearing on May 31.The company, represented through senior advocate Sandeep Sethi, said, “If the awarded amount is not released…, the whole process of manufacture of vaccine at the fastest pace may get derailed and delayed which will not be in the larger interest of humanity.”Additional Solicitor General Balbir Singh, representing the Centre, submitted that the manufacturing of Sputnik V will not benefit the country as it will be for global supply by RDIF.He claimed that certain misleading statements were made in the plea and there was no urgency as the vaccines are to be sold outside India.The Centre was also represented through advocates Rajesh Ranjan and B S Shukla.Sethi, however, responded that no manufactured vaccines can be exported without the government’s consent.He said these vaccines are meant only for Indian use and it will benefit the government as the firm is one of the largest manufacturers of vaccines which supplies domestic and international markets.On the Centre’s objection to the plea, the bench said the government is short of vaccines and this company says they are willing to manufacture and deposit 20 per cent of sale proceeds in the court, so it should be taken as an opportunity.The application was filed in a pending appeal of the Centre challenging a single judge’s order dismissing its petition on a limited point of limitation period.Before the single judge, the Centre had challenged the arbitral tribunal’s award which was in the favour of Panacea Biotec and Bharat Biotech International Ltd and Serum Institute of India relating to an earlier agreement for pandemic H1N1 influenza vaccines in 2010.In its plea before the division bench, Panacea Biotec mentioned that Serum Institute and Bharat Biotech are also exporting Covid-19 vaccines to various countries and now there is huge shortage of vaccines which is not readily available for citizens of the age of 18 years and above, though officially it has been declared that they are eligible for vaccination since May 1.“It is one of the greatest challenge the humanity is facing which can only be overcome by vaccination and by following other protocols. Unless timely steps for manufacture of Covid-19 vaccine are taken, the death toll can go up to astronomical figures,” it said while maintaining that 100 million doses per year of Sputnik V vaccine for the global market would be manufactured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/god-bless-this-country-on-covid-19-situation-delhi-high-court-says-officers-living-in-ivory-towers-101621341981948.html
18-05-2021||Chandigarh||Gurmeet Ram Rahim seeks emergency parole to meet ailing mother||Jailed Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim, who is currently lodged in Rohtak's Sunaria jail, has sought 'emergency parole' to meet and attend to his ailing mother, officials said on Tuesday.Serving a 20-year jail term in Rohtak's Sunaria jail since 2017 for raping two of his women disciples, the 53-year-old Sirsa-headquartered sect chief has submitted some documents regarding the ailment of his mother to the prison authorities.The Dera chief has sought 21-day parole to meet and attend to his ailing mother Naseeb Kaur, prison officials said.“Following his emergency parole plea, we have written to the Haryana Police in this regard and sought NoC from them,” Sunaria jail superintendent, Sunil Sangwan told PTI over phone.The prison officials have also forwarded the documents regarding the ailment of Dera chief's mother to the concerned authorities to verify them.Before taking a decision on parole plea, considerations mainly on law and order ground will be taken into account, sources said.Notably, the Dera head had earlier been given a day's parole to meet his ailing mother in October, 2020.Last week, he had been admitted to the PGIMS hospital in Rohtak for a day with complaints of dizziness and blood pressure fluctuations.The Dera chief was in August 2017 sentenced by a special CBI court in Panchkula to 20 years in jail in the two rape cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/gurmeet-ram-rahim-seeks-emergency-parole-to-meet-ailing-mother-101621343690352.html
18-05-2021||Other||Yogi govt hits back after Cong points out discrepancy in UP’s Covid-19 numbers||Uttar Pradesh Congress MLA Aradhna Mishra ‘Mona’ slammed the Bhartiya Janata Party government in Uttar Pradesh over their handling of the Covid-19 crisis and fabricating the death numbers. She asked chief minister Yogi Adityanath to resign, HT has learnt.While addressing the media on Tuesday, the Congress MLA said “The current UP government has proved to be truly incompetent and have lost their right to govern the state. Morally, the UP chief minister should resign and if they fail to do so, I urge the honourable Governor to dissolve this government.” She further said that the government failed to provide the people of the state with security and a healthy environment.In her address, she defined the Yogi-led government using ‘3Ds’. “ This government is based on denial, destroying of evidence and data manipulation.” She launched a scathing attack when she said the situation in the state would have been far better if the government paid attention to the crisis instead of trying to hide it. She further accused the government of disrespecting the dead by not allowing their close ones to perform their last rites respectfully.Mishra pointed out that earlier the Lucknow Municipal Office was responsible for issuing the death certificates, however, now the CMO has taken over. She questioned the reason behind such a move. “I believe this decision has been taken to hide the actual number of Covid-19 deaths in the state” she opined.In the same virtual address, AICC spokesperson Supriya Srinate brought forward the Covid-19 figures in the state. She revealed that the state’s official death tally shows 2,268 deaths in the state capital. She said, “However, the official figures also show that 7,890 death certificates have been issued in the capital during the 45-days from April 1 to May 15. Additionally, we found that 5,970 death certificates had been issued between February 15 to March 31.” She questioned the discrepancy and accused the UP state government of underreporting the Covid-19 figures.Aradhna Mishra also pointed out discrepancies in the government’s official numbers. She pointed out that a large number of people have lost their lives at home due to lack of hospital beds, she claimed that this is missing from the official records.“The number of death certificates issued in a district will always be higher than the total number of confirmed Covid deaths there. Covid is not the only cause of death. Secondly, not all the death certificates issued in a particular period would indicate them as the deaths that have happened in the same time frame. Many times people apply late or wait for a suitable time for obtaining a death certificate. So, such a gap should not be assumed as a discrepancy,” said a senior state government official in Lucknow. Meanwhile, chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday said the death certificates of all Covid-19 patients must clearly mention the coronavirus disease as the cause of the demise and kins must not face any problem in obtaining them. The chief minister said this at the Covid review meeting in Lucknow.“The district magistrates and chief medical officers (CMOs) across all districts must ensure that kins of any deceased (died of Covid or non-Covid causes) must not face any problem in obtaining death certificates. If the death has happened due to Covid, then the certificate must clearly mention it. If need be, then necessary government order regarding this can also be issued,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/yogi-govt-hits-back-after-cong-points-out-discrepancy-in-up-s-covid-19-numbers-101621343833889.html
18-05-2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand reports 2,507 new cases of Covid-19, 60 more fatalities||Jharkhand on Tuesday reported 60 fresh Covid-19 fatalities taking the death toll to 4,539, while 2,507 new cases pushed the tally to 3,18,009, a health department bulletin said.The mineral-rich state now has 33,524 active cases, while 2,79,946 patients have recovered from the infection, it said.The recovery rate among coronavirus patients in the state now stands at 88.03 per cent, better than the national average of 84.80 per cent.State capital Ranchi, which has been severely impacted by the virus, recorded 10 deaths during the day, as against 18 on Monday, 19 on Saturday, 28 on Saturday, and 40 fatalities on Friday.For the first time in May, East Singhbhum with 12 Covid-19 deaths recorded higher fatalities than Ranchi. On Monday the district had recorded 7 Covid-19 deaths.Seven deaths were recorded in Bokaro, followed by six in Hazaribag, four in Dhanbad and three in West Singhbhum.Two fatalities each were reported from Chatra, Garhwa, Giridih, Gumla, Ramgarh, and Simdega.Jamtara, Khunti, Koderma, Latehar, Palamu, and Saraikela recorded one death each.No deaths have been reported from six of the 24 districts in the state during the last 24 hours.The six districts are Deoghar, Dumka, Godda, Lohardaga, Pakur, and Sahebganj.A look at the health bulletin of the state suggests that prominent cities of Jharkhand like Ranchi, East Singhbhum with headquarter at Jamshedpur, Bokaro, Dhanbad, and Hazaribag are witnessing high Covid-19 cases, while relatively backward districts including Chatra, Gumla, Latehar, and Pakur are logging a lesser number of infections.Battling a sharp surge in Covid-19 cases during the second wave, the state government has extended the lockdown till May 27.Restrictions with stricter provisions, including seven days mandatory quarantine for people visiting the state, are now in place.Altogether, 77,88,630 samples have been tested for Covid-19 in Jharkhand thus far, including 52,887 since Monday, it added.The mortality rate in the state remained higher at 1.42 per cent as against the nation's 1.10 per cent.In a bid to protect its citizens from the deadly virus, the Jharkhand government had on May 14 launched a free vaccination drive for people in the age group of 18 to 44 years.Over 1.57 crore people in the state are in the 18-44 years age bracket.The state government could not roll out the inoculation drive for these people from May 1 as it was facing a shortage of vaccines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/jharkhand-reports-2-507-new-cases-of-covid-19-60-more-fatalities-101621342872137.html
18-05-2021||Jaipur||Cong MLA who rebelled against Gehlot in 2020 sends resignation letter to speaker||Jaipur/Barmer: Congress legislator Hemaram Choudhary, a sharp critic of Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot, resigned from his state assembly seat on Tuesday. Choudhary said he had sent his resignation letter to chief minister Gehlot and assembly speaker CP Joshi but refused to explain the trigger for the move.“I have submitted my resignation to the speaker, CP Joshi and CM Ashok Gehlot. I had resigned earlier, but it was not accepted. I have been MLA for two-and-a-half years, and have done enough politics. I will speak on the reason behind the resignation, once it is accepted,” 73-year-old Choudhary said.A state assembly official said Hemaram Choudhary’s resignation was received through email and action will be taken in line with the rules.Hemaram Choudhary,, a six-time MLA from Gudamalani in the Barmer district, was among the 19 MLAs who rebelled against Ashok Gehlot in the summer of 2020. Sachin Pilot fronted the revolt that threatened to lead to the exit of the Gehlot government before the Congress leadership brokered Sachin Pilot’s truce with Gehlot.Rajasthan Congress president Govind Singh Dotasara reached out to the Congress MLA soon after and expressed confidence that he would withdraw his letter. “Hemaram is a senior and respected leader of our party. I have spoken to him after the information about his resignation as MLA. This is a family matter, it will be resolved soon,” Dotasara tweeted.This is the second time since his election in the December 2018 state polls that Hemaram Choudhary has sent across his resignation letter. He had first resigned in 2019 during the first session of the reconstituted assembly, reportedly because he was miffed that Gehlot did not induct him into his council of ministers. He was pacified by senior leaders and later withdrew.Hemaram Chaudhary, who was revenue minister in Gehlot’s cabinet in 2008-2013, had offered to quit before the 2013 elections over differences with another MLA over shifting of the oil refinery site from Lilala to Pachpadra in Barmer.A senior Congress leader said Hemaram Choudhary,has had differences with local leaders and had indicated his unhappiness that his recommendation on issues such as transfer and posting of local officials were not acted upon though requests from other MLAs were accommodated.Political analyst Manish Godha said he would wait for Hemaram Choudhary,to clarify if local problems led him to send his letter or if his letter was the precursor to another political crisis. “The possibilities of pressure politics can also be ruled out as the disgruntled faction is asking for a cabinet shuffle and political appointments,” Manish Godha said.The Bharatiya Janata Party said Hemaram Choudhary’s resignation letter reflected that there was no internal democracy within the Congress and a senior leader was ignored to an extent that he puts in his papers. “If this is the situation, I don’t know when the government’s ship may sink,” Deputy leader of opposition in the assembly, Rajendra Rathore said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/congress-mla-who-rebelled-against-gehlot-in-2020-resigns-from-assembly-101621341973781.html
18-05-2021||Delhi||Kejriwal announces free education, aid for children orphaned by pandemic||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday announced ₹50,000 relief for families of people, who have died of Covid-19, free education, and ₹2,500 monthly for those orphaned because of the pandemic till the age of 25. Announcing a series of relief measures, Kejriwal said the families that have lost their primary breadwinner will also get ₹2,500 monthly.Kejriwal said the poor, who do not have ration cards at this point and need subsidised food grains, will be entitled to get them and that a system will be put in place in two days to enable that. He added the relief measures await a formal Cabinet approval and can be notified for implementation only after that.“Common people have been facing a lot of difficulties because of the pandemic. Many of them have lost their loved ones. Several children have lost their parents. Several elderly people have lost their children on whom they were dependent. We cannot replace these lives or reduce their grief. We are only trying to help them, for which we have four announcements,” said Kejriwal at an online briefing.“First, Delhi has a large number of people who are poor but still do not have ration cards. They too will be eligible for free ration being distributed by the Delhi government.” He said people won’t have to show income certificates to avail ration. “Second, families who lost relatives because of Covid-19 will get ₹50,000 ex-gratia. Third, families which have lost their breadwinners to Covid-19 will be entitled to an ex-gratia pension of ₹2,500 per month over and above the ₹50,000 ex gratia.”Also Read | Black marketing of Covid drugs: Here’s what 9 politicians told the Delhi PoliceKejriwal said the money will be credited to the accounts of the spouses in the cases where those who have died were married and that of parents of those who were unmarried. “Fourth announcement is for children who have been orphaned. It includes those who lost both parents to Covid-19 as well as children who lost their only surviving parent to Covid-19. Such children will be entitled to ex-gratia assistance of ₹2,500 per month till the age of 25 and their education will be free – taken care of by the government.”Kejriwal said his ministers have been discussing the measures for the last few days and the finance management to enable these schemes. “People must be wondering where the money will come from. Six years ago, you voted for an honest government. With our anticorruption model and efficient management of resources, we have saved money on many fronts. We have drawn a proper model considering all aspects where money can be saved. All our ministers have been working on it over the last few days.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/kejriwal-announces-free-education-aid-for-children-orphaned-by-pandemic-101621341133751.html
18-05-2021||Other||‘Jammu and Kashmir’s oxygen capacity sees three-fold increase’: Government||The Jammu and Kashmir government on Tuesday said that the oxygen capacity in the Union territory has increased from 15,000 litres per minute (LPM) to 50,000 LPM in about over a month. The government said that the UT saw more than a threefold increase in its oxygen capacity since April 01, 2021.“From 15,000 LPM on 1st April, installed capacity of oxygen plants in the UT has increased to 50,000 LPM on 17th May 2021,” J&K’s department of information and public relations (DIPR) said in a tweet.“Prompt effort by the administration substantially augments the capacity and availability of medical oxygen in the health facilities of Jammu and Kashmir to serve the public,” it said.The claim comes after advisor Baseer Khan received a consignment of seven oxygen generation plants from Germany on Monday.Khan said that with the commissioning of these seven plants, the oxygen requirement across the hospitals in J&K will be almost fulfilled and will cater to the daily requirements.Among the seven plants, five have a capacity of 1000 LPM each while two plants will have a capacity of 1500 and 600 LPM respectively.Khan said that the supporting infrastructure for the oxygen plants is almost ready and it is expected to be installed commissioned within a few days.“Medical oxygen has become an important commodity in the fight against this pandemic and with the commissioning of these oxygen generation plants, the oxygenated bed capacity of the hospitals will be greatly enhanced,” he said.“The government is keeping a keen eye on the developments and is taking adequate steps to augment its capacity,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jammu-and-kashmir-s-oxygen-capacity-sees-three-fold-increase-government-101621340713989.html
18-05-2021||Other||A day after 3 die in police firing in Sukma, villagers say their ‘protest was peaceful’||A day after three people died in police firing outside a newly established camp in Chhatisgarh’s Sukma district where local were protesting, the villagers alleged that they were staging a peaceful protest but police opened fire to end it, HT has learnt. “Our only fault is we don’t want a police camp and therefore we were protesting it. When the police were not able to end the protest, they opened fire killing three people. Six villagers are still missing. Those who are killed are Uika Pandu from Teemapura, Bheema Ursam who hails from Gundam, and Kawasi Waga from Sudwa village. At least 18 people are injured with bullet injuries,” said Rahul Madvi, a villager, while talking to the local media. The locals claimed that three villagers died in Monday’s firing while six are missing and 18 got injured. However, the police claimed that they are yet to identify the deceased and injured. Meanwhile, human rights activists and tribal leaders of Bastar demanded strict action against the officers who ordered firing on Monday and a high-level probe into the matter. Madvi claimed that all three who died were farmers and not Maoists. “The whole thing started when policemen started beating people with lathis and they started running behind. Suddenly, some heard firing and then entered the forest... Later, three were found dead. Since the protest started, they were beating us with lathis,” said another villager, who did not wish to be named. On May 14, villagers from around 10-12 villages began their agitation against the Silger police camp which became operational on May 12. “We don’t want police camps here, instead we want schools, doctors and other basic things. As soon as the camp opens the tribals are tortured and booked under false cases. In coming days, we will be falsely implicated in Maoist cases and would be sent to jail,” said Nandaram Markam, a villager. Bela Bhatia, a human rights activist working in the Bastar region, demanded an enquiry and FIR against the officers who ordered the firing on villagers. “The police and security forces in Bastar are forgetting that they are accountable to the citizens. If the higher officials in the police hierarchy cover up their subordinates’ crimes, shouldn’t they also be seen to be complicit? What has occurred is very serious. An impartial enquiry should be conducted as soon as possible and FIRs should be lodged against those responsible for the order and action,” said Bhatia. Inspector-General of Police, Bastar Range, Sunderaj P, refuted the allegations and claimed that Maoists were taking the villagers as their shield during the protest. “This was a Maoist-compelled protest against the police camp because they don’t want camp in their core area. The protest ended on Sunday night but the Maoists forced the innocent villagers to return on Monday,” said Suderaj claiming that the identification of the deceased is underway but the police have reasons to believe that they were Janmilitia members of CPI (Maoists). Denying the claims of police assault, the IG said that first aggression and fire came from the Maoists of Jagargunda and Pamed Area Committee who were hiding among the villagers and the police was forced to fire in return. The Silgar camp is located eight to ten kilometres away from the site of the Maoist attack that took place on April 3 in Sukma district where 22 security personnel were killed. Tribal leader Soni Sori said that the opening of camps amid the pandemic is not justified both for the tribals and the security forces.“I will comment over the exchange of fire only after meeting the villagers but there is no need of camps in Bastar now,” said Sori.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/a-day-after-3-died-in-police-firing-in-sukma-villagers-say-their-protest-was-peaceful-101621339635073.html
18-05-2021||Pune||Civic Sanskriti: To live to 80, #love30... kmph, that is||Need for Speed. Fast cars. The Rat Race. The city that moves. We’ve glorified speed. Sometimes speed is essential – ambulances can save lives. Rapid response to crises is crucial. But, speed is known to kill:-The likelihood that a pedestrian will die if hit by a car travelling at 30 kilometres per hour (kmph), is less than 10%. -The certainty that a pedestrian will die when hit by a car moving at 50 kmph is more than 80%. Speeding on roads may be causing more than 67% of the deaths in cases of road accidents in India. The speed permitted by the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways in urban areas is 70 kmph. However, urban roads in our cities can’t be designed for 70 kmph, like highways. No wonder, globally, India has the worst record on road safety. The message of the UN Global Road Safety week, from May 17 to May 22, is “Love 30”, signifying that 30kmph, maximum, should be the default speed in residential areas. Road safety advocates Pranjali Deshpande, Ranjit Gadgil and Harshad Abhyankar, suggest a few key measures, to be taken up jointly by PMC, PCMC, traffic police and highways authorities. 1) Safe pedestrian paths and crossing facilities, speed control by traffic calming measures like raised pedestrian crossings, change of road texture, rumble strips and use of roundabouts, as recommended by the Transport Research and Injury Prevention Programme (TRIPP) at IIT Delhi.2) Special safety features and designs based on the road hierarchy for different kinds of roads, and zones which require a higher degree of care, such as schools and hospitals.3) Review road safety in every ward, with neighbourhood groups, and especially with children, women, people with disabilities, pedestrians and cyclists; and introduce signage and traffic calming measures. 4) In line with the recommendation by the UN and WHO, speed limits on roads in Pune should be 30 kmph or lower.5) The speed limit on arterial roads may be increased to 40 or 50 kmph, after a road safety audit and implementing safe road design and management systems to prevent fatalities.6) Widespread publicity of the speed limit.7) Widespread and effective enforcement by Traffic Police.It is appreciable that the municipal road department has already initiated construction of pedestrian crossings at certain locations. Such measures must be in place on priority as they help to save lives. TRIPP suggests that the 30 kmph limit in residential areas may be enforced by the judicious use of speed breakers and roundabouts. Arterial roads may have 40 to 50 kmph limits, enforced by road design and police monitoring. Service lanes along all four-lane highways and expressways should be constructed for use by low-speed and non-motorised traffic. In some time, when lock-downs are lifted, can the city that emerges be a slightly slower, friendlier, more humane city? Many of us have faced so much loss already. The lockdowns have also slowed the pace of life. We want to move forward, post-Covid. Yet, let us not lose the lessons from last year - when lockdowns were lifted, there was a surge in road accidents. Roads with lighter traffic and poor lighting, with speeding vehicles, may be the most dangerous post-lockdown.This time, if any safety measures can be constructed in advance of the re-opening, that would be best. Otherwise, when lockdowns are lifted, traffic calming measures with barricades can be used as an immediate measure on city roads and highways, to be followed by proper road safety measures. Our political leaders, the municipal administration and Traffic Police must show us the leadership we need to save lives through a city-level road safety strategy followed by concerted action. A “safe system” approach to road and traffic management with all relevant authorities acting together to enable mobility without deaths and serious injuries is what Pune urgently needs. Speedy adoption of this approach will save lives!Those interested in joining initiatives by local NGOs may get in touch with this writer for taking up and strengthening neighbourhood road safety plans and actions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/civic-sanskriti-to-live-to-80-love30-kmph-that-is-101621339335622.html
18-05-2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand hospitals warned against masking Covid-19 deaths, data||Uttarakhand hospitals’ failure to report at least 200 Covid-19 related deaths has led to a warning by health experts against the “masking” of data, saying, it’s continuation could adversely affect the fight against the pandemic in the hill state.The warning comes after the state health department noticed that at least five hospitals and health facilities treating Covid-19 patients didn’t report at least 200 Covid-19 deaths to the state control room in violation of the protocol.Baba Barfani Hospital in Haridwar didn’t report 65 Covid-19 deaths between April 25 and May 2; district hospital Rudrapur too hid as many deaths between April 28 and May 7; Military Hospital Roorkee didn’t report 28 deaths over the last one year; Covid care centre in Raipur near Dehradun didn’t report 27 deaths between April 26 and May 16 and BHEL Hospital Haridwar didn’t report 15 deaths between April 29 and May 12, according to the health department.Baba Barfani Hospital was the first to be issued a notice for under reporting of deaths following which, other hospitals came forward with details of unreported Covid-19 deaths, said officials.Health experts have termed the practice very dangerous. Secretary of Indian Medical Association’s Uttarakhand chapter, Dr Ajay Khanna, said, “Masking of Covid-19 data, especially of the deaths, should be shunned at any cost. The data from the hospital as well as the government should be transparent because it will enable the doctors and experts to fight the virus more efficiently.”He pointed out that even the WHO has warned against it. “Reporting them transparently and factually will help in implementing the cardinal principle of test, track and treat, essential to contain the infection,” Dr Khanna added.Another IMA functionary Dr DD Choudhury, who is the national vice president of the body, said, “The most essential thing in the fight against the virus is data. It should not be fudged or hidden at any end because science is based on data and facts.”The Congress party claimed the state government was hiding Covid-19 data to cover-up its “failure.”“It’s not just the hospitals but also the government, which has been hiding the data to cover up its gross mismanagement and failure. It is playing with the life of people to improve its public relation by portraying that everything is under control when it’s not.”The state health department said that the hospitals claimed that “they had been reporting the deaths manually but not on the Covid portal.”Uttarakhand Covid Control Room’s chief controlling officer Dr Abhishek said they have issued a notice to Baba Barfani hospital seeking to know why it didn’t report the deaths on a daily basis.“All the hospitals in the state have been told to ensure they provide detailed figures of admissions and deaths on a daily basis to the control room. If anyone violates the protocol..., then action would be taken against them, including cancellation of the registration,” he said.According to the state health department bulletin, Uttarakhand’s Covid-19 tally stood at 291,005 on Monday, when 3,719 fresh infections were reported along with136 deaths over the last 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/uttarakhand-hospitals-warned-against-masking-covid-19-deaths-data-101621337953627.html
18-05-2021||Chandigarh||Live-in-relationships morally, socially unacceptable, says Punjab and Haryana HC||The Punjab and Haryana High Court has said a live-in-relationship is morally and socially unacceptable while dismissing a petition filed by a runaway couple seeking protection.Petitioners Gulza Kumari (19) and Gurwinder Singh (22) in the petition had stated that they were residing together and intended to get married shortly.They had apprehended danger to their lives from Kumari's parents."As a matter of fact, the petitioners in the garb of filing the present petition are seeking seal of approval on their live-in-relationship, which is morally and socially not acceptable and no protection order in the petition can be passed. The petition stands dismissed accordingly," Justice H S Madaan said in his May 11 order.According to petitioner's counsel J S Thakur, Singh and Kumari were living together in Tarn Taran district.He said Kumari's parents, who are in Ludhiana, did not approve of their relationship.The couple could not get married as Kumari's documents, which have details of her age, were in possession of her family, Thakur added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/liveinrelationships-morally-socially-unacceptable-says-punjab-and-haryana-hc-101621336028248.html
18-05-2021||Chandigarh||Jalandhar private hospital’s Covid facility suspended for overcharging||The Jalandhar district administration on Tuesday suspended the level-2 Covid care facility at a private hospital after a preliminary report submitted by the health authorities flagged malpractices, including overcharging. Deputy commissioner Ghanshyam Thori said that family members of a Covid patient, who died at Shamsher Hospital, complained of malpractices following which an inquiry was marked. The health authorities recommended suspension of level-2 facility for new admissions at the hospital as penalty. Also read: Black marketing of Covid drugs: Here’s what 9 politicians told the Delhi PoliceThori said a four-member committee was set up to probe discrepancies in drug procurement and distribution as alleged in the complaint. The committee will submit its report within three days. It comprises the sub divisional magistrate-1, civil surgeon, zonal licensing authority, and senior medical officer, Wadala. The complainant alleged that the patient was admitted to the hospital’s level-2 Covid care ward without an RT-PCR test. He was given treatment that is only given to level-3 patients and that too after consulting experts. FIR against private lab for overcharging The Jalandhar district administration also recommended that a case be registered against a private lab, Atulaya Laboratory, for overcharging for Covid-19 tests. Assistant commissioner (grievances) Randeep Singh wrote to the commissioner of police, Jalandhar, recommending the laboratory be booked under the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1987, and the National Disaster Management Act, 2005. The district-level committee found that the lab charged ₹1,200 for the Covid-19 test and ₹1,500 for home collection of samples, while the Punjab government has fixed ₹900 as the charge for conducting the Covid test.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jalandhar-private-hospital-s-covid-facility-suspended-for-overcharging-101621336633777.html
18-05-2021||Mumbai||BMC extends Covid vaccine global tender deadline by a week||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Tuesday extended the deadline for its global tender for vaccine supply to Mumbai by a week, to May 25. The decision came in the wake of the civic body failing to get any response from Covid-19 vaccine manufacturers as the deadline of May 18 ended.The BMC has planned to procure 10 million vaccine doses from the international market in order to speed up the vaccination drive in city. For this, it floated global expression of interest on May 12 and the last date of bidding was May 18.Also Read | Bandra-Worli sea link now open for commute, tweets BMCA BMC official confirmed on Tuesday, “We have extended the last date of participation by another week as we would like to give more time to the market to respond.”P Velrasu, additional municipal commissioner of the BMC, had told HT a day ago, “We have not got any response yet, and we are likely to extend the last date for bidding by one more week. We expect the market to respond once we give the extension.”According to officials, any interested supplier can bid for the tender. However, China has been restricted from bidding. Further, the vaccines that do not have Centre’s approval will have to get the same on their own, according to BMC’s tender document.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bmcextends-covid-vaccine-global-tender-deadline-by-a-week-101621334353510.html
18-05-2021||Delhi||Stop Singapore flights, Kejriwal tells Centre amid concerns of new Covid strain||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday requested the Centre to suspend flights to and from Singapore with immediate effect in the wake of a new strain detected in that country which is suspected to affect more children. Kejriwal said this new Singapore strain could mark the advent of the third wave of Covid-19 in the country and urged the Centre to give priority to identifying vaccines for children to fight the virus.Also Read | 270 doctors have died of Covid-19 in second wave of pandemic: IMAKejriwal’s comments came in the wake of a new strain of Covid-19 detected in Singapore, forcing it to shut schools from Wednesday as it is suspected to affect more children, like the Indian strain of the virus.सिंगापुर में आया कोरोना का नया रूप बच्चों के लिए बेहद ख़तरनाक बताया जा रहा है, भारत में ये तीसरी लहर के रूप में आ सकता है।केंद्र सरकार से मेरी अपील:1. सिंगापुर के साथ हवाई सेवाएं तत्काल प्रभाव से रद्द हों2. बच्चों के लिए भी वैक्सीन के विकल्पों पर प्राथमिकता के आधार पर काम हो“The new form of Covid-19 that has come to Singapore is being said to be extremely dangerous for children. In India, it may come as a third wave. My appeal to the Central government: 1. Air services with Singapore be cancelled with immediate effect 2. Priority on vaccine options should be worked out for children too,” the chief minister said in a tweet in Hindi.Singapore warned on Sunday that the new coronavirus variants, such as the one first detected in India, were affecting more children, as the city-state prepared to shut most schools from this week and drew up plans to vaccinate youngsters.All primary, secondary and junior colleges will shift to full home-based learning from Wednesday until the end of the school term on May 28."Some of these (virus) mutations are much more virulent, and they seem to attack the younger children," said education minister Chan Chun Sing.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/stop-singapore-flights-kejriwal-tells-centre-amid-concerns-of-new-covid-strain-101621331713611.html
18-05-2021||Pune||Army officer arrested for recruitment paper leak in Feb sent to police custody||PUNE: A Lieutenant Colonel-rank army officer arrested for his alleged involvement in the army recruitment question paper leak case has been remanded in police custody till May 25. The officer, identified in court documents as Lt Col Bhagat Preetsingh Sartajsingh Bedi, was remanded in police custody by Pune’s additional sessions judge SR Navander on Tuesday.Lt Col Bedi is the third serving army officer - the other two hold the rank of Major - to be arrested in two cases related to the question paper leak. In all, 12 people have been arrested.A senior Pune police officer said the army had handed over Lt Col Bedi, 44, to the police after its internal inquiry established his alleged role. “An internal inquiry was conducted by the Indian Army and then he was handed over to us,” said Pune’s assistant commissioner of police, crime, Laxman Borate.Borate said the police needed his custody to recover the mobile phone that the officer had used to allegedly leak the question paper. He said the army did hand over the mobile phone that the officer was currently using but this wasn’t the one that he used to leak the question paper. “We have to recover that phone”.The army’s recruitment exam, scheduled to be held on February 28, was cancelled at the last minute after the army’s military intelligence team and the crime branch of Pune police carried out a joint operation that revealed question papers of the common entrance exam for recruitment of general duty soldiers were being sold for ₹4-5 lakh.Borate said Lt Col Bedi was arrested after he was named as the source of the question paper by Vira Prasad Kotiswamy, 41, a storekeeper posted in Delhi. Kotiswamy was arrested on May 15 and is also in police custody.Public prosecutor Premkumar Agarwal said Lt Col Bedi had breached protocol that required him to not use his phone.“He was the presiding officer on the committee that decides on the matters related to the question paper. A CD is provided to the presiding officer and the password is also provided to open the CD. The use of phones is not expected in this process. He used his phone and sent the question paper,” said PP Agarwal.Lt Col Bedi’s lawyer Sudhir Shah, however, insisted that Lt Col Bedi is innocent and his name hadn’t even appeared in the charge sheet filed by the police. “The case was registered on March 1. The charge sheet has been filed. But his name does not figure in the charge sheet,” said Sudhir Shah.The Pune police had filed two FIRs, one at Vishrantwadi police station and the second at Wanowrie police station, on March 1 for the leak that led to the cancellation of the recruitment exam. Nearly 30,000 aspirants were scheduled to appear for the exam across 40 centres.Two Major-rank officers, Major Murugan Thangavelu,47, and Major Vasant Vijay Kilari, 45, were arrested earlier in the Wanowrie case apart from Kishore Mahadev Giri , 40, of Baramati; Madhav Sheshrao Gitte, 38, of Sappers Vihar colony in Pune; Bharat Lakshman Adakmol, 37, from Pune’s Pachora; Gopal Yuvraj Koli, 31, of BEG Centre in Dighi; and Uday Dattu Auti, 23, a resident of BEG Khadki. The suspects arrested in Vishrantwadi were identified by the police as Ali Akhtar Khan, 47, Azad Lal Mohammed Khan, 37, and Mahendra Chandrabhan, 37.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/army-officer-arrested-for-recruitment-paper-leak-in-feb-sent-to-police-custody-101621328953334.html
18-05-2021||Mumbai||Coast guard rescues 47 crew members from barge Gal Constructor off Palghar coast||The coast guard on Tuesday rescued 47 crew members onboard the Oil and Natural Gas Commission (ONGC) barge named Gal Constructor which was drifting north after it lost power due to Cyclone Tauktae. The barge, which had around 137 crew members onboard, was at about 48 nautical miles north off Colaba while rescue operations continued, said coast guard officials.The rescue was made near Vadrai in Satpati in Maharashtra’s Palghar district with the help of two choppers. More sorties will be made to rescue the remaining 90 crew onboard, said a senior coast guard official. A Naval chopper has also been pressed into service to airlift the crew, said Coast Guard chief public relations officer (CPRO) commander Mehul Karnik.He said two Chetak choppers from the coast guard’s base at Daman swung into action and reached the spot along with coast guard ship Samrat amidst very rough and inclement weather conditions due to the cyclone.The Indian Navy has deployed three warships in high sea for search and rescue (SAR) assistance of two ships — barge P305 and barge GAL Constructor — with 410 people on board, after they were stranded in Bombay High due to Cyclone Tauktae on Monday afternoon. INS Kochi, INS Kolkata and INS Talwar have been pressed into carrying out the rescue operations.Barge P305 went adrift off Heera Oil Fields in the Bombay High area on Monday when the cyclone hit the area. After getting an alert from the barge, the navy launched the rescue operation, which is still going on. About 150 out of the 273 people on-board P305 have been rescued while the remaining were on life jacket support and efforts were being made to rescue them.The Indian Navy and Indian Coast Guard (ICG) were on high alert as severe cyclonic storm Tauktae passed the Mumbai coast to hit Gujarat coast in Saurashtra region between Diu and Una on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/coast-guard-rescues-47-crew-members-from-barge-gal-constructor-off-palghar-coast-101621328353298.html
18-05-2021||Chandigarh||Dera chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim seeks parole to meet ailing mother||Dera Sacha Sauda sect chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh, who is undergoing a 20-year jail sentence for raping two followers, has sought parole of 21 days to look after his ailing mother, prison officials said on Tuesday. Sunaria jail superintendent Suneel Sangwan said: “We have written to Haryana Police and Sirsa district administration to verify whether the dera chief’s mother is ill or not. We have also asked the Sirsa district administration to clarify whether there is any law and order threat or not after releasing him.” Also read: Bargari sacrilege: 6 dera men sent to 4-day police custodyThe Dera Sacha Sauda chief was given a day’s parole to meet his ailing mother on October 24, 2020. State jails minister Ranjit Singh had justified the parole at that time, saying it was given as per the law. Ram Rahim’s mother was admitted in a Gurugram hospital at that time. “There is a provision under the law that in case of an emergency in the family of a convict the prisoner is allowed to visit his family under police protection. He was taken under full police protection after the government had taken into consideration all aspects,” Ranjit Singh had said. Last week, Gurmeet Ram Rahim had been hospitalised at Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences in Rohtak after his blood pressure dipped in the jail. He was discharged when all his health parameters were found to be in the normal range the next day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dera-chief-gurmeet-ram-rahim-seeks-parole-to-meet-ailing-mother-101621328173254.html
18-05-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka requests Centre to set up Covid Care Centers with assistance of DRDO||The Karnataka government has urged the Centre to consider setting up Covid Care Centers in the state with the help of the Ministry of Defence or Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO). In a a letter to Union Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, Deputy Chief Minister Laxman Savadi said the Department of Defence has a large land bank in Bengaluru and Belagavi, which is suitable for the said cause. Referring to DRDO's initiative in setting up exclusive Covid hospitals and medical centers in Delhi, Lucknow, Varanasi and Ahmedabad, he said due to a surge in coronavirus cases in Karnataka, hospitals here are facing tremendous pressure and overloaded. Setting up of such covid treatment centers in Bengaluru and Belagavi will not only help patients in the region but will further ease the pressure on existing hospitals and medical professionals, Savadi noted and requested the Defence Minister to kindly consider it on priority basis. Karnataka on Monday registered 38,603 new cases of Covid-19 and 476 fatalities, taking the total infection count to 22.42 lakh and the toll to 22,313. Out of the 38,603 fresh cases reported, 13,338 were from Bengaluru Urban alone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-requests-centre-to-set-up-covid-care-centers-with-assistance-of-drdo-101621327467192.html
18-05-2021||Lucknow||Lucknow gurdwara’s oxygen langar gets generous donations from Hindus, Muslims||The Alambagh gurdwara in Lucknow said oxygen ‘langars’ will begin next week in Ayodhya, Unnao and Sitapur districts to help out needy Covid-19 patients amid the second wave of the disease, which has cramped the healthcare infrastructure in the state. The gurdwara management added that their charity had received massive support from both Hindu and Muslim communities, making it a truly humanitarian effort transcending the boundaries of religion. The Alambagh Gurdwara said it received several oxygen cylinders as ‘zakat’ from Muslims during Eid, while Hindus too have donated oxygen cylinders apart from ration kits and hearse vans. Zakat is a form of obligatory charity, which Muslims believe cleanses and blesses their wealth.“The pandemic has brought all the communities closer. Muslims have donated oxygen cylinders to us during Eid. While the Loha Vyapar Mandal has donated several cylinders, the Lucknow Jewellers’ Association has donated ration kits. Sandeep Singh Anant has donated a hearse bus to the gurdwara,” said Nirmal Singh, president of Alambagh Gurdwara. He said the gurdwara in turn had donated more than 800 oxygen cylinders and 4,000 ration kits so far. “With help pouring in from all communities, the ‘oxygen langar’ will start in Unnao Gurudwara on Tuesday and [it] will also begin soon in Ayodhya and Sitapur this week,” Nirmal Singh added. Langar, a word associated with community kitchens serving free food in gurudwaras, is also being used to indicate free distribution of life-saving oxygen cylinders to Covid patients. To avail the benefits, residents will have to give an application to the gurdwara with the doctor’s prescription, Covid and pathology reports, Aadhaar cards of both the patient and the attendant on WhatsApp numbers 9554822225 and 9670888333. Along with medical oxygen, the Alambagh Gurudwara management has also arranged for home delivery of food for Covid-19 infected patients. “We have prepared kits of 10 kg wheat flour, 4 kg rice, 2 kg pulses, 2 kg ghee, 1 kg oil, spices of 4 kinds and a salt packet weighing 1 kg. We deliver kits to the needy, but they have to provide details like aadhaar card, ration card, so that we can keep a record of the beneficiaries.” “We will continue to provide oxygen to Covid patients till things normalize,” he added.Uttar Pradesh on Monday reported 285 coronavirus deaths as 9,391 fresh cases surfaced, taking the state’s infection tally to 16,28,990, a government bulletin said. So far, 17,817 people have died from the infection in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lucknow-gurdwara-s-oxygen-langar-gets-generous-donations-from-hindus-muslims-101621325893193.html
18-05-2021||Mumbai||Cyclone Tauktae: Bandra-Worli sea link now open for commute, tweets BMC||The BrihanMumbai Muncipal Corporation (BMC) announced on Tuesday that the Bandra-Worli sea link has now been opened for commute. It was closed in the wake of Cyclone Tauktae, which wreaked havoc in coastal districts of Maharashtra."Dear Mumbaikars, Bandra-Worli sea link is now open to commute," a tweet from the BMC said.Dear Mumbaikars, Bandra-Worli sea link is now open to commute.#MyBMCUpdates #CycloneTauktaeUpdatesThe Bandra-Worli sea link was closed for traffic on Monday in view of the strong winds and people were asked to take alternate routes.Gusty winds reaching the speed of 114 kmph and heavy showers lashed Mumbai and its neighbouring areas on Monday as the "very severe cyclonic storm" Tauktae passed close to the coast while moving towards Gujarat. Many trees were uprooted and local train services disrupted.At least 16 people were killed as the cyclone brushed past the coastal states of Kerala, Karnataka, Goa and Maharashtra, authorities said.Water-logging occurred at 13 locations in Mumbai and at seven spots in the western suburbs, according to the BMC.The city recorded a minimum temperature of 23.7 degrees Celsius, four degrees below normal, after heavy rains caused by the cyclone. Some parts of the city registered over 300mm of rainfall in 24 hours as of 8.30am on Tuesday.According to Shubhangi Bhute, senior director at Mumbai office of the India Meteorological Department (IMD), the highest wind speed of 108 km per hour was recorded at the Colaba observatory on Monday afternoon.Flight operations at Mumbai airport remained suspended for 11 hours before resuming on Monday night. More than 55 flights, both incoming and outbound, were cancelled during the time the airport remained shut.Tauktae has, meanwhile, weakened on Tuesday as it crossed Gujarat. More than 200,000 people were evacuated from their homes in Gujarat and authorities shut ports and major airports as the cyclone made landfall late on Monday, packing gusts of up to 210 kmph.The cyclone which was categorised as "extremely severe" weakened to a "very severe" storm after making landfall, the IMD said. The intensity is set to reduce further in the next few hours, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bandraworli-sea-link-now-open-for-commute-tweets-bmc-101621323794908.html
18-05-2021||Delhi||Hospitalisations drop, over 700 ICU beds in Delhi vacant: Govt’s Corona app||Over 700 or 11.5% of intensive care unit (ICU) beds reserved for Covid-19 patients in the national Capital were vacant as of Monday evening, according to the government’s Delhi Corona app. This is the highest vacancy in the city since the second week of April when the infections were surging, and largely because of the creation of additional beds. Hospitals are still reporting full ICUs as Delhi reported over 20,000 cases daily for 16 consecutive days during the current surge in infections in April.The number of hospitalisations in the city reduced to 15,500 on Monday as per the government’s daily health bulletin.“With fewer new cases being reported now, overall, the situation in hospitals has improved. The wards, oxygen beds, and emergency department are freeing up. However, the ICUs continue to be full. And this is because the duration of hospital stays for those who enter the ICU once is about three weeks. The ICU occupancy is likely to start going down in another 10 days or so,” said Dr Sumit Ray, medical superintendent, Holy Family Hospital. He added the higher mortality during the second wave was mainly because hospitals were overwhelmed.Also Read | 270 doctors have died of Covid-19 in second wave of pandemic: IMAThe ICU beds reserved for Covid-19 patients went up from just over 3,000 on April 12 to 6,376 as of Monday evening. There were 5,150 ICU beds on May 3, when the highest number of hospitalisations were reported.There has been an increase in the CU beds in Delhi government-run hospitals such as Guru Teg Bahadur (GTB) Hospital and Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital, where the number of beds had to be reduced at the peak of the wave because of the shortage of oxygen. GTB Hospital increased its beds from 750 on May 12 to 1,150 on Monday evening. They include 800 ICU beds. The Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital had 350 beds in the May first week. The number went up to 475, including 325 ICU beds, on Monday. Beds have also been added to the extensions of Lok Nayak Hospital and GTB Hospital.Several private hospitals have also increased the number of ICU beds. The government has also added 250 oxygen beds to its Indira Gandhi Hospital in Dwarka.Dr SCL Gupta, medical superintendent, Batra Hospital, said for the last four to five days, the occupancy at the hospital has gone down by around 20%. “However, the ICU situation is still bad; most of the patients continue to need extensive care.”A doctor at the Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital said they only have the most critical patients admitted to the hospital ICU. “...most of the others have been discharged.”The number of beds for Covid-19 patients has also increased from just over 21,000 at the beginning of the month to 27,610 on Monday evening. The additional beds are mostly in Covid Care Centres that can manage mild to moderate cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/over-700-icu-beds-in-delhi-vacant-hospitalisations-also-drop-govt-s-corona-app-101621323673271.html
18-05-2021||Kolkata||Madan Mitra, Sovan Chatterjee admitted to hospital after breathing problem||A day after four Trinamool Congress (TMC) leaders were arrested by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) in the Narada scam, party's MLA Madan Mitra and former leader Sovan Chatterjee were admitted to SSKM Hospital in Kolkata after they suffered from breathlessness in the wee hours of Tuesday.TMC MLA Madan Mitra and Former Minister Sovan Chatterjee were admitted to SSKM hospital's Woodburn block due to breathing problem at around 3 am.CBI on Monday arrested TMC ministers Firhad Hakim, Subrata Mukherjee, MLA Madan Mitra and former Kolkata Mayor Sovan Chatterjee in connection with the Narada sting operation.The leaders were taken to Presidency Jail last night.Earlier on Monday, a team of doctors arrived at the CBI's office for a medical check-up of four TMC leaders who were arrested, in connection with Narada Scam.On Monday evening, following the commotion revolving around the Narada scam, several TMC protesters pelted stones on security forces outside the CBI office.West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee took cognizance of the matter and addressed the reporters by saying, "Court will give the decision", as she left from the CBI office.The Narada sting operation was conducted by Narada news founder Mathew Samuel for over two years in West Bengal. Conducted allegedly in 2014 for the news magazine Tehelka, it was published on a private news website Narada News months before the 2016 West Bengal Assembly elections.The case is related to a sting operation, commonly known as Narada Sting Operation, in which these former public servants were caught on camera while receiving illegal gratification from the Sting Operator, Samuel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/madan-mitra-sovan-chatterjee-admitted-to-hospital-after-breathing-problem-101621320788027.html
18-05-2021||Mumbai||Rains exceed 300mm in parts of Mumbai, mercury to rise sharply today||Mumbai recorded a minimum temperature of 23.7 degrees Celsius (°C), four degrees below normal, after heavy rains caused by Cyclone Tauktae. Some parts of the city registered over 300mm of rainfall within 24 hours as of 8.30am on Tuesday.The India Meteorological Department said Santacruz received the maximum rainfall (230.3 mm). Its weather station in Colaba recorded 207.6 mm of rain. Thane and Palghar districts recorded 89.9mm and 294 mm of rain.Also Read | Naval ships rescue 146 on-board sinking barge in Bombay High areaAfter the maximum temperature on Monday dropped to a record low of 26.7°C, the temperatures were expected to rise sharply. The IMD’s seven-day forecast said the maximum temperature was expected to be around 31°C. “With the high levels of humidity following the storm, the atmosphere will get quite muggy today, though intermittent rains and drizzles could bring some relief,” said an IMD meteorologist.Wind velocity, too, slowed down considerably during the night, dropping to as low as 25 to 30 kmph in some places, said officials with the IMD’s Regional Forecasting Centre, Mumbai. This was down from record-breaking speeds of 114kmph the previous day at about 2 pm just as Cyclone Tauktae was skirting past the city. “Though wind speeds of up to 40 kmph are predicted in some parts of the city today, they may happen as isolated gusts and, on the whole, the wind speeds will keep reducing through the day,” said the official quoted above.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/rains-exceed-300mm-in-parts-of-mumbai-mercury-to-rise-sharply-today-101621320853063.html
18-05-2021||Patna||Bihar doctors requested to donate more to help doctors dying of Covid-19||Doctors in Bihar have been requested to donate generously to help families of doctors dying due to Covid-19, following a moderate collection of ₹11 lakh from the state. The Covid Martyrs Fund set up by the Indian Medical Association (IMA) has collected ₹1.94 crore till May 13 and disbursed almost half of it-- ₹80,00,000 to the families of eight doctors, including one from Bihar.“Making a donation is the ultimate sign of solidarity. Actions speak louder than words. Please donate generously to IMA Covid Martyrs Fund,” IMA’s Bihar chapter appealed on May 13.Gujarat, with ₹45.95 lakh and Delhi with ₹35.34 lakh, are the two top donors followed by Maharashtra- ₹30.07 lakh, Kerala- ₹19.29 lakh, Haryana- ₹18.20 lakh and Uttar Pradesh- ₹16.47 lakh that have contributed more than Bihar. Many states including Telangana- ₹2.54 lakh, Punjab- ₹1.01 lakh, Uttarakhand- ₹5,000 and West Bengal- ₹500 have made even smaller contributions, shows IMA data, available till May 13.IMA president-elect Dr Sahajanand Prasad Singh accepted that mobilising funds had not been easy.“We are trying to persuade our doctors to contribute generously,” he said.“Given the paucity of funds, the IMA shortlists beneficiaries based on the recommendation of its respective state unit. Families of two more doctors from Bihar are in the queue to receive the compensation of Rs10,00,000 each,” he said.The senior vice-president of IMA’s Bihar chapter Dr Ajay Kumar said only a dozen odd doctors out of the 10,000 registered IMA members in Bihar had contributed to the corpus so far.“Dr Devi Ram, a physician in Purnia, has contributed ₹5 lakh, the highest from Bihar so far,” he said.Dr Rajiv Ranjan Prasad, former president of IMA-Bihar, suggested IMA's "questionable" credibility could be the reason for the lukewarm response."IMA is a social organisation of doctors that has been hijacked by a group of people who do not have mass appeal. This is the reason their appeal has either no meaning or less bearing on its members," said Dr Prasad.However, former president of the state IMA, Dr Sachchidanand Kumar, held a different view. "Doctors are farsighted and even willing to spend money when it comes to furtherment of their personal gains. However, they have a myopic vision when it comes to contributing to the cause of someone else," he said.At Least 121 doctors in Bihar, including 39 in the first wave last year and 82 in the second one this year, have died till Monday, May 16, due to Covid-19, said Dr Kumar. Only four of these have got compensation from the state government so far, amplifying the problem, he adds.He also rued the fact that the Centre was not considering ex-gratia for private sector doctors. “Of the 121 doctors who have died so far, around 70 are from the private sector,” said Dr Kumar.The Center has given ₹50 lakh insurance cover to doctors fighting Covid-19, while the state promised an ex-gratia of ₹4 lakh to Covid victims.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-doctors-requested-to-donate-more-to-help-doctors-dying-of-covid19-101621320133273.html
18-05-2021||Bangalore||PM, Yediyurappa greet Deve Gowda on his 88th birthday||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa joined several others in greeting JDS Supremo H D Deve Gowda, who turned 88 on Tuesday. Modi called up the former Prime Minister this morning to wish him. "I thank Hon'ble Prime Minister @narendramodi avaru for calling me early this morning to wish me for my birthday. I pray to God to give him the strength to lead our nation during this crisis caused by the pandemic," Gowda tweeted. In his message, Yediyurappa said, "Best wishes to veteran politician and former Prime Minister H D Deve Gowda on his birthday. May God bless you." Leader of Opposition Siddaramaiah in a tweet said, "Happy birthday to former Prime Minister and senior leader of JD(S) H D Deve Gowda. May you be blessed with long life and good health. May your experience guide the state and the country." Many union and state ministers, leaders cutting across political parties wished Gowda on his birthday. The veteran appealed to his followers not to celebrate his birthday, saying it was not the right time for congregations. He has asked them to provide relief to Covid affected people of the state. Born on May 18, 1933 in a remote village of Haradanahalli in Hassan district, the JD(S) supremo had served as the Prime Minister of India for 10 months from June 1996 to April 1997. PT||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/pm-yediyurappa-greet-deve-gowda-on-his-88th-birthday-101621318309318.html
18-05-2021||Mumbai||Naval ships rescue 146 on-board sinking barge in Bombay High area||The navy rescued 146 out of 273 people on-board a barge as it was sinking during cyclone Tauktae while the remaining 127 people were on life jacket support and efforts were being made to rescue them.The barge went adrift off Heera Oil Fields in the Bombay High area on Monday when the cyclone hit the area. After getting an alert from the barge, the navy launched the rescue operation, which is still going on.A helicopter was sent from INS Shikra, Mumbai, to support the rescue efforts. The search and rescue operation has been carried out by warships INS Kochi and INS Kolkata with the help of other offshore support vessels like Greatship Ahalya and Ocean Energy in extreme weather conditions and very rough seas.Click here for LIVE Updates of Cyclone TauktaeThe operation continued throughout the night and 111 people were rescued by INS Kochi and INS Kolkata. As many as 17 and 18 people were rescued respectively by Greatship Ahilya and Ocean Energy till 6 am on Tuesday, said commander Mehul Karnik, chief public relation officer of the western naval command.He added another barge, Gal Constructor, with 137 persons onboard has run aground about 48 nautical miles north off Colaba. An emergency towing vessel, Water Lily, along with two support vessels and Coast Guard ship Samrat are in the vicinity to provide assistance and for evacuation of crew members, added Karnik.Karnik said INS Talwar is proceeding to assist oil rig Sagar Bhushan with 101 personnel onboard and a barge with 196 personnel. He said both of them are adrift and about 50 nautical miles southeast off Pipavav Port. He added the search and rescue efforts will continue through the day with more naval vessels are ready to augment them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/naval-ships-rescue-146-on-board-sinking-barge-in-bombay-high-area-101621317553201.html
18-05-2021||Patna||86 inmates found Covid-19 positive at Bihar jail||At least 86 inmates at Bihar’s Chanave jail were found Covid-19 positive on Monday, officials said and added they have been kept under isolation on the prison premises, which was being sanitised. The jail houses around 2,000 prisoners and around 150 of them were tested.Officials said jail authorities have formed a special team of doctors to conduct regular health checks.Amit Kumar, the jail superintendent, said medicines have been provided to the infected inmates and if required, they will be shifted to the nearest Covid Care Centre. “We have sought directives from the prison directorate for shifting the prisoners to other jails,” said Kumar. He added the testing of the remaining inmates will be carried out in a day or two.Also Read | India records highest single-day fatalities since the onset of Covid-19 pandemicDr Awinash Kumar, who led the team that found Covid-19 symptoms among the inmates, said the infected prisoners have been isolated in a special ward and medical teams have been deputed to treat them. “All precautions for prevention of the spread of the infection are being taken. We have conducted tests on inmates as well as staffers immediately after seeing symptoms. Early testing and treatment are very important, which we are ensuring.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/86-inmates-found-covid-19-positive-at-bihar-jail-101621316232892.html
18-05-2021||Patna||Dalit boys beaten, paraded for theft in Bihar, six arrested||Three Dalit boys were allegedly stripped down to undergarments, beaten up, and paraded in a village in Bihar’s Gaya district on a local Panchayat’s orders over the weekend for “stealing batteries” from a shop, police said.The incident came to light on Sunday after a video clip of the assault went viral. The clip purportedly shows the boys being forced to do sit-ups, run around in circles as some villagers film the humiliation on their mobile phones, police said. The assault on Saturday triggered tensions in the village, but the situation was brought under control through a meeting between community leaders, they added.Gaya’s senior police superintendent Aditya Kumar said a special investigation team has been formed to look into the incident under police superintendent Rakesh Kumar. He added Mohammad Sheru Alam, the shop owner, Mohammad Zinnat, Mohammad Tezu, Amarjeet Singh, Mohammad Nasir, and Mohammad Akhtar have been arrested in the case.They have been booked under Indian Penal Code’s Sections 341 (wrongful restraint), 342 (wrongful confinement), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of peace), 506 (criminal intimidation), 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention), as well as the Information Technology Act, Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act and Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/dalit-boys-beaten-paraded-for-theft-in-bihar-six-arrested-101621315452883.html
18-05-2021||Bhopal||MP Congress MLA booked for abetment of woman’s ‘suicide’ at his bungalow||Madhya Pradesh Congress MLA and former state forest minister was booked for abetment of suicide on Monday after a 40-year-old woman was found dead at his bungalow in Bhopal on Sunday. An FIR under Section 306 (abetment of suicide) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) was registered against Umang Singhar on the basis of his recorded conversations/chat history with the woman and her son’s statement, police said.Bhopal’s deputy inspector general of police, (DIG), said the woman and the MLA had planned to get married but she decided to end her life instead due to regular fights with the politician. “The woman had been living in the MLA’s bungalow for the past 20 days while he was visiting his assembly constituency of Gandhwani in Dhar district,” additional superintendent of police (ASP) Rajesh Bhadoriya said.He added that the house help employed at the Congress leader’s Shahpura bungalow first discovered the body and informed the police. Police claimed it recovered a suicide note from the woman’s articles accusing Singhar of anger issues and lack of clarity on some matters.Statements of the woman’s 20-year-old son, her mother and the Congress leader, have been recorded. Her son told police that his widowed mother met Singhar on a matrimonial website in September last year and they decided to get married. An engagement ceremony was held in December last year.“They met many times in Bhopal and at the woman’s home town in Punjab in the past few months. Recently, she told her family she was in depression due to regular fights with Singhar,” the ASP said. Singhar is separated from his wife.MLA said it was heartbreaking for him to lose such a “dear friend”. “I am cooperating with the police in the investigation but the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led state government is doing dirty politics on this [issue].” BJP leader and MP home minister Narottam Mishra said the police will take further action on the basis of investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/mp-congress-mla-booked-for-abetment-of-woman-s-suicide-at-his-bungalow-101621315212746.html
18-05-2021||Lucknow||Lucknow mosque steps in to help amid Covid-19 crisis||When Covid-19 cases surged and overwhelmed hospitals in April, the management committee of Lucknow’s Jama Masjid, Lalbagh, stepped in and offered its services. The committee began its work with just five oxygen cylinders and seven concentrators. But with generous community support, it has significantly expanded its services since, said the panel’s president, Zunoon Nomani.Akeel Siqqiui, who prays at the mosque, said they created a Facebook page and a helpline, and the assistance followed immediately. “Many people, including our Hindu brethren, approached us and offered money which we refused. Instead, we asked them to help us with the things that are needed the most—sanitisers, gloves, masks, oxygen cylinders, oxygen concentrators, and so on,” he said. Also Read | India’s Covid-19 tally tops 25 million with 263,533 new cases“There was a person from the Muslim community in Uday Ganj, who was in need of an oxygen cylinder. We requested a person from the Hindu community in the Gomti Nagar area, who expressed his willingness to help and took the cylinder to his house 10km away,” said Siddiqui.The committee has formed a four-member team, which stays at the mosque round the clock to help people with their 55 oxygen cylinders and 24 concentrators. Those in need of help just need to bring their Aadhaar card and avail themselves the services free of cost, said Siddiqui.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lucknow-mosque-steps-in-to-help-amid-covid-19-crisis-101621311792759.html
18-05-2021||Delhi||Wrestler murder case: ₹1 lakh reward announced for info on Sushil Kumar||Around two weeks after a former junior national wrestling champion Sagar Rana was murdered outside the parking lot of Chhatrasal stadium here, the Delhi Police has announced a reward of ₹1 lakh for any information that leads to the arrest of wrestler Sushil Kumar, who is on the run in connection with the case.Also, a reward of ₹50,000 has been announced for Ajay, who is also absconding in the same case, Delhi Police officials said.Earlier, a Delhi court had issued a non-bailable warrant against the accused in the connection with the murder of 23-year-old Sagar Rana at Chhatrasal Stadium, including Kumar.An incident of a brawl among wrestlers was reported May 4 in which some wrestlers were injured and they had to be admitted to a hospital and one of them died during treatment.However, wrestler Sushil on May 5 had denied the allegation saying that his wrestlers were not involved in the fight that took place inside Chhatrasal Stadium.Sushil is seen as one of the most successful athletes in the country as he won a silver medal in the 2012 London Olympics, and four years earlier, he had taken home a bronze medal in Beijing Olympics.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/wrestler-murder-case-rs-1-lakh-reward-announced-for-info-on-sushil-kumar-101621309151011.html
18-05-2021||Delhi||Cloudy sky, light rain in Delhi today; AQI in moderate category||Delhi is likely to see a cloudy sky accompanied by light rain or drizzle on Tuesday as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast. Thunderstorm along with rain is likely on Wednesday and Thursday as well, said IMD’s weekly forecast. As per IMD officials, as Cyclone Tauktae crosses Gujarat, it is likely to weaken gradually into a depression over south Rajasthan. Under its influence, light rainfall is expected in parts of the city on Tuesday.The minimum temperature on Tuesday is likely to be 24 degrees Celsius (°C) while the maximum temperature is predicted to hover around 33°C. The minimum temperature on Monday was 23.6°C and the maximum temperature was 37.8°C. Also Read | Major township project in Great Nicobar to impact turtle nesting sites, coralsDelhi’s air quality was in the moderate category on Tuesday morning. Data from Central Pollution Control Board showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 7am stood at 136. On Monday, the average 24-hour AQI stood at 191 in the moderate category. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered good, 51 and 100 satisfactory, 101 and 200 moderate, 201 and 300 poor, 301 and 400 very poor, and 401 and 500 severe.According to the early air quality warning system for Delhi-NCR, the air quality is likely to remain in the moderate category on Tuesday and Wednesday. Subsequently, the air quality is likely to remain in the moderate category over the next five days.On Monday, the Union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar), said, “The overall Delhi air quality is in the moderate category as forecasted. Surface winds are south southwesterly and moderate. AQI is forecasted to marginally deteriorate and stay in the high end of moderate for Tuesday and likely to improve their after towards the lower end of moderate category 19th and 20th May.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/cloudy-sky-light-rain-in-delhi-today-aqi-in-moderate-category-101621309032477.html
18-05-2021||Mumbai||After 3-day gap, BMC to resume Covid-19 vaccination from Tuesday||The Covid-19 vaccination drive in Mumbai, that was suspended for three days due to the extremely severe cyclonic storm Tauktae, will resume from Tuesday at select centres, the city civic body said on Monday.The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), in a release, said that walk-in vaccination will be carried out at select inoculation centres on May 18 and 19.As a precaution after the Tauktae alert, the civic body of Mumbai had suspended the inoculation drive for three days - Saturday, Sunday and Monday.Under the influence of the extremely severe cyclonic storm, Mumbai and its adjoining districts were lashed by heavy rains and high-speed winds overnight and on Monday.The weather system has now moved to the coast of neighbouring Gujarat.The civic body said the vaccination won't take place at centres affected by the cyclone which damaged structures.The list of the centres, where vaccine doses will be administered over the next two days, will be updated, the BMC said.It said citizens above 60 years of age will be given the first dose of Covishield vaccine, whose dosage gap has been increased to 12 to 16 weeks from the earlier 6 to 8 weeks, on May 18 and 19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/after-3-day-gap-bmc-to-resume-covid-19-vaccination-from-tuesday-101621304220896.html
18-05-2021||Dehradun||Badrinath temple in Uttarakhand opens portals, day after Kedarnath||The portals of the holy Badrinath temple in Uttarakhand were reopened in the early morning hours of Tuesday, a day after the Kedarnath shrine in the hill state, too, reopened with strict protocols due to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic.Also Read | Portals of Kedarnath temple open amid strict Covid-19 protocol“The portals of Lord Vishnu’s Badrinath shrine were reopened today at 4:15am with all rituals and religious practices. Health and well-being of the people is the government’s foremost priority. I pray to Lord Badri Vishal to keep everyone in the state healthy and safe,” a translation of Uttarakhand chief minister Tirat Singh Rawat’s tweets, posted in Hindi, read.Rawat added, “A limited number of people, under the leadership of the head priest, will offer regular prayers to Lord Badri Vishal.”श्री बदरीनाथ धाम के श्रद्धेय रावल (मुख्य पुजारी) श्री ईश्वरी प्रसाद नंबूदरी जी और धर्माधिकारी श्री भुवन चंद उनियाल जी की अगुवाई में तीर्थ पुरोहित सीमित संख्या में मंदिर में भगवान बदरी विशाल की पूजा-अर्चना नियमित रूप से करेंगे। pic.twitter.com/z3l4wTUTTmKedarnath is among four shrines whose portals are opened every year between April and May, after a closure of six months. The other three shrines are Kedarnath - which reopened at 5am on Monday - Gangotri and Yamunotri.Also Read | Kedarnath shrine opens on May 17, no restrictions on number of pilgrimsIn April, Uttarakhand hosted the Kumbh Mela which had to be called off as the state, along with the rest of the country, began witnessing a rise in its daily new Covid-19 cases. Kumbh, which began on April 1 and was scheduled to conclude on April 30, was called off after Prime Minister Narendra Modi appealed to a top seer that the event should be kept “symbolic.” The Uttarakhand government has also been pulled up by the high court for organising religious events despite the ongoing pandemic.Also Read | HC raps Uttarakhand for organising religious events amid pandemicOn Monday, the government extended the state-wide “corona curfew,” directing that the lockdown be observed from 6am on May 18 to 6am on May 25. During this period a maximum of 20 people will be allowed at wedding ceremonies while mandating an RT-PCR test 72 hours before entry into the state.According to a health department bulletin on May 17, Uttarakhand’s Covid-19 tally stands at 291,005. On Monday, 3,719 people tested positive, while 3,647 patients were discharged and 136 succumbed to the viral disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/badrinath-temple-in-uttarakhand-opens-portals-day-after-kedarnath-101621303275790.html
18-05-2021||Kolkata||Narada case: TMC targets Bengal Guv Dhankhar over prosecution sanction||The role of governor Jagdeep Dhankhar came into question as West Bengal’s ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) faced a new crisis on Monday following the arrest of two of its heavyweight ministers and a prominent legislator in connection with the Narada sting operation, with the former coming in for criticism from political circles.On May 9, Raj Bhawan said in a statement that the governor had accorded prosecution sanction to the CBI against three TMC MLAs, Madan Mitra, Subrata Mukherjee and Firhad Hakim, and former party leader Sovan Chatterjee. A controversy has broken out over the governor using the interregnum between two governments to accord his consent; in the normal course of events this consent would have been needed from the speaker of the assembly. “The CBI has to seek sanction from the assembly speaker to file a charge sheet against a member of the House. I do not know under which provision and with what intention the governor gave such a clearance to the CBI. I was completely bypassed,” Bengal assembly speaker Biman Banerjee told HT.Also Read| Standoff as Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee’s ministers held by CBICPI(M) Rajya Sabha member and noted lawyer Bikash Ranjan Bhattacharya said: “Why is the TMC blaming the governor? This is a legal issue and the probe was ordered by the Calcutta HC and SC. However, the governor’s recent activities and statements show that he is acting in a partisan manner.” TMC spokesperson Kunal Ghosh said, “He came to Bengal as an agent of the BJP. It has been proved once again.”Bengal BJP general secretary Sayantan Basu, however, said the governor acted in accordance with the law. “He is aware of the Constitutional provisions,” he said. Dhankar’s office said he was not available for comments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/narada-case-tmc-targets-bengal-guv-dhankhar-over-prosecution-sanction-101621298435374.html
18-05-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: Florence Nightingale’s street||Delhi has all sorts of lanes, all over the place.And then there’s Florence Nightingale Lane in Green Park—reminding us of the need for nurses in these grim days of pandemic.The street suitably houses the Trained Nurses’ Association of India; the sprawling building features an outdoor painting depicting Nightingale—walking past a row of filled hospital beds carrying a lamp.The other side of the road sports expensive private homes, some of them with three stories. Many have huge glass windows through which the afternoon sun shines so brilliantly that you might well imagine a getaway resort. Some of these rooms on the upper floors have no curtains, and clearly reveal the furniture inside. One house has a gigantic frangipani tree peeping out of its gate. Another is decked with tall, handsome Ashokas. Then there’s a mansion with the national flag at the top. Many homes also cultivate lush little plants streaming along their length. The shadows of their leaves along border walls tremble gently in the breeze. It’s akin to watching some silent film filled with hidden meaning.Do the residents of these splendid dwellings feel secure enough not to worry that much about their livelihoods during the lockdown? Can they afford to live in self-isolation far into the future?There’s no one to immediately ask. The only folk you find on this street are smartly uniformed guards stationed outside residences. On the porch of one particular house the young guard chit-chats with a stray dog.Towards the end of this enchanted road is the sudden sight of a blooming amaltas tree generously covered with golden flowers. You’re reminded of that fairy tale where anything the king touches turns into gold. The scene is even more glorious because the sky is deep blue and the street is empty (lockdown!). And now appears a man with a cylinder on his back. He is a “mosquito terminator”. The man stands by a drain under the tree and starts spraying the insecticide into it, oblivious to the tree’s noisy beauty.Outside the nurses’ building is a large plaque commemorating 2020 as the “year of the nurse & midwife”. But history will mark it more as the time as when coronavirus entered our lives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-florence-nightingale-s-street-101621298198101.html
18-05-2021||Delhi||Court reserves order on plea to halt Vista work||Richa Bankaricha.banka@htlive.comNew Delhi The central government on Monday told the Delhi high court that the petition seeking stoppage of the partial redevelopment work on the Central Vista is an attempt to halt the project with oblique motives.Senior advocate Sidharth Luthra, appearing for the petitioners, on the other hand said the Centre was trying to shoot the messenger instead of focusing on the message of health, life and safety. Terming the project as the “central fortress of death” instead of the Central Vista, Luthra said its deadline could be pushed to December 30 instead of November 30.A bench of chief justice DN Patel and justice Jyoti Singh reserved its judgment on the petition seeking a stay on the ongoing construction at Central Vista Avenue amid the Covid pandemic.The Central Vista project envisages constructing a new Parliament House, a new residential complex that will house the Prime Minister and the Vice-President, as well as several new office buildings and a Central Secretariat to accommodate ministry offices.The court was hearing a plea by Anya Malhotra, who works as a translator, and Sohail Hashmi, a historian and documentary filmmaker, seeking to halt the ongoing partial redevelopment of the Central Vista Avenue which includes both sides of Rajpath where Republic Day celebrations are held.While solicitor general Tushar Mehta said the plea was nothing but a “ facade of PIL created to disguise something which they wanted to stop under one pretext or the other”, Luthra said the construction does not fall in the essential category.Luthra said exceptions were made for this project and permission was also sought to ferry workers during the peak of the pandemic in April. He said 180 vehicles were given the green signal to transport workers, which has also been admitted by the Centre, but documents have not been given to the court.“They accept that it is a limited challenge but chooses to attack the messenger and the message is health, life, and safety, not only ours or theirs but everybody’s…,” he submitted.Luthra clarified that the petitioners do not intend to halt the project but it is for the current phase of the pandemic.He argued that no document of willingness by the workers was produced even when the Centre submitted that certain workers expressed willingness to stay put on the worksite. Luthra showed a photograph of April 24 to the court highlighting there is no bed, no bedding and no person in the tents.He referred to a media report and said that seven workers were shoved in one room, adding that if there are residential accommodations for the workers, then the same have to be shown.Rebutting the arguments, SG Mehta said the workers are staying on site and the petitioner had suppressed facts. He submitted that there is a medical facility at the site and workers will have access to something that will otherwise not be available to them.Senior advocate Maninder Singh, for Shapoorji Pallonji, agreed with the submissions of the Centre and said that all facilities are being provided to the workers. After lengthy arguments, the court reserved its judgment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/court-reserves-order-on-plea-to-halt-vista-work-101621295943009.html
18-05-2021||Delhi||5 rescued from fire at Dwarka building||Five members of a family were rescued from the first floor of a two-storey building in Dwarka after a fire broke out in its basement in the early hours on Monday. The family was trapped as some vehicles parked in the basement caught fire, blocking their escape route.Delhi Fire Services (DFS) chief Atul Garg said that while a detailed inspection is awaited, a preliminary investigation suggested a short circuit may have sparked the fire.Officials aware of the matter said the DFS control room received a call around 1.30am, reporting that some people were trapped in a house due to a fire in Dwarka Mor; four fire tenders were rushed to the spot initially, and two more were sent later. “Our team found that the fire had sparked from the basement of the residential building. Since there was only one entry and exit point, they could not leave the building,” said Garg.He added that one group of firefighters focused on containing the blaze, while another team tried to rescue the trapped family.“Wearing hazmat suits, our men tried to enter the building through stairs but it was not possible. We then set up a ladder up to the balcony of the first floor and our men climbed up to assist the family and bring them down. All five of them were brought down one by one safely using the ladder. None of them were hurt,”said Garg.In August last year, three members of a family, including a 12-year-old boy, had to be rescued from their east Delhi flat after a fire broke out on the ground floor. The vehicles had caught fire, blocking the only escape route. “People must ensure that vehicles are not parked near electricity meters, particularly in buildings that do not have an alternate escape route. People must also get the wiring of electricity meters checked by qualified professionals every year,” said Garg.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/5-rescued-from-fire-at-dwarka-building-101621295850265.html
18-05-2021||Delhi||Covid-19: As hospital beds free up, Delhi goes easy on plan to create more temporary facilities||The Delhi government has eased up on creating more temporary Covid care centres (CCCs) across the national capital, as new cases continued to decline on Monday, resulting in more hospital beds freeing up for those in need of them.Delhi on Monday recorded less than 5,000 new Covid-19 cases for the first time in nearly 42 days. A total of 4,524 new cases were recorded in the national capital in the past 24 hours, pushing the cumulative tally to 1,398,391, the health bulletin said.The positivity rate -- the proportion of samples returning positive among the total tested -- dropped further to 8.42% on Monday, which further underscores the trend that the outbreak is receding.A day earlier, Delhi’s positivity rate was 10.4%. Last month, the positivity rate at one point crossed 35%. The daily death toll, however, rose from 262 recorded on Sunday to 340 on Monday, as per the health bulletin.Going by the steep spike in Covid-19 cases in the city during the two-week period between April 18 and May 1, when cases had averaged over 23,000 daily, the Delhi government chalked out a mega bed augmentation plan to create an additional 10,500 beds (including 1,000 ICU beds) for Covid-19 treatment.Of these planned 10,500 beds, nearly 4,340 have either been made operational or were to be set up as on Monday.But the occupancy in these temporary CCCs has fallen sharply because of increased bed availability in hospitals.At the peak of the crisis, only 13.6% of Delhi’s Covid-19 beds were empty (16,942 occupied and 2,666 vacant) on April 20, according to figures -- in reality, most people said they were unable to find beds. Six days later, the city completely ran out of ICU beds, data showed.On Monday, however, Delhi had 11,696 Covid-19 beds vacant of the total of 27,560 beds. The city also had 877 of 6,575 ICU beds available, as per the Delhi government’s Corona app.“A 1,000-bed facility was being built on war footing in north Delhi’s Burari area, on the campus of Sawan Kirpal Ruhani Mission. The facility will be ready by this week, but its opening has been put on hold for now. We are keeping everything ready so that in case there’s a new wave or a sudden spike in cases, we will just need to organise the medical staff and the facility will be ready overnight,” said a senior government official, asking not to be named.The official clarified that this facility is separate from the other 1,000-bed Covid care centre that was opened on May 3 at the ashram of Sant Nirankari Samagam in Burari. As on Monday, 142 of the 1,000 beds were occupied in that facility.The Yamuna Sports Complex CCC, for example, has 800 operational Covid-19 beds of which only 65 were occupied as on Monday.“Until three to four weeks ago, this centre was jam-packed like all other facilities in the city. But, now there are barely three to five admissions daily. If cases surge again, we can expand this centre to 1,000 beds anytime; everything is ready,” said a senior official of the Shahdara district that manages the centre, asking not to be named.Similarly, the 460-bed CCC at Commonwealth Games Village has 460 operational beds of which only 63 were occupied as on Monday. This centre was also scheduled to increase its total beds to 1,000. The expansion has been put on hold for now.The Sardar Patel CCC, built in south Delhi’s Chhatarpur on the campus of Radha Saomi Satsang Beas, was planned to accommodate 5,000 beds, but that too has been put on hold for now. “At least 500 beds are operational now and we have another 500 ready. But the occupancy has decreased. If needed, we can scale up to 5,000 beds in phases. But that is not required at the moment,” said one of the managers of the facility, requesting not to be named.Around three weeks ago, people were queuing up for hours and even days outside this centre to get admitted. A few families had even said that their Covid-positive loved one had died while endlessly waiting to be admitted.Apart from the above mentioned CCCs, the 1,000 ICU beds at two centres built on Ramlila grounds in east and central Delhi have also been made operational.With the number of cases on decline and the pressure on hospitals reducing, doctors say that they are able to take better care of patients.“The mortality was very high in the initial phase of the current wave because hospitals were overwhelmed by the sheer number of patients. The doctors and nurses had no time to constantly monitor each patient. That has improved now,” said a senior doctor from a big private hospital, asking not to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/as-cases-decline-delhi-govt-puts-on-hold-move-to-add-more-covid-beds-101621297345775.html
18-05-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka mulls over Covid-19 lockdown extension||Karnataka Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa on Monday said that his government is mulling over the extension of lockdown in the state amid spike in coronavirus cases.While addressing the press meet briefly, Chief Minister said, "We are still discussing regarding extension of lockdown. Anyway, the imposed lockdown will remain imposed till 24th May. After two-three days, we will discuss and decide the extension of lockdown."As per the state health bulletin yesterday, the state logged 38,603 new Covid-19 cases and 476 deaths in the last 24 hours.Also, the state health minister took cognizance of the black fungus cases being reported in the state.Mucormycosis, also known as black fungus, is now a noticed disease and hospitals should report it to the government, said Karnataka Health and Medical Education Minister Dr K Sudhakar on Monday, adding that it is illegal to hide it."Black fungus is a post-covid complication. Those who have uncontrolled diabetes and use high dosage of steroids are vulnerable to this. Those who undergo organ transplantation and have immunocompromised conditions like HIV are also likely to contract this. Such category of people should be more cautious," the Minister warned while addressing a press conference here.Meanwhile, the state is also bracing with the likely effects of Cyclone Tauktae.One person was killed and over 70 houses got damaged in Uttara Kannada district due to cyclone Tauktae on Sunday, informed the Karnataka Government."In 5 taluks of Uttara Kannada, 71 houses, 76 fishing boats and 271 electric poles were damaged. One person has died," said Karnataka Minister Shivaram Hebbar.At least four people have lost their lives and 73 villages across six districts in Karnataka have been affected amid the intensification of cyclone Tauktae, said the Karnataka State Disaster Management Authority (KSDMA).All the concerned authorities are vigilant and carrying out the necessary action.Tauktae is expected to make landfall today in Gujarat. IMD DG Mrutyunjay Mohapatra informed that the cyclone is very likely to cross the Gujarat coast between Porbandar and Mahuva in Bhavnagar district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-mulls-over-covid-19-lockdown-extension-101621296396197.html
18-05-2021||Delhi||MAMC's beloved Bhandari Bhaiyya dies after serving canteen for 25 years||On any regular day, the department canteen of Maulana Azad Medical College (MAMC) would echo with vociferous requests for tea, snacks and lunch -- all addressed to Bhandari Bhaiyya. Whatever time of the day, Bhandari Bhaiyya would always be there, taking orders and passing on full plates with a shy smile.Since May 11, the MAMC canteen has been bereft of that smile. Babulal Bhandari (Bhandari Bhaiyya), (49) a canteen server for nearly 25 years, lost his battle to Covid-19. Current and former students, many of whom are senior medicos in top hospitals, are now raising money to help Bhandari’s family in Nepal.Alumni members of MAMC said Bhandari started showing symptoms of Covid-19, including respiratory distress, cough and temperature, from May 2 but his RT-PCR test came back negative on May 4. On May 8, he had to be admitted to the Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital after his condition deteriorated. On May 11, he died of a cardiac arrest prompted by Covid-19, according to hospital records.“He (Bhandari) had been serving at MAMC’s canteen for a long time. He was there when I completed my MBBS. He greeted me with so much warmth whenever I went there. He continued to relentlessly serve the medical fraternity even during Covid,” said Dr Himanshu Meena, resident doctor, paediatrics, Kalawati Saran Children’s Hospital, who graduated from MAMC in 2012.The MAMC canteen, where Bhandari worked caters to doctors and medical students from four affiliated hospitals, including the adjacent Lok Nayak Hospital, which is the largest Covid-19 facility. While medicos are equipped with safety gear, supporting staff like Bhandari, who is in regular contact with these front-line workers, are left with scant protection, even though they are also at high risk.An internal newsletter of MAMC, ”Trending Now in MAMC”, posted on Sunday, “Through the years, he had formed a personal bond with everyone who had ever set foot in the canteen...He would be missed dearly by everyone he crossed paths with.”In an interview to that newsletter in 2017, Bhandari had said he worked 12-hour shifts, without any holidays.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/mamcs-beloved-bhandari-bhaiyya-dies-after-serving-canteen-for-25-years-101621295638340.html
18-05-2021||Gurugram||Tension in Nuh after 27-year-old, on way to medical store, beaten to death||A 27-year-old man was killed and his two cousins injured after a group of about 15 men attacked them with sticks and guns while they were on their way to Sohna from Nuh to buy medicines on Sunday night. Police on Monday said they have arrested six men so far and booked 8 others on charges of murder and rioting.While the police said the motive for the attack is unclear, the family of the deceased, Asif Khan, alleged that the suspects were former members of Khan’s gym and they had a fallout with Khan over some issue. They, however, did not reveal what the issue was, police said.Meanwhile, some locals have claimed that the assailants had forced Khan to chant a Hindu religious slogan before fatally attacking him. But the police refuted the claims and said the complaint by Khan’s family did not mention any such angle.However, in view of the claims, police deployed over 100 personnel in and around Khan’s village, Kheda Khalilpur in Nuh, to prevent any law and order situation.According to the police, Khan used to run a gym in Sohna. On Sunday, around 8pm, he left from Nuh for Sohna in his car, along with his cousins, Rashid and Wasif.Narender Bijarnia, superintendent of police (SP), Nuh, said around 15 men on motorbikes and cars started following the trio. They hit Khan’s car from the rear and forced him to stop, after which they assaulted Khan and his cousins with guns and sticks next to a plywood factory near Atta village in Nuh, he said.“Khan’s cousins Rashid and Wasif, who sustained injuries in the attack, managed to escape but the suspects took Khan to the outskirts of Sohna. His body was found later that night in Nagli village,” the SP said.“Both groups had fought in the past also and that issue was resolved. But on Sunday, the suspects were more in number and attacked the three cousins and killed one,” Bijarnia said.Once news of Khan’s death reached his family, his relatives and villagers protested on Sohna road on Sunday night seeking the arrest of his murderers. Police later said a special investigation team was formed on Sunday night to arrest all suspects.Rashid Ahmad, Khan’s cousin and a social activist and lawyer from Nuh, said Khan had no personal enmity with the men who attacked him. “He used to run his gym and the suspects were members of his gym but due to some tiff, they had stopped coming there and bore a grudge against Khan,” he said.Hasan Khan, an uncle of the deceased, said the suspects had forced them to stop their car and also pelted stones on them when they tried to speed away. “They requested the attackers to let them go as they had to buy medicines for an ailing relative but they did not pay any heed. They had come with the intention of killing Asif,” he said.Police registered a case under sections 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapon), 149 (every member of unlawful assembly guilty of offence committed in prosecution of common object), 302 (murder), 323 (causing hurt), 341 (wrongful restraint), and 365 (kidnapping) of the Indian Penal Code and sections of Arms Act at the Rozka Meo police station on Monday.The body was handed over to the family members on Monday after the post-mortem examination and the protesters were assured of justice, following which the blockade was removed, said police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-man-on-way-to-medical-store-killed-101621294760998.html
18-05-2021||Delhi||Oxygen concentrator case: Delhi Police get Navneet Kalra’s custody for 3 days||The Delhi Police on Monday said businessman Navneet Kalra, who has been charged with hoarding oxygen concentrators and selling them at inflated prices, was hiding at a farmhouse owned by his in-laws in Gurugram, along with his family. He was arrested from there by a police team late on Sunday evening.Delhi Police spokesperson Chinmoy Biswal on Monday said a team from Maidan Garhi police station caught Kalra and then handed him over to the crime branch, which is investigating the case. He was produced before the magistrate in the Saket court on Monday.Metropolitan magistrate Archana Beniwal sent Kalra for three days of custodial interrogation after the Delhi Police said his custody is required to unearth the whole nexus and conspiracy behind the black marketing and know the trail of money transaction. Kalra will now be produced before the court at the end of his police remand on May 20.Kalra’s lawyer Vineet Malhotra said his client’s bank details, mobile phone, laptop and gadgets were already available with police and that his custodial interrogation was not required. “Remand must be granted only in cases of real necessity. For what purpose do they need custody? They need to know the trail? They can get any information they want from me. Request for the police remand is absurd,” Malhotra said.Kalra was allegedly on the run since the recovery of 524 oxygen concentrators from three of his restaurants – Khan Chacha, Town Hall and Nege & Ju – and from the office of Matrix Cellular between May 5 and May 7. A Delhi court on Thursday refused to grant protection from arrest to Kalra, following which he moved the Delhi high court. The high court on Friday also declined to grant any interim relief to him.Five persons, including the manager of Nege & Ju restaurant, chief executive officer (CEO) and three senior officers of Matrix Cellular, were arrested since the recovery of the concentrators. All five were later released on bail while the case was transferred to the crime branch for further investigation, the police said.While granting bail to the accused on May 13, the court said “no prima facie case under section 420 IPC is made out against the accused, at least from the contents of the FIR”, adding it was unable to understand the offence they had committed.Investigators said multiple teams were conducting raids in Delhi, Haryana and Uttarakhand to arrest Kalra, who left his house in Chhatarpur along with his family members soon after the raids at his restaurants. They said he left without his driver and drove the car himself.A senior police officer associated with the probe said the south district police on Sunday received information that Kalra was at a farmhouse in Gurugram. The information was checked and the location of the farmhouse was established. Around 8pm, on Sunday, a team from Maidan Garhi police station raided the farmhouse and arrested Kalra. His two cars – a Range Rover and a Thar jeep – in which he and his family members had left their Delhi home were also found parked at the farmhouse, the officer said.“The farmhouse is owned by Kalra’s in-laws. We questioned Kalra and he told us that he had been there since May 5, the day 419 oxygen concentrators were seized in the first round of raids at his Nege & Ju restaurant and the office of Matrix Cellular. We are verifying Kalra’s claims regarding his presence at the farmhouse since May 5,” said the officer.Police also said they also recovered Kalra’s two mobile phones from the farmhouse. Both were switched off. Investigators said they will analyse the call records and may send the phones to a forensic lab to find out of any “important and crucial data related to the case”.Another police officer privy to the development said Kalra’s in-laws may also be asked to join the investigation and if required, they may be booked on charges of harbouring a fugitive.“Kalra has told us that he never stepped out of the farmhouse. Also, except him and his family members nobody else was staying there. We are now trying to find out how they were arranging their daily household needs. Was anybody helping them with such items is also a part of the probe,” the second officer added.Police have alleged that for each concentrator, Kalra and his partners made a profit of at least ₹55,000. The concentrators were bought for ₹14,000-15,000 each and sold at ₹70,000-75,000. Police said since October, they had bought nearly 7,500 concentrators and more than 2,000 concentrators were sold in Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/oxygen-concentrator-case-delhi-police-get-navneet-kalra-s-custody-for-3-days-101621293413870.html
18-05-2021||Delhi||Fix formula for MRP of oxygen concentrators: Delhi HC to Centre||The Delhi high court on Monday sought to know why the Centre was not fixing a formula to decide the Maximum Retail Price (MRP) of oxygen concentrators even as devices were being black marketed and sold at exorbitant prices.A bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli said that the government can fix a principle to decide the MRP of the concentrators after the Centre’s counsel said it was not possible to fix prices because the devices come from various exporters who may stop supplying to India if the rates were fixed.The high court said it was not asking the government to fix a price in rupee or paisa, but to fix a principle on which oxygen concentrators will be charged. The government should understand that if this is not an extraordinary circumstance where it should intervene, then what will be, the high court added,The court suggested fixing a formula like the landed price of the product, plus duty charge, plus 15% profit margin.“There has to be some limit to it (the price). It cannot be limitless. Tomorrow some Chinese manufacturer will say he will sell it at 5X rate, it cannot be allowed…” the court said.It added: “As a government, it is your responsibility that people are actually able to afford the product and not have to pay through their nose. They can’t be taken for a ride. Shortage of a product cannot be taken advantage of. Should you not think of the consumer?”Central government’s counsel Kirtiman Singh and Amit Mahajan had said the landed price was ultimately determined by the exporter, and it was not possible for the government to fix the prices as there are different concentrators in the market with different prices, sizes, and names.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/fix-formula-for-mrp-of-oxygen-concentrators-delhi-hc-to-centre-101621290158304.html
18-05-2021||Delhi||Covid-19 pandemic not a selling point, says Delhi HC||The Delhi high court on Monday said that political parties cannot make the ongoing Covid pandemic a “selling point” and that they have no business buying medicines and hoarding them to earn some goodwill while also slamming the city police for their shoddy probe into allegations against politicians from different parties that they were hoarding Covid medicines and oxygen cylinders.A bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh also said that political leaders are expected to surrender their stocks to the Director General of Health Services (DGHS), Delhi government, for use by the poor and needy persons at government hospitals. “Since it is being projected that the medicines are held for public charity, we expect that as responsible citizens, people (political leaders) will not procure these medicines for political gains,” the bench said.The court’s observations and directions came after the Delhi Police submitted its preliminary investigation report in which it had given a clean chit to nine politicians, including BJP MP Gautam Gambhir, Indian Youth Congress (IYC) president BV Srinivas and Dilip Pandey of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) who faced allegations of hoarding oxygen cylinders and essential medicines.On May 7, the court directed the police to carry out an investigation in the alleged hoarding of oxygen cylinders even as it refused a CBI probe, on a plea by Deepak Singh, who runs an NGO, Hrudya Foundation.Reacting to the clean chit to the accused by the police, justice Sanghi said, “We are not accepting this position….This is completely unacceptable. Political parties cannot make this pandemic a selling point. How could they purchase it without prescription? You have to act with responsibility. They have no business buying medicines and hoarding them to earn some goodwill. Now it seems that you are not interested in getting out the truth.”Expressing dissatisfaction over the police investigation, the court directed the city police to go into specifics of the case.“You had to go into specific allegations. If some political leader is advertising some medicine free of cost, where is he getting it from? There are reports of shortages in supply. Does he hold a licence to hoard and distribute? How can you be so slack about it?” the court remarked.“Just because some political figures are involved, this is no reason to not investigate. Your force should stand up, you have a duty towards the people. You have to understand this. People all over are suffering,” the court said, asking the police if they realise how many people have died due to lack of medicines, which, allegedly, were being hoarded by some people.Advocate Virag Gupta, appearing for the petitioner, said that no action has been taken against any of the politicians and cited the example of Gambhir who had distributed Fabiflu tablets. Fabiflu is an anti-viral drug which is used to manage the symptoms of Covid-19.During Monday’s hearing, advocate Sanjay Lao, standing counsel of the Delhi government (criminal), for the Delhi police, sought further time from the court to complete the investigation. Highlighting BJP MP Gambhir’s reply to the police, Lao said that the lawmaker procured the medicine through his foundation which is attached to the Garg Hospital in east Delhi’s AGCR Enclave. Citing Gambhir’s reply, the lawyer said the medicines were procured by a doctor of the hospital.Justice Sanghi intervened saying, it was prima facie difficult to believe that a doctor was getting the medicines in bulk when there was an overall shortage in the market and people were paying high price for the drug.“We find it difficult prima facie to believe… How can a chemist give it to a doctor? It’s not the monetary factor. It’s not about seizure. If a case is made out, you can seize. We will not direct seizure as it’s a legal exercise. We are appealing in good sense and as good Samaritans that this should not go and they should go and surrender it with the DGHS,” the bench said.The court further directed the Delhi Police to conduct a “proper investigation” in the matter and do the needful if a case is made out to register an First information Report (FIR). It asked the police to file a status report showing how medicines were procured in “such large numbers by a few persons”.The matter will now be heard on May 24.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covid19-pandemic-not-a-selling-point-says-delhi-hc-101621289531342.html
18-05-2021||Kolkata||Standoff as Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee’s ministers held by CBI||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Monday arrested two senior West Bengal ministers, a legislator and a former Kolkata mayor on charges of bribery and corruption, triggering fierce protests by the Trinamool Congress (TMC) and a six-hour agitation by chief minister Mamata Banerjee.A special CBI local court granted bail to all four accused -- urban development minister Firhad Hakim, panchayat minister Subrata Mukherjee, Kamarhati MLA Madan Mitra and former Kolkata mayor Sovan Chatterjee -- but the Calcutta high court stayed the order late on Monday. The case will be next heard on Wednesday.The four leaders were arrested from their residences in the morning and charged under Section 120b of the Indian Penal Code (criminal conspiracy) and sections 7 and 13(1)(a) 13(1)(b) of the Prevention of Corruption Act for charges related to the 2016 Narada sting operation bribery case.Shortly afterwards, Banerjee rushed to the CBI’s office at Nizam Palace in south Kolkata and left after nearly six hours. “Mamata told CBI officials that she should also be arrested,” said a TMC leader aware of the developments.Also Read| Mamata Banerjee inducts 43 ministers: Check full list of portfoliosThe case pertains to a two-year-long sting operation whose videos were uploaded months ahead of the 2016 assembly elections. The sting, conducted by online news portal Narada News, purportedly caught several senior TMC leaders accepting money in exchange for alleged favours to a fictitious company.“The CBI has today arrested four then (former) ministers, government of West Bengal, in a case related to the Narada sting operation... it was alleged that then public servants were caught on camera while receiving illegal gratification from the sting operator,” CBI spokesperson RC Joshi said in Delhi.TMC alleged that CBI was acting on orders by the BJP, which recently lost assembly elections in West Bengal to Banerjee’s party. TMC won 213 seats and BJP could only manage 77.TMC pointed out that two key people shown in the sting -- party vice-president Mukul Roy and Bengal leader of Opposition Suvendu Adhikari -- had switched to the BJP and weren’t among those arrested on Monday.Also Read| Narada case: No social distancing as TMC workers protest ministers’ arrest“We condemn this. The BJP is not being able to accept the humiliating defeat and hence trying to take revenge. Why isn’t Mukul Roy, vice president of BJP, being arrested? He was also seen in the Narada sting operation,” said Kunal Ghosh, TMC spokesperson.Roy moved to BJP in 2017 while Adhikari switched in December 2020.As Banerjee sat on a dharna inside the CBI office, hundreds of TMC workers gathered outside in protest. Some protestors hurled bricks, shoes and bottles at central forces guarding the CBI office. TMC supporters also blocked roads with burning tyres and burnt effigies of Prime Minister Narendra Modi.“Law is taking its own course. BJP has nothing to do with this,” said Samik Bhattacharjee, BJP spokesperson.TMC also claimed procedural lapses in the arrests.Assembly speaker Biman Banerjee said that the arrests were illegal and undemocratic as his permission was not taken. “The speaker’s prior permission is necessary to arrest a legislator and before submitting charge sheet. CBI, however, didn’t take any permission. It is illegal and unconstitutional,” said Banerjee.The federal agency, however, said it sought the permission of West Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on May 9. The charge sheet against five accused people, for whom prosecution sanction was received, is being submitted, said Joshi. The fifth accused is Indian Police Service (IPS) officer SMH Mirza, who is out on bail.Banerjee took oath as chief minister for the third time on May 5.Dhankhar condemned the violence. “Total lawlessness & anarchy. Police and administration in silence mode. Hope you realize repercussions of such lawlessness and failure of constitutional mechanism,” he tweeted.In the high court, the matter was virtually hear by acting chief justice Rajesh Bindal and justice Arijit Banerjee for nearly an hour after which the bail of the four leaders was stayed. “We were not made a party to the hearing. We have not received the court order. We were kept in the dark. We will plan our next over after going through the order,” said Anindya Raut, advocate and TMC leader.Till the next hearing, the four leaders will be lodged in Kolkata’s Presidency Correctional Home. A huge contingent of Kolkata Police and Rapid Action Force was deployed outside the CBI office at Nizam Palace and Presidency Correctional Home. TMC workers assembled in thousands at both locations on Monday night.Also Watch| Stone pelting, baton charge amid TMC protest against CBI in Kolkata﻿The Congress and the Left backed Banerjee but Communist Party of India (Marxist) Rajya Sabha MP, senior advocate Bikash Ranjan Bhattacharya, said: “The arrests were not illegal. They have been booked under the Prevention of Corruption Act. While taking cognizance, the court would see whether the crime has anything to do with the work of the assembly or the speaker. If it has nothing to do, then no permission is required.”Mathew Samuel, chief executive of Narada News, said his fight was against corruption. “It was a long wait. Finally, I got the result...My question is what happened to Suvendu Adhikari? He also received the money from me. It was recorded and handed over to CBI. Justice has to go everywhere in same manner,” said Samuel.Hakim said the arrests have stalled Covid-19 work in the state, which is under lockdown to arrest surging infections. “My colleagues who bent down to their pressure tactics and joined BJP are spared from the arrest today and harassment by CBI,” he said.Mitra thanked Banerjee for her support. “Justice will prevail.#khelahobe (game on),” he tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/standoff-as-bengal-cm-mamata-banerjee-s-ministers-held-by-cbi-101621286031169.html
18-05-2021||Delhi||Covid in Delhi: 160 oxygen concentrators given in 2 days, says health minister||A total of 160 oxygen concentrators were provided by district administrations to Covid-19 patients in the national capital in the past two days under an oxygen bank scheme announced by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday, with an aim to enhance oxygen support for patients in their residences, Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain on Monday said.The highest number of concentrators were distributed by the north district (28), followed by south-west (26) and west (25). In the south-east, south, New Delhi, central and north-east districts, 10, 11, 21, 15 and 14 oxygen concentrators were distributed respectively. The fewest so far – two, three and five – were distributed by north-west, east and Shahdara districts, showed the data shared by Jain in a tweet.“All 11 districts have 200 oxygen concentrators ready under the scheme. But they can only be given on the prescription of a doctor of a Covid-19 hospital under the currently applicable protocols,” said a senior official, who asked not to be named.In April, Delhi witnessed its worst health crisis during the pandemic as hospitals ran short on oxygen on a daily basis, and were unable to procure the lifesaving gas on time amid limited supply. Some critical Covid-19 patients lost their lives for want of oxygen, according to doctors.Also Read| Delhi: As vaccine stock runs low, Sisodia calls for transparency in allocationBut the oxygen situation has eased considerably over the past week, with fresh Covid-19 cases declining in recent days, more beds freeing up in hospitals, and the Centre increasing the daily oxygen supply to the state.On Monday, Delhi had 35,141 Covid-19 patients in home isolation, while 10,918 fresh discharges were made by hospitals. New cases continued to decline, reporting 4,524 infections and a test positivity rate of 8.42%.Kejriwal said oxygen concentrators under the scheme can be availed of by both patients in home isolation, and also those discharged from hospital who have been advised oxygen support for a few more days, by calling on the government’s central Covid helpline number 1031.Under the new scheme, Delhi government doctors are supposed to stay in touch with all those who are given oxygen concentrators from these banks. Once the patient recovers, the concentrators will be taken back, sanitised, and handed over to the next patient.Also Read| Delhi's daily Covid-19 cases drop below 5,000 for first time after April 5Once a concentrator is assigned, teams are meant to deliver the machine in two hours, and a technician is also supposed to accompany the team and explain to the patient and caregiver how the machine is to be used.The scheme was launched in collaboration with Ola Foundation and GiveIndia.“We are expanding our O2forIndia Initiative in partnership with Ola Foundation and launching it in Delhi this week. Through this initiative, we are creating a bank of oxygen concentrators that will be available for free, on demand and home delivered to the citizens of Delhi-NCR,” said Atul Satija, CEO and founder of GiveIndia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covid-in-delhi-160-oxygen-concentrators-given-in-2-days-says-health-minister-101621281962856.html
18-05-2021||Chandigarh||Inapt Covid behaviour, virulent strains behind sudden spike in deaths in Jammu:Experts||A three-member panel of experts, which had come to Jammu to ascertain the cause for the high mortality rate in the division, attributed the surge in deaths to Covid-inappropriate behaviour and the presence of three virulent strains from the UK, South Africa and India (B.1.617) in the region. The team comprised Dr Mahesh Waghmare, deputy director (microbiology), National Centre for Disease Control, Delhi; Dr. Pranay Kumar Verma, deputy director of the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP) at the National Centre for Disease Control, Delhi; and Dr Navneet Sharma of PGIMER, Chandigarh. Waghmare said, “While the lockdown will definitely help contain the virus, Covid-apt behaviour is indispensible. We found that people were not following the norms stringently, which has led to the high positivity and mortality rate in the region. Earlier, the region had the South African and UK variants and now we also have the highly infectious Indian variant as well.” Delay in hospitalisation contributing to high fatality rateThe team found that the mortality rate within 24 hours of hospitalisation was 30% while 12% patients were being brought dead to hospitals. “This shows people are reaching hospitals at a very late stage, which is contributing to the high mortality,” Waghmare said. The Indian variant is primarily responsible for the surge in cases in Jammu division, said experts. In March, the UK variant was found in 60% of the 434 samples sent for genome sequencing. In April, it dropped to 47% while the B.1.617 variant’s prevalence increased from 5.8% to 38%. The Indian variant has now overtaken UK strain in Jammu division. Experts suspect that the Indian strain is now contributing to at least 50% cases. Waghmare conceded that the government was ill-prepared for the sudden surge and there were insufficient critical care beds in the region. He suggested strict police patrolling during concession hours to check overcrowding and ensure Covid-appropriate behaviour. “Both preventive and curative aspects have to be adhered to in earnest but the greater responsibility lies with the people,” he added. “We may be lacking in infrastructure but we are augmenting it. Doctors and paramedics are on the job 24x7. Following sudden spike in deaths, a massive door-to-door sampling has also been initiated in Jammu,” a local official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/inapt-covid-behaviour-virulent-strains-behind-sudden-spike-in-deaths-in-jammuexperts-101621282272108.html
18-05-2021||Chandigarh||J&K’s grimmest day yet as virus claims 73||Jammu and Kashmir witnessed another grim day on Monday with 73 people losing their lives to the novel coronavirus, the highest-ever daily fatalities since the outbreak, taking the overall death toll to 3,222.The UT also recorded 3,344 fresh infections, taking the UT’s Covid count to 2,47,952. Of the 73 deaths in the UT, 54 were reported in Jammu division and 19 in Kashmir. Of the new cases, 1,926 are from Kashmir, 1,418 are from Jammu, while 76 were travellers.May has turned out to be deadliest month for J&K as the monthly toll touched 940. With 71,869 infections, the month also clocked the highest number of cases so far. Around 48,437 patients have recovered this month. Officials said with 613 cases, Jammu had the highest number of new infections, followed by 495 in Srinagar, 376 in Budgam and 228 each in Anantnag and Udhampur. The number of active cases has reached 50,852, officials said. Most cases have been added after February 9 when the UT had the lowest active case tally of 593.Dr Lenah Bashir, lecturer microbiology, Government Medical College, Srinagar, said cough, cold, loss of taste and smell, and fatigue were mild symptoms while breathlessness indicated severe infection. “Severe symptomatic patients should be shifted to the hospital for treatment and monitoring,” she said.She said that double mutant strains of SAR COV2 are showing heightened infectivity and evading the immune systems, hence increasing mortality. “Previously,infected people have a greater chance of re-infection due to the double mutant,” she said.92 inmates test positive for COVID-19 in two prisonsNinety-two inmates have tested positive for COVID-19 in two prisons of Jammu and Kashmir, officials said on Monday, and asserted that all the positive cases are asymptomatic and have been isolated in separate barracks.The latest detection in Udhampur and Kupwara district jails through special Rapid Antigen Test (RAT) screening pushed the active cases among inmates to 115 out of a total of over 4,570 prisoners in all the jails, officials said.The special drive in the two jails was carried out nearly two weeks after a prominent separatist leader and chairman of Tehreek-e-Hurriyat Mohammad Ashraf Sehrai, who was lodged in Udhampur district jail under Public Safety Act, died of Covid at a government hospital on May 5.J&K gets 7 new oxygen plants from GermanyJ&K on Monday received seven new imported oxygen plants from Germany with a cumulative generation capacity of 7,100 litres per minute (LPM). The oxygen plants were carried by an Indian Air Force aircraft from Munich in Germany and reached Srinagar Airport in the afternoon. “New Oxygen Plants including 5 of 1000 LPM, one of 1500 LPM and one of 600 LPM capacity will further add 7100 LPM to the existing availability,” Lieutenant Governor of Jammu and Kashmir Manoj Sinha said in a tweet. He said this will hugely augment oxygen supply to the health infrastructure in the UT.“My deepest gratitude to Hon’ble PM @narendramodi for providing 7 Oxygen plants to JK UT. With his intervention, these Oxygen plants were airlifted by @IAF_MCC from Munich, Germany and safely landed at Srinagar Airport today at 12:45PM,” the LG added.Construction workers given aid 
18-05-2021||Other||Bargari sacrilege: 6 dera men sent to 4-day police custody||The special investigations team (SIT) probing the 2015 sacrilege incidents on Monday day added charges of prompting religious enmity in the FIR registered in connection with the Bargari sacrilege. The section 153-A (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language etc) of Indian Penal Code (IPC) has been added to the FIR registered on October 12, 2015, at Bajakhana police station, a day after the SIT arrested six Sirsa-based Dera Sacha Sauda followers for sacrilege of Guru Granth Sahib at Bargari village. The SIT led by inspector general of police (IGP), border range, Surinder Pal Singh Parmar, on Sunday arrested Sukhjinder Singh, alias Sunny; Nishan Singh, Ranjit Singh, alias Bhola; and Pardeep Kumar, all resident of Kotkapura; Shakti Singh of Daggu Romana village and Baljit Singh of Sikhanwala village. While seeking seven-day police remand, the SIT produced the accused before the court of judicial magistrate Faridkot Tarjani, who sent them to police custody till May 21. Accused had plan to do another sacrilege in 2015: SIT The SIT had told the court that 150 torn pages of a bir of Guru Granth Sahib, which was stolen from Burj Jawahar Singh Wala village on June 1, 2015, were found scattered near a gurdwara at Bargari. “This act was carried out by the accused. During the investigation, it has been revealed that there were 100 more pages torn from the holy book and the accused had plan to do another sacrilege at Hari Nau village in Faridkot district in 2015. Those pages have not been recovered so far, so their custodial interrogation is required for that purpose as well,” SIT added. Dera followers’ counsel Vinod Kumar Monga argued that the CBI has already given them clean chit in these cases but SIT has arrested them without any evidence. However, the SIT claimed that they have sufficient evidence against the accused in this case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bargari-sacrilege-6-dera-men-sent-to-4-day-police-custody-101621282151773.html
18-05-2021||Chandigarh||Aspiring teachers gherao Punjab school education minister’s residence in Sangrur||Members of the ETT-TET Unemployed Teachers’ Union gheraoed the residence of Punjab school education minister Vijay Inder Singla and broke barricades when they did not receive assurance of a panel meeting with the minister on Monday. Earlier, they had assembled outside the deputy commissioner’s office where their indefinite protest has been going on since January 4. They also held a march from the DC office to the minister’s residence.The aspiring teachers ended their protest after a written assurance of a panel meeting with the education minister on May 24 at Chandigarh.Sandeep Sama, senior vice-president of the union, said that their two members have been protesting in Patiala for the past 58 days. “However, the government is not paying heed,” he added. Sama said the government announced 2,364 posts for ETT, but the education department was considering BEd candidates for these vacancies. The protesters demanded that 10,000 more vacancies for ETT-qualified teachers be advertised and only qualified candidates from the category should be considered for these posts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/aspiring-teachers-gherao-punjab-school-education-minister-s-residence-in-sangrur-101621281912680.html
18-05-2021||Chandigarh||Vaccination vexation: Contradictory messages leave J&K’s 45+ group baffled||J&K’s ‘45 plus’ vaccination beneficiaries were perplexed after they first received a message asking them to appear at their chosen site to receive the second dose of the coronavirus vaccine, followed by another message asking them to reschedule.The request to reschedule comes after the Centre revised its norms to increase the gap between the doses to 12 to 13 weeks. A Jammu resident, Kunal Shrivatsa, who was one of the recipients of the contradictory messages, said the revised norms had been announced on May 13 but he and his family had booked a slot on May 12. “Dear Kunal Shrivatsa, Your vaccination is scheduled for 22-05-2021 01:00PM-04:00PM at KOT BHALWAL. Your booking reference ID is 14230350723762 and your 4 digits secret code for vaccination is 3762 – CoWIN,” read the first message, received on May 12. “Dear Kunal Shrivatsa, scheduled vaccination on 22-05-2021 is cancelled, Inconvenience is regretted. Reschedule on cowin.gov.in,” read the second message, received on May 16. Centre had said pre-booked appointments will not be cancelled Notably, on May 16, the Union health ministry had said, “Online appointments, already booked for the second dose of the Covishield vaccine, will remain valid and the same will not be cancelled on Co-WIN platform.” It, however, said requisite changes have now been made to the CoWIN digital portal, as a result of which further online or on-site appointments will not be possible if the period after first dose date for a beneficiary is less than 84 days. Financial commissioner health and medical education Atal Dulloo said slots had been rescheduled as per revised norms. While Dulloo said more supplies were on their way to J&K, a senior health official said the UT was facing shortage of vaccines. No vaccination in Valley in 5 days Kashmir valley had recorded no vaccination on Sunday in a striking contrast to the Centre’s claims of despatching vaccines on a daily basis. The health bulletin says none has been vaccinated in the last five days. “It seems the government’s exercise of re-scheduling the gap from first dose to 12 to 16 weeks is either because it has run out of vaccines or production has not been scaled up to the requisite level,” said Naveen Mattoo, a Kashmiri Pandit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/vaccination-vexation-contradictory-messages-leave-j-k-s-45-group-baffled-101621281911564.html
18-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi: As vaccine stock runs low, Sisodia calls for transparency in allocation||As vaccine stocks in the city for all beneficiary groups continued to dwindle on Monday, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia urged the central government to ensure supply of more doses for the 18-44 age group, make the statewise vaccine allocation system more transparent, and give advance estimates of supply for the months of June and July so that appropriate vaccination strategies can be drafted by the city government.On Monday evening, according to the government’s vaccine bulletin, the city had less than one day’s stock of Covaxin and five days’ stock of Covishield left for the group that comprises health care workers, frontline workers and individuals aged 45 and above.For the 18-44 years category, the government has already run out of Covaxin stock – leading to temporary suspension of around 140 centres last week – and had about four days’ stock of Covishield doses left.While the Delhi government is scheduled to receive 283,970 doses of Covishield and 98,890 doses of Covaxin between May 21 and 29 for health care workers, frontline workers and individuals aged 45 years and above, no vaccines are expected to arrive for the 18-44 years group till May 29, shows a separate set of government documents seen by HT.Also Read| Delhi's daily Covid-19 cases drop below 5,000 for first time after April 5In a press briefing on Monday, Sisodia said: “We have limited vaccine doses for beneficiaries belonging to the 18-44 years group. We may have to shut our centres. The central government is unable to provide us with adequate doses for this age group.”In a statement issued later, the deputy CM said, “In a letter addressed to the Delhi government, the central government has committed to distribute 3.83 lakh doses for 45+ age group, however the same provision has not been extended to the 18-44 age group. This is a grave issue that requires immediate attention of the Centre. At the very least, they should match the doses for 45+ citizens and distribute 3.83 lakh doses for the 18-44 age group as well.”The statement added” “I have written a letter to the central government today requesting their support on three key matters. First, to make vaccine doses available for citizens between 18-44 years, just like they have given us doses for citizens above 45 years… My second request is to make allocation data of vaccines transparent and open to the public… Allocation data on how many vaccine doses have been administered to which state and for which age group, should be open to the public. We also need to know how many vaccine doses are being sent to private and government centres. (The) central government should be transparent in its vaccine allocation data, just like it has increasingly shown transparency in oxygen allocation in every state.”Central government officials did not respond.According to a formula shared by the Centre with the Supreme Court on May 9, state governments will altogether have access to 25% of the total vaccines produced in a month for vaccinating people in the 18-44 age group. By that system, states collectively will be given 20 million doses to inoculate their 18-44 age group population from the roughly 80 million vaccines doses expected to be produced this month, which essentially leads to fixing of quotas on a pro-rata fashion for states based on their population size in the 18-44 age group.Also Read| Covid-19: What you need to know todaySisodia further said in the statement: “The third request pertains to communicating information on (the) number of vaccine doses that will be administered to us in the months of June and July, just like how we have received information for the month of May. This will help us in planning our vaccination programme, so that we can make a streamlined system of how many centres will be equipped with vaccines and how centres will be managed.”On Monday, Delhi also opened its government schools for vaccination of people aged over 45 years – which was so far happening only at dispensaries and hospital premises – with an on-site registration facility.“We began vaccination drive for 18-44 and 45+ citizens in a rapid manner and from today, we have started moving vaccination centres from hospitals and dispensaries to Delhi government schools with the introduction of walk-in facility for citizens above 45 years. As of now, this programme is working successfully and we hope that we can expect support from the Centre on this,” he said.Also Read| Covid-19: 5th phase of lockdown begins in Delhi as positivity rate down to 10.4%According to Monday’s vaccine bulletin, the government said that more than 4.6 million doses of Covid-19 vaccines have been administered in Delhi since the roll-out of the drive on January 16 – of which around 1.06 million were second doses.Delhi, by electoral roll data, has a total adult population of around 15 million. The shortage of vaccines adds up to concerns for people who have their second doses due in the coming days.Dr Lalit Kant, former head of the division of epidemiology and communicable diseases at the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), said: “People should take the second dose in time. Even if there is a delay, they should still take it at the earliest. But delay in taking the second dose would lead to compromise with the potential immunity provided against Covid-19 by the concerned vaccine.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-as-vaccine-stock-runs-low-sisodia-calls-for-transparency-in-allocation-101621280696037.html
18-05-2021||Chandigarh||Construction of water treatment plant begins at Patiala’s Ablowal||The much-hyped canal-based water supply project worth ₹503 crore has been initiated with the start of construction work of 115 MLD water treatment plant at Patiala’s Ablowal village on Monday.Member of parliament from Patiala, Preneet Kaur, laid the foundation stone at an event organised by the district administration. However, Covid restrictions and guidelines went for toss as no social distancing was observed at the venue.The project aims at channelising the water distribution system, besides assisting in controlling depleted underground water table due to the traditional tubewell system.It is one of the dream projects for Patiala. In 2006, the project was proposed to ensure round-the-clock water supply, but the project got buried under piles of official documents for over a decade, before regaining pace after Captain Amarinder Singh came to power in 2017.Preneet said the project includes water treatment plant of 115 MLD (million litre per day), a clear water reservoir of 17.28 MLD besides storage and sedimentation tank of 236 MLD at Ablowal village.“Nearly 5 lakh people of the city would get 24x7 uninterrupted clean water supply through this project. The work of this important project would be completed within the stipulated time by Punjab water supply and sewerage board and Larsen and Toubro company,” she added.As per the details, the multi-crore project has been divided into two phases. In the first phase, at least 35 cusecs of water will be fetched from Bhakra canal, stored and treated on 32 acres at Ablowal. In the second phase, water fetched from Ghaggar-link canal will be treated accordingly.Patiala mayor Sanjeev Sharma Bittu said currently, the city’s demand of 33 cusec water is being met with 134 tubewells, but due to the over 30 years’ old system, 60% water is getting wasted. “The two-phased project is being set up keeping in mind the year 2051, when population of the city is expected to be doubled. This project will then provide 63 cusecs water,” Bittu said.In 2019, the Union ministries of finance and urban development had given a green signal to the MC’s canal-based water supply system project, which was to be carried out as a joint venture by the state and the central governments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/construction-of-water-treatment-plant-begins-at-patiala-s-ablowal-101621281851655.html
18-05-2021||Chandigarh||191 ventilators lie unused in HP for want of skilled staff||At least 191 medical ventilators received from the Centre during the first Covid-19 wave last year under the PM Cares Fund are lying unused in Himachal Pradesh due to the lack of trained staff to operate them besides technical reasons. Till last year, the hill state had only 52 ventilators in its health institutions, including medical colleges. In June last year, the state received 574 ventilators from Chennai, including 178 portable ones of which 405 are functional. “All ventilators received from the Centre were distributed to the hospitals,” said Ramesh Chand, the deputy director, health, who is the nodal officer for procurement. “We have received ample personal protective equipment (PPE) kits and masks from the Centre,” he says. The ventilators were distributed to different hospitals for installation. Some hospitals installed them, anticipating the requirement, while a majority of them, particularly the district and zonal hospitals, remained reluctant to install them. The health department has now hired a private company to install the ventilators. A majority of the 191 ventilators are lying unused for want of the medical gas pipeline system and other accessories needed to operate them. Thirty ventilators were given to Indira Gandhi Medical College and Hospital in Shimla; 19 to Deen Dayal Upadhyay Hospital, Shimla; and 10 to Kamla Nehru Hospital. Five ventilators each were given to hospitals in Rohru and Rampur. Dr Rajendra Prasad Medical College, Tanda, got 42 ventilators and 15 went to Jawahar Lal Nehru Medical College, Chamba. Ten ventilators were given to hospitals in Palampur, but they were not installed and five were dispatched to the hospital in Nurpur, while 15 ventilators were given to the zonal hospital in Dharamshala. The ventilators given to the Palampur hospitals were later shifted to Dr Rajendra Prasad Medical College, Tanda, as the hospitals did not have doctors who could operate them. The health department has a shortage of skilled technical staff, including anaesthetists to operate the equipment. Stock unused, returned to Centre While the stock is lying unused, high-load health institutions, such as Rajendra Prasad Government Medical College, Tanda, and Lal Bahadur Shastri Government Medical College, Nerchowk, are facing shortage of ventilators. RPGMC, Tanda, has 72 ICU beds and all of them are occupied as on May 16. Similarly, LBSGMC has also exhausted its 50-ICU bed facility. Indira Gandhi Medical College, Shimla, has 45 ventilator beds of which 38 are occupied. According to health department sources, the state received 250 more ventilators from the Centre around two months ago, but these were later returned. While the health authorities claimed that these were portable ventilators and were meant for another state, the sources said that the Centre recalled these ventilators as they were lying unused. Foreign aid reaches Himachal Himachal Pradesh has received medical equipment to fight the pandemic from various countries. Among them are 96 large oxygen cylinders from Finland, 25,000 viral transport mediums (VTMs), mask and PPE kits from Kazakhstan; 288 large oxygen cylinders from Singapore; and 25,000 rapid testing kits from South Korea. Earlier, 50 ventilators from Switzerland, 41 from Spain, 20 from Canada, 10 large ICU ventilators from Egypt were received. Shimla has got 150 large oxygen cylinders from England, 283 small oxygen cylinders from Kuwait, 100 small oxygen cylinders from Korea, 185 cylinders from Taiwan, 596 remdesivir injections from the US and 80,000 masks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/191-ventilators-lie-unused-in-hp-for-want-of-skilled-staff-101621281611591.html
18-05-2021||Chandigarh||Paddy transplantation to begin on June 10 in Punjab||The Punjab agriculture department has decided to advance the start of paddy transplantation in the upcoming kharif season. The decision to begin the sowing on June 10 came considering the shortage of labour due to ongoing pandemic. The decision will also facilitate staggered paddy sowing so that social distancing protocols could be maintained. The state authorities are cautious as the virus has spread its tentacles in the rural areas of Punjab. In 2020, the paddy sowing had begun on June 13 and in 2019, it was mandated to start paddy transplantation from June 20 in a bid to conserve subsoil water which fulfils 85% irrigation needs in the state. The Punjab government had passed a legislation to ensure that all farmers adhere to the transplantation schedule, but it was left with no options but to advance the process due to the pandemic. “We have no other option right now. There is acute labour shortage, so we have decided to advance the paddy transplantation,” said SS Sidhu, director, agriculture. The state government’s legislation that paddy wouldn’t be sown before June 20 outlines that late transplant is complemented by monsoon and there is not much dependence on the subsoil water. However, in 2019, when the campaign for parliament elections was going on, Punjab CM, on the demand of farmers, had announced to advance the process by a week to June 13. By an estimate of state agriculture department, 12.5 lakh labour heads are required to sow paddy in 30 days’ time frame. “But so many people to transplant paddy in the state are not available,” Sidhu said. Paddy is a major kharif crop in state, which is expected to be sown across 70 lakh acres in the forthcoming season. In the previous seasons, PAU had been taking a stand for not changing transplant schedule keeping in view acute fall of subsoil water table across the state and a report by central ground water board asking state machinery to regulate water usage.However, this year, PAU vice-chancellor BS Dhillon said that Covid crises are worsening and the virus is spreading fast in the rural Punjab. “This is the least we could do to help our farmers,” he V-C said.Direct seeing of rice on 30 lakh acresThe agriculture department has decided that out of total area of 66 lakh acres under paddy in the ensuing season, direct seeding of rice will be done on at least 30 lakh acres. In the previous season, 12.5 lakh acres were under the DSR method. “The trials conducted in the previous season have shown good results, and we are ready to increase the area,” said the director.The department has pegged the area under premium quality basmati paddy at 13 lakh hectares, an increase of one-third in total area. The sowing of aromatic variety begins from first week of July and that of DSR from the mid of June.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/paddy-transplantation-to-begin-on-june-10-in-punjab-101621281551671.html
18-05-2021||Chandigarh||HP sees 27% increase in fatalities in a week||With 439 people succumbing to the virus in the last week, Himachal Pradesh registered a 27% increase in fatalities against 346 Covid-induced deaths reported in the second week of May. The state had clocked an all-time high of 70 deaths on May 16. Since the outbreak, the virus has claimed 2,311 people in the state. Himachal has a fatality rate of 1.44%, which is higher than the national average of 1.1%.Kangra is leading the charts in both infections and deaths. With 150 deaths, the most populous district logged an average 21 deaths a day over the week. It has recorded 662 deaths and has a fatality rate of 1.89%. Shimla has registered 463 fatalities since the outbreak and 63 in the past week alone. Mandi’s death count has reached 265, of which 48 took place in the last seven days. Similarly, Solan’s total count is 199, of which 46 succumbed between May 10 and 16.Kangra, Shimla, Mandi, Solan account for 60% of casesThe hill state also registered a 9% rise in new infections over the past week with a total of 1,60,240 positive cases recorded till Sunday. Health department data shows the state recorded 28,817 cases over the last one week compared to 46,432 cases recorded in the preceding week.Kangra alone accounts for 20% of the total caseload. The four worst-hit districts of Kangra, Shimla, Mandi and Solan share 60% of the cases. The four districts have recorded a cumulative 96,399 cases to date since the outbreak. Kangra recorded 8,686 new cases in a week, 17% more than the previous week’s tally of 7,410 infections. Mandi recorded 3,471 new cases, Solan 2,624 and Shimla 2,418.60% increase in recoveriesWith the rise in cases, the number of recoveries has also gone up. As many as 23,945 people recuperated in last week compared to 14,897 recoveries during the second week of the month—a rise of about 60%.May 16 saw highest single day recoveries at 4,974. Among the districts, Kangra has clocked highest recoveries of 22,706 followed by Mandi (17,748), Shimla (16,965) and Solan (15,343). The recovery rate has climbed up slightly to 75.5% compared to 73.8% in the preceding week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hp-sees-27-increase-in-fatalities-in-a-week-101621281431518.html
18-05-2021||Chandigarh||Harassment allegations against Channi: Women commission chief threatens to go hunger strike if govt doesn’t act||Punjab State Commission for Women chairperson Manisha Gulati on Monday threatened to go on an indefinite hunger strike if the state government fails to act on a clarification sought by her in harassment allegations by a women IAS officer against cabinet minister Charanjeet Singh Channi. In November 2018, the IAS officer had accused Channi of harassing her even as no formal complaint was lodged in this regard. The development comes in the wake of Channi holding a meeting with a cabinet colleague and Congress MLAs, including Navjot Singh Sidhu, over alleged mishandling of the sacrilege and police firing cases by the Amarinder Singh-led government. “Despite several reminders, I have not received any reply from the government and now I am being held guilty by a section of the officers for not taking action. I am not answerable to the government but to the women of the state,” she said in a press conference in Chandigarh, asking the government to file a time-bound reply to a fresh communiqué sent by the commission. “The matter can be taken up even 10 years after its occurrence. The government should know how powerful the (women) commission is. In case anything happens to me, the government will responsible,” she said. “In 2018, I had taken suo motto action and sought clarification from the then chief secretary Karan Avtar Singh about the matter. I had sent a reminder also but there was no reply,” added Gulati. “The CM had then given a statement that the minister has sought forgiveness. No one accuse me of being hand in glove with the minister and not taking action against him. I have never spoken to him. I will campaign in the 2022 state polls and make public aware as how women in the state are treated,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/harassment-allegations-against-channi-women-commission-chief-threatens-to-go-hunger-strike-if-govt-doesn-t-act-101621281374394.html
18-05-2021||Chandigarh||Programme to detect sick patients floated in Barnala||Amid surge in Covid cases in Barnala villages, Pendu Sanjeevani Committee — a community-based programme — has been launched for timely medical intervention at grassroots level, subdivisional magistrate Varjeet Walia said on Monday.The SDM said that early proactive detection of all sick patients in the villages, facilitating their testing, ensuring medication, daily monitoring of vitals and timely referral to Level-2 facilities in case of health deterioration are the core principles of the committee which comprises registered medical practitioners (RMPs), health workers, patwari, guardians of governance (GoG), and volunteers. The programme was launched from Chananwal of the district. “Daily door-to-door health survey began on May 14, a day after the launch. This included recording of vitals such as body temperature, SPO2 levels, heart rate and symptoms experienced. Total 16 people with Covid-19 symptoms were identified on May 15. Of the identified sick patients, 11 underwent Covid tests,” he added. As per this programme, daily village health survey reports will be provided to chief health officer and senior medical officer. They will categorise all patients in the village under Level 1 and Level 2 stages.“The idea is that the committee members will first identify non-tested patients and then motivate and counsel them for testing and isolation. Body vitals of such patients will be recorded daily in the survey, which will help us gauge the medical condition of the patients who do not come forward for testing. Suitable medical treatment would be given to these L1 or L2 patients. This model would result in reduction of fatalities in villages,” the SDM added. Panels formed to tackle Covid in Patiala rural areas
18-05-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab set to engage RMPs to combat Covid in rural areas||The Punjab government has decided to rope in registered medical practitioners (RMPs) in its fight against the coronavirus pandemic in rural areas of the state. In a video conference, chief secretary Vini Mahajan on Sunday asked the district administrations and health department officials to chalk out a plan to improve rural outreach across the state. Officials said RMPs, also referred to as quacks by medical professionals, may prove helpful in convincing residents in villages to get themselves tested for Covid-19 and follow the medical protocol. According to estimates, Punjab has nearly 70,000 RMPs working in cities and rural pockets. The RMPs do not have medical degrees but practice medicine, predominantly in peri-urban and rural areas. “They might be criticised by various sections but the RMPs can play a significant role a time when the pandemic has spread aggressively in rural pockets and people are hesitating to get tested,” said a senior health official.Mansa was the first district to engage RMPs to contain the spread of virus in villages.Bathinda deputy commissioner B Srinivasan said a special outreach drive with RMPs on board will commence in the district from Wednesday. “The RMPs will be members of a group of health workers contacting residents in the rural belts. They will not treat any patient but will take stock of health condition of people and report to the health authorities for further action,” he added.In the predominantly rural belt of south Malwa districts, there has been a spurt of infections and mortalities. On Monday, Fazilka had 10 villages declared as containment zone.Fazilka civil surgeon Parminder Singh said the health teams will be strengthened by engaging RMPs and they can help in reducing the burden on over-stressed hospitals.“People in villages hesitate in sharing their health status with officials but they feel comfortable with RMPs. They share a bonding with these practitioners and we can make use of their relationship in enhancing health surveillance effectively,” he said.Ramesh Kumar Bali, president of the Medical Practitioners Association of Punjab, a union of RMPs, said he recently discussed the issue of roping in RMPs with health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu and the chief minister’s adviser Sandeep Sandhu.“More than 60,000 RMPs in Punjab have at least an experience of 10-years and they can be engaged for mass awareness at villages. The RMPs have the largest network of healthcare at the grassroots level. Our team can motivate people to go for isolation and taking vaccination by removing misconception about the pandemic,” said Bali.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-set-to-engage-rmps-to-combat-covid-in-rural-areas-101621281372486.html
18-05-2021||Chandigarh||Lahan, illicit liquor seized from Congress MLA aide’s house in Khemkaran||A joint team of excise department and police on Monday recovered 400-kg lahan (raw material used for making liquor) and 400 litre illicit liquor from the house of a confidant of Congress’ Khemkaran MLA Sukhpal Singh Bhullar at Dayalpura village of Tarn Taran district. The accused, Nirbhai Singh, a panchayat member, escaped from the spot even as he was present at the time of the raid. In a video clip that was purportedly shot during the raid, Nirbhai is seen talking on phone. His “servant” Ranjit Singh was arrested, the police said. Excise department officials said the raid was conducted early morning on a tip-off. Three drums were also recovered from the spot. A case was registered against Nirbhai and Ranjit Singh under sections 61-1-14 of the Excise Act at the Bhikhiwind police station. “We had information that Nirbhai was involved in bootlegging. He is a panchayat member but claimed himself to be village sarpanch. We didn’t know how he escaped from the spot,” said Inspector Jatinder Singh of the excise department.Kacha Pakka police post in-charge sub-inspector (SI) Lakhwinder Singh, who was part of the raid, said, “We nabbed Ranjit but Nirbhai managed to flee.” It was the police team that allowed Nirbhai to escape from the spot, it is learnt. Senior superintendent of police (SSP) Dhruman H Nimbale said, “I will check if the accused was present at the time of the raid.”An excise official said, “We even got a call from MLA Bhullar’s personal assistant who asked us to oblige Nirbhai.” MLA Bhullar said, “I do not know why he kept such a large quantity of liquor at his residence.” About his photos with the accused, he said, “He is from my constituency and it’s normal to get photographed with people from one’s area.” In another raid in the village, the team arrested Nishan Singh, also a Congress worker, after 400-kg lahan and 20 litre illicit liquor were recovered from his premises.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/lahan-illicit-liquor-seized-from-congress-mla-aide-s-house-in-khemkaran-101621281313702.html
18-05-2021||Chandigarh||3 SITs on task, focus back on sacrilege, police firing cases||With Punjab heading for elections early next year, the politically sensitive cases of sacrilege of Guru Granth Sahib and subsequent police firing in Faridkot district’s Kotkapura and Behbal Kalan in 2015 are back in the spotlight as three special investigation teams (SITs) have been tasked with expediting probe to take these cases to their “logical conclusion”.The investigation into these cases was put on the fast track last week by the state government with the SIT headed by inspector general of police SPS Parmar probing the sacrilege cases arrested six followers of Sirsa-based Dera Sacha Sauda for desecration at Bargari. The SIT led by additional director general of police (ADGP) LK Yadav that was formed on May 8 to probe the Kotkapura cases also started inquiry after visiting the firing site, besides taking case records in possession from the local police station. On May 15, the government also formed a three-member SIT headed by IGP (Ludhiana range) Naunihal Singh to probe the Behbal Kalan firing case. As the issue of delay in justice in the sacrilege and police firing cases is echoing within the ruling Congress, many senior party leaders have been critical of the state government’s handling of the matter. Amritsar (East) MLA Navjot Singh Sidhu has been continuously hitting out at chief minister Amarinder Singh accusing him of protesting the Badals with “nefarious intentions”.Since 2015, two judicial commissions and five SITs (including two new SITs constituted this month) have been formed by the state government, besides a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) which had given clean chit to the accused dera men.The previous SITs have pointed out “conspiracy” following a series of sacrilege and police firing incidents. The SIT headed by SPS Parmar is looking into the three FIRs registered at the Bajakhana police station in connection with sacrilege of Guru Granth Sahib. The first case pertained to the theft of the bir (copy of Guru Granth Sahib) from Burj Jawahar Singh Wala village near Kotkapura in Faridkot district on June 1, 2015. The second was the putting up of derogatory posters at Bargari on September 25, 2015; and the third was the sacrilege of Guru Granth Sahib as torn pages of the bir were found scattered in front of a gurdwara at Bargari on October 12, 2015. The Parmar-led SIT had put focus on the third FIR with the arrest of the six dera men and this is for the first time that arrests were made in this case.Before the CBI officially started inquiry after being handed over probe into the three sacrilege incidents by the previous Akali-BJP government, a three-member SIT headed by former IG Ranbir Singh Khatra had arrested more than 20 dera followers, including Mohinder Pal Bittu, who was killed in the Nabha jail in 2019, in connection with two other sacrilege incidents in 2015 and rioting in Punjab in 2011. The SIT claims the dera followers had confessed to the crime.In July 2019, the CBI had filed a closure report in three sacrilege cases, saying it could not find any proof against the accused. The Congress government, however, took back the cases from the CBI and handed over the probe to the SIT led by Khatra. In July last year, the SIT named jailed Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh, national committee members of dera — Sandeep Bretta, Pardeep Kler and Harsh Dhuri — as accused and filed a chargesheet against seven sect followers (including five arrested by Parmar-led SIT) in a case relating to the theft of the ‘bir’. But later, all were released on bail.On the Punjab and Haryana High Court’s order quashing all the reports submitted by SIT headed by (now retired) IG Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh, the state government constituted new three-member SIT headed by ADGP Yadav. As per information, SIT is going through the previous investigation and looking into all the legal challenges.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/3-sits-on-task-focus-back-on-sacrilege-police-firing-cases-101621281312673.html
18-05-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal logs 3,546 fresh infections, 58 deaths||Himachal Pradesh on Monday recorded 3,546 fresh Covid-19 infections taking the state’s tally to 1,63,786 while the death toll mounted to 2,369 after 58 patients succumbed to the contagion.Of the new cases 1,215 were reported in Kangra, 429 in Mandi, 389 in Sirmaur, 344 in Hamirpur, 300 in Shimla, 242 in Bilaspur, 200 in Chamba, 181 in Una, 99 in Kullu, 79 in Solan, 49 in Kinnaur and 24 in Lahaul-Spiti.Highest 24 fatalities were reported in Kangra, 10 in Solan, seven in Shimla, five in Sirmaur, four in Una, three in Bilaspur, two each in Kullu and Mandi and one in Kinnaur.There 36,633 active cases in the state while recoveries reached 1,24,750 after 3,760 people recuperated.Kangra remains the worst hit district with 36,159 infections and is followed by Mandi with 22,313 cases and Shimla 20,860 cases.Solan has total 19,085 cases, Sirmaur 12,671, Hamirpur 11,601, Una 10,621, Bilaspur 10,198, Chamba 8,118 , Kullu 7,396, Lahaul-Spiti 2,388 and Kinnaur 2,376.HP guvs wife tests positive, hospitalised Himachal Pradesh governor Bandaru Dattatreya’s wife Vasantha Dattatreya tested positive for the novel coronavirus here on Monday. She was hospitalised at state’s premier medical Institute – Indira Gandhi Medical College.The Raj Bhawan spokesperson said after the development the governor has isolated himself and cancelled his appointments for the next few days. Four other staff members, including two cooks, a peon and female attendant in the governor’s house have also tested positive. All four have been isolated. Both the governor and his wife Vasantha had been administered two dose of the vaccine. “She has been hospitalised as a precautionary measure,” said senior medical superintendent Janak Raj Pakhretia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-logs-3-546-fresh-infections-58-deaths-101621281311628.html
18-05-2021||Chandigarh||18+ vax launched in HP: 31% residents vaccinated, no vials wasted, says Jai Ram||Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur launched a statewide vaccination drive for people in the 18 to 44 age bracket here on Monday. Approximately 31 lakh residents will be inoculated in the third phase of vaccination across the hill state. So far, 21,090 people have booked a slot on the CoWIN portal. As jabs to the 18 plus group will only be administered each Tuesday and Thursday, the next four dates of vaccination for the age bracket are May 20, 24, 27 and 31. Slots for the May 20 session will become visible on the application on May 18.1 lakh vials availableAsking the masses, particularly those in rural areas, to get the jab, the CM said, “Around 1,00,700 vials are available across 213 vaccination centres in the state. Hundred people will be vaccinated every day in each centre. So far, we have vaccinated 31% of the population. We are among the few states that have ensured 0% vaccine wastage.” He was speaking at the sidelines of an event organised at Government Senior Secondary School, Chotta Shimla. A total of 21,50,353 shots have been administered to the people of the state, the CM said.A good number of youngsters showed up on the first day of the vaccination drive. Shailja Pathania, a housewife. “We appreciate the efforts of the government as vaccination is the only way to protect us against the deadly virus “ said Shailja Pathania, a housewife.Enthusiasm ran high among the youngsters. “I was nervous about receiving the first dose, but it went well. I appeal all youngsters on my age group to get themselves vaccinated,” said Shivangi Thakur, 18, a student.The vaccination drive for health workers in the state had been launched on January 16, for frontline workers on February 2, for the ‘60 plus’ group and those aged between 45 and 60 with comorbidities on March 1 and for the 45 plus group on April 1. 90% patients in home isolationVirtually interacting with accredited social health activist (Asha) workers across the state, the CM urged them to ensure better coordination with Covid patients in home isolation so that their health condition could be monitored better. “Delay in shifting the Covid patients in home isolation to hospitals is one of the major causes for fatalities in the state. Since around 90% of Covid patients in the state are in home isolation, ASHA workers are the bridge between the patients and health department.” Govt concealing data: Cong chief Himachal Pradesh Congress Committee Chief Kuldeep Singh Rathore has expressed concern over the slow pace of the vaccination programme in the state. He asked that the government ramp up testing and the pace of vaccination for all eligible groups. Rathore said, “At the moment, the government is getting a large amount of relief material as well as money from abroad. The government should disclose where the money and the relief material is being used.The government is hiding figures pertaining to the pandemic.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/18-vax-launched-in-hp-31-residents-vaccinated-no-vials-wasted-says-jairam-101621281191534.html
18-05-2021||Other||Maharashtra sees 26,616 new Covid-19 cases; tally now 5,405,068||Maharashtra recorded 26,616 daily Covid-19 infections on Monday, pushing the tally to 5,405,068. The active cases declined to 445,495 after 48,211 recoveries were reported in the past 24 hours. The state saw 516 fatalities, taking the toll to 82,486. Kolhapur reported the highest toll on Monday with 101 deaths – (83 deaths in district and 18 in the city), followed by Solapur with 56 deaths (49 in district and seven in the city). After three months of surge, the daily cases in Maharashtra have gradually started declining. It became possible, however, only after a complete lockdown was imposed across the state on April 22. The state is now looking for a decline of 50% in daily cases by the end of this month, officials said. For the past four consecutive days, Maharashtra has been reporting less than 40,000 cases. On May 14, 15 and 16, it reported 39,923, 34,848 and 34,389, respectively. On April 18, the state saw the highest daily surge of 68,631cases which is also been seen as the peak of the start of the second wave. Till May 1, the tally of daily cases was more than 60,000 cases (63,282 cases). The daily positivity rate of the state is also on decline as it was 15.91%, 14.68% and 12.99% on May 14, 15 and 16, respectively. On May 14, the state conducted 250,784 tests, while on May 15 and 16, 237,264 and 264,587 were conducted. In the last 24 hours, the state tested 234,416 samples and had a positivity rate of 11.35%. However, the overall positivity rate of the state stood at 17.25%, according to the data issued by the state health department. “Situation is coming under control as we can see decline in cases. Since last month, our daily average cases has seen a drop of 30% as it has been reduced to 40,000 from 65,000. As lockdown restrictions have been extended we are expecting that the daily cases will be reduced to less than 30,000 by the end of this month,” said Dr Tatyarao Lahane, director, Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER). Maharashtra’s effective reproduction number (R) for Covid-19, which indicates how fast the infection is spreading, has also declined to 1.03 from 1.45 on April 30, according to an analysis prepared by the state health department. For a pandemic to come to an end, the R value has to be sustained under 1. This infection rate was recorded 0.36 in February when the second wave hit the state. In March, it went up to 1.33. However, districts such as Solapur, Pune, Ahmednagar, Nashik, Sangli, Kolhapur and Beed are still contributing a significant number of cases every day. On Friday, Solapur reported 2,679 cases, highest in the state. Pune recorded 2,262 cases, Ahmednagar 1,851 cases, Nashik 1788 cases, Sangli 1,689 cases, Kolhapur 1,335 cases and Beed 1,100 cases. Mumbai also clocked 1,232 cases that took the tally to 689,062. It also reported 48 casualties taking the toll to 14,272. “Peak in daily cases has come late in some of the districts which has impacted the overall figures of daily cases of the state. Once peak is over in the respective districts then the situation in the state will look much better,” said a senior health official, wishing not to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/maharashtra-sees-26-616-new-covid-19-cases-tally-now-5405068-101621280770958.html
18-05-2021||Chandigarh||Virus claims record nine lives in Haryana’s Panchkula district||With nine patients succumbing to Covid-19 on Monday, Panchkula district recorded its highest death toll in a day since the outbreak last March. The number of fatalities has climbed to 294, with 140 logged during the second wave since April 1. The case fatality rate has climbed to 3.7%.Those dead included a 35-year-old man from Sector 19 besides three people in their 40s and one in the 50s. The remaining three were in the age group of 65-79.Meanwhile, 241 people tested positive for the virus, down from Sunday’s 285 cases. The district had hit the peak on May 5 with 654 cases.According to experts, there is around a two-week gap between the peak in cases and deaths, as critical patients tend to remain hospitalised for a longer time.Meanwhile, Mohali recorded 11 deaths while six people died in Chandigarh, taking the tricity’s total to 26, down from Sunday’s 30.The tricity’s cumulative infection tally stood at 1,750 on Monday, going up from 1,491 the previous day. Earlier, after hitting the peak with 2,612 cases on May 10, the number of cases had dropped down to 1,405 on May 15.The spike was largely due to Mohali district, which reported 889 cases on Monday, up from Sunday’s 542.Mohali city accounted for 242 cases, followed by 201 in Dhakoli, 130 in Kharar, 115 in Dera Bassi, 63 in Gharuan, 47 in Kurali, 26 in Boothgarh and eight in Banur. The district has reported 14,920 cases in May so far, as compared to 19,406 throughout April. However, with 938 patients being discharged, the active case load has come down to 8,657.In Chandigarh, 620 people tested positive, down from 664 on Sunday. The number of those recovered stood at 876, which brought down the number of active cases to 7,382. With more people being cured and discharged than those testing positive, the active case load of the tricity has dropped to 18,258 from peak of 24,201 on May 12.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/virus-claims-record-nine-lives-in-haryana-s-panchkula-district-101621280413215.html
18-05-2021||Ranchi||Govt to bear cost of cremation of Covid-19 victims in state: Jharkhand CM||Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren on Monday announced that the state government has decided to bear the cost of cremation of Covid-19 victims in the state. “Direction has been issued that cremation of Covid-19 victims would be done free of cost. Required firewood would be provided free of cost at the crematoriums. At the graveyards, JCBs would put in place for digging (graves) free of cost,” the chief minister said while elaborating on financial help being provided to Covid-19 affected people in the state. Addressing a virtual meeting after inaugurating an 80-bed Covid-19 facility in Ramgarh district, put in place in association with Tata Steel, the chief minister also underlined that the state government is preparing extensively to identify positive cases in the rural areas and provide them with adequate treatment. Over 3,000 people have succumbed to Covid-19 in the state since the second wave of the pandemic hit the state in the first week of May. Rapid test in rural areasElaborating on the plans of the state government in dealing with the rampaging disease in the rural areas, which are more vulnerable due to inadequate health care facilities, the chief minister said, “testing centres in rural areas are being set up where health workers would conduct rapid antigen test (RAT). They would be sent to isolation centres if required. If they are to remain in home isolation, medical kits will be provided. We have distributed 22 lakh test kits and have further demanded 45 lakh kits from the Centre,” Soren said. Vaccinating local body representatives on priorityHighlighting the importance of vaccination in batting this health crisis, the CM said the turnout for the 18-44 category has been encouraging. “But there is visible reluctance in the rural areas about vaccination due to certain cultural practices related to healthcare as well as some rumour-mongering. We need to vaccinate the local body representatives in order to build confidence among people,” said Soren.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/govt-to-bear-cost-of-cremation-of-covid-19-victims-in-state-jharkhand-cm-101621280411522.html
18-05-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab’s vaccine quota for 45-plus category dries up||The Covid-19 vaccination drive in Punjab for the 45-plus age category has almost dried up for want of vaccine. Also, the state is yet to fully open vaccination drive for the 18-44 age category. According to reports from various districts, there was a hue and cry at most of the vaccination centres for the second consecutive day with a large number of people returning home without a jab. On Sunday, there were only 5,200 doses available for the 45-plus category, which, on Monday, came down to 4,200. Punjab is left with only a few hundred doses of Covishield and Covaxine that senior health officials say will suffice only for those seeking the second dose on Tuesday. Even as state government is left with around 1.5 lakh doses of Covishield for the 18-plus category, the quota has been reserved for families of health workers and the construction workers, falling in this age criteria. The Centre will send 75,000 doses for 45-plus category on Tuesday which are likely to reach the vaccination centres by the same evening. Director, health and family welfare, GB Singh, said because of the shortage of the vials, the vaccination for 44-plus category could not take place on Monday as well. State finally orders one-lakh Covaxine doses The Punjab government, which till now was dithering from purchasing Covaxine, on Monday booked an order of one-lakh doses with Bharat Biotech. Earlier, the focus of the government has been on purchasing Covishield from Serum Institute of India (SII) and it didn’t make purchase of Covaxine citing its high price and the availability of Covishield with almost same efficacy at much lower price. “Many other states booked both Covaxine and Covishield and their supplies from the private manufactures for the 18-plus category is better than ours,” a health department official said. Principal secretary, health and family welfare, Hussan Lal, said Covaxine is being purchased for the employees working in different industrial units. “Many industrial units have requested us to make the purchase for which they will contribute,” said the principal secretary. He said the vaccine supply may be better ease in coming days as the private hospitals of the state are also likely to get 2-lakh doses by the end of this month. On Monday, deputy commissioners also asked the private hospitals which were inoculating the 45-plus category people to give their requirement by May 28. National vice-president of India Medical Association (IMA) Dr Navjot Dahiya said the state should speed-up efforts to provide vaccines to private hospitals as manufactures have expressed their inability to supply any directly to them at least for the next six months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjabs-vaccine-quota-for-45-plus-category-dries-up-101621280232824.html
18-05-2021||Other||UP Board asks schools to upload marks of High School pre board exams on website||UP Board, formally known as Uttar Pradesh Madhyamik Shiksha Parishad (UPMSP), has asked all schools affiliated to it to upload subject-wise and total marks obtained by high school students in either pre board exams or any internal assessment on board's official website upmsp.edu.in by Tuesday evening, according to a letter issued by board secretary Divyakant Shukla on Monday.The missive said the step was in accordance with the instructions received from higher officials.In the missive addressed to all district Inspector of schools (DIOS), Shukla has asked them to instruct all principals of schools concerned to mandatorily upload all information on the board website by May 18.The missive make its plain that DIOS concerned will be held directly responsible if any school fails to upload the information as required.It has also instructed officials not to show any complacency in this regard. The copy of the letter has also been sent to all divisional joint education directors and additional secretaries of Meerut, Bareilly, Varanasi, Prayagraj and Gorakhpur zones of the board.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/up-board-asks-schools-to-upload-marks-of-high-schools-pre-board-exams-on-website-101621280230943.html
18-05-2021||Chandigarh||Lockdown to continue in Chandigarh till May 25||The Chandigarh administration on Monday extended the lockdown in the city by another week, without giving any relaxations. The decision was taken in the Covid review meeting chaired by UT administrator VP Singh Badnore. The lockdown, which was to end on Tuesday morning, will now continue till 5am on May 25.A UT spokesperson said the decision was taken “so that the gain of plateauing of case load due to the lockdown is not lost (sic).” The move comes in the backdrop of strong opposition from the business community, which was demanding some relaxations, such as implementation of the odd-even formula for opening non-essential shops. “It is a tough time for traders, as we have to pay taxes and give salaries to our staff too even though our shops continue to remain closed,” said Sanjeev Chadha, general secretary, Chandigarh Beopar Mandal. “Why can’t markets in the city open on the odd-even format, as in Mohali?” Chandigarh Beopar Mandal president Charan Jiv Singh said they will hold peaceful protests from Wednesday, which will be launched from the market in Sector 23. Kamaljit Singh Panchhi, president, Chandigarh Traders Association, Sector 17, also opposed the move, and demanded a relief package for the city’s traders. Vyapar Sadan president Arvind Jain sent a list of suggestions to the administrator on how markets can be opened in a phased manner to prevent overcrowding. DC to meet trader bodiesIn order to assuage the business community, the deputy commissioner will meet the representatives of various associations to solicit their views and suggestions regarding relief that could be provided to them due to losses being suffered during the lockdown. Badnore appealed to the landlords of small residential houses to voluntarily reduce house rents for the lockdown period, in order to give relief to their tenants, who have lost their income, and prevent their migration. Even Punjab and Haryana governments had extended the lockdown on Sunday. It will remain in force till 5am on May 24 in Haryana and till May 31 in Punjab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/lockdown-to-continue-in-chandigarh-till-may-25-101621280172441.html
18-05-2021||Chandigarh||Jakhar denies VB probe against party leaders||Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar on Monday denied the rumours of vigilance probe against party leaders, asserting that there was no truth in them. Reacting to Jalandhar Cantonment MLA Pargat Singh’s charge of a threat call by the chief minister’s political secretary, Jakhar said that he (Pargat) was a role model for the youth and the party respected his sentiments. “The main agenda is to save the people from Covid-19 and to punish the perpetrators of sacrilege incidents that happened during the previous government,” the PPCC chief said, denying the vendetta politics charge. He said the Congress was against using the constitutional institutions to settle scores and it was unthinkable to do so against its own MLAs. ‘Sandhu says he made no threat call’ Jakhar also said that Capt Sandeep Sandhu, political secretary to chief minister, himself had made it clear that he never made any threatening phone call to the legislator. “It appears to be more a case of misunderstanding than a threat. If he (Sandhu) made such a call and said those things at someone else’s behest, it is indeed a matter of probe,” he added. He also urged chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh to investigate the propaganda regarding vigilance probes against party leaders as it was tarnishing the image of the party. These mischievous rumours were being spread to divert attention from the pandemic and bringing the culprits in sacrilege incidents to book by completing the probe quickly, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jakhar-denies-vb-probe-against-party-leaders-101621279873177.html
18-05-2021||Other||Karnataka forms task force on black fungus, so far identifies 97 cases in state||Bengaluru The Karnataka government has indentified at least 97 cases of mucormycosis or black fungus from across the state, K Sudhakar, the minister for health, family welfare and medical education said on Monday. “Compared to normal years, this (black fungus) has been seen in quite a few people,” Sudhakar said on Monday. He added that the disease should not be compared to Covid-19 or believe that it can transmit in the same fashion as Covid-19.In a bid to contain the spread of black fungus across the state, the government has formed a specialised task force comprising ENT specialists, microbiologists and other senior officials from the government that will be headed by HS Satish, the head of the department for ENT at state-run Victoria Hospital.The new infection comes amid a raging Covid-19 pandemic that has thrown life out gear in the state as well as the country for over a year now.The disease is said to appear in those persons who have immunocompromised conditions like cancer, HIV and other problems, the minister said. Sudhakar said that even Covid-19 infected persons with uncontrolled diabetes and are given higher steroids can contract the disease.“The fungus enters through the nasal cavity in persons with low immunity. Then it will attack eyesight. One should get treatment immediately after it enters the nose. It is learnt that the water used in humidifiers in hospitals is causing this. (An) experts panel has been set up to find out the exact cause of this disease. Measures will be taken after the expert committee submit its report,” Sudhakar said. “This is a notified disease and all private hospitals, ENT specialists should inform the government if such cases are discovered. This information cannot be kept private and must be informed to the government. Hiding it from the government is against the law,” the minister added.Drugs like Amphotericin B are used to treat the disease. The supply of the drug, however, is controlled by the centre and it has so far allocated 1050 vials to Karnataka, the minister said, of which the state had received 450 till date.Several states in India have reported a high number of black fungus cases that has added to the panic amid the Covid-19 pandemic.Sudhakar said that the government has placed orders for around 20,000 vials of the medicine along with two other drugs, which are also effective against black fungus.The minister said that at least five centres across Karnataka which includes Bengaluru, Mysuru, Hubbali, Kalaburagi and Shivamogga will start opening by Thursday to treat people who contracted the disease.Sudhakar said that the new task force will also try to determine the source of the infection. Both Covid and Black fungus patients are treated free of cost, he added.CN Ashwath Narayan, the deputy chief minister of Karnataka and chairperson of the state’s Covid task force on Monday called on ‘Global Innovation Alliance Partner Countries’, to partner with the state in exploring possibilities of procurement of drugs, specifically like Amphotericin B that is critical for treating Black Fungus infection, Remdesivir and Tocilizumab.He also asked these countries to partner with Karnataka in new technologies like nano medicine, Artificial Intelligence, Robotics, 3D Printing, Cloud Computing etc, with the approach of establishing a better health monitoring system.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/karnataka-forms-task-force-on-black-fungus-so-far-identifies-97-cases-in-state-101621279872095.html
18-05-2021||Other||Ludhiana’s daily cases below 1,000 for 2nd day in row||The number of Covid cases fell below 1, 000 for the second consecutive day on Monday with 851 fresh cases being reported. Another 20 deaths were reported, taking the toll to 1,740.Among those who died were 10 men and an equal number of women. The oldest to die is an 82-year-old resident of Mayapuri while the youngest is a 32-year-old resident of Shimlapuri.As many as eight of the total 20 deaths reported (40%) on Monday were of those who were in their 50s.Two persons who died were in their 30s, three in their 40s, two in their 60s, four deceased above the age of 70 and one above age of 80.The total number of patients related to Ludhiana is now 76,646.There are 12,837 active patients in the district at present.Deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma appealed to residents to adhere to all safety protocols such as wearing masks, maintaining social distance and washing hands frequently to not just save themselves but also everyone around them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhianas-daily-cases-below-1-000-for-2nd-day-in-row-101621279871509.html
18-05-2021||Chandigarh||CM’s political secy threatened me over phone: Pargat Singh||The rift in the ruling Congress in Punjab took a nasty turn when party MLA Pargat Singh on Monday accused Capt Sandeep Sandhu, political secretary to chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh, of threatening him for speaking his mind on the sacrilege and police firing cases. Pargat, who has been critical of his own government’s mishandling of the probe into these cases, alleged that Sandhu threatened him over the phone on Thursday night. “Sandhu said he was conveying the chief minister’s message that papers have been collected against me and I should be ready to face action. I asked him thrice whether the CM had told him to say these things and he (Sandhu) confirmed it,” the Jalandhar Cantonment MLA said at a press conference at his flat here. The two-time legislator said he told Sadhu to convey to the chief minister that he (Pargat) was ready to face any consequences. “I later even asked him if he has given my message to Capt, he confirmed that he has. If this is what one has to face for raising the sacrilege cases, power purchase agreements, illegal mining and probe into irrigation scam, so be it. I am ready to face any kind of probe. They can do whatever they want,” the former India hockey captain said, adding that he had informed Punjab Congress Sunil Jakhar about the threat call. While Sandhu did not respond to calls or text messages, no statement was issued by the chief minister’s office (CMO). Congress’ Rajya Sabha MP Partap Singh Bajwa termed the incident as extremely distressing. “I stand with him (Pargat) and his democratic right to speak about issues affecting Punjab. This continuous attempt to browbeat party MLAs for raising their voice must stop,” he tweeted. The Congress MLA’s serious allegations have left the state government red faced. Considered close to former minister Navjot Singh Sidhu, Pargat has been critical of the Amarinder Singh government’s handling of the sacrilege and police firing cases. After a meeting the chief minister held with party MLAs three weeks ago, he had hit out at the state government, stating there was perception among the people that Amarinder and Badals were hand in glove. Both Sidhu and Pargat had also held a meeting with some ministers and MLAs critical of the chief minister which did not go down well with the CM’s camp. At his press conference, Pargat also said the threat call from the CM’s aide had left him dejected because he had never expected such a thing. He also raised questions over the vigilance probe initiated against close associates of Sidhu and the bid to rake up a two-and-a-half-years old case of alleged harassment of a woman IAS officer against cabinet minister Charanjit Singh Channi who has also been discontented over the legal setback in the Kotkapura police firing case. “The misuse of agencies for arm-twisting and carrying out political vendetta must be stopped. Such threats will not work. They need to give up such tactics,” Pargat said, calling BIS Chahal, adviser to CM, the de facto DG of the State Vigilance Bureau. The MLA also denied that there was any attempt by them to form a group or camp in the party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cms-political-secy-threatened-me-over-phone-pargat-singh-101621279751416.html
18-05-2021||Chandigarh||Cyclone Tauktae: Chandigarh to feel the impact too||The ripples of the Cyclone Tauktae, which is expected to hit Gujarat on Monday night, will be felt in the city with light rain up to 20mm likely on Tuesday, and moderate to heavy rain between 30mm and 70mm on Wednesday and Thursday, as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD).The IMD has issued an orange alert for Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday for heavy rain and thunderstorms with gusty winds upto 50km/h. On Tuesday, the disturbance in weather is likely to start from the southern parts of Haryana and move towards Chandigarh. Orange is the second highest alert issued by the IMD, asking people to be prepared.Speaking about this, IMD scientist Shivinder Singh said, “Though the cyclone will break once it hits the coast of Gujarat, the circulations in the atmosphere will continue to move northwards owing to pressure differences. The winds, however, will be reduced in speed and are likely to go up to 50km/h. The activity will remain active in the city till Thursday and we can expect dry weather again from Friday onwards.”Sharp decline in temperature likelyThe maximum temperature is likely to remain around 27°C on Wednesday and Thursday. Even on Monday, the maximum temperature is likely to stay around 35°C due to cloudy weather and light rain of upto 20mm. The temperature will, however, start rising again from Friday onwards.The maximum temperature in the city went up from 39°C on Sunday to 40.7°C on Monday. The minimum temperature went up from 21.6°C on Sunday to 22.6°C on Monday. In the next three days, the maximum temperature is likely to remain between 35°C and 27°C, while the minimum temperature will remain between 22°C and 20°C.High western disturbance activity in city this yearBesides the cyclone, the region has also seen higher than average activity of western disturbances for this season. Speaking about this, IMD Chandigarh director AK Singh said, “What’s interesting is how these systems came one after the other in the past few days, which doesn’t happen around this time. We have had about six western disturbances affecting the region this year in April and May. Last year the number was around three.”Singh added that unlike the Indian monsoon, western disturbances are harder to predict: “They arise primarily due to temperature differences between the Arctic latitudes and the temperature latitudes. More such systems are expected in the season.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cyclone-taukate-chandigarh-to-feel-the-impact-too-101621279511438.html
18-05-2021||Chandigarh||Early-stage irrational use of steroids worsening Covid cases: PGI expert||At least 80% of the Covid-19 patients in the intensive care units (ICUs) of the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) are on ventilators.Administration of steroids at an early stage of treatment, which is “totally avoidable”, is one of the key reasons, said Dr GD Puri, who is the head of the department of anaesthesiology and intensive care at PGIMER. Dr Puri on Monday shared with the UT administrator that the institute was getting most patients in critical condition, who were referred there from various district hospitals in the neighbouring states.The expert, who also heads the Covid-19 management committee of the premier tertiary care institute, said: “Most patients in PGIMER are critical and the first reason could be that they are reaching here late. Second, they have already been given treatments in district hospitals or are left untreated.”“The third reason, which we are observing, is the irrational use of steroids, which is proving fatal,” he said.Steroids are medications which are used for reducing inflammation. Calling their use a “double-edged sword”, Dr Puri said: “We do not give steroids to treat viral cases. However, it was in September last year when the UK’s recovery trial showed benefits for Covid patients who were given steroids.”But that does not mean that doctors can give steroids without using rationality, he said. “What’s happening is that local physicians are coming up with various theories; they think if there is shortage of oxygen beds or other medicines, then why not give steroids before the disease worsens,” said the expert.Steroids can prove fatal“What they don’t realise is that if given without hypoxia (a condition in which the body or a part of the body is deprived of adequate oxygen supply), it can be harmful or even fatal for a patient,” he said.Dr Puri said that they do not give steroids in the first phase when viral replication is happening, because it may stimulate the virus and exaggerate its harmful effects, like dropping of oxygen and interference with the immune system.He said that it’s in the later stages (second week) when a patient has hypoxia and there are after-effects of the infection like inflammation. At this stage, steroids are to be given but with proper caution.“The dosage, timings and stage at which steroids have to be given is very crucial. One can not just advise steroids. Also, long-term usage of steroids in Covid-19 patients can also lead to secondary infections like black fungus,” Dr Puri said. He said that a team of PGIMER had been regularly educating physicians in the region on the judicious use of steroids.Currently, there are 368 Covid cases at PGIMER, of which 95 belong to Chandigarh, 140 to Punjab, 62 to Haryana, 27 to Himachal Pradesh and 44 from other states. There are 78 ventilators in PGIMER, of which 67 were occupied till Monday evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/earlystage-irrational-use-of-steroids-worsening-covid-cases-pgi-expert-101621279451552.html
18-05-2021||Other||Double murder convict out on parole held for choking another woman in Ludhiana||A week after a 30-year-old woman was found dead at her house in Jain Enclave on Bhamiyan Road, cops arrested an Uttar Pradesh (UP) resident, facing life imprisonment in a 2003 double murder case, for the crime. He had been released on parole due to the pandemic outbreak. The accused, Mohan Singh, 45, who is a resident of Maharajgunj of UP, had allegedly killed the victim, Megha Malhotra, 30, for money. After the crime, he fled to Basti district of UP from where he was arrested on Sunday. Police said the accused had planned to flee to Nepal from there. During initial interrogation, the accused told the police that he had painted the doors and windows of the woman’s house some time ago. During the stint, he had seen the woman keep some cash in the almirah and hatched a conspiracy to rob it. Police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal said, “The accused deliberately left the painting work incomplete. On May 10, when the woman called him again to finish the pending work, the accused, who had figured out the family’s daily schedule, waited for the victim’s husband, Karan Malhotra, to leave before he turned up at the spot.” “When he was convinced that the woman was alone, the accused tried to snatch the woman’s handbag. When she resisted, he grabbed her and strangulated her to death with the handkerchief that he was using as a facemask,” said the police commissioner. The victim’s two-year-old son was sleeping inside the house at the time. The police chief said the accused was not aware of the toddler’s presence else he may have murdered him too. Cops have recovered ₹5,000 cash, the woman’s handbag, her Aadhar card and debit card from the accused’s possession. He was produced before the court on Monday and sent to five-day police custody. Was released on parole due to pandemic Jamalpur station house officer (SHO), inspector Kulwant Singh Malhi said after finding out about the painter and his past criminal record, police started zeroing in on him and nabbed him from Uttar Pradesh. He added that the accused had earlier murdered a 39-year-old woman, Poonam, and her 17-year-old domestic help, Chhottu, in Shastri Nagar of Model Town on May 22, 2003. The accused was convicted in the double murder case and awarded life imprisonment. However, due to the pandemic, he was released on parole in June 2020. The accused then started living in a rented accommodation in Heaven City in Badal Colony of Mundian Kalan. As per the police, his landlord is also facing trial in criminal cases. The crime The victim, Megha Malhotra, was found murdered in her house at May 10. The neighbours were the first to learn of the incident after they were alerted by the victim’s toddler son’s cries. They immediately rang up the victim’s husband who rushed home and informed the police. The case has been registered under Section 302 (murder) with Section 303 (murder by life-convict) of the Indian Penal Code. Police will be attaching a copy of the judgment in the 2003 double murder case with the FIR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/double-murder-convict-out-on-parole-held-for-choking-another-woman-in-ludhiana-101621279337363.html
18-05-2021||Chandigarh||Oxygen quota for private hospitals hiked in Chandigarh||The quota of medical oxygen for private hospitals in Chandigarh has been increased, the UT health department has said.The daily quota of ‘D’ type cylinders at 10 private Covid-19 hospitals has been hiked from the existing 460 to 625. For mini Covid centres, the same has been increased from 5 to 50.A press statement issued by the department stated that a team of senior doctors from Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, and Government Multi-specialty Hospital (GMSH), Sector 16, visited private and government hospitals in the city to educate the staff about optimum utilisation of oxygen.A considerable amount of oxygen has been saved by ensuring that there is no leakage in the oxygen pipelines and outlets. The guidelines to maintain the saturation at 94 instead of 100 are followed and by ensuring that the flow of oxygen is correct, as per the requirement of the patients.“The above series of efforts have resulted in a smooth supply of oxygen in the city. The consumption by some hospitals has considerably reduced because of efforts of optimum utilisation and conservation by check of wastage. Considering availability of sufficient oxygen, the quota of oxygen cylinders fixed for private hospital has been increased,” it adds.The central government has fixed the daily quota of 20MT of medical oxygen for UT, Chandigarh from M/s INOX Barotiwala. This medical oxygen is being utilised for GMCH-32, GMSH-16 and Sector 48 Covid hospital. Private healthcare institutions are also being catered to from this quota of oxygen. Additionally, three oxygen generation plants have been commissioned recently in these hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/oxygen-quota-for-private-hospitals-hiked-in-chandigarh-101621279334884.html
18-05-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh admn caps rates for private ambulances||The Chandigarh administration has fixed the rates for private ambulances to prevent any overcharging from citizens for transporting patients within and outside the city.For example, for an ambulance with oxygen support, charges within the tricity have been fixed as ₹300 up to 20km and ₹12/km thereon.The order came into effect from May 17. Any breach of the order will invite action as per the law, which may include cancellation of the driving license of the ambulance driver and vehicle’s registration of certificate, impounding of the ambulance and imposition of penalty starting from minimum ₹50,000.Covid treatment charges re-notified Since there were complaints against private hospitals overcharging Covid-19 patients, the UT administrator VP Singh Badnore on Monday directed the health department to again notify the approved rates for Covid treatment. Consequently, the health department issued directions to private hospitals reiterating the stipulated rates in different categories of patients and facilities.Hospital rates fixed in Panckula The Panchkula administration has fixed the per-day treatment charges for Covid patients at private hospitals.They rates vary for hospitals with and without national accreditation (National Accreditation Board for Hospitals and Healthcare Providers).At non-NABH hospitals, isolation beds will cost ₹8,000 per day, ICU beds without ventilators ₹13,000 per day, and ICU beds with ventilators ₹15,000 per day.In case of JCI/NABH accredited hospitals, daily charge for isolation beds will be ₹10,000, ₹15,000 for ICU without ventilator care, ₹18,000 for ICU bed with ventilator.This package includes all treatments except remdesivir, tocilizumab and tests for Covid markers. The Covid helpline is 9817573779, 9817580716, 9817580549 and 9817588985.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-admn-caps-rates-for-private-ambulances-101621279275506.html
18-05-2021||Other||Azam out of ICU as condition ‘improves’||The condition of veteran Samajwadi Party leader Azam Khan is improving, according to medical bulletin of Medanta hospital in Lucknow.Khan, who was shifted to Medanta hospital from Sitapur Jail on May 9, has been shifted to general ward of the hospital from the intensive care unit of critical care ward. “He is still on some oxygen support, but his overall condition is much better.”Director of Medanta hospital in Lucknow Dr Rakesh Kapoor said, “ Azam Khan has been shifted out of ICU and he is feeling better. He is having normal food. A team of doctors is looking after his treatment.”Condition of Abdullah Khan, his son, is also improving, said Dr Kapoor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/azam-out-of-icu-as-condition-improves-101621279212036.html
18-05-2021||Chandigarh||Overcharging: Probe panel indicts Zirakpur hospital||The three-member committee probing overcharging and other allegations against New Lifeline Hospital, Zirakpur, has found the latter to be at fault and recommended strict action.An inquiry was marked against the private hospital after a deceased patient’s family alleged overcharging by the hospital and denial to give the body without clearance of bills. The patient, Paramjit Singh, was suffering from severe pneumonia due to Covid-19 when he was admitted to the hospital on April 26. He died on May 14.The probe panel comprising the local sub-divisional magistrate, deputy superintendent of police, and senior medical officer on Monday submitted its report to the deputy commissioner, recommending strict action and booking the hospital authorities under sections 51 (b) and 58 of the National Disaster Management Act and Section 3 of Epidemic Disease Act.Grave lapses in medical recordsIn its report, the committee stated that there was overcharging and grave lapses in medical record management by the hospital authorities.The inquiry report mentioned the rates charged by the hospital to be “exorbitantly high”. It also said that the hospital didn’t have National Accredited Board of Hospitals (NABH) certification.The rates they are charging for an ICU bed with ventilator are not as per the norms issued by the Punjab government, the report stated.The claims made by the hospital that the patient was being treated as per medical protocols also fell flat as the hospital could not produce any treatment record of the patient. In fact, the entire medical record management system was found to be faulty.The hospital authorities’ argument that they had given LAMA (left against medical advice) to the patient’s family to shift the patient to another hospital could not be established as the hospital failed to produce any documentary evidence in this context. Even the basic Covid care guidelines like wearing of PPE kits by the sanitation staff were not adhered to, the report mentioned.Moreover, the panel was not provided with the stock register and the payment receipt records were also not maintained. No payee PAN detail entries were made for any transaction above ₹1 lakh.Hospital denies negligenceThe panel report reads, “New Lifeline Hospital Zirakpur failed to show before the committee NABH certificate, stock register, patient’s summary/ treatment record, LAMA summary/ discharged certificate. In view of above, it is ascertained that there was medical negligence on part of the hospital, and the only treating doctor, Munish Goel, cannot be ruled out as no record pertaining to treatment has been put herewith.”Even the behaviour of Dr Munish Goel, the only treating doctor of the hospital is not as per his profession, as he has been found to be very rude and violent towards patients and their attendants, the report adds.However, the hospital’s managing director, Parveer Goyal said they cooperated fully with the committee members and provided all the documents they required. “We are again saying that allegations levelled against us are baseless,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/overcharging-probe-panel-indicts-zirakpur-hospital-101621279211620.html
18-05-2021||Other||UPPCL’s regulatory surcharge, changes in tariff slabs proposals meet stiff oppn||UP Power Corporation Ltd’s (UPPCL) proposal seeking levy of regulatory surcharge on consumers to make up for its deficit met a stiff opposition in the public hearing held here on Monday by UP Electricity Regulatory Commission (UPERC) to know various stakeholders’ views on the corporation’s annual revenue requirement (ARR) petition before announcing the tariff order for 2021-22. Consumers also opposed the proposal for changes in the existing tariff slabs arguing that doing so would automatically increase per unit rates of electricity for consumers under various categories. The UPERC may announce new tariff by the month end after holding two more hearings. No direct tariff increase is expected though the UPPCL has sought tariff revision through backdoor like one by proposing reintroduction of the regulatory surcharge system that the commission had abolished two years ago and changes in the tariff slabs.Raising the regulatory surcharge issue, UP Rajya Vidyut Upbhokta Parishad Avadhesh Kumar Verma said the proposal was illegal and demanded the UPERC to reject the same. He said the UPPCL had proposed regulatory surcharge because he had been demanding the commission to reduce the power tariff since the UPPCL had overcharged ₹19,537 crore since 2000 as also admitted by the UPERC.He said the power tariff for urban and rural consumers had gone up by 84% and 500% respectively during the last nine years. Verma also questioned the discoms’ proposal for change in tariff slabs on the ground that the UPERC rejected similar proposal last year. He claimed that discoms had projected their annual expenditures on a higher side to get tariff increase, though indirectly.Other consumers Sourabh Srivastav and Yogesh Agrawal suggested that cross-subsidy should not be increased and regulatory surcharge should not be levied. Dheeraj Khullar demanded a package for industries Bundelkhand. Manoj Kumar Gupta demanded lowering of rates of prepaid meters while representatives of Delhi Metro demanded reduction in power tariff for metro in UP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/uppcls-regulatory-surcharge-changes-in-tariff-slabs-proposals-meet-stiff-oppn-101621278970890.html
18-05-2021||Other||Ludhiana’s crematorium lockers filling up with unclaimed ashes of Covid victims||The unprecedented number of Covid deaths in May has not only stretched the district’s crematoriums, but also left their lockers filled with ashes of the victims, many never to be collected.As per government data, May accounts for 46% (345) of the 757 Covid deaths confirmed since January this year – an average of 21 deaths each day.There are 11 crematoriums across the district, with the one near Dholewal Military Complex dedicated exclusively for Covid victims.Carrying out cremations for almost 12 hours a day, the caretakers here say a body has been coming in every hour ever since the Covid deaths started peaking in the latter half of April.The gas crematorium is able to carry out up to 20 cremations a day, they said, but the ashes are often left uncollected by the family members.To make the area available for the next rites, caretakers store the abandoned remains in lockers, until the family members return to collect them, but the wait has been growing longer.Veena Goyal, 62, and Parmod Goyal, 66, of the same Shivaji Nagar family, who lost their lives to Covid on May 8 and 11, respectively, were given the final farewell at this crematorium, but their ashes remain stacked in one of the lockers a week later.A resident of Gurpal Nagar Street No 3, Dharmpal, 60, also suffered two tragedies in the past 10 days.First his 85-year-old mother, Gurpal Kaur, died of the virus on May 4, and then his wife, Rajesh Rani, 58, too lost her life to the contagion on May 13.For 10 days, the remains of his mother remained in the locker at the crematorium, as he tended to his wife at a hospital.“After I lost my mother, I felt, with my wife’s support I will pull through the grief and we will immerse the remains of my mother together. However, fate had some other plans,” said the distraught widower.As the ashes continued to pile up, they increased the number of lockers from 30 to 59, but amid the stream of Covid deaths in May, these, too, were quickly filling up, said Pankaj Sharma, a priest here.Panic, Covid fatigue to be blamed Ranjodh Singh, president of Ramgarhia Educational Trust, that manages the crematorium, attributed the delay in collecting ashes to multiple causes.“For one, in several cases, even the family members of the deceased are infected and have to remain in isolation. Others may get stuck in the rigmarole of arranging an NOC and Covid negative report to be available for the cremation, which may take a long time due to the rush at testing centres,” said Ranjodh, also a city-based industrialist.“One can hardly blame the bereaved families, who run from pillar to post arranging beds and treatment for their loved ones, only to see them losing the battle to the virus. Even before they can tide over the shock, they are pushed into rituals and formalities of cremation, leaving them completely fatigued,” he added.According to a volunteer, who is part of the team conducting last rites of unclaimed bodies at the crematorium, the number of people abandoning their deceased kin for fear of contracting the virus has also been increasing with the rise in deaths, which also left ashes piling up.Those not collected for weeks on end are eventually immersed in water bodies on behalf of the families. Recently, municipal corporation secretary Jasdev Singh Sekhon cremated some of such unclaimed bodies and helped immerse the ashes at Gurdwara Katana Sahib.“We remind relatives in attendance to collect the remains within four hours after the last rites to allow the other cremations to continue without a hitch. Yet some fail to comply, so the ashes are placed in the lockers,” said Sharma, who has also been spending the night at the crematorium, with the pyres sometimes burning into the evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhianas-crematorium-lockers-filling-up-with-unclaimed-ashes-of-covid-victims-101621278851425.html
18-05-2021||Other||Cops start patrolling Ganga to prevent dumping of bodies||Cops, Provincial Armed Constabulary (PAC) and National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) personnel on Monday began an intensive patrolling in UP districts located along the Ganga banks to ensure that there was no dumping of bodies into the river. A number of unidentified corpses were found floating in the river in Ghazipur and Ballia districts last week.Through public address system, cops also made announcements advising villagers against dumping the bodies into the Ganga. During patrolling, cops fished out seven bodies from the Ganga in Varanasi, 15 in Ghazipur and eight each in Chandauli and Ballia districts. They later cremated the bodies. The cops also held meetings with locals in villages located along the Ganga apprising them of the state government’s decision to provide ₹5,000 financial assistance each to poor people who are unable to carry out cremation of their near and dear ones. At Buxar ghat, Unnao, which was in news recently when several bodies were found buried at the riverbank, cops have set up a police outpost to make sure there is no dumping of bodies into the river. Prashant Kumar, additional director general of police, law and order, said 34 police teams had been pressed into service in Ghazipur district along the Ganga banks for round-the-clock patrolling in shifts to prevent disposal of bodies into the river. “Patrolling has also been intensified in those areas of Ballia and Ghazipur districts, including Zamania and Gahmar, which share their border with Bihar. The cops have also made arrangements of firewood for cremation of bodies at all ghats in Ghazipur district,” added Kumar. In Varanasi district, three teams of Jal Police are patrolling the Ganga in shifts and keeping a watch on ghats to prevent disposal of bodies into river. In Kanpur, Chandauli and Fatehpur districts also, intensive patrolling is being carried out to prevent dumping of bodies into the river.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cops-start-patrolling-ganga-to-prevent-dumping-of-bodies-101621278851896.html
18-05-2021||Other||Booze in Ludhiana central jail: ADGP, DIG visit for investigation||After videos of Ludhiana central jail inmates purportedly enjoying booze inside the barracks went viral on social media, additional director general of police (ADGP, prisons) PK Sinha and deputy inspector general (DIG, prisons) Surjit Singh Saini reached the prison to carry out a probe. They scanned the barracks and also questioned the jail officials. The ADGP said the video seems to have been recorded on May 2 or 3 and uploaded later by one of the inmates. He added that the cops are probing how the liquor had reached the jail premises. The statements of jail officials have also been recorded. The ADGP said that if the involvement of any jail official is found during investigation, stern action will be taken against the erring official. One of the inmates caught in the viral video is self-proclaimed gangster Manwinder Singh alias Nikka Jattana of Jattana village of Mansa. Jattana had been caught using a mobile phone in jail in June 2020 as well. PK Sinha maintained that Jattana has not been categorised as a gangster by Organised Crime Control Unit (OCCU). Sinha said Jattana and his accomplices had been brought on production warrant by the Division Number 3 police on June 12, 2020 in connection with a firing incident outside the house of Rishav alias Nannu, who faces an attempt to murder case. Both Jattana and Nannu were lodged in the Ludhiana central jail at the time. Jattana had taken responsibility for the attack through a Facebook post. According to the police, the accused had uploaded the post from jail. As per information, around a week ago, jail officials had recovered a mobile phone and hookah from the jail on May 9. Instead of investigating the matter, police lodged an FIR against an inmate Neeraj Kumar. Past controversy On April 20, Rajiv Arora, superintendent of Ludhiana central jail, was suspended for welcoming Punjabi singer Karan Aujla and giving him VVIP treatment. Karan Aujla along with his friends had visited Ludhiana central jail on April 8 and met jail superintendent Rajiv Arora in his office. The matter had reached the ADGP after it came to light that the security officials did not check if Aujla and his friends were carrying mobile phones. Arora was replaced by Balkar Singh, who was superintendent at Gurdaspur jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/booze-in-ludhiana-central-jail-adgp-dig-visit-for-investigation-101621278671328.html
18-05-2021||Chandigarh||ASIs’ killing: Gangster Jaipal, aides were living on rent at NRI’s house for six months||Wanted by police for gunning down ASIs Bhagwan Singh and Dalwinderjit Singh in New grain market of Jagraon, gangster Jaipal Bhullar and his three accomplices were living at a rented accommodation in Kothe Baggu village of Jagraon for the past six months, it is learnt. The house belongs to a Canada-based NRI who had rented out a portion of the house to Jaipal and his aides and the rest to some other tenants. The villagers alerted the police after coming across the posters of the assailants. The villagers identified Baljinder Singh alias Babbi as one of the tenants and informed the police. The villagers also told the police that they had seen Babbi and others many times moving in and out of the house. The accused had not come to the house since the killing of the cops. The police searched the house and found some belongings of the assailants. Senior superintendent of police (SSP, Ludhiana Rural) Charanjit Singh Sohal said the police came to know that the accused shifted to the house in November 2020 and the owner didn’t go for police verification of the tenants. Search operation launched Police have initiated a search operation to locate Jaipal and his aides at Alamgir village and surrounding areas after an input that they were hiding there. The police cordoned off the village on Monday and sealed all the roads connecting the village. The search operation was on when the report was Monday late night.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/asis-killing-gangster-jaipal-aides-were-living-on-rent-at-nri-s-house-for-six-months-101621278551937.html
18-05-2021||Chandigarh||Dhindsa, Brahmpura launch Shiromani Akali Dal (Sanyukt)||Rajya Sabha MP Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa and former Lok Sabha member Ranjit Singh Brahmpura, who separated themselves from the Badals-led Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) after the 2017 state polls, on Monday formed a new political party, Shiromani Akali Dal (Sanyukt). The two leaders jointly made the announcement at party’s office in Mohali. Dhindsa is president of the new outfit and Brahmpura is its patron. The new political outfit was formed after the dissolution of Brahmpura-led SAD (Taksali) and Dhindsa-led SAD (Democratic) on April 19, and according to a spokesperson of the party, the launch of the new oufit got delayed due to ongoing wave of the pandemic. “The organisation structure of the party will be announced soon,” said Dhindsa after a meeting with Brahmpura. Speaking to the media, Dhindsa asked SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal to clarify his party’s position on accepting donations worth ₹12 crore by Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) from Bollywood actor Amitabh Bachchan who “supported” genocide of Sikhs in 1984. Bachchan donated ₹2 crore in cash and ₹10 crore in the form of diagnostic machines. Dhindsa also sought details of donors from Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) and DSGMC. The party leadership also paid condolences to former Akal Takht jathedar Giani Joginder Singh Vedanti, former Akali Minister Inderjit Singh Zira, former journalist and MLA Jarnail Singh, Abay Singh Sandhu (nephew Shaheed Bhagat Singh), Sant Baba Chota Singh, former minister in the centre Raghunandan Lal Bhatia, along with other prominent persons who passed away recently. Former minister Sewa Singh Sekhwan, former MLA Justice (retd) Nirmal Singh, former finance minister Punjab Parminder Singh Dhindsa, former deputy speaker of Punjab Vidhan Sabha Bir Devinder Singh, former MP Bibi Paramjeet Kaur, AISSF president Karnail Singh Peermohammad, and former MLAs Jagdish Singh Garcha and Ranjit Singh Talwandi were also present on the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dhindsa-brahmpura-launch-shiromani-akali-dal-sanyukt-101621278432216.html
18-05-2021||Other||Cremation grounds along Ganga banks project moving at a snail’s pace||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s proposal to construct crematoriums in areas along the Ganga banks to check unorganised cremation of bodies announced last year is yet to be fully implemented. While launching the Ganga Yatra from Bijnor district on January 27, 2020, the CM had announced several development plans for areas of 27 districts along 1,358 km stretch of the river Ganga. Construction of cremation grounds was part of this plan.The urban development and panchayat raj departments were tasked with the job to complete this project. “In the past 15 months, only 20 percent of the work could be completed against the target,” said an official of the panchayat raj department. In the previous Samajwadi Party government too, a provision of ₹13.23 lakh per cremation ground in areas along the Ganga was made. Later, this was revised to ₹24 lakh per cremation ground. Manoj Kumar Singh, additional chief secretary, panchayat raj, has issued instructions to earmark cremation grounds for Covid and non-Covid bodies in villages. Singh has also assured that the state government will make all arrangements for cremation of bodies if family members of the dead are unable to do so due to financial constraints. In Awadh and eastern region of Uttar Pradesh, there is a tradition of giving ‘river burial’ (Jal Samadhi) to unmarried people in some communities. “Recovery of large number of bodies from the Ganga can also be attributed to this tradition. Earlier, this was a rarity. But amid the pandemic, large number of deaths have taken place,” said lawyer and social activist Kaushlendra Singh who is based in Nanpara in Bahraich district. “In this pandemic, many young people have died and their bodies have been given river burial as per the tradition,” he claimed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cremation-grounds-along-ganga-banks-project-moving-at-a-snail-s-pace-101621278190921.html
18-05-2021||Other||3 of family die of Covid-19 in 15 days at Palghar||Three members of a family died within a fortnight due to Covid-19 at Palghar. Seventy-nine-year-old Sarojben Gandhi was the first in the family to succumb to the virus on 1 May.According to her relative Bharat Gandhi, the senior citizen’s treatment was delayed as she did not get a bed in a hospital. “Her treatment was denied owing to lack of an oxygenated bed. She died in Ahmedabad at her sister’s house on May 1,” said Bharat.Four days later, Gandhi’s son Dharmesh, 50, an estate agent, who was admitted to a Kandivli hospital for Covid-19, died during treatment. On May 15, Dharmesh’s wife Varsha, who was also admitted to the same hospital, succumbed to the virus. The couple’s 21-year-old son Kalpen, a final-year architecture student of a Wada college, has also been tested positive for Covid-19 and is in home quarantine, said Gandhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/3-of-family-die-of-covid-19-in-15-days-at-palghar-101621278130849.html
18-05-2021||Mumbai||Class 10 exams cancelled: Bombay HC directs boards to reply to PIL on assessment methods||The Bombay high court (HC) on Monday directed the Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education (MSBSHSE), the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) and the Council for Indian School Certificate Examination (CISCE) board to respond to a public interest litigation (PIL), raising concerns over the assessment methodology to be adopted for students following the cancellation of Class 10 board exams by the state government in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. A division bench of justice SJ Kathawalla and justice SP Tavade, while hearing the PIL filed by a Pune-based retired professor, Dhananjay Kulkarni, was informed by advocate Dr Uday Warunjikar that the state government’s May 12 decision to not conduct Class 10 exams across all boards would have an adverse impact on students during admissions to Class 11 (first-year-junior college) and would create confusion and chaos.As the state government had also announced to devise a formula to assess the students but has not done so yet, Dr Warunjikar submitted that if it was left to the various boards to come up with marking patterns, there would be no uniformity in the evaluation, which could further affect the state board students at the time of admissions to Class 11.It was further submitted that while the state planned to conduct Class 12 exams for nearly 1.4 million students, not holding the exams for over 1.6 million Class 10 students was not justified. In light of these submissions, Dr Warunjikar stated that apart from seeking the quashing of the state government’s decision, the petition also sought directions to the Centre to come up with a uniform assessment policy for all boards with a proper formula for evaluation and curb any confusion among students.Advocate Sandesh Patil for the Central government informed the court that while the CBSE board was under its control, the ICSE board was an autonomous body and state was responsible for conducting SSC exams. Hence, it was not possible to take a common decision for evaluation. He further added that an evaluation system has already been issued for Class 10 students of CBSE board which could be sorted by other boards as well.Advocate Kiran Gandhi for the state submitted that the petition was ornate as the Maharashtra government had issued a resolution allowing the board to make changes in rules pertaining to the new evaluation and assessment system. As the state board was yet to formulate the rules and alternate marking method, the PIL should be disposed of. Gandhi added that the state board’s examination committee would come up with a formula which would be sent to the Maharashtra government for final approval.After hearing submissions, the court asked the Centre and the respondent boards to file affidavits in reply to the PIL and posted the hearing to Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/class-10-exams-cancelled-bombay-hc-directs-boards-to-reply-to-pil-on-assessment-methods-101621278073896.html
18-05-2021||Mumbai||As cases drop, number of covid tests halved in Mumbai||With a constant decrease in the number of daily Covid-19 cases reported in Mumbai for the past two weeks, the tests conducted in the city have also almost halved. While an average of 50,000 tests was conducted per day in Mumbai during mid-April, they have now come down to an average of 20,000-25,000 daily. Officials have attributed the decrease in the number to fewer people coming forward for a test. Experts believe that Mumbai needs to continue testing more people. They also believe that it is too early to tell if the second wave is declining, but the city must not assume that the threat of Covid-19 has passed. About 35%-40% of the tests conducted per day are rapid antigen tests, which on an average have a lower positivity rate than RT-PCR (reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction) tests. On Sunday, Mumbai conducted only 17,640 tests, the results of which were revealed on Monday. Of these, Mumbai reported 1,232 cases with a positivity rate of 6.9%. Mumbai also reported 48 deaths, with a case fatality rate of 3.8%. So far, Mumbai has conducted a total of 5,916,245 tests. The total number of positive cases in Mumbai is 689,062, with a cumulative positivity rate of 11.9%. The average positivity per day in Mumbai has now dropped to 6% to 8%, down from 20% and above seen in mid-April. Positivity rate is the number of positive Covid-19 cases reported as a percent of the total tests done. By mid-March, Mumbai had started conducting at least 50,000 tests a day and on some occasions up to 55,000 tests. Experts and authorities believe the second wave started around March 11. On April 4, Mumbai reported the highest number of Covid-19 cases in a single day – 11,204 – of 51,319 tests conducted, revealed BMC data. By April 20, the daily tests dropped to below 40,000. For the past five days, Mumbai has been conducting lower than 30,000 tests per day. However, on all these days Mumbai reported less than 2,000 cases, with a positivity rate of 6% to 8%. The steady decline in cases reported per day is in no way indicative of the larger picture that the second wave may soon pass, experts say.Dr Om Shrivastav, who is a part of Maharashtra government’s Covid task force, said, “We can’t look at Mumbai in isolation. The cases have come down, but cases in the rest of the state or country have not. So what happens when restrictions are lifted? To say that the second wave is declining, we should wait till the end of September at least and then take a relook at the figures and decide.” Experts also believe that the city needs to keep up high testing numbers despite the lower positivity rate. Dr Rahul Pandit, another member of the task force, said, “I have always said we need to keep testing in large numbers even if the number of cases per day begins to drop. We may record lower positivity rate during this time, but until we have a positivity rate below 5%, testing in high numbers is a better strategy.”“This can be done by contact tracing in large numbers during the first 24 hours. We can target areas which have reported a higher number of cases, for example certain wards or localities in Mumbai. Eventually, we will not report cases in clusters and will see isolated positive cases. Even though numbers show an improvement in the situation, we cannot consider this and become slack.” Dr Pandit added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/as-cases-drop-number-of-covid-tests-halved-in-mumbai-101621278073321.html
18-05-2021||Mumbai||IIT-Bombay designs prototype to reuse oxygen for patients on ventilators||A team of alumni and researchers at the Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay (IIT-B) have built a breathing device that can reduce wastage of oxygen when a Covid-19 patient is put on assisted breathing support such as ventilators. The prototype, called ‘reBreather’, is a semi-closed circular breathing system that will allow patients to breathe in unused exhaled oxygen. Covid-19 patients with severe breathing trouble are put on ventilators that can supply oxygen through a combination of nasal cannula and mask at a flow rate of up to 50 litres per minute. However, the lung can only absorb one litre of oxygen in a minute. The rest of the 49 litres (L) are breathed out or wasted. The researchers have used an existing technology of reusing exhaled oxygen— commonly used in diving and mountaineering systems — to cut down on this wastage. “At a time when oxygen is in short supply across the country, this mode of recirculating oxygen can help save lives,” said Santosh Noronha, assistant professor, department of chemical engineering, IIT-B, who is one of the 15 members of the team behind reBreather. The prototype has been designed by the staff, students and alumni affiliated with Tata Centre for Technology and Design, department of chemical engineering, and Nex Robotics—a start-up by alumni of the institute.According to the calculations by the team, this recirculation of oxygen can reduce the number of cylinders required by a critical patient from nine to almost one per day. This calculation is based on the assumption that a cylinder holds 7,800L of pure oxygen. “It is a good system on paper and we [doctors] are quite excited about it. However, it has to be put into use in a hospital set up before we can be sure of its working,” said city-based infectious diseases specialist Om Shrivastav, who was not a part of the project. A healthy human inhales 5L of air in a minute, of which one-fifth or a litre is oxygen. The human lungs can absorb only a quarter of this, which is 250 millilitres (ml). This may increase when the person is performing an activity or is ill. For every 250ml of oxygen absorbed, the lungs breath out 225ml of carbon dioxide. reBreather is a semi-closed circular breathing system with an inlet section which pumps in fresh oxygen from an oxygen cylinder or a centralised oxygen system in hospitals. The oxygen flow rate is set on the cylinder with a flow meter. An adjustable venturi valve is given at the input to allow for external air to be automatically pulled in based on the desired oxygen flow rate. A one port mask is attached to the patient. The exhaled air is fed to a container which has medical-grade soda lime. This soda lime selectively absorbs carbon dioxide from the exhaled output and allows the rest of the air to pass through to the inlet section of the system. The soda lime changes colour once it has exhausted its capability to absorb carbon dioxide and can be replaced. “Soda lime is the only consumable item in the system. We are working on modifying the designs further so that this can also be regenerated,” said Noronha. The technical details of the system have been made public under Creative Commons to grant access to healthcare workers across the country.“So far the system has been tested on healthy volunteers. We are planning to start a clinical trial soon. However, as approvals for clinical trials take time, we have made our system public so that if anybody wants to use it in the meantime, they can do so. It is an existing technology used in diving and mountaineering systems,” Noronha added.A single unit of reBreather cost the team around ₹10,000. “As most of it is plastic, the unit can be sanitised and reused. So it is mostly a one-time expense,” Noronha said.City-based pulmonologist Lancelot Pinto said, “When we breathe ambient air, we breathe air with a concentration of oxygen that’s about 21%. The air we exhale tends to have an oxygen concentration of 17%. This applies to healthy lungs. When lungs are affected [by infections or chronic lung diseases], they become inefficient at transferring oxygen, and we add supplemental oxygen so that the higher concentration of inspired air will create a steeper gradient for the oxygen to move across damaged alveolar membranes. However, this extraction is likely to be sub-optimal, resulting in a reasonably high concentration of oxygen in the exhaled air [higher than room air]. If an efficient method were created to reuse this oxygen, enrich it further to match the need while removing the carbon dioxide exhaled, it would be a very promising step in conserving the use of supplemental oxygen, which has become a precious resource.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/iitbombay-designs-prototype-to-reuse-oxygen-for-patients-on-ventilators-101621278070944.html
18-05-2021||Mumbai||3 Covid jumbo centres in Mumbai to remain shut for 10 days for repair works||The jumbo centres at Bandra-Kurla Complex (BKC), Dahisar and Mulund will remain closed for the next 10 days owing to the repair and maintenance work.City’s guardian minister Aaditya Thackeray, after meeting BMC officials on Monday, tweeted, “Our 3 jumbo covid care centres that have been vacated as precautions, will now be taken up for maintenance and repairs over the next 10 days.”The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) had shifted more than 500 patients over Saturday night and Sunday from the three jumbo centres as a precautionary measure following the cyclone alert for Monday. According to BMC officials, as the patients were already shifted to nearby hospitals, they will now look at the repair and maintenance work required to keep the jumbo centres stable for the upcoming monsoon and also the third wave. BMC officials said that there was no damage to any of its jumbo centres but it would like to undertake several maintenance works as a precautionary measure. Dr Deepa Shriyan, dean, Dahisar jumbo Covid centre, said, “We now have the time and chance as the patients have already been shifted and the daily caseload has gone down in the city. We will carry out necessary structural work and conduct a fire audit as a precaution. The jumbo centres were made for a temporary period but now that we know that this [pandemic situation] will continue for the next one year, we need to be better prepared and planned. We still have to face the monsoons and third wave during which these jumbo centres will play a crucial role in handling Covid-19 patients.”The three jumbo centres have more than 3,000 beds. Overall, the city has six jumbo centres with a total capacity of around 9,000 beds. Three more jumbo centres are coming up in the city amid fears of a third wave between July and September.Additional municipal commissioner P Velrasu said, “On Monday also, our focus was at the jumbo centres and we ensured that there was no waterlogging outside any of them. Now, as the three jumbo centres will remain closed for the next few days, we will ensure that the routine storm water works ahead of monsoon is completed on a timely basis.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/3-covid-jumbo-centres-in-mumbai-to-remain-shut-for-10-days-for-repair-works-101621278011614.html
18-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra 1st state to administer 20 million Covid-19 doses; Mumbai to resume drive today||Maharashtra became the first state in the country to cross the landmark of administering 20 million vaccine doses on Monday, since the drive commenced on January 16. Additional chief secretary (health department) Pradeep Vyas has confirmed the development.Amid the depleting vaccine stock, the state administered 99,323 doses till 9pm on Monday, pushing the tally to 20,089,580. The state has so far fully vaccinated 4,256,962 beneficiaries.Mumbai, Pune and Thane are the leading districts that have administered the highest number of doses. Mumbai has administered 2,892,457 so far, of which 731,904 are second doses, while Pune district has given 2,617,059 doses of vaccines, of which 544,902 are second shots. In Thane district, 347,710 beneficiaries are fully vaccinated, followed by 261,138 in Nagpur, 216,998 at Kolhapur and 199,985 beneficiaries in Nashik district.According to senior health department officials, Maharashtra is expecting fresh stock of doses from the Centre. “We are expecting the stock by tomorrow [Tuesday],” said state immunisation officer DN Patil, adding that the state, however, does not know how many doses it will receive.Health department officials said that the current stock would last only for about a day or two. “We have about 300,000 Covishield doses and around 80,000 Covaxin vaccines distributed across the state. Due to the cyclone alert, the vaccination drive was not in full swing in many coastal districts, including Mumbai. The current stock will last us for about a day or two,” a senior official said.Patil added that with the increase in the interval between the two doses of Covishield, the pressure on the administration has reduced. “However, our focus is now to vaccinate more people as and when we receive the stock,” he said. On Monday, the Mumbai civic body had suspended vaccinations in view of predictions of heavy rainfall and gusty winds due to cyclone Tauktae. Mumbai will restart its vaccination drive on Tuesday. However, vaccinations will resume only at selected centres, a list of which will be published by the civic body. Walk-in registrations for senior citizens getting their first dose will be permitted, however they will only be administered Covishield vaccine. Citizens aged above 45 who are getting their second dose of Covaxin as well as for the differently abled citizens can also walk into their nearest vaccination centre, get registered on the spot and get vaccinated, on Tuesday and Wednesday. On Thursday, Friday and Saturday this week, only those who have registered on the CoWIN app can get their vaccine shots. “Vaccination to resume at selected centres on 18 & 19 May’21. The list of CVCs for tomorrow shall be uploaded later tonight. Walk-in for 60+ taking their 1st dose of Covishield while 84 days to be completed after 1st dose of Covishield’s second (sic),” the civic body tweeted on Monday evening. There are currently 260 vaccination centres across the city, of which 166 are operated by the civic body, 74 are private and 20 are operated by the state or central governments.Meanwhile, the senior health department official said that the government could take a call on resumption of the vaccination of citizens in the 18-44 age group later this week. “Serum [Institute of India] had assured state of giving 1.5 crore [Covishield] vaccines every month after May 20. If that is honoured, then the government will restart it by this month end or in June,” he said.(Inputs from Eeshanpriya MS)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-1st-state-to-administer-20-million-covid-19-doses-mumbai-to-resume-drive-today-101621278010921.html
18-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra issues guidelines for handling rising mucormycosis cases||Taking cognisance of the rise in cases of mucormycosis, also known as black fungus, among recovered Covid-19 patients, the Maharashtra government on Monday issued detailed guidelines over its symptom, medical investigation, prevention and treatment protocol. The state has asked for strict glycemic control during management of Covid-19 patients which means blood sugar levels must be continuously controlled for all patients while systemic steroids are to be used only in patients with hypoxemia.The guidelines have been issued to reduce morbidity and fatality among mucormycosis patients as the state believes its occurrence is triggered by the use of high doses of steroids to treat Covid-19 and in uncontrolled diabetes cases.The guidelines include strict infection control measures including cleaning and replacement of humidifiers. It states that sterile normal saline should be used in the humidifier bottle and changed daily and masks should be disinfected daily. “Local public health laboratories should be asked to take swabs of humidifiers, masks, tubing and common touch areas for culture of mucormycosis,” stated the order issued by Ramaswami N, commissioner, health services and mission director, National Health Mission (NHM), Maharashtra.Doctors have been asked not to miss warning signs and symptoms and also not to consider all cases of blocked nose as cases of bacterial sinusitis, especially in the context of immunosuppression and Covid-19 patients on immunomodulators, it further said.It also described signs and symptoms of mucormycosis comprising pain and redness around eyes and nose, fever (usually mild), epistaxis (bleeding from the nose), headache, cough, shortness of breath, blood vomiting and altered mental status.“During discharge of the patients, advice about early symptoms or signs of mucormycosis such as facial pain, blockage, excessive discharge, loosening of teeth, chest pain and respiratory insufficiency,” it added.Maharashtra has over 400 cases of mucormycosis with around eight to 10 fresh cases daily. “We are getting a few cases of black fungus, around 8 to 10 cases, on a daily basis. On Sunday, around 14 cases were reported across the state,” said Dr Tatyarao Lahane, director, Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-issues-guidelines-for-handling-rising-mucormycosis-cases-101621277952776.html
18-05-2021||Mumbai||Man dies as tree falls on autorickshaw in Ulhasnagar; TMC cancels vaccination drive||One person died after a tree fell down on an autorickshaw at Ulhasnagar on Monday evening due to the heavy winds caused by Cyclone Tauktae. Two passengers, who were in the auto at the time, were taken to the hospital. In another case, a 40-year-old man was stuck in his car at Naupada after a tree fell on top of it. He was injured and was taken to a nearby hospital after the Regional Disaster Management Cell (RDMC) rescued him.Santosh Kadam, chief of RDMC, Thane, said, “Within Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) limits, there were 59 incidents of tree fall and 20 incidents of tree branches falling. Moreover, a portion of a building in Lokmanya Nagar collapsed and the slab plaster of a society in Mumbra also fell down. There were no casualties in both the incidents. There are three cases of waterlogging at Nitin Signal, Court Naka and Rabodi areas.”“There have been 123 incidents of disruptions all around the city on Monday. There was an unfortunate death of a 50-year-old man after a tree fell down on the autorickshaw he was travelling in with a co-passenger. Both were taken to the hospital immediately, but one of them succumbed,” said Dr Yuvraj Bhadane, spokesperson, Ulhasnagar Municipal Corporation.Meanwhile, a tree fell down on an overhead wire along the railway tracks near Dombivli station in the afternoon, leading to a tree top catching fire. There were no casualties and the situation was brought under control within a few minutes. However, it affected train services for a few hours. Incessant rains in Thane, Kalyan and Dombivli affected the vaccination drive as well.TMC had scheduled vaccination at 20 centres on Monday but had to cancel the drive due to rains. The decision to this effect was announced around 9am. Some citizens who visited the centre had to return. “Although we stay near the vaccination centre, it was difficult to get a slot for the second dose due to the shortage of vaccines. On Monday, owing to the cyclone alert there were very few crowd outside these centres, so we decided to go ahead with the vaccination and were waiting outside the centre for half an hour when they announced there will not be any vaccination,” said Abhijit DEuskar, 72, resident of Balkum.Sandeep Malvi, deputy commissioner of TMC, said, “Owing to the current situation, we have called off the vaccination drive for Tuesday within TMC limits.” Meanwhile, the Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation managed to complete the vaccination drive on Monday with only three centres functioning for the day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/man-dies-as-tree-falls-on-autorickshaw-in-ulhasnagar-tmc-cancels-vaccination-drive-101621277952035.html
18-05-2021||Mumbai||150 locals rescued, mall roof falls on Virar overhead wire||Around 150 members of 35 families in Arnala were rescued by the local administration and shifted to St Peter’s School, Arnala in Virar on Monday due to Cyclone Tauktae, said Vasai tehsildar Ujwala Bhagat. Meanwhile, a trawler from Pali village in Bhayander (West) with six khalasis was stuck in the Arabian Sea since Saturday, said fishermen leader Bernard D’mello, The fishermen on the trawler have taken shelter on a non-operational rig of the Oil and Natural Gas Company near Bombay High and will be rescued after the intensity of the cyclonic storm reduces, said D’mello. The trawler was returning to shore after the Coast Guard issued a warning, said D’mello. The Coast Guard and the Navy along with local fishermen have launched a search for the trawler.In a review meeting with Thane guardian minister Eknath Shinde, Palghar and Thane district officials said the fishermen are safe and will be brought to Uttan coast after storm fades off.Meanwhile, an overhead galvanised iron sheet located at a mall opposite Virar station landed on the overhead wire between Platforms 2 and 3 around 4pm owing to the gusty winds. Western Railway (WR) staffers removed the sheet by 4.30pm, Sumit Thakur, chief public relations officer, WR.Cyclone Tauktae also led to heavy rainfall with Dahanu taluka receiving around 32mm rain while Palghar received 29mm and Vasai 10mm. As per the district information office data, around 13 houses were destroyed, 19 electric poles and a transformer got uprooted and four trees were uprooted. There were no casualties. The revenue department will compensate for the damaged and destroyed houses, said an official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/150-locals-rescued-mall-roof-falls-on-virar-overhead-wire-101621277950834.html
18-05-2021||Mumbai||Four dead, six injured in separate accidents in Raigad||Four people including two women died and six others were injured in different accidents caused by Cyclone Tauktae in Raigad district on Monday. Around 5,253 houses were damaged by the storm. As a precautionary measure, the district administration had evacuated around 8,383 people staying in over 2,900 kuchha house across the district on Sunday.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) had earlier issued a ‘red alert’ for the district which has a population of around 2.63 million. Areas such as Alibag, Panvel, Pen among others received heavy rainfall on Monday.According to IMD forecast, there will be light and moderate rainfall in most places of the district on Tuesday, while a handful of areas will see very heavy and extremely heavy rainfall. “An 80-year-old man from Pen, Rama Katkari, died after a branch of a tree fell on him in the afternoon. His wife also suffered injuries. Three others who died in similar accidents are Narayn Sable, 45; Sunandabai Gharat, 55; and Neeta Bhalchandra Naik, 50. While Sable died at Dhatav MIDC, Gharat and Naik died at Uran,” said an official.Raigad district collector Nidhi Chaudhary said, “A total of 5,244 houses were damaged partially and nine houses were damaged fully due to heavy rain and wind. However, the residents did not suffer as we had evacuated them beforehand.”“The wind had, however, no impact on the oxygen-producing units in the district. There was no disruption in power supply at Linde Taloja, INOX Mangao and JSW Dolvi, and the production of oxygen continued despite light rainfall,” she said. These three plants supply around 650 MT of oxygen daily for medical use in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/four-dead-six-injured-in-separate-accidents-in-raigad-101621277892688.html
18-05-2021||Mumbai||Biker dies as electric pole falls on him; 122 tree falling cases in Navi Mumbai||A 35-year-old biker died after an electric pole fell on him on Palm Beach road at Sanpada late on Sunday evening. The accident took place due to the strong winds caused by Cyclone Tauktae, the police said.According to the police, Vishal Naralkar, a resident of Airoli, worked as a security guard at Seawoods and he was on his way home on his bike around 9.30pm when the incident took place. His manager, Sunil Rathod, who also stayed in the same area, was riding pillion. After crossing Moraj circle, as they were about to enter the bridge near Vashi station, the electric pole fell down on their bike.Nilesh Rajput, assistant inspector from Sanpada police station, said, “The pole had fallen on Naralkar’s hands and there was no major injury on his body. However, he lost his consciousness just after the accident and was rushed to the civic hospital. He was declared dead after sometime.”“Doctors suspect he got scared after the accident and died of heart attack. We will get a clear picture once we receive the post-mortem report. Rathod suffered minor injuries and was discharged from the hospital after an hour,” he said. Navi Mumbai saw a total of 122 tree falling incidents on Sunday and Monday. Even as no one suffered injuries in these accidents, four vehicles including two cars were damaged.“A glass pane of the Cidco Exhibition Centre shattered due to the strong wind and one of their employees suffered minor injuries,” said an official from the disaster management cell.“Three houses were partially damaged, and four short-circuit cases were also reported till evening. A wall of a housing society collapsed at Sector 15, Kopar Khairane. But no one suffered injuries in these accidents,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/biker-dies-as-electric-pole-falls-on-him-122-tree-falling-cases-in-navi-mumbai-101621277892216.html
18-05-2021||Mumbai||Cyclone effect: Mumbai airport shut for 11 hours, sees 56 cancellations||Cyclone Tauktae forced Mumbai’s Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA) to stop flight operations for 11 hours on Monday. The city airport, which operated flights in the morning, saw seven flight diversions due to gusty winds. Airport sources said, it was the first time the airport remained completely closed for 11 hours due to bad weather. CSMIA spokesperson said, “With the announcement of the cyclone alert, CSMIA had closed all flight operations with effect from 11am to 10pm on May 17, 2021. The airport has so far witnessed seven diversions. In the wake of the alert, a few airlines have decided to cancel services to Mumbai. CSMIA has registered cancellations of 34 arrivals and 22 departures.” As status of flights kept changing, CSMIA advised passengers to connect with the airlines before leaving their homes. Among the diversions, a SpiceJet flight was diverted to Surat, one IndiGo flight returned to its origin airport at Lucknow and an IndiGo flight was diverted to Hyderabad, airport officials said. According to airport sources, 38 flights were operated to/from CSMIA before it shut operations. A pilot, who took off from CSMIA on Monday, said, “The weather was not conducive for flight operations even in the morning. However, flights were taking off around scheduled time due to lesser air traffic.”A senior AAI official said, “Gusty winds are dangerous for aircraft arrivals. Hence it is better to pause flight operations till weather gets better.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cyclone-effect-mumbai-airport-shut-for-11-hours-sees-56-cancellations-101621277891511.html
18-05-2021||Mumbai||Cyclone Tauktae: Electricity, water supply affected in some parts of Thane||Shahad, Murbad, Ulhasnagar, Ambernath and Badlapur areas witnessed power cuts for more than 30 hours due to the gusty winds and rainfall caused by Cyclone Tauktae. Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) officials said the overhead wires in these areas make it difficult to provide continuous power supply during bad weather. Water supply has also been affected in many areas of Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) due to lack of power supply. MSEDCL officials said they received more than 150 calls regarding fallen electricity poles and trees falling on electric wires in Ambernath, Badlapur and Murbad areas. A team of electricity board officials have been working round the clock from Sunday evening to Monday night to resolve the issues. Anil Kamble, public relation officer of MSEDCL, said, “We have been getting so many calls about fallen electric wires and poles due to the heavy wind. Wind pressure is so high that even if we repair the wire and pole, they break again within a few hours. There is tremendous pressure on the team owing to the current situation and we are working round the clock. The disaster management team has small manpower therefore it is taking time to remove fallen trees from wires and poles.” Several houses were also damaged. Sunil Burman, a resident of Ambernath (East), said, “We do not have electricity from Sunday evening and do not even have water also. All of us have called water tanker for a day. Every year Badlapur, Ambernath and Murbad areas face electricity issues as most of electric poles or wires are affected.” An MSEDCL official said, “Electric wires in these areas are all overhead wires. Taking the cables underground is a huge process, for which we are not getting funds. We have been requesting the authorities to sanction the same, but the process has been delayed further due to the pandemic.” As electricity supply stopped in Shahad, water supply was affected within the jurisdiction of the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC). A senior official from TMC’s water department said, “Due to electricity supply issues in stem water distribution facility, we could not supply water for some hours on Monday. Although it was restored within a few hours, an overall impact in the flow of the water will be noticed for the next 24 hours.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cyclone-tauktae-electricity-water-supply-affected-in-some-parts-of-thane-101621277832031.html
18-05-2021||Mumbai||IMD’s weather radar goes defunct when needed most, again||The city’s doppler weather radar (DWR) operated by the India Meteorological Department (IMD) in Colaba became defunct late on Sunday, drawing the ire of several independent meteorologists tracking the path of Cyclone Tauktae which passed by Maharashtra coast on Monday.This is not the first time that the instrument has become dysfunctional at a crucial moment. On December 4, 2017, when Cyclone Ockhi brushed past the Mumbai coast, the radar was not functional. The radar was also not functional on multiple days during extreme rainfall events in June and July 2019, and also on June 1, 2020, about 48 hours before Cyclone Nisarga made landfall in Maharashtra. “There are five doppler radars on the west coast, two in Kerala, one in Goa, one in Mumbai and another in Bhuj, Gujarat. While they no longer play as crucial a role in modelling paths of cyclones, DWR’s are important instruments that allow us to map these systems in real time. They are extremely valuable for planning disaster management responses. Unlike the east coast, where cyclones are extremely common, we do not have a very extensive network along the west coast. We need to actively invest in them,” said Akshay Deoras, an independent meteorologist and PhD student at the University of Reading, England.IMD officials confirmed that DWR had stopped working on Sunday evening, but did not cite reasons for the same. “The doppler radar has run into a technical snag. Technicians are looking into the matter. We cannot say by when it will be up and running again,” said a scientist who did not wish to be identified.Mumbai’s only DWR was installed in 2010 for weather surveillance up to 400kms from the coastline and was first recommended soon after the floods of July 26, 2005. While satellite pictures can be used in lieu of radar images, experts said, the latter is limited in value. “If an x-ray is a satellite image, then a doppler radar is a CT scan. The quality and range of data it gives is simply much better, allowing us to make better predictions about where the cyclone’s spiral banks will be located, where they will bring more rain,” said Deoras.“With radar service not available, it becomes extremely difficult to track rain bands,” said Vineet Kumar, a scientist who researches cyclones in the north Indian Ocean for Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology, Pune.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/imds-weather-radar-goes-defunct-when-needed-most-again-101621277830848.html
18-05-2021||Mumbai||Light rains to continue as Cyclone Tauktae recedes from Maharashtra coast||Moderate rains and strong winds, which began on Monday under the influence of Cyclone Tauktae, are likely to continue on Tuesday as well but with significantly less intensity, according to official forecasts.After touching a record-breaking speed of 114kmph (kilometre per hour) at 2pm on Monday, wind velocity had slowed down to about 78kmph at 8pm on Monday, and is likely to hover between 40 to 50kmph on Tuesday with heavy rainfall at isolated locations in Mumbai, Thane and Palghar districts.“It is the north Konkan region which will continue to see some precipitation while parts of the coast are likely to have seen gale winds touching around 90kmph during the night, but the daytime will see consistent improvement in the situation. In Mumbai, the situation was considerably calmer by 10pm on Monday,” said a meteorologist with India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) regional forecasting centre in Mumbai.Not only did Mumbai see record levels of rainfall — 194mm in 12 hours, leading to its wettest day in May yet, it also recorded its lowest daytime temperature for May in at least a decade on Monday at 26.9 degrees Celsius, which was seven degrees below normal.This is down sharply from 37.4 degrees Celsius recorded on Saturday, which marked Mumbai’s hottest May day in at least a decade, due to a dense cloud cover which acted as a heat trap and pushed up the temperature.As per the IMD’s seven-day forecast for Mumbai, the maximum temperature on Monday is expected to rise to about 28 degrees Celsius and will climb sharply during the week as the cyclone moves away, touching 35 degrees Celsius by next weekend.“Generally cloudy skies with moderate to light rains and drizzles” are expected to prevail till May 19, after which skies will become clearer and sunnier.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/light-rains-to-continue-as-cyclone-tauktae-recedes-from-maharashtra-coast-101621277771481.html
18-05-2021||Mumbai||Cyclone Tauktae: 20 local trains cancelled, 50 delayed||Tree falls and falling of loose banners owing to gusty winds and heavy showers from cyclone Tauktae led to cancellation of 20 local trains and delay in 50 on Monday. Mumbai Metro train services were functional, however, monorail services were suspended as a precautionary measure. The BrihanMumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) also diverted its buses on 72 routes owing to waterlogging on 19 roads, including Hindmata Cinema, Dadar; SV Road; National College, Bandra, Grant Road station road; Gandhi market, Sion; Sheetal Cinema, Kurla West and Navy Nagar, Malad West. On the Western Railway, a tree fall was reported on the railway tracks between Churchgate and Marine Lines, disrupting the services. The services were restored at 8.10pm on Monday. On the Central Railway, a tree branch fell on a local train between Ghatkopar and Vikhroli railway stations on Monday morning. Slow local train services were shifted on the fast line. A loose banner fell on the overhead wires near Chunabhatti and GTB Nagar railway stations on the harbour line. Local train services were also suspended between Wadala and Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT) after waterlogging was reported at Masjid Bunder railway station. The services were resumed after two hours. Train services resumed at 2.40pm on Monday, but were suspended again after branches of a tree fell on railway tracks between Sewri and Cotton Green railway stations. “Due to gusty winds, tree branches fell on the overhead equipment on the sixth line near Dombivli station. Branches were removed immediately in one hour. No repercussions were felt on mail express or suburban local trains.” said Shivaji Sutar, chief public relation officer, Central Railway. A plastic fibre sheet came on the railway tracks near Dahisar railway station on the Western Railway. Train services were halted and the fibre sheet was removed. At Umroli railway station, due to heavy wind, the station cover shed fell on the overhead wire at 6.05 pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cyclone-tauktae-20-local-trains-cancelled-50-delayed-101621277770925.html
18-05-2021||Mumbai||Cyclone Tauktae: 8 die; 3K houses damaged||At least eight people died, more than 3,000 houses were damaged, while electricity supply and internet connection to hundreds of villages were disrupted as cyclonic storm Tauktae wreaked havoc in parts of Maharashtra’s coastal districts such as Ratnagiri, Raigad, Sindhudurg, Palghar, Thane and Mumbai on Monday. More than 12,500 residents in coastal areas of three districts – Raigad (2,299), Ratnagiri (4,563), Sindhudurg (144) – were shifted to safer places, although they started to return as the cyclone started to recede on Monday evening. Among the six deaths caused due to various incidents related to the cyclone, four are from Raigad, two from Thane and two from Sindhudurg. Nine people from four districts have sustained injuries. Transport to a few villages in Raigad and Ratnagiri was cut-off because of the blockades created by tree falls. Ratnagiri and Raigad districts were badly hit among the coastal districts, with its tehsils like Dapoli, Mandangad, Guhagar, Lanja seeing the most damages. About 1,028 houses and structures, including government offices and schools, received severe damages. Many orchards were damaged in Ratnagiri, known for its alphonso mangoes. A fisherman in Devgad in Sindhudurg lost his life trapped under the vessel anchor during his attempt to save fellow fishermen on a boat on Sunday evening. In another incident, three fishermen are missing from two boats that capsized in Devgad. Besides Devgad, tehsils like Vengurle, Malvan in Sindhudurg witnessed damage to their structures. Hundreds of electricity poles and transformers were damaged owing to the velocity of the wind since Sunday evening, leading to power outage. It also led to disconnection of internet services. Hundreds of villages in Ratnagiri and a few in Raigad saw disruption of mobile and internet services. In Ratnagiri, 357,409 families from760 villages were in the dark till 3pm on Monday. “More than 15 transformers and over 190 electricity poles were damaged across the district. Power supply companies restored the electricity on a war footing in most of the villages, although some villages are still in the dark,” said Datta Bhadakwad, resident deputy collector, Ratnagiri. In Raigad, of the 55 Covid care centres in rural parts, 26 operated on direct supply and 29 on generator back-up after the power outage on Monday morning. In Panvel Municipal Corporation, 44 of the 45 Covid facilities were given direct supply, while one was operational on generator back-up. A total of 1,784 houses were damaged in the district. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said the situation was expected to normalise by late Monday evening. “The CM spoke to senior officials from the India Meteorological Department (IMD) and he was apprised about the weather conditions in coastal parts of the state. According to the information given to him, the cyclone was 180km away from Mumbai coast at 5pm and the wind velocity was on the decline, and expected to reach at 70-80 km per hour in few hours. By Monday night, the situation is expected to normalise in Maharashtra,” statement issued by the CMO stated. Higher and technical education minister and guardian minister of Sindhudurg Uday Samant said he has demanded a special package, keeping the National Disaster Relief Fund (NDRF) norms aside. “I have spoken to Thackeray and deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar. The state had given special package for losses sustained in Cyclone Nisarg last year. Mango growers have sustained huge losses in the middle of alphonso season,” he said. The administrations of these districts have been directed to begin spot assessment of the losses. The officials from the relief and rehabilitation department said the exact quantum of the damage will be known only once the assessments are completed over next three-four days. By contrast, Nisarga, which made landfall last June near Diveagar and Shrivardhan — south of the coastal resort town of Alibag — in Raigad district was a severe cyclonic storm which left at least six dead, 16 injured and nearly 13000 hectares of cropland damaged in northern parts of the state as well as its coastal districts. It also left behind a trail of destruction in Raigad district with power cables snapped, trees and electric poles uprooted, thatched, kutcha and pucca houses destroyed or partially damaged and roads blocked prompting the state to announce a relief package of nearly ₹400 crore to the district alone. Raigad’s guardian minister and minister of state Aditi Tatkare said total restoration of electricity and internet services will take a couple of more days. “All roads connecting to villages have been cleared, but the restoration of electricity may take some time,” she said. According to the statement issued by the energy department, 1,816,744 consumers were affected with disconnection of power supply in seven districts, of which 51% were restored. A total of 210 Covid-19 facilities or vaccination centres were affected, of which power supply has been restored in 82% or 173 units. The power supply of all four oxygen generating plants, which were affected, has been restored. A total of 765 of the 1,124 telecommunication towers affected in cyclone have been restored.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cyclone-tauktae-8-die-3k-houses-damaged-101621277710890.html
18-05-2021||Mumbai||City feels Tauktae’s fury||Cyclone Tauktae on Monday passed Mumbai’s coastline, followed by heavy rain and gusty wind at speed of up to 114kmph in several areas, especially south Mumbai and suburbs, which saw heavy rainfall waterlogging. Two people are feared to have drowned in boat mishaps off Mahim and Madh. Owing to high wind speeds through the day, a total of 479 tree falls were reported in the city. In the city, 26 incidents of wall collapses were reported, in which eight people were injured in three separate incidents. This was followed by 17 incidents of short circuit. However, no injuries were reported due to the same. Of the eight injured, four were injured due to a wall collapsing on four family members during repair in their house, followed by three injured in Borivli (East) as part of a crane fell on their house. All three were discharged from the hospital post treatment. Further, another incident of slab collapse was reported in Andheri where a woman was injured due to the same. According to BMC, the woman’s condition is stable, and her treatment is ongoing at a private hospital.On Monday, in two separate incidents at Mahim and Madh, 10 people were stuck inside a boat, of which two people are feared to have drowned, according to BMC’s disaster management cell. In the case of Madh, five people were stuck in a boat due to rough sea, of which four were rescued, however, one is feared to have drowned. In the case of the incident at Mahim, five people were stuck in a boat of which two people came back to Madh jetty by swimming, one is feared drowned and two are still stuck inside the boat for which rescue operations are ongoing by the coastal police.Further, low lying areas like Hindmata, Parel, Dadar reported water logging on Monday followed by Peddar Road, Mahalaxmi, Mumbai Central, Oval Maidan, Warden Road, Colaba also reported water logging on Monday. According to BMC officials, south Mumbai was the most hit as the cyclone went from south to north further towards Gujarat.In central Mumbai, several areas like Hindmata, King Circle, Dadar TT followed by several areas in Worli including Worli Koliwada also reported water logging on Monday. In South Mumbai and central Mumbai, 13 locations reported waterlogging, according to the BMC, followed by seven locations reporting waterlogging in the suburbs.In case of suburbs, Milan subway, Santacruz; Andheri subway; Malad subway; Vakola, Malwani, Borivli, Dahisar also reported waterlogging due to heavy rainfall. Several areas in eastern suburbs, including Kurla, Ghatkopar, Chembur also reported waterlogging on Monday. According to BMC officials, waterlogging was reported more in south and central Mumbai, considering it received more rainfall at isolated locations. The intensity of cyclone and its after effects was felt more in south Mumbai. On Monday, the highest wind speed of 114 kmph was reported around 2pm near the Afghan Church area in Colaba. In areas like Worli, Malabar Hill along with Grant Road, Mumbai central, overall more than 400mm rain was recorded. In the city, on an average, 105 mm of rain was reported on Monday between 8am and 5pm, followed by 61mm in eastern suburbs and 114mm in western suburbs.Activist Nikhil Desai, from Dadar said, “Like every year even this year we had water logging in King Circle and Hindmata area. Though the rainfall was not expected this early, but this shows that we are not prepared for the monsoon like every year. I do not know how much underground rainwater storage tank work is completed, but it is the truth that minutes of rainfall resulted in Hindmata and King Cricle’s Gandhi Market got flooded.” In the city, out of the total 479 tree fall reported, 245 were in western suburbs, 156 in south Mumbai and 78 in eastern suburbs. During the day, Mumbai Mayor Kishori Pednekar took stock of the situation by visiting several locations followed by guardian minister Aaditya Thackeray taking a meeting with the BMC officials to plan the way ahead.Following the meeting, Thackeray posted on Twitter: “We are doing everything we can to keep you safe. The BMC has begun to clear out fallen trees with every breather we get in the pattern of strong winds and heavy rain. We are working to ensure normalcy at the earliest. Today’s cyclone hit wind speeds of 114kmph, highest ever for Mumbai in any recent records. This is a climatic pattern that we have started studying, along with its maximum impact points, water logging areas and types of trees that are damaged. Our 3 jumbo covid care centres that have been vacated as precautions, will now be taken up for maintenance and repairs over the next 10 days.”Following the shifting of over 500 Covid-19 patients from three jumbo centres at BKC, Dahisar and Mulund, the BMC on Monday said these centres will now remain shut for maintenance. According to BMC officials, they will undertake overall fire and structural audit of the centres to ensure to be prepared for the upcoming monsoon season to align with the anticipated third wave between July and September. However, no citizens from the coastal areas such as Worli, Bandra, Versova and Gorai were shifted owing to the cyclone. According to BMC officials, they had undertaken preparations for shifting of the citizens but there was no such requirement for the same. Hence, we did not shift them.Meanwhile, on Monday, the BMC’s disaster management cell received 4,848 calls for civic emergency owing to the heavy rainfall and high wind speed.Meanwhile, the opposition Congress and the Samajwadi Party (SP), slammed the BMC over its monsoon preparedness.Ravi Raja, Congress corporator and leader of opposition in the BMC, said, “Everything got exposed on Monday as there were waterlogging and tree falls across the city. The drainages across the city were cleaned and their silt was kept outside, but after today’s rainfall all the silt went inside the drains again.”SP corporator Rais Shaikh said, “Tauktae cyclone put Mumbai on high alert on Monday and every year crores of rupees are spent for pre-monsoon work, yet we experience overflowing sewage lines. I have requested BMC commissioner to inquire into the same and take action against the officers who have delayed pre-monsoon work.”P Velrasu, additional municipal commissioner, BMC, said, “What happened on Monday was bound to happen considering the intensity of the rain was too much in a span of four hours when city received maximum rainfall. Between 10am and 2pm on Monday in several areas more than 120mm rain was recorded, and if such intensity of rainfall is received waterlogging may be reported...We had installed water-sucking pumps at 15 locations in the city and five pumping stations were activated. In case of Hindmata, the work for rainwater tunnel work is ongoing and is expected to be completed by June 10, due to which we reported water logging there.”Heavy rain led to power cuts in various parts. The Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) undertaking, which supplies electricity to the island city, received 60 complaints of power disruptions through the day. There was no major outage, said the BEST in a statement. Suburbs, too ,saw power cuts. Many areas like Andheri (W), Vile Parle, Kalina, Versova and Kurla experienced power cuts. Adani Electricity Mumbai Limited (AEML) which distributes power to rhe suburbs said its teams rushed to the spot and restored electricity within an hour. “To ensure the continuity of power supply and mitigate any disruptions owing to the cyclone Taukte and heavy rains, team AEML took all the necessary precautions. Our specialized Quick Response Teams were on standby and ensured, wherever there was power disruption complaints, the supply was restored with the minimum interruption,” said an AEML spokesperson.Supply in eastern suburbs like Mulund, Bhandup and Vikhroli too was disrupted in various parts. Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) in its press statement said that maximum impact was felt in Sindhudurga and Ratnagiri.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/city-feels-tauktae-s-fury-101621277651550.html
18-05-2021||Mumbai||Cyclone Tauktae: 3 Navy ships on rescue op to save 410 on two barges||The Indian Navy has deployed three warships in high sea for search and rescue (SAR) assistance of two ships — barge P305 and barge GAL Constructor — with 410 people on board, after they were stranded in Bombay High due to Cyclone Tauktae on Monday afternoon. INS Kochi, INS Kolkata and INS Talwar have been pressed into carrying out the rescue operations.The Indian Navy rescued 38 people of the 273 on-board barge P305, adrift off Heera Oil Fields in Bombay High. The search and rescue operation has been carried out by INS Kochi and INS Kolkata in extreme weather conditions and very rough seas. INS Kolkata, which was headed for barge GAL Constructor, had been diverted to attend to the situation of barge P305.Meanwhile, rescue operations for barge GAL Constructor, stuck around 8 nautical miles from Mumbai coast with 137 people on board, could not be started due to extreme weather condition, said a Navy officer.Several other ships have been prepared for disaster recovery task in the wake of Cyclone Tauktae which has wreaked havoc along the west coast of India, said Commander Mehul Karnik, chief public relations officer (CPRO), Western Naval Command, Indian Navy. The Indian Navy and Indian Coast Guard (ICG) are on high alert as severe cyclonic storm Tauktae passed the Mumbai coast towards Gujarat on Monday. The Navy has kept its flood rescue teams at INS Shikra in Colaba, INS Trata in Worli, Material Organisation in Ghatkopar, INS Tanaji in Mankhurd, and INS Hamla in Malad ready for deployment. The Navy can also operate its Chetak and Sea King helicopters from INS Shikra depending on the weather, said Karnik. He added the Navy was prepared and was on standby as no request had yet been received from the civil administration for immediate help.Timely weather alerts ensured that as many as 4,526 boats from Maharashtra and 2,258 from Gujarat which were out in the sea for fishing have safely returned to the harbours.ICG has also geared up for preventive and response measures along the western coast. ICG ship Samarth, responding to a distress call, rescued 15 crew from a fishing boat named Milad off Goa coast in a swift operation. All crew members are safe, said an ICG official. Apart from that, 40 coast guard disaster relief teams with inflatable boats, lifebuoys and life jackets are on standby along the western coast.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cyclone-tauktae-3-navy-ships-on-rescue-op-to-save-410-on-two-barges-101621277650927.html
18-05-2021||Mumbai||Worst cyclone to come closest to Mumbai in over 40 years||Cylcone Tauktae, an extremely severe cyclonic storm (ESCS) that passed Mumbai shortly after noon on Monday, was the worst cyclone to have skirted the city in at least four decades leading to a cancellation of flights, bringing sections of the public transportation network to a halt, and disrupting the work from home schedules of residents due to power-cuts and poor mobile connectivity. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) confirmed that Tauktae began crossing Mumbai’s latitude at about 12.37pm on Monday, at a distance of about 120-130km from the coast. Independent experts said the cyclone, which intensified into an extremely severe storm early on Monday, was likely the first such category of storm to venture this close to the port city since 1891. By comparison, cyclone Nisarga, a severe cyclonic storm (a category of lesser intensity) that made landfall in the state’s Raigad district last June, glanced 110 km off Mumbai’s coast, but left the city largely unscathed. “It can be safely assumed that in the satellite era -- from 1980 onwards -- Tauktae is the most intense tropical cyclone to venture so close to Mumbai. It is a Category 4 system, as per global standards of the Joint Typhoon Warning Centre whereas Nisarga was a significantly weaker Category 1 tropical cyclone, which in turn had also become weaker by the time it made landfall at the Diveagar coast in Maharashtra,” Akshay Deoras, an independent meteorologist associated with the University of Reading, United Kingdom, said. “In November 1948, a severe cyclone had landfall north of Mumbai. The IMD doesn’t mention in their cyclone dataset whether it was an ESCS, but it was probably not. So, if that’s ruled out, Tauktae is the first ESCS to come so close to Mumbai since 1891. It is significant because it may be sooner than 100 years before such an incident happens again,” said Matthew Roxy Koll, a climate scientist at the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology. Impact of the storm When it achieved peak intensity off the Mumbai coast, the cyclone itself was traveling at a speed of 120 knots, or 222kmph, as it travelled north-westward toward Gujarat, unleashing gale winds touching upwards of 100kmph in the city.Tauktae’s intensity was felt across the city as residents shared videos of fallen trees, broken power cables and choppy waves in the Arabian Sea as wind speeds of 114 km/hour were reported at around 2 pm by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s weather station at Afghan Church in Colaba. Mumbai’s Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA) closed all flight operations starting 11 am on Monday and diverted at least seven planes through the day. Airlines cancelled services to Mumbai, including 34 arrivals and 22 departures, and the airport resumed services late Monday night. During the day, nearly 20 local trains were cancelled and 50 delayed owing to the disruption in both the Central and Western Railway suburban train networks, due to waterlogging and tree falls, while the BrihanMumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) diverted buses on 72 routes in the city due to waterlogging in 19 arterial roads. Eight people were injured in 26 incidents of wall collapses in three separate incidents, while 17 incidents of short circuit and at least 479 tree falls – 158 in south Mumbai alone -- were reported in the city. A wall of house collapsed injuring four members of a family in Borivali east, while in Andheri, a woman was injured when a slab of a wall fell over her. According to the BMC, the woman’s condition is stable, and she is admitted to a private hospital. Two people are feared to have drowned in two separate incidents in Mahim and Madh, where 10 people were stuck in their boats due to the rough seas and coast guards had to go to their aid, the BMC disaster management cell confirmed. Some of the survivors swam back to safety. Power supply was interrupted in many areas like Andheri west, Vile Parle, Kalina, Versova and Kurla. “To ensure the continuity of power supply and mitigate any disruptions owing to the cyclone Tauktae and heavy rains, team AEML took all the necessary precautions. Our specialized Quick Response Teams were on standby and ensured, wherever there were power disruption complaints, the supply was restored with the minimum interruption,” a spokesperson for Adani Electricity Mumbai Limited (AEML) which distributes power to the suburbs, said. Eastern suburbs like Mulund, Bhandup and Vikhroli, which the state-owned Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) supplies power to, were also affected. The company later said in a statement said that disruptions were experienced in other districts too, including Sindhudurg and Ratnagiri, and that it aimed to restore normalcy by late Monday with a focus on Covid Care Centres and vaccination centres. BMC officials said that south Mumbai was the most hit as the cyclone went from south to north further towards Gujarat, leading to severe waterlogging in areas including Oval Maidan, Warden Road, Colaba as well as low-lying areas such as Hindmata, King’s Circle, and Dadar TT in central parts of the city.Civic activist Nikhil Desai from Dadar said, “Like every year even this year we had water logging in King’s Circle and Hindmata area. Though the rainfall was not expected this early but this shows that we are not prepared for the monsoon like every year. I do not know how much underground rainwater storage tank work is completed, but it is the truth that minutes of rainfall resulted in Hindmata and King Circle’s Gandhi Market got flooded.”Wettest May Mumbai also recorded the highest rainfall for the month of May, with its Santacruz observatory registering 194mm in 12 hours. The last time the city had experienced a wetter May was in 2000, when on May 19, it registered 190mm of rain. Private forecasters recorded close to 276mm and 252mm of rain in Juhu and Worli – both areas close to the sea -- though the IMD did not confirm these numbers separately. The city, however, was spared the fate wrought by the extreme rainfall event (an altogether different climatic event) on July 26, 2005, when it recorded 644mm in a 12-hour period between 8 am and 8 pm, which led to floods and brought life to a standstill. Jayanta Sarkar, meteorologist and head of the IMD’s regional forecasting centre in Mumbai, said, “At Santacruz weather station, which is representative of the whole city, we recorded the highest rainfall for May ever at 194mm. It is possible that other locations may have exceeded this amount. The same goes for wind speeds. At the IMD’s Colaba observatory today we recorded a maximum wind speed of 108kmph, but it is possibly higher in other locations.” State environment minister Aaditya Thackeray held a meeting with BMC officials on Monday following which he posted on Twitter: “We are doing everything we can to keep you safe. The BMC has begun to clear out fallen trees with every breather we get in the pattern of strong winds and heavy rain. We are working to ensure normalcy at the earliest. Today’s cyclone hit wind speeds of 114 kmph, highest ever for Mumbai in any recent records. This is a climatic pattern that we have started studying, along with its maximum impact points, water logging areas and types of trees that are damaged. Our 3 jumbo covid care centres that have been vacated as precaution, will now be taken up for maintenance and repairs over the next 10 days.”“One does not see a cyclonic storm with such high intensity hitting the coast. Above threshold sea surface temperatures across the Arabian Sea, particularly over east central and adjoining northeast Arabian Sea, have kept on strengthening Cyclone Tauktae. Essentially, due to global warming, the tropical storm which would have otherwise degraded to a cyclonic or low-pressure depression prior to landfall can now sustain the strength of very severe to severe cyclonic storms very close to the coast. This change is here to stay, and we might see more devastating storms in the future that are more damaging than even Tauktae,” said Mahesh Palawat, VP Meteorology at private forecaster Skymet Weather.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/worst-cyclone-to-come-closest-to-mumbai-in-over-40-years-101621277590927.html
18-05-2021||Kolkata||Narada sting case: CBI arrests 4 people, including 2 Bengal ministers||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Monday arrested three Trinamool Congress legislators, including two cabinet ministers, and the former mayor of Kolkata in connection with the 2016 Narada sting operation case.Late on Monday night, the Calcutta High Court stayed the bail of all four leaders. Earlier in the day, a special CBI court had granted interim bail to the four leaders. The CBI, however, refused to release them till late in the night, while the agency moved the Calcutta High Court against the order of the special court.The matter was virtually heard by acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal and justice Arijit Banerjee for nearly an hour after which the bail was stayed.“We were not made a party to the hearing. We have not received the court order. We were kept in the dark. We will plan our next over after going through the order,” said Anindya Raut, advocate.The next hearing would be held on Wednesday. Till then the four leaders would be lodged in the Presidency Correctional Home. “We just came to know that the bail order has been reversed and stayed by the Calcutta High Court till Wednesday,” said Jay Prakash Majumdar, vice president of BJP’ unit in West Bengal.Following their arrest chief minister Mamata Banerjee rushed to the CBI’s office at Nizam Palace in south Kolkata. She left after nearly six hours.A huge contingent of the Kolkata Police and Rapid Action Force was deployed outside the CBI office at Nizam Palace and Presidency correctional home. TMC workers assembled in thousands at both locations.“Mamata told CBI officials that she should also be arrested,” a TMC leader, aware of the development, told the media.The case pertains to a controversy that erupted ahead of the 2016 assembly elections after Narada News portal uploaded a series of videos purportedly showing a number of high-profile TMC leaders receiving money in exchange for favours to a fictitious company. “The CBI has today arrested four then (former) ministers, government of West Bengal in a case related to the Narada sting operation... it was alleged that then public servants were caught on camera while receiving illegal gratification from the sting operator,” CBI spokesperson RC Joshi said in Delhi. All four leaders were booked under sections 120b of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and sections 7 and 13(1)(a) 13(1)(b) of the Prevention of Corruption Act.The TMC alleged that the CBI was acting on BJP’s orders as the party was behaving in a vindictive manner after losing the assembly elections. While the TMC won 213 seats, the BJP could only manage 77 seats. “We condemn this. The BJP is not being able to accept the humiliating defeat and hence trying to take revenge. Why isn’t Mukul Roy, vice president of BJP being arrested? He was also seen in the Narada sting operation,” said Kunal Ghosh, TMC spokesperson.Hundreds of TMC workers hit the streets and protested against the arrest of their leaders. Tension mounted when some protestors hurled bricks, shoes and bottles at the central forces, guarding the CBI office. TMC supporters blocked roads with burning tyres, burnt effigies of the Prime Minister.“Law is taking its own course. BJP has nothing to do with this,” said Samik Bhattacharjee, BJP spokesperson. The Speaker of the West Bengal legislative assembly said that the arrests were illegal and undemocratic as his permission was not taken. “The speaker’s prior permission is necessary to arrest a legislator and before submitting charge sheet. The CBI, however, didn’t take any permission. It is illegal and unconstitutional,” said West Bengal assembly speaker Biman Banerjee.On May 9, West Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar had “accorded sanction for prosecution” of Hakim, Mukherjee, Mitra and Chatterjee. CPIM Rajya Sabha MP, former mayor and senior advocate Bikash Ranjan Bhattacharya however said, “The arrests were not illegal. They have been booked under the Prevention of Corruption Act. While taking cognizance, the court would see whether the crime has anything to do with the work of the assembly or the speaker. If it has nothing to do, then no permission is required.”“It was a long wait. Finally, I got the result. This is a fight against corruption. My question is what happened to Suvendu Adhikari? He also received the money from me. It was recorded and handed over to CBI. Justice has to go everywhere in the same manner,” said Mathew Samuel, chief executive of Narada News, who conducted the sting operation purportedly showing senior Trinamool Congress leaders accepting bribes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/narada-sting-case-cbi-arrests-4-people-including-2-bengal-ministers-101621276691360.html
18-05-2021||Noida||Man found dead in Noida, police suspect his friends||A day after the body of a 38-year-old man was found in a house in Noida’s Sector 35, police on Monday said that they have identified the victim’s three friends who allegedly killed him after an argument.The victim was identified as Raju, a native of Jalpaiguri in West Bengal who was currently living in Delhi where he worked as a labour contractor. According to police, information had come in around 2pm on Sunday about the body in a house by the landlord.Police officials said that the body was sent for an autopsy. “The autopsy concluded the cause of death to be an ante-mortem head injury. We have informed the victim’s family and they are on their way,” said Rajneesh Verma, assistant commissioner of police (ACP), zone 1.The officials said that one of the suspects, who was the tenant in the Sector 35 house, is also a labour contractor.“At least three people and the victim were hanging out at the place and drinking alcohol. It seems that there was a disagreement, following which Raju was hit on the head by a heavy object by the suspects, after which they fled,” said Verma.He said that the suspects are from West Bengal and some Northeastern state, and it is a possibility that they all fled to their hometowns. “Teams have been dispatched to look for them. A probe is underway and all angles are being explored,” the ACP said.The officials said that a case of murder will be registered at Sector 24 police station once the victim’s family gives a complaint.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/man-found-dead-in-noida-police-suspect-his-friends-101621274770734.html
18-05-2021||Pune||Stock shortage leads to no vax drive for second consecutive day in Pune||Pune: Officials have confirmed that there would be no Covid-19 vaccination dive on Tuesday which means that the campaign has been halted for two consecutive days. The administration has cited stock shortage for the vaccination disruption. Health officials said that the new stock is likely to arrive by Tuesday afternoon which would be distributed to centres and the drive would resume by Wednesday. Pune mayor Murlidhar Mohol tweeted on Monday that there would be no vaccination drive at any of the centres on Tuesday as there is no available stock in the city. Similarly, PCMC has also cancelled its vaccination drive due to the same reason. While Pune city and PCMC saw no vaccination drive on Monday, Pune rural saw 711 people get the jab on the day. In Pune rural, none of those aged between 18-43 years received the vaccine. Of the 711, 190 are of Covaxin and remaining Covisheild.Officials said that Tuesday also the drive would continue in rural Pune with the remaining stock.Deputy director of health services Dr Sanjay Deshmukh said, “There was no vaccination drive on Monday as well as on Tuesday it will remain cancelled as we do not have available stocks. We are expecting to get fresh stock by Tuesday afternoon which would then be dispatched to the centres by Tuesday night. The drive would resume on Wednesday. We are expecting to get above 18,000 to 25,000 Covishield doses by tomorrow.” As of May 16, Pune district has seen a total of 2,616,521 doses being administered of which 291,998 were given to frontline workers and 227,095 to healthcare workers as both first and second dose, 49,377 as first dose to those aged between 18-44 years and 2,048,051 as first and second dose to those aged above 45 years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/stock-shortage-leads-to-no-vax-drive-for-second-consecutive-day-in-pune-101621268650513.html
18-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra University to ask govt to allow offline MBBS exams from June 2||Days after state’s medical education minister Amit Deshmukh convened a meeting to take a final call on the pending second-and third-year MBBS exams, officials from the Maharashtra University of Health Sciences (MUHS) are now approaching the state government, seeking permission to commence exams from June 2.The state had said that the exams will be conducted in the first week of June. “As the lockdown in Maharashtra officially ends on June 1 at 7am, we are sending a proposal to the state government for permitting to conduct exams without any further delay,” said Dr Ajit Pathak, controller of examinations, MUHS. “We are ready and so are the institutes. As the lockdown has been extended from May 15 to June 1, we will wait to get guidance from the government before conducting exams,” he added.Usually scheduled to take place in the month of December-January, the second-and third-year MBBS exams were postponed thrice this academic year due to the rising Covid-19 cases across the state. To make use of this time, MUHS in a circular released in the last week of April, asked all its affiliated colleges to start regular lectures and academic activities from the next academic year, even though final exams for the second-and third-year batches are yet to be conducted for the current academic year. “The teaching schedule of the next academic year should continue uninterrupted as these students are carried over to the next academic year, irrespective of the exam results,” stated the MUHS circular dated April 29.The dean and principals of colleges have been directed to ensure strict compliance of Covid-19 safety protocols while conducting academic activities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-university-to-ask-govt-to-allow-offline-mbbs-exams-from-june-2-101621265650365.html
18-05-2021||Pune||Mhalwadi, a ‘learning village’ in Pune district||Pune: The Covid-19 has resulted in schools being shut, children out of classrooms, and teaching being undertaken remotely and on digital platforms. However, there are some villages with no internet connectivity. Mhalwadi, a village 50 kms from Pune in Bhor taluka, has found a way to overcome the situation. It has turned its walls into colourful blackboards for students. More than 100 walls in the village are painted with lessons on various subjects. Drawings, formulas, diagrams and other details that are taught in schools are painted on the walls of buildings and homes across the village for the benefit of children. The initiative is taken by Rajesh Bodke from the village. “The students of our village used to study at the zilla parishad school that is closed since the Covid outbreak last year. Their parents are farmers with limited economic means. They do not have smartphones to study online and even the mobile connectivity at the village gets disrupted often. As I also did my primary education at this zilla parishad school, I decided to do something to help the students. I met the school teachers and we came up with the idea to turn the entire village into a school. Accordingly, since the last two months, we have painted over 100 walls across the village with information and lessons for school-going children,” said Rajesh. According to Rajesh, the project was inaugurated on Sunday. “Any student can learn from these information boards and school lessons from anywhere around the village. There are Mathematics formulas, tables, history and civics lessons, body parts information, science related diagrams and other details that student can learn while walking around the village. I have spend around ₹1.5 lakh on the project and am feeling satisfied to do something for my village,” Rajesh said. The village has one zilla parishad school with around 52 students. As schools are closed across the country since March last year, those studying outstation have returned to their hometown, and their count is 50. Appreciating the work of the learning walls, Ketan Patil, a 12-year-old student from the village, said, “Our studies are affected by the pandemic. These learning walls help us to sit and read the information and lessons as a fun activity.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/mhalawadi-a-learning-village-in-pune-district-101621261870243.html
18-05-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab School Education Board declares results of Classes 8, 10||The Punjab School Education Board on Monday declared results of classes 8 and 10 on the basis of a continuous comprehensive evaluation (CCE) for the former and internal assessment for the latter. The results will be uploaded on the PSEB’s official website www.pseb.ac.in and www.indiaresults.com on Tuesday after 8am.In Class 10, 99.93% of students cleared the exam as out of the total 3,21,384 students, 3,21,163 passed. In Class 8, the pass percentage is 99.88% as out of the total 3,07,272 students, 3,06,894 have passed.Continuing the trend this year too, girls outshone boys in both the classes. In Class 10, the pass percentage of girls is 99.94%, while that of boys is 99.92%. In Class 8, the pass percentage of girls is 99.9%, and boys’ is 99.86%.PSEB chairperson Yograj said it was for the first time that the board had recorded a pass percentage of above 99% in both the classes. He said for the third consecutive year, government schools have performed far better than affiliated and associated schools. For Class 10, the pass percentage of government schools is 99.96%, while in affiliated schools, it is 99.89% and in associated schools, it is 99.85%.Similarly for Class 8, the pass percentage of government schools is 99.91%, while in affiliated and associated schools, it is 99.85% and 99.77%, respectively. In Class 10, Rupnagar district topped the state by scoring 99.99% pass percentage, followed by Bathinda with 99.97%. Tarn Taran district remained on the bottom with 99.89%.In Class 8, Tarn Taran topped the charts by achieving 99.97% pass percentage followed by Bathinda with 99.96%. Muktsar Sahib district remained on the bottom with 99.28%.If not satisfied with result , write to us: ChairmanPSEB chairman Yograj said that if a child is not satisfied with the result, he/she can write to the board and can take the theory exam once the normalcy returns. “For Class 10, they can write to us on matricsecrecy.pseb@punjab.gov.in and for Class 8, the email id is primarymiddle.pseb@punjab.gov.in,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-school-education-board-declares-results-of-classes-8-10-101621248070376.html
18-05-2021||World||Ukraine sacks health minister over poor handling of Covid-19 crisis||The Ukrainian parliament on Tuesday sacked health minister Maksym Stepanov after he was heavily criticised for his poor handling of the coronavirus crisis.One of the poorest countries in Europe with an ageing healthcare system, Ukraine was hard-hit by the pandemic and is slow in its vaccine roll-out.Some 292 lawmakers, with 226 required, voted for the dismissal of Stepanov who was appointed health minister in March 2020.Prime Minister Denys Shmygal, who initiated Stepanov's sacking, told the parliament that Stepanov was responsible for the "unsatisfactory pace of vaccination" against Covid-19 and failures in vaccine procurement.Since the start of the pandemic the country of 40 million has recorded more than 2.1 million infections and over 48,000 deaths.Ukraine launched its vaccination campaign in February, later than most European countries, and so far fewer than 950,000 people received a first dose."Yes, all is not ideal, far from ideal", Stepanov told lawmakers ahead of the vote, accusing vaccine producers and suppliers for the delays.Producers first dealt with demand in their own countries "before making deliveries abroad," he said in his defence.Stepanov has come under fire for his handling of the pandemic while opposition politicians and activists have said systemic corruption was behind the poor government response.Critics accused him of engaging a Ukrainian intermediary firm to buy a Chinese-made vaccine, saying it would have been cheaper to buy doses directly.Several charities also denounced the shortage of medical oxygen for patients in serious condition, accusing the government of failing to prepare the country for the second wave of the pandemic in autumn 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/ukraine-sacks-health-minister-over-poor-handling-of-covid-19-crisis-101621360585415.html
18-05-2021||World||Biden advisor makes personal appeal to young to get vaccinated against Covid-19||A top White House aide made his pitch for young people to get vaccinated personal, sharing the struggles his own son has dealt with on an ongoing basis since contracting Covid-19 last fall.Andy Slavitt, President Joe Biden's senior advisor for the coronavirus, revealed during a White House briefing Tuesday that one of his sons came down with the virus late last year and continues to suffer lingering side effects. He used it to appeal to younger Americans to roll up their sleeves, even if they feel they're at relatively lower risk than older Americans to serious consequences from the virus.“Unfortunately, he is one of the many Americans battling long term symptoms," Slavitt said of his son. “Six months later, he still suffers from tachycardia, shortness of breath and ongoing and frequent flu-like symptoms.”“Many young people are in this situation, and many, many have it worse," Slavitt added.Not much is known about what has come to be known as long Covid.'“We're faced with a mystery,” Dr. Francis Collins, chief of the National Institutes of Health, said in March, as his agency kicked off additional studies to learn more about the condition and study potential treatments.Researchers are hoping to learn whether it is a condition unique to Covid-19, or just a variation of the syndrome that can occur after other infections. They're examining how many people are affected, and how long it lasts, and whether it's possible that the source isn't Covid-19 at all.Meanwhile, Slavitt said that the surest way for young Americans to avoid a similar fate is to get vaccinated themselves.“I know it's easy when you're young to imagine that these things don't affect you, a vaccine may feel unnecessary, you feel healthy, you know people who had Covid and they're doing alright," he said, adding. "But we are still learning about the long term effects of Covid.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/biden-advisor-makes-personal-appeal-to-young-to-get-vaccinated-against-covid19-101621359282632.html
18-05-2021||World||Number of severe Covid-19 cases hits record high in Japan||Japan on Tuesday registered another record high number of severe coronavirus cases as more than 1,200 patients are now using ventilators or receiving treatment at intensive care units across Japan.This comes as a state of emergency was declared in the capital Tokyo, Osaka, and seven other prefectures, NHK World reported.According to the Japanese broadcaster, citizens are being asked to stay home as much as possible until the end of this month.In the wake of rising cases, Japan is set to impose stricter restrictions for those who have been in Bangladesh, Maldives, and Sri Lanka in the 14 days before arrival to prevent a new Covid variant first found in India, Kyodo News reported.The latest steps will be effective in stages from Thursday.Amid struggles to cope up with the pandemic, Japan's economy in fiscal 2020 shrank a real 4.6 percent from the previous year, the sharpest annual contraction on record, as the coronavirus dealt a debilitating blow to consumption and exports.According to the government data, the previous record contraction was 3.6 percent shrinkage in fiscal 2008 logged due to the global financial crisis.As many as 5,000 more new infections were reported on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/number-of-severe-covid-19-cases-hits-record-high-in-japan-101621359296855.html
18-05-2021||World||India's halt to vaccine exports 'very problematic' for Africa||An extended halt to exports of Covid-19 vaccines from India, where authorities are battling a wave of domestic infections, risks derailing vaccination efforts already underway in Africa, one of the continent's top health officials said on Tuesday.India stopped vaccine exports a month ago and, according to a Reuters report earlier on Tuesday, is now unlikely to resume major exports before October, dealing a major setback to the global COVAX initiative on which many poor countries rely.Africa has lagged far behind other regions due to supply issues and meagre financial resources but had planned to vaccinate 30-35% of its population by the end of the year and 60% within the next two to three years."This is very problematic as it means unpredictability of our vaccination programmes and a serious risk of not achieving our stated target... on time," the director of the Africa Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, John Nkengasong, wrote to Reuters.Those targets primarily relied on supplies from the global COVAX vaccine-sharing facility, which has depended heavily on AstraZeneca shots produced by the Serum Institute of India (SII)."Given India's huge challenges, it will be impossible to expect anything soon," Nkengasong said.There have been at least 4,742,000 reported infections and 126,000 reported deaths caused by the novel coronavirus in Africa so far, according to a Reuters tally.Also Read | Serum CEO Adar Poonawalla defends vaccine export, says ‘daily cases were at an all-time low’And while the pandemic's impact has been less acute than in the United States, Europe and now India, Africa's largely unvaccinated population of over 1 billion remains vulnerable, experts say.COVAX had already begun distributing millions of doses of the two-shot AstraZeneca vaccine to countries across Africa. But those initial shipments have now been largely exhausted, with around 80% having been administered as a first dose, according to the World Health Organization (WHO).Most countries using COVAX will now surpass the 12-week maximum interval recommended between the first and second dose of AstraZeneca unless 20 million doses are delivered by the end of June and another 5 million in July, the WHO said."The supply gap could be closed if countries with adequate supplies set aside a percentage of vaccines for COVAX," said Richard Mihigo, coordinator of the WHO's Immunization and Vaccines Development Programme in Africa.A deal negotiated with Johnson & Johnson by the African Union should supply Africa with 400 million vaccine doses beginning in the third quarter of this year.Several countries' health officials told Reuters they had yet to receive updated information on expected arrival dates for COVAX shots. Some are now weighing their options.Ethiopia, for example, has received just 2.2 million of the 7.6 million AstraZeneca shots it was due to get through COVAX by the end of April."We were expecting some delays, but not to this scale. As a country we must search other options," Muluken Yohannes, a senior adviser to Ethiopia's health ministry, told Reuters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/indias-halt-to-vaccine-exports-very-problematic-for-africa-101621357572828.html
18-05-2021||World||US single-family home rents hit 14-year high as costs surge||Rents for single-family homes in the U.S. climbed to the highest level since September 2006 as the pandemic pushes Americans to seek out more space.Rent jumped 4.3% in March compared with a year earlier, according an index from CoreLogic Inc., led by double-digit increases in Phoenix and Tucson, Arizona.Housing costs are surging across the U.S., adding to concerns about rising inflation as vaccination campaigns and falling Covid-19 cases stoke the economy. Rent for single-family homes has been accelerating as larger living spaces for the era of social-distancing and remote work became a priority.The rent hikes have boosted single-family landlords Invitation Homes Inc., American Homes 4 Rent, and Tricon Residential Inc., which have seen shares reach all-time highs in recent weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-single-family-home-rents-hit-14-year-high-as-costs-surge-101621343360672.html
18-05-2021||World||UK judge's order brings Indian banks closer to recovering debts from Vijay Mallya||A consortium of Indian banks led by the State Bank of India (SBI) on Tuesday moved a step closer in their attempt to recover debt from loans paid out to Vijay Mallya’s now-defunct Kingfisher Airlines after the High Court in London upheld an application to amend their bankruptcy petition, in favour of waiving their security over the embattled businessman’s assets in India.Chief Insolvencies and Companies Court (ICC) Judge Michael Briggs handed down his judgment in favour of the banks to declare there is no public policy that prevents a waiver of security rights, as argued by Mallya’s lawyers.At a virtual hearing, July 26 was set as the date for final arguments for and against granting a bankruptcy order against the 65-year-old Mallya after the banks accused him of trying to “kick matters into the long grass” and called on the “bankruptcy petition to be brought to its inevitable end”.“I order that permission be given to amend the petition to read as follows: ‘The Petitioners (banks) having the right to enforce any security held are willing, in the event of a bankruptcy order being made, to give up any such security for the benefit of all the bankrupt’s creditors’,” Justice Briggs’ judgment reads.“There is nothing in the statutory provisions that prevent the Petitioners from giving up security,” he notes.Mallya’s barrister, Philip Marshall, had referenced witness statements of retired Indian judges in previous hearings to reiterate that there is “public interest under Indian law” by virtue of the banks being nationalised.However, Justice Briggs found no impediment to the creditors relinquishing their security under Indian law because of the engagement of a “principle concerning public interest” and favoured the submissions made by retired Indian Supreme Court judge Gopala Gowda at a hearing in December 2020 on the matter.“In my judgment the simple stance taken by Justice Gowda that Section 47 PIA 1920 is evidence of the ability of a secured creditor to relinquish the creditor’s security is to be preferred,” the ruling notes.The Indian banks, represented by the law firm TLT LLP and barrister Marcia Shekerdemian, were also granted costs in totality for the petition hearings, as the “overall successful” party in the case.“Dr Mallya should have been extradited by now. He was refused permission to go to the Supreme Court in May last year,” Shekerdemian pointed out, in reference to one of Mallya’s defence planks that the cases against him are “politically motivated”.Mallya remains on bail in the UK while a “confidential” legal matter, believed to be related to an asylum application, is resolved in connection with the unrelated extradition proceedings.Meanwhile, the SBI-led consortium of 13 Indian banks, which also includes Bank of Baroda, Corporation bank, Federal Bank Ltd, IDBI Bank, Indian Overseas Bank, Jammu & Kashmir Bank, Punjab & Sind Bank, Punjab National Bank, State Bank of Mysore, UCO Bank, United Bank of India and JM Financial Asset Reconstruction Co Pvt Ltd as well as an additional creditor, have been pursuing a bankruptcy order in the UK in relation to a judgment debt which stands at over GBP 1 billion.Mallya’s legal team contends that the debt remains disputed and that the ongoing proceedings in India inhibit a bankruptcy order being made in the UK.“The pandemic is having a much more severe impact in India than here, which has slowed things up. Dr Mallya would like things to be faster,” said his barrister Philip Marshall.The case is now scheduled for a day-long hearing on July 26 for Justice Briggs to hear arguments from both sides on whether there is any reason why it should look “behind the judgment debt” to consider all such factors and therefore not grant a bankruptcy order.Presenting a brief background to the petition, which dates back to 2018, the latest judgment describes Mallya as an “entrepreneur businessman” who had considerable financial success in India and other parts of the world as Chief Executive Officer and shareholder of Kingfisher Airways (KFA) and controlling director and main shareholder in United Breweries Holdings Ltd (UBHL).“The cost of aviation fuel rose in 2008, and the value of the rupee declined against the dollar. Dr Mallya decided to borrow substantial sums from some of the Petitioners,” the judgment reads.“Dr Mallya provided personal guarantees for the sums borrowed from the Petitioners in 2010. UBHL also provided a guarantee,” it adds.The debt in question comprises principal and interest, plus compound interest at a rate of 11.5 per cent per annum from 25 June 2013. Mallya has made applications in India to contest the compound interest charge. PTI AK SCY AKJ SCY||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-judge-s-order-brings-indian-banks-closer-to-recovering-debts-from-vijay-mallya-101621350431416.html
18-05-2021||World||China's rocket debris spurs calls for policies to mitigate space junk||The uncontrolled re-entry of a China Long March rocket into Earth's atmosphere has spurred the calls for new policies to help mitigate the growing problem of space junk.Early this month, the remnants of the Chinese rocket plunged into the Indian Ocean near the Maldives.Most of the huge Long March 5B rocket, however, burned up on reentering the atmosphere, the China Manned Space Engineering Office said in a post on WeChat, before it landed just west of the Maldives.The rocket, which was about 108 feet tall and weighs nearly 40,000 pounds, had launched a piece of a new Chinese space station into orbit on April 29.After its fuel was spent, the rocket had been left to hurtle through space uncontrolled until Earth's gravity dragged it back to the ground.Generally, most rockets used to lift satellites and other objects into space conduct more controlled reentries that aim for the ocean, or they are left in so-called "graveyard" orbits that keep them in space for decades or centuries.But the Long March rocket is designed in a way that "leaves these big stages in low orbit," said Jonathan McDowell, an astrophysicist at the Astrophysics Centre at Harvard University.NASA, the US space agency, castigated China for failing to meet "responsible standards regarding its space debris" after remnants of a Chinese rocket plunged into the Indian Ocean."Spacefaring nations must minimise the risks to people and property on Earth of re-entries of space objects and maximize transparency regarding those operations," CNN quoted NASA Administrator Senator Bill Nelson's statement."China is failing to meet responsible standards regarding their space debris," he added.Chinese officials downplayed the mishap, but this is not the first time that a piece of Chinese space hardware has made an uncontrolled landing, and the latest incident highlights the need to mitigate a larger space debris issue, Al Jazeera reported.However, no other launcher in the world leaves such a massive component to fall back to Earth in an uncontrolled manner.This is not the first time that a piece of Chinese hardware has made an uncontrolled landing.In July 2019, China's previous space station, called Tiangong-2, began to make its descent back to Earth after being decommissioned.The Chinese government also downplayed the risk to populated areas, as it was able to target a specific landing area in the Pacific Ocean thanks to minimal onboard fuel reserves.There is no law on the books currently that forbids pieces of rockets from crashing to Earth's surface. But there are rules in place that say who is responsible when it comes to damage or injury from space junk.The issue of space debris is not new but is expected to grow as more nations build space programmes and more objects are launched into space."Space debris has been known for a while, but now you have more competition in space," Joanne Gabrynowicz, a professor at the National Center for Remote Sensing, Air, and Space Law at the Mississippi School of Law, told Al Jazeera."You do not just have two spacefaring nations - the Chinese are becoming very significant, as is the European Space Agency, among others. When you have more actors and more stuff, it gets more complicated," she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/chinas-rocket-debris-spurs-calls-for-policies-to-mitigate-space-junk-101621347798854.html
18-05-2021||World||China resisting bilateral nuclear arms talks: US||China is resisting bilateral talks with the United States on nuclear weapons, the U.S. disarmament ambassador told a U.N. conference on Tuesday, as Washington seeks to advance efforts to reduce nuclear arms stockpiles."Despite the PRC's dramatic build-up of its nuclear arsenal, unfortunately it continues to resist discussing nuclear risk reduction bilaterally with the United States," said Robert Wood, referring to the People's Republic of China."To date Beijing has not been willing to engage meaningfully or establish expert discussions similar to those we have with Russia. We sincerely hope that will change," he added.In an apparent rebuttal, China's envoy later told the same virtual U.N. meeting that Beijing was prepared for dialogue."We stand ready to carry out positive dialogue and exchange with all parties to jointly explore effective measures to reduce nuclear risk and to contribute to global strategic security," Ji Zhaoyu said.The exchange came at a discussion on the Prevention of Nuclear War at the 65-member U.N. Conference on Disarmament based in Geneva. The body, which makes decisions by consensus, has not reached a major agreement in decades but is often the theatre for tense rhetorical exchanges between superpowers.Earlier this year, Russia and the United States agreed to extend the New START arms control treaty for five years, preserving the last treaty limiting deployments of the world's two largest strategic nuclear arsenals.Russia's President Vladimir Putin and U.S. President Joe Biden are set to discuss arms control and security issues at a meeting and strategic nuclear stability will be on the agenda. Wood said on Tuesday he hoped that such bilateral discussions may lay the groundwork for nuclear disarmament and future arms control treaties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-resisting-bilateral-nuclear-arms-talks-us-101621346989373.html
18-05-2021||World||China hopes a ‘moderate Muslim’ leadership will run Afghanistan in the future||China says it hopes to see a “moderate Muslim” leadership in Afghanistan in the future and has assured the country of help in strengthening its anti-terrorism capacities as Kabul prepares for the departure of US troops later this year.In two phone calls to Afghanistan’s senior leadership on Monday, China’s state councillor and foreign minister Wang Yi laid out what Beijing sees on the road ahead for China-Afghanistan ties.“China hopes that Afghanistan’s future leadership will pursue a moderate Muslim policy, promote a foreign policy of peace, maintain friendship with neighbouring countries, and firmly combat all forms of terrorism. China will continue to play a constructive role in advancing the peace and reconciliation process in Afghanistan,” Wang told Afghan foreign minister Mohammad Haneef Atmar.China is stepping up cooperation with Afghanistan and Central Asian countries as the September 11 deadline for the complete withdrawal of US troops approaches as it prepares for any subsequent threat to its projects under the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) in the region.The international community, particularly countries in the region, should help the Afghan people consolidate the fruits of peace and reconstruction in the country, Wang said.Wang added that China will continue to support the Afghan government in playing a leading role in the country’s peace and reconciliation process.He called on all parties to support and implement relevant United Nations Security Council resolutions to promote a smooth transition of the situation in Afghanistan, to avoid in particular a resurgence of terrorism. During a phone call on Monday with Hamdullah Mohib, national security adviser to Afghan president Ashraf Ghani, Wang emphasised that China endorses the “Afghan-led, Afghan-owned” principle, adding that Beijing supports all parties in Afghanistan in finding a broad and inclusive political arrangement through peaceful means.Wang said the “unilateral withdrawal” of US troops has brought uncertainty in the country, especially at the current crucial stage of the “Afghan domestic reconciliation process”.“China is ready to facilitate internal negotiations among various parties in Afghanistan, including creating necessary conditions for negotiations in China,” Wang added.Last week, Wang was quoted by Chinese media as telling Central Asian countries that it was necessary for neighbouring countries of Afghanistan, including Uzbekistan and Tajikistan, to coordinate their positions in a timely manner, speak with one voice, and fully support the Afghan domestic peace process.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-hopes-a-moderate-muslim-leadership-will-run-afghanistan-in-the-future-101621347614162.html
18-05-2021||World||Won't deviate from lockdown plans: UK PM Boris Johnson on B1.617.2 variant of Covid-19||UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson said on Tuesday that experts continue to monitor the data on the B1.617.2 variant of Covid-19, first identified in India, but there is nothing conclusive yet that indicates that it would force Britain to deviate from its roadmap to lift lockdown restrictions fully next month.Johnson said the government is keeping everything under “very close observation" following the emergence of the B1.617.2 variant of concern (VOC), which is feared to be on track to take over from the local B.1.1.7 variant, first identified in the county of Kent, as the dominant coronavirus mutation in the country."We are looking at the epidemiology the whole time as it comes in and, at the moment, partly because we have built up such a wall of defences with the vaccination programme, I don't see anything conclusive at the moment to say that we need to deviate from the roadmap,” he said, in reference to the government's scheduled June 21 timeline for a complete lifting of lockdown restrictions."But we've got to be cautious and we are keeping everything under very close observation. We'll know a lot more in a few days' time," the prime minister said.Johnson used a visit to a vaccination centre in London to reiterate a message for the British public to continue to come forward for their vaccination when they are invited by the National Health Service (NHS) in order to protect against all variants of Covid-19 after vaccine hesitancy was flagged as one of the factors behind some of the B1.617.2 VOC hotspots in north-west England."The numbers (vaccinations) are incredibly high. And I know that... some people have been more vaccine hesitant than others, but actually, across the whole of society, the numbers continue to go up in every group. And that's very, very encouraging. And I would urge everybody – just to make the obvious point – who is eligible for a vaccine, when you get your call up, when you get the notification from the NHS, come and get your jab," he said.Johnson’s message follows a similar drive by senior ministers, with Health Secretary Matt Hancock informing Parliament on Monday that vaccines seem effective against the highly transmissible B1.617.2 VOC.“There are now 2,323 confirmed cases of B1617.2 in the UK; 483 of these cases have been seen in Bolton and Blackburn with Darwen, where it is now the dominant strain. Cases there have doubled in the last week and are rising in all age groups,” Hancock told the House of Commons in an update on the Covid-19 pandemic in the country.“In Blackburn, hospitalisations are stable, with eight people currently in hospital with Covid. In Bolton, 19 people are now in hospital with coronavirus, the majority of whom are eligible for a vaccine but have not yet had one. That shows that the new variant is not tending to penetrate into older vaccinated groups, and underlines again the importance of getting the jab — especially, but not only, among the vulnerable age groups,” he said.The minister also updated members of Parliament on early evidence which suggests that B1.617.2 is more transmissible than the B.1.1.7 so-called Kent variant.“We do not yet know to what extent it is more transmissible. While we do not have the complete picture of the impact of the vaccine, the early laboratory data from Oxford University corroborates the provisional evidence from the Royal Bolton Hospital and the initial observational data from India that vaccines are effective against the variant. This, of course, is reassuring, but the higher transmission poses a real risk,” he added.According to latest data, more than 36.7 million people have had their first vaccine dose in the UK and more than 20.2 million have had their second. The NHS bookings for a vaccination are now open to all those aged 36 and over.It follows Monday’s significant easing of lockdown rules, with people allowed to socialise indoors and travel around more freely after months. However, a planned review of long-term social distancing requirements for the end of this month is likely to be delayed as the spike in B1.617.2 VOC infections continues to be monitored.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/wont-deviate-from-lockdown-plans-uk-pm-boris-johnson-on-b1-617-2-variant-of-covid19-101621341963855.html
18-05-2021||World||Belgian envoy’s wife slaps shopkeeper in Seoul, then claims diplomatic immunity. What does the law say?||The wife of Belgium’s ambassador to South Korea, who allegedly hit two staff members at a boutique store in Seoul last month, has now invoked diplomatic immunity to avoid criminal charges, police said Tuesday. According to local media reports, a store employee had mistaken Xiang Xueqiu, wife of Ambassador Peter Lescouhier, for a shoplifter and tried to look inside the jacket she was wearing.The security camera footage shared widely online showed Xiang Xueqiu, wife of Ambassador Peter Lescouhier, pushing one of the staff members before slapping her across the face. Lescouhier had previously apologised in an Instagram video, saying her wife “might have had her reasons to be angry at the way she was treated in that shop, but committing physical violence is totally unacceptable."Apologising for her wife’s action, the Belgian envoy said that “[s]he sincerely regrets it and she wants to offer her apologies in person to the shopkeeper when she gets the opportunity to do so." Xiang was hospitalised following the incident but, the ambassador said, was discharged as her “medical condition [was] stabilising”.“Out of respect for the privacy of all persons involved and in the interest of the investigation, I myself and the staff of my embassy will abstain from any further comments on this case,” he added.A post shared by Embassy of Belgium in Seoul (@belgiuminkorea)The incident sparked outrage in South Korea as thousands of people signed petitions on the presidential website calling to expel the ambassador’s wife from the country. While South Korea’s foreign ministry assured that it has been “seriously handling” unlawful behaviour by foreign diplomats, Seoul Metropolitan Police said in a statement that Xiang had exercised her diplomatic immunity and, therefore, will formally drop the case soon.What does the law say?According to the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations, 1961, of which South Korea is a signatory, family members of diplomats living in foreign countries enjoy immunity from arrest in most of the cases. However, the immunity can be voluntarily waived by the sending state and it must always be “express”.“Waiver of immunity from jurisdiction in respect of civil or administrative proceedings shall not be held to imply the waiver of immunity in respect of the execution of the judgement, for which a separate waiver shall be necessary,” reads Article 36(4) of the Vienna Convention.The use of diplomatic immunity has come under scrutiny in other countries, especially after Anne Sacoolas, wife of an American ambassador, fled the United Kingdom using diplomatic immunity following her alleged involvement in a fatal road accident that killed a British teenager, Harry Dunn. The parents of Harry Dunn launched a court case, which they eventually lost in November 2020, to argue that Britain’s Foreign Office wrongly decided Sacoolas had diplomatic immunity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/belgian-envoy-s-wife-slaps-shopkeeper-in-seoul-then-claims-diplomatic-immunity-101621340300835.html
18-05-2021||World||Singapore to vaccinate children aged 12 to 15 against Covid-19 as cases spike||Singapore has decided to vaccinate students aged 12 to 15 following a spike in the number of Covid-19 cases in schools in the city-state, local media reported on Tuesday.Health Minister Ong Ye Kung said that those aged 12 to 15 are to be vaccinated against Covid-19 with the Pfizer-BioNTech injection.The Pfizer-BioNTech Covid-19 vaccine was previously given only to those aged 16 years and above.Ong, who co-chairs the multi-ministry task force on Covid-19, said that the Health Sciences Authority's (HSA) decision was supported by the expert committee on Covid-19 vaccines here."Both teams (expert committee and HSA) have assessed that the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine demonstrated high efficacy and safety for this age group," Ong said at a virtual press conference.The Ministry of Education (MOE) would work with the Ministry of Health (MOH) to plan the vaccination programme for this age group, more details on which would be provided soon.The announcement comes at a time when a number of schoolchildren have tested positive for the deadly virus.Also at the press conference, MOH's director of medical services Kenneth Mak said more children have been infected with Covid-19 this year compared with 2020.Mak said that children are less vigilant and disciplined when following safe measures. Vaccination, he noted, could protect not just children but also the adults around them.But he added that the authorities have not yet decided whether to prioritise vaccinations for children, and that this decision would be made at a later date.Finance Minister Lawrence Wong noted that Singapore has multiple tracks in its vaccination programme, including one that focuses on those in the education sector - teachers, staff and students.Wong, a co-chairman of the task force, said that teachers have already been vaccinated along with students in university hostels.These students were offered the shot due to the communal setting they live in, which poses a higher risk of infection."So both MOH and MOE will be now looking at vaccination as a next step under the education track for schoolgoing children, and we will update in due course," said Wong.Addressing any potential concerns parents might have about the safety of their children, Mak said that the vaccine is not only safe for those aged 12 to 15, but it is also as effective as it would be for adults.Meanwhile, all schools will start full home-based learning (HBL) from Wednesday until May 28 when the school term ends, amid a sharp spike in Covid-19 cases. This applies to all primary, secondary and junior college students, as well as those from Millennia Institute and special education schools.The Government is also ramping up its Covid-19 vaccination programme by starting registration for people aged 40 to 44, and deploying doctors and nurses to homes to help those who are homebound or not mobile to receive their jabs.From Wednesday, residents aged between 40 and 44 can register themselves to get their Covid-19 vaccine jabs, MOH said on Tuesday.As of May 17, the Government has administered more than 3.4 million doses of the Covid-19 vaccine.Close to two million people have received at least the first dose of the vaccine, of whom more than 1.4 million people have received their second dose and completed their vaccination."If all goes smoothly, 4.7 million individuals will be covered by at least one dose of vaccination by August (and) this will substantively cover almost all our eligible population," Ong said.Singapore's population is estimated at 5.9 million.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/singapore-to-vaccinate-children-aged-12-to-15-against-covid-19-as-cases-spike-101621342153403.html
18-05-2021||World||‘We've received more info': US on Gaza tower housing media outlets bombed by Israel||U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken said on Tuesday that Washington had received further information about Israel's destruction of a Gaza high-rise that housed the local offices of the Associated Press and Al Jazeera news organisations.But he declined to comment further on it."We did seek further information from Israel on this question," Blinken said at a joint briefing with Iceland's foreign minister in Reykjavik. "It's my understanding that we've received some further information through intelligence channels, and it's not something I can comment on," he said.Israel said its fighter jets struck a multi-storey building “which contained military assets belonging to the intelligence offices of the Hamas terror organization”.The Associated Press’ top editor Sally Buzbee on Sunday said they were yet to see any evidence from Israeli officials to justify the bombing and added that her organization wants an independent investigation into the incident.A call from by U.S. President Joe Biden on Monday in support of a ceasefire appeared to go unheeded, although cross-border fighting between Israel and Hamas seemed to abate slightly on Tuesday.Ron Dermer, a former Israeli ambassador to Washington and now adviser to Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, told CNN that evidence has been provided to Washington."The evidence has already been provided, as I understand it, to U.S. intelligence officials. And that was a site where you had Hamas intelligence in that building, and they were engaged in activity that actually would have, as far as I understand, would have undermined our ability to actually target effectively and also undermined our ability to intercept incoming rockets."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-has-received-more-info-on-israel-s-destruction-of-gaza-high-rise-blinken-101621340679635.html
18-05-2021||World||More than 15,000 people from Myanmar shelter in Mizoram: Official||The number of people from Myanmar seeking shelter in India has swelled to more than 15,000, with more likely to cross over as fighting intensifies in parts Myanmar following a coup, an Indian government official said on Tuesday.The influx into the small, northeast Indian state of Mizoram, which shares a porous, mountainous border with Myanmar, began in late February as policemen fled to avoid having to take orders from a junta trying to suppress opposition to the Feb. 1 coup.By April, about 1,800 people from Myanmar - including several lawmakers - had crossed the border but the number has recently grown to more than 15,400, according to the vice chairman of Mizoram's State Planning Board, H. Rammawi."It is increasing day by day," Rammawi told Reuters by telephone, adding that many people from Myanmar were going to the homes of relatives making it difficult to track numbers.Communities in Mizoram and some parts of Myanmar have close ethnic ties, with extended families often strung across both sides of the border.About 6,000 of the people from Myanmar are in Mizoram's capital of Aizawl with others scattered in five districts, according to data shared by Rammawi.Rammawi said that residents and non-government organisations were taking care of the people but the state government had sought assistance from federal authorities."Medical aid and their rations are very important," he said, adding that some people from Myanmar had tested positive for the novel coronavirus.With fighting intensifying in northwest Myanmar's Chin State, opposite Mizoram, Rammawi said he expected the numbers seeking refuge in India to increase.The Myanmar hill town of Mindat, about 100 km (60 miles) from the border, has seen some of the most intense fighting since the coup after a militia took up arms against the junta. Thousands have since fled from the town."More people will be coming," Rammawi said.Several thousand villagers have fled from fighting in eastern Myanmar into Thailand since the coup.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/more-than-15-000-people-from-myanmar-shelter-in-mizoram-official-101621338350119.html
18-05-2021||World||UN agency says 52,000 displaced in Gaza, Amnesty wants war crimes investigation||More than 52,000 Palestinians have been displaced by Israeli air strikes that have destroyed or badly damaged nearly 450 buildings in the Gaza Strip, the UN aid agency said on Tuesday.In a separate statement on the conflict, rights group Amnesty International said Israel air strikes on residential buildings might amount to war crimes. Israel says it hits only legitimate military targets and that it does all it can to avoid civilian casualties.About 47,000 of the displaced people have sought shelter in 58 UN-run schools in Gaza, Jens Laerke, a spokesman for the United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA) in Geneva, told reporters.Laerke said 132 buildings had been destroyed and 316 had been severely damaged, including six hospitals and nine primary healthcare centres as well a desalination plant, affecting access to drinking water for about 250,000 people.The UN agency welcomed the fact that Israel had opened a border crossing for humanitarian supplies but called for another crossing to also be opened.The UN and its humanitarian partners are providing food and other assistance to displaced families when the security situation allows, Laerke said.There is a severe shortage of medical supplies, a risk of water-borne diseases and the spread of Covid-19 because of displaced people crowding into schools, said Margaret Harris, a spokeswoman for the World Health Organization.London-based Amnesty International called for an investigation into air strikes on residential buildings in Gaza."Israeli forces have displayed a shocking disregard for the lives of Palestinian civilians by carrying out a number of airstrikes targeting residential buildings in some cases killing entire families - including children - and causing wanton destruction to civilian property, in attacks that may amount to war crimes or crimes against humanity," Amnesty said.Israel says it strikes only sites it deems military targets used by militants and that it regularly issues prior warnings to evacuate buildings it sees as legitimate targets as part of wider efforts to avoid civilian casualties.Amnesty, which urged both sides last week not to violate humanitarian law, said it had documented four deadly attacks by Israel launched on residential homes without prior warning and called on the International Criminal Court to investigate.It said Israeli strikes on May 11 destroyed two residential buildings belonging to the Abu al-Ouf and al-Kolaq families, killing 30 people, 11 of them children. A mother and three children were killed on May 14 when the al-Atar family's three-storey building was hit, it said.It said the home of Nader Mahmoud Mohammed Al-Thom, where he lives with eight others, was attacked without warning on May 15.Israel did not immediately comment on the specific cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/un-agency-says-52-000-displaced-in-gaza-amnesty-wants-war-crimes-investigation-101621336954749.html
18-05-2021||World||Explained: Are Israel, Hamas committing war crimes in Gaza?||More than a week into their fourth war, Israel and the Hamas militant group already face allegations of possible war crimes in Gaza. Israel says Hamas is using Palestinian civilians as human shields, while critics say Israel is using disproportionate force.Who's right? It's hard to say, especially in the fog of battle.The firing of hundreds of imprecise rockets into Israel by Hamas and other Palestinian groups is fairly clear-cut. International law prohibits targeting civilians or using indiscriminate force in civilian areas. Rockets slamming into Tel Aviv apartment blocks is a clear violation.But in Gaza, where 2 million people are packed into a narrow coastal strip, the situation is far murkier. Both sides operate in dense, urban terrain because that's pretty much all there is. Because of the tight space and intense bombardments, there are few safe places for Gazans to go. A blockade imposed by Israel and Egypt after Hamas seized power in 2007 makes it virtually impossible to leave.As a grassroots movement, Hamas is deeply embedded in Palestinian society, with a political operation and charities separate from its secretive armed wing. While Israel and Western countries view Hamas as a terrorist organization, it is also Gaza’s de facto government, employing tens of thousands of people as civil servants and police. So just being connected to Hamas doesn’t mean someone is a combatant, and there are many in Gaza who oppose the group — and all are equally exposed with nowhere to run.Also Read | Israel-Palestine conflict: Why images of densely-populated Gaza blurry on Google Maps?Earlier this year, the International Criminal Court launched an investigation into possible war crimes committed by Israel and Palestinian militants during the last war, in 2014. Both sides already appear to be using the same tactics in this one.Here's a look at potential violations of international law.___Urban CombatPalestinian fighters are clearly operating in built-up residential areas and have positioned tunnels, rocket launchers and command and control infrastructure in close proximity to schools, mosques and homes.A prosecutor would have to prove that the combatants deliberately placed military assets near civilians to benefit from protections afforded to noncombatants during war.“If France invades Switzerland, the Swiss are not prohibited from defending Geneva, including by putting Swiss soldiers, Swiss artillery positions and so on inside Geneva,” said Marco Sassoli, professor at the Geneva Academy of International Humanitarian Law and Human Rights.Because international humanitarian law applies to all sides in any conflict, the French could fight in Geneva as well. But here the issue of proportionality applies on the big picture level: To continue the analogy, was the French assault on Geneva proportional to the provocation?___ProportionalityIsrael's critics often accuse it of the disproportionate use of force. They note that the undeclared nuclear power, with the region's most powerful military, is waging war on a militant group armed with little beyond long-range rockets, the majority of which are intercepted by Israel's anti-missile defenses. As in the past, the toll in the current conflict is dramatically lopsided, with at least 200 killed in Gaza, nearly half of them women and children, and 10 in Israel, all but one of them civilians.Israel argues it has the right to eliminate the threat from rockets, including command infrastructure connected to it. It says it makes every effort to avoid harming civilians, including by warning them ahead of some strikes. But Sassoli said that in past conflicts, Israel had a “quite large concept of what is a legitimate military objective.”Proportionality in international law also applies to individual attacks, but experts say proving a specific attack is disproportionate is extremely difficult. One would need to know what was targeted, what military advantage was gained, and whether it exceeded the harm inflicted on civilians and civilian property. That means that in practice, only the most extreme cases are likely to be prosecuted.On Saturday, Israel bombed a 12-story building housing the Gaza offices of The Associated Press and the Al-Jazeera news network, as well as dozens of private apartments and small businesses, including a law firm, a lab for blood testing and a TV production company.The Israeli military warned residents to evacuate the building, and no one was hurt.The military says there was a considerable Hamas presence in the building, including a command and control center, an intelligence unit and other infrastructure used to coordinate combat operations. But it has provided no evidence.AP President and CEO Gary Pruitt has said he was “shocked and horrified” by the attack, and AP has called for an independent investigation. “We have no indication of a Hamas presence in the building, nor were we warned of any such possible presence before the airstrike. This is something we check as best we can," Pruitt said Monday.Sassoli said it would be “completely unlawful” to attack a media center, but it's impossible to know whether the bombing was justified without knowing what the military was targeting.Strikes causing civilian casualties raise strong proportionality questions.On Sunday, Israel launched heavy airstrikes along a main thoroughfare in Gaza City, saying it was targeting Hamas' “underground military infrastructure.” The bombardment toppled three buildings and killed at least 42 people, including 16 women and 10 children. A day earlier, a strike in a crowded refugee camp killed 10 women and children. Israeli media said the military was aiming for senior Hamas officials meeting in the building.Also Read | Blinken says haven't seen Israeli evidence on AP Gaza building strike___Underground ArmyMembers of Hamas’ armed wing rarely if ever wear uniforms or identify themselves in public, and they go underground as soon as hostilities begin, along with the political leadership.The vast majority of Hamas supporters are not involved in fighting, which means they aren’t supposed to be targeted. The International Committee of the Red Cross defines a combatant as someone with a “continuous combat function” or those engaged in combat at the time they are targeted, a widely adopted definition.So even if a building were filled with die-hard Hamas supporters, experts say it wouldn’t be considered a legitimate target unless they were actively involved in combat operations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/explained-are-israel-hamas-committing-war-crimes-in-gaza-101621327473606.html
18-05-2021||World||Biden, Harris incomes dropped in 2020, tax returns show||President Joe Biden’s income fell dramatically to $607,336 in 2020 as he dropped lucrative speaking engagements to campaign for the White House, but he still earned enough to pay the higher tax rates he’s proposed for wealthy people.Biden and first lady Jill Biden paid $157,414 in federal income tax, making their federal income tax rate 25.9%, according to their 2020 tax return, which was obtained by Bloomberg News ahead of its Monday release by the White House. They paid an additional $28,794 in Delaware state taxes and $433 to Virginia, where the first lady teaches.The Bidens reported holding cash and investments totaling between $1.2 million and $2.88 million in a financial disclosure filed to the Office of Government Ethics ahead of Monday’s deadline for senior executive branch officials and also obtained by Bloomberg.Biden was consistently at the bottom of net worth rankings for members of Congress during his years in the Senate, but cashed in after the vice presidency, making more $16.5 million from 2017 to 2019, according to according to tax returns previously released by his presidential campaign.Vice President Kamala Harris and her husband Doug Emhoff are also releasing their tax returns and financial disclosures on Monday. In 2020, Harris and Emhoff had a federal adjusted gross income of $1,695,225, most of which came from Emhoff’s work at law firm DLA Piper, where he was a partner. They paid $621,893 in federal income tax, a rate of 36.7%.Higher TaxesBoth Biden and Harris would end up paying higher tax rates under Biden’s American Family Plan based on their incomes this year. Harris and Emhoff would also be subject to an increase in the capital gains rates since they earned more than $1 million. Both couples would benefit from efforts among some House Democrats to repeal the $10,000 limit on deductions for state and local taxes, or SALT. The Bidens paid $90,289 in SALT while Harris and her husband paid $280,421, amounts they could fully write off if Democrats succeed in restoring the tax break that was curbed by former President Donald Trump.In all, Biden will have released tax returns from 23 years, the White House said in a statement touting his continuation of “an almost uninterrupted tradition,” a knock against former President Donald Trump, who bucked tradition -- but not law -- by declining to release his. Ahead of the documents’ release, White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki told reporters their disclosure “should be expected by every president of the United States.”Trump claimed he couldn’t release his returns because he was under audit by the Internal Revenue Service, but the agency said he was free to do so. During the campaign, Biden played up his voluntary disclosures, releasing his and Harris’s 2020 tax returns just before the first presidential debate in September.The OGE clashed with Trump over the former president’s labyrinthine business empire, which included a hotel just blocks from the White House in a building leased by the federal government. The OGE hasn’t identified any conflicts of interest with Biden or Harris.More than $260,000 of the Bidens’ income came from annuities and pensions, and they received a combined $45,836 in social security benefits. Much of the rest of their income came from Jill Biden’s work at Northern Virginia Community College.Giving to CharityThe Bidens gave $30,704 -- 5% of their income -- to charity. The biggest check was $10,000 to the Beau Biden Foundation, named for their late son. They gave $5,000 to both the Food Bank of Delaware and the International Association of Fire Fighters Foundation. The IAFF union has been a longtime Biden ally and was first to endorse him after he entered the presidential race in 2019.The Bidens reported having as much as $1,780,000 in cash spread across four banks and two credit unions. That’s down from as much as $3.2 million reported in their disclosure filed in May 2020.They also had modest holdings in mutual funds worth between $26,000 and $215,000. They had liabilities of between $280,000 and $600,000, including a mortgage from 2013, when the Bidens refinanced a 30-year loan on their Greenville, Delaware, home at a 3.375% interest rate.There are between $53,000 and $270,000 in mutual fund holdings in the first lady’s name, including three investments in sector funds in health care, technology and utilities that she intends to divest out of an abundance of caution to avoid violating conflict of interest rules, a White House official said. An independent fund manager will put the money into diversified funds, the official said.The Bidens drew attention during the campaign for running their income from book deals and speaking engagements through their respective S-corporations. The Obama administration tried and failed to close what it saw as a loophole, which helped the Bidens avoid paying the 3.8% self-employment tax, saving them roughly $500,000 in their peak earning years of 2017 and 2018.But the president’s S-corporation, CelticCapri Corp., now holds only the intellectual property to his books and between $1,000 and $15,000. Biden pledged on his disclosure form that the business will remain dormant during his government service with one exception: if his publishers choose to reissue his books.The first lady’s S-corporation, Giacoppa Corp., had slightly more activity, paying her $200,000 in wages and $90,854 in business profits. Two publishers of her books, Simon & Schuster and Flatiron Books, both paid the S-corporation during 2020. She also reported $12,681 in W-2 wages from her job teaching English part-time at Northern Virginia Community College, down from previous years when she had a busier teaching schedule.Like the Bidens, Harris’s and Emhoff’s earnings were substantially down from 2019, when they had $3,018,127 in taxable income and paid $1,185,628 in taxes. The decrease in income is due in large part to Emhoff’s departure from DLA Piper -- he took a leave of absence in August after Harris joined the Democratic ticket and left the firm days after November’s election. On their tax return, Harris reported $293,902 in income from her 2019 book “The Truths We Hold: An American Journey” in addition to her U.S. Senate salary.The second couple’s reported assets are between $3.1 million and $7 million. Two of their largest investments are in Vanguard’s Value Index and Growth Index exchange traded funds, with between $250,000 and $500,000 in each.Emhoff has between $600,000 and $1.25 million in accounts tied to DLA Piper and an additional $250,000 to $500,000 in a capital account at Venable LLP, another law firm where he was a partner. He holds small amounts of a handful of sector funds well below the $50,000 threshold for a conflict of interest and will continue to review them, the White House official said.The couple gave $27,006 to charity, including $5,000 each to three of their alma maters, Howard University, the University of Southern California and California State University, Northridge.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/biden-harris-incomes-dropped-in-2020-tax-returns-show-101621327225567.html
18-05-2021||World||Pakistan PM Imran Khan appoints Moeed Yusuf as NSA||Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan’s close aide Moeed Yusuf, who is believed to have played a key role in recent back-channel contacts with India, has been formally appointed the country’s national security adviser. Since December 2019, Yusuf had served as special assistant to the prime minister on national security and strategic policy planning. Pakistan’s cabinet division issued a formal notification regarding Yusuf’s appointment on Monday. “The Prime Minister has been pleased to approve that Dr Moeed W Yusuf, Special Assistant to the Prime Minister on National Security and Strategic Policy Planning, shall function as National Security Adviser with the status of Federal Minister, with immediate effect,” the notification said. Before being made chairman of Pakistan’s Strategic Policy Planning Cell (SPPC), which comes under the National Security Division (NSD), Yusuf was associate vice president of the Asia Center at the United States Institute of Peace (USIP). Also Read | Ahead of FATF review, Pakistan announces new measures on terror financingHe is also the author of Brokering Peace in Nuclear Environments: US Crisis Management in South Asia. Yusuf is perceived as close to Khan and Pakistan’s military leadership, especially army chief Gen Qamar Bajwa. Reports have said he has played a crucial role in back-channel contacts between India and Pakistan in recent years that led to the two sides recommitting themselves to the 2003 ceasefire on the Line of Control (LoC) in February. After the two sides announced on February 25 that they would strictly adhere to the truce on the LoC, Yusuf had said in an audio statement that the agreement on the ceasefire was the outcome of “behind the scenes” contacts and “more roads will open” in future.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pakistan-pm-imran-khan-appoints-moeed-yusuf-as-nsa-101621332793394.html
18-05-2021||World||Pakistan denies presence of B.1.617 Covid variant, lacks specialised kits to detect||Pakistan has officially denied that the B.1.617 variant of the coronavirus has entered the country, despite experts noting that it does not have specialised kits to detect the highly contagious Covid-19 mutation.Research institutions in Pakistan have detected some "unknown variant" constituting 15 per cent of the country's total infections, however, the lack of specialised testing kits has hampered the identification process, writes FM Shakil for Asia Times.The Pakistan government imposed lockdowns in major parts of Punjab and Khyber Pakhtunkhwa provinces last week, which constitute the majority of Covid infections and deaths. They also called in the military to help civilian agencies implement public safety measures, Asia Times reported.Last week, health authorities in Thailand claimed to have found the B.1.617 variant in a Thai woman and her four-year-old son who had been in state quarantine since arriving from Pakistan.Reacting to the Thai claim, Asad Umar, chairman of the National Command and Operation Center (NCOC) claimed that it was 'out of the question' that the Thai national contracted the variant as it was "not present in the country".However, Dr Muhammad Iqbal Chaudhry, director at the International Centre for Chemical and Biological Sciences (ICCBS), University of Karachi, told Asia Times that the variant was not detected in Pakistan because the kits needed to detect the virus were not available.He said that the variant might already have infected the country given the close interaction of the two countries' diasporas in Gulf states.Chaudhary further informed that the number of tests did not conform with the country's population."The testing of symptomatic or asymptomatic patients brings a different ratio of positivity. If you were conducting tests on asymptomatic people like teachers or people in other essential services, the ratio would come down drastically as compared to the symptomatic population," he said, adding that government departments should increase the testing on asymptomatic patients to arrive at a factual ratio of positivity."The government's corona testing figures show a downward revision from 65,000 last month to 35,000 during the past couple of weeks. It may be a tactic to keep the pressure off the overwhelming of hospitals and minimize the oxygen requirements that was reaching the optimal level last month," Dr Muhammad Khizer Hayat, chairman of the Young Doctors Association, Punjab (YDAP), told Asia Times.Highlighting that the third wave of the pandemic had put huge pressure on oxygen supply and healthcare facilities in Pakistan, Khizer said that the government had not provided equipment at primary and secondary healthcare departments.Last week, the International Federation of the Red Cross (IFRC) last week warned that the "coronavirus was exploding in Asia and the Pacific with over 5.9 million new confirmed infections in the past two weeks, more than in all other regions combined."Pakistan is currently in the midst of a deadly third Covid-19 wave, which had witnessed a high number of deaths and increasing pressure on the healthcare infrastructure of the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pakistan-denies-presence-of-b-1-617-covid-variant-lacks-specialised-kits-to-detect-101621327853967.html
18-05-2021||World||New York governor Cuomo's Covid book deal was worth than $5 million||New York Governor Andrew Cuomo's contract with publishers for his book about dealing with the coronavirus pandemic was worth $5 million, according to tax documents released by his office to the media on Monday.Cuomo was initially lauded for his handling of a crippling coronavirus outbreak in New York, but praise turned to blame when media reported allegations of misconduct, including the under-reporting of nursing home deaths.He is also being investigated for alleged sexual harassment. The governor has denied any wrongdoing and said he was sorry if his behavior had made "people feel uncomfortable."Cuomo's book, "American Crisis: Leadership Lessons from the Covid-19 Pandemic", was published in October 2020 by The Crown Publishing Group, a subsidiary of Penguin Random House.According to the documents, the group paid him $3.12 last year, and will pay him the remainder in two installments worth around $2 million each in 2021 and 2022.The Wall Street Journal reported late in March that the New York state attorney general's office had subpoenaed dozens of officials in Cuomo's administration as part of the probe into sexual harassment accusations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/new-york-governor-cuomo-s-covid-book-deal-was-worth-than-5-million-101621327268610.html
18-05-2021||World||Vancouver care homes delayed declaring Covid-19 outbreak, 192 dead: Report||An investigation has revealed that at least 192 care home residents in Canada's Vancouver died of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) as the facilities deliberately did not declare outbreaks. The investigation has been carried out by South China Morning Post (SCMP).It said that the facilities did not declare the outbreaks when a "low risk" worker first contracted the virus. The numnber of those infected has now reached 1,000, the SCMP report claimed.Vancouver Coastal Health (VCH) and Fraser Health tried to withhold the data about the failure of its Covid-19 tackling strategy of enhanced surveillance or monitoring, the report further said. The data about the deaths and infection came out after the authorities were compelled to provide it by freedom of information requets, said SCMP.There have been 1,328,582 infections and 24,948 Covid-related deaths reported in the country since the pandemic began, news agency Reuters reported.In the recent weeks, the average number of cases have started falling in the country, which recorded its highest daily cases on April 17.Ontario, the country's most populous province, has extended its stay-at-home order for an additional two weeks to June 2, Premier Doug Ford announced last week.The surge is Covid-19 cases in Canada was largely driven by more easily transmitted coronavirus variants and a reopening that many health experts said happened too soon.Less than four per cent of Canada's adult population has been fully vaccinated against Covid-19. Prime Minister Justin Trudeau, who has promised that everyone who wants to can be fully vaccinated by September, last week spoke of a "one-dose summer" and a "two-dose fall" without explaining what that might look like.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/vancouver-care-homes-delayed-declaring-covid-19-outbreak-192-dead-report-101621325776140.html
18-05-2021||World||Biden pledges US support as COVAX faces shortfall of 140 million doses||The US will work with the WHO-backed COVAX facility and other partners for the equitable distribution of some 80 million Covid-19 vaccines from its stockpiles in line with scientific and public health data from around the world, President Joe Biden has said.The move comes at a time when COVAX, which signed advance agreements to procure hundreds of millions of doses for low-income countries, has been floundering because of a shortfall in supplies from the Serum Institute of India (SII) after India curtailed exports from March to cope with a devastating second wave of infections.People familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity that COVAX’s supply shortfall will be 140 million doses by the end of May, and if supplies from SII continue to be disrupted, this figure is estimated to rise to 190 million doses by the end of June.The US administration will also mount a multilateral effort with democracies to cope with the pandemic, and Biden said he expects to announce progress in these efforts at the G7 Summit to be hosted by the UK in June.Biden announced on Monday the US will share 20 million doses from its surplus stocks of Pfizer, Moderna and Johnson & Johnson vaccines by the end of June. This will be in addition to the earlier US commitment to share 60 million doses of the AstraZeneca vaccine with other countries.The announcement marked the first time the US has said it will share the three vaccines that are authorised for use in the country, and the move stems from the Biden administration’s belief that it will have enough doses to protect all Americans by June.The US is believed to currently have around 10 million doses of the AstraZeneca vaccine, which hasn’t yet been approved for use in the country, and the stockpile is expected to swell to 60 million doses by the end of June. The Biden administration has said these doses will be distributed only after the vaccine clears a safety review by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA).Explaining the procedure for the distribution of surplus vaccines, a White House fact-sheet said: “The United States will work with COVAX and other partners to ensure these vaccines are delivered in a way that is equitable and follows the science and public health data.”It added, “In the weeks ahead, working with the world’s democracies the Biden-Harris Administration will coordinate a multilateral effort to end the pandemic. We look forward to progress on this at the G7 Summit in June.”The fact-sheet said the US will send the 80 million doses to countries battling the pandemic “by the end of June”, and that donations from America’s excess supply will continue “as that supply is delivered to us”.The people cited above said greater clarity on how the US would share its surplus stocks is expected over the next few days. “We will know if the distribution will be through COVAX or the US will use the COVAX distribution model. We also have other issues to deal with, such as which countries will get the vaccines and how many doses,” said one of the people.COVAX is co-led by the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations, World Health Organization (WHO) and Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance. A spokesperson for Gavi said discussions were on with the Indian government and SII to find an “optimal solution” to the shortfall in vaccine supplies and to make up for lost time in administering vaccines.“We are in talks with the government of India and remain hopeful that deliveries will resume, even if in a much reduced capacity, in the third quarter,” the spokesperson said, adding these efforts are aimed at finding the best way forward for India and neighbouring countries.The “key immediate challenge” is getting adequate doses for Bangladesh, Nepal and other African countries to deliver the second dose to people who had received the first shot, the spokesperson said.Besides the US administration’s announcement, there were pledges for more than 20 million doses by other countries, including France (13 million), Spain (7.5 million), the United Arab Emirates and Sweden (one million doses each), the spokesperson said.The White House reiterated what Biden had said about the distribution of vaccines not being linked to securing favours from other countries, an apparent reference to similar efforts by China and Russia.“Just as in World War Two America was the arsenal of democracy, in the battle against the COVID-19 pandemic, our nation is going to be the arsenal of vaccines for the rest of the world. We’ll share these vaccines in the service of ending the pandemic everywhere. And we will not use our vaccines to secure favours from other countries,” Biden said.The US administration recently said it is looking at the joint production of the Johnson & Johnson vaccine in India and ways to help Indian manufacturers such as the Serum Institute of India (SII) to ramp up production to meet vaccine needs around the globe.The US administration is working on the Indian government’s list of raw materials and other supplies urgently needed to manufacture vaccines but American officials have cautioned this won’t be an easy task because of disruptions to global supply chains.The US has also diverted enough AstraZeneca manufacturing supplies from its own pre-existing orders to produce more than 20 million doses in India.The US is working with the private sector and other partners to expand global vaccine manufacturing and distribution and production of vital raw materials. The US International Development Finance Corporation has launched a global vaccine initiative that is targeting investments in multiple regions to address short-term requirements and intermediate-term efforts to ensure better preparedness for future health emergencies.This includes the Quad Vaccine Partnership to supply a billion doses of COVID-19 vaccines, including the Johnson & Johnson vaccine, by the end of 2022.The Biden administration has also backed a proposal first mooted by India and South Africa at the World Trade Organization (WTO) last year for waiving intellectual property protections for COVID-19 vaccines, though officials have warned that this will involve complex negotiations that could take months, if not years. The European Union, however, has not shown an inclination to endorse this move.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/will-work-with-covax-partners-to-distribute-80mn-covid-19-vaccines-prez-biden-101621320193171.html
18-05-2021||World||Head of Canada’s Covid vaccine roll-out accused of misconduct; new chief named||A Canadian armed forces veteran with over three decades of experience has been appointed to lead the country’s coronavirus vaccine roll-out, replacing another officer who was removed from his duties due to allegations of sexual misconduct.Krista Brodie is taking on the role of vice-president of vaccine logistics and operations with Public Health Agency of Canada (PHAC) after her predecessor Dany Fortin quit on May 15.Fortin departed on Friday, as a spokesperson for the department of national defence said he “left” the assignment “pending the results of a military investigation”.Fortin had been appointed to the crucial position by Prime Minister Justin Trudeau in November last year.His departure came as the armed forces are facing an institutional crisis over sexual misconduct allegations, resulting in the departure of the last two chiefs of defence staff.Jonathan Vance resigned in January this year amid allegations of impropriety of a sexual nature, and is facing an investigation. Vance’s successor Art McDonald stepped aside less than a month-and-a-half into his term as he also faces an investigation by the Canadian Forces National Investigation Service.Iain Stewart, president of the PHAC said Brodie “played a pivotal role in the vaccine roll-out as part of the initial deployment to the agency in November”, and her presence at the helm of the programme “allows for a seamless transition as she resumes her leadership role with the PHAC”.The PHAC partnered with the armed forces on November 27 last year to enhance its “planning, operations and logistical capacities through the addition of a team of military personnel”, the agency said.Brodie joined the armed forces in 1989 and has commanded platoons, a company and a battalion, and has been deployed to Croatia, Bosnia, and Afghanistan. She is serving with both NATO and the UN.Defence minister Harjit Sajjan described her as “an expert in logistics”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/head-of-canada-s-covid-vaccine-roll-out-accused-of-misconduct-new-chief-named-101621317912926.html
18-05-2021||World||Over 2,300 people in UK infected with Covid-19 strain found in India||The highly transmissible India variant of coronavirus has now been found in 86 districts across the U.K., Health Secretary Matt Hancock said, as he urged the public to stay cautious when meeting friends indoors.Also Read | Covaxin effective against coronavirus strains found in India, UKAuthorities have identified 2,323 cases of the variant as of Monday, with cases doubling in the past week in Bolton and Blackburn in northwestern England, Hancock told the House of Commons on Monday.With 86 local authorities confirmed to have five or more cases of the India variant, Hancock said it was vital that people get vaccinated. Most people with the strain known as B.1.617.2 in areas around Bolton had not received a shot, he said, and early evidence suggests vaccines still work against this variant.“The vaccination program can give us confidence but we must be alert to new variants that can jeopardize the advances that we’ve made,” Hancock said. “We must proceed with caution and care and bear down on the virus, in whatever form it attacks us.”An England-wide ban on households mixing indoors was relaxed Monday, and bars, restaurants and cafes were allowed to open to customers inside for the first time in months. The vaccine rollout is being altered to give over-50s and the most vulnerable their second dose more quickly to ensure they are protected as soon as possible.Prime Minister Boris Johnson has already warned that the final stage of lifting restrictions, due on June 21, may be delayed amid rising concerns over the new variant.Travel concernsHancock faced repeated questions in parliament over the reopening of international travel, given that many variants are brought into Britain from overseas.From Monday, Britons are able to travel to a number of countries on the so-called “green list” -- including Portugal and Israel -- with no need to quarantine on return. But there are concerns over a lack of clarity about the “amber list” of countries including France and Spain, which people are legally allowed to visit but have been told by ministers not to.Jeremy Hunt, a Conservative member of Parliament and former health secretary, called for “absolute clarity” on the rules. Hancock said the government advice was “very clear,” adding: “People should not travel to amber list countries for a holiday.”Hancock also came under fire for the timing of the U.K.’s decision to ban travel from India, amid concern from opposition MPs that a delay in April opened the doors to thousands of people who could have been infected with the variant.He insisted that the right decisions were taken at the time, saying Pakistan and Bangladesh were put on the “red list” two weeks earlier because the people arriving from these countries had higher infection rates than passengers landing from India.Hancock denied claims from several MPs that the real reason was because Johnson did not want to offend Indian prime minister Narendra Modi ahead of a planned trade visit. That trip was eventually canceled on April 19, the same day that India was put on the red list.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/over-2-300-people-in-uk-infected-with-covid-19-strain-found-in-india-101621313600873.html
18-05-2021||World||India calls for end to violence in Israel, Gaza||India has strongly condemned all acts of violence and provocation in the Gaza conflict and called for immediate de-escalation while urging Israel and Palestinian authorities to immediately resume dialogue to find a lasting solution.T S Tirumurti, India’s ambassador to the UN, outlined the country’s position during an open debate at the UN Security Council early on Monday, saying both sides should show extreme restraint and desist from actions that exacerbate tensions.India has found itself treading a cautious line as the conflict escalated in recent days, given its strong relations with both Israel and Arab states as well as its traditional support for a two-state solution, which was reiterated by Tirumurti.“The historic status quo at the holy places of Jerusalem, including Haram al-Sharif or Temple Mount, must be respected, Tirumurti said. Both sides should “refrain from attempts to unilaterally change the existing status quo, including in east Jerusalem and its neighbourhood,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/india-calls-for-end-to-violence-in-israel-gaza-101621304503523.html
18-05-2021||World||China to relax policy on birth but wary of risks||China will tread carefully in relaxing its birth policies for fear of harming social stability, even as the latest census highlights the urgency to address the country’s declining birth trends and ageing population, policy sources said.Expectations for birth policy reforms are rising after the 2020 census last week showed China’s population grew at its slowest in the last decade since the 1950s as births declined and ageing accelerated.A fertility rate of 1.3 children per woman in 2020, on par with ageing societies like Japan and Italy, underscores the risk for China: the world’s second-biggest economy may already be in irreversible population decline without having first accumulated the household wealth of G7 nations.Top leaders are working out a broader plan to cope with demographic challenges, the sources said, including more effective ways to encourage childbearing by easing financial burdens on couples, rather than simply removing birth curbs. Raising the retirement age, which Beijing said will be done gradually, will help slow a decline in the workforce and eventually ease pressures on the under-funded pension system, they said.China introduced a controversial “one-child policy” in the late 1970s but relaxed restrictions in 2016 to allow all couples to have two children as it tried to rebalance its rapidly-ageing population. The change, however, failed to halt declining births.The sources said they expect Beijing to encourage more childbearing under the current policy framework, before fully lifting birth restrictions over the next 3-5 years.Removing birth restrictions could have unintended consequences: a limited impact on city dwellers, who are reluctant to have more children due to high costs, while rural families could expand faster, adding to poverty and employment pressures, the sources, who are involved in policy discussions but not the final decision-making process, said.China aims to create at least 10 million new urban jobs a year, even as the working age population shrinks.Liu Huan, an adviser to the Chinese cabinet, said China’s main population challenge is not size but ageing, which will put heavy pressure on government finances. “It’s hard to resolve the birth problem given high housing, medical and education costs,” he said. “So we should have comprehensive policies.”Calls for changeIn April, The People’s Bank of China said in a working paper that China should “fully liberalise and vigorously encourage childbirth” to offset the economic impact, saying China should draw lessons from Japan’s “lost 20 years”.The proportion of people aged 65 and above hit 13.5% in 2020, up from 8.87% in 2010.But changes to the present policy will likely be gradual.Talent dividedDeepening rivalry with the US has raised the urgency for China to build a more innovation-driven economy. Under President Xi Jinping’s “dual circulation” strategy, China aims to ease dependence on overseas markets and technology.“We should make a transition from population dividend to talent dividend,” the first policy source said.The census showed improved education over the last decade. The proportion of people with university education rose to 15.5% from 8.9%, and average years of schooling for people aged 15 or above edged up to 9.9 years from 9.1 years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-to-relax-policy-on-birth-but-wary-of-risks-101621304171978.html
18-05-2021||World||US to share 20 million more Covid vaccine doses with world||The United States will share 20 million more Covid-19 vaccine doses with other countries, taking the total number of such shots to 80 million, President Joe Biden said on Monday."Over the next six weeks, the United States of America will send 80 million doses overseas. That represents 13 per cent of the vaccines produced by the US by the end of June. This will be more vaccine doses than any country has actually shared to date, five times more than any other country. More than Russia and China, which have donated 15 million doses," Biden told reporters at a news conference here."There's a lot of talk about Russia and China influencing the world with vaccines. We want to lead the world with this demonstration of our innovation, ingenuity, and the fundamental decency of the American people. Just as in World War II, America was the arsenal of democracy, in the battle against the Covid-19 pandemic, our nation is going to be the arsenal of vaccines for the rest of the world. We'll share these vaccines in the service of ending the pandemic everywhere," he said."We will not use our vaccines to secure favours from other countries," Biden said as he announced that in addition to the 60 million AstraZeneca vaccines, the US will give another 20 million Covid-19 approved vaccines."In March, we shared over four million doses of our AstraZeneca vaccine with Canada and Mexico. At the end of April, we announced that we would provide another 60 million doses of our AstraZeneca vaccine overseas," he said.AstraZeneca vaccine has not been authorized for use in the US yet, and it is awaiting safely clearance by the US Food and Drug Administration. "And today, I'm announcing that we'll also share US-authorized vaccines doses of Pfizer and Moderna and Johnson & Johnson, as they become available, with the rest of the world as well. These are vaccines that are authorized to be put in the arms of Americans," he said."And by the end of June, when we'll have taken delivery of enough of such vaccines to protect everyone in the United States. The US will share at least 20 million doses of those doses -- that extra supply -- with other countries," Biden said.Biden's announcement was welcomed by US lawmakers and Indian-American community leaders."While I'm glad to see the White House committing to sharing an additional 20 million Covid-19 vaccine doses with the world by the end of next month, this is only one step of the many more we need to take to reduce the threat of new mutant strains emerging from outbreaks abroad and causing another deadly surge here at home," said Indian-American Congressman Raja Krishnamoorthi."The outbreaks we're seeing in India and many other nations are a tragedy for all those facing them, and they're a threat to those in other countries who've already been vaccinated because of the risk they pose of producing vaccine-resistant mutations," he said."We need to further expand our support to the nations battling these outbreaks in order to save the millions of lives in danger today, and the millions more across the world, and in the United States, who could be endangered by new forms of the virus if these surges are allowed to fester," Krishnamoorthi said.White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki told reporters that a decision on which countries would receive these vaccine doses would be taken in due course.Indian-American community leader Ajay Bhutoria also welcomed Biden's announcement."The President is restoring America's leadership in the world by stepping by being a Leader in fight against Covid-19 and sharing vaccine doses with people around the world," he said. In a statement, he urged the President that the vaccines be sent to India, Nepal, Bangladesh, Brazil and other countries heavily impacted by the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-to-share-20-million-more-covid-vaccine-doses-with-world-101621302684318.html
18-05-2021||World||Beware of fake news on Covid: US surgeon general Vivek Murthy||US surgeon general Vivek Murthy has some advice for Indian-Americans and Indians as they deal with the devastating second wave of Covid-19 cases and wait for that dreaded phone call - watch out for misinformation in what you read, say or forward on social media platforms.“Misinformation is a virus itself, and it harms people, and it sometimes compels them to take actions that puts put them and other people at risk,” Murthy said in a virtual outreach to Indian-Americans on the dangers of misinformation as India battles its worst public health crisis.“In a pandemic, when you’re responding, information is power and if you can get the right information to people, they can take steps to protect themselves,” Murthy said, adding that the government and the private sector can make all the vaccine and masks they want, but “they will be of no value if people don’t want to use them because of misinformation”.The US and India have been hit hardest by Covid-19, with cases and deaths highest and second highest in the world, respectively. Murthy’s remarks were the first by a top US health official, who addressed the damage inflicted by misinformation on the response, especially by Americans, to the tragedy unfolding in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/beware-of-fake-news-on-covid-us-surgeon-general-vivek-murthy-101621302515453.html
18-05-2021||World||Former Trump aide Rudy Giuliani treated like 'drug kingpin', 'terrorist': Lawyers||Attorneys for Rudy Giuliani say a covert warrant that prosecutors obtained for his Apple iCloud account in November 2019 and a raid last month by agents who seized his electronic devices show they are treating him more like a drug kingpin or terrorist than a personal lawyer to former President Donald Trump.In a letter to a federal judge in Manhattan, the lawyers said that by secretly seizing Giuliani's cloud data files in 2019, investigators had improperly intruded on private communications with the president.The seized files, they wrote, likely included “material relating to the impending impeachment, the welfare of the country, and to national security.”They asked the judge to unseal affidavits in support of the Nov. 4, 2019, search warrant. Reviewing the affidavits, the lawyers said, will help them expand their argument “that this unilateral, secret review was illegal" and that any evidence gathered from it should be suppressed.The letter was sent to a Manhattan federal judge who is considering whether to appoint a “special master” to protect attorney-client privilege during a review of evidence gathered from raids on Giuliani’s residence and office in April.It was initially sent last week. A redacted version was made public Monday.A spokesperson for prosecutors declined comment.Federal prosecutors in New York are examining Giuliani’s interactions with Ukrainian figures and whether he violated a federal law that governs lobbying on behalf of foreign countries or entities without registering with the U.S. government.Any warrant issued in 2019 as part of that inquiry, or any other investigation, would have been approved by a neutral judge.Giuliani, a Republican and former New York City mayor who represented Trump in the special counsel's Russia investigation, has not been charged with a crime.He has said his activities in Ukraine were conducted on behalf of Trump. At the time, Giuliani was leading a campaign to press Ukraine for an investigation into Joe Biden and his son Hunter before the Democrat was elected president.Some Ukrainians who dealt with Giuliani as he campaigned against the Bidens were also looking for his help with matters of their own, including arranging meetings with U.S. officials or pressuring the Trump administration to oust the U.S. ambassador to Ukraine.Giuliani’s lawyers have argued that the early morning April raids on his home and office were not necessary because he had made clear in 2019 that he would answer any questions without restrictions, except for privileged matters, as long as his lawyers knew what subjects would be discussed.They said prosecutors instead “simply chose to treat a distinguished lawyer as if he was the head of a drug cartel or a terrorist, in order to create maximum prejudicial coverage of both Giuliani, and his most well known client – the former President of the United States.”In addition, the lawyers wrote, the original warrant for Giuliani's iCloud account contained a non-disclosure order based on an allegation made to a judge that Giuliani might destroy evidence or intimidate witnesses if he knew the warrant existed.“Such an allegation, on its face, strains credulity. It is not only false, but extremely damaging to Giuliani’s reputation. It is not supported by any credible facts and is contradicted by Giuliani’s efforts to provide information to the Government. We should be allowed to question the Government as to what basis it had, if any, to make that assertion,” they said.Giuliani attorney Robert Costello said prosecutors have another week to respond to the letter.In a separate letter dated last week but filed publicly Monday, lawyers for Victoria Toensing — a Washington lawyer whose phone was seized last month as part of the same investigation — asked a judge to order the Justice Department to return her cell phone as well as information collected from her iCloud and Google accounts from what they described as “covert warrants” in 2019.Given the breadth of the warrants, the lawyers wrote, “it is virtually certain that the materials the Government received included substantial privileged and confidential information concerning clients and criminal matters that have nothing to do with this investigation, privileged and confidential information concerning unrelated other matters that are actively before the DOJ, and privileged and confidential information that is the subject of the warrants.”The defense lawyers said the government has so far declined to reveal what materials a specialized filter team has acquired, reviewed or turned over to the investigative team.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/former-trump-aide-rudy-giuliani-treated-like-drug-kingpin-terrorist-lawyers-101621299623851.html
18-05-2021||World||Singapore counters World Economic Forum, says Shangri-La Dialogue 'still on'||The Shangri-La Dialogue planned for early June in Singapore is still planning to go ahead, after the World Economic Forum announced it would cancel this year’s event citing “tragic circumstances unfolding across geographies” and an uncertain travel outlook due to the pandemic.“We are encouraged by the positive response to invitations” to the event, the Singapore government said in a statement late Monday, adding those responses underscore “the strong commitment of government leaders in addressing security challenges even in the midst of the Covid-19 pandemic.”U.S. Secretary of Defense Lloyd Austin is expected to be among those attending the event, which focuses on global defense and security issues. The event’s organizer also confirmed that the World Economic Forum’s decision does not affect its plans.“We have a full line-up of ministers and other senior leaders from around the world planning to attend our event,” a spokeswoman for the event organizer said in a statement.These developments come as Singapore moves aggressively to stamp out the spread of the virus in the city. Authorities have banned in-person dining, told people who can to work from home and limited group sizes to two, in measures that will run through June 13, past the dates of the conference. The city-state also suspended most in-person learning at schools.The government said it would “continue to monitor the local and global Covid-19 situation and make the necessary adjustments” in light of the evolving situation. “In doing so, the health and safety of everyone will be the foremost consideration.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/singapore-counters-world-economic-forum-says-shangri-la-dialogue-still-on-101621298226818.html
18-05-2021||World||Covid-19: In California, people required to wear masks till June 15||California won’t lift its mask requirement until June 15 to give the public and businesses time to prepare and ensure cases stay low, the state health director said Monday, a decision that runs counter to many other states including Oregon and Washington that quickly aligned with last week's new federal guidelines.“This four-week period will give Californians time to prepare for this change, while we continue the relentless focus on delivering vaccines particularly to underserved communities and those that were hard hit throughout this pandemic,” Health and Human Services Secretary Dr. Mark Ghaly said.The timing aligns with California Gov. Gavin Newsom's earlier announcement that if cases remain low, the state will drop nearly all COVID-19 restrictions on June 15.The U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention altered its mask guidelines last week, saying it’s safe for fully vaccinated people to skip face coverings and social distancing in virtually all situations. The CDC guidelines say all people should still wear masks in crowded indoor locations such as airplanes, buses, hospitals and prisons.On May 3, California adopted the CDC’s earlier recommendation that people who are fully vaccinated do not need to wear a mask outdoors unless they are attending crowded gatherings. But the state says those people must wear masks indoors unless they are meeting with other vaccinated people.For unvaccinated people, face coverings are required outdoors any time physical distancing cant be maintained, including at such at things as parades, fairs, sports events and concerts.Businesses are expected to adhere to the state’s guidelines, Ghaly said. Both the CDC and state plan to keep the mask requirement in place for students for the rest of the calendar year.California business leaders including state Chamber of Commerce President and CEO Allan Zaremberg feared the differing federal and state mask requirements will sow confusion. He urged regulators to follow state health officials' lead, while his counterpart at the California Restaurant Association, Jot Condie, had hoped the state would follow the new CDC guidelines.Regardless, "Californians need to be aware that restaurants and other businesses must follow state and local guidelines, and we ask for the patience of our guests,” Condie said.It is difficult already for business owners to play “mask cop,” said John Kabateck, director of the California chapter of the National Federation of Independent Businesses: “We hope that they will not be vulnerable to penalties and scrutiny by state regulators or plaintiffs' attorneys because they’re trying to make sense of this labyrinth.”Still, Kabateck he was generally supportive of the state's decision.“If wearing masks for a little bit longer is an ounce of prevention that’s going to let mom-and-pops reopen their doors and get people back to work, that’s a step in the right direction,” he said.Major retailers including Walmart, Costco and Trader Joe’s sayi they won’t require vaccinated shoppers to wear a mask unless state or local laws say otherwise.San Diego retiree Rafael Sanchez, 64, called it “a scrambled egg message” and blamed his fellow Democrat Newsom for sending conflicting signals involving state rules and the governor's own behavior, an allusion to Newsom attending a fancy dinner party with lobbyists last fall while telling residents to avoid such gatherings.San Diego hair stylist Emily Follweiler, 27, was relieved masks will still be required indoors.“I think people should still keep wearing it and not have to rely on an honor system,” she said, a reference to customers only needing to say they have been fully vaccinated and not provide documentation.Los Angeles County was among those quickly saying they would follow the state lead. Supervisor Hilda Solis said the county will use the extra month to increase vaccination rates.So far 43% of residents 16 and over are fully vaccinated in the state's most populous county. “That means more than half of our adult population remains vulnerable,” Solis said.Wearing masks and social distancing remain “critically important strategies,” said Los Angeles County health director Barbara Ferrer.After becoming the epicenter for the virus in the U.S. at the start of the year, California has seen a precipitous decline. The state positivity rate among those tested has fallen below 1%, officials said Monday, and more than 34.5 million doses of vaccine have been administered as the state approaches the full reopening of its economy.Newsom, like the Biden administration, has been under pressure to ease mask restrictions as coronavirus cases ease nationwide. But the governor is facing a recall election this fall driven largely by frustration with his handling of the pandemic.Former San Diego Mayor Kevin Faulconer, businessman John Cox and reality TV personality and former Olympian Caitlyn Jenner, all Republicans seeking to replace Newsom, criticized the delay in removing mask requirements.Cox, who lost in a landslide to Newsom in 2018, said it was notable that the governor had Ghaly deliver the news about the mask mandate but last week the Democratic governor traveled the state to announce a litany of initiatives to spend an unprecedented budget surplus.“He wants to take credit for spending billions of dollars, but then goes into hiding when he has something unpopular to announce,” Cox said. "There’s a reason he’s hiding: he’s wrong.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid19-in-california-people-required-to-wear-masks-till-june-15-101621296832762.html
18-05-2021||World||US says it will keep providing assistance to India in fight against Covid||The United States will continue to provide a range of assistance to India, as its "important partner" continues to fight the Covid-19 pandemic, the White House said Monday.President Joe Biden, who has announced a USD 100 million worth of Covid-19 assistance to India, is deeply engaged with the assistance program, White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki told reporters at her daily news conference."The President is, of course, kept abreast of the Covid pandemic - how it's impacting different regions in the world, including our important partners in India. And he has been deeply engaged as we've made determinations about the type of relief and assistance that we can and should provide," Psaki said.Responding to a question on India's Covid-19 situation, Psaki said the United States will continue to work through how it can provide assistance to its important partner during this difficult time."We expect our assistance to be about USD 100 million. We've sent seven air shipments funded by the US Agency for International Development to India. The seventh flight, carrying additional oxygen concentrators via commercial shipping center, arrived today, and that obviously is critical for a number of the patients who have already been - are already battling Covid," she said."We will continue to provide a range of assistance. We will remain in touch about what the direct needs are on the ground, and hope that we can play a constructive role in reducing the numbers and bringing some relief to the people of India," Psaki said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-says-it-will-keep-providing-assistance-to-india-in-fight-against-covid-101621296919207.html
18-05-2021||World||WHO welcomes US donation of more Covid-19 vaccine doses||The head of the World Health Organization hailed news on Monday that US President Joe Biden will send at least 20 million more Covid-19 vaccine doses abroad by the end of June, marking the first time the United States is sharing vaccines authorised for domestic use."I welcome @POTUS & 's commitment to donate 80M #COVID19 vaccine doses to countries in need. Your commitment to global health is deeply appreciated! #COVAX partners stand ready to support equitable distribution. Solidarity is the only way to save lives & livelihoods everywhere," WHO Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus wrote on Twitter, referring to the WHO-backed COVAX vaccine distribution platform.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/who-welcomes-us-donation-of-more-covid-19-vaccine-doses-101621296441212.html
18-05-2021||World||France's Macron says to work with Jordan, Egypt leaders on Israel-Gaza ceasefire||France's president said on Monday he would work with Egypt's president and Jordan's king on a concrete proposal for a ceasefire and a possible path to discussions between Israel and the Palestinians."For me there needs to be a process for a ceasefire as quickly as possible and construction of a possible path to discussions between the different protagonists," Macron said at a news conference in Paris."In the coming days we have decided to have a discussion with President (Abdel Fattah) al-Sisi and the King of Jordan to be able together to see how we make a concrete proposal," he said without elaborating.Macron also said he would bring up the bombing by Israeli warplanes of a building that housed media outlets in Gaza when he speaks to Israel's prime minister in the next day or two.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/frances-macron-says-to-work-with-jordan-egypt-leaders-on-israel-gaza-ceasefire-101621294279182.html
18-05-2021||World||Under pressure, Biden works for ceasefire in Israel-Gaza violence||President Joe Biden and aides worked behind the scenes on Monday pressing for a ceasefire between Israel and Hamas amid what one source said was frustration over Israel's bombing of a Gaza building that housed some news organizations.Biden is facing growing pressure from lawmakers in his own Democratic Party to play a more vocal role, but U.S. officials say he and his team have opted for a quieter effort, talking with Israeli officials and U.S. allies in the Arab world."Our calculation at this point is that having those conversations behind the scenes ... is the most constructive approach we can take,” White House spokeswoman Jen Psaki told reporters.Biden spoke by phone with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, their third conversation since the violence erupted.The White House said Biden "encouraged Israel to make every effort to ensure the protection of innocent civilians" and that the two leaders "discussed progress in Israel’s military operations against Hamas and other terrorist groups in Gaza.""The president expressed his support for a ceasefire and discussed U.S. engagement with Egypt and other partners towards that end," a White House statement said.Supporters of the Biden administration demanded quicker action.“We’re really frustrated that the administration is not moving with more urgency,” said Logan Bayroff, spokesman for J Street, a liberal pro-Israel lobbying group.Twenty-eight senators - more than half of the Democratic caucus - issued a statement on Sunday calling for an immediate ceasefire "to prevent any further loss of civilian life and to prevent further escalation of conflict."Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer said on Monday he also wanted to see a ceasefire reached quickly.The Biden administration has increasingly relied on Egypt because of its influence with Hamas, whose rocket barrages into Israeli cities have prompted a fierce response from Israel and led to the biggest outbreak in hostilities since 2014.The administration would like to get on a glide path to de-escalation in coming days, leading to what a source familiar with the situation called a humanitarian pause in the violence to let relief assistance be delivered to Gaza and build a sustainable calm.The United States was believed to be preparing significant initiatives on Gaza humanitarian reconstruction, the source said.'IMPERATIVE TO RESTORE CALM'Biden has strongly defended Israel's right to defend itself because of the repeated rocket barrages from Hamas, which the United States views as a terrorist organization.But the administration did not support Israel's destruction of a Gaza high-rise that housed the Associated Press and Al Jazeera offices.The Biden administration viewed the strike on the building as a major strategic mistake, particularly because it turned some public opinion against Israel in the United States, the source said.The Gaza building attack has prompted some Democratic lawmakers to call foul.“The increasing loss of civilian lives of Palestinians and Israelis is unconscionable and unacceptable," said Democratic Representative Joaquin Castro. "I’m particularly disturbed by the disproportionate bombing of the Gaza Strip, including the deaths of at least 92 women and children and the targeting of the Associated Press building."Secretary of State Antony Blinken tweeted that he had spoken to United Arab Emirates Foreign Minister Abdullah bin Zayed Al Nahyan about the urgent need to halt the violence in Israel and the West Bank and Gaza."The loss of life from this crisis is deeply saddening, and it is imperative to restore calm and end this conflict," he said.The Biden administration has privately blamed the administration of Republican former President Donald Trump for breaking off communications with the Palestinian Authority in its zeal for a pro-Israel policy, believing that has contributed to instability.While Trump helped negotiate four normalization deals between Israel and Arab countries, he cut assistance to the Palestinians.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/under-pressure-biden-works-for-ceasefire-in-israel-gaza-violence-101621294290177.html
18-05-2021||World||Israeli strike puts sole Gaza Covid lab out of action: Report||The Palestinian enclave of Gaza's only Covid-19 laboratory is no longer able to carry out testing due to an Israeli air strike Monday on the clinic housing it, local authorities said.Al-Rimal clinic, in the town of the same name in the Gaza Strip, was partly destroyed, while the territory's health ministry and the office of Qatar's Red Crescent were also hit, officials said.Medical personnel at the ministry were wounded, some critically, the Hamas-run enclave's deputy health minister Yousef Abu al-Rish told reporters.Ministry spokesman Ashraf Qidra said the Israeli strikes "threaten to undermine the efforts of the health ministry in the face of the Covid pandemic".The raids "stopped screening tests... at the central laboratory", he added.Before the military escalation between Hamas and Israel a week ago, authorities in Gaza tested an average of some 1,600 people per day.The rate of positive tests was among the highest in the world, at 28 percent, and hospitals have been overwhelmed by patients.The enclave of two million residents has so far received 122,000 vaccine doses, more than half of which have not been administered, according to the World Health Organization.WHO says 103,000 people have tested positive for coronavirus in Gaza, of whom over 930 have died.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/israeli-strike-puts-sole-gaza-covid-lab-out-of-action-report-101621288790683.html
18-05-2021||World||Heavy rains hammer western Louisiana with more to come||Heavy rains in western Louisiana flooded streets, left cars stranded and heightened worries in a region hammered by two hurricanes last year and a deep freeze this winter.The National Weather Service said between five and 12 inches (12-30 centimeters) of rain had already fallen in parts of Calcasieu and Jefferson Davis parishes in western Louisiana, according to The Advocate. The American Press reported that some isolated areas could see as much as 20 inches (50 centimeters) of rain.Parts of southeastern Texas and western Louisiana were under flash flood warnings on Monday afternoon, according to the National Weather Service's Lake Charles office. Several inches (centimeters) of rain also feel on parts of Arkansas.The sheriff's office for Calcasieu parish was asking residents to stay off the roads and said they had already deployed high water vehicles and boats to assist residents, KPLC reported.Photos on local media showed water up to the doorsteps in one subdivision of Lake Charles while vehicles sought to navigate flooded streets in another part of town.The rainy weather is expected to continue in southern Louisiana through the middle of the week.Western Louisiana is still recovering from back-to-back hurricanes Laura and then Delta last year. And then, in February, frigid temperatures froze pipes and led to problems getting drinking water to area residents.The National Weather Service’s Little Rock office said on their Twitter feed, that parts of central Arkansas also had seen two to more than four inches (5-10 centimeters) of rain as of Monday morning. More rainfall is expected this week, the agency said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/heavy-rains-hammer-western-louisiana-with-more-to-come-101621287983461.html
18-05-2021||World||How Jerusalem’s Sheikh Jarrah became a global flashpoint||Israeli police in riot gear pushed a Palestinian protester to the ground in East Jerusalem’s Sheikh Jarrah neighbourhood, a moment captured on the smartphones of people looking on.“See what they’re doing! They’re beating up women!” Aya Khalaf, a Palestinian social media influencer, screamed in the background as she caught the May 9 incident on a live stream to her 187,000 Instagram followers.The scene is one of several shared on social media from the near-nightly confrontations between Israeli police and protesters against the expulsion of eight Palestinian families from the neighbourhood, which is claimed by Jewish settlers.The hashtag “#SaveSheikhJarrah” has gained momentum overseas, with British singer Dua Lipa among those expressing solidarity.In October last year, an Israeli court ruled in favour of settlers who say the Palestinian families are living on land that used to belong to Jews. Palestinians are appealing the decision at Israel’s Supreme Court.Anger over the proposed evictions was a key factor behind tensions in Jerusalem over the Muslim holy month of Ramzan, which last week escalated far beyond the holy city into the worst hostilities between Israel and the Palestinians for years.Islamist group Hamas launched a rocket assault on Israel, which hit back with multiple air and artillery strikes on Gaza. A week later, nearly 200 people have been killed in Gaza, including 58 children, and 10 people have been killed in Israel, two of them children.The settlers who filed the lawsuit for Sheikh Jarrah say they bought the land from two Jewish associations that purchased it at the end of the 19th century. Palestinians, who question the legitimacy of the settlers’ documents, have lived there since the 1950s.Israel captured East Jerusalem in a 1967 war, later annexing it in a move not recognised by most of the international community who regard settlements there as illegal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/how-jerusalem-s-sheikh-jarrah-became-a-global-flashpoint-101621286545001.html
18-05-2021||India||Gavi hopeful Serum Institute will resume supplies for COVAX by 3rd quarter||The backers of the COVAX facility, created to deliver Covid-19 vaccines to low-income countries, said on Tuesday that they are in contact with the Indian government and the Serum Institute of India (SII) on the resumption of vaccine supplies by the third quarter of the year.The WHO-backed COVAX facility’s plans to roll out hundreds of millions of doses of vaccines to scores of countries that have been hit by a slowdown in vaccine deliveries from the SII as the Indian government shifted focus to tackling a massive surge in Coronavirus disease (Covid-19) infections.SII CEO Adar Poonawalla said on Tuesday that the firm hopes to “start delivering [vaccines] to COVAX and other countries by end of this year”. He acknowledged that as part of global alliances, the SII had commitments to COVAX so that it could distribute vaccines around the world.Responding to the statement from SII’s CEO, a spokesperson for Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance, which is the co-lead for the COVAX facility, said, “We remain in regular and close contact with both the [Indian] government and SII, and remain hopeful that deliveries could resume, in reduced quantity, in the third quarter.”COVAX extends its “full support and friendship to the people of India, and to the government as it battles this latest terrible surge of the virus,” the spokesperson said.The spokesperson added that COVAX is hoping to conclude agreements with new suppliers and cooperate with countries with the largest supplies of vaccines so that doses can be delivered where they are needed the most.“COVAX’s first priority at the moment, alongside raising the necessary financial support from donors to fully fund the Gavi COVAX Advance Market Commitment (AMC) and procure 1.8 billion doses for lower income countries and finalising agreements with new suppliers, is to work with governments with the largest supplies to urgently deliver them, through COVAX, to countries where they can have an immediate impact in addressing this short-term supply disruption,” the spokesperson said.An agreement between Gavi and SII specified that the Indian manufacturer would supply 1.1 billion doses of either the AstraZeneca or the Novavax vaccine, with 200 million doses committed and the rest on option.COVAX had expected more than 100 million doses from SII between February and May, excluding supplies for India, but has received a little more than 18 million doses. COVAX’s total vaccine shortfall is estimated to be 140 million doses by the end of May.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gavi-hopeful-serum-institute-will-resume-supplies-for-covax-by-3rd-quarter-101621362014110.html
18-05-2021||India||‘It’s reckless’: Retd scientist moves SC against Pinarayi Vijayan’s oath event||A retired scientist on Tuesday moved the Supreme Court against Pinarayi Vijayan’s swearing-in ceremony later this week, asking the top court to stop the “reckless act” by the Left government in Kerala at a time the lockdown is being strictly enforced across the state and common man is forced to remain at home. “The politicians and those sitting in power have been repeatedly flouting lockdown norms and making farce appeals to people not to participate in their functions and seeking physical distancing, which is a clear instance of ‘the fence grazing the crops’, which warrants a positive interference of this Court,” M Shajahan, a retired scientist and a public policy activist said in a petition filed in the top court.Pinarayi Vijayan is scheduled to be sworn-in as chief minister on Thursday, the first in 40 years to get a second consecutive term. He has planned the ceremony at Thiruvananthapuram’s central stadium on Thursday and relaxed the rule that bars public gatherings of more than 50 people. The state government intends to accommodate nearly 500 guests at the venue.Pinarayi Vijayan has rejected criticism that the event could spread the coronavirus disease, saying 500 was not such a huge number in a stadium which has a capacity of 40,000. Besides, he has argued, all participants will have to carry Covid-negative reports.M Shajahan’s petition drafted by advocate Usha Nandini called it a reckless act.“The reckless act of conducting the public swearing-in ceremony by the Government of Kerala in violation of the very same law and protocols, which it forcibly enforces on the public, is a clear abuse of power and would only result is further spread of the dreaded disease, putting the life of the people of Kerala in jeopardy.”The petitioner demanded the ceremony be called off or allow it at Raj Bhavan with not more than 75 people in attendance.Covid-19 cases in the state are peaking with the state reporting nearly 50,000 cases daily. To arrest the surge in infections, a triple lockdown is in place till May 23 in four districts including Thiruvananthapuram, the venue for the swearing-in ceremony. “The Government of Kerala which on one end is enforcing lockdowns and forcing common public to confine themselves to the four walls of their homes, giving up their livelihood and other pleasures, is on the other hand spending huge amounts from the State Exchequer, for organizing a super spreader public event to show its strength and celebrate its victory in the recently held election,” the petition added.This is the second time in a week the government has relaxed restrictions to accommodate large gatherings. On May 14, 300 persons were allowed to attend the homage ceremony of former Kerala minister KR Gowri Amma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/its-reckless-retd-scientist-moves-sc-against-pinarayi-vijayan-s-oath-event-101621361774570.html
18-05-2021||India||Data reveals Karnataka Police lost almost one cop daily to 2nd wave of Covid-19 pandemic||In 43 days between April 1 to May 13, amid the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic, Karnataka Police lost 41 personnel to the viral infection, documents accessed by Hindustan Times stated. The latest among the deaths in the force is a 28-year-old police sub-inspector who was seven months pregnant. Shamili, a police inspector attached to the Dakshina Kannada police department died on Tuesday while undergoing treatment for Covid-19. According to the Superintendent of Police, Rishikesh Sonwane, she was undergoing treatment at the RM Jalappa Hospital in Kolar. “She was seven months pregnant. Due to pregnancy, she was not vaccinated,” he said. Shamili was the youngest police officer to die from Covid-19 in the second wave. A closer look at the document shows that in the second wave, out of the 41 police officials who died, four were under the age of 35 and 27 of them didn’t have any comorbidities. According to the internal document of the police department, a copy which is available with Hindustan Times, 4,203 policemen contracted the virus in 41 days, which comes to about 4% of the total police force. Out of these 4,203 policemen, 1,508 are currently infected with the virus. In the second wave, a maximum number of Covid-19 cases among police personnel were reported in Bengaluru (1,439), followed by Mysuru (257) and Tumkur (216). Ballari, Kalburgi, Hassan police departments reported 148, 140 and 123 cases respectively. Bengaluru Police reported the highest number of deaths. Out of the 41 deaths among police personnel, 13 were reported in Bengaluru. State police chief, DG and IGP Praveen Sood told HT that because of vaccination, they have been able to control the number of cases and fatalities in the second wave. “In the first last year, we lost 103 police officials and more than 9,600 policemen and women were infected. However, this time, we have made an effort to ensure that the entire department is vaccinated,” said Sood. According to Sood, out of the 87,917 police officials in the state 96% (84,917 police personnel) have received the first dose of the vaccine, while 82% (72,648 police personnel) have received the second dose. Out of the remaining 2,993, 2,557 are medically unfit for vaccination and 436 personnel are yet to get the vaccine. The state police chief admitted that among those who are yet to receive the vaccine, some have reservations. “Some don’t have to get the vaccination because of the forwards they have seen on the social media. We are trying to convince them to get the vaccine at the earliest,” he added. On Tuesday, paying tribute to the 28-year-old sub-inspector, Sood tweeted, “Youngest member of the police family to succumb to Covid. 28-year-old, PSI Shamili of Kolar, attached to DK district lost her battle with COVID. May her soul rest in peace. But it could be any of us. Please cooperate with the police, stay home and stay safe.” At the same time, data released by the Indian Medical Association (IMA) said that the state has lost eight doctors to Covid-19 during the second wave of the pandemic in the state. The IMA said on Tuesday that the country lost 270 doctors in the second wave of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, which has been more deadly and fast-spreading. Police personnel who died due to Covid-19First wave: 9,600 infections, 103 deaths. Second wave: 4,203 infections, 41 deaths. Vaccination The total strength of the police department: 87,917 Police personnel who received the first dose: 84,917 (96%) Police personnel who received the second dose: 72,648 (82%) Police personnel who haven’t got the vaccine: 2,993 Police personnel who are medically unfit for vaccines: 2,557 out of 2,993||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/data-reveals-karnataka-police-lost-almost-one-cop-daily-to-2nd-wave-of-covid-19-pandemic-101621361535195.html
18-05-2021||India||No new Covid strain detected here, Singapore health ministry counters Kejriwal||Singapore on Tuesday dismissed Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s assertion about a new Coronavirus strain being detected in that country, and said the variant prevalent in many Covid-19 cases in recent weeks was the “B.1.617.2 variant, which originated in India”.Kejriwal had requested the Centre to immediately suspend flights from Singapore because of an alleged new strain, which was suspected to affect children, being detected in that country. He contended that the alleged new strain could lead to a third wave of infections in India and said the Centre should focus on identifying vaccines for children.A statement issued by Singapore’s health ministry cited Indian media reports quoting Kejriwal and said: “There is no truth whatsoever in the assertions found within the reports.”The statement added: “There is no ‘Singapore variant’. The strain that is prevalent in many of the Covid-19 cases in recent weeks is the B.1.617.2 variant, which originated in India.There is no truth in the assertion that there is a new COVID strain in Singapore. Phylogenetic testing has shown that the B.1.617.2 variant is the prevalent strain in many of the COVID cases, including in children, in recent weeks in Singapore.https://t.co/uz0mNPNxlE https://t.co/Vyj7gyyzvJ“Phylogenetic testing has shown this B.1.617.2 variant to be associated with several clusters in Singapore.”Union aviation minister Hardeep Puri had responded to Kejriwal’s remarks by saying that there were no regular flights between India and Singapore, except for a few under the Vande Bharat mission to repatriate Indian nationals.Kejriwal had said in a tweet in Hindi: “The new form of Covid-19 that has come to Singapore is being said to be extremely dangerous for children. In India, it may come as a third wave. My appeal to the Central government: 1. Air services with Singapore be cancelled with immediate effect 2. Priority on vaccine options should be worked out for children too.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-new-covid-strain-detected-here-singapore-health-ministry-counters-kejriwal-101621359676398.html
18-05-2021||India||Less than 2% population affected by Covid-19, 98% still vulnerable: Govt||Less than 2 per cent of the total population in India has been affected by Covid-19 so far and 98 per cent of the population is still susceptible or vulnerable to the infection, the government said on Tuesday."Despite the high number of cases reported so far, we have been able to contain the spread to under 2 pc of population," said Health Ministry Joint Secretary Lav Agarwal.The government said that of the total population in India, 1.8 per cent has been affected by Covid-19 so far and 98 per cent of the population is still susceptible or vulnerable to the infection.Despite the high number of cases reported so far, we have been able to contain the spread to under 2% of the population. We can not let our guards down, hence continued focus on containment is critical: Joint Secretary, @MoHFW_INDIA #IndiaFightsCorona #Unite2FightCorona pic.twitter.com/cDDazlPjnzThe government said a continued decline has been noted in active cases in the last 15 days. From 17.13 per cent of the total caseload reported on May 3, it has reduced to 13.3 per cent, it added.Eight states have more then 1 lakh active Covid-19 cases and 22 states have more than 15 per cent case positivity, it said.Maharashtra, UP, Delhi, Bihar, MP and Chhattisgath have shown a decline in Covid-19 cases and a decline in positivity, the government said.Maharashtra, UP, Delhi, Bihar, MP and Chhattisgarh have shown a decline in cases and a decline in positivity, it added.There are 199 districts showing a continued decline in Covid-19 cases and positivity since the last two weeks, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/less-than-2-population-affected-by-covid-19-98-still-vulnerable-govt-101621357564622.html
18-05-2021||India||'At least partially and probably quite': Fauci on Covid vaccine efficacy against variant from India||Top US infectious disease expert Dr Anthony Fauci on Tuesday said that the vaccines currently being used by the United States would be “at least partially and probably quite protective” against coronavirus variants first detected in India. Citing recent studies published in medical journals, Dr Fauci, the director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, said that the results are very encouraging regarding protection against the known SARS-CoV-2 variants.“The modest neutralization resistance of B.1.617.1 variant to vaccine-elicited antibodies suggests that current vaccines will be protective,” according to the slide shared by the White House Covid-19 response team as Fauci spoke.“The spike proteins of SARS-CoV-2 B.1.617 and B.1.618 variants identified in India provide partial resistance to vaccine-elicited and therapeutic monoclonal antibodies,” the presentation further read.The United States is using vaccines developed by Pfizer-BioNTech and Moderna, both based on mRNA technology. Health experts have been closely following the studies regarding the efficacy of Covid-19 vaccines against variants of concern.Also Read | Won't deviate from lockdown plans: UK PM Boris Johnson on B1.617.2 variant of Covid-19Pfizer-BioNTech Covid-19 vaccine showed that it can neutralise SARS-CoV-2 dominant variants which remain susceptible to neutralising antibodies, said Fauci. He added that most individuals vaccinated with Moderna’s Covid-19 vaccine maintained binding and functional antibodies against a wide range of variants.“This is just another example of the scientific data accruing, and as I have shown you here...indicating another very strong reason why we should be vaccinated,” said Dr Fauci.The B.1.617 variant, believed to be driving the deadly second wave of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, is the fourth variant that has been classified as a variant of global concern. India on Monday registered 263,533 cases of Covid-19 and 4,329 related deaths, the Union ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) dashboard showed on Tuesday morning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vaccines-to-be-at-least-partially-protective-against-variant-from-india-fauci-101621355941299.html
18-05-2021||India||Haryana Congress seeks CM Khattar's apology over alleged lathhicharge on farmers in Hisar||Haryana's main opposition Congress Tuesday demanded Manohar Lal Khattar's apology over the alleged police lathicharge on farmers in Hisar on Sunday when they protested against the Chief Minister during the inauguration of a hospital.They also alleged that the chief minister inaugurated the dedicated Covid-19 hospital in the presence of a large number of people, in violation of laid down protocols to curb the spread of coronavirus.In a statement, Haryana Congress president Kumari Selja said that Congress demands that the chief minister apologise for the 'lathicharge'.Many other Congress leaders from the state also hit out at the Khattar government over the Hisar incident in which violent clashes took place when the protesting farmers tried to march towards the venue where Khattar had gone to inaugurate the hospital.Many people including over 20 police personnel were injured in the incident.The police had used force when farmers tried to storm their way towards the venue when they were stopped.After the incident on Sunday, Selja had said that "rather than rolling back the farm laws, the BJP-JJP government is raining lathis on farmers".She had also alleged that the chief minister inaugurated the hospital in the presence of a large number of people, putting them at "risk" by not following the Covid protocols.On Tuesday, she said that Congress leaders submitted memorandums through the respective Deputy Commissioners addressed to the Governor.Through the memorandums, it has been brought to the Governor’s notice that there was alleged violation of Covid-related guidelines as well as that of Section 144 CrPC during the Chief Minister's visit to inauguration event in Hisar.The Congress, while referring to the presence of “large” number of people during the inauguration event of the hospital, has sought appropriate action in the matter.She alleged that if those at the helm do not follow Covid guidelines, when lockdown and Section 144 CrPC have been imposed in the state to check the spread of Covid-19, how common people can be expected to follow the rules?Selja said farmers have been protesting near various border points of Delhi against the Centre's new farm laws for the past six months, “but neither the Centre nor the state government is listening to them”.She said when they learnt about Khattar's visit to Hisar on Sunday they gathered there for a peaceful protest, but they got police lathis and tear gas shells in return.Several farmers, including women farmers, sustained injuries “due to the ruthless action taken by the police at the behest of the BJP-JJP government”, she alleged.Senior Haryana Congress leaders on Tuesday also said the chief minister's “silence” even after two days of the Hisar incident “where women were beaten up mercilessly during lathicharge shows how sensitive he is towards the plight of women”.In a joint statement, former Education Minister and sitting MLA Geeta Bhukkal, MLA Shakuntala Khatak, Congress Legislature Party Chief whip Bharat Bhushan Batra and another senior leader Aftab Ahmed claimed the Hisar incident “has exposed the true face of the BJP”.“The Chief Minister was seen shedding crocodile tears in the Vidhan Sabha in the last session when a tractor was being pulled in a symbolic manner by a few women Congress MLAs.“At that time the chief minister's advisors also publicized the episode and launched a media blitz to show how emotional and sensitive the Chief Minister is toward the women. The CM must explain his silence when women were attacked, sustained head injuries, tear gas shells were fired. Where are his tears now,” Bhukkal asked.Khattar and other BJP leaders had in March slammed the Congress after former Chief Minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda rode a tractor being pulled by some of the opposition party's women legislators to protest the rise in fuel prices.Khattar had expressed his anguish and said in the Assembly, “This treatment to women MLAs was worse than bonded labour.”Shakuntala Khatak said when she was pulling the tractor in a symbolic way, the Chief Minister had said that he was deeply pained.“The State Women's Commission went a step further and had also issued a notice to the Leader of Opposition (Bhupinder Singh Hooda). Now the whole country is watching what happened in Hisar. The Chief Minister is not shedding any tears now, the Women's Commission is not giving any notice to anyone. Why this double character,” she questioned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/haryana-congress-seeks-cm-khattar-s-apology-over-alleged-lathhicharge-on-farmers-in-hisar-101621355374409.html
18-05-2021||India||‘Ritul Saikia in our custody’: ULFA-I chief confirms abduction of ONGC engineer||GUWAHATI: The banned United Liberation Front of Asom-Independent (ULFA-I) confirmed on Tuesday that Ritul Saikia, an employee of Oil and Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC) abducted last month was in their custody. Ritul Saikia, a junior engineer assistant, was one of three ONGC employees to have been abducted from an ONGC rig site in Assam’s Sivasagar district on April 21.The other two, Mohini Mohan Gogoi (junior engineer assistant) and Alakesh Saikia (junior technician), were rescued by security forces three days after an operation in Nagaland, close to the Indo-Myanmar border. There had, however, been no clarity on Ritul Saikia and the insurgent group had claimed after the gunfight with security forces that it had released all three.On Tuesday, ULFA-I commander-in-chief Paresh Baruah came around to acknowledge that this wasn’t the case. He said Saikia is being held by the organization and he is being taken care of. “We will have to talk with ONGC and will surely release him after that. I would like to assure Saikia’s family and well-wishers that no harm will come to him,” Baruah told DY365, an Assamese TV channel.Baruah’s confirmation that Ritul Saikia was in ULFA-I’s custody came hours after Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma visited the ONGC employee’s home at Titabar in Jorhat district and assured them that all efforts were underway to secure his release. “As per our information, Saikia is in ULFA-I custody in Myanmar, close to the Indo-Myanmar border. We are taking all possible steps to bring him back without any harm,” Sarma told journalists after meeting Saikia’s family. Last week, ULFA-I issued a seven-point list of demands to ONGC, Oil India Limited (OIL) and Indian Oil Corporation Limited (IOCL) which included the demand for 95% reservation in jobs for indigenous residents of Assam in the three public sector oil companies.On Saturday, the banned outfit announced a three-month unilateral ceasefire and suspension of all operations citing the Covid19 pandemic. “The ceasefire announcement is a welcome step, but that doesn’t mean government action against the outfit will stop. The ceasefire is a move from their side without framing any ground rules. For a formal ceasefire, the outfit should shun violence and join peace talks,” Sarma said on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ritul-saikia-in-our-custody-ulfa-i-chief-confirms-abduction-of-ongc-engineer-101621356734351.html
18-05-2021||India||Over 80 railway hospitals to get oxygen plants to tide over Covid-19 crisis||All 86 of Indian Railways’ Covid-19 hospitals will soon get their oxygen plants set up, the railway ministry said in a statement on Tuesday.While four oxygen plants are already functional, 52 are sanctioned and 30 are under various stages of processing, the ministry said. “All Railway Covid Hospitals to be equipped with Oxygen Plants,” it added.So far, around 2,000 railway employees have lost their lives to Covid-19 with about 1,000 getting infected daily, according to the ministry. So far, around 4.32 lakh rail employees have been vaccinated.General Managers of zonal railways have been delegated further powers, up to ₹2 crores in each case to sanction oxygen generation plants, it said.The ministry also said the total number of beds for Covid-19 treatment has been increased from 2,539 to 6,972. The ICU beds in Covid-19 hospitals have been increased from 273 to 573 while invasive ventilators have been added and their number has been increased from 62 to 296.“Constant efforts are being made to add critical medical equipment like BIPAP machines, oxygen concentrators, oxygen cylinders, etc, across railway hospitals. Railways have also issued instructions that Covid affected employees may be admitted to empanelled hospitals on a referral basis as per the need,” the ministry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-80-railway-hospitals-to-get-oxygen-plants-to-tide-over-covid-19-crisis-101621355414361.html
18-05-2021||India||Haryana man who performed last rites of over 300 Covid victims succumbs to virus||An official of the Hisar Municipal Corporation, who ensured a dignified funeral for over 300 Covid-19 victims ever since the outbreak of the pandemic, succumbed to the disease barely two days after testing positive, a spokesperson said on Tuesday.Praveen Kumar, 43, died at a private hospital on Monday night, the spokesperson of the municipal corporation said.Kumar was the head of the team formed by the municipal corporation to cremate the bodies of coronavirus patients."He had cremated over 300 Covid bodies so far since last year. He tested positive two days ago. He was admitted to a private hospital, where his oxygen level kept dipping due to which he died,” the spokesperson said.Kumar was also the president of Municipal Corporation Safai Karamchari Union here.His last rites were performed at a cremation ground in Rishi Nagar here on Tuesday as per the Covid guidelines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/haryana-man-who-performed-last-rites-of-over-300-covid-victims-succumbs-to-virus-101621354323108.html
18-05-2021||India||Is apprehension of death due to Covid ground for bail? SC to hear next week||The Supreme Court will hear a petition next week on whether apprehension of death due to Covid-19 can be a ground to grant anticipatory bail to any accused. The Uttar Pradesh government has challenged an Allahabad High Court verdict granting anticipatory bail to an alleged conman till January 2022 on the ground that an accused needs to be protected till the threat of novel coronavirus to his life is minimised or eradicated.The UP government’s petition in the top court said the high court ruling granting an arrest shield to the accused in this case creates a dangerous precedent for similarly-placed accused. The government argued that the accused was not Covid-19 positive but has been allowed to roam free on mere apprehension of death if he contracts the infection in jail.Solicitor General Tushar Mehta mentioned the petition before a vacation bench of Justices Vineet Saran and BR Gavai for urgent listing. Mehta raised an apprehension that the order could be used as a precedent for other accused to claim similar relief. The bench agreed to hear the petition next week.The order under challenge was passed on May 10 on an application moved by Prateek Jain, who is accused of cheating and forgery in a case registered at Sihani Gate police station in Ghaziabad. The accused sought protection from arrest claiming that once he surrendered, his life would be in peril in view of the overcrowding of jails and lack of medical facilities in jail to preserve his life.The high court granted his request. A single-judge bench of Justice Siddharth said, “extraordinary times require extraordinary remedy and desperate times require remedial remedy.”The bench observed, “The apprehension of an accused being infected with novel coronavirus before and after his arrest and the possibility of his spreading the same while coming into contact with the police, court and jail personnel or vice-versa can be considered to be a valid ground for grant of anticipatory bail to an accused.” The high court further held that in cases where the charge-sheet has been submitted or warrants issued against an accused, “such an accused is required to be protected till the threat of novel coronavirus to his life is minimized or eradicated and normal functioning of the courts are restored.”The high court allowed the accused to remain on anticipatory bail till January 3, 2022, considering the news of a possible third wave of infections by September this year.The UP government’s petition argues this was wrong because it gives a go-by to established parameters for grant of anticipatory bail such as the nature and gravity of accusation, the criminal antecedent of the applicant, the possibility of fleeing from justice and whether the accusation has been made for injuring and humiliating the applicant by getting him arrested. Instead, the UP government said, the high court judge was of the view that “only when the accused would be alive, he would be subjected to the normal procedure of law of arrest, bail and trial.”The high court, however, set bail conditions that required him not to leave or change his residence till the conclusion of the trial, remain physically present in court on dates fixed for evidence and when the witnesses are present in court, surrender his passport and not hamper the trial or investigation of the case by influencing witnesses or tampering with evidence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/is-apprehension-of-death-due-to-covid-ground-for-bail-sc-to-hear-next-week-101621352416662.html
18-05-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Another cyclone may form over Bay of Bengal, warns IMD and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘Another cyclone likely to form over Bay of Bengal as low-pressure area’: IMDAfter cyclone Tauktae, another cyclone could be brewing with a low-pressure area likely to form over the east-central Bay of Bengal around May 23 that might intensify further into a depression and a cyclone, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has warned. If a cyclone forms, it will be called ‘Yaas’. Read moreSerum CEO Adar Poonawalla defends vaccine export, says ‘daily cases were at an all-time low’Serum Institute of India (SII) CEO Adar Poonawalla on Tuesday defended the export of Covid-19 vaccines before the second wave of pandemic ravaged the country. Read moreYSR Congress MP who accused cops of torture shifted to military hospital, examinedYSR Congress lawmaker Kanumuri Raghurama Krishnam Raju, arrested last week on charges of sedition, was shifted to the military hospital in Secunderabad around Monday midnight. Read moreEight states have more than 100,000 active Covid-19 cases, testing increased consistently: CentreThe Centre on Tuesday said that at present eight states have more than 100,000 active cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The government also said that the number of tests conducted for Covid-19 in India has witnessed a “consistent increase.” Read moreAB de Villiers will not come out of international retirement, confirms Cricket South AfricaCricket South Africa (CSA) on Tuesday announced that former captain AB de Villiers will not come out of his international retirement ahead of the upcoming T20 World Cup in India. Read moreThe future of work is hybrid, and that’s what we are working towards: Cisco’s Pankaj AgrawalLast year we were taken out of our office spaces and locked up at home while the world struggled through the Covid-19 pandemic. For the tech-savvy and the not-so-tech-savvy, both, the major chunk of our daily work moved online - it became all about adapting or perishing. Read moreArjun says Anshula sacrificed a lot: 'Not easy to live without parents around'Arjun Kapoor has said that his sister Anshula has sacrificed a lot in her life. In a recent interview, Arjun was asked about the one person in his life who has made his dreams their own. Read moreAdline Castelino or Anushka Sharma? Who wore the gold Saisha Shinde gown betterAdline Castelino, the Indian model and Miss Diva Universe 2020, was dubbed the third runner-up in the Miss Universe beauty pageant after competing with participants from 73 countries. Read moreWatch| 'Big, big problem': Top doctor on plasma therapy & mutant viruses | Covid||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-another-cyclone-may-form-over-bay-of-bengal-warns-imd-and-all-the-latest-news-101621349117885.html
18-05-2021||India||Serum CEO Adar Poonawalla defends vaccine export, says ‘daily cases were at an all-time low’||Serum Institute of India (SII) CEO Adar Poonawalla on Tuesday defended the export of Covid-19 vaccines before the second wave of pandemic ravaged the country. Poonawalla said in a statement that the company exported the vaccines when the number of daily caseloads in India were at an all-time low and when health experts believed that the nation was “turning the tide on the pandemic.”The Centre has been facing criticism for its vaccine strategy as Opposition parties have asked why Covid-19 vaccines, critical in the fight against the pandemic, were exported in the early days of the vaccination drive. Posters were pasted across the national capital region questioning Prime Minister Narendra Modi over vaccine shortage in the country.“Modiji hamare bachhon ki vaccine videsh kyun bhej diya (Modi ji, why did you send the vaccines meant for our children to foreign countries?)” the posters read, after which 25 were arrested by Delhi Police in connection with those posters.Poonawalla said that the government extended support to many countries facing an acute crisis and were in desperate need of help. He argued that such “corporation between countries” forms the basis of India getting access to technology and aid for healthcare. “Today, it is this reciprocity, where India has helped other countries with the supply of HCQ and vaccine exports, that has in turn led to support from other countries,” Poonawalla said.The SII CEO further stated that the pandemic is not limited by geographical and political boundaries and “[w]e will not be safe till” the virus is defeated at a global scale. US President Joe Biden also spoke on similar lines Monday while announcing vaccine exports by June end. However, the United States has already administered at least one of Covid-19 vaccines to nearly 60% of the US adult population.Poonawalla asserted that SII has never exported vaccines at the cost of the people in India and remains committed to doing everything they can to support the vaccination drive in the country. But he clarified, citing several factors and challenges involved, that a vaccination drive for such a large population cannot be complete within 2-3 months.“That said, it would take 2-3 years for the entire world population to get fully vaccinated,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/daily-cases-were-at-an-all-time-low-poonawalla-defends-india-s-vaccine-export-101621349371102.html
18-05-2021||India||‘Another cyclone likely to form over Bay of Bengal as low-pressure area’: IMD||After cyclone Tauktae, another cyclone could be brewing with a low-pressure area likely to form over the east-central Bay of Bengal around May 23 that might intensify further into a depression and a cyclone, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has warned. If a cyclone forms, it will be called ‘Yaas’.“We have indicated in our bulletin that there is a likelihood of formation of a low-pressure area over Bay of Bengal next week. In our outlook on cyclogenesis also we have indicated that the low-pressure system can intensify. As soon as it comes in our forecast skill range we will mention it in our forecasts,” said Sunitha Devi, in charge, cyclones at the IMD.The sea surface temperature is above normal by 1-2 degree C both over the Arabian Sea and the Bay of Bengal making conditions favourable for the development of a cyclone. “The sea surface temperatures (SST) are around 31 degrees C over the Bay of Bengal also and all other oceanic and atmospheric conditions are favourable for cyclone development,” added Sunitha.The extended cyclogenesis outlook by the Regional Specialised Meteorological Centre, issued on May 13, had said, “there is also a ‘Low’ probability existing for cyclogenesis over east-central and adjoining northeast Bay of Bengal towards the latter half of week 2.”“A low-pressure area is developing. It may intensify into a depression or a cyclone. As of now, the models are indicating that it is likely to move towards Myanmar and not towards the Indian coast,” said Mahesh Palawat, vice president, climate change and meteorology at Skymet Weather. Extremely severe cyclonic storm, Tauktae, which ravaged the west coast, particularly Mumbai, and made landfall over Gujarat coast has weakened to a cyclonic storm. It lay centred over Saurashtra, 190 kilometres south-southwest of Dessa and 105 kilometres south-southwest of Ahmedabad on Tuesday afternoon. Its intensity at the centre of the cyclone remained 75 to 85 kmph gusting to 95 kmph.After entering land around 8.30 PM on Monday, Tauktae continued to move north northwestwards and crossed the Gujarat coast between Porbandar and Mahuva (Bhavnagar district) east of Diu with a maximum wind speed of 155 to 165 kmph gusting to 185 kmph. The intensity at the centre or eye of the storm was 160 to 170 kmph gusting to 190 kmph.Remnants of the system and its interaction with an approaching western disturbance is likely to cause fairly widespread to widespread rainfall/thunderstorms over the Western Himalayan region and adjoining plains of northwest India during May 19 and 20 along with isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall over Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi and West Uttar Pradesh on May 19 and heavy rainfall at isolated places over Punjab on the same day. Isolated extremely heavy rain is also likely over Uttarakhand on May 19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/another-cyclone-likely-to-form-over-bay-of-bengal-as-low-pressure-area-imd-101621348334101.html
18-05-2021||India||YSR Congress MP who accused cops of torture shifted to military hospital, examined||YSR Congress lawmaker Kanumuri Raghurama Krishnam Raju, arrested last week on charges of sedition, was shifted to the military hospital in Secunderabad around Monday midnight. The Supreme Court had ordered that K Raghurama Krishnam Raju be admitted to the military hospital after the rebel YSR Congress member of Parliament alleged that he had been tortured by Andhra Pradesh police and requested that he should be examined at a “neutral” hospital.On Tuesday, Raju underwent a medical examination by a board of three doctors constituted by the commandant of the medical hospital. The examination was conducted under the supervision of Telangana high court registrar D Nagarjuna who was appointed as a judicial officer by the high court chief justice on the top court’s directions.“The medical examination was videographed. His blood samples were taken for conducting various tests. His health condition is stable. After obtaining all medical examination reports, the medical board will submit a report on Raju’s health status to the Supreme Court in a sealed cover,” an official at the military hospital said. The top court will hear the case on Friday.In his plea to seek bail from the Supreme Court, Raju had cited torture by the police and pointed ou that he was suffering from cardiac issues and had undergone a bypass surgery recently.Raju was arrested on charges of sedition, delivering hate speeches and promoting disaffection against the government on May 14, weeks after he escalated his attacks on party boss and chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy. He had approached the high court for bail a day after his arrest but was told to first file the request with a lower court. The Narasapuram lawmaker, also a prominent businessman in the West Godavari district, moved the Supreme Court for bail on Monday.At the military hospital on Tuesday, Raju is learnt to have complained of difficulty in walking due to alleged custodial torture by Andhra police. His statement was recorded by the doctors. “He had swelling on his right leg and he was administered painkillers for treating the inflammation,” the official cited above said.Raju will remain at the hospital till Friday for observation and medical care. His period of stay in the hospital would be treated as judicial custody which would end on May 28.It was during the bail hearing at the Supreme Court that Raghurama Krishnam Raju also alleged that he had been tortured but doctors at the state government hospital had refused to acknowledge his injury. The Guntur general hospital had earlier told the high court that he had no external injuries and that he was stable.Meanwhile, officials at the military hospital refused permission to Raju’s son K Bharat to visit his father since this was not permitted by the Supreme Court. “It is unfortunate that I was not permitted to see my father. Since it was the Supreme Court order, I have to follow it,” Bharat said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ysr-cong-mp-who-accused-cops-of-torture-shifted-to-military-hospital-examined-101621347975068.html
18-05-2021||India||Will my Covid-19 vaccine first dose effect last for 6 months? Experts say yes||Four to six weeks, six to eight or eight to 12? The increasing gap between two Covishield doses in India while the UK reduces its window has laypersons confused, but several experts say there is little reason to worry and second jabs anytime before six months can still be effective boosters.The government last week extended the gap between two doses of the Covishield Covid-19 vaccine to 12-16 weeks, up from the previous maximum of eight weeks, on the recommendation of the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (NTAGI). A day later, UK cut the gap from 12 weeks to eight weeks in view of the spread of the B.1.617 variant that originated in India. Responding to concerns that India increased the gap primarily because vaccines were in short supply and many states had complained of acute shortage in supplies, immunologist Satyajit Rath said vaccine dosing is “quite flexible and forgiving”.Once four weeks have passed, the next dose can be taken whenever practicable, until six months.According to the scientist, vaccine doses will be safe no matter when they are taken but will not provide any great "boosting" if given within less than a month or so of the previous dose. “So vaccine doses can be taken any time after at least four weeks have passed from either the first dose or after an actual episode of Covid-19,” Rath, from New Delhi's National Institute of Immunology (NII), told PTI. “Secondly, vaccine doses will give perfectly good boosting if given any time up to as much as six months or so after a previous dose. So a second dose, or the first dose after a Covid-19 episode, does not have to be taken after four weeks,” he explained. The NTAGI, Rath added, is making these new recommendations based on evidence, and trying to provide support for practical steps.Referring to the UK reducing its Covishield doses gap just as India increased its, immunologist Vineeta Bal said these decisions are taken based on ground realities and “there is no yes or no answer” to whether they will have any consequence on tackling the variant better. In one country, the increased window will enable more people to be vaccinated, in the other, a decreased gap will accelerate the pace of inoculation.“If there are enough doses available, the second shot should be given at the optimal time as it will provide the best possible immunity in the present circumstances,” Bal, guest faculty at Pune’s Indian Institute of Science Education and Research, told PTI.A vaccine triggered immune response, she admitted, will start declining with time. However, at the end of 12-16 weeks it is unlikely to come to complete baseline level. “Hence a booster effect can still be obtained after a gap of 12-16 weeks,” Bal said. “There are also data from various clinical trials for Covishield which are suggestive that a booster after 12-16 weeks will be fine,” she added. According to Rath, there is emerging evidence, mostly from the UK for Covishield, that very good protection is seen with a dose gap of 12 odd weeks. “So I think that the committee is trying to provide evidence-based support for delaying the permissible interval between doses as much as possible to accommodate the realities of vaccine supply shortage,” he added. Bal added it is not a serious cause of concern as long as there is assurance that everyone will get the first and second dose in the near future. According to a peer-reviewed study published in The Lancet in February, the coronavirus vaccine developed by AstraZeneca and Oxford University is more effective when its second dose is given around three months after the first, instead of six weeks later. "Vaccine supply is likely to be limited, at least in the short term, and so policy-makers must decide how best to deliver doses to achieve the greatest public health benefit,” Prof Andrew Pollard of the University of Oxford said in the study. “Where there is a limited supply, policies of initially vaccinating more people with a single dose may provide greater immediate population protection than vaccinating half the number of people with 2 doses,” he added. In India, the gap between two Covishield doses was four to six weeks, then increased to six to eight, and is now 12-16."Based on the available real-life evidences, particularly from the UK, the Covid-19 Working Group agreed for increasing the dosing interval to 12-16 weeks between two doses of Covishield vaccine. No change in interval of Covaxin vaccine doses was recommended," the Health Ministry said last week.The NTAGI has also stated that those having laboratory test proven SARS-CoV-2 illness should defer Covid-19 vaccination for six months after recovery. According to the Health Ministry's current protocol, the vaccine is to be taken four to eight weeks after recovery from Covid-19. Rath said the basis for this step seems to be based on the fact that there are good antibody levels in most people who have had Covid-19 and that they last for at least six months.  So they are likely to be well protected for that period, and therefore there is no pressing need to vaccinate them before that,” the scientist said. “This reduces the burden on the stuttering vaccine supply and distribution system. I am not in disagreement with the recommendations based on such a rationale, ” he added. However, the immunologist hoped that the rationale will be clearly explained. If there is no explanation, it will add to confusion. Most viral infections, Bal noted, generate enough immunity to provide protection for a few months post-recovery. Based on that knowledge, this recommendation is not unreasonable. “RT-PCR positive patients post-recovery do not remain as vulnerable as those who are neither vaccinated nor infected,” she explained. “They have enough immunity in them, generally. Just because of this recommendation, the situation is not likely to worsen in India. Other things like unavailability of vaccine for a large section of people is more of a problem,” Bal added. On NTAGI suggesting no changed in the protocol for Covaxin, the other vaccine being administered in India, Rath said this is likely because the recommendations are based on UK-based evidence with Covishield. There is no no such evidence for Covaxin. “I am glad since this suggests that the committee, as I keep saying, is trying very hard to stay carefully on evidence while trying to help with the current unhappy realities,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-my-covid-19-vaccine-first-dose-effect-last-for-6-months-experts-say-yes-101621342004858.html
18-05-2021||India||India's future needs Modi 'system' shaken out of sleep, says Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday said the country would not have been in such a painful situation due to the coronavirus pandemic today had the government ensured easy access to vaccines.He also said that a coronavirus vaccine-treatment protocol should already have been in place for children in the country."The country would not have been in such a painful situation today, if access to vaccines (against coronavirus) was as easy as arresting people under the Modi ‘system’ for raising questions. Stop Corona, not questions raised by the public," he said in a tweet in Hindi.His tweet came in the backdrop of arrest of over a dozen of people after posters were put up in Delhi questioning Prime Minister Narendra Modi for the export of coronavirus vaccines.In another tweet, he added, "In the time to come, children will need protection from Corona. Paediatric services and vaccine-treatment protocol should already be in place," Gandhi wrote on Twitter."India's future needs for the present Modi 'system' to be shaken out of sleep," he said.The former Congress chief and his party have been criticising the government's vaccination policy describing it discriminatory.Gandhi has been demanding a vaccination protocol be put in place for protecting all Indians from Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-future-needs-modi-system-shaken-out-of-sleep-says-rahul-gandhi-101621342029047.html
18-05-2021||India||Covid-19 cases in Tamil Nadu, Punjab, Assam may peak in next 2 weeks, govt-backed SUTRA model suggests||States like Tamil Nadu, Assam and Punjab may see the peak of second wave of coronavirus cases in the next two weeks, the SUTRA model that charts the trajectory of Covid-19 suggests.However, the relief is that Delhi and states like Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh have well passed their peak, the model further suggests.It also says that the country reached its peak by May 4 and then the daily cases have seen downward trend. However, on May 7, the country recorded 4,14,188 cases, the single highest in any day."Big states like Tamil Nadu, Punjab, Himachal Pradesh, Assam are yet to see their peak," said Prof. M Vidyasagar of IIT-Hyderabad, one of the three scientists working on the modelling.The models suggest Tamil Nadu may see a peak by May 29-31 while Puducherry may witness a peak on May 19-20.States in east and northeast India are yet to see their peak. Assam may see a peak by May 20-21, the model suggests.On Monday, the state detected 6,394 new cases, which is also the highest on a single day. Chief minister Himanta Biswas Sarma said the state also recorded 92 more Covid-19 deaths on Monday, its highest single-day fatality.Models predicted a dip in infection in Arunachal Pradesh, Manipur and the cases in these states did record a decline but they have started increasing marginally. Meghalaya could see a peak on May 30-31, while Tripura could see a peak on May 26-27, the model suggests.In the north, Himachal Pradesh and Punjab are witnessing a surge in the cases. Himachal Pradesh may see a peak in the cases by May 24 and Punjab by May 22.Odisha was to peak by May 16-17.States like Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Jharkhand, Rajasthan, Kerala, Sikkim, Uttarakhand, Gujarat, Haryana besides Delhi and Goa have already seen their peak.The health ministry in its press briefing on Tuesday said Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Bihar, Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh have shown a decline in Covid-19 cases and a decline in positivity. It added that Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Bihar, Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh have shown a decline in cases and a decline in positivity, it added.Mathematical models help predict the intensity of coronavirus cases and policy decisions can be taken on its basis. The SUTRA model came into existence last year after the Department of Science and Technology formed a group of scientists to work on mathematical models to forecast the surge of coronavirus.The modelling faced intense criticism after it could not predict the exact nature of the second wave.A statement issued by the DST and signed by Vidyasagar, IIT Kanpur Professor Manindra Agrawal and deputy chief of Integrated Defence Staff Madhuri Kanitkar, said mathematical models had predicted a second wave of coronavirus and its peak in the third week of April with daily cases of 1 lakh.But the numbers were much higher than the model predicted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-cases-in-tamil-nadu-punjab-assam-may-peak-in-next-2-weeks-govt-backed-sutra-model-suggests-101621344348807.html
18-05-2021||India||Eight states have more than 100,000 active Covid-19 cases, testing increased consistently: Centre||The Centre on Tuesday said that at present eight states have more than 100,000 active cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The government also said that the number of tests conducted for Covid-19 in India has witnessed a “consistent increase.”In a press briefing by the Union ministry of health and family welfare, joint secretary Lav Agarwal said that eight states -- Karnataka, Maharashtra, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal -- have more than 100,000 active Covid-19 cases. Karnataka with 603,660 active cases added the maximum. Data from the ministry also showed that there are 10 states that have between 50,000 and 100,000 active cases and there are 18 states where the active caseload is below 50,000.Also read | Will give ₹50,000 to family who faced Covid-19 death, announces Kejriwal﻿The ministry also said that the number of tests conducted for Covid-19 has seen a “consistent increase” across the country. Between May 11 and 17, health workers have tested 1,845,672 samples for the disease which has increased from 1,816,139 samples tested between May 4 and 10.Mentioning that 1.8% of India’s population has been affected by the disease, the ministry said that “Despite the high number of cases reported so far, we have been able to contain the spread to under 2% of population.”The US leads the list, where 10.1% of the population has tested positive followed by France (9%) and Brazil (7.3%). However, the number of people affected in India is much higher than the other countries (except the US) mentioned by the ministry.Meanwhile, at least six states, Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Delhi, Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh, have shown a decline in the daily new cases and also the positivity rate, the ministry highlighted. However, in states like Tamil Nadu, Tripura, Sikkim, Arunachal Pradesh, Manipur and Mizoram, the two parameters have seen an increasing trend. In Andhra Pradesh, West Bengal, Odisha, Assam, Puducherry and Nagaland, the cases seem to have plateaued, the ministry noted.Watch | Biden pledges 80 million Covid vaccines overseas; takes a dig at Russia & China﻿Among the districts, Pune, Nagpur and Nashik in Maharashtra have shown a continued decline in the cases in the past three weeks, according to data from the ministry.As far as the Covid-19 vaccination is concerned, more than 184 million doses of the vaccine have been administered so far. Of these, 139.5 million doses have been given to beneficiaries above 45 years of age, while more than 5.9 million doses have been received by the people in the 18 to 44 years age group. Also, 22.7 million doses have been used to inoculate frontline workers and 16.3 million doses to healthcare workers, data from the ministry showed.India reported 263,533 new Covid-19 cases on the day and 4,329 patients succumbed to the infection, pushing the death toll to 278,719.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/eight-states-have-more-than-100-000-active-covid-19-cases-testing-increased-consistently-centre-101621343406654.html
18-05-2021||India||UP CM Yogi Adityanath's approach to battle second wave of Covid-19: Key points||Uttar Pradesh is one of the top eight states with the highest active coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in the country. The state's active caseload stands at 149,032, as per the Union health ministry data.Chief minister Yogi Adityanath's approach to controlling Covid-19 in the state:As the threat of the second wave of the pandemic is looming large on the rural areas of the country, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath held review meetings with officials of different divisions regarding the Covid-19 situation in the villages. As many as 47 districts of 11 divisions, which is more than 50% of the state, have been assessed by Yogi through virtual meetings or physical inspection.Also read: 2 booked under NSA in Manipur for FB posts that cow dung won’t cure Covid-19The chief minister ordered stern action against those found guilty of any kind of negligence towards Covid appropriate behaviour. Recently the chief minister held a review meeting of Meerut and Saharanpur divisions of the state following a physical inspection during a two-day visit. The chief minister selects the village to visit for inspection based on the list provided by the district administration.Yogi emphasises tracing, testing and treatment to contain the virus spread. Integrated Covid Control and Command Centre (ICCC) and containment zones aid in the process. The chief minister also pays regular visits to the ICCC to ensure regular supply and availability of medical essentials and inspect the sanitation of the sites.For the second wave, Yogi has formulated Team 9, just like Team 11 was formed when the disease first hit the state. After video conferencing with the concerned officials, the chief minister evaluates the implementation of the guidelines on the ground.Yogi also continued virtual review meetings with officers every day during his home isolation as he was detected positive with the infection. Soon after testing negative, the chief minister reviewed the dedicated Covid hospital set up by the DRDO in Lucknow.Also read: Covid-19 vaccination process being streamlined, says PM ModiYogi also visited the Aligarh Muslim University, as the Covid-19 situation is deteriorating there after several teachers succumbed to the virus. The university also sent the samples for genome sequencing as the presence of a new variant was suspected due to the increased transmissibility. He is known to be the first chief minister to visit the university in the last 37 years.Earlier in the day, Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra lashed out at the chief minister accusing the state government of low testing and asked if it was paving the way for the third wave of Covid-19."Neither there is testing, nor treatment, nor medical kits, but the government says that everything is fit," Gandhi said.This comes a day after the Allahabad high court said that the healthcare infrastructure in villages and small cities of Uttar Pradesh is at God's mercy or as it said 'Ram Bharose'.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-cm-yogi-adityanath-s-approach-to-battle-second-wave-of-covid-19-key-points-101621337396180.html
18-05-2021||India||Covaxin trials in children between 2 and 18 years to begin in 10-12 days, says Niti Aayog member||Dr VK Paul, member (health) of Niti Aayog, said on Tuesday that Bharat Biotech is set to begin the phase II and III clinical trials for Covaxin in children in the age group of 2 to 18 years in the next 10-12 days."Covaxin has been approved by the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI), for Phase II/III clinical trials in the age group of 2 to 18 years. I have been told that trials will begin in the next 10-12 days," Paul said during a press conference.Covaxin received the Drugs Controller General of India's (DCGI) nod to conduct clinical trials in children on May 11. DGCI acted on the recommendations by the subject expert committee (SEC) of the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation’s (CDSCO), which green lighted the trial under certain conditions.Bharat Biotech approached the central drug regulator with a proposal for conducting clinical trials in children within the age group of 5-18 back in February. The proposal was rejected and the company was asked to produce the data of the vaccine's efficacy in adults first.“After detailed deliberation, the committee recommended that the firm should submit efficacy and safety data of the ongoing Phase III clinical trial in adults along with the age subgroup analysis. The design of the trial should be revised to Phase II/III. Sample size and other consequential changes should be made to the protocol, accordingly. Accordingly, the firm shall submit revised clinical trial protocol for review of the committee,” Bharat Biotech was told in a meeting on February 24.India's move to conduct clinical trials for determining the vaccine's efficacy in children comes on the heels of US and Canada approving the Pfizer-BioNTech jab for ages 12-15. The US rolled out a vaccination drive for children aged 12-15 on May 14, and Canada had approved the Pfizer shots for the same age group on May 5. The European Medicines Agency is also evaluating the use of Pfizer vaccines in children.The clinical trials are expected to be conducted in 525 participants at various hospitals. Dr Randeep Guleria had said earlier that the need of the hour is some quick data and risk-benefit analysis of the vaccine's use in children. Experts have been urging governments all over the world to inoculate children so schools can be safely re-opened. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi took to Twitter on Tuesday urging the central government to put into place necessary protocols for vaccinating children.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covaxin-trials-in-children-between-2-and-18-years-to-begin-in-10-12-days-says-niti-aayog-member-101621339718922.html
18-05-2021||India||2 booked under NSA in Manipur for FB posts that cow dung won’t cure Covid-19||The Manipur police have booked a journalist and an activist under the National Security Act (NSA), which provides for detention for up to a year without trial, days after they were arrested for saying cow urine and dung do not cure Covid-19 in their Facebook posts related to ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) state chief S Tikendra Singh’s death of the disease.Victor Chongtham, the lawyer of Kishorechandra Wangkhem, the journalist, and activist Erendro Leichombam, said the NSA was slapped on his clients before they could complete the formalities of their release after an Imphal court on Monday granted them bail. “We had deposited their bond amounts and were awaiting a printed copy of the court’s order granting them bail when the police decided to detain both under NSA,” said Chongtham. He added some BJP leaders have filed cases against his clients, who have earlier faced sedition charges and were arrested on Thursday for writing the posts.Also Read | Assam to ban inter-district movement to contain record rise in Covid casesChongtham said they are sending representations to the Centre as well as the state government seeking their release. “If that fails to elicit the desired outcome, we will approach the Manipur high court.”Chongtham said the police assaulted Wangkhem during his arrest and also hit Leichombam’s mother on her chest while taking him into custody.Elangbam Ranjita, Wankhem’s wife, said when the police arrived at their home on Thursday around 9:00 pm, her husband told them he is ready to answer their queries or accompany them. “But they assaulted him by pulling his shirt and tore it off,” said Ranjita.Imphal West district police superintendent K Meghachandra Singh said the two were arrested on Thursday under the Indian Penal Code (IPC)’s Section 153 A for allegedly promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language, etc and acts prejudicial to maintenance of harmony. He added the NSA was slapped on them on Monday and they were produced in a court through video conferencing and remanded in judicial custody for four days. “Both are in Imphal jail.”NSA is slapped to prevent anyone “from acting in a manner prejudicial to the security of the State, maintenance of public order and maintenance of supplies and services essential to the community”. Section 153 A provides for maximum five-year imprisonment. Wangkhem, a popular TV journalist, was first arrested in November 2018 for uploading a video on social media criticising Manipur chief minister N Biren Singh’s government. He was booked for sedition and NSA was also slapped on him before he was released in April 2019. The high court quashed the sedition charges against him. He was again arrested in September 2020 on the same charges and for allegedly promoting enmity between different groups on social media. Wangkhem was released in December 2020 and joined Frontier Manipur and started hosting a talk show.In July last year, Leichombam, who has worked with World Bank and United Nations Development Programme, was booked for sedition for a Facebook post on titular Manipur king Sanajaoba Leishemba greetings to Union home minister Amit Shah after the former’s election to the Rajya Sabha. Leichombam was later released on bail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-booked-under-nsa-in-manipur-for-fb-posts-that-cow-dung-won-t-cure-covid19-101621339453858.html
18-05-2021||India||News updates from HT: BMC extends global tender deadline for Covid-19 vaccines and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.BMC extends Covid vaccine global tender deadline by a weekThe Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Tuesday extended the deadline for its global tender for vaccine supply to Mumbai by a week, to March 25. Read MoreOdisha’s real Covid-19 challenge lies in rural areas, say expertsOn Saturday, the in-laws of a 25-year-old newly-wed woman went from one hospital in Bhubaneswar to another, frantically searching for a bed with oxygen facility. Read MoreStop Singapore flights, Kejriwal tells Centre amid concerns of new Covid strainDelhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday requested the Centre to suspend flights to and from Singapore with immediate effect in the wake of a new strain detected in that country which is suspected to affect more children. Read MoreKerala Cabinet: CM’s son-in-law gets berth; all old ministers droppedThe ruling Communist Party of India (Marxist) on Tuesday sprang a surprise by dropping all ministers of the outgoing Pinarayi Vijayan government. Read MoreCummins, Starc, Hazlewood, Lyon respond to Sandpapergate rumours: 'Did not know foreign substance was taken onto field'Australian bowlers Pat Cummins, Mitchell Starc, Josh Hazlewood, and Nathan Lyon on Tuesday made their stand clear on the infamous Sandpapergate controversy as they issued a joint statement to the 'Australian Public'. Read MoreJennifer Lopez kept Ben Affleck's $1.2m pink diamond ring from their engagement?The rumour mills are churning with the possibility of Bennifer 2.0 and gossip columnists all over are overwhelmed with all the fodder that Ben Affleck and Jennifer Lopez are throwing around with their appearances together. Read MoreCars can wait, Covid won't: Maruti starts multi-speciality hospital in GujaratIn current times when medical infrastructure and facilities have become India's primary need, Maruti Suzuki has taken a big step in the battle against Covid-19 by partnering with Zydus Hospitals to officially start a multi-speciality hospital in Gujarat's Sitapur. Read MoreStep inside Neetu Kapoor's living room filled with ample seating space and a green viewNeetu Kapoor was seen catching up with her daughter Riddhima Kapoor Sahni over a video call on Monday. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-bmc-extends-global-tender-deadline-for-covid-19-vaccines-and-all-the-latest-news-101621334783901.html
18-05-2021||India||Covid-19 vaccination process being streamlined, says PM Modi during interaction with district officials||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday said that the vaccination process for Covid-19 is being streamlined to boost the inoculation drive in order to reduce the severity of the disease. Attempts are being made to provide the states with the vaccination schedule of the next 15 days in advance, he said."Health ministry is streamlining the system and process of vaccination. Attempts are being made to give a schedule of the next 15 days to the states in advance," a statement read.The Prime Minister emphasized on the need to contain the virus spread and reduce the number of infections without hindering any flow of essential supplies. Work related to the installation of oxygen plants in hospitals of every district through the PM Cares Fund is being carried out rapidly, while many of the plants are already functioning in various places, PM Modi said.Also read| Covid-19 vaccine protocol for children should already be in place: Rahul GandhiHe also asked the state and district officials to compile the best practices and innovative steps for controlling the Covid-19 spread so that they can also be implemented in other districts of the country. The officials during the high-level interaction informed the Prime Minister about the efforts being undertaken to augment medical infrastructure and capacity building in the rural areas.The Prime Minister said while several states are reporting a declining trend in the number of cases, other states are projecting a rise in the cases and so stressed on the need to be more vigilant. He asked the officials to make relief material available and easily accessible in remote rural areas that are less accessible. He said the convenience of people increases when the information about the availability of beds and vaccines is easily available.Remarking the efforts taken like local containment zones, aggressive testing, accurate and complete education to people about the virus, he said, "You understand the challenges of your district much better. So, when your district wins, the country wins. When your district beats Corona, the country defeats Corona."The Prime Minister also laid importance on curbing the malpractices of black marketing and hoarding and asked the officials to take strict actions against the culprits.Also read: Delhi’s Covid tally dips further with 4,482 cases; positivity rate down to 6.89%PM Modi appreciated and lauded the efforts of healthcare and frontline workers as well as the officials who have been working relentlessly without any leaves despite contracting the virus.India on Tuesday registered over 260,000 new Covid-19 cases and 4,329 deaths in the last 24 hours, according to the health ministry data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-vaccination-process-being-streamlined-says-pm-modi-during-interaction-with-district-officials-101621335012800.html
18-05-2021||India||Will give ₹50,000 to family who faced Covid-19 death, announces Kejriwal||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday announced an ex-gratia of ₹50,000 to families in the national capital that lost a member to Covid-19 disease, reported ANI.CM Kejriwal also announced a monthly pension of ₹2,500, in addition to the ex-gratia, for families where its sole breadwinner succumbed to the deadly viral disease."If the husband dies, the pension will be given to the wife, if the wife dies it will be given to the husband. If an unmarried person dies, the pension will be given to her or his parents," Kejriwal was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Also read: Virus in Singapore can be India's 3rd wave, very dangerous for kids, warns Arvind KejriwalIn a further relief for children who lost their parents in the Covid-19 disease spread, Kejriwal said, "Children whose both parents die either due to Covid-19 or with one parent already dead and the one succumbing to Covid-19 now will be given ₹2,500 monthly pension till they attain the age of 25 years.""The children who have lost their parents to Covid-19 will be provided free education by the Delhi government," Kejriwal further said.Explaining the move to financially aid the bereaved families, Kejriwal said that in the last 4-5 days the Delhi government ministers and officers assessed ways to save money being spent by the authorities and help the citizens in the city-state who are reeling under the crisis.Assisting families with ration cards, Kejriwal announced free ration for the month of May up to 10kg -- by both the Delhi government and Centre."There are 72 lakh ration card holders in Delhi and they are given 5 kg ration by the government every month. This month, the ration will be given free of cost. Besides this, an additional 5 kg free ration is being given by the Centre, so they're being given 10 kg free ration this month," Kejriwal said.The announcement from CM Kejriwal comes on the day the national capital recorded 4,482 cases of coronavirus infections in the last 24 hours, pushing the cumulative case tally to 14,02,873, and 265 related deaths, a health bulletin released by the government on Tuesday showed.The positivity rate has significantly dropped to 6.89% from 8.42% on Monday, when the city had logged 4,524 cases, the lowest since April 5.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-give-rs-50-000-to-family-who-faced-covid-19-death-announces-kejriwal-101621336169100.html
18-05-2021||India||Odisha announces new Covid-19 lockdown from May 19 to June 1, medical services, essential movement exempted||With the existing curfew ending on May 19, the government of Odisha on Tuesday announced a new lockdown in the entire state starting from Wednesday (May 19) until 5am on June 1 with limited exceptions. Also, a complete weekend shutdown has been implemented between 6pm on Fridays and 5am on Mondays to curb the transmission of the coronavirus.In the government order shared by the news agency ANI, the state government has exempted few services such as the health services, financial sector, public utilities and commercial establishments selling essential goods.The announcement came on a day when the state recorded 10,321 new infections and 22 related deaths on Tuesday, which pushed the cases tally to 633,302 and the death toll to 2,357, news agency PTI reported, citing a state health department official.Under the new restrictions, all health services in the state such as hospitals, nursing homes, clinics and telemedicine facilities would remain functional. In addition, pharmacies and medical shops, including the Jan Aushadhi Kendras, have been allowed to function normally. Inter-state and intrastate Movement of medical personnel, scientists, para medical staff, nurses, midwives and lab technicians have also been exempted.Also read | Odisha’s real Covid-19 challenge lies in rural areas, say expertsBanks, ATMs, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) and all financial entities regulated by the RBI and similar institutions have been allowed to operate based on the existing guidelines. The state government also encouraged non-banking financial institutions to operate with “bare minimum staff.”In its order, the state government also said that public utilities such as railway, airport and seaport operations would continue as per the guidelines issued by the Centre. “Operation of utilities, including movement of vehicles and personnel, providing telecommunications, DTH and internet services, including maintenance of telecom towers and recharge facilities for prepaid mobile connection,” would also be exempted, the government order noted, saying “efforts shall be made to provide on-line services rather than physical services.”While the government has exempted shops dealing with food, groceries, fruits, vegetables, dairy and milk booths, meat, fish, animal fodder, seeds, fertilizers and pesticides, it has also encouraged district authorities to facilitate home delivery to minimise the movement of people.Standalone shops dealing with food and the above-mentioned items can operate between 7am and 11am with strict adherence to existing protocols. All weekly and daily markets have been prohibited. Only takeaway services have been allowed in restaurants. However, all e-commerce operations have been exempted from the curfew.Odisha had previously implemented a 14-day lockdown between May 5 and May 19 to control the new infections of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-announces-new-covid-19-lockdown-from-may-19-to-june-1-medical-services-essential-movement-exempted-101621335700627.html
18-05-2021||India||Odisha’s real Covid-19 challenge lies in rural areas, say experts||On Saturday, the in-laws of a 25-year-old newly-wed woman went from one hospital in Bhubaneswar to another, frantically searching for a bed with oxygen facility. Swarnalata Pal, who got married last month, developed fever last week followed by a dip in her oxygen saturation levels leaving her breathless. Her family members first took her to a community health centre near the village, which referred her to Capital Hospital in Bhubaneswar, triggering a chain of refusals by private and government hospitals including AIIMS and SUM to admit her in absence of a Covid-19 positive test report. After eight hours of a fruitless hunt for treatment, she died the same afternoon.While the administration ordered a probe into the circumstances leading to her death, it has served a rude reminder about the state’s healthcare system’s capacity to deal with the challenges posed by the second wave, especially in the rural areas. However, the authorities are keen to suggest that the situation is under control now.“The situation is stable now. The daily count is hovering between 10,000 and 12,000,” said director of public health, Dr Niranjan Mishra.While the state’s Covid test positivity rate may have come down slightly from over 20%, witnessed over the last 10 days, the fact that around 56% of the 2.9 lakh Covid cases registered in the second wave are from rural areas offer little comfort to epidemiologists and health experts.Dr Binod Patro, professor of community medicine at AIIMS Bhubaneswar and a leading epidemiologist, said to fight the pandemic successfully, Odisha needs to move beyond its current focus on building big corporate type hospitals in cities and instead build 30-50 bed hospitals at block level with oxygen facilities and support staff.“There is no point celebrating the fall in TPR as it would fluctuate and any fall in TPR has to be seen over a week. Currently, the testing is inadequate and so Rapid Antigen Tests need to be ramped up in villages as they will give results in 15 minutes. Once tested positive, they should be admitted to the block-level Covid hospitals. Only if the patient’s condition is serious then they should be shifted to Covid hospitals in nearby big cities,” he said.Gouranga Mohapatra, the state convenor of Jana Swasthya Abhiyan, an NGO working in health sector, said compared to last year, the spread of Covid in districts like Khurda, Kalahandi, Nuapada, Sundargarh and western Odisha districts like Bargarh and Sambalpur has been very fast this year.“When the second wave of the pandemic broke out in early April, the government did not get serious. While districts like Nuapara, Kalahandi and Sundargarh reported over 50% TPR, no institutional quarantine facility was available there. In villages, where large families have fewer rooms in houses, official quarantine centres are the best way to isolate infected patients to break the chain of transmission. But micro-containment was not done adequately, and a certain amount of complacency was visible in the health administration. With surveillance lacking, many people in villages may have succumbed to the pandemic,” said Mohapatra.Traditionally, Odisha’s response to health crises has been far from ideal. In 2016, at least 93 children in tribal-dominated Malkangiri district died of encephalitis between September and November. A year later, 53 people died of Swine Flu.Then there is the problem of severe understaffing. Of the 1,326 sanctioned posts of doctors in primary health centres, only 917 have been filled up, while in community health centres, there are only 253 doctors for the 1,529 posts sanctioned. In district headquarter hospitals, there are 1,094 doctors for the 1,427 posts. Similarly, there is severe understaffing of paramedical staff.Dr Sarit Kumar Rout, additional professor of Public Health Foundation of India, said the pandemic may have exposed the underbelly of an already decrepit health infrastructure in rural Odisha. “Considering that we have more than one lakh active Covid cases right now, the current bed availability is just inadequate. As it is, the distribution of medical manpower is skewed in favour of urban areas. How would critical Covid patients get treatment in rural areas, where pulmonary doctors and medicine specialists are almost absent,” asked Rout.Like several government hospitals in blocks, the Balipatna community health centre where the newly-wed woman was first taken to, does not have any Covid treatment facility though it is just 25 kms away from the state capital. The woman’s brother-in-law Niranjan Bhol said several people in the panchayat have Covid symptoms, but not all of them are getting tested. “Occasionally we hear of people dying of fever. Others who manage to travel for 25 km to hospitals in Bhubaneswar get tested there and if lucky get a bed in Covid hospitals there,” he said.Cuttack district, which is among the top-5 districts with high Covid caseload, too has seen cases rising quickly in rural areas, Cuttack chief district medical officer (CDMO) Satyabrata Chhotray said around 4,000 of the district’s 7,800-odd active Covid-19 cases are in villages. “This time cases are quite high in blocks like Narsinghpur, but there are fewer doctors to treat them. While a small portion of the Covid patients need hospitalisation, still there is paucity of ICU beds,” said the CDMO.Almost a month and half into the second wave of the pandemic, with 26 of the state’s 30 districts in red zone-- a district is classified as a red zone in the state if it has more than a thousand active Covid cases-- more than 80% of the 3,049 ICU beds in the state are occupied. Similarly, 608 of the 975 ventilators are occupied. People flocking to cities like Bhubaneswar, Rourkela, Bargarh and Sambalpur have little chance of getting an ICU bed or a bed with oxygen facility. Microbiologists say the current TPR of 18.2% and 10,321 new infections may be the tip of the iceberg. There are likely to be many more unreported cases due to lack of tests.The number of tests was below 50,000 for most of April and crossed that mark only a week ago. Bhadrak district, which reported TPR of 33.4% between May 10 and 16, tested about 12,426 samples while Balasore with TPR of 30% tested 18,664 samples. In several other districts, the testing is abysmally low with RT-PCR tests barely making up 20% of the total tests. Many districts like Nuapara and Nabarangpur don’t have RT-PCR machines and thus have to wait for 5-6 days for test results. By the time the results arrive, the Covid positive person’s condition is likely to have deteriorated significantly.“Rapid Antigen Tests are being conducted in the rural areas, where the positivity rate is 40% to 50%, indicating high rate of infection. The main problem is lack of testing facilities in villages,” said Niroj Mishra, a senior doctor in Bhubaneswar.Leading microbiologist Dr TM Mohapatra, who was earlier associated with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), said the state should have been testing at least 1 lakh samples every day. “As the current strain is very infectious compared to last year’s, tests should have been ramped up. If tests are delayed and the number of infections are not kept in check, the virus may mutate more making it difficult to contain in the next wave,” he said.The state government could have utilised the time between January and March this year to get more labs. The decision to set up RT-PCR laboratories for Covid-19 testing in 16 district headquarters, with each lab costing ₹1.20 crore, was taken only last week and they may not be ready in time.Very few experts believe the government’s claim that only 414 Covid patients have died in the second wave since April 1. RTI activist Pradip Pradhan said more than 3,200 Covid casualties were cremated at Bhubaneswar’s Satya Nagar crematorium between April and December 2020, while Odisha’s official Covid death toll was 1,873 last year. “If so many people were cremated last year at Bhubaneswar when the infection rate was not high, imagine what would be happening in the entire state this year,” said Pradhan.Prodded by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to ramp up tests, Odisha on Monday said ASHA and Anganwadi workers will conduct house-to-house surveys from May 24 to detect persons with Covid symptoms and co-morbid conditions.During an all-party meeting on Monday, chief minister Naveen Patnaik said 786 doctors and 5,137 paramedics will be appointed. Gaon Kalyan Samitis will be given ₹10,000 each to carry out Covid containment activities at the village level. It also promised an additional incentive of ₹1,000 per month and one-time assistance of ₹10,000 to ASHAs and Anganwadi workers to buy a bicycle, cupboard, slippers, an umbrella and a torch so that they could monitor home isolation cases.Patnaik also declared that sarpanchs will continue to have the powers of district collectors in enforcing lockdown etc.The decision to engage with the sarpanch may have come late. Amita Pattanayak, sarpanch of Bari gram panchayat in Simulia block of Balasore, does not think much of the decision. “Last time we were entrusted with running temporary quarantine centres in the early days of the pandemic. But several sarpanchs including me did not get reimbursed the money spent for those centres. Why should I start a quarantine centre now when there is no assurance of reimbursement,” she asked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odishas-real-covid-19-challenge-lies-in-rural-areas-say-experts-101621335613714.html
18-05-2021||India||Pinarayi Vijayan forms new cabinet, ‘coronavirus slayer’ KK Shailja dropped: 5 points||The Communist Party of India (Marxist) state committee on Tuesday elected its chief Pinarayi Vijayan as parliamentary party leader and the state chief minister, after scripting history by becoming the only political leader to enter a successful second stint in Kerala.Vijayan, aiming to rule the state for the next five years, has revamped his cabinet with 11 new faces and only inducted freshers. The state health minister in the outgoing assembly, KK Shailaja, who played a leading role in the fight against Covid-19 disease outbreak has not found a place in the new cabinet.Here is all you need to know about Pinarayi Vijayan's new cabinet:Vijayan had scripted history in the April 6 Assembly polls by leading the Left front to a consecutive term, breaking the over four-decade-old trend in the state of the people choosing between Communists and Congress-led governments alternately.The Communist Party of India (M)-led LDF retained power in Kerala by winning 99 seats against 41 seats of Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) in the assembly polls. BJP could not win any seat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pinarayi-vijayan-forms-new-cabinet-coronavirus-slayer-kk-shailja-dropped-5-points-101621328384681.html
18-05-2021||India||Kerala high court petitioned to shift venue of Pinarayi Vijayan-led LDF govt’s swearing in; limit number of attendees to||The Kerala high court has been petitioned by Left Democratic Party state president George Sebastian to shift the venue for the swearing-in ceremony of Pinarayi Vijayan-led Left Democratic Front (LDF) government from Central Stadium to Raj Bhavan, official residence of the governor, owing to the prevalent Covid-19 situation in the state.In the letter sent to the Chief Justice of the Kerala high court, Sebastian also asked the court to limit the number of attendees to 50 in order to ensure proper Covid-19 protocols are followed during the ceremony. The Kerala chapter of the Indian Medical Association (IMA) had urged the new cabinet to hold a virtual swearing-in ceremony as the state is currently tackling a resurgent second wave of Covid-19."The new government that knows the mind of the people and that upholds a scientific perspective is coming to power and at a time if the swearing-in is through a virtual platform will give a good message of prevention," IMA said in a statement.Sebastian asked the court to take up the letter, sent via the registrar general, as a petition of its own. As attempts to file a case earlier were unsuccessful due to disputes over e-filing. He also mentioned that similar letters sent to the Vijayan, the governor, and the chief secretary have not solicited a response. Vijayan, citing experts, told reporters on Monday that Kerala is past the peak of the second wave but urged citizens to exercise caution.The returning LDF government, which has invited 500 guests to the ceremony, had decided to hold the swearing-in ceremony at the Central stadium because of its capacity to house 50,000 attendees, which would help in ensuring Covid-appropriate behaviour is maintained. 140 newly elected MLAs, 29 members of Parliament of the state, members of the judiciary and media have reportedly been invited to the ceremony.Kerala reported 21,402 new cases of Covid-19 on Monday, taking the state-wide tally of cases to 21,39,314. Triple lockdown has been enforced in the districts of Thiruvananthapuram, Ernakulam, Thrissur, and Malappuram to reign in the massive surge of cases there.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-high-court-petitioned-to-shift-venue-of-pinarayi-vijayan-led-ldf-govt-s-swearing-in-limit-number-of-attendees-to-50-101621334039635.html
18-05-2021||India||Kerala health minister KK Shailaja not part of Pinarayi Vijayan's new cabinet||The Communist Party of India (Marxist) on Tuesday announced the release of one of the stalwart members of the previous cabinet KK Shailaja of the Pinarayi Vijayan-led government in Kerala, reported news agency ANI. KK Shailaja held the health portfolio in Vijayan's previous government and was known for the contribution and efforts against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic.Vijayan's new cabinet is composed of 11 fresh faces. The state committee of the Marxist party chaired by senior leader Elamaram Kareem elected Vijayan to lead the party and decided to entrust Shailaja with the position of party whip, as per a statement, reported PTI. The state committee meeting of the party was held at AKG Centre.Also read| Kerala Cabinet: CM’s son-in-law gets berth; all old ministers droppedShailaja gained popularity soon after the pandemic hit the country due to her rapid response to the danger of the fatal disease. By the time the first Covid-19 case arrived, on January 27, the state was already equipped with the World Health Organization's (WHO) protocol of test, trace, isolate and support. All flights into the state's international airports were halted even before the country went under the world's most strict lockdown.She garnered major international media attention, with The Guardian calling her the 'coronavirus slayer'. The Washington Post, BBC World, and other international non-English speaking media houses are following her since the success she gained in containing the Nipah virus that hit the southern state in 2018.Shailaja's handling of the migrant labourer issues and the start of the community kitchen programmes to ease the difficulty of the locals when the nationwide lockdown was imposed also helped her come into the global spotlight.Also read| Virus in Singapore can be India's 3rd wave, very dangerous for kids: Kejriwal"We have also been accommodating and feeding 150,000 migrant workers from neighbouring states who were trapped here by the lockdown," The Guardian reported Shailja as saying. “We fed them properly – three meals a day for six weeks," she also said.Vijayan led the Left Front to victory in the April 6 state assembly elections. It will be the second straight term for Vijayan to govern the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-health-minister-kk-shailaja-not-part-of-pinarayi-vijayan-s-new-cabinet-101621328199227.html
18-05-2021||India||Delhi’s Covid-19 tally dips further with 4,482 cases; positivity rate drops to 6.89%||The national capital region of Delhi recorded 4,482 cases of coronavirus infections (Covid-19) in the previous 24 hours, pushing the cumulative case tally to 14,02,873, and 265 related deaths, a health bulletin released by the government on Tuesday showed. The positivity rate has significantly dropped to 6.89% from 8.42% on Monday, when the city had logged 4,524 cases, the lowest since April 5.The active case in the national capital now stands at 50,863 while 22,111 people have succumbed to the viral disease since the pandemic struck last year, taking the mortality rate to 1.58%. The health bulletin showed as many as 65,004 samples were tested in the 24-hour span out of the overall 18407486 samples that have been diagnosed so far in the city.Meanwhile, the total recoveries touched 13,29,899, of which 9,403 were discharged in the previous 24 hours, according to the data. As many as 1,13,310 people were vaccinated during this period, taking the cumulative number of those vaccinated so far to 47,15,785.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-s-covid-tally-dips-further-with-4-482-cases-positivity-rate-down-to-6-89-101621332061879.html
18-05-2021||India||Kerala Cabinet: CM’s son-in-law gets berth; all old ministers dropped||The ruling Communist Party of India (Marxist) on Tuesday sprang a surprise by dropping all ministers of the outgoing Pinarayi Vijayan government. The most notable among them is health minister KK Shailaja, who was the face of the fight against pandemic in the state. Only Vijayan has retained his spot and his son-in-law, PA Mohamad Riyas, is among his new Cabinet colleagues. Party secretary A Vijayaraghavan’s wife R Bindu also figured in the new ministry. Party sources said while many favoured a second term for Shailaja, others argued that an exception could not be made for her if it was an entirely new team this time around. While political observers said Shailaja’s popularity came in her way, there are reports that many senior Left leaders, including Brinda Karat, have expressed strong reservations over her exclusion. Also Read | Triple lockdown in Kerala: Check out new restrictions“It is a sad development. The most popular face was removed in the name of [inducting] fresh blood... The effective handling of the pandemic situation was one of the reasons for the party’s return to power. If the whole team was changed, then it should have been applicable to the captain also,” said political analyst NM Pearson. Shailaja’s popularity was quite evident in the just-concluded assembly elections as well -- she emerged victorious from Mattanur constituency in Kannur with a majority of over 60,000 votes, the highest margin in the state. The public health crisis brought the best out of the unassuming physics teacher in the last five years-- whether it was the Nipah outbreak of 2018 and Covid-19 two years later, she was at the forefront. Meanwhile, two women have found a place in the new Cabinet: Veena George and R Bindu. Other ministers are MV Govindan, P Rajeev, KN Balagopal, V Sivankutty, VN Vasavan, Saji Cherian, K Radhakrishnan, Mohamad Riyas, and V Abdul Rahaman. Former Lok Sabha MP MB Rajesh was elected the assembly Speaker. Of the 20 ministerial slots, the CPI(M) has 12, CPI four, Kerala Congress( Mani) and Janata Dal (Secular) get one berth each. Four other smaller parties with single MLAs each will get berths on rotational basis -- two will become ministers for 30 months and the other two will be elevated during the next 30. CPI has also announced its four ministers, all new faces, K Rajan, P Prasad, JR Anil, and Chinju Rani.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-cabinet-cm-s-son-in-law-gets-berth-all-old-ministers-dropped-101621330873460.html
18-05-2021||India||Coronavirus variant found in Singapore can be India's 3rd wave, extremely dangerous for kids, warns Arvind Kejriwal||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday warned the Centre of a new variant of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) found in Singapore and said that it can result in India's third wave.The virus, Kejriwal said, is extremely dangerous for children and asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led government to immediately halt air services with Singapore and prioritise vaccination drive for children."The new form of Corona that came to Singapore is being said to be extremely dangerous for children, in India it may come as a third wave. My appeal to the central government are air services with Singapore to be cancelled with immediate effect and prioritise the options for vaccinating children at the earliest," the Delhi chief minister tweeted.सिंगापुर में आया कोरोना का नया रूप बच्चों के लिए बेहद ख़तरनाक बताया जा रहा है, भारत में ये तीसरी लहर के रूप में आ सकता है।केंद्र सरकार से मेरी अपील:1. सिंगापुर के साथ हवाई सेवाएं तत्काल प्रभाव से रद्द हों2. बच्चों के लिए भी वैक्सीन के विकल्पों पर प्राथमिकता के आधार पर काम होThe warning comes as the national capital has started showing signs of gradual recovery. The number of daily cases has come down from the highest seen last month at more than 28,000 to less than 5,000 recorded on Tuesday.By evening, Singapore’s health ministry responded with a sharp rebuttal that stressed that no new coronavirus strain had been detected in the city-state.“There is no truth whatsoever in the assertions found within the reports. There is no “Singapore variant”. The strain that is prevalent in many of the COVID-19 cases in recent weeks is the B.1.617.2 variant, which originated in India. Phylogenetic testing has shown this B.1.617.2 variant to be associated with several clusters in Singapore,” its health ministry said in a statement.Also read: Health ministry releases list of blood clot symptoms to watch out for after taking CovishieldSouth Asian countries like Singapore and Taiwan, lauded as success stories in containing Covid-19, are both rapidly imposing aggressive restrictions at home - and tightening travel between each other.In Singapore, indoor dining at restaurants has been banned and working from home will now be the default, as the city-state re-imposed lockdown-like measures it last ordered a year ago. Seven schools will switch to home-based learning to “ring-fence” those affected by infections, as the city-state makes plans to vaccinate those below 16 years old.Officials have urged Singapore residents to wear masks and avoid activities that require “masks to be down,” such as eating and drinking with others “for the next 3-6 weeks”.Singapore’s latest curbs, announced on May 14, will remain in effect for one month, until June 13, according to the health ministry. The country added 38 new local cases on Sunday, 18 of which are currently unlinked to known clusters.On April 29, Singapore’s daily community cases of Covid-19 climbed to the highest in more than nine months, with a cluster formed in one of the biggest hospitals in the country and another from a worker at Changi Airport. This prompted the officials to put the country on heightened alert.Also read: Suspected symptoms of thromboembolic events after Covid-19 vaccination. All you need to knowThe outbreaks and virus-control measures threaten the reopening progress of regional travel. Singapore had previously allowed travellers from Taiwan to enter without a quarantine. On Saturday, it announced a ban on the entry of short-term visitors with travel history to Taiwan in the past 21 days, while requiring citizens, permanent residents and long-term pass holders to quarantine when they arrive.(With inputs from Bloomberg)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/singapore-virus-can-be-india-s-3rd-wave-extremely-dangerous-for-kids-warns-arvind-kejriwal-101621329215829.html
18-05-2021||India||SC judge BR Gavai recuses himself from hearing Param Bir Singh’s plea||A new bench of the Supreme Court will now hear the petition filed by former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh for a CBI inquiry into his complaint against Mumbai Police threatening him to withdraw his graft charge against former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh.On Tuesday, when the matter came up before a Vacation Bench of justices Vineet Saran and BR Gavai, the latter said, “I cannot hear the matter.” For Singh, senior advocate Puneet Bali appeared and opened arguments claiming that a witch-hunt is on against him ever since he write a complaint on March 20 to the chief minister exposing the “money collection scheme” run by Deshmukh.The bench, without going into the merits of the case, directed the petition to be listed before another bench in view of the reservation expressed by Justice Gavai. No reason was cited by the judge for not hearing the matter. In his complaint dated March 20 this year, Singh had accused Deshmukh of running a “money collection scheme” through the police department. The complaint was made three days after Singh was transferred to a low-key post in Mumbai Police’s Home Guards. The transfer was in the wake of Singh’s alleged mishandling of a case in which explosives were found in an abandoned vehicle outside Mukesh Ambani’s Antilia residence in Mumbai, and the subsequent arrest of suspended police officer Sachin Vaze in the case. CBI is already investigating Singh’s complaint but is yet to file a final report. Also Read | Plea to cancel CBSE, ICSE class XII exams filed in SCIn his latest plea filed through advocate Natasha Dalmia, Singh has accused Mumbai Police’s inquiry officer of threatening to foist “multiple injuries and investigations” on him if he does not withdraw his complaint against Deshmukh. This allegation formed part of a representation made by Singh with the CBI on April 19 with which he attached the transcript of his conversation with the said officer as evidence. The petitioner has further requested the apex court to direct the Maharashtra government and Mumbai Police to transfer all inquiries already ordered or under contemplation against him to an independent investigation agency outside the state or preferably the CBI. The former top cop has also demanded blanket protection against any inquiry or coercive action by police. Singh had earlier moved the apex court in March this year, asking for an independent probe to expose the alleged malpractices of Deshmukh before he could get any chance to destroy evidence. The court had refused to entertain his plea and asked Singh to approach Bombay high court instead.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-judge-br-gavai-recuses-himself-from-hearing-param-bir-singh-s-plea-101621327813788.html
18-05-2021||India||Google rolls out News Showcase in India; to train 50,000 journalists, students||Google has launched its global product called News Showcase in India. It is a programme to pay news publishers for their content online. The tech giant has partnered with a number of publishers in India, including HT Digital Streams, one of the largest print publishers in India. It allows partnering publishers to curate content and provide limited access to paywalled stories for users.“As an established media house, engaging with our audiences through quality content in convenient and innovative ways is a huge area of focus for us. We are pleased to partner with Showcase to build on the same and help us access new users,” said Paras Sharma, head of news partnerships, HT Digital Streams Ltd.As part of the initiative, the content from publishers will begin to appear in dedicated News Showcase panels in Google News and on Discover pages in English and Hindi. Support for more local languages will be added in the future.Google said the investment will help people "find quality journalism, contribute to the sustainability of news organizations, and expand its programs under the Google News initiative". The company highlighted the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic to drive home the point of needing authoritative news and information.The India launch will build on News Showcase deals signed by Google with 700 news publications in more than a dozen countries, including Germany, Brazil, Canada, France, Japan, the UK Australia, Czechia, Italy and Argentina. The company further said that it is in talks with publishers in several other countries as well.News publishers have long fought the world's most popular internet search engine for compensation for using their content, with European media groups leading the charge.Google said in October last year that it planned to pay $1 billion to publishers globally for their news over the next three years via Showcase.The company said that with Showcase, it is expanding the Google News initiative efforts in India. Google plans to train 50,000 journalists and journalism students over the next three years in a bid to strengthen digital skills in newsrooms. It has also introduced several new programs to help small and mid-sized publications achieve financial sustainability.These new and expanded programs build on years of investment in India, said the tech giant starting from 2018 when it launched the Google News India training network.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/google-rolls-out-news-showcase-in-india-to-train-50-000-journalists-students-101621327188632.html
18-05-2021||India||PM interacts with DMs of worst-hit districts on Covid management||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday held an online interaction with chief ministers and district magistrates of the districts that have been worst affected in the second wave of the pandemics, and asked them to convey their best practices to him so that these can be shared widely. He also called the district administration “field commanders” who are in the frontline of the war against the pandemic. “All of you have an important role in this war against Corona. You are the field commander of this war in a way, who give shape to the policy, and fight on the ground and take decisions according to the situation,” he said. The PM referred to local containment zones, aggressive testing and providing correct and complete information to the people as “weapons against this virus.” The interaction was held to receive feedback from states on the measures taken to reduce the spread of the infection, ramp up medical infrastructure and other initiatives taken by the administration. “I want to tell you… if you think that the government policy at the district level needs innovation in the policy to strengthen it, you have the freedom to do so. If you think the innovation that you have made is good for the whole district or the country, it should be sent to the government. If you think there is a need to make any change in the policy, give us that feedback also without any hesitation because the war is such that we all need to think together and innovate together,” the PM said. In the wake of complaints from states over the availability of Covid vaccines, the PM assured that there is a plan to ensure that states get a 15-day advance schedule of available vaccine. “Vaccine wastage must be stopped and optimum utilisation is a must,” he added. The PM also cautioned that there is a need to remain vigilant even in places where the daily numbers are dipping. “We have to stop the scale of infection from rising by taking correct steps such as testing, tracking, isolation and adopting Covid appropriate behaviour,” he said. Also Read | Arrests over PM Modi’s posters ‘illegal’, says plea in Supreme CourtHe also called for attention to rural areas as well as in remote areas. “We have to ensure that there is health infrastructure to meet challenges... this should be done on a priority basis,” he said. The PM said during the first wave last year, many villages had devised their own best practices. “Last time, there was no lockdown of the farming sector. I was astonished to see how villagers were maintaining social distancing even while working in the fields. They grasped the information and modified it according to their needs. This is the strength of villages,” he said. While he asked the states to ensure strict compliance to Covid appropriate behavior, he said attention should be given to “ease of living” to ensure minimal inconvenience to people, and called for action against those involved in black marketing of critical medicines, and equipment such as Remdesivir, oxygen concentrators, and oxygen cylinders. The PM also instructed the administrators to keep up the morale of those on frontlines and of those in home isolation. “As a large section of people are in home isolation, it creates confidence in them to fight the challenge better if somebody from the administration visits them and supplies oxymeters or drugs. This should be done at all district levels,” the PM said. He said all preparations must be made in states where hospitals are scheduled to receive oxygen plants through the PM-CARES fund. Union home minister Amit Shah and health secretary Rajesh Bhushan were also present in the meeting with the CM’s from states such as Delhi, Himachal Pradesh, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh and Uttarakhand. District magistrates of Patna, Bengaluru urban, Indore, Coimbatore, Dehradun, Shimoga, and Kolar were also present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-interacts-with-dms-of-worst-hit-districts-on-covid-management-101621326853335.html
18-05-2021||India||Covid-19 vaccine protocol for children should already be in place, tweets Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi took to Twitter on Tuesday to lash out at the central government on the country’s preparedness in tackling Covid-19 in children through vaccination and paediatric services. He said that necessary protocols should already be put into place by the Union government.“In the time to come, children will need protection from Corona. Paediatric services and vaccine-treatment protocol should already be in place,” Gandhi tweeted.“India’s future needs for the present Modi ‘system’ to be shaken out of sleep,” he added.Gandhi’s words come as countries all over the globe are taking steps to approve Covid-19 vaccination in children. The US approved the Pfizer-BioNtech shot in adolescents and rolled out vaccination for those aged 12-15 on May 14. This vaccination drive aims to inoculate 17 million adolescents, and forms an integral part of President Joe Biden’s strategy to usher in herd immunity.Before the US, Canada had on May 5 approved the Pfizer-BioNTech shot in those between the ages of 12-15. The European Medical Agency is also in process of reviewing the use of Pfizer jab in children.India’s drug regulator had also granted permission to the makers of Covaxin, Bharat Biotech, to conduct trials in children between the ages of 2 and 18. The trials are expected to be carried out in 525 participants at hospitals all over the country. Experts have emphasised on the need to vaccinate those below 18 years of age for a proper opening up of schools, colleges and other educational institutions.Congress has been criticising the vaccine roll-out process and the Centre's decision to send vaccines to other countries before inoculating its domestic population. The latest retort by Gandhi has been preceded by similar criticism of the ruling government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-vaccine-protocol-for-children-should-already-be-in-place-tweets-rahul-gandhi-101621325831910.html
18-05-2021||India||Portals of Badrinath shrine open, first prayers on behalf of PM Modi||The portals of Badrinath shrine in Chamoli district of Uttarakhand were opened on Tuesday with the first prayers being held on behalf of Prime Minister Narendra Modi for the welfare and good healh of all. The portals of all the Char Dhams, Badrinath, Kedarnath, Yamunotri, and Gangotri, are now open. The portals of Badrinath shrine were opened at 4.15am amid the rituals performed by the priests led by their head known as Rawal. The shrine has been decked up with 20 quintals of flowers. As Char Dham yatra has been postponed, only priests and some officials were present during the ceremony. Chief minister Tirath Singh Rawat congratulated all devotees on the opening of the portals, appealing to them to offer prayers from their homes. The portals of the Badrinath shrine were closed in November last year for the winter months following traditional rituals and safety protocols for Covid-19. Also Read | U’khand puts Char Dham yatra on hold amid spikeAccording to Char Dham Devasthanam Management Board officials, last year over 145,000 pilgrims visited the Badrinath shrine. Of the 310,000 pilgrims who went for Char Dham Yatra, 134,000 visited Kedarnath, 23,837 visited Gangotri and 7,731 visited Yamunotri. On April 29, the state government postponed the Char Dham pilgrimage to four of the holiest Hindu shrines in the state, which was scheduled to start on May 14. But portals of the shrines will remain open during the pilgrimage. Portals of the Yamunotri shrine were opened on May 14 and that of Gangotri on May 15. Portals of the Kedarnath shrine opened this Monday, May 17. Last year also, Char Dham yatra could not begin on schedule because of the lockdown imposed to check the spread of Covid-19. The shrines were opened for local pilgrims on July 1 last year and for those from other states in the last week of that month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/portals-of-badrinath-shrine-open-first-prayers-on-behalf-of-pm-modi-101621325534862.html
18-05-2021||India||'Efforts are being made to bolster supply of Covid-19 vaccines': PM Modi at virtual meet||Prime Minister Narendra Modi interacted with field officials from different states and districts on Tuesday to dicuss the Covid-19 situation. PM Modi told the attendees that the Union health ministry is undertaking continuous efforts to bolster supply of Covid-19 vaccines on a large scale.“Continuous efforts are being made to increase the supply of Covid vaccines on a large scale. The health ministry is streamlining the system and process of vaccination,” said PM Modi.The Prime Minister also said that to help officials get a better understanding of how many people need to be vaccinated in their district, and aid in preparing for the vaccination drive, attempts are underway to release the vaccination schedule 15 days in advance.“This will help you know that for how many people in the district the vaccine will be made available and how you should make preparations for that,” he said.PM Modi also urged the officials to pay attention to rural and remote regions of the country as the second wave of Covid-19 surges through these areas. He urged officials to undertake rigorous efforts to test, isolate, and treat those affected.“We have to pay a lot of attention to rural, remote regions in the second wave of Covid-19,” he said at the virtual meeting.He also emphasised on the importance of vaccination as the “strong way to fight Covid-19” asking them to weed out all myths about it.On Sunday, the union health ministry released a set of guidelines on tackling a surge of Covid-19 cases in rural areas. The guidelines suggested involvement of ASHA workers, who have been at the frontline of India’s battle against Covid, in conducting surveillance of influenza-like illness/severe acute respiratory infections(ILI/SARI) in villages.The daily tally of Covid-19 cases have been following a downward trend and recording fewer than 3 lakh daily cases since Monday. However, the number of single-day fatalities reached an all-time high on Tuesday, after 4,329 individuals succumbed to the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/efforts-are-being-made-to-bolster-supply-of-covid-19-vaccines-pm-modi-at-virtual-meet-101621325028044.html
18-05-2021||India||BJP leader posts ‘Congress documents’, says ‘elaborate plans’ to defame Modi||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Sambit Patra on Tuesday posted two purported documents of the Congress’s research department on Twitter and called them a toolkit with “elaborate plans” to defame Prime Minister Narendra Modi, politicise religion and help build a “biased narrative” over Covid-19 management and the Central Vista project.“Disgusting to say the least ...[Congress leader] Rahul Gandhi wanting to use this opportunity of Pandemic to destroy the image of PM Modi. Congress workers instructed to call the mutant strain as ‘Modi strain’ No stone left unturned to scar the name of India with the help of Foreign Journalists!!” Patra tweeted.Rajiv Gowda, who heads the Congress’s research department, immediately hit back and accused the BJP of propagating a fake “toolkit” on Covid-19 mismanagement and attributing it to his party. In a tweet, Gowda said, they will file a First Information Report over forgery against BJP chief JP Nadda and Patra. “When our country is devastated by Covid, instead of providing relief, BJP shamelessly concocts forgeries.”BJP is propagating a fake "toolkit" on “COVID-19 mismanagement” & attributing it to AICC Research Department. We are filing an FIR for forgery against @jpnadda & @sambitswarajWhen our country is devastated by COVID, instead of providing relief, BJP shamelessly concocts forgeriesGowda accepted the note on Central Vista was genuine but added that the one related to Covid was fake. “Someone has made a fake copy. I see all background papers before they are sent to the party. No such document has been prepared by us.”Also Read | Arrests over PM Modi’s posters ‘illegal’, says plea in Supreme CourtThe note on Central Vista flagged several issues including the environmental impact of shifting trees, continuation of work amid lockdown, and how the money could have been utilised for vaccination and monetary support for the pandemic-hit poor people.Patra claimed the note on Covid said the approval ratings of Modi have been high and have not dipped despite crisis and mismanagement. “This is an opportunity to destroy his image and erode his popularity.”In a TV interview, Patra read out from what he called the Congress’s toolkit. He claimed it suggested the use of resources created on social media “to question Modi’s incompetence from handles which look like Modi or BJP supporters” and to liaise with foreign journalists and Indian opinion writers in publications abroad and brief them on talking points. He insisted the Congress also wants to use dramatic pictures of funerals and dead bodies. “When WHO [World Health Organisation] has banned the use of the term India strain, the Congress toolkit wanted to coin ‘Modi strain’,” he said.The purported Congress document on Covid says it is BJP’s practice to “communalise increasingly susceptible Hindus for their own political gains” and gives guidelines on how to avoid a narrative of Eid and Kumbh. It purportedly also speaks of mobilising “former civil servants to raise questions about PM CARES Fund” and “If any celebrity donates to it, then “aggressively question them” or “embarrass” them on social media. The purported document suggests building a narrative that “Gujarat continues to get special treatment” from Modi and call the Central Vista project his “personal house” in panel discussions. The document also allegedly suggests that phrases like “Missing [Union home minister] Amit Shah”, “Quarantined [external affairs minister S] Jaishankar”, “Sidelined [defence minister] Rajnath Singh”, “Insensitive [Union finance minister] Nirmala Sitharaman,” could be used.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-leader-posts-congress-documents-says-elaborate-plans-to-defame-modi-101621325053382.html
18-05-2021||India||Chhattisgarh: 18 passengers injured as bus falls into ditch||At least 18 passengers were injured as a bus fell into a ditch in the early morning hours of Tuesday in Chhattisgarh’s Ambikapur, near the state’s Udaipur district. Three passengers, who were critical, were referred to Abikapur’s Government Medical College and Hospital, and are now reported to be out of danger.According to the sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) of Udaipur, the accident took place around 4am on Tuesday. The bus, a Mahindra company vehicle, was on its way to Jharkhand’s Garhwa from the Chhattisgarh’s capital city of Raipur. The vehicle fell into a ditch on the Raipur-Ambikapur highway in Gumga village, reportedly because the driver fell asleep, thus losing his control over it.As soon as the news spread, Udaipur SDM, police and other administrative officials arrived on the spot. According to reports, there were 35 passengers in the bus. The injured were rushed to a hospital in Udaipur of whom the three critical ones were then referred to Ambikapur.Another bus was later arranged to transfer the remaining passengers to their destination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-18-passengers-injured-as-bus-falls-into-ditch-101621322788161.html
18-05-2021||India||News updates from HT: Petrol price crosses ₹99 per litre in Mumbai and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Fuel rates surge 10th time in May; petrol crosses ₹99/lt in MumbaiRising streak of fuel rates continued unabated for the tenth time in 15 days, making petrol costlier by ₹2.45 a litre and diesel by ₹2.78 since May 4 as state-run retailers on Tuesday raised petrol rate by 27 paise per litre and diesel by 29 paise a litre. Read moreNo new information: Cameron Bancroft backtracks on his claims on Sandpapergate - ReportAustralia cricketer Cameron Bancroft has reportedly backtracked on his recent claims regarding the 2018 Sandpapergate scandal that had rocked Cricket Australia. Read moreKangana Ranaut tests negative for Covid-19, but won't give tips on how to beat it for fear of 'covid fan clubs'Actor Kangana Ranaut has shared that she has tested negative for Covid-19. The actor mentioned how she has many tips on how to fight the disease but will not be sharing it with her followers. Read moreSpecial editions of Triumph Scrambler 900 and Scrambler 1200 launched in IndiaTriumph Motorcycles India on Tuesday announced the launch of two new special edition motorcycles in the country - the Street Scrambler 900 Sandstorm and the Scrambler 1200 Steve McQueen edition. Read moreThis hilarious representation of a museum during a pandemic may crack you up. WatchHave you ever wondered how the artists would’ve depicted their subjects in the famous paintings during the times of a pandemic? If your answer is no, then let this amusing video do the trick. Read moreWhy Covid 3rd wave will affect children more: Top virologist Dr V Ravi explainsTop virologist Dr V Ravi explains why the Covid-19 third wave will affect children more. Dr Ravi said typically new waves come three to five months after an older one subsides and planning for the potential third wave should begin right away to dampen its impact. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-petrol-price-crosses-rs-99-per-litre-in-mumbai-and-all-the-latest-news-101621321475144.html
18-05-2021||India||Odisha’s Dongaria Kondhs reject Covid tests, cases rise among vulnerable tribals||As Covid-19 spreads to at least 61 vulnerable tribal groups in the hinterlands of Odisha, the Dongaria Kondh tribals are resisting testing for the disease, officials said.After 19 Dongaria Kondh tribals-- one among the state’s 13 particularly vulnerable tribal groups (PVTG) tested Covid positive-- a medical camp was set up at Parsali on the foot of Niyamgiri hills for their mass testing. However, not a single tribal turned up with their leader telling the state government officials that they don’t trust the medical system.“We have talked to the head of the community and another round of discussion will be held. We will come tomorrow again for sample collection,” said Kalucharan Nayak, Kalyansingpur BDO (block development officer).The Dongaria Kondhs live in 36 villages under Kalyansinghpur block of Rayagada district and many of them were infected while selling their produce in daily vegetable markets.A community leader, who heads the Niyamgiri Suraksha Manch, Sakaka Ulaka said there was no point in testing for a disease that does not exist. “Nothing will happen to us as we worship Niyam Raja,” said Ulaka. Niyarmraja is the traditional deity of the Dongaria Kondhs.Officials and researchers said they may reject vaccination too. “They have their own belief system. They would rather believe in Dishari and Bejuni, their priests, than the modern medical system. As a tribal researcher working in a central government project, I have found it difficult to win their trust,” said PC Mohapatra of Koraput-based Council of Analytical Tribal Studies.Among the hundreds of tribal communities in the country, PVTG groups are more isolated, archaic, vulnerable, deprived and backward. They have been classified separately to ensure they get special attention.Since April, at least 61 PVTG members including Bondas, Dongaria Kondhs and Kharias have been infected with Covid-19 in Odisha. While 26 Bondas in Malkangiri district have tested positive, at least 16 Kharia tribals living inside Similipal biosphere of Mayurbhanj district too have tested positive.Dr Uttam Dash, a member of the quick response team said the tribals were being sensitised about the importance of social distancing and masks. “Many of the infected are in home isolation, but stable,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odishas-dongaria-kondhs-reject-covid-tests-cases-rise-among-vulnerable-tribals-101621322233249.html
18-05-2021||India||270 doctors have died in second wave of Covid-19, says IMA||The Indian Medical Association said on Tuesday that the country lost 270 doctors in the second wave of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, which has been more deadly and fast spreading. Former IMA president Dr KK Aggarwal was the latest to succumb to the deadly infection on Monday.According to the state-wide data released by the medical body, Bihar saw the maximum number of 78 deaths of medical practitioners, followed by Uttar Pradesh (37), Delhi (29) and Andhra Pradesh (22).The IMA said that 748 doctors succumbed to the disease in the first wave of the pandemic."The second wave of the pandemic is turning out to be extremely fatal for all and especially for the healthcare workers who are at the forefront," IMA president Dr JA Jayalal was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.The doctors and other healthcare and frontline workers were inoculated in the first phase of the nationwide Covid-19 vaccination programme which started on January 16 this year. The programme was latest expanded to first include those above the age of 60, and later opened for 45-plus category.From May 1, those in the age group of 18-44 became eligible for Covid-19 vaccine shots in the third phase of inoculation drive.On Monday, the Union health ministry said that the cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country has crossed 18.44 crore. Among the people who were given 18,44,22,218 doses were 96,58,913 healthcare workers (HCWs) who have taken the first dose and 66,52,200 who have taken the second dose; 1,44,97,411 Frontline Workers (FLWs) who have received the first dose and 82,16,750 who have taken the second dose.On day 122 of the vaccination drive (May 17), 14,79,592 vaccine doses were given, the ministry said.The vaccination exercise as a tool to protect the most vulnerable population groups in the country from Covid-19 continues to be regularly reviewed and monitored at the highest level, the ministry added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/270-doctors-have-dies-in-second-wave-of-covid-19-says-ima-101621321701122.html
18-05-2021||India||270 doctors have died of Covid-19 in second wave of pandemic: IMA||The Indian Medical Association (IMA) on Tuesday said 270 doctors across the country have succumbed to the coronavirus infection in the second wave of the pandemic so far.The list of the deceased doctors includes former IMA president Dr K K Aggarwal, who succumbed to the deadly virus on Monday.Bihar saw the maximum number of 78 deaths of medical practitioners, followed by Uttar Pradesh (37), Delhi (29) and Andhra Pradesh (22).According to the IMA Covid-19 registry, 748 doctors succumbed to the disease in the first wave of the pandemic."Last year, 748 doctors across India succumbed to Covid-19, while in the current wave, in a short period, we have lost 270 doctors."The second wave of the pandemic is turning out to be extremely fatal for all and especially for the healthcare workers who are at the forefront," IMA president Dr JA Jayalal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/270-doctors-have-died-of-covid-19-in-second-wave-of-pandemic-ima-101621317816356.html
18-05-2021||India||India records highest single-day fatalities since the onset of Covid-19 pandemic||India witnessed a record number of Covid-19 fatalities on Tuesday as 4,329 people succumbed to the infection in the last 24 hours, the highest single-day deaths since the beginning of the pandemic. The nation-wide death toll now stands at 2,78,719.Prior to this the country had recorded 4,205 deaths on May 12. The country also recorded 2,63,533 fresh cases of Covid-19 in the last 24 hours. Tuesday’s death toll marks an increase from the 4,106 fatalities that were recorded on Monday.This grim milestone in the country’s battle against Covid-19 comes a few days after the World Health Organization (WHO) chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus expressed concern over the rising number of new cases, deaths, and hospitalisations in India."India remains hugely concerning, with several states continuing to see a worrying number of cases, hospitalisations and deaths," Ghebreyesus said on May 14 during a daily press briefing.The data released by the Union ministry also showed daily recoveries went up by a huge margin, as 4,22,436 individuals were discharged on Tuesday after they made a full recovery. The daily number of fresh cases stayed below the 3 lakh mark for the first time on Monday, a positive trend that stuck around on Tuesday too. The country had started recording upwards of 3 lakh cases a day from April 22 onwards.Prime Minister Narendra Modi is scheduled to hold a virtual meeting today, on the prevailing Covid-19 situation in the country, with administrative officials at 11am from the states of Karnataka, Bihar, Assam, Chandigarh, Tamil Nadu, Uttarakhand, Madhya Pradesh, Goa, Himachal Pradesh, and Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-records-highest-single-day-fatalities-since-the-onset-of-covid-19-pandemic-101621315277712.html
18-05-2021||India||Narada sting: Two Bengal ministers spent night in jail as HC stayed bail||West Bengal cabinet ministers Firhad Hakim and Subrata Mukherjee spent the night in Kolkata’s Presidency Correctional Home after the Calcutta high court stayed their bail on Monday night in connection with the 2016 Narada sting operation. Ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) legislator Madan Mitra and former mayor of Kolkata, Sovan Chatterjee, the two others arrested in the case, had to be hospitalised after they complained of illness.The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Monday arrested the four on charges of bribery and corruption in the Narada case, triggering fierce protests by the TMC and a six-hour agitation by chief minister Mamata Banerjee.A special CBI court granted bail to the four, but the high court stayed the order late on Monday. The case will be next heard on Wednesday.Mitra and Chatterjee had to be hospitalised around 4 am on Tuesday. Chatterjee is diabetic, his friend Baisakhi Banerjee said. Mitra had earlier tested positive for Covid-19.Also Read | Narada case: TMC targets Bengal Guv Dhankhar over prosecution sanction“I am having breathing trouble. We are elected representatives. We are not thieves and dacoits. They [CBI] should not have treated us like this,” Mitra told reporters while being shifted to the hospital.A jail official said that Hakim and Mukherjee could also be sent for a check-up on Tuesday. Mukherjee had gone to the hospital along with Mitra and Chatterjee but later returned to the jail. “I am not keeping well. I may have to go for a check-up on Tuesday,” Mukherjee told reporters at the hospital early on Tuesday.Hakim said as the chairman of the Kolkata Municipal Corporation’s board of administrators, he was supervising the Covid-19 management. “They [CBI] did not allow me to save the people of Kolkata. I was in charge and looking after the management of vaccines, arranging ambulance, and disposing of the dead bodies in the city. I have full faith in the judiciary,” he told journalists before being taken into custody.A jail official said both Hakim and Mukherjee skipped dinner and took a stroll in the morning. They have been lodged in a special cell.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/narada-sting-two-bengal-ministers-spent-night-in-jail-as-hc-stayed-bail-101621312274066.html
18-05-2021||India||Padma Shri awardee Dr KK Aggarwal succumbs to Covid-19||Former national president of the Indian Medical Association and Padma Shri awardee Dr KK Aggarwal died of Coronavirus disease (Covid-19) late on Monday night.Aggarwal, 62, died due to Covid-19 related complications at 11.30pm at New Delhi’s All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS).According to hospital sources, Dr Aggarwal’s condition was critical and he had been on ventilator support for the past few days.Also Read | India’s Covid-19 tally tops 25 million with 263,533 new casesA statement was uploaded on his Twitter profile that confirmed the news. “It causes us immense pain to inform you that our dear Dr KK Aggarwal passed away at 11.30pm on May 17, 2021, in New Delhi, after a lengthy battle with Covid-19...,” it read.“Even during the pandemic, he made constant efforts to educate the masses and was able to reach out to 100 million people through numerous videos and videos and educational programmes and saved countless lives. He wanted his life to be celebrated And not mourned,” the statement read.Dr Aggarwal was awarded Padma Shri in 2010. He was also awarded Dr BC Roy award. He was currently the president of the Heart Care Foundation of India. Dr Aggarwal did his MBBS from Nagpur University in 1979.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/padma-shri-awardee-dr-kk-aggarwal-succumbs-to-covid19-101621311433132.html
18-05-2021||India||US will share 80mn spare Covid vaccines, says President Biden; India may benefit||President Joe Biden on Monday announced that the United States will begin shipping 20 million doses of Pfizer-BioNTech, Moderna, and Johnson & Johnson’s Covid-19 vaccines to unspecified needy countries by June end, in addition to the 60 million shots of AstraZeneca’s that have already been pledged for distribution subject to authorisation by the drug regulator.Though there are no indications of the proportion in which these 80 million doses will be distributed and to which countries, it is reliably understood that India will be among the recipients. But, once again, there is no word on what it will get — AstraZeneca, which is already made and distributed in India as Covishield, or the ones by Pfizer-BioNTech, Moderna, and Johnson & Johnson.AstraZeneca’s vaccine is not authorised for use in the United States yet — it has not even sought it — but the company is pre-contracted to supply 60 million doses whenever it is given the green light. Four million of them have already been committed to Canada and Mexico, the two closest neighbours.“Today, I’m announcing that we’ll also share US-authorised vaccines doses of Pfizer, Moderna, and Johnson & Johnson, as they become available, with the rest of the world as well,” Biden said.Also Read | White House defends diplomacy over Israel-Gaza crisisThey will begin shipping “by the end of June”, he added, “when we’ll have taken delivery of enough of such vaccines to protect everyone in the United States”.Observers described the Monday announcement as the most explicit commitment by the Biden administration to share vaccines that it can spare. Around 48% of Americans have received at least one of the two-shot Pfizer-BioNTech and Moderna vaccines and one of single-dose Johnson & Johnson’s. The country appears confident enough that it has turned the corner to allow those fully vaccinates to go without masks entirely, both indoors and outdoors.As per Biden’s announcement, the United States will be sending over the next six weeks 80 million doses overseas, which is 13 % of vaccines produced by the United States by the end of June. “This will be more vaccines than any country has actually shared to date -- five times more than any other country -- more than Russia and China, which have donated 15 million doses,” the American president said, keeping the two main US adversaries in the crosshairs.President Biden has been under increasing pressure from his own party lawmakers to send vaccines to countries that need them, including India, increasingly in the wake of the aggressive second wave that has caused unanticipated devastation.The Institute of Health Metrics and Evaluation, a highly regarded and independent global research body based in the United States, has projected 1.24 million cumulative deaths in India because of Covid-19, which has emerged as the leading killer in last some weeks.The Biden administration has sent $100 million worth of assistance to India in the wake of the recent surge in Covid-19 cases, including oxygen concentrators and related supplies, therapeutics such as Remdesivir, personal protective equipment, and rapid diagnostic kits.The Biden administration has also released raw materials Indian vaccine maker Serum Institute of India needs to ramp up productions of AstraZeneca/Covishield vaccines and, most significantly from policy perspective, backed India and South Africa’s joint proposal to the WTO to temporarily waive patents to Covid-19 vaccines to ensure their widest and most equitable distribution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/us-will-share-80mn-spare-covid-vaccines-says-president-biden-india-may-benefit-101621309932775.html
18-05-2021||India||India sees 263,533 new Covid-19 cases, highest single-day death toll of 4,329||India registered 263,533 cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the last 24 hours, taking the country’s infection tally to 25,228,996, the Union ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) dashboard showed on Tuesday morning. Also, in this period, 4,329 lives were lost to the viral disease, taking the related death toll to 278,719, the dashboard further showed. This is the highest single-day death toll in the country since the beginning of the pandemic.Click here for all latest Covid-19 updatesThough India registered a marginal rise in its new Covid-19 cases, it was for a second consecutive day that there were less than 300,000 cases. On Monday, the ministry’s dashboard showed that 281,386 people tested positive for Covid-19 in the preceding 24 hours, making it the first time in several days that India’s Covid-19 tally increased by less than 300,000 fresh infections from a single-day. However, the related daily death toll, which has oscillated between more than 4,000 fatalities per day to nearly 4,000 fatalities a day, was recorded at 4,106.Also Read | Health ministry releases list of blood clot symptoms to watch out for after taking CovishieldAccording to Tuesday's data, recovered cases have reached 21,596,512 with 422,436 additional discharges, while active cases are at 3,353,765, down by 163,232 from the previous bulletin. Recoveries, active cases and deaths together contribute 85.60%, 13.30% and 1.10% respectively of the national tally.The number of samples tested in the last 24 hours also witnessed a rise, with 1,869,223 samples tested in this period, up from 1,573,515 from the 24-hour period before that, the government-run Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) tweeted on Tuesday. Total 318,292,881 samples have been tested till May 17, the ICMR data showed.COVID-19 Testing Update. For more details visit: https://t.co/dI1pqvXAsZ @MoHFW_INDIA @DeptHealthRes #ICMRFIGHTSCOVID19 #IndiaFightsCOVID19 #CoronaUpdatesInIndia #COVID19 #Unite2FightCorona pic.twitter.com/eSTyBIRw8FCOVID-19 Testing Update. For more details visit: https://t.co/dI1pqvXAsZ @MoHFW_INDIA @DeptHealthRes #ICMRFIGHTSCOVID19 #IndiaFightsCOVID19 #CoronaUpdatesInIndia #COVID19 #Unite2FightCorona pic.twitter.com/QVbvMa8Me8The relative fall in India’s daily cases of the coronavirus disease comes on the back of drop in cases in several states and Union territories (UTs), where curbs like lockdowns, mini-lockdowns, corona curfew etc. were imposed, or extended, to break the chain of transmission of the infection. Capital Delhi and the financial hub of Maharashtra, where a lockdown and lockdown-like curbs are in place, respectively, witnessed a rise of 4,524 and 26,616 infections on Monday, as per their health departments’ bulletins. This was for the first time since April 5 that Delhi’s daily count was less than 5,000, while Maharashtra has, in the past, logged a daily caseload of more than 60,000, which has undergone a steady fall in the last few days.Also Read | Maha daily Covid cases continue to drop, state records 26,616 fresh infectionsLater in the day on Tuesday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi will hold a virtual interaction with officials from Karnataka, Bihar, Assam, Chandigarh, Tamil Nadu, Uttarakhand, Goa, Himachal Pradesh and Delhi to discuss the pandemic situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-covid-19-tally-tops-25-million-with-263-533-new-cases-101621305443553.html
18-05-2021||India||Ramesh Pokhriyal to hold meeting with VCs of Central Universities on Tuesday||Union Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank will meet all Vice Chancellors of Central Universities virtually on May 18 to review the online education amid Covid-19.In this virtual meeting, the minister will also talk about the planning and implementation of the New Education Policy-2020.In the wake of the second wave of Covid-19, the Union Education Ministry has cancelled the Class 10 CBSE board exam and postponed the CBSE board exam of Class 12.The ministry has also postponed all exams of higher education scheduled in May.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ramesh-pokhriyal-to-hold-meeting-with-vcs-of-central-universities-on-tuesday-101621308729994.html
18-05-2021||India||Eminent cardiologist Dr KK Aggarwal dies of Covid-19||Padma Shri awardee and eminent cardiologist Dr KK Aggarwal has died of Covid-19, a statement posted on his Twitter handle said.Aggarwal (62), who was the former national president of the Indian Medical Association (IMA), was admitted to the AIIMS here and was on ventilator support since last week.According to the statement, he passed away at 11.30 pm on Monday after a "lengthy battle with Covid-19"."Even during the pandemic, he made constant efforts to educate the masses and was able to reach out to 100 million people through numerous videos and educational programmes and saved countless lives. He wanted his life to be celebrated and not mourned," the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/eminent-cardiologist-dr-kk-aggarwal-dies-of-covid19-101621308451193.html
18-05-2021||India||Calcutta HC sends TMC leaders to jail after CBI cites Mamata Banerjee’s dharna||The Calcutta high court on Monday night stayed the bail granted to two TMC ministers, a legislator and former leader of the party in the Narada sting operation case after the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) requested transfer of the case citing a security threat to officers of the probe agency.To back its contention, the CBI cited chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s visit to the CBI office at Nizam Palace in south Kolkata and demonstration by TMC workers, some of whom also pelted stones, after urban development minister Firhad Hakim, panchayat minister Subrata Mukherjee, Kamarhati MLA Madan Mitra and former Kolkata mayor Sovan Chatterjee, who left the ruling party, were arrested from their homes on Monday morning. The TMC workers assembled outside Nizam Palace after the accused were brought there.The accused leaders were taken to Presidency correctional home around 1.30 am on Tuesday. The convoy of cars left Nizam Palace amid tight security after their mandatory health examination.Also Watch | Narada Case: Arrested TMC leaders taken to jail after CBI challenged their bailChallenging the bail granted to the accused by the special CBI court in Kolkata during a virtual hearing on Monday afternoon, the CBI told the bench of acting chief justice Rajesh Bindal and justice Arijit Banerjee that the CM sat on a “dharna” outside the CBI office with her supporters and law minister Moloy Ghatak was present at the CBI court, where the accused were to be physically presented, “along with 2,000 to 3,000 supporters.”The agency also alleged that TMC Lok Sabha member Kalyan Bandopadhyay forcibly entered the CBI office and heckled the officers and staff.The order of the high court was available late on Monday night. The CBI was represented by Tushar Mehta, solicitor general of India and Y J Dastoor, additional solicitor general. The state was represented by Kishore Dutta, advocate general and some other senior lawyers. The case was heard virtually. The court described it as an “extraordinary situation.”Adjourning the hearing till Wednesday and ordering judicial custody for the accused, the court said, “In our opinion aforesaid facts are sufficient to take cognizance of the present matter with reference to the request of the learned Solicitor General of India for examination of the issue regarding transfer of the trial. We are not touching the merits of the controversy but the manner in which pressure was sought to be put will not inspire confidence of the people in the rule of law. As during the period when the arguments were heard, the order was passed by the Court below, we deem it appropriate to stay that order and direct that the accused person shall be treated to be in judicial custody till further orders.”The order said Dastoor told the bench that a mail from the CBI “pointed out certain glaring facts regarding the manner in which the chief minister, law minister and other senior ministers of the government in the state of West Bengal, along with their supporters in thousands, were obstructing CBI in discharge of its official duties.”“Immediately after their arrest, as they are political leaders of the party in power in the state, [a] number of followers gheraoed the CBI office in Nizam Palace area and did not allow the CBI officers to move out of their office to enable them to produce the accused in court. The matter did not end here. The chief minister of West Bengal Smt. Mamta Banerjee also arrived at the spot at 10.50 hours and sat on dharna along with the mob. Unconditional release of the accused was sought from the CBI office itself. It was under these circumstances that the matter was mentioned before this Court immediately in the afternoon today seeking a direction to the state to allow the CBI to discharge its function and enable them to produce the accused in court,” said the high court, referring to Dastoor’s prayer.The court also noted that the SG had submitted that the CBI had registered the case on the court’s direction and arrested some members of the state cabinet, but their supporters surrounded the CBI office in protest. “The crowd was 2,000 to 3,000. Stone pelting was resorted to. Some of the supporters even entered the office of CBI and manhandled the staff present there,” the court said, referring to Mehta’s argument.“It is a case in which there is total failure of rule of law. The justice is not only to be done but seen to have been done. It is a case in which pressure was sought to be put on the officer concerned with [the] mob and the chief minister and the law minister and other ministers directly present there along with [the] mob. Referring to the provisions of Section 407 Cr.P.C., he submitted that the provision clearly provides for different situations under which trial of the case can be transferred by this Court. In case there is apprehension that fair and impartial trial is not possible or it is expedient in the ends of justice. This power can be exercised even suo-motu by this Court seeing the entire facts situation,” the court said, referring to Mehta’s argument.Section 407 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (Cr.PC) empowers a high court to transfer the hearing of a case on several grounds including the possibility of law and order problem.The advocate general countered Mehta’s arguments and demand for transfer of the case.“As the issue of law and order in the state had arisen, the learned advocate general was requested to assist the Court. He submitted that Nizam Palace where the CBI office is situated, the major part of it is protected by para military forces. Whenever any senior leader of the party is arrested, supporters always collect there. Senior police officers along with 100 police officials were on duty and no untoward incident was allowed to happen. CBI officers were provided full protection by the local police for discharge of their duty. There is no official complaint filed by the CBI with the police about any incident,” said the court citing the advocate general’s argument.The court went on to note that while the state government argued against transfer of enquiry or trial of the case citing necessary procedure and pre-conditions, the CBI said it could be done by the court if it was “expedient in the ends of justice” while citing Mamata Banerjee’s presence outside the CBI office as “a sufficient ground for transfer of the case”.Taking cognizance of the arguments from both sides the judges observed that the incidents can erode people’s confidence in the justice system.“In these facts and circumstances, if any order is passed by the Court the same will not have faith and confidence of the people in the system of administration of justice. Confidence of the people in the justice system will be eroded in case such types of incidents are allowed to happen in the matters where political leaders are arrested and are to be produced in the Court. Public trust and confidence in the judicial system is more important, it being the last resort. They may have a feeling that it is not rule of law which prevails but it is a mob which has an upper hand and especially in a case where it is led by the Chief Minister of the State in the office of CBI and by the Law Minister of the State in the Court Complex,” the court said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/calcutta-hc-sends-tmc-leaders-to-jail-after-cbi-cites-mamata-banerjee-s-dharna-101621308252805.html
18-05-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 9 am: Portals of Badrinath temple reopened on Tuesday and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9 AM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Badrinath temple in Uttarakhand opens portals, day after KedarnathThe portals of the holy Badrinath temple in Uttarakhand were reopened in the early morning hours of Tuesday, a day after the Kedarnath shrine in the hill state, too, reopened with strict protocols due to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. Read morePM Modi to interact with state, district officials on Covid-19 managementPrime Minister Narendra Modi will on Tuesday interact with field officials from states and districts to know about their experience in handling the Covid-19 situation. Read moreIndia calls for end to violence in Israel, GazaIndia has strongly condemned all acts of violence and provocation in the Gaza conflict and called for immediate de-escalation while urging Israel and Palestinian authorities to immediately resume dialogue to find a lasting solution. Read moreAfter Maruti, Hero MotoCorp too extends production shutdown amid Covid surgeWorld's largest two-wheeler manufacturer Hero MotoCorp has decided to extend shutdown across its facilities which had begun in April. The decision comes as the country is still trying to cope with the surge in Covid-19 cases in the past few weeks. Read more‘He batted as he does for Australia’: Sunil Gavaskar names RCB’s surprise package in IPL 2021Virat Kohli’s Royal Challengers Bangalore looked completely different in the Indian Premier League (IPL) 2021. Unlike the previous editions, they posed serious threats to the opponents this year. They had a terrific start to their campaign as they experienced a defeat after winning five games in a row. Unfortunately, the season was suspended after several players and support staff tested positive to Covid-19. Read moreAmitabh Bachchan's Janak flooded as Cyclone Tauktae hits Mumbai, shelters for staff blown awayAmitabh Bachchan's office, named Janak, was flooded Monday night when Cyclone Tauktae hit Mumbai, the actor revealed in his latest blog entry. He also said that he offered his own collection of team Tshirts of Abhishek Bachchan's Pink Panthers team to the staff members who got drenched while repairing the damages. Read moreMillennial pop icon Ariana Grande marries beau Dalton Gomez in intimate ceremonyAriana Grande is a newlywed. A representative for the singer confirmed that she recently married real estate agent Dalton Gomez. Read moreWatch: Israel forces release more airstrike videos as Gaza tension continuesAmid Israel-Palestine tension, Israel military released more footage of airstrikes in Gaza. Israel claimed to have targeted a key Hamas facility. Hamas is a militant group which wants Islamist Palestinian state. Watch more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9-am-portals-of-badrinath-temple-reopened-on-tuesday-and-all-the-latest-news-101621304532080.html
18-05-2021||India||Navy seeks amendment to 30-year submarine plan, wants six nuclear boats||The Indian Navy has approached the Narendra Modi government for approval to make changes in the Cabinet Committee of Security (CCS) approved 30-year submarine building plan by replacing six conventional attack vessels with nuclear powered platforms in the context of changing strategic scenario in Indo-Pacific.The 30-year submarine plan was approved by Atal Bihari Vajpayee government in July 1999 for induction of 24 diesel attack submarines. As of now, the Indian Navy has 12 ageing conventional attack submarines plus three new Kalvari class submarines, first of which was commissioned in December 2017 as part of the ₹23,652 crore project approved way back in 2005.It is understood that the navy has sought the Cabinet approval to allow it new submarine force levels of 18 conventional diesel attack submarines including those with air independent propulsion and six nuclear attack submarines or SSNs. This change has been sought keeping in mind the rapid increase of nuclear submarine arsenal by People’s Liberation Army Navy (PLAN) and to protect the Indo-Pacific from future domination by the adversary.As of now, the India has one Akula class submarine INS Chakra on lease from Russian Federation and one ballistic missile firing submarine INS Arighat. The two are under the Strategic Forces Command. All the ballistic missile firing submarines also called SSBNs are outside the purview of Indian Navy and with Strategic Forces Command.According to national security planners, once the Modi government approves the changes to the 30-year-old plan, the Indian Navy will move the Defence Ministry for acceptance of necessity (AON) before inviting request for proposals from the key allies for joint development and building of the six nuclear powered submarines under the Atmanirbhar Bharat route. The project will take a minimum of 10 years to complete as per Indian Navy estimates.While the Indian Navy wanted six more AIP equipped diesel submarines to be added to complete the 30 year submarine force levels, the national security planners convinced the Admirals that nuclear attack submarine is a much more potent platform with the capacity to stay below surface for months and only surface for crew change and logistics. The equatorial waters of Indian Ocean make submarines a very potent weapon due to temperature differences on surface and below water. This causes total internal reflection due to changes in medium and makes submarines in equatorial waters the most difficult to detect. It is due to this phenomenon that the SSNs will act as a deterrent for both sea access and sea denial to the adversary.With the Defence Research and Development Organization (DRDO) being able to indigenously develop the AIP technology, all the INS Kalvari class submarines will be retrofitted with the new technology during upgrades or mid-life refits. The Indian Navy too will be taking an orbital jump by moving from diesel submarines to nuclear powered and conventional cruise missile equipped platforms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/navy-seeks-amendment-to-30-year-submarine-plan-wants-six-nuclear-boats-101621307478586.html
18-05-2021||India||Cyclone Tauktae weakens; heavy rains likely over Saurashtra today||Tauktae has weakened from extremely severe cyclonic storm to a very severe cyclonic storm early this morning, following landfall over Gujarat coast.At 5.30am, it was about 95 km north-northeast of Diu and 10 km south of Amreli. As per India Meteorological Department’s 7am bulletin, the intensity at the centre of the storm is 115 to 125 kmph gusting to 135 kmph. Tauktae is likely to weaken to a severe cyclonic storm during in the next few hours. Heavy to very heavy rain with extremely heavy rainfall is likely over Saurashtra and parts of coastal Gujarat today.Also Read | Cyclone Tauktae weakens, rain forecast in Rajasthan towns: 10 pointsGale winds of 115 to 125 kmph gusting to 135 kmph is likely to prevail along and off Gujarat coast at Amreli, Bhavnagar, Botad etc; 100 to 120 kmph wind speed is likely over Diu, Gir Somnath, Junagarh, Surendra Nagar, Rajkot, Bharuch, Anand etc.After the landfall which has been completed this morning, the system is very likely to re-curve north-northeastwards, across Gujarat and weaken gradually. It is likely to maintain the intensity of cyclonic storm till today evening and thereafter, it will weaken gradually into a depression over south Rajasthan. Under its influence, light to moderate rainfall at most places with heavy to very heavy rainfall at a few places very likely over interior districts of Gujarat and south Rajasthan today. Squally winds are likely to prevail over south Rajasthan in association with the presence of the remnant system as a depression over the region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-tauktae-weakens-heavy-rains-likely-over-saurashtra-today-101621307232655.html
18-05-2021||India||Maha daily Covid cases continue to drop, state records 26,616 fresh infections||Maharashtra recorded 26,616 new daily infections on Monday, pushing its Covid tally to 5,405,068. Active cases declined to 445,495 after 48,211 recoveries were reported in the past 24 hours.The state also saw 516 fatalities, taking the toll to 82,486. Kolhapur reported the highest toll on Monday with 101 deaths – (83 in the district and 18 in the city), followed by Solapur with 56 deaths (49 in the district and seven in the city).After three months of surge, daily cases in Maharashtra have gradually started declining. It became possible, however, only after a complete lockdown was imposed across the state on April 22. The state is now hoping for a decline of 50% in daily cases by the end of this month, officials said.Also Read | PM Modi to interact with state, district officials on Covid-19 managementFor the past four consecutive days, Maharashtra has been reporting less than 40,000 cases. On May 14, 15 and 16, it reported 39,923, 34,848, and 34,389 cases, respectively. On April 18, the state saw the highest daily surge of 68,631 cases which is also been seen as the peak of the second wave. Till May 1, the tally of daily cases was more than 60,000 cases.The daily positivity rate of the state is also on decline as it was 15.91%, 14.68%, and 12.99% on May 14, 15 and 16, respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maha-daily-covid-cases-continue-to-drop-state-records-26-616-fresh-infections-101621306692574.html
18-05-2021||India||Health ministry releases list of blood clot symptoms to watch out for after taking Covishield||The Union health ministry said on Monday that the number of blood clot cases in people who received AstraZeneca's Covid-19 vaccine (called Covishield) in India was "minuscule". Covishield - one of three shots granted emergency approval in India - is the most widely used in the country and is manufactured by Pune-based Serum Institute (SII).Watch: NITI Aayog explains Covishield dose gap increase to 10-12 week"AEFI (Adverse Event Following Immunisation) data in India showed that there is a very miniscule but definitive risk of thromboembolic events," the health ministry said in a statement, citing a report by the National AEFI Committee.Also Read: Details of thromboembolic events after Covid-19 vaccinationThromboembolic events refer to the formation of a clot in a blood vessel that might also break loose and be carried by the bloodstream to plug another vessel.The ministry separately released advisories to healthcare workers and vaccine beneficiaries to encourage people to be aware of suspected thromboembolic symptoms. These symptoms, the ministry said, occur within 20 days of taking a shot (particularly Covishield) and asked the beneficiaries to report to the health facility where vaccine was administered.The list of symptoms mentioned in the ministry's advisory are:According to the AEFI Committee, it has completed an in-depth case review of 498 serious and severe events, of which 26 cases have been reported to be potential thromboembolic (formation of a clot in a blood vessel that might also break loose and carried by the bloodstream to plug another vessel) events - following the administration of Covishield vaccine - with a reporting rate of 0.61 cases per million doses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-lists-blood-clot-symptoms-to-watch-out-for-after-taking-covishield-101621306176186.html
18-05-2021||India||Assam to ban inter-district movement to contain record rise in Covid cases||Assam government on Monday decided to suspend inter-district movement of persons and vehicles for 15 days beginning May 21 amid a record number of Covid-19 cases and deaths in the state. “It has been observed that with unabated inter-district movement, the Covid-19 containment measures are not yielding the desired level of reduction of cases,” said the fresh order by Assam State Disaster Management Authority (ASDMA). Assam on Monday recorded 6,394 new Covid-19 infections and 92 deaths—most in a day since the pandemic started last year. The positivity rate, which was hovering between 8% and 9% in the past few days, however, dipped to 6.99% with 91,481 tests being conducted over the period. The restrictions on inter-state movement will not apply to government officials, emergency and essential services, travel for medical emergencies and Covid-19 vaccination etc. Movement of goods will also remain unaffected. Those requiring travel for medical emergencies, last rites will be allowed with written permission from the authorities of the originating district. The state government has decided to provide food items worth ₹2,000 to poor and economically weak households in containment zones. To ensure early detection of Covid-19 cases, the government has decided to conduct around 100,000 Covid tests daily from Monday. While suggestions have been made that imposition of total lockdown, at least for a week, is needed to control the rising Covid cases, the new government in the state has decided against it, till now. “We haven’t imposed a total lockdown as we are also concerned about the livelihoods of people. We are trying to create a mid-way between economic activity and Covid control. If that process fails and Covid-19 cases continue to rise, we might have to consider a total lockdown,” chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma told HT on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-to-ban-inter-district-movement-to-contain-record-rise-in-covid-cases-101621304772843.html
18-05-2021||India||PM Modi to interact with state, district officials on Covid-19 management||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will on Tuesday interact with field officials from states and districts to know about their experience in handling the Covid-19 situation.According to a statement issued by the Prime Minister's Office (PMO), officials from Karnataka, Bihar, Assam, Chandigarh, Tamil Nadu, Uttarakhand, Madhya Pradesh, Goa, Himachal Pradesh and Delhi will take part in the meeting."Through their interaction with the Prime Minister, the officials will share some best practices, in addition to suggestions and recommendations for continuing our ongoing battle against Covid-19, especially in semi-urban and rural areas," the statement addedThe PMO said that the battle against Covid-19 across various states and districts is being led at the cutting edge by field-level officials, adding that many of them have shown great initiative and come out with imaginative solutions. "A better appreciation of such initiatives will help towards developing an effective response plan, targeted strategy implementation and support necessary policy interventions," it added.The statement further said that many effective measures have been taken to deal with the pandemic like ensuring that strict containment measures are undertaken to control the spread, preparing healthcare facilities for handling the raging second wave of Covid-19, ensuring availability of healthcare workforce and a seamless supply chain for logistics."Those districts in their relentless efforts to manage the situation also have success stories that could be replicated across the country," the statement||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-interact-with-state-district-officials-on-covid-19-management-101621303283110.html
18-05-2021||India||Not deferring privacy policy, WhatsApp tells Delhi high court||Messaging service provider WhatsApp told the Delhi high court on Monday that it has not decided to defer the roll-out of a contentious privacy policy, and will continue to “persuade” users to accept it before their accounts are eventually deleted if they don’t comply.The company has been under fire for the new privacy policy that critics say will allow it to share more data with its parent Facebook without giving users the opportunity to opt out. It has been challenged in court for abusing its market dominance, and the Union government has said the policy violates rules framed under Information Technology Act.WhatsApp has defended its decision, saying the concerns stemmed from misinformation and the data that would be shared is limited to users interactions with business accounts.The high court on Monday refrained from ordering a stay on the implementation of the policy. A bench of chief justice DN Patel and justice Jyoti Singh was informed by senior advocate Kapil Sibal, for WhatsApp, that contrary to reports, it is not deferring its update on the privacy policy which has come into force from May 15. He said it would not straightaway delete the accounts and would rather persuade people to come on board. But, if the users are not convinced, slowly their accounts would be deleted, he added.The platform also said there was no universal or uniform time limit after which it will start to delete accounts as each user would be dealt with on a case-to-case basis. “We have asked users to agree to policy. If they don’t agree we will delete them... there is no deferment of policy,” Sibal told the court.The policy was first disclosed last year and was meant to be rolled out in January. The plan triggered a strong backlash and an exodus of users to other apps, after which WhatsApp deferred the deadline.Appearing for the Centre, additional solicitor general (ASG) Chetan Sharma said the privacy policy is in violation of Indian IT laws and rules.He said the Union government has written to Facebook chief executive Mark Zuckerberg on the issue and a reply is awaited and therefore, there was a need to maintain status quo with regard to implementation of the policy.WhatsApp, opposing the contention, said it was conforming to Indian IT law and rules and added that its policy has come into effect from May 15, but that it won’t be deleting accounts right away.The ASG urged the court to record the statement of WhatsApp’s counsel that the firm will conform to Indian law and maintain status quo where neither the account nor the data is deleted if they revoke permission/consent for the new policy.To this, Sibal said, “No no…we are not making any such statement. It is as good as taking a stay.”The bench, refrained from passing any order, and posted the matter on June 3 for final arguments on the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-deferring-privacy-policy-whatsapp-tells-delhi-high-court-101621302295313.html
18-05-2021||India||Cyclone Tauktae weakens, rain forecast in Rajasthan towns: 10 points||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Tuesday said that Cyclone Tauktae, which has impacted several states on the western coast of India, is now showing a weakening trend."The Cyclone continues to show weakening trend. Eye is disorganising, wall cloud is weakening," the Met department said in a tweet.Cyclone Tauktae has damaged several structures, electricity lines and uprooted many trees in various states while moving towards Gujarat.Here are the latest updates on Cyclone Tauktae:. At least 60 people from Barge P305 have been rescued till 11pm last night by INS Kochi and 18 by an offshore support vessel in challenging sea conditions, due to Cyclone Tauktae, a defence PRO was quoted as saying by news agency ANI. The official also said that INS Kolkata joined in for search and rescue of remaining crew..It was one of the two barges which went adrift off the Mumbai coast as the cyclone intensified on Monday. Search and rescue operation Barge P305 continued through the night by INS Kochi and INS Kolkata, the defenc eofficial said.. The National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) team in Maharashtra cleared fallen trees and branches from a road in Dahisar area of Mumbai, last night..Army personnel last night cleared the road between Gujarat's Somnath district and Diu, which was blocked due to fallen trees. Vehicular movement resumed soon after..Rain and gusty winds were seen in Una town of Saurashtra near Diu, at midnight..Following the cyclone, several places near Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan are likely to witness rainfall in the next couple of hours. The IMD said that light to moderate intensity rain would occur over isolated places of Uttar Pradesh's Firozabad, Hathras, Narora, Raya, Iglas, Aligarh, Atrauli, Kashganj, Mathura, Sahaswan, Etah, Nandgaon, Barsana, Jahangirabad, Khurja, Pahasu, Tundla, Agra, Jattari, Sikandra Rao and Jajau..In view of Cyclone Taukate, Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani last night held a meeting with officials of the coastal districts of Valsad and Gir Somnath at the state control room in Gandhinagar.. As many as 11 Indian Navy Diving Teams have been kept on standby and 12 flood rescue teams and medical teams have been designated for immediate response and deployment keeping in view of the cyclone..The Indian Coast Guard Ship Samarth rescued 15 crew from a fishing boat named Milad, off Goa coast on Monday late night as the cyclone with winds gusting up to 185 km per hour began making landfall on Gujarat's Saurashtra coast near Diu..Two more Indian Coast Guard Ships at sea were diverted and directed to rush to Bombay High off Heera oil fields for rescue operations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-tauktae-weakens-rain-forecast-in-rajasthan-towns-10-points-101621300519048.html
18-05-2021||India||12 dead as Cyclone Tauktae leaves a trail of destruction||A day after cyclone Tauktae crossed the coastal areas of Karnataka and Goa, many places in the two states witnessed power and internet connectivity issues on Monday, even as some areas remained inaccessible due to trees blocking highways.Officials in the disaster management department of the two states said the assessment of the damage caused by the gusty winds of 120-140kmph could be done only in a few days. Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant tweeted that PM Narendra Modi has assured assistance to the state in its recovery efforts. “Hon’ble Prime Minster @narendramodi ji personally called to enquire about the impact of cyclone Tauktae on the state of Goa. He has assured all possible assistance from the Central Government.”Also Read| Cyclone Tauktae: Rapid intensity takes experts by surpriseIn Karnataka, heavy rainfall and gusty winds continued to lash the coastal districts of Udupi, Dakshina Kannada and Uttara Kannada. Loss of life and property was reported from three districts in the Malnad region -- Kodagu, Chikmagalur and Shivamogga.Officials said at least six people died due to the cyclone and its impact and 333 homes were damaged. Around 57km of roads have been damaged and 547 people have been evacuated so far, according to data from the state disaster management.The cyclone claimed two lives in Goa and injured three others while causing damage to scores of houses, power and mobile connectivity infrastructure, which the CM said, would take at least two days to restore.Also Read| Gujarat braces as Cyclone Tauktae makes night approachIn Kerala, the first state to see the impact of the cyclone, continued to be battered by high tides and winds even two days after Tauktae moved upwards. Officials said four people died in two days and over 5,000 are still lining in relief camps after their dwellings were damaged. The cyclone comes as a double whammy to the states which continue to reel under the grip of the pandemic that has now started showing signs of a surge in rural areas, including those impacted by the cyclone. The cyclone has thrown life out of gear in these districts, impacting Covid norms, said people familiar with the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/12-dead-as-cyclone-tauktae-leaves-a-trail-of-destruction-101621301419137.html
18-05-2021||India||Smiling Buddha: How India successfully conducted first nuclear test in Pokhran||India is observing the 47th anniversary of its first nuclear test in Rajasthan's Pokhran on Tuesday. It made India a nuclear power.The test was codenamed 'Smiling Buddha' and conducted on May 18, 1974. The name was chosen because the test was conducted on Buddha Purnima that year. “The Buddha has finally smiled” was the message conveyed by Raja Ramanna, the director of India’s premier nuclear research institute Bhabha Atomic Research Centre (BARC) to Prime Minister Indira Gandhi.It was the first confirmed nuclear test by a nation that was not a permanent member of the United Nations Security Council (UNSC).Though the yield of the device detonated at Pokhran is debated, it is believed that the actual yield was around 8-12 Kilotons of TNT. The highlight of the test was that India had managed to avoid detection by the United States and other intelligence agencies.The country also faced a series of sanctions from national like the United States which said that such tests can lead to nuclear proliferation.It took a nearly two-year preparation for India to conduct this test. Indira Gandhi had authorised scientists at BARC to detonate an indigenously designed nuclear device in September, 1972.After 1974, India again nuclear tests at same location (called Pokhran-II tests) in 1998 when Atal Bihari Vajpayee was the prime minister. The tests saw a series of five nuclear explosions, in May 1998 at Pokhran. National Technology Day is observed every year on May 11 as a reminder of the anniversary of the Pokhran-II tests.Last year, when India marked the anniversary of the 1974 Pokhran tests, it was facing extremely severe cyclonic storm Amphan, which hit West Bengal and Bangladesh coasts. This year, the country is faced with mitigiating the effects of another cyclone Tauktae, which has wreaked havoc in states along its western coast.Lakhs of people have been evacuated from the coastal areas in states like Maharashtra and Gujarat. The Centre is coordinating with the state governments affected by the cyclone in rescue and relief operations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/smiling-buddha-how-india-successfully-conducted-first-nuclear-test-in-pokhran-101621301524390.html
18-05-2021||India||Defence minister reviews prep for Cyclone Tauktae, navy warships kept on standby||With Tauktae intensifying from a very severe to an extremely severe cyclonic storm, defence minister Rajnath Singh on Monday reviewed the military’s preparations to provide humanitarian assistance and disaster relief to states affected by the cyclone even as warships and rescue teams are on standby for relief work, officials familiar with the development said.Three warships (Talwar, Tarkash and Tabar) are on standby with relief material for immediate assistance to affected areas if required, the defence ministry said in a statement, adding that more warships can be diverted for stranded fishing boats.The minister said at the meeting that 11 Indian Navy diving teams have also been kept on standby.“Twelve flood rescue teams and medical teams have been earmarked for immediate response and deployment...”The navy’s maritime reconnaissance aircraft are also broadcasting warnings to fishermen.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/defence-minister-reviews-prep-for-cyclone-tauktae-navy-warships-kept-on-standby-101621301461973.html
18-05-2021||India||Drink cow urine to prevent Covid: BJP MP Pragya Thakur; experts reject remark||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) parliamentarian Pragya Thakur has said that drinking cow urine can help prevent coronavirus disease (Covid-19), adding that her remark had “scientific backing”.Addressing party workers in Bhopal on Sunday, Thakur said: “I consumed cow urine daily and it is a kind of acid which purifies my body. It also purifies the lungs and saves me from Covid-19 infection. I don’t take any medicine against corona but I am safe.”The 51-year-old MP received criticism after a video of her remark went viral. She, however, defended the statement.“ I have recommended these because they have scientific backing. Research has already established it,” she said.Health experts, however, warned against relying on what they called “unscientific claims” amid the second wave of the pandemic.“At least, now these leaders should stop recommending unscientific treatments,” Dr Ranjan Sharma, president Indian Medical Association said. htc||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/drink-cow-urine-to-prevent-covid-bjp-mp-pragya-thakur-experts-reject-remark-101621298599190.html
18-05-2021||India||Arrests over PM Modi's posters ‘illegal’, says plea in Supreme Court||A Delhi-based lawyer has filed a public interest litigation (PIL) in the Supreme Court seeking to quash over two dozen criminal cases lodged against people who pasted posters across the National Capital Region questioning Prime Minister Narendra Modi over the shortage of Covid-19 vaccine doses in the country.Terming the arrests “illegal”, the petitioner, Pradeep Kumar Yadav, has urged the court to direct the commissioner of the Delhi Police and the director general of the UP Police to not register any further first information reports (FIRs) in this matter, and has called for the records relating to the 25 FIRs registered so far. According to the petition, most of the people arrested by the Delhi Police were daily wage workers who were hired to put up posters and banners that said, “Modiji hamare bachhon ki vaccine videsh kyun bhej diya (Modi ji, why did you send the vaccines meant for our children to foreign countries?)”. Police have arrested 24 people in connection with the matter, and most have been released on bail, the petitioner stated quoting news reports.“The petitioner is seeking the intervention of this court into the 24 arrests in Delhi over posters against the Prime Minister on the vaccination policy. At least 25 First Information Reports (FIR) have been registered in connection with posters that surfaced across the capital questioning Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the vaccination policy in a sarcastic tone,” the plea said. It argued that the action by police was contrary to the court’s recent direction restraining police from registering any criminal case against the public for seeking medical help over social media.The petition has not been filed at the instance of any of the accused. The matter is yet to come up for hearing.The FIRs in the case largely relate to IPC Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), Section 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of any disease dangerous to life), Section 34 (common intention), besides provisions of other laws such as Delhi Prevention of Defacement of Property Act, Delhi Disaster Management Act, and Epidemic Act.Following the arrests, the ruling Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP) at the Centre has come under sharp attack from the Opposition parties, including Congress leader Rahul Gandhi posting the message on Twitter, along with an “Arrest me too” message.BJP spokesperson Anil Baluni responded by saying that Congress leaders were trying to incite people. “Instead of acting as a responsible Opposition, they are busy doing politics,” Baluni said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/arrests-over-pm-modi-s-posters-illegal-says-plea-in-supreme-court-101621293711703.html
18-05-2021||India||Extremely severe Tauktae lashes India's western coast||Hundreds of thousands of people were evacuated on Monday, with electricity supply and transport services badly hit as the most powerful Arabian Sea cyclone in over two decades barrelled up the country’s western coast, making landfall in Gujarat after leaving a trail of destruction in Kerala, Karnataka, Goa and Maharashtra, and killing at least a dozen people.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) labelled the storm as “extremely severe”, upgrading it from “very severe” earlier. The cyclone battered Mumbai with wind speeds of up to 114 kmph, causing the suspension of operations at the financial hub’s airport and flooding in many parts of the city. Electricity poles and trees were uprooted and buildings damaged in many coastal areas across states.The cyclone’s landfall began around 8.30pm, IMD said, with the outer cloud band of Tauktae lying over Saurashtra at around 9pm. The landfall process was to take about four hours, scientists said late on Monday.Also Read| Worst cyclone to come closest to Mumbai in over 40 years“On Monday morning, it intensified to an extremely severe cyclonic storm, but it weakened marginally during landfall,” said Sunitha Devi, in charge, cyclones, IMD.The maximum wind intensity at the eye of the storm at the time of the landfall was 160-170kmph, gusting to 190kmph. The system was crossing the Gujarat coast between Porbandar and Mahuva (Bhavnagar district), east of Diu, with a maximum wind speed of 155-165 kmph, gusting to 185kmph.Cyclones are low-pressure systems that form over warm tropical waters, with gale-force winds near the centre. The winds can extend hundreds of kilometres from the eye of the storm, sucking up water and later producing heavy rainfall. The latest cyclone to hit India has been given the name “Tauktae” (pronounced Tau’te) by Myanmar; it means “gecko” in the Burmese language.Heavy rainfall and high-speed winds lashed Mumbai and its adjoining districts as the cyclone moved up the western coast during the day. According to an official, six people were killed in Maharashtra’s Konkan region in separate incidents related to the severe cyclonic storm and three sailors remained missing after two boats sank in the sea.Rain from the storm earlier killed six people in Kerala, Karnataka and Goa states over the weekend.As Mumbai and other coastal areas continued to be battered with heavy rain, over 12,000 people were relocated to safer places from the coastal areas in Maharashtra.Also Read| Western coast on edge as cyclone intensifiesExperts said IMD couldn’t accurately forecast the intensity of the weather system. Reacting to the criticism, M Rajeevan, secretary, ministry of earth sciences, said: “In recent years, we are seeing very intense cyclones form over Arabian Sea; they also intensify rapidly which is what we call rapid intensification in scientific terms. It happens because ocean heat content is higher and sea surface temperatures are also higher. It’s being seen over the Atlantic and Pacific also.”The latest cyclone also put pressure on the authorities already struggling with a high caseload of Covid-19 infections. At least 17 Covid-19 patients on ventilator support in the Porbandar Civil Hospital’s ICU were shifted to other facilities on Monday as a precautionary measure because of the cyclone.Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani said all measures were being taken to deal with the situation. “These are special circumstances. The administration is busy with the Covid-19 challenges, and is now gearing up to deal with the impact of the cyclone,” said Rupani.A 1998 cyclone killed at least 4,000 people and caused heavy monetary loss in Gujarat. The scale of the damage from the latest cyclone in the state wasn’t immediately clear as the landfall process was still ongoing at the time of going to press.The cyclone earlier forced the evacuation of over 150,000 people in Gujarat alone and left two barges with 410 people on board adrift in the Arabian Sea.The Centre offered all help to Gujarat to deal with the cyclone and asked the army, navy and the air force to remain on standby to assist the administration if the need arises, the Gujarat government said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi and home minister Amit Shah were in touch with the state government and extended all possible help, said Rupani.Gujarat and Mumbai both suspended their vaccination drives on Monday due to the storm.Vineet Kumar, researcher on cyclones at the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology, tweeted: “For the first time after 1976 and only second time since 1900 a cyclone which formed in May is going to hit Gujarat coast with wind speed greater than 35 knots (65 kmph) as per IMD cyclone e-Atlas.” He also tweeted that Tauktae, with a wind speed of 120 knots (222 kmph), was the strongest pre-monsoon Arabian Sea cyclone after 2010 and the third most intense pre-monsoon Arabian Sea cyclone in the satellite era (1982 onwards), as per the Joint Typhoon Warning Center.Also Read| Gujarat braces as Cyclone Tauktae makes night approachOP Sreejith, Scientist E and head, Climate Monitoring and Prediction Group (CMPG), IMD Pune, said: “The 1998 Gujarat cyclone which hit Kandla was of a similar intensity. The main reason for Tauktae’s sudden intensification is high surface temperatures in the Arabian Sea.”The National Disaster Response Force said it evacuated thousands of stranded people in the last three days in Gujarat, Kerala and Daman and Diu in view of the cyclone.“Teams are continuously cutting and clearing heavy trees and electric poles that have been uprooted and crashed on roads. Extensive efforts are being made to bring the situation to normal in the affected states,” NDRF said.It added that the headquarters of the force was closely monitoring the situation through its control room and was in close touch with state authorities to tackle this “big challenge” which came when the Covid-19 pandemic was raging.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/extremely-severe-tauktae-lashes-india-s-western-coast-101621292894158.html
18-05-2021||India||‘Plasma therapy dropped from Covid-19 treatment protocol’: ICMR||India on Monday dropped convalescent plasma therapy from the list of treatments prescribed for the management of adult coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patients, a move that triggered growing evidence against the therapy benefiting Covid-19 patients in any way.The revised guidelines jointly issued by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR)-Covid-19 National Task Force, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Delhi, and Union ministry of health and family welfare, do not mention the use of convalescent plasma therapy.Convalescent plasma therapy uses a blood component called plasma rich in virus-fighting antibodies from recovered Covid-19 patients to aid the immune system in fighting off the infection. The data from the PLACID trial by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) that was conducted at 39 centres across India, was released in September last year, found that the therapy did not prevent progression to severe disease or reduce the number of deaths at 28-days of enrolment of the patient.“ICMR has made it public in the past also that the therapy isn’t of much use based on the evidence that we have, and the earlier revised guidelines were also drastically modified for reference of those wanting to administer it, with clear cut dos and don’ts mentioned under which it can be given. But now it has been deleted from the list of therapies altogether,” said one of the members of the National Task Force, who is aware of the matter, requesting anonymity. “The decision was arrived at after members underwent a detailed deliberation on the matter, going through all the evidence at their disposal from India and abroad. It was a well-thought-out decision, especially with reports of indiscriminate use of plasma therapy having come to light at some places,” the member added.The earlier guidelines allowed its off-label use which means there was limited available evidence, and only in specific circumstances.It was allowed to be used among patients having an early moderate disease (preferably within 7 days of symptom onset), with the availability of high titre donor plasma. It was clearly mentioned that the therapy had no use after 7 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/plasma-therapy-dropped-from-covid-19-treatment-protocol-icmr-101621280111457.html
18-05-2021||India||Surveys to help curb Covid spread in rural areas: K’taka CM||Bengaluru Chief minister BS Yediyurappa on Monday held a meeting with officials from various districts of the state over the surge of Covid-19 cases in rural areas and instructed them to carry out door-to-door surveys and phone triaging to contain the spread of the virus.“It was instructed to conduct house to house survey and segregating patients through phone triaging on priority,” according to a statement from the chief minister’s office (CMO) late on Monday.“It was instructed that triaging should be conducted in two levels. This should be done within two hours after receiving the test report and also while getting admitted to hospital,” the statement further said.The measures come even as rural regions in the state witness a surge of new infections in the ongoing second wave, which appears to be showing signs of stabilizing in Bengaluru but shifting to other districts.Karnataka recorded 38,603 new infections on Monday that takes its active case load to 603,639, the highest in the country.The state recorded 476 more fatalities including 239 in its capital city.After showing its biggest decline in over a month, Bengaluru recorded 13,338 new infections, indicating that the worst may still not be over for India’s IT capital.Bidar, one of the worst affected regions in the state, has seen a significant decline as the border district reported just 172 cases on Monday, according to the daily bulletin of the state health department.However, all 30 districts of Karnataka reported at least one fatality which shows the severity of the Covid-19 pandemic and its impact in the ongoing second wave of infections in the southern state and other parts of the country.“As there is a surge of cases in the villages, instruction was given to the DCs to give priority to contain (the) pandemic in villages. Action will be taken to provide test reports within 24 hours. Home isolation process to be followed strictly in rural areas,” the statement added.Karnataka is currently under lockdown-like restrictions which is scheduled to end on May 24. However, at least three ministers of the Yediyurappa government on Monday said that the lockdown should be extended.“In my personal opinion, it will be good to extend the lockdown. You have seen that in Bengaluru there were 22,000 cases which has now come to 8,000. So the lockdown has been useful,” R Ashok, the revenue minister of Karnataka said.However, Yediyurappa clarified that a decision will be taken by the cabinet just before the lockdown ends.During his meeting with district officials, Yediyurappa instructed that medicines should be purchased locally if there is a shortage.“Oxygen concentrators are being provided to all districts based on the need by the health department. Oxygen supply should be assessed in advance to ensure timely supply. In case of emergencies, it was instructed to coordinate with neighbouring districts,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/surveys-to-help-curb-covid-spread-in-rural-areas-k-taka-cm-101621279991970.html
18-05-2021||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||The seven-day average of new deaths in the US was 610 on May 16, according to the New York Times database. The seven-day average of new cases was 33,041. That translates into a Case Fatality Rate (recorded deaths/reported cases) of 1.8%.The corresponding numbers on March 16 were 1,306 and 54,949 for a CFR of 2.4%.The ratio fluctuated before that period. For instance, on February 1, these numbers were 3,160 and 146,550 for a CFR of 2.15%; and on January 9, they were 3,189 and 254,002 for a CFR of 1.25%.Barring unfortunate accidents caused by the US CDC’s recent guidelines on masks, most experts believe that this number will fall sharply in the coming weeks (many of the deaths being recorded now, they point out, are of people ailing for some time). Indeed, according to the NYT database, the seven-day average of hospitalisations was around 36,000 last week, a level last seen in September 2020. The US’s overall CFR is around 1.8%, and the ratio is soon expected to go below that.The recent drop can be attributed to vaccines.It isn’t just the US. In the UK, the seven-day average of new cases was 2,274 on May 16 (again, according to the NYT database). The seven-day average of deaths was 11. That translates into a CFR of 0.48%. That needs to be compared with the UK’s overall CFR – 2.9%. On February 1, the corresponding numbers were 18,607 and 406 for a CFR of 2.18%. According to data from the UK government, fewer than 1,000 people were in hospital on account of Covid-19 as of last week; of these, 129 were on ventilators.Again, the drop can be attributed to vaccines.Also Read| US to send FDA-authorised Covid-19 vaccines abroad for first timeIn the UK, 59% of those eligible, have received one dose of the vaccine, and 38% both. In the US, 61.1% of the adult (over 16 years) population has received at least one dose of the vaccine, and 46% both.That lengthy preamble is critical in the context of India’s own good news – a 16% fall in the weekly average of new infections for the seven days ended Sunday, and a dip in active cases (as reported by Jamie Mullick in Monday’s HT). On Sunday, for instance, India recorded 281,911 new cases, the lowest in 27 days, though the number may have been skewed downwards by a three-day weekend (Friday was a public holiday on account of Eid).It isn’t just at the national level. The number of daily new cases in Delhi on Sunday fell to 6,456, for a seven-day average of 10,043, the lowest in 33 days. Both at the national level, and in Delhi, the positivity rate (the proportion of those testing positive) has fallen sharply, with no appreciable fall in testing. Indeed, 14 of the country’s 20 major states have shown a decline in the positivity rate. Anecdotally, too, the number of distress calls on social media has fallen – and in most large cities, hospital beds are now available (although ICU ones are still a problem).If (and it’s a pretty big if at least in the mind of this columnist) the trend lasts, India’s second wave would have seen a very sharp peak. That’s true of Delhi’s fourth wave too, which started ebbing on April 24.Also Read| Pfizer, Moderna vaccines effective against Indian variants: StudyIt’s important to understand sharp peaks. They are usually unsustainable because they are usually the result of harsh non-pharmaceutical interventions such as a lockdown. In some cases, they can also be caused by faulty or disingenuous testing protocol (such as an indiscriminate use of unreliable rapid tests; poor testing spread; or the non-reporting or selective reporting of positive test results). In Delhi’s case, for instance, they are the result of a lockdown that went into place around a month ago, and which the government, on Sunday, extended till May 24.The same vaccine effect seen in the UK and the US is evident in the 60-plus population in Mumbai and Chennai, but this isn’t evident across the country (yet). For it to start having an impact, India will have to vaccinate more people (and do so fast). Until then, India will have to make sure it puts in place an early warning system (built around science, with viral genome sequencing as a key component). And until then, when infections flare up in a certain area, the only option before administrations is a lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-what-you-need-to-know-today-101621278446561.html
18-05-2021||India||TN skips Union education minister’s meeting on NEP, board exams||Chennai: Tamil Nadu school education department officials on Monday skipped a virtual meeting called by Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal with department secretaries of all states to discuss a range of issues, including implementation of New Education Policy (NEP), 2000. According to people aware of the development, this was state’s way of registering its protest against the minister’s decision to interact only with officials and not state ministers. Tamil Nadu school education minister Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi had a day ago emailed the Centre asking for him to be included in the meeting. “I had discussed this with the chief minister (MK Stalin) and he said that since this is a newly elected government we should have a direct interaction,” Poyyamozhi told reporters in Trichy on Monday. “We didn’t boycott, and this isn’t political. But we want to be able to participate and put forth our views. Since we didn’t receive any response, the state did not attend,” he added. There were three main agendas to be discussed in the meeting - implementation of the NEP, online classes during Covid-19, and possibility of conducting Class 12 board exams during the ongoing crisis. The Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) had opposed the NEP and promised a state-level education policy in its election manifesto. Poyyamozhi said in the NEP they were particularly against conducting board exams for classes 3, 5 and 8 and the three-language policy, which he said, needed to be discussed at length. “Many of our suggestions that we put forth in the draft stage of NEP were not taken into consideration,” Poyyamozhi said, adding that he would convey Tamil Nadu’s views to the Centre once they receive a response.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tn-skips-union-education-minister-s-meeting-on-nep-board-exams-101621278671800.html
18-05-2021||India||Tirupati trust, Karnataka religious body lock horns over birthplace of Hanuman||Hyderabad: Which is the birthplace of Lord Hanuman? Last month, Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD), the independent trust that administers Tirumala temple in Andhra Pradesh’s Chittoor district, claimed that the Tirumala hills was where the Hindu god was born. Now, Sri Hanumad Janmabhoomi Teertha Kshetra Trust of Kishkindha in Karnataka has strongly contested this claim, calling it “daiva droham” (betrayal of god), and asserted that the actual birthplace of Lord Hanuman is located in Pampa-kshetra (Hampi) on the banks of the Tungabhadra River. TTD isn’t willing to withdraw its claim yet and has said that it has all the evidence to prove that Anjanadri, one of the seven hills of Tirumala, is the birthplace of the god, but if the Karnataka trust has any evidence to the contrary, it should share it by May 20. TTD made its claim in a booklet it released on April 13, coinciding with the Ugadi festival (Telugu New Year). It was based on a report submitted by an eight-member expert committee formed in December 2020 and headed by Professor Sannidhanam Sudarshana Sharma, vice-chancellor of Sri Venkateshwara Vedic University. The panel met several times and gathered evidence from scriptures before submitting its report to TTD’s executive officer, K S Jawahar Reddy. In the first week of May, the Karnataka trust sent a six-page, strongly worded letter authored by Govindananda Saraswati Swamy, the founding trustee, to TTD. Copies of it were also marked to the governors and chief ministers of Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, and Tamil Nadu. Swamy dismissed the TTD report as misleading and claimed that his trust had all the evidence to prove that Lord Hanuman was born at Kishkindha hills at Pampa-kshetra in Koppal district. He quoted from the Valmiki Ramayana and other scriptures to buttress his claim. “We are ready for any debate on the subject. We give seven days’ time to TTD to reply to this letter. Otherwise, we will declare TTD and its expert team offenders. We won’t file any police complaint against TTD as our aim is to make them realise the factual position,” Swamy wrote. TTD picked up the gauntlet and announced that it was ready for a debate. On May 7, V Muralidhar Sharma, project officer of National Sanskrit University under TTD, answered the Karnataka trust’s letter and refuted the charges levelled against TTD. He said the committee had done extensive research for four months and gathered mythological, literary, archaeological, and geographical evidence to conclude that Tirumala, also mentioned as Anjanadri in ancient scriptures, was the birthplace of Lord Hanuman. “We have submitted all the evidence that we gathered to the Karnataka trust and asked it to submit objections, if any, to TTD before May 20. We are awaiting their reply,” Sharma said. Senior Bharatiya Janata Party leader and former TTD trust board member G Bhanuprakash Reddy said the controversy over Lord Hanuman’s birthplace was totally unwarranted. “TTD has come out with certain proof. If the Karnataka trust has any other evidence to counter TTD’s claims, it should disclose it instead of making wild allegations,” Reddy said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tirupati-trust-karnataka-religious-body-lock-horns-over-birthplace-of-hanuman-101621278611521.html
18-05-2021||India||Covid protocol being followed at TN manufacturing units: HC told||Chennai: Automobile major Renault-Nissan and Wipro Infrastructure in their affidavits submitted to the Madras high court on Monday said that Covid-19 protocol is being maintained at their manufacturing units to ensure the safety of all workers. The companies submitted the affidavits in response to petitions filed by workers of Renault vehicle manufacturing facility at Oragadam and Wipro at Irungattukottai. The petitioners had approached the court against the state government granting exemption to automobile and certain industries from the ongoing lockdown. The petitioners complained that contract labourers and trainees are being exploited and that transport facilities are not made available to them despite their daily attendance. A bench comprising Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy in its orders said that it appears that it’s a policy decision of the state to allow certain industries to function and due consideration would have been given to choose those industries. “...unless it is shown that such a decision is absurd to the meanest mind, the court in exercise of the authority under Article 226 of the Constitution may not seek to interfere in such a case,” the bench said. While noting that the state should take immediate steps in case safety norms aren’t followed in the exempted industries, the court adjourned the hearing to May 24 for the state to file its affidavit. Covid preparedness Taking up the hearing on a suo motu case registered to monitor preparedness for the Covid-19 second wave in Tamil Nadu and Puducherry, the bench said in its orders that it is unlikely that a full-fledged vaccination drive can be undertaken before adequate supplies are received for Tamil Nadu. The court also noted that the Central government has filed papers disclosing a letter of May 16 issued by the department of pharmaceuticals and the ministry of health and family welfare enclosing an allocation and supply plan up to May 23. The state-wise allocation of the Remdesivir drug till May 23 indicated 3,50,000 vials for Tamil Nadu and 22,000 for Puducherry. “There appear to be certain anomalies in the distribution, particularly on the basis of the positive cases in several states, and learned Additional Solicitor-General (R Sankaranarayanan) has been requested to look into the basis for the allocation,” the orders read. From the papers, the court observed that the country is dependent on the import of Tocilizumab drug but the Drugs Controller General indicates availability of alternative domestically produced drugs, such as Itilizumab, Dexamethasone and Methylprednisolone, which are either equivalent to or better than Tocilizumab. Based on arguments from other lawyers and a citizen appearing in the suo motu case, the court directed the state to look into oxygen allocated to private hospitals and address oxygen needs of those who do not have Covid-19, such as elderly and patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. Senior advocate and DMK Rajya Sabha MP, P Wilson, submitted during the hearing to consider releasing all prisoners in Tamil Nadu jails on temporary bail. To this, the bench stated that high-powered committees at the instance of the Tamil Nadu State Legal Services Authority and the Puducherry Legal Services Authority should be revived to ensure that there is no overcrowding in the correctional homes. The court said that particularly undertrials “may be released temporarily on the same lines as indicated in the relevant orders passed by the Supreme Court on March 23, 2020 and May 7, 2021 in Suo Motu Writ Petition (C) No.1 of 2020.” The case has been adjourned to May 20. Judicial work in subordinate courts suspended Due to the virus spread, the chief justice passed another separate order saying that all judicial work in subordinate courts of Tamil Nadu and Puducherry will be suspended except for remand purposes and unavoidable matters. Litigants and staff have been instructed not to enter court unless necessary and with permission of judge in-charge. The court also directed the state government to suspend all eviction and demolition drives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-protocol-being-followed-at-tn-manufacturing-units-hc-told-101621278610914.html
18-05-2021||India||Don’t inhale steam without medical advice: TN health minister||Chennai: Tamil Nadu health minister M Subramanian on Monday warned against steam inhalation as a precautionary measure against Covid-19 without medical advice.Subramanian was at the inauguration of a Covid care centre in Chennai when he made the remarks, keeping in mind that the virus affects the lungs. In a statement released later, he said: “There are high chances of the virus spreading to the next person when people inhale. This isn’t considered to be a medically approved treatment method. People are resorting to self-medication practices like inhaling steam based on messages that are spreading in social media.”His comments were specifically aimed at “hot pressurised air “ produced by machines. They are in sync with what medical science says -- steam , inhaled the right way, can ease congestion but it cannot prevent Covid-19.Subramanian’s remarks come a day after the government railway police at Chennai’s MGR Central railway station set up facilities and encouraged passengers to use portable steam inhalers as part of its drive against Covid-19. He appealed to organisations to refrain from setting up such facilities in public places and said there were other ways to help them during the pandemic.The health minister added that the state’s Covid care centres which offer Siddha treatment (a traditional system of medicine like ayurveda) to asymptomatic as well as patients with mild symptoms do so under medical supervision and on the advice of a government medical committee.Doctors also believe that people must consult physicians before opting for steam inhalation. “Steam inhalation is indicated when there is nasal congestion, so the steam released liquifies things like the mucus and the airway becomes clear,” Dr Suresh Rao, co-director, Institute of Heart and Lung Transplantation and Mechanical Circulatory services, MGM Healthcare, said.“If your face is too close to the steam, it can cause burns and scarring also. Steam inhalation doesn’t make a difference in Covid-19 and whether it will change the occurrence of coronavirus isn’t proved. If you are carrying the virus, it can do more harm to the lungs when you take a deep breath. Putting steam inhalation (facilities) in public places is akin to creating a centre for spreading Covid-19,” he added.Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Coimbatore South MLA Vanathi Srinivasan, too, inaugurated a steam inhalation station and a mobile steam inhalation vehicle in the district on Sunday.“Frontline workers of the Coimbatore Corporation were the first beneficiaries today,” she tweeted along with a video of the staff inhaling steam.The government railway police said that they have stopped the steam inhalation sessions. “We were told by the state government to stop it. I don’t know any specific reasons why but we have stopped it yesterday (Sunday) itself,” said an inspector of the government railway police who didn’t wish to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dont-inhale-steam-without-medical-advice-tn-health-minister-101621278550887.html
18-05-2021||India||Chorus grows against physical swearing-in of Kerala cabinet||Communist Party of India (CPI) leader Binoy Viswom on Monday joined the chorus of voices urging the Pinarayi Vijayan government to hold its upcoming swearing-in ceremony virtually amid a relentless surge in Covid-19 cases across the state.The state government, however, decided to go ahead with the ceremony physically on May 20.In a Facebook post, Viswom, a Rajya Sabha MP wrote: “We have to set an example. We have to make it simple in view of the prevailing situation. This will only add to the goodwill of the new government.” While the state is under a strict lockdown till May 23, hectic arrangements are underway for the oath-taking ceremony this week. A makeshift gallery will be set up at Central Stadium. As per the latest plan, at least 500 invitees are expected to attend the function. However, workers at the stadium claimed that they have been asked to make arrangements for 750 guests.“We have strictly limited the number of invitees to 500. Five hundred is not a huge number in a stadium which has a capacity of 40,000. And all participants will have to carry Covid-free certificates obtained in the preceding 48 hours,” Vijayan said later on Monday. The chief minister added that the “historic victory” called for a celebration but that it would be a limited one due to the prevailing Covid situation.On Saturday, the Indian Medical Association (IMA) urged the government to shift the ceremony to a virtual platform. “The government’s oath-taking ceremony should be done virtually to give a message to the people,” IMA said, adding that the lackadaisical approach during the assembly elections resulted in a big surge in virus cases. ‘Shadow Cabinet’, a voluntary organisation fighting for propriety in public life, also urged the government to limit its invitees to 14 ministers and conduct a simple ceremony. “The state’s public debt and guarantees have overgrown its capacity. It will be ideal for the government to limit ministers and limit extravaganza,” John Joseph, an office-bearer of Shadow Cabinet, said. The chief minister, however, allayed apprehensions, saying: “You don’t have to worry on that count. There won’t be any rush.” The Congress and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) are yet to comment on the developments. Meanwhile, the Left Democratic Front (LDF) finalised its power-sharing pact for the Cabinet and announced that the CPI(M) will have 12 ministerial berths, CPI four and Kerala Congress ( Mani) and Janata Dal (Secular) one berth each. Four other smaller parties with single MLAs will get berths on rotational basis: the first two will become ministers for 30 months and the remaining two will be elevated in the next 30 months. “As the LDF got an overwhelming majority from all sections, we decided to give representation to all sections. The talks were fruitful,” LDF convener A Vijayaraghavan said.From the CPI(M), besides health minister K K Shailaja who is likely to retain her portfolio, all other ministers will be new-comers. “The party really wants to give a fresh look to the new ministry which came to power after breaking the four-decade-old norm of alternating government after five years. We will rise up to their expectations,” a senior party leader said on condition of anonymity.During the assembly elections to the 140-member House, the LDF secured 99 seats and the United Democratic Front 41 seats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chorus-grows-against-physical-swearing-in-of-kerala-cabinet-101621278490918.html
18-05-2021||India||Gujarat braces as Cyclone Tauktae makes night approach||Tauktae made landfall around 8.30 pm on Monday as an ‘extremely severe cyclonic storm’, said India Meteorological Department (IMD) officials. Thereafter it moved north north-westwards and crossed the Gujarat coast between Porbandar and Mahuva (in Bhavnagar district), east of Diu, with a maximum wind speed of up to 185 km/hr.The speed at the centre, or ‘eye’ of the storm, was up to 190 km/hr. “We could say that its intensity is bordering on ‘extremely severe cyclonic storm’, and it matches the forecasts we had made,” said Sunitha Devi who studies cyclones at IMD. She said that the Met department had predicted that Tauktae will be a ‘very severe cyclone’ ever since a low-pressure area had formed over the Arabian Sea. “This morning it intensified into an extremely severe cyclonic storm, but it weakened marginally during landfall,” she added.Gale winds with speeds up to 90 km/hr blew along the south Gujarat, Daman and Diu coasts when the cyclone hit land. Diu reported wind speed of 110 km/hr. But speeds are likely to go up to 185 km/hr off the Gujarat coast and places like Amreli, Bhavnagar, Junagadh and Gir Somnath districts. In Bharuch, Anand, south Ahmedabad, and Botad, wind speed will be up to 165 km/hr, IMD said in its bulletin.Tidal waves of up to 4 metres height will hit Anand, Amreli, Gir Somnath, Diu and Bhavnagar, while waves as high as 3 metres will inundate areas in Bharuch and southern parts of Ahmedabad.Weather watchers noted that this kind of a powerful cyclone hasn’t hit the Gujarat coast in a long time. “Going by IMD’s cyclone e-Atlas, for the first time after 1976, and only the second time since 1900, a cyclone that formed in May is going to hit the Gujarat coast with wind speeds greater than 35 knots (65 km/hr),” said Vineet Kumar, a cyclone researcher at Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology.He also tweeted that Tauktae, with a wind speed of 120 knots (222 km/hr), is the strongest pre-monsoon Arabian Sea cyclone after 2010 and the third most intense pre-monsoon Arabian Sea cyclone in the satellite era (1982 onwards) going by the Joint Typhoon Warning Center located at Pearl Harbor in Hawaii.O P Sreejith, scientist and head of Climate Monitoring and Prediction Group of IMD Pune, noted that the 1998 Gujarat cyclone that had hit Kandla was of a similar intensity. “The main reason for Tauktae’s sudden intensification is high surface temperatures in the Arabian Sea,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gujarat-braces-as-cyclone-makes-night-approach-101621277953466.html
18-05-2021||India||12 dead as storm leaves a trail of destruction||Bengaluru/Panaji/Thiruvananthapuram A day after cyclone Tauktae crossed the coastal areas of Karnataka and Goa, many places in the two states witnessed power and internet connectivity issues on Monday even as some areas remained inaccessible due to trees blocking highways.Officials in the disaster management department of the two state governments said that the assessment of the damage caused by the gusty winds of 120-140kmph could be done in a few days after the relief and rescue work is completed.Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant tweeted that Prime Minister Narendra Modi called and assured him of the central government’s assistance to the state in its recovery efforts. “Hon’ble Prime Minster @narendramodi ji personally called to enquire about the impact of cyclone Tauktae on the state of Goa. He has assured all possible assistance from the Central Government,” Sawant tweeted. In Karnataka, heavy rains and and gusty winds continued to lash the coastal districts of Udupi, Dakshina Kannada and Uttara Kannada. Loss of life and property was reported from three districts in the Malnad region -- Kodagu, Chikmagalur and Shivamogga -- which received relentless rain in the past two days.Officials said at least six people died due to the cyclone and its impact and 333 homes were damaged. The number of talukas or administrative units impacted has risen to 121 of the total 178 in the state.Around 57km of roads have been damaged and 547 persons have been evacuated so far, according to data from the state disaster management authorities. Around 104 boats have also been damaged along with 57 fishing nets, authorities said, adding road connectivity in several areas has been badly impacted. The officials also said that efforts were being made to restore power connections in areas where power lines were down. On Monday, all nine crew members of Tug Coromandel, a boat that was stranded at sea for over 24 hours, were rescued on Monday by naval forces flying an advanced light helicopter, according to Karnataka disaster management authorities. Five of the stranded crew members were rescued by boat, the officials said.The Goa chief minister held a meeting with top officials in the state to coordinate efforts to ensure the restoration of power and water supply as well as clearing roads blocked by debris or fallen trees. “[I have] issued directions to all the state government departments to work on war footing to restore essential services and also assess the damage in detail,” Sawant said. Sawant also spoke to Union home minister Amit Shah who he said “inquired about the widespread damage caused by the cyclone in the state and assured full support of all central agencies to the state for returning to normalcy.”The cyclone claimed two lives in Goa and injured three others while causing damage to scores of houses, power and mobile connectivity infrastructure, which the chief minister said, would take at least two days to restore. “People in Goa have been facing mobile network issues due to the disruption caused by Tauktae cyclone. Intra-Circle Roaming (ICR) facility has now been activated across Goa. You can switch over to any network which is available in your area through the manual settings of your device,” Sawant said. Kerala, which was the first Indian state to see the impact of the cyclone, high tides and winds continued to batter several coastal areas, two days after Tauktae moved upwards. According to officials, four persons died in two days and more than 5,000 people are still lining in relief camps after their dwellings were damaged.Some of the areas in north Kerala like Vadakara received more than 200mm rainfall in 24 hours but later it subsided a bit. The India Meteorological Department has sounded a yellow alert in all districts other than Thiruvananthapuram, Palakkad and Wayanad on Monday. Reeling under the impact of Covid-19, fishermen were asked not to venture into the sea for two more days.In Thiruvananthapuram 23 houses were completely destroyed and 50 suffered partial damage. In Kochi’s Chellanam, where gushing seawater came at least 100 metres inside, more than 100 houses were damaged. “Due to preparations, the human toll was limited this time but it left a trail of destruction throughout the state. Officials are surveying the affected areas to calculate damage,” said a senior revenue official. Besides houses, roads, power lines and other infrastructure were also damaged during the cyclonic storm.The cyclone comes as a double whammy to the western coastal states which continue to reel under the grip of the pandemic that has now started showing signs of a surge in rural areas, including those impacted by the cyclone. The cyclone has thrown life out of gear in these districts, which has impacted Covid-appropriate behaviour, according to multiple persons aware of the developments.Thousands of persons from coastal districts, who were shifted to safer locations in the wake of the cyclone, were sent back to their homes as cyclonic winds receded. However, heavy rains in some parts of Karnataka and Goa caused flooding, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/12-dead-as-storm-leaves-a-trail-of-destruction-101621277951445.html
18-05-2021||India||CoWIN portal in Hindi, 14 regional languages soon||The CoWIN platform, which is the backbone of the Covid-19 vaccine delivery system in the country, will be made available in Hindi and 14 regional languages by next week, Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said on Monday.The official made the announcement at a high-level meeting chaired by Union health minister Harsh Vardhan with a group of ministers on the Covid situation.“This was in the pipeline for some time keeping in mind the convenience of people who are not comfortable with the English language. The portal will be tweaked accordingly,” a government official familiar with the developments said, requesting anonymity.Vardhan, meanwhile, told the meeting that the Centre has decided to add 17 more laboratories to the Indian Sars-Cov-2 Genomics Consortium (INSACOG) to scale up genome sequencing of samples of Covid-19 patients, taking the network of advanced laboratories to 27 across the country.Also Read| Covishield second dose appointment booked already won't be cancelled: Govt“Seventeen new labs are going to be added to the INSACOG network to increase the number of samples screened and allow for more spatial analysis. The network is presently served by 10 labs located at different corners of the country,” he said.According to the INSACOG data shared by the government till May 5, 18,453 samples were genome sequenced of which 3,532 were found to be variants of concern. The United Kingdom-identified variant, B.1.1.7 lineage, was found predominant in samples collected in Punjab and Chandigarh between February and March this year.India’s Covid-19 testing capacity has also been scaled up to 2.5 million per day amid a surge in cases.Dr Balaram Bhargava, secretary, department of health research, and director of general Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), spoke on the innovative changes in testing policy that would widen its scope of application and help in mass screening for Covid-19, particularly in peri-urban and rural settings where health infrastructure is relatively weak.“The deployment of mobile reverse transcription- polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) testing vans and amplification of rapid antigen tests was the way forward. While the present capacity is around 25 lakhs (RT-PCR -13 lakh and RAT- 12 lakh), this is projected to exponentially increase to 45 lakhs (RT PCR-18 lakh and RAT- 27 lakh) under the new testing regimen,” he said at the meeting.To check the demand and supply of essential medicines, a dedicated cell has been created by the department of pharmaceuticals.Also Read| Bharat Biotech, Serum Institute submit Covid vaccine production plans to Centre“A dedicated cell has been created to coordinate production and allocation of drugs in demand to treat Covid-19. Manufacturers have been advised to increase the production of drugs. The three-pronged strategy undertaken includes identification of new suppliers and addressing operative issues faced by suppliers exploring all the possible ways to meet the demand; national distribution of drugs to states to avoid hoarding in drug-producing states, constant monitoring of the supply chain and quick resolution of issues between states and suppliers; and enforcement against hoarding and black-marketing was also initiated through the drugs controller general of India and state drugs controllers,” S Aparna, secretary, department of pharmaceutical, said.The focus was particularly on the procurement and allocation of the antiviral drug, remdesivir, immunosuppressant, tocilizumab, and antifungal amphotericin-B.“Remdesivir production has more than tripled in the country with government intervention from around 39 lakh to 118 lakh vials per month. The demand for Amphotericin-B which is used for treatment of Mucormycosis has also increased. Five suppliers have been identified and efforts are being made for optimal allocation of the drug. States were given 1 lakh vials from 1st to 14th May, 2021, while avenues for import are being actively explored,” a statement by the health ministry read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cowinportal-in-hindi-14-regional-languages-soon-101621277652074.html
18-05-2021||India||Medical facilities in UP’s small towns, villages are ‘Ram bharose’: Allahabad HC||PRAYAGRAJ: The Allahabad high court on Monday reprimanded the Uttar Pradesh government over the “casual approach of doctors and paramedical staff” in Meerut where a patient went missing and later his body was disposed of as unidentified, and said that the smaller cities and villages in the state can only be “Ram bharose (at God’s mercy)”.Taking serious note of the incident where a patient went missing from the Meerut district hospital and then disposed of his body as unidentified, the court said, “If this is the state of affairs of treatment at medical college in the city like Meerut then the entire medical system of the state pertaining to the smaller cities and villages can only be taken to be like a famous Hindi saying ‘Ram bharose’.” The court said it is a case of ‘high degree carelessness’.“A patient is admitted to the hospital in an absolute care of doctors and paramedical staff and if the doctors and paramedical staff adopt such casual approach and show carelessness in the performance of their duty, then it is a case of serious misconduct because it is something like playing with the lives of innocent people,” the court observed.The bench comprising justice Siddhartha Varma and justice Ajit Kumar passed the order in a suo motu PIL on ‘conditions of quarantine centres and for providing better treatment to corona positives’ in the state of Uttar Pradesh.The court directed additional chief secretary (Medical and Health), Uttar Pradesh to file an affidavit fixing responsibility in the matter. The bench took the example of district Bijnor as a test case to assess the overall health care system in smaller cities and rural areas of the state and after going through Covid testing data related to Bijnor, the bench expressed its dissatisfaction to the number of tests conducted in Bijnor between March 31, 2021 and May 12 , 2021.The bench said that in the population of 32 lakhs if the testing is done of only 1200 persons per day then the situation is not happy. The manner in which the pandemic has hit the rural areas of the State, the district administration is required to have a robust way of conducting tests.The bench directed the state government to immediately improve and increase the testing methods of the rural population and the population of small cities and towns and also provide sufficient health care infrastructure in such cities of state.The bench then said that we are under ‘serious threat of its third wave, hence, we need to vaccinate each and every individual in the country and we need to have an excellent medical infrastructure.The court has fixed May 22 as the next date of hearing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/facilities-in-up-s-small-towns-villages-are-ram-bharose-hc-101621276510802.html
18-05-2021||India||Narada probe: TMC targets Dhankhar over prosecution sanction||Kolkata The role of governor Jagdeep Dhankhar came into question as West Bengal’s ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) faced a new crisis on Monday following the arrest of two of its heavyweight ministers and a prominent legislator, with the former coming in for criticism from political circles and social media users. On May 9, Raj Bhawan said in a statement that the governor had accorded prosecution sanction to the CBI (Central Bureau of Investigation) against three TMC MLAs, Madan Mitra, Subrata Mukherjee and Firhad Hakim, and former party leader Sovan Chatterjee. This authorised the agency to file the charge sheet against the four. On May 10, Mukherjee and Hakim were sworn in as ministers at Raj Bhawan. Mitra took oath at the assembly on May 6. The statement issued by Raj Bhawan said: “Governor of West Bengal accorded sanction for prosecution in respect of Firhad Hakim, Subrata Mukherjee, Madan Mitra and Sovan Chatterjee, for the reason that all of them at the relevant time of commission of crime were holding the position of ministers in the government of West Bengal.” Dhankhar took oath as Bengal governor on July 30, 2019.In 2014, Delhi-based journalist Mathew Samuel conducted a sting operation on about a dozen TMC leaders and an Indian Police Service (IPS) officer. The videos were made public before the Bengal assembly polls in 2016 and the CBI was asked to conduct a probe by the Calcutta high court and the Supreme Court in March 2017. A controversy has broken out over the governor using the interregnum between two governments to accord his consent; in the normal course of events this consent would have been needed from the speaker of the assembly. “The CBI has to seek sanction from the assembly speaker to file a charge sheet against a member of the House. It was not done. According to the Constitution, the speaker is always in office, even during the period when an old government is being replaced by a new one. The speaker’s office falls vacant only when a new speaker is elected. A bell is rung in the House to announce that the speaker is vacating his chair. This is clearly stated in Article 179 of the Constitution,” Bengal assembly speaker Biman Banerjee, who is also a senior lawyer, told HT on Monday evening. “I do not know under which provision and with what intention the governor gave such a clearance to the CBI. I was completely bypassed. Moreover, this case is still pending at the Calcutta high court. The court asked the CBI during the last hearing if it sought sanction from the speaker for prosecuting sitting MLAs. The advocate general informed the court in writing that the CBI did not seek any sanction for filing the charge sheet. The agency bypassed the high court as well. The court did not ask the CBI to seek sanction from the governor,” said Banerjee. CPI(M) Rajya Sabha member and noted lawyer Bikash Ranjan Bhattacharya said the TMC should not question Dhankhar for giving sanction for prosecuting the TMC ministers and MLAs as the probe was ordered by the court. “Why is the TMC blaming the governor? This is a legal issue and the probe was ordered by the Calcutta high court and the Supreme Court. If the state government has a contention it is free to move the court. However, the governor is not playing his role as drafted in the Constitution. His recent activities and statements show that he is acting in a partisan manner,” said Bhattacharya who earlier served as advocate general of Tripura for five years. While angry TMC workers staged an agitation and burnt effigies of the governor and Prime Minister Narendra Modi across Bengal, Dhankhar tweeted that the law and order situation in Bengal was deteriorating. TMC workers also staged a demonstration outside Raj Bhawan. “Message @MamataOfficial “Total lawlessness & anarchy. Police and administration in silence mode. Hope you realize repercussions of such lawlessness and failure of constitutional mechanism. Time to reflect and contain this explosive situation that is worsening minute by minute,” he wrote. “Invited attention @MamataOfficial “On channels and in public domain I notice arson and pelting of stones at CBI office. Pathetic that Kolkata Police @KolkataPolice and West Bengal Police @WBPolice are just onlookers. Appeal to you to act and restore law and order,” said another tweet. TMC spokesperson Kunal Ghosh said, “He came to Bengal as an agent of the BJP. It has been proved once again.” Bengal BJP general secretary Sayantan Basu, however, said that the governor acted in accordance with law. “He is aware of the Constitutional provisions,” he said. Dhankar’s office said he was not available for comments as he was busy in meetings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/narada-probe-tmc-targets-dhankhar-over-prosecution-sanction-101621276330857.html
18-05-2021||India||Govt rolls out DRDO-formed Covid drug, experts call for more research||Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Monday launched an anti-Covid drug developed by the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) in collaboration with Hyderabad-based Dr Reddy’s laboratories (DRL), calling it “a new ray of hope in these challenging times”, although experts called for more scientific data.The oral drug 2-DG (2-deoxy-D-glucose) was approved by the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) on May 8 as an adjunct therapy – one that supplements regular treatment – for Covid-19. DRDO and its partner DRL carried out a phase II trial with 40 volunteers last year and a phase III trial with 220 in 2021, according to the filings on the Clinical Trials Registry - India.Assessments from neither have been shared yet and it was not clear from which trials the DRDO officials were determining their efficacy assessments.“The peer-reviewed research is expected to be published soon,” a senior DRDO official said, asking not to be named.The registries also did not report in what proportion volunteers were randomised to be given 2-DG or the standard Covid care.Defence minister Singh, who handed over the first batch of the drug to Union health minister Harsh Vardhan said the drug would reduce oxygen dependency and help patients recover sooner, citing the unreleased trial findings.One box each of the drug sachets was also handed over to All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) director Dr Randeep Guleria and Lieutenant General Sunil Kant of Armed Forces Medical Services (AFMS). The drug will be made available for emergency use at different hospitals across the country, the defence ministry said in a statement.“The development and production of the drug is a shining example of public-private sector partnership to help the nation in these challenging times,” the defence minister said. He added that the drug was a perfect example of India’s scientific prowess and a milestone in the efforts towards self-reliance.“In efficacy trends, the patients treated with 2-DG showed faster symptomatic cure than Standard of Care (SoC) on various endpoints. A significantly favourable trend (2.5 days difference) was seen in terms of the median time to achieving normalisation of specific vital signs parameters when compared to SoC,” the defence ministry said in statement on May 8.“It was an adaptive phase II/III trial that was conducted to determine safety and efficacy of this drug in Covid-19 patients. The drug was originally meant for treating cancer patients and then tried in Covid-19 patients with a modified dosage. The trial results were promising as it showed reduction in viral load as it impedes viral replication; length of hospitalisation also reduced; and it also reduces steroid and oxygen requirement,” said Dr Akshay Budhraja, from the respiratory medicine department at Delhi’s Aakash Healthcare Super Speciality Hospital, which was one of the trial locations. Dr Budhraja was one of the trial investigators.Experts said such announcements must be accompanied with evidence. “I am not commenting on the efficacy of the drug, all I ask for is the evidence. You cannot create false hopes as you would stop patients from taking real medicines. It is not a good scientific practice to do trials and sit on the data. Trial data should ideally be published in peer-reviewed top journals so that those people who are not a part of the clinical trial can study it, question it and cross-check the legitimacy of the trial,” said CM Gulhati, editor, Monthly Index of Medical Specialities (MIMS), pharmaceutical reference guide.“I think we are really getting overactive in terms of approvals and that is not good for medical science as people who conduct clinical trials have vested interest in showing positive trial results,” he said. “And everything is online these days; how much time will it take to put stuff online for people to scrutinise a claim?” he added.The drug 2-deoxy-D-glucose has been used for decades as a possible cancer therapy as research has shown that it hampers cell growth by blocking cellular glucose supply, leading to its use as a tumor therapeutics. The hypothesis in its use in treating Covid-19 is that it could impair replication of Sars-Cov-2 by a similar mechanism of action.The drug has still not been approved by regulators for regular cancer therapy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-rolls-out-drdo-formed-covid-drug-experts-call-for-more-research-101621273630709.html
18-05-2021||India||PM Modi lauds doctors for Covid fight, suggests regular oxygen audits||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday urged doctors to include an oxygen audit in their daily routines, form groups with MBBS students to provide telemedicine services in rural areas, and called for extra efforts to spread awareness about mucormycosis, or the black fungus disease, according to a government statement.In a virtual meeting attended by doctors from J&K, Jaipur and Imphal, the PM lauded the medical experts for “continuously fighting this long battle against the virus” and said that it must be “mentally challenging for the medical fraternity, but the power of faith of citizens stands with them in this fight”.Modi also said that 90% of India’s frontline Covid-19 workers have been inoculated in a vaccination strategy that has paid “rich dividends”.The doctors, during the interaction, pointed out that in the prolonged fight against Covid, every effort was being made to also take proper care of non-Covid patients, the government statement said.With some parts of India reeling facing a shortage of medical oxygen and ICU beds, the PM told doctors to include an oxygen audit in their daily routines, and discussed how the treatment of Covid-19 patients in home isolation should be done through a standard operating procedure, or SOP.With tele-consultancy gaining importance during the pandemic, Modi said that such services need to be expanded in rural areas as well. “He lauded the doctors who are forming teams and providing telemedicine service in villages. He appealed to doctors across the states to form similar teams, train final year MBBS students and MBBS interns, and work towards ensuring that all tehsils and districts of the country have telemedicine service,” said the official media release.This was the third interaction between the PM and the doctors during the pandemic.The doctors thanked the PM for prioritising the health care workers for vaccination and underlined that in the fight against Covid, and shared their experiences of increasing awareness among the public, including about sensitising patients, against the improper use of medicines, the release said.On Tuesday, Modi will be interacting with field officials from states and districts to talk about their experience in handling the pandemic. Officials said the meeting was aimed at sharing best practises, and suggesting ways and means to fight Covid-19 particularly in semi-urban and rural areas.Officials from Karnataka, Bihar, Assam, Chandigarh, Tamil Nadu, Uttarakhand, MP, Goa, Himachal Pradesh, and Delhi will take participate in the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-lauds-doctors-for-covid-fight-suggests-regular-oxygen-audits-101621273450706.html
18-05-2021||India||Clotting, bleeding cases after jab minuscule: Govt||India has reported clotting and bleeding events in just 0.61 for every million doses of the Covishield vaccine administered to people, the Union health ministry said on Monday, citing a report submitted by the national adverse events following immunisation (AEFI) committee that highlights the safety of the most widely used vaccine in the country. The assessment was based on the analysis of 498 serious AEFIs reported as on April 3 -- by then, 75 million doses had been administered in all. Concerns over the risk of blood clots relate to one of the two vaccines used in India -- Covishield, which is the Indian version of the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine -- after several western countries began noticing cases . The data from India now shows it was seen only in 26 of the 498 AEFIs. “The AEFI committee has completed an in-depth case review of 498 serious and severe events, of which 26 cases have been reported to be potential thromboembolic (formation of a clot in a blood vessel that might also break loose and carried by the blood stream to plug another vessel) events – following the administration of Covishield vaccine – with a reporting rate of 0.61 cases/ million doses,” read the health ministry’s formal statement. Officials recorded close to 700 AEFIs in all from among the 75 million doses till April 3, but had detailed data for only 498. “Therefore, the denominator also had to be adjusted, and the number of Covishield and Covaxin doses was proportionally reduced,” said Dr NK Arora, who chairs the National AEFI committee.  Going by this calculation, the AEFI assessment was likely to have been based on a little over 42 million doses administered till that time. “AEFI data in India showed that there is a very minuscule but definitive risk of thromboembolic events. The reporting rate of these events in India is around 0.61/million doses, which is much lower than the 4 cases per million reported by UK’s regulator Medical and Health Regulatory Authority. Germany has reported 10 events per million doses,” the statement added.Serum Institute of India (SII) locally manufacturers Oxford-AstraZeneca’s Covid-19 vaccine under the brand name Covishield, which is one of the two vaccines currently being used under national Covid-19 immunisation programme. The other is Covaxin, made by Bharat Biotech.Alerts were raised in some countries on post-vaccination ‘embolic and thrombotic events’ on March 11, particularly with the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine. In the aftermath, India decided to conduct an in-depth analysis of the adverse events (AE). “Bleeding and clotting cases following Covid-19 vaccination in India are minuscule and in line with the expected number of diagnoses of these conditions in the country, a report submitted by the National AEFI (Adverse Event Following Immunization) Committee to the Ministry of Health & Family Welfare said,” read the statement.The clotting reports initially were seen to have triggered some vaccine hesitancy, although India now has a demand that is in excess of supply. There were no such potential clotting or bleeding event reported among those who were administered Covaxin doses. The national AEFI committee noted that as on April 3, 2021, at least 75 million (75,435,381) vaccine doses had been administered (Covishield – 68,650,819; Covaxin – 6,784,562). Of these, 65,944,106 were first doses and 9,491,275 were given as the second dose.Since the Covid-19 vaccination drive was initiated on January 16, 2021, at least 23,000 adverse events were reported through the Co-WIN platform from 684 of the 753 districts of the country. Of these, only 700 cases— at the rate of 9.3 cases per million doses administered— were reported to be serious and severe in nature, according to the report.The report also says that the thromboembolic events keep occurring in general population as background and scientific literature suggests that this risk is almost 70% less in persons of South and South East Asian descent in comparison to those from European descent. Data on the incidence in the clots in the general population was not provided by the ministry. The ministry of health is separately issuing advisories to healthcare workers and vaccine beneficiaries to encourage people to be aware of suspected thromboembolic symptoms occurring within 20 days after receiving any Covid-19 vaccine (particularly Covishield), and report to the health facility where vaccine was administered.Among symptoms that need to be watched out for are breathlessness; chest pain, pain in limbs or pain on pressing limbs or swelling in limbs (arm or calf); multiple, pinhead size red spots or bruising of skin in an area beyond the injection site; persistent abdominal pain with or without vomiting; seizures in the absence of previous history of seizures with or without vomiting; severe and persistent headache with or without vomiting (in the absence of previous history of migraine or chronic headache); weakness or paralysis of limbs or any particular side or part of the body (including face); persistent vomiting without any obvious reason; blurred vision or pain in eyes or having double vision; and change in mental status or having confusion or depressed level of consciousness.The list also includes any other symptom or health condition which is of concern to the recipient or the family.At least 164.6 million doses of Covishield was administered as on May 17, 2021, the Co-WIN dashboard showed on Monday.“Health ministry is continuously monitoring the safety of all Covid-19 vaccines and is promoting reporting of suspected adverse events. Covishield, the Covid-19 vaccine, continues to have a definite positive benefit risk profile with tremendous potential to prevent infections and reduce deaths due to Covid-19 across the world and in India,” the ministry statement read.“Vaccination is the most potent weapon to fight the pandemic. The vaccines are safe, and should be taken by everyone unless contraindicated,” said Dr GC Khilnani, former head, pulmonology department, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/061-per-million-covishield-doses-reported-clotting-bleeding-health-ministry-101621247050215.html
18-05-2021||NA||Cyclone Tauktae Highlights: Gujarat's coastal areas witness power outages||Over 200,000 people were on Monday evacuated from their homes in Gujarat to safe places as the extremely severe cyclonic storm Tauktae began landfall in the state. The landfall process took place between 9pm to 12am, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD).Officials told news agency PTI that no casualties have been reported in Gujarat so far. IMD, meanwhile, said Cyclone Tauktae has now weakened into very severe cyclonic storm.As a precautionary measure, authorities closed ports and a main airport ahead of the cyclone's landfall on Monday which has killed at least 12 people so far.Among the affected states, coastal states of Kerala, Karnataka, Goa and Maharashtra have witnessed destruction and deaths due to severe storm which has uprooted trees and disrupted power supply.Read all the latest updates on Cyclone Tauktae here"This will be the most severe cyclone to hit Gujarat in at least 20 years. This can be compared with the 1998 cyclone that hit Kandla and inflicted heavy damage," state revenue secretary Pankaj Kumar told news agency Reuters.The 1998 cyclone that ravaged Gujarat killed at least 4,000 people and caused hundreds of millions of dollars in damage, media reported at the time.Cyclone Tauktae has increased pressure on local administrations already battered by a high caseload of Covid-19 infections and overwhelmed health infrastructure.Also read | Cyclone Tauktae: Mumbai airport shut for 3 hours today, Bandra-Worli link closedGujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani said all measures were being taken to deal with the situation.Follow all the updates here:Cyclone crosses Saurashtra coastVery Severe Cyclonic Storm “Tauktae” crossed Saurashtra coast.THE VERY SEVERE CYCLONIC STORM ‘TAUKTAE’ LAY CENTRED AT 0030 HRS IST OVER SAURASHTRA, ABOUT30 KM NORTHEAST OF DIU. pic.twitter.com/k6xpIqk1r7Gujarat's coastal areas witness power outagesSeveral towns and villages experienced power outages in areas near Gujarat's coast after cyclone Tauktae began landfall on Monday night. Centre of cyclone lies overland about 20km east-northeast of DiuCyclone Tauktae updateAt 2230 IST - centre of the cyclone now lies overland about 20kms East-northeast of Diu.The landfall process will continue for next 2hrs. pic.twitter.com/Wtys5trofN60 rescued from ONGC's barge P305 till now: OfficialsA total of 60 personnel have been rescued from ONGC's barge P305 till now, officials told Hindustan Times on Monday adding 42 of these were rescued by INS Kochi and 18 by offshore support vessel Energy Star. Search and rescue operations will continue throughout the night for the remaining crew. A total of 261 personnel were deployed for offshore drilling in Bombay High in the Arabian Sea.Eight dead in Karnataka; 121 villages affected: State govtEight people have died so far in Karnataka after cyclone Tauktae hit the coastal and surrounding Maland districts of the state, officials told news agency PTI on Monday. As many as 121 villages in seven districts- Dakshina Kannada, Udupi, Uttara Kannada, Kodagu, Chikkamagaluru, Hassan and Belagavi- are affected by the cyclonic storm, Karnataka state disaster management authority (SDMA) said in its situation report.NDRF force clears tree fell in Diu due to cyclone TauktaeForecasters warned of possible extensive damage from high winds, heavy rainfall and flooding in low-lying areas.Over 55 flights cancelled at Mumbai airportMore than 55 flights, both incoming and outbound, were cancelled at the city's Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA) on Monday after the private airport operator was forced to suspend all air services at 11 am due to cyclone 'Tauktae'. These cancellations apart, some seven incoming flights were also diverted to various airports. The CSMIA for the fourth time in the day extended the closure of operations till 10 pm after first announcing that the airport will remain closed for three hours, starting 11 am.Indian Navy deploys 3 warships to rescue over 400 peopleThe Indian Navy on Monday deployed three of its frontline warships to rescue over 400 people onboard two barges off the Mumbai coast as cyclone Tauktae roared up the western coast.Navy officials said 38 people out of 137 onboard 'GAL Constructor' were rescued under extreme weather conditions and very rough seas.The ships deployed to extend assistance to the two barges are INS Kolkata, INS Kochi and INS Talwar, Navy officials said.Cyclone Tauktae landfall process to take 3 more hours to complete: IMDThe landfall process of the severe cyclonic storm Tauktae is continuing and will take three more hours to complete, the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) informed. "Landfall process is continuing, it will take another 03 hours to complete the landfall process," tweeted IMD.Cyclone Tauktae makes landfall: IMDPowerful Cyclone Tauktae made landfall in western India late Monday, as heavy rains and strong winds battered the region and officials evacuated thousands of people including Covid-19 patients from hospitals near the coast."The (Extremely Severe Cyclonic Storm) Tauktae lies close to Gujarat coast. The landfall process started and will continue during next 02 hours," the Indian Meteorological Department tweeted.Indian Army puts 180 teams and 9 engineer task forces on standbyThe Indian Army said on Monday it has put 180 teams and nine engineer task forces on standby to face any contingency as Cyclone Tauktae is likely to hit the Gujarat coast on Monday evening."Sector commanders and Divisional HQ (headquarter) are in touch with District Collectors and the Revenue Commissioner who is the nodal agency for relief activities in Gujarat," the Army said in a statement.Strong winds at 114 kmph strike MumbaiWinds blew at 114 kmph in Mumbai on Monday afternoon as the extremely severe cyclonic storm Tauktae was passing close to the Mumbai coast barrelling towards Gujarat, civic officials said.However, as per the Mumbai IMD, the highest wind speed of 108 km per hour was recorded at the Colaba observatory in the afternoon, said Shubhangi Bhute, senior director, IMD Mumbai.Two barges with 410 personnel adrift in Bombay High, but all onboard safe: AfconsThe severe cyclonic storm Tauktae pounding the West Coast de-anchored two Afcons-owned barges working at the Bombay High with 410 personnel but all the staff are safe and the barges have been steadied back, the constriction major said Monday evening.Earlier in the day, PTI quoting an ONGC official had said the barge belonged to the national energy major but later ONGC clarified that the barges were hired by them and personnel are of the contractor Afcons, which is owned by the Shapporji Pallonji Group of Cyrus Mistry.Railways monitoring vulnerable areas, key bridgesThe Railways Ministry on Monday said that it is taking all the measures to face the cyclonic storm Tauktae and vulnerable areas and important bridges are being constantly monitored by its engineering wing.According to a statement issued by the ministry, all zonal and divisional controls are monitoring the situation and constantly in touch with all the railway stations in Southern Railway, South Western Railway, Konkan Railway, Central Railway and Western Railway.Mumbai airport to remain shut till 8 pm due to cyclone alertThe city's Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport has extended the suspension of all air services to 8 pm from 6 pm announced earlier due to the cyclone 'Tauktae'.This is the third time in the day, the private airport operator has extended the closure of operations after first announcing it for three hours, starting 11 am. "The closure of the flight operations at CSMIA has been extended further till 2000 hours of May 17," the private airport operator said in the updated statement.Six die in Konkan region of MaharashtraSix persons were killed in Maharashtra's Konkan region in separate incidents related to the severe cyclonic storm 'Tauktae' while three sailors remained missing after two boats sank in the sea, a statement and officials said on Monday.Of the six, three persons died in Raigad district, a sailor in Sindhudurg district while two persons were killed in Navi Mumbai and Ulhasnagar after trees fell on them, in Thane district, officials said.Two boats anchored at the Anandwadi harbour in Sindhudurg district capsized, an official statement said, adding seven sailors were on board the two vessels.Rajnath reviews military’s preparations for cyclone relief; warships on standbyWith Tauktae intensifying from a very severe to an extremely severe cyclonic storm, defence minister Rajnath Singh on Monday reviewed the military’s preparations to provide humanitarian assistance and disaster relief to states affected by the cyclone even as warships and rescue teams are on standby for relief work, officials familiar with the development said.Aaditya Thackeray reviews situation in MumbaiMaharashtra minister Aaditya Thackeray on Monday paid a visit to the BMC's disaster management cell here to review the situation arising out of the cyclonic storm Tauktae and said the authorities are doing everything to keep the people of the city safe.Gusty winds and heavy showers lashed Mumbai and its neighbouring areas on Monday due to the impact of the "very severe cyclonic storm" Tauktae which has barreled towards the Gujarat coast.Strong winds and heavy rains uprooted trees and disrupted suburban train services in the metropolis, officials said.Mumbai cops maintain vigil amid rains, windsPolice personnel in Mumbai have been asked to stay on high alert and communication as well as flood-related life-saving equipment have been kept ready in view of rains and gusty winds expected on Monday as cyclone Tauktae moves towards the coast of Gujarat, an official said.He said adequate manpower had been made available in police stations and traffic posts on the roads of the metropolis."All police stations and posts have been asked to check communication equipment like wireless sets and public address systems to ensure they are working optimally. The same instructions have been given for vehicles and life-saving and rescue items like life jackets, first-aid kits, ropes, hammers, emergency lighting, stretchers etc," the official informed.PM speaks to Goa CM on damage caused by cyclone TauktaePrime Minister Narendra Modi spoke to Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant over phone on Monday to enquire about damage caused in the state by cyclone Tauktae, an official said.Two persons had died on Sunday in separate incidents caused due to gusty winds triggered by cyclone Tauktae, which also damaged around 100 houses and blocked some highways due to the falling of trees, the CM had earlier said.The major impact of the cyclonic winds was felt in Bardez taluka in North Goa and Mormugao in South Goa, he had said.Tauktae effect: Orange, yellow rain alerts for MP districtsThe India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Monday issued an orange or "be prepared" alert for heavy rains in 13 districts in Madhya Pradesh even as the state received intermittent showers during the day due to cyclone Tauktae, an official said.The IMD also issued a yellow alert for thunderstorms with lightning and gusty winds at speeds of 40 50 kilometres per hour in isolated places of nine divisions till Tuesday morning.The orange alert is for 13 districts, including Narsinghpur, Alirajpurand and Mandsaur, while the yellow alert has been issued for Bhopal, Indore, Jabalpur, Gwalior and Jabalpur divisions among others.Tauktae landfall on Monday night: 1.5 lakh people movedWith the tropical cyclone Tauktae set to cross the Gujarat coast and make a landfall as an "extremely severe cyclonic storm" by Monday night, the state government has shifted over 1.5 lakh people to safer places and mobilised disaster response teams.The Centre has offered all help to Gujarat to deal with the cyclone and asked the Army, Navy and the Air Force to remain on standby to assist the administration if need arises, the state government said.PM Modi dials Gujarat CM Vijay RupaniPM called up Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani and took stock of the preparations to deal with cyclonic storm Tauktae which has intensified into a very severe cyclonic storm and is expected to reach the Gujarat coast in the night.The prime minister assured the state government of all possible help to deal with the situation."Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday evening called up Chief Minister Vijay Rupani over the phone and sought details of preparation by the state government to deal with cyclone Tauktae," the Chief Minister's Office said in a release.Heavy rains likely in Rajasthan tomorrowClose to a dozen districts in Rajasthan would witness heavy to very heavy rainfall on Tuesday as an impact of Cyclone Taukatae. The respective collectors, SPs and others have been directed to be on vigil and be prepared with a contingency plan.According to the Met department, the state would be witnessing gusty winds and heavy rainfall in Pali, Udaipur, Jalore, Dungarpur and Sirohi on May 18, and in Ajmer, Jodhpur, Kota, Jaipur and Bharatpur on May 19.PM Modi speaks to Uddhav Thackeray on Cyclone TauktaePrime Minister Narendra Modi spoke to Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Monday on the Cyclone Tauktae related situation in the state, official sources said.The cyclonic storm over the Arabian Sea led to very strong winds blowing at a speed of 114 kmph in Mumbai on Monday afternoon, civic officials said.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has said that Cyclone Tauktae has now intensified into an "extremely severe cyclonic storm". It is likely to reach Gujarat coast by Monday evening and cross the state coast between 8 pm and 11 pm, the IMD said.Modi had on Saturday reviewed the preparedness to deal with the cyclone's fallout in a high-level meeting which was attended by several ministries and agencies concerned.121 villages affected in Karnataka, six deadSix people have lost their lives so far in the Cyclone Tauktae-hit coastal and surrounding Malnad districts of Karnataka, officials said on Monday.According to a situation report by Karnataka State Disaster Management Authority officials, till this morning, 121 villages and 22 taluks have been affected by the cyclone so far.A total of 547 people have been evacuated till now, it said, 290 people are currently taking shelter in the 13 relief camps that have been opened.Damages to a total of 333 houses, 644 poles, 147 transformers, 3,004.3 meters of lines, 57 km of road, 57 nets and 104 boats have been reported so far, it said adding that, agriculture crop loss has been estimated in about 30 ha till now and horticulture crop loss is about 2.87 ha.Cyclone Tauktae ‘extremely severe’; expected to hit Gujarat coast tonightNavy, Coast Guard on high alert as Tauktae passes Mumbai coastThe Indian Navy and the Indian Coast Guard (ICG) are on high alert as severe cyclonic storm Tauktae passes the Mumbai coast towards Gujarat on Monday.The navy has kept its Flood Rescue Teams at INS Shikra in Colaba, INS Trata in Worli, Material Organisation in Ghatkopar, INS Tanaji in Mankhurd, and INS Hamla in Malad ready for deployment.2 dead in Maharashtra's Konkan regionTwo persons died in Maharashtra's Konkan region in separate incidents related to the severe cyclonic storm Tauktae, the state government said on Monday.Two boats anchored at the Anandwadi harbour in Sindhudurg district drowned, an official statement said, adding that seven sailors were on board the two vessels.A sailor, identified as Rajaram Kadam, from Devgad taluka in the district died in the incident, while three others were missing.The three other sailors were safe, the statement said.Raigad receives 23.42mm rains, 839 homes damagedRaigad in coastal Maharashtra received 23.42 millimetres if rainfall till 9am on Monday in the wake of cyclone Tauktae, with the region also experiencing gusty winds since midnight that partially damaged 839 houses, a senior official said.A release from the district collector's office said 8,383 people belonging to 2,263 families staying in homes along the seafront had been evacuated as a precautionary measure.Train services affected in MumbaiLocal trains services of the Central Railway were disrupted between suburban Ghatkopar and Vikhroli for about half-an-hour as a tree fell on an overhead wire while a train was heading towards neighbouring Thane, a railway spokesperson said.Services on the harbour line, that provides rail connectivity to Navi Mumbai, were also affected after a vinyl banner fell on an overhead wire between Chunabhatti and Guru Tej Bahadur stations around 11.45 am.The banner was removed after about half-an-hour and train services were resumed, he said.Due to the strong wind, some plastic sheets covering the roof of the common passenger area between the suburban and main lines at the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT) were blown away in the morning, he said.Tauktae intensified rapidly this morning, took IMD and scientists by surpriseTauktae intensified from a very severe to an extremely severe cyclonic storm rapidly on Monday morning, taking weather experts and scientists by surprise.“Tauktae intensified very rapidly this morning. We did not state that it would intensify to an extremely severe cyclone in our forecast. But it did because of extremely favourable oceanic and atmospheric conditions,” said M Mohapatra, director general, India Meteorological Department (IMD).Mumbai airport to remain shut till 4 pm due to cyclone alertAll operations at the city's Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA) will now remain shut till 4 pm in the wake of cyclone Tauktae, the private airport operator said on Monday. CSMAI had earlier decided to suspend flight services from 11 am to 2 pm. “In the wake of the cyclone, the closure of flight operations at Mumbai Airport has been extended till 1600 hours on May 17,” CSMIA said in its latest statement.Further, three city-bound flights operated by budget carriers IndiGo and SpiceJet were diverted due to the closure of all services at the city airport.Heavy showers, strong winds in Mumbai; IMD upgrades rain forecastGusty winds and heavy showers lashed Mumbai and its neighbouring areas on Monday as the "very severe cyclonic storm" Tauktae headed towards Gujarat, uprooting trees and disrupting local train services in the metropolis, officials said.The IMD has warned of extremely heavy rain and wind speed upto 120 kmph over the next few hours, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said in the afternoon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-tauktae-live-updates-gujarat-braces-for-severe-storm-in-20-years-strong-wind-and-heavy-showers-in-mumbai-101621241929391.html
18-05-2021||NA||Highlights: Gujarat govt extends partial Covid lockdown in state for 3 more days||India on Monday recorded 281,386 fresh Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours, according to Union health ministry dashboard. As many as 4,106 new deaths were also registered. The country has so far reported a total of 24.96 million cases and 274,390 deaths. India is currently reeling under a second Covid-19 wave.The global Covid-19 disease caseload has climbed to 163,697,584 of which 3,392,646 people have died and 142,146,432 have recovered, according to worldometers.info. The United States continues to remain the worst-hit country from the pandemic with 33,713,078 cases and 600,139 deaths respectively.The first batch of the 2-deoxy-D-glucose (2-DG) drug developed by the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) for treatment of Covid-19 was launched by Union defence Minister Rajnath Singh and health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan earlier in the day.Meanwhile, UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson said the next step out of lockdown must be taken “with a heavy dose of caution” as more coronavirus restrictions are lifted on Monday.Follow all the updates here:Gujarat govt extends partial Covid lockdown in state for 3 more daysGujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani announced on Monday that the partial lockdown in state, which was supposed to end tomorrow, has been extended for three more days, according to news agency ANI.Telangana registers nearly 4,000 new Covid-19 cases, 30 deathsTelangana reports 3961 new #COVID19 cases, 5559 recoveries and 30 deaths in the last 24 hours.Total cases 5,32,784Total recoveries 4,80,458Death toll 2985Active cases 49,341 pic.twitter.com/Nx4HoJesIXRajasthan reports 11,597 fresh Covid-19 infectionsRajasthan reports 11,597 new #COVID19 cases, 29,459 recoveries and 157 deaths in the last 24 hours.Total cases 8,71,266Total recoveries 6,87,969Death toll 6934Active cases 1,76,363 pic.twitter.com/IVPr43va3xGovt revises clinical guidance for Covid-19 management, drops plasma therapyAIIMS/ICMR-COVID-19 National Task Force/Joint Monitoring Group, Ministry of Health & Family Welfare, Government of India revised Clinical Guidance for Management of Adult #COVID19 Patients and dropped Convalescent plasma (Off label). pic.twitter.com/Dg1PG5bxGbOver 2,300 people in UK infected with Indian variant of Covid-19UK Health secretary Matt Hancock said that authorities 2,323 cases of Indian strain of Covid-19. Hancock said 86 different local authority areas had now found at least five people infected with the new variant, reported Bloomberg.Maharashtra reports 26,616 fresh Covid-19 infectionsMaharashtra reports 26,616 new Covid-19 cases and 516 deaths in the last 24 hours, according to the state health bulletin. Read moreWest Bengal logs over 19,000 new Covid-19 infections in last 24 hoursWest Bengal reports 19,003 new #COVID19 cases, 19,101 recoveries and 147 deaths today.Total cases 11,52,433Total recoveries 10,07,442Death toll 13,431Active cases 1,31,560 pic.twitter.com/PsDRvEzdRSKarnataka logs 38,603 new Covid-19 cases, 476 deathsKarnataka reports 38,603 new #COVID19 cases, 34,635 recoveries and 476 deaths in the last 24 hours.Total cases 22,42,065Total recoveries 16,16,092Death toll 22,313Active cases 6,03,639 pic.twitter.com/1LvcnuxdFATamil Nadu reports 33,075 fresh Covid-19 cases, 335 deathsTamil Nadu reports 33,075 new #COVID19 cases, 20,486 recoveries and 335 deaths in the last 24 hours.Total cases 16,31,291Total recoveries 13,81,690Death toll 18,005Active cases 2,31,596 pic.twitter.com/S618gg3cbgKerala reports 21,402 new Covid-19 infections, 87 deathsKerala reported 21,402 new Covid-19 cases on Monday. The death toll rose to 6515, with reporting of 87 deaths in the last 24 hours, ANI quoted chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan as saying.36 girls of two orphanages in Tripura test Covid-19 positiveIn two orphanages, 36 girls, aged between 5 and 16 years, tested positive for Covid-19 in Tripura, PTI quoted state education minister Ratan Lal Nath as saying.Nagaland launches free Covid-19 vaccination drive for people in age group of 18-44 yearsNagaland health minister S Pangnyu Phom launched free Covid-19 vaccination programme for people in the age bracket of 18-44 years, reported PTI.Russia reports 9,328 new Covid-19 cases in last 24 hoursRussia registered 9,328 new coronavirus infections over the past 24 hours, taking the nationwide tally to 4,949,573, ANI reported the official monitoring and response center as saying on Monday.400 cases of Indian Covid-19 variant detected in London: Sadiq KhanSadiq Khan, who was re-elected the mayor of London this month said the authorities are working to trace the contacts of 400 people who were detected with the Indian variant of Covid-19. 100 of those cases relate to travel, Khan said, reported Bloomberg.Delhi reports 4,524 new Covid-19 cases, 340 deathsDelhi logged 4,524 new Covid-19 cases and 340 deaths in the last 24 hours, according to the health bulletin. Read moreSouth Africa begins vaccinating elderly citizens against Covid-19South Africa has started its mass vaccination drive against Covid-19 with the goal of inoculating nearly 5 million elderly citizens aged over 60 years by early June, reported AP.Remdesivir production increased from 38 lakh vials to nearly 119 lakh per month: GovtProduction capacity of #Remdesivir has been increased from 38 lakh vials to nearly 119 lakh vials per month Substantial increase in number of manufacturing sites of Remdesivirhttps://t.co/YL2S9dKygg#Unite2FightCorona pic.twitter.com/9YIKMNkOhtPhilippines logs 5,979 new Covid-19 casesPhilippines reported 5,979 new Covid-19 cases on Monday, taking the tally to 1,149,925, according to the Philippine Department of Health (DOH), reported Reuters.Delhi reports over 91,000 recoveries from Covid-19 last weekAbout 91,500 patients recovered from Covid-19 in Delhi in the last one week in comparison to 60,000 cases reported during the same period, as per the government data, reported PTI.Actor Rajinikanth hands over ₹50 lakh for Covid relief fund to Tamil Nadu CM MK StalinActor Rajinikanth handed over ₹50 lakh for Covid relief fund to Tamil Nadu Chief Minister MK Stalin at the secretariat."I appealed to the people to strictly follow Covid restriction favoured by the government to control the pandemic," said Rajinikanth.India's virus cases decline, but WHO expert says positive tests ominously highIndia reported a further decline in new coronavirus cases on Monday, but daily deaths remained above 4,000 and experts said the count was unreliable due to a lack of testing in rural areas where the virus is spreading fast.India's electricity use falls in May due to Covid-19 lockdownsIndia's electricity use fell 6.2% during the first half of May compared with the second half of April, government data showed, as coronavirus lockdowns imposed by states across the country stifled power demand.Over 2 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses available with states: CentreMore than two crore Covid-19 vaccine doses are still available with the states and Union territories, while nearly three lakh doses are in the pipeline and will be received by them within the next three days, the Union health ministry said on Monday.Andhra Pradesh govt extends 18-hour partial lockdown till May endAndhra Pradesh government extends 18-hour partial lockdown till May end.Govt lays out procedure to rehabilitate children who lost parents to CovidThe government has laid out a procedure for rehabilitation of children who lost their parents to Covid-19.Frontline staff at Bangkok hospital brace for new Covid-19 casesAs Thailand struggles to deal with its worst wave of coronavirus infections, staff in the intensive care unit of Bangkok's King Chulalongkorn Memorial Hospital are fearful of what may be to come.Daily new Covid cases being registered in India are now less than 3 lakhs: GovtDaily new Covid cases being registered in India are now less than 3 lakhs after 26 days. A declining trend in the weekly positivity rate is also observed which stands at 18.17% : Government of India.Sanofi, Glaxo Covid vaccine works well in second chance: StudySanofi and GlaxoSmithKline Plc reported positive results from a redo of a mid-stage study for their Covid-19 vaccine, putting the delayed shot on track for possible clearance by the end of the year.Bengali poet Joy Goswami tests positive for Covid-19, admitted to Kolkata hospitalRenowned Bengali poet Joy Goswami, who tested positive for Covid-19, has been admitted to a hospital here, a health department official said.Taiwan stocks swoon on Covid-19 fears despite reassurance effortsTaiwan stocks closed 3% lower on Monday even as the premier sought to reassure that the island's economic fundamentals were good with demand for export orders strong and production activities normal.Rajnath Singh, Harsh Vardhan release 1st batch of anti-Covid drug 2DGDefence Minister Rajnath Singh and Union Health Minister Dr Harsh Vardhan release first batch of Anti-Covid drug 2DG developed by DRDO.J-K govt provides free Covid care kits to patients in home isolationJammu and Kashmir government is reaching out to Covid-19 patients in home isolation at their doorsteps and providing them special Covid care kits free of cost.UK Covid-19 restrictions eased despite variant concernsMost of the UK takes a major step towards normality on Monday as coronavirus restrictions are eased, despite concerns over the spread of a more transmissible variant of the disease.India's Covid-19 tally at 24.96 million with 281,386 fresh casesIndia on Monday recorded 281,386 fresh Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours, according to Union health ministry dashboard. As many as 4,106 new deaths were also registered. The country has so far reported a total of 24.96 million cases and 274,390 deaths. India is currently reeling under a second Covid-19 wave.15,73,515 samples were tested yesterday: ICMR31,64,23,658 samples tested for Covid-19 up to 16th May 2021. Of these, 15,73,515 samples were tested yesterday: Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).Tamil Nadu forms legislators' Advisory Committee to combat Covid-19The Tamil Nadu Government on Sunday said that it had formed a thirteen-member Legislators' Advisory Committee which is headed by Chief Minister MK Stalin and comprises legislative assembly members to tackle the Covid-19 pandemic.S Africa plans to vaccinate 5 mn citizens at highest risk of Covid death by JuneSouth Africa has announced an ambitious plan to vaccinate by the end of June its five million citizens at the highest risk of dying from Covid-19 in the second phase of its programme to combat the pandemic.Thailand reports daily record of Covid-19 cases, including jail clustersThailand reported on Monday a daily record of 9,635 new coronavirus cases, including 6,853 infections among prisoners from jail clusters, as the Southeast Asian country struggles with a third wave of infections.Mizoram reports 150 new Covid-19 cases and 1 deathMizoram reports 150 new Covid-19 cases and 1 death on Sunday. Active cases at 2,117 and death toll at 25.Allocation of Remdesivir made upto May 23 to ensure adequate availability: GowdaConsidering the requirement of Remdesivir in every state and ensuring its adequate availability, Union Minister of Chemicals and Fertilisers DV Sadananda Gowda on Sunday announced that the allocation of Remdesivir has been made upto May 23.China reports 25 new mainland Covid-19 cases, most in over 6 weeksMainland China reported 25 new Covid-19 cases on May 16, up from 18 cases a day earlier and marking the highest daily increase in more than six weeks, the country's national health authority said on Monday.UNICEF says rich countries can afford to donate Covax jabsCountries belonging to the G7 and the European Union can afford to donate more than 150 million vaccines to countries in need without compromising their own goals, UNICEF said Monday.South Africa launches plan to vaccinate 5m citizens, at risk of Covid death, by JuneSouth Africa has announced an ambitious plan to vaccinate by the end of June its five million citizens at the highest risk of dying from Covid-19 in the second phase of its programme to combat the pandemic.Boris Johnson urges caution as B.1.617.2 variant from India clouds UK’s unlockingUK Prime Minister Boris Johnson said the next step out of lockdown must be taken “with a heavy dose of caution” as more coronavirus restrictions are lifted on Monday.Rajnath Singh to release first batch of DRDO's 2DG medicine todayThe first batch of the 2-deoxy-D-glucose (2-DG) drug developed by the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) for treatment of Covid-19 will be released by Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-india-world-latest-news-covid-19-death-toll-may-17-2021-101621208403891.html
