19-05-2021||News||Maratha quota: A double-edged sword for Maharashtra government||Last Tuesday, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray along with a group of ministers called on Maharashtra governor B S Koshyari and submitted a letter addressed to President Ramnath Kovind. Thackeray’s letter referred to Supreme Court (SC)’s May 5 judgement scrapping the quota given to the Maratha community in 2018. In its order, the apex court pointed out that the powers to create a new category of socially and economically backward communities and give it reservation rest with the President. In his letter, Thackeray has requested the President and Prime Minister Narendra Modi to restore the quota for the Maratha community in government jobs and education. He also announced that he will take an all-party delegation to meet Modi seeking a decision on the same by the Centre.The move is political and aimed at sending a message to the Maratha community, which is unhappy with the SC verdict. It puts the onus of giving them the reservation on the Centre. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), the state’s principal opposition party, has called the verdict a failure of the state government in convincing the Supreme Court that the Marathas needed the quota.“The previous BJP government in the state gave the reservation to Marathas but the MVA [Maharashtra Vikas Agadi] government failed to defend it,” said state BJP chief Chandrakant Patil on Saturday as he announced that his party will participate in agitations of the Maratha community for the reservation.The Centre has now filed a review petition in the SC urging it to revisit the part of the order in which it has said that states have no right to decide reservation following the 102nd amendment in the Constitution. Politically, it will help the BJP as it can argue that its government at the Centre is doing everything possible for the Marathas while the MVA government in the state has failed.If the SC accepts the Centre’s contention, then the ball will be back in the state government’s court. It will have to then make a fresh bid for the Maratha quota.Only other option?Maratha outfits have threatened to launch a state-wide agitation in support of their demand. One of the community leaders, Vinayak Mete, who aligned with the BJP in the 2014 and 2019 elections, has announced a march from Beed in central Maharashtra from June 5. With the Maratha outfits getting restless, Thackeray does not have many options. Broadly, he seems to have two options as of now. First, to get the Centre to give the Marathas reservation, and second to include Marathas on the list of Other Backward Classes (OBC) and adjust their quota accordingly.Also Read | India’s Covid-19 hot spots on recovery road: DataIn the current political scenario, nobody believes the Centre will bail Thackeray out. The MVA has started petitioning the Centre, but it is not clear how far the Modi government would go on this issue.“It is difficult for the Centre to take an initiative to give reservation to Marathas. If we do it, there will be similar demands from other states. Patidars in Gujarat or Jats or Gujjars too will demand similar decisions by the Centre. Besides, if the apex court accepts the stand that states do have powers to give reservation, the entire responsibility will be of the MVA government in the state. However, convincing the apex court to reverse its May 5 order and again give reservation to Marathas will be a very difficult task,” said a BJP leader, requesting anonymity. “Why should the Centre step in and save the face of the Thackeray government, especially when the Maratha community forms a significant support base of the ruling coalition?”Legal experts said the judgement makes it pretty clear that Marathas do not need the reservation. The SC has rejected the findings of the state-appointed M G Gaikwad Commission, which had made a case for the backwardness of Marathas. Many think the chances of the state being able to provide a separate quota is almost zero. As such, the only viable option left is to include Marathas in the OBC category.“The Supreme Court order is clear. All judges [of the five-member bench] agreed that Marathas do not need the reservation,” said Shrihari Aney, a former advocate general of Maharashtra. He said the states cannot exceed the limit of 50% quota. “My suggestion before the Bombay High Court [when the issue was heard there] was that the caste could be included on the OBC list. The state government did not want to disturb the existing OBC then and hence created a separate class which has now been struck down by the Supreme Court. Still, within the framework, there could be a way out by way of inclusion in the OBCs,” Aney said.Balkrishna Renake, the former chairman of the National Commission for Denotified, Nomadic, and Semi Nomadic Tribes, said the state government can include Marathas in the OBC group. “There is a procedure to do it by getting the State Backward Class Commission to submit a report on the same. In fact, when the Maratha agitation began initially, the demand was to add them to the OBC quota. However, OBC community leaders strongly opposed the same. It was political decision to provide a separate quota.”Also Read | Covid-19: What you need to know todayRenake said the SC is unlikely to reverse its order if one considers the grounds on which the Maratha reservation has been scrapped. “That leaves the state government with the option to include Marathas in the OBCs.”Some Maratha leaders, too, have been demanding the same.“The demand is old, and we think it is an option if the reservation does not stand in the SC if there is a review of the May 5 order,” said Vinod Patil, a Maratha leader and a petitioner in the case.“We want the state government to try really hard to get the decision reversed using all available options for legal recourse. If it does not happen it has to include Marathas in the OBCs. After all, Kunbis are already given the reservation under the OBC category.” Kunbi is a peasant sub-caste of the Marathas.Aney said the government can talk to the representatives of the OBC castes to see if they agree to accommodate the Marathas.That is where the government is facing a major problem. The OBCs are strongly opposing the inclusion of Marathas in their quota. The OBC leaders are demanding that there should be a revision in their quota since they want it to be increased. The OBCs in Maharashtra includes 346 castes and collectively their population is more than one third of the state’s population. Community leader have also been demanding a fresh caste-wise census to prove that their population is close to half of state’s population.“We are about 45% of the population in Maharashtra but our quota is 32% for over 340 castes. We do not say Marathas should not be given opportunities, but we don’t want to sacrifice our meagre quota for them,” said Chandrakant Bavkar, working president of the OBC Jan Morcha. “If they are accommodated in the OBC quota, they will corner most benefits and due to their social backwardness most existing OBC castes cannot compete with them.”Political tussleIn Maharashtra, OBCs, Scheduled Castes, and Scheduled Tribes get quotas in the three-tier panchayat system and municipal bodies. OBC leaders say the quota will get badly affected if Marathas are included in their category. “There was a demand for a separate five percent quota within the OBC category for Marathas. Even if Marathas are given a one percent separate quota under the OBC category, they will be liable for OBC reservation in local government bodies which they already dominate. It will mean our representation will be wiped out,” Bavkar said.In Maharashtra, it is largely a political battle between Marathas and OBCs for dominance. Marathas are the biggest caste (about 32%). In terms of numbers, OBCs too are a significant lot. They are not a well-knit group, but prominent OBC castes stick together in the political battle with Marathas. Even in state administration, there is a tussle between these groups.The OBCs have created their space in state politics and gained weightage. In Maharashtra, Marathas traditionally formed the strong support base for Congress and later the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP). The OBCs backed the BJP and Shiv Sena. OBCs castes such as Vanjari, Mali, Teli supported them.Following the split in Congress in 1999, both Congress and NCP started looking beyond Maratha votes and began wooing OBCs too. NCP succeeded in making inroads in the community by putting forth leaders such as Chhagan Bhujbal, Jitendra Awhad, and Dhananjay Munde. Congress managed to reaffirm its position among the Kunbi community which has a strong presence in the Vidarbha region. Congress’s current state unit chief Nana Patole comes from Kunbi community.The three-party MVA coalition of Shiv Sena, Congress, and NCP face a dilemma. It wants to give quota to the Marathas, but it cannot antagonise OBCs.“Frankly speaking, the MVA government is in an unenviable position now. There are major hurdles in restoring the Maratha quota scrapped by the SC. On the other hand, touching the OBC quota would mean inviting the wrath of a politically aware community that is a big chunk of the population...,” said Pratap Asbe, a political analyst. He added there is no immediate solution to the issue and the impasse could go on for some time.Hemant Desai, another political analyst, said there will be a Maratha versus OBC battle if the government considers the option to include Marathas in the OBC quota. “If something like that happens, the BJP will be at an advantage.”The MVA government is also looking at offering sops that could pacify the Maratha community. “We are looking at giving benefits such as waiving fees of Maratha students in higher education, offering them coaching for competitive examinations, free hostels, interest-free loans for setting up small businesses. Most of these have already been put in place. Some more sops too are being considered,” said an NCP minister. “But the problem is that these sops still would be less attractive as compared to a fixed quota in admissions to higher education courses or government jobs. Besides, the younger lot in the community has seen that few of them got admissions as well as jobs under the quota that was given in 2018. Now once they have seen the possibility of a quota, they don’t want to compromise.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/maratha-quota-a-double-edged-sword-for-maharashtra-government-101621428633323.html
19-05-2021||News||In Kerala’s government formation, Brand Pinarayi establishes control||The lone old face is at the helm and all other existing players have rested — but is it a tussle between old and new faces or a move to establish absolute power of the captain?Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan scripted history in the recent assembly election, becoming the first to retain power in four decades and ending the tradition of power alternating between the state’s two major political coalitions. In the process, he assumed clear primacy in the battle for leadership both in the party and left movement in the country. In the run up to the elections, cadres and media gifted him a title, captain, though the party distanced from it.Vijayan is now at the crease, for his second innings — but with an entirely new team.The effect of new party norms As the campaign for the assembly elections was about to begin, the ruling Communist Party of India (Marxist) announced a new norm — no ticket would be given to legislators who won two terms consecutively. After its thumping win (99 out of 140 seats), another provision was imposed that all ministers will be dropped to make way for new faces.Insiders claim that the party needed to reinvigorate itself to meet fresh challenges, and the West Bengal and Tripura setbacks for the Left had only underlined the urgency of this change.“We don’t have to repeat mistakes of West Bengal and Tripura in Kerala. We need a new crop of leaders both in parliamentary positions and party,” explained senior leader and politburo member S Ramachandran Pillai justifying what he called “inevitable changes.”Also Watch | On The Record: MB Rajesh on why Shailaja was dropped, new Kerala team, & moreBut there is little doubt that these tailor-made norms have helped Pinarayi Vijayan to cement his position in the party and government again. “In the name of new faces the CM has eliminated all potential threats and dissent in the new cabinet. Since all ministers are new entrants absolute power will rest in his hands. The party says it won’t believe in individuality but in turn it strengthens it,” said political observer Umesh Babu.With his move to deny tickets to two-term legislators, the CM had sidelined many permanent fixtures such as finance minister Thomas Isaac, industry minister EP Jayarajan and public works department minister G Sudhakaran.With his move to only have fresh faces, he has removed any possible threat from the most visible and, arguably most popular minister in the outgoing cabinet, KK Shailaja, the face of the fight against pandemic in the state as the health minister. In most pre-poll survey her popularity rating came next to the CM.“We feel something is missing in the new ministry. We all thought Shailaja will be there,” said actor and party camp follower Mala Parvathi.“Dropping Shailaja Teacher would create huge perceptional problems, nationally and internationally and common people, as well as health staff, are already feeling orphaned. Sincerely wish there will be rethink on the issue,” tweeted writer and former bureaucrat NS Madhavan.The CPI(M) state unit has, however, made it clear that there is no looking back. “We stick to our decision. Once the party takes a decision it will be implemented,” said acting secretary A VijayaraghavanVijayan’s expanding control After the party’s victory, when the dominant narrative was focused on how the vote was an affirmation of Vijayan’s leadership, the party’s mouthpiece, People’s Daily, in a sign that all wasn’t well, carried an edit saying that some people were trying to paint it as an individual victory but it was a victory of the party. This, however, did little to diminish Vijayan’s clout.On cabinet appointments, politburo members such as Brinda Karat expressed reservations over omission of Shailaja but the Politburo decided not to interfere with the “unanimous decision” of the state unit.And Vijayan stuck to his decision.Also Read | ‘It’s reckless’: Retd scientist moves SC against Pinarayi Vijayan’s oath event“It seems in the party hierarchy, Vijayan has outgrown even the highest decision making body of the party, Politburo,” said another political observer Appukutan Vallikunnu. In fact, this predated the recent victory, for in 2017, when there was a strong view in favour of a third term in Rajya Sabha for party general secretary Sitaram Yechury with the support of the Congress, the Kerala branch of the party reportedly took a strong position against it.Many detractors of the party also point out the propriety in inducting the CM’s son-in-law PA Mohammed Riyas in the ministry. “The CPI(M) often talks in length about propriety and decency in public life. How did the CM induct his son-in-law when many youngsters are around? There is a big difference between the party’s words and deeds,” said Bharatiya Janata Party leader S Suresh.But CPI(M) state leaders have defended the decision, on the grounds that Riyas has been in active politics for more than two decades and his marriage with CM’s daughter T Veena last year couldn’t be basis to disqualify him.“Criticism in this regard is uncalled for. I rose from the ranks. People who know me will not raise such criticism” said Riyas, who is also the national president of the party youth wing, Democratic Youth Federation of India (DYFI).But all of it put together — a clear victory under his leadership, followed quickly by stamping out any possible political threats and instituting enhanced control over the party and the government — and it shows Pinarayi Vijayan is now not just Kerala’s most important leader but is the dominant decision-maker in the Left in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/in-kerala-s-government-formation-brand-pinarayi-establishes-control-101621427312588.html
19-05-2021||News||How China plays on inter-race ties in the US||Why has China become so vocal about racial tensions in the United States? At their March meeting in Alaska, Yang Jiechi, China’s top foreign policy official, took umbrage with US secretary of state Antony Blinken’s desire to discuss developments in Xinjiang and Hong Kong. “We hope that the United States will do better on human rights,” Yang retorted. “The challenges facing the United States in human rights are deep-seated. They did not just emerge over the past four years, such as Black Lives Matter.”The Black Lives Matter movement arose in the US as a reaction to the systemic use of excessive force by the police against African Americans. Protests were reignited last year following the killing of an African American man, George Floyd, by Minneapolis police officer Derek Chauvin, who was convicted of second-degree murder. The sense of injustice quickly assumed an international character: Black Lives Matter protests were organised in Tokyo, London, Paris, and Auckland. But US race relations have also become increasingly caught up in the geopolitical rivalry with China.Also Read | China, US clash over Winter Olympics boycott callLast year, Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson Hua Chunying tweeted “I can’t breathe” – a slogan associated with Black Lives Matter – in response to criticism by her American counterpart of Chinese actions in Hong Kong. Two years ago, Chinese diplomat Zhao Lijian – then in Pakistan, now Hua’s colleague – tweeted “If you’re in Washington, D.C., you know the white never go to the SW area, because it’s an area for the black & Latin. [sic.] There’s a saying ‘black in & white out’, which means that as long as a black family enters, white people will quit, & price of the apartment will fall sharply.” Although he subsequently deleted the tweet, it did not stop former US national security adviser Susan Rice (now a domestic policy adviser to Biden) from firing back on Twitter: “You are a racist disgrace. And shockingly ignorant too.”Beijing’s sharpening rhetoric concerning US race relations is certainly intended to deflect criticism and draw moral equivalence with the US amid their intensifying battle of narratives. But such Chinese statements also have Cold War precedents.Following the assassination of Martin Luther King Jr in 1968, Mao Zedong stated that “The storm of Afro-American struggle taking place within the United States is a striking manifestation of the comprehensive political and economic crisis now gripping US imperialism…On behalf of the Chinese people, I hereby express resolute support for the struggle of the Black people in the United States.”This mirrored the accusations traded by the US and Soviet Union in the 1950s and 1960s. As the US amplified accounts of Russian gulags, such as those of Alexandr Solzhenitsyn, and criticised the Soviet crackdown in Hungary, Moscow shot back. A 1957 article in Komsomolskaya Pravda lambasted racial segregation in American schools — those “who dream of nooses and dynamite for persons with different-colored skins…these gentlemen have the audacity to talk about ‘democracy’ and speak as supporters of ‘freedom’.”Also Read | US Congress passes Bill to fight hate crime after Asian-American attacksOne difference with the past is that such rhetoric now complements Beijing’s newfound market muscle. Nowhere is that more in evidence than in professional basketball. China remains a massive growth market for the National Basketball Association (NBA) and its sponsors, including apparel manufacturers. In 2019, Daryl Morey, the general manager of the Houston Rockets basketball team, tweeted support for pro-democracy protesters in Hong Kong, prompting NBA’s Chinese sponsors to take punitive measures against the league. Basketball superstar LeBron James – an outspoken supporter of Black Lives Matter who has significant financial stakes and endorsement deals in China – said that Morey “wasn’t educated on the situation at hand...we do have freedom of speech, but there can be a lot of negative that comes with that too”.The episode exposed divergent perspectives. While many American commentators criticised James for echoing Beijing’s talking points, several basketball stars privately felt that the US was being hypocritical by disparaging China while not sufficiently condemning and countering police brutality against African Americans at home.The experience of the film industry suggests that Chinese professions of sympathy for Black Lives Matter are nothing if not cynical. Since Seven Years in Tibet starring Brad Pitt and Martin Scorsese’s Dalai Lama biography Kundun were released in the 1990s, Hollywood has generally refrained from producing content that risks upsetting official Chinese sensitivities. Journalist and author Isaac Stone Fish suggests such self-censorship is tied mostly to the exposure of diversified American media conglomerates to the Chinese market.At the same time, film producers have admitted that casting African American leads has become more difficult because of fears that such films perform less well in foreign markets, including China. A 2017 study published by Johns Hopkins’ Carey School of Business demonstrated that films likely to do well in China began to cast more light-skinned actors in leading roles after 2012, when Beijing started allowing more foreign films to be screened.Domestic social divisions have always intersected with geopolitical rivalries to some degree. But China’s cynical allusions to US race relations have started to have some unforeseen repercussions in an era of greater interdependence.Dhruva Jaishankar is executive director, ORF America The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/how-china-plays-on-intra-race-ties-in-the-us-101621426712621.html
19-05-2021||News||How will Covid-19 impact the NDA govt’s economic record in 2024?||India’s second wave of Covid-19 infections seems to have peaked. Its economic costs might not have. Most parts of the country are still under varying degrees of lockdown. The lingering costs of the lockdown will remain even after the restrictions are removed. This is exactly why various forecasters are doing a downward revision of their GDP forecasts for 2021-22. While differences on the exact magnitude remain, and even the 2020-21 GDP figures might change, there seems to be a wide consensus that the second wave has derailed the incipient economic recovery.We are still in May 2021. The Lok Sabha elections are three years away. But it is worth asking what will be the pandemic’s impact on the economic performance of the current National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government.An HT analysis shows that in all probability, compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of GDP under the current government will be the worst compared to what its predecessors have achieved since 1980s. This will be a sharp contrast to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s first term, which saw the second highest CAGR of GDP for a government.Growth record of past governments The current Lok Sabha is the seventeenth in India. Comparing the CAGR of GDP by the term of each Lok Sabha – some have had more than prime minister – is a good way to look at the economic performance of each government.GDP growth went down for the first three post-independence governments. It was 4.47% for the Jawaharlal Nehru government from 1952-57 and came down to 2.67% under the Nehru-Lal Bahadur Shahstri-Indira Gandhi government from 1962-67. Nehru and Shastri died while in office. There was a brief revival during the 1966-71 Indira Gandhi government, but growth fell again in the 1970s. It was in 1980s the CAGR of GDP under a full-term government crossed the 5% barrier for the first time, a level which has never been missed since then.Also Read | Pandemic has led to rise in poverty, inequality; don’t be complacent: JNU profThe first United Progressive Alliance (UPA) government under Manmohan Singh achieved the highest ever CAGR of 8% GDP growth under its full-term. Narendra Modi’s first term in office had a GDP CAGR of 7.4%, the second highest for a full-term government in India. The CAGR for second UPA government and the first Modi government are based on 2011-12 GDP series numbers. For all other periods 2004-05 GDP numbers have been taken.What will be the CAGR of GDP for the current NDA government? The short answer is we do not know, as number will depend on GDP numbers for 2022-23 and 2023-24. But it is useful of think of a relay race model while answering this question.CAGR of GDP for a five-year government is contingent on GDP growth in each of the five years. This is pretty much like a relay race, where victory, loss or overall time taken is dependent on the performance of every individual runner in the team.In its second term, the government had a bad start to the relay race even before the pandemic. GDP growth in 2019-20 was just 4%, the lowest since 2008-09. With the pandemic and the 68-day long national lockdown disrupting economic activity, 2020-21 actually saw a GDP contraction of 8%.For the GDP CAGR of this government to come closer to that of its predecessors, GDP growth in the next three years will have to be very high. This is the same as relay race runners having to make up for lost time by their predecessors. As is the case with relay race runners, there are limits to GDP growth as well.It will be very difficult for the government to match its predecessors’ economic performance Assuming different rates of GDP growth in 2021-22, one can calculate the required GDP CAGR from 2021-22 to 2023-24 which will be needed to achieve a given GDP CAGR during the full-term of the second Modi government (2018-19 to 2023-24).In order for the government to meet its first term GDP CAGR of 7.4%, GDP growth will have to exceed 15% in 2022-23 and 2023-24 even if 2021-22 GDP growth is 11%. Many private forecasters have come out with lower numbers for the current year, though . For example, S&P Global Ratings put this number at 9.8% last week. If the 2021-22 GDP growth is 9%, and GDP growth between 2021-22 and 2023-24 is 8%, overall CAGR of GDP under the second Modi government would be just 4%, the worst since the 1980s.The following table gives a matrix of CAGR of GDP under the government for different levels of 2021-22 GDP growth and CAGR of GDP from 2021-22 to 2023-24.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/how-will-covid-19-impact-the-nda-government-s-economic-record-in-2024-101621425932421.html
19-05-2021||News||Will US Covid vaccine patent waiver lead to more jabs in India? Not really||Maya Johal, a 29-year-old schoolteacher in Delhi, booked herself for a coronavirus vaccine shot a week ago, but is still awaiting her turn. “I was turned away from a vaccine facility. I was told that supplies were over,” she said.Like many developing nations, India is struggling to cope with a surge in vaccine demand, amid a shortage, even as it battles the second wave of Covid-19 infections.The global inequity Mass immunisation is the only way to end the pandemic but rising global inequality in vaccine access stands as a colossal hurdle. “Most developing countries will not have widespread access to the shots before 2023 at the earliest,” said a recent forecast by the Economist Intelligence Unit.According to an April 26 assessment by the Global Commission for Post-Pandemic Policy, a United States (US)-based thinktank, the “declared (manufacturing) target” for approved vaccine doses is 14.6 billion by 2021-end. This requires 13.4 billion more doses to be produced during the next eight months, or an average of 1.675 billion doses per month. “That is four times the monthly run-rate seen in April,” it said.According to WHO, nearly 80% of Covid-19 vaccines have been administered in just 10 rich countries, while more than 2.5 billion people await their first shots.A surprising US decision on May 5 has however stirred hopes of bridging the great vaccine gap. The Joe Biden administration said it would support temporarily waiving intellectual property protections for coronavirus vaccines, something India and South Africa are pushing for.If the proposal moved by India and South Africa jointly on October 2, 2020, at World Trade Organization (WTO) goes through with US backing, it would prevent countries from implementing patents, trade secrets or other monopolies on Covid-19 vaccines under the WTO’s agreement on Trade-Related Intellectual Property Rights or TRIPS.Also Read | Will work with COVAX, partners to distribute 80mn Covid-19 vaccines: Prez BidenIndia’s waiver application is, however, not limited to vaccines but includes “diagnostics and therapeutics in relation to prevention, containment or treatment of Covid-19”. Pharma companies enjoy patents, which legally protect their products from being copied or cheaper generic versions being made. This allows developers of original products a monopoly to earn profits, for 20 years at the minimum.Decoding the jab Analysts agree that the US stand marks a radical change of policy but are yet unsure whether this will achieve any real result for developing countries like India.“Whether America’s support of the waiver will have impact on people’s lives in India depends on a number of factors, such as how quickly the negotiations move and what the terms of the final waiver are,” said Priti Radha Krishtel, co-founder of Initiative for Medicines, Access & Knowledge (I-MAK).Experts say waiving patents, especially of vaccines based on the highly effective mRNA technologies, will be of little help in the short run. Most manufacturers will simply not have the know-how – which are technological processes not protected by patents – to produce quality and safe vaccines. Raw materials – nanolipids and bioreactor bags -- are already scarce.“The EU is still opposed to the idea (of a waiver). Between Switzerland, Germany and Japan, there is a formidable opposition to even discuss the proposal (at WTO),” said Biswajit Dhar, an economist with the Jawaharlal Nehru University, who has previously advised the Union government on WTO deals.Also Read | A new chapter for the TRIPS waiver proposalWTO’s director general Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala has said the body would take up the issue of IP waiver for Covid vaccine in December.“Just having access to a patent does not mean all countries are equipped with the technological infrastructure to scale up manufacturing of generic counterparts. Companies such as Moderna and Pfizer will need to establish helpful partnerships and collaborations with companies, say in India,” said Bhramar Mukherjee, professor of global public health at University of Michigan.A web of licences Developing countries also may not understand the full web of intellectual property rights governing a vaccine candidate.“For example, the underlying technology used to develop a vaccine can be protected by patents, while manufacturing methods and techniques (know-how) can be protected by trade secrets,” wrote authors Mario Gaviria and Burcu Kilic in the first analysis of mNRA vaccine patents in the journal Nature published on May 12, 2021. According to them “multiple forms of intellectual property protection stand in the way of equitable access and fair allocation”.Some of the most impressive mRNA-based vaccine candidates are produced by the likes of Moderna, Pfizer and BioNTech, CureVac and Arcturus.In their paper, “A network analysis of Covid-19 mRNA vaccine patents”, Gaviria and Kilic explain that this vaccine platform uses multiple technologies, including the main mRNA technology, lipid nanoparticle technology and a delivery-system. A lipid nanoparticle, which is like a ball of fat, is used to deliver the mRNA to the cells, which “makes it a key aspect of the vaccine’s technology”, the authors write. After the mRNA is delivered to a cell, it “instructs the cell to produce the SARS-CoV-2 spike protein, thereby eliciting an immune response”. Each of these steps involves a sub-licence. The authors note that US federal filings “reveal a series of sub-licenses for mRNA-related patents that stem from the University of Pennsylvania to both Moderna and BioNTech”.Analysis by Gaviria and Kilic also show that the University of Pennsylvania exclusively licensed their patents to “mRNA RiboTherapeutics”, a firm which then “sublicensed them to its affiliate CellScript”, another biotech firm. CellScript then sublicensed the patents to Moderna and BioNTech.Also Read | Head of Canada’s Covid vaccine roll-out accused of misconduct; new chief namedPointing to a complex web, the researchers noted: “However, the patent numbers are redacted in all the filings, making it difficult to determine which are relevant to the production of Covid-19 vaccines.”India’s advantage and way forward Health experts say one potential solution to end the vaccine shortage — one that the World Health Organization has backed — is a “patent pool” similar to one used to make HIV drugs available to poorer countries in the 1990s. It depends on voluntary sharing of recipes and data, for which no Covid-19 vaccine manufacturer has shown interest yet.Trade experts such as JNU’s Dhar said sIndia has an indigenously developed vaccine candidate like Covaxin, manufactured by Bharat Biotech in collaboration with the state-run Indian Council of Medical Research and National Institute of Virology.“Unless knowledge and expertise are also transferred, largescale manufacturing of vaccines may not be feasible,” executive director of Bharat Biotech Sai D. Prasad said, saying technology transfer partnerships are needed, aside from the main recipe for the vaccines.Many public health professionals who advocate vaccines as a “global common good” say developing nations do have the capacities to make quality shots.The Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations recently drew up a list of 250 companies globally capable of making quality vaccines if IP waiver is obtained. These include Bangladesh’s Incepta, India’s Bharat Biotech and South Africa’s Aspen Pharmacare.Els Torreele, policy associate at the University College London’s Institute for Innovation and Public Purpose, said India, as a “large economy with abundant capacities for pharmaceutical production including vaccines, is in an excellent position to quickly retool production lines for the manufacturing of a variety of technologies and raw materials needed for the global scale up of Covid-19 vaccines”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/will-the-us-covid-vaccine-patent-waiver-lead-to-more-jabs-in-india-it-s-not-that-simple-101621322953374.html
19-05-2021||News||As WPI spikes and rural incomes dip, is India staring at stagflation?||Wholesale Price Index (WPI), the best proxy for producer prices in India, grew at a record 10.5% in April 2021. This is the highest year-on-year growth in the 2011-12 WPI series. Wholesale inflation in April was a record 6.19 percentage points higher than retail inflation, as measured by the Consumer Price Index (CPI) value in April 2021. The difference between WPI and CPI is largely a reflection of difference in composition of the two indices – CPI, unlike WPI, is built to capture household budgets and has a higher weight of food and services – rather than a difference in economic conditions in wholesale and retail markets. What has been increasing at a fast pace are prices of manufactured goods and important intermediate inputs such as fuel.Also Read | Pandemic has led to rise in poverty, inequality; don’t be complacent: JNU profAn HT analysis of inflation numbers suggests that this could be a beginning of a trajectory where incomes and therefore purchasing power in rural India will face a disproportionate squeeze. Such a development, if it persists, could generate headwinds for rural demand going forward. This can potentially shut down the rural demand engine of the economy at a time when urban India is already reeling under the impact of lockdowns, and contribute to a stagflation – low growth, high inflation – like situation.Non-food prices are driving both CPI and WPI While the April WPI numbers mark an all-time high, CPI actually came down from its 5.5% value in March 2021 to 4.3% in April 2021. Retail inflation in April was at much lower levels compared to what it had been in the last year. The April 2021 value is the second lowest in the last twelve months.However, there is one common thread which is visible in the latest CPI and WPI numbers. Prices of non-food items are growing at a faster pace than that of food items. In the WPI basket, inflation in the primary food articles category is lagging behind overall food prices. This suggests that prices received by farmers are particularly sluggish at the moment.Real rural wages have been stagnant, and they could fall going forward The latest available rural wage data – this can be considered a good proxy for incomes at the bottom of the pyramid – is for the month of March 2021. In real terms, rural wages in March 2021 were marginally lower than what they were in March 2019. The situation is likely to become worse going forward as the second wave of Covid-19 infections disrupted economic activity and has led to lockdown or similar restrictions in most parts of the country. Lockdowns means fall in economic activity, which entails shedding of workforce and hence reduction in wages. The Nomura India Business Resumption Index (NIBRI) fell to 61.9 – 100 being the pre-pandemic level of economic activity — in the week ending May 16. It was at 94.6 in the week ending March 28. Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE) database shows a rise in unemployment levels in the month of April compared to March.Fall in rural wages could create further price pressures for food items Stagnant or falling rural incomes are bad news for food demand. Food items have a weight of 47.3% in the rural CPI basket, compared to just 29.7% in urban areas. The difference is particularly high in case of cereals and vegetables, the two food-items which have suffered the biggest disinflation in April. While the public distribution system provides for subsidised provisioning of rice and wheat to the poor, thereby providing a cushion against income shock driven consumption, no such support exists for vegetables. This can create further headwinds for vegetable prices.Policy induced high fuel prices will create tailwinds for cost of cultivation Prices in the fuel and power sub-category of the WPI grew at 20.9% on a year-on-year basis in April 2021. This increase is a result of 45% inflation in the mineral oils (petroleum) category. Coal prices grew by just 0.6% while electricity prices actually contracted by 2.5%. The rise in petroleum prices is largely policy-driven as the government has not withdrawn high taxes it had imposed on petrol and diesel when crude petroleum prices fell sharply owing to a collapse in demand a year ago.A comparison of the mineral oils WPI index and India’s crude oil basket (COB) price data from the ministry of petroleum shows this clearly. While COB prices are at much lower levels than their historic high, the mineral oil WPI index is at a disproportionately higher level. Unless the government brings down its taxes, high petroleum prices will add to farming costs both directly (use of pump sets) and indirectly (cascading affect through other goods). Because petrochemicals are an important component in the fertiliser industry, their prices are also expected to rise as crude oil prices normalise from last year’s lows.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/as-wpi-spikes-and-rural-incomes-dip-is-india-staring-at-stagflation-101621318873871.html
19-05-2021||Noida||In Ghaziabad, civic agency’s teams step in as kin prefer to bid adieu from afar at crematoriums||Ghaziabad: Suraj Kumar is one of the non-regular staff members of a small, six-member team roped in by the Ghaziabad municipal corporation to make arrangements for the cremation of Covid-related and suspected deaths at the Hindon cremation ground. He says that the effect of the pandemic is such that families stay away from handling or touching bodies, with him and his team members providing them all possible help.An HT visit to the Hindon cremation ground revealed that several families preferred to stay away from handling bodies of their kin or even placing them on the platforms due to fear of infection. The bodies of suspected cases, too, arrived packed in bags, as per Covid protocols. “They look upon us to help them out and we don’t deny them. The situation is such that people are scared. But this is work for us. We unload bodies and place them on platforms, placing wood over them to start the cremation. Only those family members come near the bodies which have PPE kits on. Still, they keep a safe distance. Our team works in time slots, and we handle the burning pyres as late as midnight,” said Suraj Kumar, one of the members of the team at the Hindon cremation ground.“Generally, kin leave after the pyre is lit. It usually takes four-six hours thereafter, but people leave within half-an-hour to one hour, maximum. They do not want to stay in a high-risk area for long. But our team works in time slots and ensures till midnight to ensure blaze is spread to all parts the entire body. We also ensure that masks and PPE kits are disposed of safely. Sometimes, they are thrown about in the open, but we take care of them,” Kumar added.A family which arrived at the cremation ground to collect the ashes stayed away from the platform and a majority of the work was taken up by the team members for them. “They are really a great help as people stay away from the platforms and some are scared to even get close to the pyres. The team performs many tasks during the last rites and helps out families who have suffered losses. The situation is such that people do not want to even touch the bodies,” the family member of a person who died of Covid, requesting anonymity, said. The officials of the corporation said that the team members were not regular staff of the corporation but were roped in under the “Kendriya Ajivika Mission” scheme, which would earn them a monthly sum of about ₹8000 each. “We have also roped in more team members to look after the drinking water and parking arrangements and another team of three-four is working at the other crematorium at Noor Nagar. We have given them protection kits, masks and sanitizers for safety. This team was roped in this year as the burden increased suddenly during April, and they are managing the work in a proper manner,” said Pramod Kumar, additional municipal commissioner. Mohammad Yusuf, another team member at Hindon, said that given the present situation, the team members go out of the way to help families. “Like in cases when one has to collect ashes, people prefer to pick only a few and our team helps them out with the rest. Cleaning platforms and preparing them for the next cremation is also part of the work. The remnants of the ashes also need to be disposed of safely. It is now a routine job for us and if we begin to feel scared, we will not be able to perform our duties. Helping out families in their painful moments in turn helps us be at peace,” he added.Officials said they have worked out a plan for testing and vaccination of the team members. According to officials familiar with the development, cremation of about 370 Covid-19 and Covid-suspected cases took place at the Hindon cremation ground in April. “At present, the numbers have reduced to a maximum of 15 cremations of confirmed or suspected cases per day. The team is still on the job. We will get them tested at regular intervals and will also ensure that they get vaccinated at the earliest, as their job is of such nature that it requires their regular health monitoring,” the additional municipal commissioner said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/in-ghaziabad-civic-agency-s-teams-step-in-as-kin-prefer-to-bid-adieu-from-afar-at-crematoriums-101621448855111.html
19-05-2021||Noida||GB Nagar admin begins exercise to make over 400 more ICU beds for kids||NOIDA: The Gautam Budh Nagar administration has started the process of creating 425 paediatric intensive care unit (PICU) beds in the district. The move comes in the wake of predictions that a third wave of Covid-19 is possible which will likely affect children.Officials said that 350 PICU beds will be created at the Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS) in Greater Noida, while 75 such beds will be set up at the Super Specialty Paediatric Hospital and Post Graduate Teaching Institute, better known as Child PGI, in Noida. At present, there are 150 PICU beds in Child PGI, the officials said. GB Nagar district magistrate Suhas LY said that the PICU beds will provide exclusive care for children needing treatment for the coronavirus disease. “At Child PGI, we are trying to increase the number of PICU beds from 150 beds to 225 beds. On the other hand, there are 350 ICU beds ready at GIMS, which can be converted into PICU beds any moment. Being a paediatrician himself, it’ll not be a tough task for the GIMS director to convert them into PICU beds,” he said. “Besides, we are also looking for private medical colleges and hospitals in the district, where PICU beds can be arranged in case of any emergency,” Suhas said.The DM further said that following the instructions given by the chief minister during his recent visit to Noida, the health department officials have been asked to make proper coordination with all departments concerned to control any critical situation. “The training of health officials for working in PICUs has already begun,” he said. GB Nagar chief medical officer Dr Deepak Ohri said that a meeting regarding PICU beds will be held on Thursday, where the further course of action will be determined. Dr Rakesh Gupta, the GIMS director, said, “During the first and second waves, our doctors and paramedics won the accolades for their exemplary services to Covid-19 patients. I am pretty sure that even if a third wave comes, we’ll not let the chief minister down,” he said. Dr Akash Raj, medical director of Child PGI, said that if the beds available in the district hospital – which is presently being run from Child PGI’s building – will be added to our kitty, the number of beds to accommodate paediatric patients here will go up to 350. “At the moment, we are ready with 150 beds and it can be increased to 225 any moment,” he said. Ajit Kumar, joint registrar of Sharda hospital, said that they have proper infrastructure to convert their ICU beds into PICU beds. “We’ll follow all the directives of the government in this connection,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/gbnagar-admin-begins-exercise-to-make-over-400-more-icu-beds-for-kids-101621448795773.html
19-05-2021||Noida||Black fungus drug in shortage in Noida, Ghaziabad||Noida/Ghaziabad: Patients suffering from Mucormycosis or black fungus, as it is commonly dubbed, are having a hard time fetching drugs for its treatment in Noida and Ghaziabad. Doctors are prescribing the drug Liposomal Amphotericin B to such patients. However, SOS (save our souls) calls looking for the same have increased on social media since the last week.Sector 61 resident Sukhpal Singh Toor said he was unable to find the injection for an acquaintance of his in Noida for two days.“I made several calls all over the city looking for the injection but it is not available anywhere. We ultimately had to source the injection from Delhi,” he said.Doctors also said that patients are getting frustrated over the unavailability of the drug. “Number of black fungus patients has increased in our OPD since last week. However, patients are unable to procure the drug, Liposomal Amphotericin B, used to treat it. The shortage is not just in Noida but seems like the problem persists all over the National Capital Region,” said Dr Sudhir Gupta, chest physician and bronchoscopist at Kailash Hospital, Sector 27, Noida.The drug is being prescribed in large quantities, which makes it further difficult to procure, say kin of patients. “My sister-in-law was prescribed 30 vials of Liposomal Amphotericin B as the fungus has almost reached the eyes. We could only buy around 10 such vials from Delhi,” said Diwarkar Varshney, a resident of Vaishali, Ghaziabad.According to doctors, earlier the drug used to be available at pharmacies and hospitals. “This drug was very low in demand earlier but due to the sudden spike in cases, it has gone out of stock. However, it is available at our hospitals,” said Dr DK Gupta, chairman and managing director, Felix Hospital, Sector 137, Noida.Dr Savyasachi Saxena, an ENT surgeon at Fortis Hospital, Noida added that while OPD patients are unable to find the drug in Noida, “the injections are available at the hospital as of now and are being given to IPD patients. However, OPD patients are unable to find the drug anywhere else,” he said.Doctors said that black marketing of the drug seems to have begun as well. “I had prescribed Amphotericin B Deoxycholate to a patient on Tuesday that is generally available for ₹300 per vial. However, he told me that he could not find it in Ghaziabad and had to procure it for ₹3,000 from a seller in Delhi,” said Dr Nripen Vishnoi, senior ENT and cochlear implant surgeon, Yashoda Super Speciality Hospital Ghaziabad.The Gautam Budh Nagar administration has requested the Uttar Pradesh Medical Supply Corporation Limited to provide the drug to the district. “We have sent a request to the UPSMC to procure Liposomal Amphotericin B. We hope that the district will not have a shortage of this drug,” said Suhas LY, district magistrate, GB Nagar, adding that the total tally of black fungus cases in the district has not been documented officially.Meanwhile, Ghaziabad district magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey said: “We are aware that there is a shortage of the drug for black fungus in the district. For this, we have created a list of verified distributors of Liposomal Amphotericin which will be issued to the public soon.”As per doctors, there are generally three types of Amphotericin B available in the market and patients who have been prescribed Liposomal Amphotericin B should not confuse it with the other two variants.“The first variant is the Amphotericin B (conventional) or Deoxycholate, which is available for ₹300 per vial in the market. However, this one is not prescribed to patients of black fungus because it can result in kidney damage, as most patients of Mucormycosis are diabetic. However if the patient is taken care of properly by the physician and if they do not have a history of kidney issues, they can be administered this drug,” said Dr Vishnoi.“The second variant is lipid complex Amphotericin B, which is also rarely used because of its toxicity. The most commonly used is the third variant, Liposomal Amphotericin B, which is renal safe and is being commonly prescribed by doctors to treat black fungus patients,” he added.One 50 mg vial of Liposomal Amphotericin B is generally available in the market for ₹6,000. However, since its dose is high, patients are prescribed multiple vials at once.“The dosage of Liposomal Amphotericin B is prescribed at five-seven milligram per kilogram of the patient’s weight per day. As a result, if a person weighs 60 kg, they will need 300 mg of the drug; so a patient has to buy six vials a day which comes to around ₹30,000,” said Dr Vishnoi.For mild cases of Mucormycosis or patients who have completed one course of Amphotericin B, Posaconazole tablets or Noxafil (posaconazole) syrups are prescribed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/black-fungus-drug-in-shortage-in-noida-ghaziabad-101621448795134.html
19-05-2021||Noida||Test positivity rate at 5-week low in Ghaziabad, experts say peak almost over||Ghaziabad: The weekly average test positivity rate (TPR) in the district, which started rising from mid of April, has come down to five-week low at 5.37% during May 13-19, indicating that Covid-19 cases have started to decline. According to an analysis of the health department records for five weeks from April 15 to May 19, average TPR started with 7.34% in the week April 15 to 21 (6,212 average tests yielding 456 positive cases) and fell to 5.37% in the last week (6,754 tests giving 363 cases). The World Health Organization (WHO) states that the positivity rate needs to come down below 5% for the outbreak to be considered under control.During the five weeks, the average TPR had increased to 13.04% (730 cases out of 5,598 tests) from April 22-28. It further peaked to a new high of 40.73% during April 29 to May 5 when 2,660 tests gave 1,083 positive cases. The test positivity rate is the ratio of positive cases resulting out of tests conducted in a day. The district was given a daily target to conduct 1,700 RT-PCR tests and 3,500 tests through rapid kits. On May 11, the target was revised by the government to 2,900 RT-PCR tests and 5,250 rapid antigen tests. The district implemented the order from May 16. District magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey said that the distribution of medicine kits has proved a great help in early treatment. “We have been largely able to control the spread of infection which was high from mid of April to first week of May. The number of cases is on a decline. Now, we are focussing on testing in rural areas. We have 161 gram panchayats, and we have given two days to our officials to open up 140 health sub-centres where testing will start,” he said. Pandey said that once the sub-centres start, the focus will be initially to screen suspected cases with rapid antigen kits and later RT-PCR tests will also be conducted. “The Auxiliary Nurse Midwife (ANM) workers will be trained for the purpose of testing, and we are also hiring more lab technicians. The sub-centres will be monitored by the primary health centres of the area,” he added. Experts said that though the cases seem to be declining, examining further two weeks would indicate whether the situation is of a decline or a plateau. “The peak seems to be over. The overall figures indicate that we are either at a plateau situation or there is a decline. At present, only a few positive cases are coming in, but a high number of patients are still in ICU or on ventilators due to severity of infection. So, we need to examine situation for another two weeks to safely say that there is a decline,” said Dr VB Jindal, former president of Indian Medical Association (Ghaziabad). Augmentation of oxygen capacityThe DM said that the district has decided to augment the capacity of the oxygen plant at Bhojpur and also to open a new plant at Modinagar. “The augmentation of the existing plant will be over two acres of land for which we have received a proposal. Also, there is a proposal for a new plant at Modinagar. Work for the other nine new plants is in progress and will be completed shortly. We have also asked the hospitals having more than 50 beds to install oxygen plants. All these measures will give a major boost to oxygen capacity in Ghaziabad,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/test-positivity-rate-at-5-week-low-in-ghaziabad-experts-say-peak-almost-over-101621448735083.html
19-05-2021||Patna||Tejashwi Yadav converts his govt residence into Covid care centre; ruling parties call it ‘drama’||Continuing his offensive stance against the Bihar government over alleged mismanagement in handling Covid-19 surge in the second wave, leader of the opposition Tejashwi Prasad Yadav on Wednesday converted his official residence at 1 Polo Road in the state capital as a Covid care centre as a gesture to extend help to Covid-19. In a letter to chief minister Nitish Kumar, Yadav urged the state government to take over the centre for its operationalisation.“There is already a huge shortage of beds and isolation centre. Poor people infected with Covid have no space in their dwellings to go for isolation or get quarantined. As a responsibility towards those affected with Covid, I have converted my official residence to a covid care centre. I want to hand over the centre to you and your department to run it. I will always be ready for any further help,” the 31-year-old Yadav scion said in his letter. Yadav, who is in New Delhi, dashed out a fresh letter to the chief minister on Wednesday, saying that he had opened the Covid care centre from his funds with all facilities like oxygen cylinders, beds, medicines as well as meal facilities for patients and attendants.He also posted a video on his official Twitter handle, slamming the government for its alleged insensitivity and poor health infrastructure to handle the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic in the state. Yadav also rued the fact that the chief minister had not responded to his letters wherein suggestions were made to tone up the health system and contain the spread of the deadly virus, especially in rural areas. On Tuesday, the opposition leader had written to the CM seeking his permission to visit hospitals and primary health centres and make field visits to assess the various initiatives that were being taken by his party to provide beds, oxygen cylinders to Covid-19 patients.Yadav said he had written a letter to health minister Mangal Pandey to take over the covid care centre for its smooth operation so that those patients who could not get beds could be admitted there.The ruling JD(U) and BJP were quick to dub Yadav’s move as “drama”.“Tejashwi is enjoying luxury in New Delhi during this period of Covid. It is his old habit to run away whenever there is a crisis in Bihar. At a time when the state has made all arrangements to handle the pandemic, he is seeking permission to come to Bihar. By whose permission did he go to New Delhi that he is seeking permission to come back?” said Nikhil Anand, state BJP spokesperson. Anand said Yadav is afraid of the growing popularity of former MP Pappu Yadav and now wants to come back to save his so-called Muslim-Yadav politics.Senior JD(U) leader and MLC Neeraj Kumar called Yadav’s move a political stunt to mislead people. “Tejashwi should tell first whether he would reside at his official residence to boost the morale of the covid patients? Opening a covid care centre at the official residence is only an eyewash. The intentions are not clear,” he said.“It is hilarious that Tejashwi has opened a covid care centre at his official residence and wants the government to run it. What does he want to prove? Tejashwi has all resources and there are doctors in his family. They can easily run a covid centre at their residence. This is all big drama,” said Suheli Mehta, JD(U) spokesperson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/tejashwi-yadav-converts-his-govt-residence-into-covid-care-centre-ruling-parties-call-it-drama-101621448495616.html
19-05-2021||Mumbai||‘Will permit door-to-door vaccination if Centre doesn’t’: Bombay HC tells Maharashtra||The Bombay High Court has directed the state government and the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) not to wait for the central government’s permission to conduct door-to-door Covid-19 vaccination for the elderly and disabled persons who cannot go out to get themselves inoculated, HT has learnt. “They (expert committee members) are all academic experts but they seem to have zero knowledge about the ground reality. If this decision is taken from Delhi, you should think about the local situation... If the corporation wants to start door-to-door vaccination. If the centre does not permit it, we will. Saving lives is more important,” said the bench.The HC, while rapping the Centre for consulting experts who did not recommend the door-to-door vaccination initiative, said that the experts were probably unaware of ground realities wherein people live in such houses where even a stretcher cannot be manoeuvred. The court has asked the state and the BMC to file an affidavit on how it proposes to conduct the door-to-door vaccination by Thursday. The division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni, while hearing the public interest litigation filed by advocates Dhruti Kapadia and Kunal Tiwari, was informed that the Centre was to respond to the court’s direction in an earlier hearing on May 12 on whether the door-to-door vaccination could be implemented. The PIL sought directions to the Centre, the state government and the BMC to provide door-to-door vaccination for people ageing over 75 years, the specially-abled and the bed-ridden. Kapadia further added that the BMC had failed to devise a formula to identify beggars without photo IDs required for vaccination and that helpline numbers should be provided to enable senior citizens to book an appointment for a home visit for vaccination stating that all citizens cannot access the online platform.Additional solicitor general Anil Singh for the Union of India informed the court that the direction was referred to the committee of experts and they had filed a response stating that as there were post-vaccination protocols to be observed and the same could not be facilitated at individual homes, door-to-door vaccination could not be permitted. He, however, added that transport arrangements could be made to take elderly citizens to the centres. However, Kapadia submitted that some of the elderly and disabled persons lived in extremely difficult conditions and if they had to go to centres they would have to be taken on wheelchairs or stretchers. However, due to the constrained spaces they lived in, it was not possible to take such people to the centres. Thus, in light of the committee’s denial, such persons would not be able to get vaccinated at all. After hearing the submissions, the court expressed dissatisfaction at the expert committee’s recommendations, termed it to be the opposite of door-to-door vaccination and said, “I am not aware of Mumbai, but in North Kolkata, there are buildings wherein even stretchers cannot be taken inside. If somebody is bedridden and there is no room for a stretcher to manoeuvre, how will you bring them outside for vaccination?” Justice Kulkarni then pointed out that there are old buildings in congested areas with wooden staircases even in Mumbai and elderly citizens and specially-abled persons living there may not be able to come out. The bench then directed the BMC Commissioner to apprise it as to whether the civic body could introduce door-to-door vaccination under proper medical care and upon the consent of citizens/beneficiaries to be administered being well aware of the consequences. HC will hear the PIL next on May 20.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/will-permit-door-to-door-vaccination-if-centre-doesn-t-bombay-hc-tells-maharashtra-101621448015397.html
19-05-2021||Noida||25-year-old woman ends life in Noida||Noida: A 25-year-old woman, who was pursuing doctor of medicine (MD) from a private university in Greater Noida, allegedly took her own life in her house under Sector 24 police jurisdiction.The incident came to light on late Tuesday evening when the woman’s brother found her body in a room on the first floor of the house, police said.“The family then informed us and a team was rushed to the spot. The woman had shot herself with her father’s licensed revolver. A suicide note was recovered from the spot,” said Rajneesh Verma, assistant commissioner of police, zone 1.Police officials said that nothing incriminating was found in the three-page suicide note. There were stanzas of a poem and information related to donation of her body following her death, the officials said.“The family did not hear the shot and they claimed that everything was fine with her. We are waiting for her phone records to get more information. A probe in the case is underway,” said the ACP.Noida does not have a dedicated helpline to deal with such situations. A few major suicide prevention helplines are 011-23389090 from Sumaitri (Delhi-based) and 044-24640050 from Sneha Foundation (Chennai-based).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/25yearold-woman-ends-life-in-noida-101621447894902.html
19-05-2021||Noida||Three security guards killed in accident on Noida expressway||Noida: Three security guards, on their way to work, were killed after being hit by a speeding car on the Noida-Greater Noida expressway on Tuesday. According to police, the three men on foot were trying to cross the expressway near Sector 125 when the accident took place. They worked as guards at a private company in Sector 125, police said.The deceased were identified as Ompal (55), Jagannath (51) and Krishanpal (38), all residents of Sadarpur Colony in Sector 45. They were rushed to the nearby hospital where Ompal was declared brought dead, while the other two were referred to a higher centre in Delhi. They both died on Tuesday night while undergoing treatment, said police.“They were hit by a speeding Eeco van. It appears that the driver tried to apply brake but the sudden action caused the vehicle to flip over after it hit the three men,” said Azad Singh Tomar, station house officer, Sector 39 police station.Police officials said that the driver fled from the spot leaving his vehicle. The vehicle was seized and it has been traced to a Delhi resident, the officials said, adding that efforts are on to nab the suspect.Based on a complaint from Ompal’s family, a case has been registered at Sector 39 police station against the unidentified driver under sections 279 (rash driving) and 304A (causing death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code.The bodies were handed over to the families following an autopsy, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/three-security-guards-killed-in-accident-on-noida-expressway-101621447835699.html
19-05-2021||Noida||Tauktae’s effect: Mercury falls 14°C below normal in Noida||Noida: The maximum temperature in Noida fell 14 degrees below normal on Wednesday, weather analysts said, as the remnants of cyclone Tauktae, which is passing over Delhi-NCR, brought heavy rain to the city. As a result, the air quality of Noida and its adjoining areas improved considerably on Wednesday, as per the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). The India Meteorological Department (IMD) officials said that the rainfall is likely to continue on Thursday.The maximum temperature in Noida on Wednesday was 23.6 degrees Celsius -- 14 degrees below normal-- and the minimum was 21.6 degrees Celsius, against a maximum and minimum reading of 30.6 degrees Celsius and 27.8 degrees Celsius on Tuesday. The data showed that the maximum temperature on Wednesday was down by seven degrees Celsius from Tuesday and by 14 degrees from Monday. At the Safdarjung monitoring station, the maximum temperature was 23.8 degrees Celsius – 16 degrees Celsius lower than the season’s average – and the minimum was 21.4 degrees Celsius, four degrees below the season’s average.The city saw an average rainfall of one millimetre till 8.30am on Wednesday. Data for the rest of the day for Noida is yet to be ascertained, experts said. Meanwhile, the average rainfall measured at the Safdarjung monitoring station in Delhi, considered an average for the National Capital Region, was 31.3mm between 8.30am and 5.30pm.According to the IMD, the mercury is expected to rise on Thursday, while a drizzle is likely to continue till the morning hours of Thursday. However, the skies will remain cloudy.“The heavy rainfall on Wednesday was the remnants of cyclone Tauktae, which after it subsided, formed low pressure spots, and induced a cyclonic circulation over north-east Rajasthan and southern Haryana. Thursday will see light rain in the morning hours but the mercury will hover around 30 degrees Celsius,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre, IMD.Meanwhile, the air quality of Noida, Greater Noida and Ghaziabad improved to the ‘satisfactory’ category.According to the CPCB, the air quality index (AQI) of Noida on Wednesday, on a scale of 0 to 500, was 78 against 108 a day earlier. The AQI of Greater Noida was 72 against 79 a day earlier. Ghaziabad recorded an AQI of 73 on Wednesday against 122 a day earlier. An AQI level up to zero to 50 is considered ‘good’, 50 to 100 is considered ‘satisfactory’, between 101 and 200 is ‘moderate’, between 201 and 300 is ‘poor’, between 301 and 400 is ‘very poor’ and above 400 is considered ‘severe’.According to the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), the air quality is likely to marginally improve. “Surface winds are east-north-easterly and high. Widespread rainfall is likely for Wednesday and aerosol washout is expected. Overall AQI is forecasted to marginally improve and stay in the low end of ‘satisfactory’ to ‘good’ for Thursday and ‘satisfactory’ to ‘moderate’ on May 21 and 22,” said a SAFAR statement on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/tauktaes-effect-mercury-falls-14-c-below-normal-in-noida-101621447835013.html
19-05-2021||Noida||Noida to take stern action against quacks, rumour mongers||NOIDA: The Gautam Budh Nagar administration has directed the health department to take stern action against self-styled doctors, also known as “quacks”, in rural areas, who are allegedly duping gullible villagers at a time when the second wave of Covid-19 is wreaking havoc in many rural areas. The administration has also decided to book rumour mongers misleading people by spreading fake information through social media networks. The matter came to light on Tuesday when a 65-year-old man was found allegedly spreading false information about lack of treatment in Gopalgarh village under Jewar block in Greater Noida. Based on reports by the sub-divisional magistrate, who is also the Covid-19 incident commander of the area, the police have lodged a complaint against the man, who they said is the husband of a former pradhan of the village.District magistrate, Suhas LY, said that he had asked the chief medical officer (CMO) to launch a crackdown against quacks in the district under provisions of the Drugs and Magical Remedies (Objectionable Advertisements) Act, 1954. “Only enforcement of law can stop their activities. He has also been asked to hold awareness drives in villages. We’ve also received information that these quacks are turning villagers against vaccination, which would increase the immunity level among the people and subsequently hit their business,” he said. In the Gopalgarh incident, the DM said that the suspect allegedly said that a man had been receiving treatment from a quack under a neem tree in Greater Noida on May 14. “The incident commander in her probe found that the patient had undergone a rapid antigen testing and was provided an oxygen cylinder on May 14. He was also referred for treatment at the local health centre. The suspect said that despite that, the patient continued to take treatment by an unqualified doctor in that area. This is an attempt to taint the image of the government while spreading incorrect information,” he said, and added that the antigen report of that date states that the patient has tested negative for Covid-19. IF HE TESTED NEGATIVE THEN HOW WAS CYLINDER PROVIDED TO HIM??Dr Deepak Ohri, the CMO, said he has asked officials to launch a crackdown against such fake doctors in their respective areas. “Raiding teams have been formed on a large scale to take necessary action against such quacks and have also been asked to take the help of the concerned police station. They have also been told to issue legal notices to such quacks,” he said.District commissioner of police, Alok Singh, said that as per the provisions made under the Pandemic Act, the police will take adequate action against such persons. “The in-charge of Jewar primary health centre filed a complaint with the local police on Tuesday. An FIR will be filed against the suspect and under IPC sections 188, 269 and 270, and under sections of the Epidemic Diseases Act,” he said.When contacted, Dhirendra Singh, the BJP MLA from Jewar assembly constituency, said: “I am keeping a close tab on the testing and vaccination in my area and I appreciate the efforts being undertaken by the district administration,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-to-take-stern-action-against-quacks-rumour-mongers-101621447534812.html
19-05-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai’s once infamous underworld den to be replaced by skyscrapers||Dagdi Chawl, the once infamous den of underworld don Arun Gawli in Mumbai is all set to be redeveloped. Ten chawls in this compound at Agripada in south-central Mumbai and owned by Gawli will be replaced by multi-storey towers, HT has learnt.Geeta Gawli, the corporator and daughter of Arun Gawli confirmed the development. “We have approximately 350 tenants in our chawls and they will get houses of 450 square feet area,” said Geeta. “We are at the planning stage and we have finalised a local builder to undertake this redevelopment,” she said.The redevelopment will take place mostly under the cluster redevelopment scheme.Arun Gawli ruled the underworld from Dagdi chawl and held regular darbars for the people. People would dread coming to Dagdi chawl due to its ill-reputation. It was also often in news due to police raids in the mid-nineties after the Mumbai Police decided to take the underworld head-on.Currently, the Gawli family, which lives in the redeveloped building on the 4th floor, will also be part of this project. The ground floor houses the office of the Akhil Bhartiya Sena (ABS) which was founded by Gawli.The Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority (MHADA) has given the initial sanction for the project. “We have given the Letter of Intent (LOI) for the redevelopment of Dagdi Chawl,” said MHADA Chairman (Repair Board) Vinod Ghosalkar. This was issued after the residents of Dagdi chawl gave their consent to the revamp process.The chawl is a virtual fortress and no one is allowed inside without the mandatory checks by Gawli’s men. After 1987, when gang wars erupted in the city, Gawli and his men remained confined to these chawls. Most tenants were supporters of Gawli. In fact, police officials point that the gang members constructed tunnels, holes and cavities in their houses as their hideouts.Gawli also had a stint in politics when he formed the ABD and contested assembly as well as municipal elections. He was elected an MLA in 1999. His daughter is a corporator of the city’s civic body the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). The Saat Rasta-Byculla area around Dagdi Chawl has seen vertical development in the past two decades with several old buildings making way for skyscrapers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbais-once-infamous-underworld-den-to-be-replaced-by-skyscrapers-101621445015288.html
19-05-2021||Other||Five die of black fungus in Haryana’s Sirsa||Five people have died due to black fungus in Sirsa district, officials said on Wednesday.“Mucormycosis or black fungus, which is primarily affecting people recovering from Covid-19, has claimed five lives in district in the last two days,” Sirsa chief medical officer (CMO) Manish Bansal said. He said 25 people from districts adjoining Sirsa were admitted to a hospital, of whom some were referred to other major health facilities.Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar said the infection has become a matter of concern and directed officials to make necessary arrangements for its treatment. He directed that all medical colleges, including PGIMS, Rohtak, be notified for treatment of the disease.PGIMS, Rohtak has been authorised to treat patients coming from Rohtak, Jind, Mahendergarh and Charkhi Dadri, who are suffering from black fungus.Shaheed Hasan Khan Mewati Government Medical College, Nalhar, Nuh has been authorised to treat patients from Hathin sub-division, Palwal and Gurugram. Bhagat Phool Singh Medical College at Khanpur Kalan in Gohana, Sonepat has been authorised to treat patients from Panipat and Sonepat.For patients coming from Hisar, Sirsa, Fatehabad and Bhiwani, Maharaja Agrasen Medical College, Agroha, Hisar has been authorised and Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College, Karnal has been authorised for patients from Karnal, Kaithal, Kurukshetra and Yamunanagar.FIVE MORE CASES DETECTED IN KARNALFive more cases of black fungus have been reported at Karnal’s Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College and Hospital on Wednesday taking the total number of infected persons in district to seven.As per district health department data, the new patients include a 68-year-old woman of Rajiv Colony in Karnal who was also Covid positive and had died on Tuesday; a 70-year-old woman of Arjun Gate; a 54-year-old woman of Ravidaspur locality in Karnal; a 62-year-old man of Sangohi village; and a 70-year-old man of Assandh.The doctors said that they were admitted in Covid hospital and were found to be infected with black fungus during screening of Covid patients.Meanwhile, on Wednesday, a separate ward with capacity of 20 beds has been set up for patients of mucormycosis or black fungus at the Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College.As per district health department, the hospital will admit patients with black fungus from Karnal, Kaithal, Kurukshetra and Yamunanagar districts.KCGMCH director Dr Jagdish Dureja said the hospital will provide all facilities and treatment for black fungus patients. He said people need not panic as the disease is curable.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/five-die-of-black-fungus-in-haryana-s-sirsa-101621444595124.html
19-05-2021||Chandigarh||2.28 lakh new Covid cases, 2.52 lakh recoveries in Haryana in May||Twenty-two patients in Karnal district battling with Covid-19 were among the 153 fatalities recorded in Haryana on Wednesday, pushing the fatality rate to 0.99% and death toll to 7,076, according to the health bulletin.The caseload of daily fresh cases continued registering improvement as 6,818 new cases were recorded despite 69,780 samples taken in last 24 hours across state.The positivity rate on Wednesday was 11.27% and the cumulative positivity rate 8.50%.Another bright spot of the fight against the virus was more people recovering from the infection than the fresh cases as on Wednesday 11,821 people recovering against 6,818 new cases.On Tuesday, Haryana recorded 7,774 fresh cases, 124 fatalities and 14,897 recoveries.This month, total recoveries have outnumbered the new cases. For instance, in last 19 days, the state recorded 2,28,529 new cases and 2,52,473 recoveries.The recovery began outnumbering new cases significantly in the past one week. The recovery rate has risen to 89.14% from 79.14% on April 30 and 78.70% on May 1.Fatalities took place in every district on Wednesday with Karnal recording 22 deaths, Gurugram 15, Hisar 14, Panipat 10, Faridabad and Ambala nine each, Bhiwani eight, Rohtak, Jind and Kaithal seven each, Sonepat and Yamunanagar six each, Rewari and Fatehabad five each, Panchkula and Sirsa four each, Kurukshetra, Jhajjar and Nuh three each, Mahendergarh, Palwal and Charkhi Dadri two each.The active cases till Wednesday stood at 70,758 while positive cases in home isolation came down to 63,052.Among the fresh cases Gurugram recorded 1,161 cases, Faridabad 435, Sonepat 492, Hisar 565, Ambala 199, Karnal 270, Panipat 407, Rohtak 326, Rewari 283, Panchkula 378, Kurukshetra 145, Yamunanagar 278, Sirsa 249, Mahendergarh 375, Bhiwani 115, Jhajjar 274, Palwal 153, Fatehabad 227, Kaithal 82, Jind 238, Nuh 46 and Charkhi Dadri 120.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/228-lakh-new-covid-cases-2-52-lakh-recoveries-in-haryana-in-may-101621444426488.html
19-05-2021||Other||Screening in Haryana villages on war footing||With Covid-19 spreading roots in rural areas of Haryana, screening of all families living in rural areas of Haryana is on war footing as around 8,000 school teachers, anganwadi workers, asha workers and health department officials have been assigned the task to trace infected persons from every village.Figures of the Haryana health department show that screening of all villages have helped trace 1,511 positive cases, 24,084 people were found to have influenza-like illness or ILI, and 16,787 have been reported at village isolation centres.Between May 15 and 18, screening of around 21.6 lakh people was done in 3,011 villages. Total 486 villages have been screened in Ambala district, followed by 373 in Kurukshetra, 341 in Palwal, 260 in Fatehabab, 256 in Jhajjar.Officials visited every household and screened all members of every family by recording their body temperature, SpO2 level, BP, previous medical history, co-morbidity and Covid-like symptoms including cough, cold and fever.In case any person is found with Covid symptoms, they inform the health department and such people are isolated immediately and taken for Covid test.“Screening of all villagers is a huge task and we have to do it to trace the infected persons to protect entire families from getting infected,” said asha worker Rani Devi, of Karnal district.These village-level teams are also concerned about their own safety as they have to meet all people including those who have symptoms to get their details.“The work is risky as most people in villages hesitate to reveal if they have any symptoms. But as per government guidelines, we take proper care to protect ourselves and our families from the infection,” said an anganwadi worker, requesting anonymity.Kurukshetra chief medical officer Sant Lal Verma said these officials have been asked to follow Covid protocol strictly and have been provided all required facilities for their protection.Ground level officials said the number of positive cases traced in screening is low but this will help cut spread of the infection. In screening of 21.60 lakh people in rural areas, so far, only 1,511 have been tested positive and the highest 335 were reported from Karnal, followed by 239 in Rohtak, 141 in Sonepat, and 104 in Panchkula.Haryana health minister Anil Vij told HT that screening in villages is going on war footing and every necessary step is being taken to curb spread of the virus in rural areas.As per health department officials, the number of positive cases from this screening is poor, but screening in villages was necessitated as Covid cases were reported in many villages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/screening-in-haryana-villages-on-war-footing-101621444354987.html
19-05-2021||Chandigarh||Exploring possibility of Sputnik V production in Haryana: Dushyant||Haryana deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala, during a press conference Wednesday, said that he spoke to Dr Reddy’s Laboratories to explore the possibility of Sputnik V vaccine manufacture in Haryana.Dr Reddy’s Laboratories is in a pact with the Russian Direct Investment Fund to sell 250 million vials of Sputnik V in India. He said Union minister Nitin Gadkari has suggested that more pharma companies should be allowed to make Covid vaccine in country. “Haryana will explore if there can be tie-ups with companies like Bharat Biotech and Serum Institute of India that manufacturing vaccines in India to scale up production,” he said.‘SCALING UP TESTING IN VILLAGES’The Haryana government has stepped up testing in rural areas to check Covid spread. Dushyant said that the idea is to screen as many as people as possible after reports that despite showing symptoms people are reluctant to get checked.The JJP leader dismissed Opposition leaders’ claims that there was under-reporting of Covid deaths in rural areas. “Testing has now been scaled up. All DCs have been directed in this regard and rapid antigen testing and RT-PCR tests are being done. Testing capacity has also been increased,” he said.‘REFRAIN FROM STEPPING OUT IN VIEW OF TAUKTAE’Dushyant urged people to stay vigilant over the next 48 hours and refrain from stepping out in view of Tauktae.Dushyant said according to the MeT department, the flow of storm is moving towards Haryana via Gujarat and Rajasthan, and speed of the storm can move up to 50km/hr in most districts of Haryana from Wednesday afternoon to Thursday evening.DCs of all districts have been instructed to conduct regular monitoring. Instructions have been given to make arrangements in order to ensure that there is no loss of life and property.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/exploring-possibility-of-sputnik-v-production-in-haryana-dushyant-101621444234884.html
19-05-2021||Other||Fighting Covid: Haryana yet to improve health infrastructure in rural areas||To combat the spread of Covid-19 in villages, the Centre has directed all states to set up three-tier health infrastructure, including makeshift 30-bed Covid care centres (each equipped with at least two oxygen cylinders), primary health care centres (PHCs), community health centres (CHCs), and sub-district hospitals.These directions are yet to be implemented across health centres in Haryana.The state government has set up 46 isolation centres in villages of Rohtak, 35 in Rewari, 47 in Dadri and over 80 in Hisar but no villager got admitted at these isolation centres.Many CHCs and PHCs are not admitting patients as they don’t have oxygen beds.Sanjay Dangi, of Madina village in Rohtak, said over three dozen unreported deaths have been witnessed in the village since April 24 and the village community health centre has no oxygen bed facility.“These deaths occurred due to lack of facilities at the government community health centre. People are reluctant to appear for testing as local CHC lacks basic facilities. Many villagers are running fever but are reluctant to shift to isolation centres set up by the state government as it has no doctor, nurse or medicines,” he added.People from chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar’s native village, Nindana in Rohtak, have not visited isolation centres and are reluctant to appear for testing.Balbir Sihag, acting president of Sisai municipal committee in Hisar, said the village CHC lacks basic facilities and has no oxygen bed.“More than 40% sanctioned posts are lying vacant. People are reluctant to appear for testing due to shortage of beds in government hospitals,” he added.Isolation centres have been set up by government in schools, community halls, marriage halls and panchayat buildings where beds, two oximetres and a medical kit are available.Dr Joginder, senior medical officer at Madina CHC, said they have 10 beds and 15 gas cylinders.“If any patient’s oxygen level drops to 84, we are referring them to civil hospitals. These cylinders we have are not enough to admit many patients. We have admitted four Covid patients so far. We don’t have oxygen beds and other CHCs are facing similar issues,” he added.Jhajjar civil surgeon Dr Sanjay Dahiya said they have been focusing more on CHCs to improve rural heath facilities.“We have provided oxygen facility at CHCs but oxygen beds are less than 25. If any patient’s saturation level decreases, we shift them to civil hospitals as we have more professional staff and facilities there. We are treating mild symptom patients at CHCs and working on improving facilities at CHCs and PHCs to fight against the virus,” he added. He said that they are providing medicines and equipment at isolation centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/fighting-covid-haryana-yet-to-improve-health-infrastructure-in-rural-areas-101621444114902.html
19-05-2021||Other||Police face farmers’ wrath in Haryana’s Hisar||A day after residents of Masudpur village in Hisar decided to ‘boycott’ the corona lockdown alleging that it has been imposed to suppress the farm agitation, two more villages Datta and Danoda (Jind) passed similar resolutions on Wednesday.Datta residents also did not allow a police flag march to pass through the village, following which the cops had to take a detour.The villagers held a meeting led by sarpanch Vinod Kumar and passed a resolution to boycott Covid lockdown, testing and vaccination drive. They demanded shifting of Covid centre out of the village.The villagers condemned the lathi charge on farmers in Hisar. The villagers said a group of youths will impose ‘Thikhri pahra’ to stop the entry of government employees in the village. The BJP-JJP leaders’ entry will be prohibited in the village.The residents alleged that the police gypsy lands in their village and cops harass them by issuing lockdown violation challans every day.Dr Ajit Bishnoi, medical officer at Datta public health centre, said that they had shifted their equipment from the Covid centre.“We have apprised the senior authorities about the decision. If any person comes to PHC, we will collect their samples and the vaccination process will be continued at the PHC. We urge people to take precautions to protect themselves from Covid. There are 12 active Covid cases in the village and one person has succumbed to the virus,” he added.Sadar Hansi SHO Sukhdev Singh said police carried out a flag march to alert the villagers and convince them to follow government orders.“We are not harassing the villagers. They are asking them to wear masks and following Covid guidelines,” the SHO added.Hansi SDM Jitendra Ahlawat said, “We will take strict action against those who try to defy government orders.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/police-face-farmers-wrath-in-haryana-s-hisar-101621443995388.html
19-05-2021||Pune||Pune district reports 4,490 positive cases, 52 deaths in 24 hrs||PUNE: Pune district on Wednesday reported 4,490 fresh Covid-19 cases and 52 deaths in 24 hours, as reported by the state health department. The district has reported 984,876 progressive cases, of which 906,988 have recovered. The death toll stands at 10,593 and 67,295 is the active number of cases. As per the state health department, Pune rural reported 2,551 new cases taking the total of 271,110. With 25 deaths on Wednesday, the death toll went up to 2,859. Pune city reported 1,223 new Covid-19 cases, which takes the final count to 476,129. And 24 deaths were reported on Wednesday which puts the death toll at 6,128. PCMC reported 716 new cases. With 3 deaths reported on Wednesday, the toll went up to 1,548. Pune district also saw higher vaccination beneficiaries on Wednesday with 10,681 receive the vaccine on Wednesday. Pune city saw only 935 beneficiaries, while Pune rural saw 3,877 beneficiaries, and PCMC saw the highest number of 5,869 beneficiaries get the jab. Of the 10,681 beneficiaries, 6,641 are Covishield and 4,040 are Covaxin doses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-reports-4-490-positive-cases-52-deaths-in-24-hrs-101621441834103.html
19-05-2021||Jaipur||Black fungus notified as epidemic in Rajasthan||With the increase in cases of mucormycosis, also known as black fungus, in Covid-19 patients, the Rajasthan government on Wednesday issued an order to include the debilitating illness as a notifiable illness.The state government on Wednesday declared mucormycosis (black fungus) as an epidemic that is occurring in patients recovering from Covid19 infection. The health department issued a notification on Wednesday.The notification states a continuous increase in the number of patients with black fungus due to the effect of Covid-19 infection, black fungus has emerged as a side effect of Covid-19. This step has been taken in view of integrated and coordinated treatment.Mucormycosis (black fungus) is notified as an epidemic and notifiable disease in the entire state under the sections of Rajasthan Epidemic Act 2020.On the other hand, the availability of oxygen beds in several parts of Rajasthan has increased for the first time during the second Covid-19 wave in the state, albeit ICU (intensive care unit) beds with ventilators remain scarce at hospitals, officials said.The improvement comes as a result of the steep decline in daily Covid-19 cases in the state, the officials said.According to the health department data, daily Covid-19 cases, which were hovering around 18,000 about a week ago, came down to 8,398 on Tuesday.Health secretary Siddharth Mahajan said that in the past few days, the doubling time of Covid-19 cases in the state has increased from 21 days to 40 days. The recovery rate is at 80 per cent, which has eased the load on many hospitals, he said.In Jaipur, which has been persistently logging the highest number of cases in the state, 627 oxygen beds were vacant as of Wednesday, as per the government portal that tracks the real-time availability of the beds. A week ago, the city had only 95 beds available to cater to fresh Covid-19 patients.This has come as a major respite to the doctors who struggled to accommodate the increasing number of patients in already overwhelmed health infrastructure. There is, however, a dearth of ICU beds with ventilators in Jaipur. There are 849 such beds in Jaipur of which 831 were occupied by Wednesday, leaving only 18 available for fresh patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/black-fungus-notified-as-epidemic-in-rajasthan-101621441294656.html
19-05-2021||Pune||Pune teenager's 'clearest image of moon' goes viral on social media||A teenager from Pune gained popularity on social media by capturing one of the clearest pictures of the moon.Prathamesh Jaju, a 16-year-old boy from Pune, shot around 50,000 pictures and stitched them together to get the clearest and sharpest image of the moon. It took him around 40 hours to process the images and videos.Speaking to ANI, Jaju said, "I captured the image on May 3 at 1 am. I captured for around four hours with videos and images. It took 38-40 hours for processing. The reason behind 50,000 pictures was to get the clearest picture of the moon. I stitched them together and sharpened the image to see crisp details of the moon. The raw data was 100 GB and after processing it, the data turned bigger so it was around 186 GB. When I stitched them together, the final file was around 600 MB."Asked about how he got the idea to do such a thing, the teenager said, "I read some articles and saw some YouTube videos to learn how to capture these images. I learned the processing."A post shared by Prathamesh Jaju (@prathameshjaju)Jaju is a student of Class 10 in Vidya Bhavan School, Pune. His father runs a computer sales and repairing business while his mother is a housewife. Besides photography, Jaju likes athletics. He even participated in one national competition in athletics. He is also very active on social media and has more than 26,500 followers on Instagram.Sharing about his future aspirations, the teenager said, "I want to become an astrophysicist and study astronomy professionally but astrophotography is just a hobby for me right now."Jaju shared his images of the moon on social media platforms like Instagram that have over 11,000 likes."This image is an HDR Composite of two different images made to give it a three-dimensional effect. This is my most detailed and clearest shot of the third quarter Mineral Moon," he said."Our eyes cannot resolute the colours of the minerals on the moon. The blue tones reveal areas rich in ilmenite which contains iron, titanium and oxygen. While the orange and purple colours show regions relatively poor in titanium and iron. The white/grey tomes refer to areas of greater exposure to sunlight," Jaju wrote on social media while describing his captured image of the moon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-teenager-s-clearest-image-of-moon-goes-viral-on-social-media-101621434409867.html
19-05-2021||Lucknow||UP govt follows strict screening in villages to contain Covid-19, over 1 lakh tests done daily||The coronavirus disease (Covid-19), in its third phase, has reached the rural and most vulnerable areas of the country — areas with limited healthcare infrastructure required to combat the disease. Amid the surge in the cases in villages, the monitoring committee of Uttar Pradesh government is strictly screening villages following the 'test, trace and treat' rule.The committee is conducting more than 100,000 tests daily for the identification of the suspected cases through the Rapid Response Teams (RRTs). Civil society group representatives like Asha, Anganwadi and ANM are part of the monitoring committee. There are more than 400,000 lakh members of 60,589 committees deployed to battle against the virus in the rural areas.Also read: How are celebrities, politicians procuring Covid-19 drugs? asks Bombay HCThe state government is using a participatory approach where people on the ground level are used for the maximum control of the spread. These members are given oximeters and infrared thermometers to identify the symptoms and post-detection of suspected cases they inform the RRTs.Out of the total 2.99 lakh samples tested for coronavirus on Wednesday, more than 2.19 lakh were tested in the rural areas of the state. Uttar Pradesh chief minister launched the mass Covid screening campaign on May 5 and since then the monitoring committee members have visited 79,512 villages. More than 28,000 villages reported cases of the deadly virus.As much as 68 per cent of the villages in the state are Covid-free due to these efforts undertaken to contain the spread, as per the government.Also read: Yogi govt hits back after Cong points out discrepancy in UP’s Covid-19 numbersBesides this, the Uttar Pradesh government has initiated a special sanitation campaign in the villages for the prevention of the spread. It is known to be the first state to kick start a sanitation drive at such a large scale. Furthermore, the monitoring committee members are on an awareness drive to educate the people about the virus and the significance of washing hands and maintaining social distancing.The members also keep track of all the people entering villages for testing and tracing. Medical kits are also distributed to patients in home isolation and for cases who can't afford quarantine, the committees are facilitating quarantine in schools, community centres and health centres in villages.Also read| UP CM Yogi Adityanath's approach to battle second wave of Covid-19: Key pointsThis comes after the Allahabad High Court earlier this week said that the medical centres in the villages of the state are at God's mercy or as it said verbatim 'Ram Bharose'.Uttar Pradesh on Wednesday reported 7,336 new Covid-19 cases, lowest since April 30 and 282 deaths in the last 24 hours, reported PTI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-govt-follows-strict-screening-in-villages-to-contain-covid-19-over-1-lakh-tests-done-daily-101621431016865.html
19-05-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana deputy CM says cyclone Tauktae approaching state, urges people to stay indoors for next 48 hrs||Haryana Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala on Wednesday alerted the people of his state regarding the storm "Tauktae", saying it is headed towards the state. He urged the people to stay vigilant during the next 48 hours and not step out of their homes for their safety, an official statement said here.According to the Meteorological Department, the flow of the storm is moving towards Haryana through Gujarat, Rajasthan and its speed can move up to 50 kilometers per hour in most districts of the state from Wednesday to Thursday evening.All Deputy Commissioners have been instructed to conduct regular monitoring, Chautala said.Instructions have been given to make arrangements in order to ensure that there is no loss of life and property in any district, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-deputy-cm-says-cyclone-tauktae-approaching-state-urges-people-to-stay-indoors-for-next-48-hrs-101621438392959.html
19-05-2021||Bhopal||MP minister faces Cong ire after driver named in Remdevisir black marketing racket||Madhya Pradesh water resources minister Tulsi Silawat found himself at the centre of a political storm on Wednesday after a driver working at his Indore residence was named by an accused arrested for allegedly selling Remdevisir vials at a premium.Punit Agrawal, a driver working with Indore’s health official Poornima Garadiya, was arrested on Monday for selling Remdevisir vials in the black market to Covid-19 patients. Punit Agrawal told reporters that he bought two vials for ₹14,000 from Govind Rajput, a driver in Silawat’s household, at the request of a local police officer.The Congress alleged the minister was also involved and demanded a high-level probe. Tulsi Silawat, who represents Indore’s Sanwer seat in the MP assembly, said he had no connection with the activities of the driver, who he had hired via a local travel agency a few months ago to help out at home.“I don’t know about his activities, but a fair probe should be conducted in the matter,” Tulsi Silawat said.Indore superintendent of police (east) Ashutosh Bagri said Punit Agrawal was caught red-handed by the police when he was selling Remdesivir vials worth about ₹4,000 for ₹15,000. Bagri said Agrawal told the police during interrogation that Govind Rajput, a driver in the minister’s household, had given him the two vials that he was caught with.The two drivers, Govind Rajput and Punit Agrawal, worked for the same travel agency which supplies drivers and cars to government offices.Bagri suggested that the police were yet to conclude that Govind Rajput was involved.“We are investigating the matter as there are chances that Agrawal is trying to misguide us by taking the name of a person associated with the minister. We are trying to detain Rajput and also collecting evidence,” Ashutosh Bagri said.A constable and a home guard jawan, who were assigned to ferry Punit Agrawal when he spoke to the media, have been shunted out to the district police lines.Congress leaders said the policemen were penalised because Punit Agrawal’s statement had embarrassed the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party.Asked for his response, Bagri said they were transferred to the district police lines “for negligence in their duty as they compromised the security of an accused”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/mp-minister-faces-cong-ire-after-driver-named-in-remdevisir-black-marketing-racket-101621438654123.html
19-05-2021||Ranchi||NRIs come together to fund rural Covid-19 care centre in Barhi||As spiraling cases of coronavirus infection in rural Jharkhand have put government officials on tenterhooks due to immense shortage of health infrastructure, a group of people hailing from Bihar and Jharkhand and settled in Australia extended financial help in setting up a Covid-19 care centre with 20 oxygen supported beds at Barhi subdivisional hospital. Before this, there were merely 10 beds at the subdivisional hospital that were not enough to accommodate the increasing number of Covid-19 patients in the area, officials said. However, to deal with the crisis, an administrative officer took up the initiative of setting up a Covid-19 centre within a week with financial help from the non resident Indians. “Amid soaring cases, the number of patients in the hospital recently rose to 26. The new Covid care centre has provided great relief. Timely help from people of Bihar and Jharkhand living in Sydney saved many lives here,” said Arvind Devashish Toppo, circle officer of Barhi, whose initiative helped set up the centre. The centre was established at the existing subdivisional hospital by minor modification in design. Now, there were a total of 30 oxygen-equipped beds at the hospital. The Sydney group, named Bihar-Jharkhand Community Australia (BJCA), donated nearly ₹1.80 lakh for arranging infrastructure required for the Covid-19 centre, said the circle officer. On being asked how he got to know about the BJCA, Toppo said one of his batch mates informed him about the group while he was looking for medical help for a friend’s mother. “One of my batch mates, Ashwini Kumar, who is an administrative officer in Bihar, told me about the BJCA, that has provided help in many places of Bihar. This group was in touch with Ashwini, and later its members Praveen Kumar and Manish Kumar from Australia ringed me and offered to help,” Toppo said.Several rounds of virtual meetings ensued before the centre was set up in Barhi. “I communicated the plan to subdivisional officer (SDO) Kumar Tarachand and he readily agreed on the proposal,” Toppo said. “We bought cots, mattress and other medical equipment for the centre with the fund provided by the BJCA. The centre was made operational on May 10 and around 20 Covid patients have been discharged from the centre in past nine days. Currently, there around seven patients undergoing treatment at the centre,” he said. The BJCA also wanted to extend help in other parts of the state. “We are planning a similar kind of facility in tribal areas in Khunti or Godda. A plan will soon be outlined in this regard,” Toppo said. People of Jharkhand who have settled abroad, mainly in the United States of America, are also extending helping hands to fight the Covid-19 pandemic. Jharkhand Civil Society member RP Sahi said one Harjit Singh and Gurdeep Ahluwalia, who live in the USA, have provided medical equipment, including oxygen concentrators, to some institutions and hospitals in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/nris-come-together-to-fund-rural-covid-19-care-centre-in-barhi-101621437993547.html
19-05-2021||Other||Alumni goes beyond Sainik School in its Covid outreach||RanchiThe alumni association of Jharkhand’s Sainik School Tilaiya has launched a round-the-clock war room to provide help to former students and their families across the country as they battle the deadly second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic.The Sainik School Tilaiyan Old Boys’ Association (SANTOBA) has spread its wings to include those affected on the campus as well as members of the public. It all began a few days ago when news of death of two teachers at school – Mr Sanjay Singh and Mr K C Panda – came in. SANTOBA quickly assessed the situation and set up a virtual war room and volunteers from across the world started working to ensure that immediate help reached all sufferers, association members said. “We launched a campaign to assess the needs while a fund-raiser was also started. The effort soon started yielding results,” said SANTOBA president Ravi Kishore, a Supreme Court lawyer based in Delhi.The association got in touch with top officials of Jharkhand government, who extended prompt help and a health camp was organised on the campus.Among others, Bihar chief secretary Tripurari Sharan, former Army commander Lt Gen Gyan Bhushan, former Supreme Court judge Justice Shiva Kirti Singh, senior Uttar Pradesh IAS officer Deepak Kumar – all alumni of Sainik School Tilaiya – also extended their help to the ongoing effort.The school fraternity has lost eight former students to the pandemic, beside some family members. “We are passing through very difficult times. But we will not give up. Our school’s motto is ‘Forward Ever’ and we will live up to it,” said SANTOBA vice-president Ashish Sinha.The association, with the help of its chapters in Delhi, Patna, Mumbai, Bengaluru and elsewhere, also formed a group of doctors to extend medical advice while another group of volunteers was tasked with providing leads on availability of oxygen cylinders, medicines, ambulances and hospital beds.“The work has been continuing. We have decided not to rest,” said Amritesh Singh, SANTOBA’s secretary in Patna. The Patna team, under the leadership of CRPF commandant Munna Kumar Singh, has stepped out to provide face shields, masks and sanitiser bottles to the frontline corona warriors.The effort in Ranchi is being led by school alumnus and vice-chancellor of Amity University (Ranchi) Dr Raman K Jha. Insurance professional Shishir Sandipan is monitoring the situation in the western region while SANTOBA secretary Narendra Mohan, Sneh Priya and Braj Kishore are coordinating the effort. The helpline is manned by Surya Prakash and Satwik Raj.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/alumni-goes-beyond-sainik-school-in-its-covid-outreach-101621437933539.html
19-05-2021||Other||Dhanbad: 32 centres shut due to vaccine shortage||The recently launched third phase of the mass Covid-19 vaccination drive that covers people from 18 to 44 years of age hit a wall in Dhanbad, as 32 out of the 35 vaccination centres in the district were closed on Wednesday due to shortage of vaccine doses, officials said.“Only three centres were open for administering the first dose of the vaccine in the 18-44 group,” said Dr Vikas Rana, district nodal officer for Covid-19 vaccination.As per official records, only 500 doses in total were left as on Wednesday at the three centres--Sadar block’s Gujarati School Bank More ( 200), Al Islah School,Wasseypur (200) and Baghmara Community Health Centre (CHC) (100).Many of those who registered for the first dose were made to return from the 32 sites after the District Disaster Management issued a cancellation notice in this regard. . However, officials said the doses will be back in stock soon. “We have sent requisition to state headquarters for vaccine doses and all 32 centres will be reopened soon,” said Dr Rana.According to a senior official of health department, the district was facing vaccine crisis for last five days. Earlier on Tuesday, only 11 vaccination were open. No Covid death after 40 daysFor the first time in 40 days, Dhanbad did not record any Covid-19 death in a day till Tuesday night, officials said on Wednesday. However, as many as 241 new cases were registered during the period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/dhanbad-32-centres-shut-due-to-vaccine-shortage-101621437873458.html
19-05-2021||Other||Key blood banks in Patna face shortage||PATNAMajor blood banks in Patna are facing shortage of blood as voluntary donors are difficult to come by during the times of coronavirus. The Patna Medical College Hospital (PMCH), Nalanda Medical College Hospital (NMCH), Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Institute (IGIMS) and the Jaiprabha Model blood bank are facing acute shortage of negative blood groups. The saving grace for them, however, is that the demand for blood has gone down, as most elective surgeries have been deferred during the pandemic. Surgeries are being done only in emergency cases and delivery, say doctors. The inventory at the Jaiprabha blood bank Wednesday morning showed the stock of O-negative, A-negative and A-positive had exhausted, while there was one unit each of B-negative, AB-negative and AB-positive. “No blood of AB-negative group is available at the PMCH, while the negative blood group stock was in single-digit,” said Dr Rabindra Nath Shukla, in-charge of the PMCH blood bank. Barring having four units of O-negative, there was no stock of negative blood group available at the NMCH, said its blood bank in-charge Dr CK Narayan. No negative blood group was available at the IGIMS, while positive blood groups were available in single-digit. The 50-60 units of O+ blood group contributed to the total stock of 80 units at the blood bank. The thalassemic and HIV patients are the ones facing the problem. No blood bank is supposed to ask for replacement blood from these two categories of patients. Now, with low availability of blood, thalassemic and HIV patients, who need to be transfused blood, are facing a harrowing time. With voluntary donation camps having come to a grinding halt since the onset of the second wave of the pandemic in March this year, the stock was low at most of the blood banks. Government officials at the State Health Society, Bihar, and the Bihar State AIDS Control Society, however, said there was no shortage of blood as its demand had gone down substantially because fewer surgeries were being done during the pandemic. “We have blood to meet our immediate requirement though the inventory doesn’t look healthy. You cannot store blood beyond 35-42 days in case of whole blood and packet red blood cell (PRBC), prepared by removing plasma from whole blood, to transfuse in patients with anaemia. Platelets have a shelf life of five days only while fresh frozen plasma can be stored up to one year. So, we have just enough to meet our requirement,” said the officer. The demand for blood has dipped by almost 90% at each of these hospitals. For instance, the IGIMS, which earlier required up to 60 units of blood every day, now requires barely four unit of blood every day. Similarly, the NMCH, which used to have blood demand up to 20 units per day, now requires 2 units. Both, the IGIMS and the NMCH are now dedicated Covid-19 hospitals. The PMCH had up to 50 units consumption, which had now gone down to around 15-20 units, said doctors. Middlemen, with the nexus of blood bank staff, had brought disrepute to some of these blood banks. The one at the PMCH was in the news recently over alleged blackmarketing of blood. Insiders attributed the nefarious activities to shortage of doctors, which left most blood banks in Patna, including the one at PMCH, at the mercy of lowly-paid staff in the evening, encouraging them to manipulate inventory for pecuniary gains.Bihar has 93 blood banks of which 37 are government and six under Red Cross. The remaining are under private sector.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/key-blood-banks-in-patna-face-shortage-101621437813534.html
19-05-2021||Other||Tejashwi turns his govt house into Covid care centre, wants state to run it||PATNABihar’s leader of the opposition Tejashwi Prasad Yadav on Wednesday converted his official residence at 1 Polo road in the state capital as a Covid care centre and urged the state government to take over the centre for its operationalisation. Yadav, who is in New Delhi, wrote a in a fresh letter to chief minister Nitish Kumar, saying today said he had opened the Covid care centre from his own funds with facilities like oxygen cylinders, beds, medicines as well as meals for patients and attendants. “There is already a big shortage of beds and isolation centres. Poor people infected with Covid have no space in their dwellings to go for isolation or getting quarantined. I have converted my official residence as a Covid care center. I want to hand over the centre to you to run it. I will be always ready for any further help,” the 31-year-old RJD scion said in the letter. He also posted a video on his official Twitter handle slamming the government for its alleged insensitivity and poor health infrastructure to handle the ongoing Covid pandemic in the state.On Tuesday, the opposition leader had written to CM seeking his permission to visit hospitals and primary health centres and make field visits to assess the various initiatives being taken by his party to provide beds, oxygen cylinders to affected patients. Ruling JD(U) and BJP termed it “drama” by the opposition leader. “Tejashwi is enjoying luxury in New Delhi during this period of Covid. It is his old habit. Whenever there is crisis in Bihar, he tends to run away. At a time when the state has made all arrangements to handle the pandemic, he is seeking permission to come to Bihar. With whose permission had he gone to New Delhi that he is seeking permission to come back?” said Nikhil Anand, state spokesperson of the BJP. Senior JD(U) leader and MLC Neeraj Kumar too called it a stunt. “Tejashwi should tell first whether he himself would reside in his official residence to boost the morale of the Covid patients?” he said. “Tejashwi has all resources and there are doctors in his family. They can easily run a Covid centre at their personal house . This is all big drama,” said Suheli Mehta, JD(U) spokesperson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tejashwi-turns-his-govt-house-into-covid-care-centre-wants-state-to-run-it-101621437754445.html
19-05-2021||Other||Complaint lodged against hospital for harassment||PATNADaughter of Covid-19 woman patient, who died Wednesday morning, has filed a police complaint against Paras-HMRI hospital in Patna, alleging sexual harassment and misbehaviour with her mother on May 17 night. The National Commission for Women (NCW) has also sought investigation into the alleged incident. Its chairperson Rekha Sharma has written to Bihar’s chief secretary and police chief.On Tuesday, the daughter had earlier uploaded the statement of her mother on a social networking site, alleging she was sexually assaulted by three to four persons at the hospital. She made a video of her mother in the ICU ward of the hospital , which went viral. Her mother died during treatment on Wednesday. M S Khan, an executive magistrate who visited the hospital, said the police were looking into the matter.Station house officer of Shastrinagar police station, Ramashankar Singh, said, “We are verifying the allegation.”The Paras hospital management has dismissed the allegations. “We will extend our cooperation in all investigations and related matters of this case,” P D Gupta from Paras management said in a statement released to the press. “The patient, a 45-year-old woman, was admitted to Paras-HMRI Hospital on May 15 with symptoms of Covid. She was evaluated and admitted to the Covid ICU. On May 16 evening, she became restless and was not maintaining proper saturation on high flow oxygen. The doctor decided to put her on CPAP support. When she still could not maintaining proper saturation, a group of clinicians decided to put her on mechanical invasive ventilation. The patient did not show signs of recovery and her vitals and other parameters kept deteriorating. This was explained to the next of kin on several occasions. Unfortunately, the patient lost her battle with Covid on the morning of May 19,” the statement said. “The patient’s daughter has alleged that three persons, who she was unable to identify, misbehaved with her between 6 pm of May 16 and 11am of May 17. This matter was taken up by the hospital management and an internal inquiry was conducted. It was found that such an incident has not happened in the premises of the hospital,” Gupta said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/complaint-lodged-against-hospital-for-harassment-101621437753611.html
19-05-2021||Other||Man gets Covishield jab and Covaxin certificate||DARBHANGAA 32-year-old man, who had booked a slot for a dose of Covaxin through Cowin portal, has claimed he was administered a dose of Covishield at a vaccination centre in Samastipur district on May 16 but his certificate mentions he was administered Covaxin.The man, Ankit Sharma, is now worried about the second dose of the Covid-19 vaccine.The vaccination centre is question is at Middle School, Harpur Alloth in Samastipur.As per the copy of the vaccination certificate, Sharma took the jab on May 16 (Batch no. 37F21047A). The next due date for second dose has been scheduled between June 13 and June 27.According to the guidelines of the ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW), the beneficiary has to take the second dose of the same vaccine which he/she took in the first jab. The beneficiary cannot change the vaccine. The guideline for spacing between the two doses of Covaxin and Covishield is not the same. “I request all the officials concerned to take action at the earliest and correct details of certification as it may be dangerous for the persons who will take 2nd dose of #Covaxin”, reads one of the threads posted by Sharma on Twitter. Later, he put out a video clips of him explaining things in this regard.As claimed by Ankit more than 100 people were vaccinated there, he had requested the authorities concerned to look into this matter, but in vain.Samastipur civil surgeon Dr Satyendra Kumar Gupta and district immunisation officer Dr Satish Kumar Sinha didn’t take calls. District programme manager (health) S K Das, however, said he was not the competent authority to speak about the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/man-gets-covishield-jab-and-covaxin-certificate-101621437694712.html
19-05-2021||Pune||Pune city sees fewer babies in 2020 than 2019||Pune: As per the Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC) health department, the city saw fewer baby births registered in 2020 as compared to 2019. While the civic body does not have any specific analysis of the same, the restricted movement of people due to the lockdown and also a large number of people moving out of the city could be the reasons, according to civic officials. As per the data, Pune city reported 50,544 births of which 25,967 male births and 24,577 female births were registered in 2020 while in 2019, 52,669 births were registered, of which 27,407 were male births and 25,262 were of female births. The number of births registered within a year fell by 2,125. The number saw a drastic fall compared to the 2018 fall during which over 55,000 birth registrations were seen due to the population rise as 11 new villages were added to the PMC limits. The highest number of births registered in the last five years was in 2018 when 55,516 births were registered of which 28,815 were of male child and 26,701 were of female children. Dr Kalpana Baliwwant, assistant health officer PMC, who looks after the birth/death registration department said, “I cannot say any specific reason for the same. A birth can be registered within one year of the child’s birth and so if a child born in November or December is registered in the coming months then the birth registration is recorded as per the next year.” In 2020, the city was under strict containment measures in view of the Covid pandemic. This restricted movement of the people which could have hampered the registration of births while a large number of people also moved out of the city which might have actually brought down births in the city. Another civic official said, “In the year 2017, 11 more villages were added and so in 2018 the number of births registered went up drastically. In addition, people have a year’s time to record the birth and so maybe people are avoiding stepping out to register. However, even in that case the hospital has to register within 21 days and send the PMC inputs regarding the birth and this report is based on those who have submitted the report. The 23 villages which are yet under consideration are yet to be added officially within the PMC limits.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-city-sees-fewer-babies-in-2020-than-2019-101621437694121.html
19-05-2021||Other||12 deaths in village 15 days, but residents won’t take a Covid test||BHABHATA/HARPUR (West Champaran)At least 12 people have died in last fortnight, almost all having Covid-like symptoms, in a village in West Champaran district, although these may not be recorded as Covid deaths since they didn’t get tested, either because of lack of facility or because of reluctance by villagers. The village in question, Bhabhata in Narkatiaganj block, is located 25 km from Bettiah, the headquarter town of West Champaran district.Badrey Alam, one of the residents, is yet to come to terms with the death his mother Rehan Khatoon (60) on May 8. “She picked up fever on May 6. Medicines were administered by a local doctor but her oxygen level plummeted drastically two days later before she collapsed,” said Badrey Alam.On the same day, Rafique Ahmad (70), Rehan Khatoon’s neighbour, died following bouts of breathlessness accompanied by fever and coughing, said his son Zakir Hussain.Earlier, Radha Saha (69) collapsed after bouts of fever and loose motion on May 5. Later, a medical team reached the village and detected four Covid positive cases in Alam’s family and one in deceased Rafique Ahmad’s. Navin Prasad, village head of Bhabhata panchayat, said at least 12 people, including two children, had died in a fortnight. “After the medical team detected eight Covid cases and quarantined them at home, villagers even with symptoms have refused to undergo tests,” he said. “Even the family members of some of the deceased got angry and refused to go for testing on one pretext or other. As a result, just 50 people could be tested during our two visits,” said Ravi Shankar Singh, health manager, Narkatiaganj subdivision.Asked why thhis reluctance, one of the villagers, Mahtab Alam, shot back, ““Why rule out? Let this be for all at one go.”Elsewhere in the district, villagers say they don’t have access to testing or vaccination. “No camp has ever organised in our village to administer vaccine. We are simply unaware where to go for vaccination,” said Maqsood Alam of Bakhari village, located 7 km from Narkatiaganj.On the other hand, Brij Ram, a resident of Harpur village in the same area, fears harm from vaccination. When contacted, Sahila Heer, subdivisional magistrate (SDM), Narkatiaganj, conceded poor response for testing in some pockets. “So far as vaccination is concerned, we are administering the same nearly 100% as per the availability of the doses. But then, the villagers must reach the centre for vaccination,” Heer said.According to official records, as many as 6,54,797 tests have been conducted for Covid-19 in West Champaran, of which 16,711 have been detected positive so far. “We are compiling records of tests per block also,” said Dr. Arun Kumar Sinha.A total of 232,829 vaccination shot have been administered in the district so far, as per officials. Meanwhile, the district administration has pressed 1,428 teams comprising Asha workers, sevika and observers to collect micro details from villages. “We have adopted two- pronged strategy, which includes door-to-door visit and telecommunication. While doctors at control rooms are taking stock of patients over phone, 1428 teams visited 12,780 and 17,460 houses on May 16 and 17 respectively to trace persons having symptoms of the disease,” said Kundan Kumar, district magistrate, West Champaran.“This apart, two mobile testing teams are being run to do the testing in the containment zones,” said the DM.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/12-deaths-in-village-15-days-but-residents-won-t-take-a-covid-test-101621437693527.html
19-05-2021||Pune||Refuge area turned into office at Ganga Satellite society, PMC, fire department issue notices||The society office bearers of Ganga Satellite, Wanowrie have turned a blind eye to repeated notices against illegally turning the refuge area in C2 building of the society into an office. Yezdi Motiwalla, a 60-year-old resident of Ganga Satellite, Wanowrie, approached the authorities on April 29 when he along with three members objected to the refuge area being used as an office, a party hall. The refuge area has a working toilet, and a kitchen has also been constructed. The space is is used as a storage space for furniture and it is under lock and key 24x7. It was during the annual general body meeting held on November 1, 2020, that Yezdi Motiwalla, Mariam Lakdawalla, Arun Mahajan and Marut Jain expressed their disapproval on the expenditure on the refurbishment of the refuge area. “We did not pass ₹5, 65,000 being spent on refuge area and I lodged a complaint with the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) who duly sent an engineer from the building control department on April 8, 2021, on site. Even the fire department visited the site on April 10, 2021, and now in spite of issuing legal notices for demolition, the chairman is refusing to do anything,” said Motiwalla. “The refuge area in a building is to be kept open and vacant and is meant to be a meeting point for evacuation in an emergency situation when a fire breaks out. According to state guidelines and the fire department, no construction or conversion of the refuge area into anything else is permitted,” said chief fire officer Prashant Ranpise, who added that if the society does not demolish it, then the fire brigade will take legal action and cut the water and electricity supply to the society. “It is the society’s responsibility to remove the illegal structure in the refuge area and we have served them the notice,” he said. “It is illegal to turn the refuge area into any other space, especially when you have senior citizens also in the society, this refuge area is to help during any kind of disaster, but it is being kept under lock and key and turned into a party place. What good is it to people when it is needed?” said Motiwalla. The society chairman and secretary were issued the notices by the fire department on April 22 and by the PMC on April 26. The society chairman, Hiten Talati, refuted the notice and said, “We have replied to the notices from PMC and fire department, and I have nothing further to add.” PMC building department, executive engineer Harshada Shinde said, “We have given them 30 days to demolish the illegal construction in the refuge area, if they do not follow then we will take action along with police, but since it is Covid, and police are busy with bandobast, we are waiting to get the police personnel for the necessary action.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/refuge-area-turned-into-office-at-ganga-satellite-society-pmc-fire-department-issue-notices-101621437573543.html
19-05-2021||Pune||History-sheeter Tilaksingh Taak arrested by cops||The Pune police have arrested the working head of one of the three crime families of Shikalgari community in Pune on Tuesday - Tilaksingh Gabbarsingh Taak. All of 28 years of age, Taak has a history of scores of cases against him and is a resident of Ramtekdi area. Taak was arrested in a case registered at Wanowrie police station in which sections of Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act (MCOCA) has been invoked. “One car of Anti-dacoity cell officials was shown to have broken down in the middle of the road and in according to the informer’s information, a Honda City car arrived there at 8:20pm and the police flagged it down,” read a statement from the Pune police crime branch. As the car stopped near the seemingly broken-down car around 8:20pm on Dalingaon road in Pandharsthal village on May 10, the police raided the vehicle and arrested four of its six travellers. The car was reported to have been stolen and a case of theft was registered for it at Kondhwa police station. The four were identified as Taak, Nishant alias Bluck anil Nanavare, Sunil Pakash Gaikwad, and Ganesh Rajjendra Shivadkar, all residents of Ramtekdi area. Two men from the car managed to flee the spot. Upon investigation, the police found five stolen cars, two from Kondhwa, Yerawada, Vimantal, and Nigdi, in their possession. Along with the five, two other cases were also brought to light due to these arrests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/historysheeter-tilaksingh-taak-arrested-by-cops-101621437393466.html
19-05-2021||Pune||Despite drop in demand, Remdesivir vials found on black market||The police forces in Pune district have found two cases of black marketing of Remdesivir even though the demand for Remdesivir has decreased in the last three weeks, according to the allocation list issued by the district collector’s office. A 25-year-old man was arrested by Pune city police crime branch for selling Remdesivir on the black market on Tuesday in the Lohegaon area. On the same day, the Pune rural police arrested another man for selling the drug Shikrapur. The man arrested by Pune city police was identified as Devendra Kaluram Chaudhury (25), a resident of Chirke Colony in Lohegaon, Pune while the one arrested by Pune rural police was identified as Amit Devidas Pawar. A case under Sections 420 (cheating), 188, and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code along with relevant sections of Drug Price Control Order, 2013; Drugs and Cosmetics Act, 1940; was registered at Vimantal police station. A case under similar sections was registered at Shikrapur police station. Chaudhury, a pharmacist, had acquired the injection from a person known to him who had procured four vials of Remdesivir for a patient. However, as one vial was not used, the person sold it to Chaudhury who in-turn sold it for ₹45,000. Pawar, on the other hand, has no medical background and was found carrying four vials in the storage of his two-wheeler vehicle. A total of 168 hospitals in the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and 116 hospitals in the Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) received allocation of Remdesivir through the district collector’s office on Tuesday. The PMC and PCMC each have about 100 hospitals treating Covid-19 patients, according to the divisional commissioner’s Covid-19 dashboard. On Tuesday, 553 hospitals in Pune district received 6,534 Remdesivir injections. One week before that, on May 12, 626 hospitals received 6,530 injections and on May 5, the allocation was of 9,756 for 557 hospitals. Therefore, the demand has considerably gone down and even though the process is monitored by the district collector office, the injections are landing in the black market and what’s more, they are also finding buyers who are ready to pay over 12 times its market price. The readiness of relatives to pay the amount stands proof of the loophole in the Remdesivir distribution and supply system.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/despite-drop-in-demand-remdesivir-vials-found-on-black-market-101621437333418.html
19-05-2021||Pune||Four from Gujarat-based stock broking firm booked for cheating||The Pimpri-Chinchwad police booked four people from a stock broking firm in Gujarat for duping a man from Chinchwad of ₹40.2 lakh within a month between February and March. The four booked in the case were identified only as Prakash bhai, Anil bhai, Anil Sutar and Priya Patel, all believed to be residents of Gujarat. A complaint in the matter was lodged by Ajit Krushnaji Devale (57), a resident of Link road in Chinchwad. Devale who holds a job in a private company, was approached by Priya Patel between February 3 and March 8 and she convinced him to invest in the share market through the two men to whom she introduced him. Through multiple transactions, Devale sent ₹50,02,000 to the bank account of the two men identified only as Anil and Prakash bhai. Over the months, Devale received ₹9, 77,110 but the accused failed to return the remaining ₹40, 24,890 to the complainant. He then approached the police and lodged a complaint. A case under Sections 420 (cheating), 406 (criminal breach of trust), and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Chinchwad police station. Police sub inspector GD Mane of Chinchwad police station is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/four-from-gujarat-based-stock-broking-firm-booked-for-cheating-101621437273447.html
19-05-2021||Pune||Pune reports first death due to mucormycosis||Pune: The city on Wednesdayreported its first death due to mucormycosis, commonly known as “black fungus”. The reported death was that of a 29-year-old man who was obese and diabetic. This is the first reported death due to the infection, said PMC health officials. The civic body is ramping up its facilities to admit patients fighting with mucormycosis at its hospitals. The city has reported 168 cases of “black fungus” among the Covid recovered patients.On Wednesday, PMC chief health officer Dr Ashish Bharti said the city has reported one death due to the fungal infection and of the 168 cases reported in the city among Covid recovered patients, only two are being treated in civic hospitals and remaining in private hospitals. Dr Bharti said, “Mucormycosis is a fungal infection caused mainly because the immunity is suppressed in Covid recovered patients due to the use of steroids during the treatment course. Of the 166 patients in private hospitals, one has been declared dead as of yesterday’s updates.”The patient declared dead due to mucormycosis was reported from Bharti hospital. Dr Jitendra Oswal, deputy medical Director at the hospital, said, “The patient was a morbid obese weighing 110 kgs and suffering from uncontrolled diabetic. He died due to spread of the fungus through the blood which is called as a condition named fugemia. The patient was shifted from another hospital for Covid treatment where he underwent steroid treatment and developed swelling in his eyes before he was brought to our hospital. He had swelling in his face required a ventilator and multiple surgeries.” Dr Bharati said, “We would reserve about 10-15 beds dedicated for the treatment of mucormycosis who would be referred from other civic hospitals and admitted at Dalvi hospital. For medical management we would get anti-fungal drugs like Amphotericin B in probably the next two days and for surgical management we also have an ENT and ophthalmologist surgeon at the hospital and the operation theatre which was shut due to Covid cases since Dalvi hospital is a maternity hospital, we would procure the equipment required for operation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-reports-one-first-death-due-to-mucormycosis-101621437213395.html
19-05-2021||Other||Two rapes reported in 24 hours, accused in one case nabbed||Two rapes were reported in Macchiwara and Samrala area in the past 24 hours.In the first case, Machhiwara police booked a 29-year-old man for raping and threatening to kill a 13-year-old girl.The accused, identified as Mandeep Singh of Machhiwara area, was arrested on Tuesday evening, said inspector Parveen Sharma, Machhiwara station house officer.Mandeep, who was booked under Section 376 (rape), 511(attempting to commit offences punishable with imprisonment for life), 328 (whoever administers to or causes to be taken by any person any poison), 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 3/4 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, was presented before the court on Wednesday and sent to police remand. The victim told the police the incident took place on May 16. Around 1.30 am when her parents were asleep, the accused entered their house and forcibly took her to an abandoned house in the neighbourhood and raped her. The victim said Mandeep threatened her of dire consequences if she revealed the incident but she confided in her parents, who lodged a complaint with the Machhiwara police.Soon after receiving the complaint, the cops launched a manhunt and nabbed that accused. Second victim differently abledIn the second incident, a 20-year-old girl, who was attending a Covid patient, was raped by a 25- year-old man in a house in Bondli Changi village near Samrala.The case has been registered on the complaint of the victim’s father.He told the police that Jaswinder Kaur, who is his distant relative, was suffering from Covid-19.The victim’s father stated that he had sent his daughter, who has mental disabilities, to look after Jaswinder Kaur.He said that Ravi Kumar, 34, who was a frequent visitor to the house, had raped his daughter during her stay there. He had learnt of the incident when he went to meet her on Tuesday. As soon as his daughter narrated her ordeal, he lodged a complaint with the police. According to investigating officer Lakhwinder Kaur, soon after receiving the complaint, the accused Ravi Kumar was booked under Section 376 of the IPC.Lakhwinder Kaur said that Jaswinder Kaur, the owner of the house, was also booked as she had concealed the incident. But Jaswinder told the police that she could not report the matter as she had been unwell.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/two-rapes-reported-in-24-hours-accused-in-one-case-nabbed-101621437033571.html
19-05-2021||Other||Traffic police, NHAI survey “death stretch” from Navale Bridge chowk till Dari Pul tunnel||PUNE In a bid to reduce the number of accidents with more precautionary measures in place, the Pune traffic police and the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI), carried out a survey of a stretch of road from the Navale Bridge chowk till the Dari Pul tunnel. The survey was carried out on Wednesday.The stretch has seen a series of fatal and serious accidents. At least 10 people have died in accidents on this stretch in the last six months.“A team of NHAI officials along with our traffic police have done the survey. In last six months there were fatal accidents and people seriously injured, so we had given instructions for proper signage boards, installing rumblers and reflectors, and the repairing of roads, among several other issues,” said Nandkishore Shelke, senior inspector and traffic police division in-charge, Sinhagad road. In the recent past, NHAI and the Pune traffic police lowered the speed limit and installed a police check point at this stretch. “After this initial work, now we are working on the other safety aspects, which need time and public support. We are studying the entry and exit points throughout the highway. There are some illegal accesses which need to be closed,” added Shelke. “It is a daily risk for residents living nearby to traverse this highway stretch. Due to lockdown, vehicle movement is low nowadays, but still there should be a permanent solution. Two-wheeler riders go directly on to the highway from these small access areas, which is very risky,” said Ramesh Vidhate, secretary, Sinhagad Road Residents Forum.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/traffic-police-nhai-survey-death-stretch-from-navale-bridge-chowk-till-dari-pul-tunnel-101621436313318.html
19-05-2021||Pune||Shortage worsens for drug to treat mucormycosis; Remdesivir demand drops in Pune||Pune: The demand for Remdesivir, anti-viral drug used for Covid treatment, in the district has come down following report of less positive cases. According to the district officials, 73 hospitals across the district have not taken their allocated stock of Remdesivir as compared to last week. Meanwhile, requirement for Amphotericin B, drug used to treat fungal infection mucormycosis has gone up. “Until last week, Remdesivir was distributed in 626 hospitals in the district. The count has dropped to 553 by Tuesday this week. The number is expected to further go down in coming days,” said Vijay Deshmukh, Pune additional collector. Pune, according to Deshmukh, is currently getting an average of 4,000-5,000 vials per day. On Tuesday, Pune district recorded 3,741 new cases with active caseload at 67,373, down from 88,851 on May 12. Shyam Pratapwar, assistant commissioner, Food and Drug Administration Pune, said that the demand for Remdesivir has dropped in the district by almost 20 per cent as compared to the last week. A control room has been set up at district collectorate to regulate supply of Amphotericin B to hospitals. Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope said the state currently has over 800 active patients of mucormycosis for whom the government has ordered 1.90 lakh injections of amphotericin. “However, these firms cannot deliver the vials directly to us now as the supply has been regulated by the Centre from today. We have demanded to Centre to increase the allocation for Maharashtra,” said Tope in Mumbai on Wednesday. On the efficacy of Remdesivir, after Dr Devender Singh Rana, chairperson, Board of Management, Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, Delhi and also a member of the national task force constituted by the Supreme Court said that the drug may be dropped from the recommended treatment protocol, experts in Pune emphasised the effectiveness of the drug widely depends on the timing of its usage. “Remdesivir has proven to be beneficial if administered in the first 5-6 days of Covid infection. The drug is ineffective if delayed,” said Dr Subhal Dixit, critical care expert and chief of the Sanjeevan hospital, Pune. Dr Jitendra Oswal, deputy medical director at Bharati Vidyapeeth Medical College and Hospital, pointed at the results of World Health Organisation’s Solidarity trial. He said the drug is less effective in patients on invasive ventilators. “Ultimately to say that a drug has been effective we need to see how many Covid patients were saved using this drug,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/shortage-deepens-for-drug-to-treat-mucormycosis-remdesivir-demand-drops-101621435593311.html
19-05-2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand govt says Covid-19 test in state double the national average||The Covid-19 positivity rate has come down from 23 per cent to 18 per cent in Uttarakhand and the testing rate at present is double the national average, the state government said on Wednesday.In the last 24 hours, more than 7,000 people have recovered from Covid-19, while 4,800 new cases have been detected, state Health Secretary Amit Negi said at a joint press conference with police and SDRF officials."Covid positivity rate has come down from 23 per cent to 18 per cent. Sampling is also being consistently increased. A total of 35,000 samples were tested on Tuesday. The Covid testing rate of Uttarakhand at present is double the national average," he said.After April 1, the rate of Covid-19 mortality has been the highest in the 40-79 age group, while the positivity rate has been the highest in the 30-39 age group, Negi said.Oxygen supply nodal officer Ranjit Sinha said apart from 96 metric tonnes allocated through three major oxygen plants, 70 metric tonnes of oxygen is being produced from six small oxygen producing units, which is enough to fill 7,700 MT jumbo size oxygen cylinders.About 260 metric tonnes of oxygen has also been received from other states in three separate consignments, Sinha said. About 50 metric tonnes of oxygen has been reserved for the Garhwal region and 40 metric tonnes for Kumaon, he said, adding that many more oxygen plants are coming up in the state.Inspector General (IG) Amit Sinha said action is being taken against hospitals and ambulances for overcharging patients. He also said a case has been registered against a lab in Udham Singh Nagar district for conducting RT-PCR tests without having a license for it.Deputy Inspector General of Police SDRF Ridhim Agarwal said the State Disaster Response Fund (SDRF) has adopted 20 villages in nine hilly districts of the state to ensure 100 per cent compliance with the anti-Covid standard operating procedures by people in quarantine centres and home isolation.Villages where migrants have returned in large numbers have been selected for the purpose, she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/uttarakhand-govt-says-covid-19-test-in-state-double-the-national-average-101621434389360.html
19-05-2021||Other||Standing committee okays Rs42 lakh oxygen system for Rajiv Gandhi hospital in Yerawada||PUNE The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) standing committee, on Tuesday, gave its approval for the installation of a proper oxygen supply system at the Rajiv Gandhi hospital in Yerawada.The standing committee sanctioned the proposal of ₹42 lakh to set up the oxygen plant. The Rajiv Gandhi hospital is one of the prominent PMC hospitals in the eastern part of the city.The PMC has also planned a dedicated paediatric Covid unit at the hospital.Hemant Rasane, chairman, standing committee, said, “We have passed a proposal to set up a liquid oxygen tank with a capacity of 10 kilolitre; it will take 15 to 20 days to set up.”PMC has now increased its production and storage capacity of oxygen to 40 tonnes per day, setting up three new plants at the Naidu, Dalvi and Laigude hospitals. PMC has used funds raised under the banner of corporate social responsibility (CSR).The corporation has also decided to purchase a generator for the oxygen plant at Naidu hospital. The standing committee sanctioned Rs11 lakh for the generator.Madhuri Misal, member of the Legislative Assembly (MLA) from the Parvati constituency, has given ₹20 lakh from her development funds for the purchase of six ventilators by the PMC.SPPU to start oxygen refilling plant on campusThe Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU), has decided to set up an oxygen bottling plant on campus. Daily oxygen cylinders of 25 litres in capacity will be able to be filled here.“Initially these oxygen cylinders will be provided free of cost, while later, nominal charges will be levied. SPPU has always been at the forefront right from the day one of the pandemic,” said SPPU vice-chancellor Prof Nitin Karmalkar. SPPU is starting this plant with the help of a Gujarat- based company. “This plant will begin its operations in a month’s time near the Khadki gate. As the third wave of Covid is expected, this will certainly help patients. Also, we are thinking of allowing students to study the as well,” added Karmalkar. This budget for the plant is ₹28 lakh and all the money will be raised under the corporate social responsibility (CSR) banner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/standing-committee-okays-rs42-lakh-oxygen-system-for-rajiv-gandhi-hospital-in-yerawada-101621435353404.html
19-05-2021||Mumbai||A day after dipping below 30K, Maharashtra fresh Covid-19 cases rise to 34,031, 594 deaths recorded||Maharashtra on Wednesday found 34,031 people infected with coronavirus disease (Covid-19), while 594 lost their lives to the illness, according to the state health bulletin. The state reported a rise of 5,593 cases in the last 24 hours, as 28,438 infections were reported on Tuesday. The number of daily deaths fell by 367 in the last 24 hours.Also read| New RT-PCR kit 97.3% sensitive in detecting Covid mutants: All you need to knowAt present, the state's Covid-19 case tally stands at 5,467,537, with the active caseload at 401,695. The new mortalities pushed the overall toll to 84,371, the bulletin showed. The case positivity rate also increased marginally from 11.36 per cent on Tuesday to 11.91 per cent on Wednesday.The case fatality rate of the state with one of the highest deaths in the country remained the same in the last 24 hours at 1.54 per cent, as per the bulletin.More than 51,000 patients recovered from the virus in comparison to 52,898 recoveries registered on Tuesday. A total of 285,647 samples were tested for the viral infection in the past 24 hours. The number of testing has increased as 250,310 tests were conducted across the state on Tuesday.Mumbai on Wednesday reported 1,329 new Covid-19 cases, an incline from the previous day's infections, as on Tuesday 961 new infections were reported, according to the data.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19The new fatalities rose in the last 24 hours, as 57 people succumbed to the deadly virus, the data showed. On Tuesday, 44 deaths were reported in the state capital.Maharashtra, which is under stringent lockdown-like restrictions to contain the spread of the virus, is recording a steep decline in its infection rate. The state that used to be the number one contributor to the daily new cases has now dropped to the fourth spot. Maharashtra also reported the second-highest recoveries in the country on Wednesday, according to the Union health ministry data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/a-day-after-dipping-below-30k-maharashtra-fresh-covid-19-cases-rise-to-34-031-594-deaths-recorded-mumbai-sees-1-329-new-cases-101621434592192.html
19-05-2021||Other||After cyclone Tauktae, electricity continues to elude parts of Goa||The electricity department continued to work on a war footing to restore power to parts of Goa that remained without electricity for nearly 100 hours since cyclone Tauktae flattened much of the state’s overhead electricity infrastructure.Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant who has been travelling across the state to assess the damage said that while power has been restored in many parts of Goa, in others it might be until tomorrow (Thursday) before they get electricity.“Some people’s power will be restored today, others will have to wait till tomorrow. The major loss has been of electricity infrastructure. We initially estimated it to be around 22-crore but I think it will go beyond that up to 40 crores,” Sawant said.“Because there is no power, people also cannot pump water, so it’s a water problem as well,” Sawant added.“Poles have uprooted in many locations. We do not have the manpower and have to bring the men from other states as well. I have asked them to spend funds from the disaster management funds,” he added.State power secretary Kunal (he uses only first name), said that Goa’s power consumption has reached nearly pre-Tauktae levels pointing that power has been restored in most places.“Goa Electricity Department is working round the clock to restore power supplies,” he said.“With dedicated efforts and hard work of our frontline warriors viz linesmen and engineers, the supply of power is continuously rising and hoping to achieve pre-Tauktae level soon,” he added.According to the electricity department’s data, the power supply which was around 500 megawatt (MW) before the cyclone struck crashed to barely 60MW on the day of the cyclone (May 16) and since then has climbed to nearly 200MW, 300MW and 400 MW on Wednesday. It is expected to reach pre-Tauktae levels by Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/after-cyclone-tauktae-electricity-continues-to-elude-parts-of-goa-101621434693976.html
19-05-2021||Other||Cyclone Tauktae hits fish supply to Pune, retail prices double||PUNE Retail prices of fish doubled in the city in the wake of a lack of fresh stock arriving from coastal districts hit by Cyclone Tauktae over the last three days.The prices of promfret, prawns, and kingfish have all doubled. Before the cyclone hit the state, the price was for one kg of pomfret at the fish markets in Nana peth and Camp (Shivaji market) were between ₹700 and ₹800 per kg. Now the cost of a kg of pomfret is ₹1,800. Similarly, one kg of prawns was selling at Rs600 per kg. It is now selling at Rs1,200 per kg.Tausif Shaikh, fish vendor at the Camp market, said, “There is a shortage of supply from the coastal areas of Maharashtra and Gujarat, so prices have gone up.”Sandeep Pardeshi , a fish vendor from Nana peth said, “There is short supply of fish hence the high prices. Now customers are demanding river fish varieties. Fisheries along the west coast have all almost completely shut. We hope fisheries on the East coast, from Howrah, West Bengal, will ease the supply situation. Demand for fish is high in the city,” he said.Alex Sebastian, a fish lover, said, “Fish is out of reach of the middle class . Instead of buying pomfret, I prefer to buy cheaper varieties. I hope the prices come as the cyclone has passed.“||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cyclone-tauktae-hits-fish-supply-to-pune-retail-prices-double-101621434273209.html
19-05-2021||Other||Pune receives second-highest rainfall in May for the past 10 years||PUNE Pune, on Wednesday, received 7.8 mm of rainfall, taking the overall rainfall received this month, so far, to 47.1 mm. This is the second-highest rainfall reported in May in Pune city for the past 10 years, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD). The all-time record for rainfall in May was 181.6 mm reported in 1933. The city received 112.7 mm in 2015, while in 2010 it was it was 5.6 mm. As per the IMD, rainfall across the city is likely to continue till Thursday. “The sky may remain clear during the day, but towards the afternoon, it will get cloudy with chances of light rainfall accompanied by thunderstorms and lightning,” said IMD officials. After May 21, the chances of rainfall will reduce, but cloudy skies will continue. Anupam Kashyapi, head of Weather Forecasting at IMD Pune, said that the remaining days of May will be pleasant for Pune city. “As per the forecast, the days will be pleasant with cloudy weather and light rain may continue till the end of May giving Pune a respite from rising temperatures,” said Kashyapi. Along with Pune, rainfall is forecast to continue in the four subdivisions of Maharashtra till May 21. The highest maximum temperature reported in Maharashtra on Wednesday was at 40.5 degrees Celsius at Brahmapuri. The lowest minimum temperature reported on Wednesday was at 17.6 degrees Celsius in Mahabaleshwar. IMD also added that the Southwest Monsoon is likely to advance into South Andaman Sea and adjoining Southeast Bay of Bengal around May 21. During the same time, a low-pressure area is likely to form over north Andaman Sea and adjoining east-central Bay of Bengal around May 22, 2021. Remnants of the extremely severe cyclonic storm Tauktae moved over southeast Rajasthan as of Wednesday evening, and is likely to now move further north-eastwards towards Uttar Pradesh. It is likely to reduce in intensity and form into a well-marked low pressure area, as per IMD. Rain in May, down the years2015 -- 112.7 mm2021 -- 47.1 mm2010 -- 5.6 mm1933 -- 181.6 mmSource: IMD||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pune-receives-second-highest-rainfall-in-may-for-the-past-10-years-101621433554144.html
19-05-2021||Jaipur||1000 'corona health consultants' to strengthen Rajasthan government's fight against Covid-19||The Rajasthan government will appoint 1,000 'corona health consultants' to strengthen the fight against coronavirus by speeding up door-to-door survey, delivering drug and providing treatment to patients across the state.The State Civil Defence Department will also select and appoint 'corona health assistants'.The state's Minister of Medical and Health Raghu Sharma said health consultants will be appointed in order to speed up the work of door-to-door survey and drug delivery to break the chain of Covid-19 infection, provide proper treatment to patients and reduce mortality rate.The appointments will be made by July 31.Issuing the guidelines, Medical Department Principal Secretary Akhil Arora said that 1,000 health consultants will be employed in the state.He said that the minimum qualification to be a consultant is an MBBS degree and being a registered practitioner Rajasthan Medical Council.The minimum qualification for being appointed a corona health assistant is Nurse Grade II or GNM and registered by Rajasthan Nursing Council (RNC).The monthly honorarium to be paid to consultants is ₹39,300, while health assistants will get ₹7,900.Arora said the services of the consultant will be taken at the Corona Counseling Center and in house-to-house survey workHe said one health assistant will be employed at each Gram Panchayat, two at Primary Health Centers and three at Community Health Centers.The Principal Secretary said that local residents in each district, rural or urban area will be given priority in appointment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/1000-corona-health-consultants-to-strengthen-rajasthan-government-s-fight-against-covid19-101621431320200.html
19-05-2021||Bangalore||Orders placed for Covid-19 vaccines, expect to deliver at least one dose to all by December: Karnataka deputy CM||The Karnataka state government aims to inoculate the entire population of the state with at least one dose of the Covid-19 vaccine by the end of December 2021, deputy chief minister CN Ashwathnarayan said on Wednesday. The deputy CM also said that the state has already placed orders for the vaccines with the manufacturers and has also requested them to increase the supply.“We have placed orders for 2 crore vaccine doses with SII [Serum Institute of India] and 1 crore with Bharat Biotech. They have started supplying, around 10 lakh vaccines have been supplied by the SII, around 1.5 lakh doses supplied by Bharat Biotech. We are requesting them to scale up the supply,” news agency ANI quoted Ashwathnarayan as saying.“It's a matter of time. By August, we will have huge vaccine availability. Probability by end of December, we can expect the entire population to have at least a single dose,” the deputy CM further added.Also read | Karnataka's BS Yediyurappa announces ₹1,250 cr relief package, oppn says it’s insufficientEarlier in the day, state health minister K Sudhakar also made similar comments when he said that the state government intends to vaccinate all beneficiaries in the state by the end of the year. “Our major objective is to vaccinate all by October end or November end. All our efforts are in the direction of vaccinating every citizen by the end of the year,” news agency PTI quoted Sudhakar as saying.The health minister also confirmed that the state has received over a million doses of the Covid-19 vaccine from the two manufacturers in India -- Covishield doses from the Serum Institute of India in Pune and Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech’ Covaxin.“The state has so far received 10,94,000 doses;- 9,50,000 Covishield and 1,44,000 Covaxin, as part of direct procurement from manufacturers. It has also received an additional 1,11,24,470 doses from the Government of India,” ANI quoted the health minister as saying on Wednesday.Karnataka has emerged as the country’s new Covid-19 hotspot in the second wave of the pandemic. With 575,049 active cases as of the day, it accounts for 25 per cent of India’s active caseload, data from the Union health ministry showed. Also, as of 7am on the day, the state has administered 11,361,234 doses of the vaccine, according to the central ministry’s dashboard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/orders-placed-for-covid-19-vaccines-expect-to-deliver-at-least-one-dose-to-all-by-december-karnataka-deputy-chief-minister-cn-ashwathnarayan-101621431649798.html
19-05-2021||Jaipur||People in Kota hiring ‘caretakers’ for hospitalised Covid-19 family members||Family members of Covid-19 patients in Rajasthan’s Kota are hiring ‘caretakers’ for attending to their hospitalised patients in Kota owing to the fear of catching Covid-19 or lack of enough family members who can look after the patients, HT has learnt. Sharda (40) brought her Covid-19 positive husband from native district Sawai Madhopur to neighbouring district Kota for treatment of Covid-19 a week ago. She hired a man on daily wages in Kota to help her take care of her husband at the Covid-19 dedicated hospital in Kota a few days ago. Sharda has no one else in her family other than her husband and kids. She is now looking to hire another caretaker as the one hired earlier left for better-paying work in the city.“I need a male caretaker to help me as there is no one to massage my ailing husband’s hands and legs which pain due to Covid-19 infection,” Sharda said. “Earlier, I hired a male caretaker for ₹700 per day but now I am again in search of an attendant,” she said. “I demand from the hospital administration to provide us with caretakers for looking after my Covid positive husband,” she added.Family members of Covid-19 patients keep these ‘hired’ caretakers in the wards of the dedicated Covid-19 hospitals by making them pose as family members and attendants of the patients.Since there has been a lockdown in the state from the last three weeks, many daily wagers lost their jobs and are forced to work as caretakers at hospitals for Covid-19 patients while putting their own lives at risk.These caretakers are reported to be taking per day wages of ₹700 to ₹1,000 for attending to the Covid-19 patients. One such hired caretaker is fifty-five-year-old Ved Prakash. “Due to the lockdown, I had no work as markets and shops were closed and when somebody asked me to work as a caretaker at the Covid hospital on daily wages I came here and started serving Covid patients,” Prakash said.“We are attending to Covid-19 patients in just face masks and gloves as neither the family members of the patients nor the hospital administration has provided PPE kits,” he alleged.Another caretaker told HT that family members of a Covid-19 patient gave him ₹700 per day for staying overnight in the Covid-19 ward with their hospitalised patient as the family was getting tired of looking after their patient the entire day.As per the people privy to the developments, there are over half a dozen or more people who are working as hired caretakers in the hospital. The reason for hiring such caretakers is either fear among family members of contracting the virus or lack of enough attendants to look after the patient. Superintendent of the Covid-19 dedicated government hospital in Kota, Dr Chandrashekhar Sushil, admitted the presence of hired caretakers in the hospital. “Nearly 10 days ago, hospital authorities caught a couple of people who were hired as caretakers for Covid-19 patients. They said that there were 4-5 women caretakers as well,” he said.“We are checking such hired caretakers but if the family members give us an undertaking that they have authorised some caretaker to look after their covid patient, we will allow them”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/people-in-kota-hiring-caretakers-for-hospitalised-covid-19-family-members-101621429893252.html
19-05-2021||Mumbai||How are celebrities, politicians procuring Covid-19 drugs? asks Bombay HC||The Bombay High Court on Wednesday directed the Maharashtra government and the Centre to file affidavits explaining how celebrities and politicians were procuring anti-Covid-19 drugs, medical oxygen and other relief materials for coronavirus patients.A bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice GS Kulkarni had asked for such details last week as well from the the Maharashtra government and the Centre, who faced flak during hearing for non-compliance of previous orders.However, on Wednesday the state government submitted a report merely saying it had served show cause notices (on procuring Covid-19 relief materials) to Mumbai Congress MLA Zeeshan Siddique and the Sood Charity Foundation (an NGO of actor Sonu Sood), but was yet to receive their replies.Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh told the HC the Union government had not filed any report since procurement and distribution of Remdesivir (a key Covid-19 drug) and medical oxygen, among other items, were the prerogative of a state and the Centre merely allocated such resources to states based on the latter's demands.The bench took an exception to the responses of the state government and the Centre (represented by Singh).The HC said it had expected better replies and compliance of its previous orders from both the respondents."These persons (celebrities) have no licence (to procure Covid-19 drugs, medical oxygen), who will take the guarantee? There should have been a report."You (the state government)) have only issued show cause notices, we said place a report on this. We are not happy with this," the HC said.The bench said its primary concern was that the needy must not miss out on getting relief since all were not in a position to make appeals on social media."Who will guarantee that drugs being given by these personalities are of proper quality?" the HC said."The allocation is by UOI (Union of India), collection is by State, then where is the window for collection or procurement by these personalities? That is our anxiety," the bench observed.The HC directed the state and the Centre to file their detailed reply affidavits by next week.It also directed the Maharashtra government to submit details on the requirements for medical oxygen (needed to treat serious Covid-19 patients) and Remdesivir, among other items, across the state, the supplies it was receiving from the Centre and other entities.The HC was hearing a bunch of public interest litigations (PILs) on the management of issues connected to the Covid-19 pandemic.It also praised the model devised by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) to tackle the infection spread, procure, produce and store oxygen, and anti-Covid-19 drugs.Senior Counsel Anil Sakhare, who appeared for the BMC, told the bench that the civic body was making arrangements for vaccinating citizens and improving paediatrics health infrastructure in Mumbai (in view of a possible third Covid-19 wave).He said the BMC had invited a global expression of interest for procuring 1 crore doses of Covid-19 vaccines."Bombay (Mumbai) corporation has had unique vision since ages," the HC said.The court will continue hearing the PILs on May 25.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/how-are-celebrities-politicians-procuring-covid-19-drugs-asks-bombay-hc-101621428871828.html
19-05-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka's BS Yediyurappa announces ₹1,250 cr relief package, oppn says it’s insufficient||Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa on Wednesday announced a financial relief package for a section of the people who have been hit hard by the Covid-19 pandemic and the subsequent lockdowns that have affected their livelihood and income.“To provide relief to people who have lost income and livelihood due to the 2nd wave of Covid-19, ₹1,250 crore of economic support has been sanctioned to farmers, workers from the unorganised sector, auto and cab drivers, street vendors among others,” Yediyurappa said in a post on Twitter.“Even when our financial situation is not very good, we are telling the people that we are there with them,” Yediyurappa added at a press conference to announce the financial package for Karnataka.A statement by the chief minister’s office (CMO) later, however, said the package amounts to ₹1,111.8 crore.Karnataka's relief package comes weeks after the Yediyurappa-led government reversed its decision not to announce a lockdown on account of its unpreparedness for the impact of the imminent second Covid wave despite warnings from a government-appointed technical advisory committee (TAC) in November.Karnataka remains in lockdown till May 24; there is a possibility that it will be extended.Yediyurappa announced a ₹1,610 crore package in May last year but many of the targeted beneficiaries said it was hardly able to compensate people for the loss of their income.Karnataka’s large farming population of the calamity-prone state have been struggling for years, particularly since they have faced at least 15 years of droughts and four major floods over the last 20 years. The government is yet to announce any compensation for those hit by Cyclone Tauktae.Congress leader Siddramaiah said the chief minister announced relief packages worth ₹2,100 crore last year but did not spend the money. He said less than 50% of the targeted beneficiaries last time got any relief.Karnataka has seen a steady increase in Covid-19 cases and accounts for 5,75,049 active cases, nearly 17% of the country’s 32,26,719 active cases on Wednesday. While Karnataka’s capital Bengaluru, which accounted for almost 60% of the state’s cases and fatalities, has seen a sharp decline in new infections, data also shows that the state had reduced the number of people being tested on an average.The financial package announced on Wednesday involves a one-time payment of ₹10,000 for about 20,000 flower growers and 69,000 farmers who produce fruit and vegetables costing the exchequer a total of around ₹81.73 crore.Yediyurappa announced financial relief ranging from ₹2,000- ₹3,000 for around 2.1 lakh licensed and registered auto, taxi and maxi cab drivers, around 3.04 lakh people working as barbers, dhobis, hamalis, rag pickers, potters, goldsmiths, mechanics and domestic workers among others. The government also announced that around 2.20 lakh street vendors would get around ₹2,000 each, totalling to ₹44 crore. Yediyurappa announced ₹3,000 each for around 16095 artists and artist groups that would cost the state ₹4.85 crore.Registered construction workers would get ₹3,000 from the welfare fund that would entail a total relief of ₹494 crore.The chief minister also extended the loan period for short, medium and long-term loans availed by around 4.25 lakh farmers and others by three months that would entail the government bearing the interest payment of ₹134.38 crore.The chief minister said the state is extending the relief given by the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana by giving an additional 30 lakh people 5 kg rice. This would benefit a total of 43.4 million people or 12.6 million ration cardholders.Wednesday’s announcement said 10kg food grains will be given to BPL cardholders while APL cardholders would get grains for ₹15 per kg per month for May and June.Yediyurappa said the government was spending around ₹25 crore to provide around 6 lakh people a day with free food that was being distributed at Indira Canteens.Opposition leaders were, however, dismissive of the state government’s package. They said it won’t help.“I had asked for a lockdown in March itself, but no announcement was made. The lockdown took place in neighbouring Kerala in March and a ₹20,000 crore package was also announced. Kerala is a small state compared to Karnataka. But is this ₹1,200 crore compensation for the larger state of Karnataka?” HD Kumaraswamy, former chief minister and Janata Dal (Secular) leader said.The Congress insists that all economically weaker sections be paid ₹10,000, and the money should be handed to panchayats.“The government should conduct a survey on how many people have lost jobs.This is not a government that thinks about the poor. Since we insisted on a package, they have announced it. But it has completely failed,” DK Shivakumar, the president of the Karnataka Congress said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/yediyurappa-announces-rs-1-250-cr-relief-package-oppn-says-it-s-insufficient-101621429293061.html
19-05-2021||Pune||Gurudwara at Camp launches “Free Oxygen Langar Sewa”||Pune: The Gurudwara Guru Nanak Darbar, Camp, has launched “Free Oxygen Langar Sewa” for Covid patients who are prescribed medical oxygen and are finding it difficult to get hospital beds.The initiative by Gurudwara Saheb, Rotary Club of Poona and Gurudwara Panvel provides oxygen concentrator and oxygen cylinders for home use for free on returnable basis. They have also initiated jumbo oxygen cylinder bank to support hospitals in case of emergency.An ardaas (prayer) was performed attended by joint charity commissioner SM Bokey, Pune Cantonment Board CEO Amit Kumar and members of Rotary Club of Poona and Gurudwara Saheb.“After we launched the service in the city, we received call from Hyderabad and Secunderabad. We immediately dispatched 15 Jumbo, 50 mega and 20 small to gurudwara at Hyderabad and Secunderabad for oxygen support,” said Rotarian Narendra Pal Singh.For locals, there are 25 oxygen cylinders and 20 were provided to needy patients within an hour of launching the service.Kiran Awate, who came to collect an oxygen cylinder, said, “My brother was admitted for one month in the hospital due to Covid. On discharge, the doctor advised him to breathe using oxygen facility. In the market, a new oxygen cylinder cost up to a one lakh and for rent, there are packages starting from ₹25,000 for 15 days. A colleague suggested contacting the gurudwara and I came here to collect the cylinder for free. They gave me the cylinder on trust, for which I am thankful.”Kumar said, “This gurudwara has been offering similar public service since the Covid outbreak last year by supporting migrants, providing medical kits and equipment to hospitals and medical centres, and holding langars.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/gurudwara-at-camp-launches-free-oxygen-langar-sewa-101621428752258.html
19-05-2021||Mumbai||Hospital hides Covid-19 patient's death for money, case filed||A case has been registered against a private hospital in Maharashtra for allegedly taking money in the name of treatment from family members of a Covid-19 patient even after his death, police said on Wednesday.The man died on April 21 while undergoing treatment but his death was announced by the hospital authorities only on April 24 until his family members paid the amount asked by the facility, the official said quoting the FIR.The man was admitted in the hospital and his relatives had paid a deposit of ₹50,000."On April 20, he was shifted to the ICU for further treatment. His wife was told to pay ₹35,000 for injections on April 21. However, she requested more time to arrange the money, following which the hospital asked her to pay by April 24," the official said.The complainant claimed she had paid ₹40,000 in cash and ₹50,000 via online mode to the hospital administration on April 24 morning, as per the FIR."The death of the patient was declared by doctors at noon on April 24," the FIR said.The complainant claimed the hospital, however, mentioned the timing of her husband's death as 11 pm on April 21, in the documents.She alleged the hospital authorities were demanding more money from her and not providing her copies of detailed bills.She also alleged the hospital charged exorbitantly in violation of the government norms.The FIR was registered after the complainant approached a local court."A case has been registered at Shivajinagar police station of Nanded city on Tuesday against doctors and employees of the hospital under various sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) for forgery and cheating," the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/hospital-hides-covid-19-patient-s-death-for-money-case-filed-101621426561290.html
19-05-2021||Jaipur||Black Fungus declared an epidemic in Rajasthan||The Rajasthan government has declared black fungus or mucormycosis an epidemic amid a steep rise in infections among Covid-19 patients, reported news agency ANI on Wednesday. Cases of Black Fungus have been on the rise in the state to tackle which a separate ward has been set up in Sawai Man Singh (SMS) Hospital in Jaipur.Chief minister Ashok Gehlot had expressed concern over the rising number of black fungus cases in Covid patients, and instructed officials to include its treatment in the health insurance scheme at a Covid-19 review meeting on Wednesday.Black fungus has been notified as an epidemic and a notifiable disease in the state under the Rajasthan Epidemic Act 2020, according to a notification issued by principal health secretary Akhil Arora.Arora told PTI that the state is making a coordinated and integrated effort to treat both black fungus and Covid-19.Currently, the state is treating around 100 patients at the designated ward in Sawai Man Singh hospital in the capital. The state has also issued orders to purchase 2,500 vials of amphotericin-B, the drug used to treat Black Fungus. The Centre has so far provided 700 vials of the drug and promised to provide 50,000 more, state health minister Raghu Sharma told reporters on May 17.Minister of state for chemicals and fertilizers Mansukh Mandaviya told reporters on Tuesday that the central government is making efforts to ramp up domestic production of amphotericin-B and bolster imports of the drug from all over the world. He also added that the government has outlined a system for efficient distribution of the necessary drug.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/black-fungus-declared-an-epidemic-in-rajasthan-101621425518142.html
19-05-2021||Chandigarh||GS Bajpai is new V-C of Rajiv Gandhi National University of Law, Patiala||GS Bajpai has been appointed as the vice-chancellor of Rajiv Gandhi National University of Law (RGNUL), Patiala. Punjab and Haryana High Court chief justice Ravi Shanker Jha, who is the RGNUL chancellor, selected Bajpai from a panel of three names suggested by the search committee formed in October 2020. Bajpai will assume charge on Friday for a tenure of five years. Also read: When to take Covid vaccine after recovery? After 3 months, says CentreProfessor of criminology and criminal justice With more than 30 years of professional experience as an author, researcher, teacher and administrator, Bajpai is at present professor of criminology and criminal justice (law); chair professor at KL Arora Chair in Criminal Law at National Law University, Delhi; and chairperson of the Centre for Criminology and Victimology. He has served as the registrar of National Law University, Delhi, between 2014 and 2021. Bajpai is a member secretary of the Committee of Criminal Law Reforms, appointed by the ministry of home affairs. Promoting research to benefit legal system When contacted, Bajpai said that he will focus on making RGNUL a top research institute. “A university can serve in the best way by doing research on policy issues and submit it, which will enable the legal system, administration, and other stakeholders to bring reforms for better results for citizens. My aim is to promote such research that will benefit the legal system, policy makers and public. I will promote student and faculty initiatives in research,” he said. He said faculty development programmes will also be priority to create quality human resource. “We need to train the faculty according to international standards,” Bajpai said. On the task assigned by the Union home ministry, he said that the report of the Committee of Criminal Law Reforms is almost ready and will be submitted soon. “It got delayed because of the Covid lockdown,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/gs-bajpai-is-new-v-c-of-rajiv-gandhi-national-university-of-law-patiala-101621423414483.html
19-05-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan sounds alert for possible desert locust attack in Jaisalmer||Following an advisory by the UN’s Food and Agricultural Organization (FAO), Rajasthan’s Jaisalmer district has sounded an alert for a possible locust attack and directed authorities including the locust control department to plan, coordinate and execute a strategy to repulse it.On May 17, FAO said a few locust bands are likely to form in May in southwest Iran from where they may move east towards Pakistan. “Small adult groups to form in southwest Iran that may be supplemented by groups and small swarms arriving from Arabia, which will move east along the southern coast towards Pakistan,” the advisory said.The desert locust (Schistocerca gregaria) is the most destructive migratory pest in the world. In response to environmental stimuli, dense and highly mobile desert locust swarms can form. They are ravenous eaters who consume their own weight per day by targeting food crops. Just a single square kilometre of swarm can contain up to 80 million adults, with the capacity to consume the same amount of food in one day as 35,000 people.Large swarms pose a major threat to food security and rural livelihoods. FAO has long-standing expertise in monitoring Desert Locust populations and helping countries cope with this devastating crop pest.Following the advisory, Jaisalmer district collector Ashish Modi directed all officials engaged in the locust control operation to ensure highest priority to containment operations. “If any official [is] found negligent or violating order, he will be personally [held] responsible,” he said while asking them to continue following the Covid-19 guidelines during the exercise.Modi said as per FAO advisory, a locust attack in Pakistan at the end of May or in the first week of June was likely. “There are chances that after entering Pakistan, locust groups may further move towards India,’’ he said.In the past two years, more than 10 states, including national capital Delhi have faced locust attacks. Rajasthan too reported the first locust attack in Jaisalmer district on May 21, 2019, after a gap of 26 years. Many other districts of western Rajasthan including Barmer, Jalore, Jodhpur, Bikaner and Ganganagar too bore its brunt. Locusts caused a huge damage to Rabi crops in around 10 lakhs hectares of land in Rajasthan and Gujarat. However, it was contained by the second week of February.On April 11, 2020, the country faced the second locust attack spreading to more than 10 states including Rajasthan, UP, MP, Haryana, Bihar, Gujarat, Uttrakhand, Maharashtra and Chhattisgarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-sounds-alert-for-possible-desert-locust-attack-in-jaisalmer-101621422391830.html
19-05-2021||Patna||Tejashwi Yadav converts his government residence into Covid-19 care centre||Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader Tejashwi Yadav on Wednesday converted his government residence into a Covid-19 care centre.Yadav has set up the centre at 1 polo road in Patna from his private funds. He said that it has all the necessary medical equipment, beds, oxygen and provision for free food.While speaking to ANI he said, "I request the state government to convert all the government residence provided to us into Covid-19 care centres, quarantine centres because people are not getting beds, oxygen and other medical facilities at the government hospitals.""Being a responsible opposition, we want to give our residence to the state government for the people," he added.As per the rules, it has been decided to hand over the Covid centre to the state government. In this regard, he has written a letter to the government asking it to take up the Covid care centre.He added that he has written a letter to Chief Minister Nitish Kumar but has not received any reply."I urge the state government to take over the Covid-19 centre and we are there to help in any way. Just let us know what we can do to help them," he further said.Meanwhile, Bihar reported 6,286 fresh Covid cases and 111 deaths on Tuesday in the past 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/tejashwi-yadav-converts-his-government-residence-into-covid-19-care-centre-101621420456007.html
19-05-2021||Mumbai||Have 3 proposals for supply of Sputnik V vaccine to Mumbai: BMC||Mumbai’s civic body, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), has received proposals from three companies for supplying Russian Sputnik V Covid vaccine, said its commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal in an interview with a news channel on Wednesday. Chahal’s comment comes a day after the civic body extended the deadline for submission of bid to supply 10 million Covid vaccines to the city. The last date for submission of the bid was May 18, but after failing to receive any, the BMC extended the deadline up to May 25.In an interview with Bloomberg TV, Chahal said the BMC estimates to spend about ₹700 crore to buy the shots. “Once we get 15 million vaccine shots, I plan to vaccinate the entire city in the next 60 days and by doing so, I am very sure we will be able to stop the third wave from coming.”Also Read | How Mumbai’s city officials made their city more Covid-ready than DelhiMeanwhile, the three proposals for Sputnik V vaccines have come from a UK-based firm and two companies from India having authorised distributorship of Sputnik. According to BMC officials, their paperwork was incomplete so the companies have been asked to send revised proposals as formal bids.Additional municipal commissioner P Velrasu told HT, “We have received three proposals. All of them are for Sputnik vaccine but have come with incomplete paperwork. So we have given the extension.”According to the BMC’s tender document, any interested supplier or manufacturer can bid for the tender. However, it has restricted China from bidding. Further, the vaccines that do not have Central government’s approval will have to get the same on their own.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/have-3-proposals-for-supply-of-sputnik-v-vaccine-to-mumbai-bmc-101621419857890.html
19-05-2021||Chandigarh||AIIMS nurses back in Bathinda after complaint of poor facilities in Patiala||After 50 male nursing officers of All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Bathinda, exposed the pathetic hostel accommodation allotted to them in Patiala, the Punjab department of medical education and research on Wednesday relieved them of their services and sent them back to their parent institute. The nursing officers from AIIMS, Bathinda, reached Patiala three days ago and were deployed in the Covid wing of the government medical college with Rajindra Hospital. Also read: Delhi Covid-19 cases fall to 3.8K first time after April 5, positivity rate dipsHowever, they found that the college had made poor arrangements for their accommodation. They were put up at the State Physical Education College that has not been maintained. Besides the poor sanitation, the nurses complained of substandard meals in the hostel mess. The nursing officers went on a hunger strike to protest the poor quality of food at the hostel mess, but they kept working in the isolation isolation wards of the hospital. Mukesh Kumar, a nursing officer, said: “Fans were not working in a room where four nurses were asked to stay together. Washrooms were not in a working condition as fittings were broken.” The staff claimed that senior officials from the medical college and district administration assured them of resolving the matter soon. “Despite such deplorable conditions, we continued working in the Covid wards. However, on Wednesday, we were asked to leave the medical college and rejoin AIIMS, Bathinda,” the staffer said. Medical college principal Dr Rajan Singla said talks were held with the nursing staff and they were assured that the issue will be looked into, but they continued to protest. “The matter was taken up with secretary-level officials of the department. It was decided to relieve them from their services,” Dr Singla said. He added that they have informed the authorities that the medical college is available with ample nursing staff, which can take over responsibilities of the male nursing staff.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/aiims-nurses-back-in-bathinda-after-complaint-of-poor-facilities-in-patiala-101621419618714.html
19-05-2021||Patna||Bihar family forced to carry body for cremation on garbage cart; 3 sacked||A family in Bihar’s Nalanda district was forced to use a garbage cart to carry their family member to the crematorium who died of coronavirus disease. The heart-wrenching video of their journey to the cremation ground has provoked local authorities to sack three municipal employees for dereliction of duty.Officials in state capital Patna also stepped in, issuing fresh instructions to municipal bodies to emphasise that it was their responsibility to give people who lose their lives to Covid-19 a dignified funeral at state expense. Ashok Kishore, secretary of urban development and housing department, also directed officials to circulate a phone number that people can dial for help.The latest video from Nalanda, one of the widely-circulated clips that reveal how grieving families that lost a member to Covid-19 had a torturous time trying to arrange for their last rites, shows two persons wearing personal protection equipment pulling the cart through Malliksarai village in Islampur block, about 70 km from Nalanda district headquarters, on May 15. Three more people carried the wood on another cart.Local residents said the dead man, Shankar Choudhary, had died due to coronavirus at home. His wife pleaded with the panchayat officials for a vehicle to take her husband to the crematorium. Her neighbours too shut their doors on her after they learnt that Shankar Choudhary died of Covid-19. Finally, the family used the hand cart; they couldn’t afford anything else.It was a garbage cart, said Jaglal Choudhary, who described himself as a distant relative of the dead man. He said since there was no one to helo, the family covered him with a piece of cloth and took the body on this cart to the cremation ground for his final rites.Hilsa sub-divisional officer Radhakant said the administration formed a three-member committee of additional SDO Shashank Raj, executive officer Navin Kumar and circle officer Ajay Kumar to probe the incident. It turned out that the employees gave the family the garbage cart to carry the body. Nalanda district magistrate Yogendra Kumar, has ordered dismissal of the three sweepers for dereliction of duty.This wasn’t the first such incident in the district.On Monday, the Nalanda police filed a First Information Report against six people including ward councilor and employees of Biharsharif Municipal Corporation under the Epidemic diseases act on charges that they extorted money for cremation of people who died due to Covid. Municipal commissioner Anshul Agarwal has terminated ward jamadar, sweepers and suspended the sanitary inspector when a fact-finding team found that they had carried the body in a garbage cart to the crematorium in Sohsarai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-family-forced-to-carry-body-for-cremation-on-garbage-cart-3-sacked-101621418899467.html
19-05-2021||Delhi||Don’t let your guard down, even if Covid-19 pandemic wanes: Delhi LG tells Kejriwal government||The Lieutenant Governor (L-G) of Delhi Anil Baijal on Wednesday said that the Delhi government should not let its guard down despite the improving Covid-19 situation in the national capital. He also stressed that measures and preparedness to deal with any eventuality should be fully undertaken.The remarks were made during a meeting to review the management of Covid-19 situation in the national capital along with chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, deputy CM Manish Sisodia and other government officials such as the commissioners of Municipal Corporation of Delhi (MCD) and senior officials from the Delhi Police, a statement from the LG’s office confirmed.“It was felt that a regular monitoring and status update of distribution of free ration and money disbursal to labourers under the schemes announced at the beginning of the lockdown will ensure their effective delivery to the beneficiaries in need,” the statement said.Also read | Singapore calls in Indian envoy, objects to Delhi CM’s comment on new Covid strainHe also asked the government to ensure that distributors and retailers of essential drugs and equipment related to fighting the Covid-19 are made to mandatorily display their stocks and prices.During the meeting, the Baijal also said that the number of Covid-19 tests, especially the RT-PCR tests, carried out in the city should not fall. He also highlighted that due to the existing lockdown, the number of Rapid Antigen Tests (RAT) carried out in Delhi has “naturally gone down.”Briefing on other measures, the L-G urged the government to ensure the availability of drugs to treat the emerging black fungus (Mucormycosis) disease. He also asked the state government to take necessary steps for the availability of the Defence Research and Development Organisation’s new Covid-19 drug for patients in need.He also instructed the officials to formulate “monitorable and compressed timelines” for establishing oxygen plants in hospitals and other related infrastructure to deal with similar situations in the future.Watch | Modi govt Vs Kejriwal govt over ‘Singapore strain’ of Covid l Who said whatMeanwhile, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal tweeted that a special task force would be created in Delhi to protect children from the third wave of Covid-19. “If the third wave of Corona comes, then we have to be prepared in advance to fight it, today in a meeting with the officials, took some important decisions- 1. To create special task force to protect children from the third wave. 2. Adequate beds, oxygen and better management of essential medicines,” he tweeted.Delhi, which has been battered in the ongoing second wave of the pandemic, has been witnessing a declining trend in its daily new infections. On Monday, the national capital reported 4,482 new cases of the coronavirus infection and 265 related fatalities. The positivity rate has significantly dropped to 6.89% from 8.42% on Monday, when the city had logged 4,524 cases, the lowest since April 5. So far, 1,402,873 people have tested positive and 22,111 patients have succumbed to the disease in Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/dont-let-your-guard-down-even-if-covid-19-pandemic-wanes-delhi-lg-tells-kejriwal-government-101621417903331.html
19-05-2021||Other||Covid positivity rate rises by 22% in Himachal in 7 weeks||The Covid positivity rate in Himachal Pradesh has risen by 22% in the past seven weeks. The hill state recorded its highest positivity rate of 28.9% in the week that ended on May 16. That’s the highest since the coronavirus outbreak in March last year. It was 7% in the March 29 to April 4 week, while in February, the positivity rate was as low as 0.67%. Positivity rate is the percentage of positive samples per 100 tests. Also read: Delhi CM does not speak for India, says Jaishankar, Sisodia responds with a barbNational Health Mission state director Dr Nipun Jindal said of the 99,807 tests conducted last week, 28,817 samples were found positive. As Covid-19 cases started rising from February-end, Dr Jindal said, the positivity rate also went up. By March-end, it was 3% and steadily rose after that. “It was 20% between April 26 and May 2 and 26.3% from May 3-9),” he said, adding this was when the second wave was sweeping the state. Positivity rate higher in border districts Dr Jindal said the positivity rate is high in the state’s districts bordering Punjab and Haryana. This is due to the high infection rate as the movement and activities in these regions are more than in the other districts. Kangra, the worst-hit district recorded the highest positivity rate of 38.1%, followed by 37.2% in Sirmaur and 33% in Solan. Six of the 12 districts have a positivity rate of above 30%. Mandi has a positivity rate of 31.9%, Hamirpur 31.5% and Shimla 30.5%. At 8.6%, Lahaul-Spiti is the only district with a positivity rate below 10%, while Chamba and Kinnaur have it below 20%. Bilaspur, Kullu and Una’s positivity rate is below 30%. Testing increased in Kangra Kangra chief medical officer Dr Gurdarshan Gupta said Kangra conducted 22,824 tests last week of which 8,686 samples tested positive. “The high number of tests and relatively high number of cases has pushed up the district’s positivity rate,” said Dr Gupta. Overall, since the outbreak, the district’s positivity rate has been 8.8%. Dr Jindal said the test, trace, isolate and treat is the strategy to combat the Covid-19. The state has ramped up testing by introducing mobile testing facility. He said this week the state is recording a dip in infections and if the trend continues, the peak would be over. Kangra deputy commissioner Rakesh Kumar Prajapati said given the spread of virus, stricter curbs have been introduced in the district. Apart from curfew on week days, there is a complete lockdown in the district on weekends. “We are also conducting the highest number of tests in the state and hence the infection rate is high,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid-positivity-rate-rises-by-22-in-himachal-in-7-weeks-101621417577786.html
19-05-2021||Jaipur||Social media songs, videos, memes woo Rajasthan tribals for Covid vaccination||Across the tribal belt of southern Rajasthan, the district administrations are relying on memes, posters, and catchy songs produced in the local Wagdi language to dispel vaccine hesitancy and Covid-19 myths.Officials in Banswara and Dungarpur said that it was important to weave Covid-19 awareness into tribal culture through storytelling because a myth was spreading that different vaccines were used for people in cities and villages.District collector, Dungarpur, Suresh Kumar Ola said the administration roped in several Wagdi social content creators and YouTubers to push as much Covid-19 information as possible. “I contacted all content creators with 1 lakh viewers, their videos and posts are getting scores of viewers every day now,” he said.Local booth level officers (BLOs), block development officers (BDOs) and Sarpanchs forwarded messages in Wagdi that requested people in local phrases to visit vaccination centers. “So far, we have inoculated a significant percentage of elderly citizens through online messaging,” he said.Messages like “Kaka Jaju, Kaki Jaju, vaccination Karvi Avju” (Kaka and Kaki please come for the vaccination) have gone viral.Another message, “Avigyo Tiko Korona No, Jaldi Jaldi Ladado Re,” (Corona vaccination is here, get the jab soon).Bharat Kumar, a native of Sagwara in Dungarpur district said that Wagdi, also known as Vaghri, is spoken across several tribal-dominated villages of southern Rajasthan.“I am presently living in Udaipur, yet I receive WhatsApp messages in Wagdi about the pandemic and vaccination. They have also made some really hilarious memes,” he said, adding that some of the prominent names on YouTube also regularly make shows on covid-19.According to Ola, the social media campaign has now reached far away areas.District collector, Banswara, Ankit Kumar Singh said his social media group now reaches out to 2 Lakh people. “We decided that the best way to remove hesitancy was to speak to local leaders and Sarpanches and get them vaccinated. When their photos receiving vaccination went viral, a lot of people came forward,” he said, adding that new social media messaging is now being also used to spread the latest information on Covid-19.A senior police official posted in Dungarpur said there was a growing fear amongst tribal villages that vaccination may lead to impotency, but many of those rumours have largely subsided.“Tribal areas rely heavily on Bhopas (quacks) and chieftains, they don’t like outsiders, therefore, these social media campaigns in their own language felt like they were personally and respectfully addressed,” the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/social-media-songs-videos-memes-woo-rajasthan-tribals-for-covid-vaccination-101621416437749.html
19-05-2021||Indore||84-year-old sent alone in taxi from Indore to Mumbai, daughter-in-law blamed||At a time when people across the world are spreading messages to help those suffering from the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), a case in Indore has shamed humanity.An 84-year-old Covid positive patient was sent to Mumbai from Indore - all alone in a taxi - after he was forcibly discharged from the hospital. The family members of the patient, Ashok Chaturvedi, have accused his daughter-in-law Dipika of carrying out this inhuman act. They further say that Dipika did this to usurp the money of their father."He was admitted to a hospital and was getting treated for the coronavirus disease. Dipika sent him to Mumbai in this condition, without telling any of us. He is all alone, and not even tested negative for Covid-19," said the 84-year-old's younger daughter Jaya Chaturvedi.His elder daughter Jyoti lives in Mumbai and had to run from pillar to post to get the registration number of the taxi he was sent in saying Dipika has severed all channels of communication with them. She is still waiting for her father's arrival.The daughters claims that Ashok Chaturvedi was taken from his native place Ghazipur in Uttar Pradesh to Indore by the daughter-in-law without their consent. They last visited their father late in January and the issue was discussed. Both Jyoti and Jaya say that Dipika reached Ghazipur after they left and persuaded him to come with her to Indore where he was mistreated.After reaching Indore, he got sick and after much pressure, the octogenarian was admitted to Noble Hospital, said Jaya. "Dipika got him discharged within three days without even my father receiving proper care. He later tested Covid-positive and we had to intervene to get him admitted to Mahatma Gandhi Hospital," she said."An 84-year-old man is now sent all alone in a taxi from Indore to Mumbai travelling for 16 hours being Covid positive without informing anybody from the family," added Jaya.Both the daughters allege that all the money of their father has been usurped by Dipika, and they don't know where and how it has been used. They have also accused Dipika's mother Sneh Chaturvedi and sister Ritika of being aware of everything and helping her carry out this crime.They have now decided to approach the police for appropriate action.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/indore-news/84yearold-sent-alone-in-taxi-from-indore-to-mumbai-daughter-in-law-blamed-101621412600080.html
19-05-2021||Jaipur||BJP’s Gotam Lal Meena dies, 4th Rajasthan MLA to lose to Covid-19||Gotam Lal Meena, BJP MLA from south Rajasthan’s Dhariawad constituency, died at MB Hospital in Udaipur on Wednesday due to coronavirus infection. The 57-year-old legislator was admitted to hospital on Sunday but his condition deteriorated. He died on Wednesday morning, his family said.The three-time lawmaker is survived by his wife and four sons.Meena is the fourth MLA in Rajasthan to die of Covid-19. Congress MLA Kailash Trivedi, 65, was the first to lose the battle against Covid in October last. In November, BJP’s Kiran Maheshwari, 59, lost her life and in January this year, the infection claimed the life of Congress MLA Gajendra Shaktawat, 47.Chief minister Ashok Gehlot, assembly speaker CP Joshi, BJP state president Satish Poonia and other leaders condoled the death.“The information about the untimely demise of BJP MLA from Dhariawad Gotam Lal Meena is very sad,” Gehlot said.Former chief minister Vasundhara Raje recalled that Meena had served his constituency selflessly and honestly and described his death as a “personal loss”.BJP leader and leader of opposition Gulabchand Kataria also condoled his death, pointing that the lawmaker’s condition deteriorated over the last two days when he was moved to ventilator support. Kataria recalled how the Dhariawad MLA would always raise issues close to the poor and deprived sections of society.Meena’s death brings down the strength of the Rajasthan assembly to 198.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/bjps-gotam-lal-meena-dies-4th-rajasthan-mla-to-lose-to-covid19-101621412837097.html
19-05-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan BJP MLA Gotam Lal Meena dies due to Covid-19||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MLA from Dhariawad constituency in Rajasthan’s Pratapgarh district, Gotam lal Meena, died due to Covid-19 infection at Udaipur’s MB Hospital on Wednesday. A three time MLA, Meena was 57-years old and he left a wife and four sons behind.Meena was hospitalised on May 16 when his condition deteriorated. He breathed his last on May 19.Corona infection has claimed the lives of four sitting MLAs in Rajasthan.Earlier, Congress MLAs Kailash Trivedi and Gajendra Shaktawat and BJP MLA Kiran Maheshwari died due to the infection.Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot, assembly speaker CP Joshi, BJP state president Satish Poonia and other leaders condoled Meena’s death.“The untimely demise of BJP MLA from Dhariawad Gotam Lal Meena is very sad,” Gehlot said. He said he was praying for the peace of the departed soul.Former CM Vasundhara Raje tweeted that Meena’s demise was a personal loss for her. She said he served his constituency “selflessly and honestly”.“His condition deteriorated in [the] last two days and he was [put] on ventilator support,” leader of opposition Gulabchand Kataria said while expressing grief on Meena’s death. Kataria said Meena always used to raise issues concerning the poor, especially those in the tribal areas.With Meena’s death, the number of MLAs in the Rajasthan assembly has dropped to 198 from 200 this year. Vallabhnagar constituency fell vacant earlier in January after the death of Congress MLA Gajendra Shaktawat. The seats falling vacant after the death of MLAs Kailash Trivedi and Kiran Maheshwari were filled in May after the April bypolls.Rajasthan recorded 8,398 Covid-19 positive cases and 146 deaths on Tuesday, taking the infection tally to 879,664 and the death toll to 7,080. Jaipur reported the highest number of 35 deaths, followed by 12 each in Jodhpur and Bikaner, according to an official report. Udaipur and Bikaner reported 11 deaths each.Chief minister Ashok Gehlot has asked officials to strengthen Covid treatment facilities on a war footing including at the community and primary health centres (PHC) levels. The CM instructed officials to complete the work of setting up oxygen generation plants and infant intensive care units in the model CHC in a time-bound manner, according to a government release. State health secretary Siddharth Mahajan said there was a decrease in the number of active cases for the last few days and it had come down to around 1.59 lakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-bjp-mla-gotam-lal-meena-dies-due-to-covid19-101621412777319.html
19-05-2021||Patna||Bihar: Priority vaccination, frontline worker status sought for street vendors||Over 90% of street vendors in Bihar, especially in rural areas, are left out of the Covid vaccination drive since they lack the resources or training to register online for receiving the vaccine, says the Bihar chapter of National Association of Street Vendors of India (NASVI).An official of the association says a majority of these street vendors are neither technology savvy nor aware of the registration process and several others don’t have smartphones. Any person seeking to get vaccinated has to first register and get an appointment on the CoWIN web portal. The internet-enabled process has been held to be exclusionary for the disadvantaged social groups. Chhattisgarh high court recently asked the state governments to set up special help desks to ensure rural and poor people are able to register for Covid vaccine without internet, mobiles or computers.Bihar has around 2.5 lakh registered street vendors according to an estimate by the vendors’ association. Around 25,000 of these street vendors are located in Patna, of which 18,000 have been identified by the NASVI.“They have been the basic service providers... throughout the pandemic. But a majority of them have remained deprived of the vaccination facility,” Rakesh Tripathi, state coordinator of the NASVI, said.The state government was requested last week to declare street vendors as frontline workers during the Covid pandemic, enabling special arrangement for their vaccination. “We have been told that our request has been forwarded to the department concerned,” Sangita Singh, the NASVI president said.Dr Chandrashekhar, a senior physician said there was merit in the demand to vaccinate street vendors on priority. “During lockdown people are totally dependent upon them and are in regular touch with them. They should be vaccinated on priority basis to keep a vast population of the society free from the threats of infections,” he said.Tripathi said special camps could be planned to vaccinate street vendors in colonies and communities with the help of vending committees of the municipal corporation.Sanjeev Pandey, state coordinator of the National Urban Livelihood Mission, said there were 1.66 lakh identified street vendors with identity cards issued by NULM. “The NULM has hardly any say in this programme,”Pandey said and added, if any new guideline is issued in this connection, it will be followed.Recently the state government told Patna high court that it had been allocated over 10.45 lakh doses of Covid vaccine for the age group of 45 years and above and these vaccines will arrive in the state between May 21 and June 1.Maharashtra, Rajasthan,Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat, West Bengal, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Bihar, Kerala and Andhra Pradesh account for 66.70 per cent of the cumulative doses given so far in the country, the Union health ministry had said a few days ago.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-priority-vaccination-frontline-worker-status-sought-for-street-vendors-101621409597602.html
19-05-2021||Other||Rat nibbles newborn’s feet and toes; two terminated in MP||A rat allegedly nibbled at a 19-day-old premature baby’s feet and toes at a hospital in Madhya Pradesh’s Indore, prompting authorities to order a probe, suspend a nurse for negligence, and sack two sanitation workers.“A nurse...has been suspended for negligence of duty and two sanitation workers have been terminated for failing to maintain cleanliness at the hospital,” said the hospital’s superintendent, PS Thakur.Also Read | ‘Corona curfew’ extended in many districts across Madhya PradeshThe baby’s mother had gone to feed the new-born when she noticed the baby’s feet and toes were bleeding on Tuesday. “I informed the nursing staff. The nursing staff cleaned the toes and feet and put a bandage on them. A toe of the baby has completely eaten by rats,” said Kishan Dahima, the baby’s father.Thakur said the baby was being treated for the injuries and his condition is stable now. He added a three-member committee has been formed to probe into the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/rat-nibbles-newborn-s-feet-and-toes-two-terminated-in-mp-101621409177081.html
19-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi high court refuses to stay Covaxin clinical trial on children aged 2-18, issues notice to DCGI||The Delhi high court on Wednesday refused to grant an interim stay on the clinical trial of Covaxin in children in the age group of 2 to 18 years. The court, however, issued notices to the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) and others on a plea challenging the DCGI’s nod to Bharat Biotech for conducting clinical trials of Covaxin in children.The DCGI on May 13 gave permission for the vaccine, developed by Bharat Biotech and the Indian Council of Medical Research, to be used in Phase 2 and Phase 3 trials in people below the age of 18 -- the first such trials that will begin in India.A bench of Chief Justice DN Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh issued notice on a Public Interest Litigation (PIL) filed by Sanjeev Kumar seeking direction to quash the order passed on May 13, giving permission to Bharat Biotech for conducting clinical trials in children aged 2-18. The ministry of women and child development has also been made a party to the proceedings.In his plea, the petitioner in person Kumar stated that the order for trial rests on the implication that children are signing up as ‘volunteers’, but the term itself means "a person who freely offers to do something", which children who cannot read or understand a contract are incapable of doing, thus prima facie unlawful, arbitrary and against the settled principles of law and natural justice."A person can offer to do anything only if he/she is capable of understanding the consequences of his/her act. In the present case, the subject matter of clinical trials being minors (even toddlers who - for the reason of their age only - are not capable of even speaking and understanding languages in a proper manner) cannot be supposed to volunteer for the aforesaid clinical testing," the petition states.The petitioner states that since the children who will be a part of the trial will be healthy their parents cannot give consent for the trials to be conducted since that would endanger the life of minors.The plea also drives a separation between parents consenting to life saving surgeries or other medical procedures on their children's behalf since that is in “purpose of saving the life” of minors.Kumar seeks invocation of Section 81 of Juvenile Justice Act, 2015, for penalizing parents who volunteer their children in hopes of monetary compensation.The petitioner also sought directions to the respondents to produce details of all the 525 children who will be enrolled in the trial.The matter would be heard on July 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-high-court-refuses-to-stay-covaxin-clinical-trial-in-children-aged-2-18-issues-notice-to-dcgi-101621407581611.html
19-05-2021||Patna||Bihar looks to turn migrants’ return into opportunity to complete PMAY homes||Bihar is looking to migrant workers’ return to the state amid the current wave of Covid-19 pandemic as an opportunity to finish at least 40,000 Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana- Gramin (PMAY-G) homes allotted to the workforce in the last few years. “All the districts have a list of migrant workers who were allotted funds under PMAY(G) in the last few years. But these units have not been completed for various reasons including the long absence of the beneficiaries from the state,” said a senior RDD official engaged in implementation of the housing scheme. He said all deputy development commissioners (DDCs) in the state were instructed to get the work finished this time.PMAY-G is the rural development ministry’s flagship scheme, which helps homeless poor families and those living in kutcha houses with less than two rooms, to construct a pucca house in a minimum of 25 square metres area. For Maoist areas, the government’s assistance is ₹1.3 lakh per house while for non-Maoist areas, it is Rs. 1.2 lakh, which is paid in three instalments. In addition, ₹30,000 is paid to the beneficiaries to meet the cost of engaging workers for construction under Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA). PM Narendra Modi pointed out last September that PMAY homes were built more efficiently during the first wave of coronavirus with 18 lakh houses constructed across the country during the pandemic. He listed migrant workers’ return to their homes as a big factor behind construction finishing in 45-60 days, compared to the previous average of 125 days.Bihar’s principal secretary of the rural development department, Arvind Chaudhary said a large number of unfinished units, especially those sanctioned to migrant workers, were at least 50% complete. “These units could be finished in the coming months by migrant beneficiaries as they are now staying in the state,” he said. However, the lockdown in the state, following the resurgence of Covid cases since April, has slowed down the construction of the low cost units in rural areas, officials said. This has already impacted the target of completing over 6 lakh unfinished units under Mission Completion drive, launched in January this year. “Construction material and workers are not easily available due to the restrictions [during the current lockdown]. We had set a target of completing 6 lakh pending units by May or June. But that looks unachievable now and could be moved to the end of this year,” said a rural development department official. In Bihar, a total of 2.6m PMAY homes were sanctioned, of which, around 1m units were in different stages of completion. The Mission Completion drive targeted completion of 490,000 unfinished units in three months’ time, however, only 4.20 lakh units were completed by March 30, the official added. RDD principal secretary hopes the pace of work would gain momentum once the restrictions are eased up after Covid cases decline. “We are hopeful that by September we will complete all unfinished units. In the past few months, we have completed one lakh units/month on an average. We will accelerate it now,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-looks-to-turn-migrants-return-into-opportunity-to-complete-pmay-homes-101621406596862.html
19-05-2021||Chandigarh||Seven children orphaned due to Covid in Himachal: CM||Seven children have been orphaned due to the Covid-19 pandemic in Himachal Pradesh and the state government will take care of them, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur has announced. Thakur said in Shimla on Tuesday that the state government will provide ₹2,500 every month as financial assistance for the maintenance of each such child living with extended families till the age of 18 years. Also read: Govt lays out procedure to rehabilitate children who lost parents to CovidAll seven children orphaned due to Covid-19 in the state are living with their extended families. He said the government had approached their guardians, but they refused to send the children to childcare institutions. “Directions have been issued to field officers to initiate action immediately for placing them under foster care and provide ₹2,500 monthly assistance to each,” Thakur said. Grant for kids to continue online education The chief minister said the government recently took steps for the care and protection of children amid the pandemic. Children enrolled in childcare institutions, who have been temporarily restored to their families due to the closure of schools amid the pandemic, will be provided ₹2,000 a month to enable them to continue their online education. At present, 598 children are being benefitted under this scheme. He said oximeters, thermometers and thermal scanners have been provided to all childcare institutions and employees working in these institutions have been declared frontline workers for vaccination. Under the Mother Teresa Asahay Maitri Sambal Yojana, an annual assistance of ₹6,000 a child is being provided to widows for the maintenance of two children up to the age of 18 years. Families whose annual income does not exceed ₹35,000 are covered under this scheme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/seven-children-orphaned-due-to-covid-in-himachal-cm-101621404736855.html
19-05-2021||Other||Stigma a major hurdle to Covid-19 containment in rural Bihar||Rehana Khatoon, 60, a resident of Bhabhata village in Bihar’s West Champaran, developed a fever on May 6. She was given medicines after consulting a local doctor, but she collapsed and died as her oxygen levels plummeted drastically two days later. On the same day, Khatoon’s neighbour Rafique Ahmad, 70, died after complaining of breathlessness, fever and coughing. Radha Saha, 69, another resident of the village, died earlier on May 5 after showing similar symptoms.A medical team, which was rushed to the village, detected four Covid cases in Kahtoon’s family and one in Ahmad’s. Navin Prasad, the village head, said 12 people, including two children, have died after showing symptoms of Covid-19 over a fortnight and yet residents of Bhabhata remained averse to testing because of social stigma.“After the medical team detected eight people as Covid-19 positive... and [they] were home quarantined, villagers, even with the symptoms, have refused to undergo the medical investigation.” Another medical team that was sent to nearby Narkatiaganj also received a poor response. “Even the family members of some of those who have died got angry and refused to go for testing on one pretext or other. As a result, just 50 people could be tested during our two visits,” said Ravi Shankar Singh, a health official.Many residents of other neighbouring villages said they have had no access to vaccines and testing. “No camp has ever organised in our village to administer vaccines,” said Maqsood Alam, a resident.Ezaj Ahmad, another resident, said they do not know where to go for vaccination.Also Read | India’s Covid-19 hot spots on recovery road: DataBrij Ram, a resident of Harpur village, said he will not get vaccinated citing the “harms”. Many of Ram’s neighbours echoed his concerns about the vaccination.Sub-divisional magistrate Sahila Heer said there has been a poor response to testing in some pockets of Narkatiaganj subdivision, where these villages are located. “We have sent testing team twice to Manuwa Parsi [Panchayat]. But very few people turned up for Covid testing. ...we are administering [vaccines] nearly 100% as per the availability of the doses. But then, the villagers must come to vaccination centres for vaccination,” said Heer.West Champaran has so far reported 1,6711 Covid-19 cases so far. “We are compiling the records of the testing block-wise,” said Arun Kumar Sinha, another health department official. He added it will as such be difficult to say how many tests have been conducted in rural areas.District magistrate Kundan Kumar said they have adopted a two-pronged strategy including door-to-door surveys. “While doctors at control rooms are taking stock of patients over the phone, 1,428 teams visited 12,780 and 17,460 houses on May 16 and 17 to trace people with Covid-19 symptoms.” He added two mobile testing teams are also conducting testing in the containment zones.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/stigma-a-major-hurdle-to-covid-19-containment-in-rural-bihar-101621399216443.html
19-05-2021||Delhi||Cloudy day ahead for Delhi; heavy rains also likely today||The national Capital is likely to see a cloudy sky on Wednesday with the possibility of heavy rain, as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast. The minimum temperature on Wednesday is likely to be at 23 degrees Celsius (°C) while the maximum temperature is predicted to reach 30°C. The minimum temperature on Tuesday was 26.8°C, normal for the season’s average, and the maximum temperature was recorded 30.8°C, nine notches below the season’s average. Also Read |  ₹50,000 for Delhi families struck by Covid deaths: CM KejriwalMeanwhile, Delhi’s air quality improved to satisfactory category on Wednesday morning. Data from the Central Pollution Control Board showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 7am stood at 84. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered good, 51 and 100 satisfactory, 101 and 200 moderate, 201 and 300 poor, 301 and 400 very poor, and 401 and 500 severe. On Tuesday, the Union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (Safar) said, “Surface winds are south southwesterly and moderate. Thunderstorms with gusty winds are likely at isolated places with isolated dust peaks for shorter time period. Overall AQI is forecasted to marginally improve and stay in the low end of moderate to satisfactory for next two days.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/cloudy-day-ahead-for-delhi-heavy-rains-also-likely-today-101621392796181.html
19-05-2021||Kolkata||Former Bengal chief minister Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee, wife infected by Covid-19||Former West Bengal chief minister Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee, 77, and his wife Mira Bhattacharjee tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday evening. While Bhattacharjee was being treated for the infection at home, his wife was admitted to a private hospital in south Kolkata in the night since she had breathing problems, said Communist Party of India (Marxist) party members, who were monitoring the situation. Doctors wanted to shift the former chief minister to a hospital but since he insisted on staying at home, some necessary medical equipment was brought to his residence. Bhattacharjee, one of the senior leaders of the CPI (M), has been suffering from Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD) for more than a decade. CPI (M) members said the medical attendant, who used to look after the ailing former chief minister at the latter’s two-room government quarter in south Kolkata, also tested positive but his condition was not serious. In October last year, Bhattacharjee was admitted in the same private hospital for six days. He was admitted in critical condition with symptoms such as breathlessness and low oxygen in blood and was put on ventilation. However, Bhattacharjee’s condition improved very fast, said doctors who attended on the veteran Marxist. A 13-member medical board was formed for his treatment. Bhattacharya tested negative for Covid-19 at that time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/former-bengal-chief-minister-buddhadeb-bhattacharjee-wife-infected-by-covid19-101621391836437.html
19-05-2021||Delhi||₹50,000 for Delhi families struck by Covid deaths: CM Kejriwal||The Delhi government will provide cash relief of ₹50,000 for the families of people who died of Covid-19 in the Capital, and free education and a monthly payment of ₹2,500 for children who lost their parents to the disease, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Tuesday, announcing a series of measures to help mitigate the economic toll of the pandemic.A monthly pension of ₹2,500 will also be paid to the families that lost their only earning members, the CM said, while also announcing that the poor, who do not have ration cards at present and need subsidised food grains, will be entitled to get them.“Common people have been facing a lot of difficulties because of the pandemic. Many of them have lost their loved ones. Several children have lost their parents. Several elderly people have lost their children on whom they were dependent. We cannot replace these lives or reduce their grief. We are only trying to help them, for which we have four announcements,” Kejriwal said at an online briefing.He added the relief measures await a formal Cabinet approval and can be notified for implementation only after that.“First, Delhi has a large number of people who are poor but still do not have ration cards. They too will be eligible for free ration being distributed by the Delhi government.”He said people won’t have to show income certificates to avail ration.“Second, families who lost relatives because of Covid-19 will get ₹50,000 ex gratia.“Third, families which have lost their breadwinners to Covid-19 will be entitled to an ex gratia pension of ₹2,500 per month over and above the ₹50,000 ex gratia.”Kejriwal said the money will be credited to the accounts of the spouses in cases where those who have died were married and that of parents of those who were unmarried.“Fourth announcement is for children who have been orphaned. It includes those who lost both parents to Covid-19 as well as children who lost their only surviving parent to Covid-19. Such children will be entitled to ex gratia assistance of ₹2,500 per month till the age of 25 and their education will be free – taken care of by the government.”Kejriwal said his ministers have been discussing the measures for the last few days and the finance management to enable these schemes.“People must be wondering where the money will come from. Six years ago, you voted for an honest government. With our anti-corruption model and efficient management of resources, we have saved money on many fronts. We have drawn a proper model considering all aspects where money can be saved. All our ministers have been working on it over the last few days,” he said.The National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) and Delhi Commission for Protection of Child Rights (DCPCR) have taken note of social media posts with adoption requests for children who have lost their parents in the current surge. The DCPCR has launched a helpline and has begun compiling data on how many children may have been orphaned.The ruling Aam Aadmi Party’s rivals questioned the government’s initiative. “Last year, the Delhi government had announced ₹1 crore compensation for health workers and front line workers who died of Covid-19. An order was issued with regard to this. However, families of large number of health care workers, sanitation workers, security personnel and government officials are still to receive the compensation amount,” said Delhi Congress vice president Mudit Agarwal. “Before making such big announcements today, CM Arvind Kejriwal should have resolved the old issues. Now that he has announced compensation for all Covid-19 deaths, he must keep his promise and ensure that the compensations are cleared in priority,” he added.Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said: “There is a big difference in making big announcements and ensuring that they are implemented. Mr Kejriwal does not have a good track record in this regard. He must ensure that the financial assistance reach families who lost their support system because of Covid-19.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/rs-50-000-for-delhi-families-struck-by-covid-deaths-cm-kejriwal-101621391141953.html
19-05-2021||Delhi||Court denies pre-arrest bail for on-the-run Olympics hero Sushil Kumar||A Delhi court on Tuesday dismissed a pre-arrest bail plea by wrestler and two-time Olympic medallist Sushil Kumar in a case involving the murder of another wrestler at the Chhatrasal Stadium in the Capital, observing that he is prima facie the “main conspirator” and that the allegations against him are “serious in nature”.“The investigation is still going on and some of the accused persons have not been arrested so far. The NBW (non-bailable warrant) has already been issued against the accused,” additional sessions judge Jadgish Kumar said, while denying relief to Sushil Kumar.The Rajiv Gandhi Khel Ratna award winner has been booked for murder, abduction and criminal conspiracy in the murder of wrestler Sagar Rana, 23, a former national junior wrestling champion.The police claim that Rana and two of his friends -- Sonu, who only goes by his first name, and Amit Kumar -- were allegedly assaulted by Sushil Kumar and other wrestlers on the night of May 4. While Rana died the following day, his friends were injured. It is believed that Rana himself was abducted from his residence in Model Town and brought to the stadium. A clash between the two groups followed, and Rana was beaten up. There have been reports that suggest that Rana was targeted for bad-mouthing Kumar and that shots were fired during the clash.Kumar has been absconding since and the Delhi Police has announced a cash reward of R1 lakh for any information that leads to his arrest. It is believed he may have left Delhi for Haridwar and then Rishikesh.Senior advocate Sidharth Luthra, representing the accused, told the court that Sonu, present during the brawl, is a history sheeter and is a member of a gang headed by Kala Jatheria.Sandeep alias Kala Jatheri is an alleged gangster from Haryana’s Sonepat. Jatheri had escaped from the custody of the Haryana Police in Faridabad after his seven accomplices waylaid the prison van in which Jatheri was being escorted from Faridabad court to Bhondsi jail on February 1 last year. “These people, who I am up against, are criminal-minded people and I will suffer at their hands,” Luthra told the court on behalf of Sushil Kumar. In his plea, Kumar claimed that the investigation against him is biased.Luthra also said Kumar has no connection with the alleged firing. The lawyer added that Kumar is willing to join the investigation.Additional public prosecutor Atul Srivastava, appearing for the police, said that there is electronic evidence showing Kumar assaulting the deceased with a stick.He also said that his passport has been taken away by the police with an apprehension that he may flee the country.Inspector Dinesh Kumar submitted that Sushil Kumar’s custodial interrogation is required to unearth the conspiracy.“He is the main accused in the whole incident who has played a key role in the commission of offence. Data retrieved by FSL (forensic science laboratory) experts confirms his active role in commission of crime,” the officer told the court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/court-denies-pre-arrest-bail-for-on-the-run-olympics-hero-sushil-kumar-101621391257185.html
19-05-2021||Kolkata||Narada sting case: Bail stayed, 2 TMC ministers spend night in jail||West Bengal ministers Firhad Hakim and Subrata Mukherjee spent Tuesday night in Kolkata’s Presidency Correctional Home, while legislator Madan Mitra and former mayor Sovan Chatterjee were hospitalised as they complained of illness after the Calcutta high court stayed the bail of the four.The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Monday arrested the four under the Indian Penal Code’s Section 120b (criminal conspiracy) and the Prevention of Corruption Act in connection with the 2016 Narada sting operation before a special court granted them bail. The case pertains to online news portal Narada News’s two-year-long sting operation. The videos of the operation were uploaded months ahead of the 2016 assembly elections and purportedly showed TMC leaders accepting money in exchange for alleged favours to a fictitious company.Mitra and Chatterjee were hospitalised around 4am on Tuesday. Chatterjee is diabetic, his friend Baisakhi Banerjee said. Mitra had earlier tested positive for Covid-19.“I am having breathing trouble. We are elected representatives. We are not thieves and dacoits. They [CBI] should not have treated us like this,” Mitra told reporters while being shifted to the hospital.A jail official said that Hakim and Mukherjee could also be sent for a check-up. Mukherjee accompanied Mitra and Chatterjee to the hospital but later returned to the jail. “I am not keeping well. I may have to go for a check-up on Tuesday,” Mukherjee told reporters at the hospital early on Tuesday.Hakim said as the chairman of the Kolkata Municipal Corporation’s board of administrators, he was supervising the Covid-19 management. “They [CBI] did not allow me to save the people of Kolkata. I was in charge and looking after the management of vaccines, arranging ambulance, and disposing of the dead bodies in the city. I have full faith in the judiciary,” he told journalists before being taken into custody.A jail official said both Hakim and Mukherjee skipped dinner and took a stroll in the morning.The high court will hear their bail pleas on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/narada-sting-case-bail-stayed-2-tmc-ministers-spend-night-in-jail-101621386934775.html
19-05-2021||Delhi||‘In ivory towers’: Delhi HC slams Centre over Covid-19 vaccine shortage||The Delhi high court on Tuesday castigated the Centre over the shortage of vaccines, observing that some of the central government’s officers are living in “ivory towers” ignorant of ground realities at a time when Covid-19 “has not spared a single family”.The court was hearing a petition by Panacea Biotec, which sought directions to the Union government to release several crores of rupees owed to it out of an arbitration ruling. The company said the money is required in order for it to produce doses of the Sputnik V vaccine, for which it has a licence from the original developers.“Which bureaucrat is giving you instructions? Is he not alive to the situation? God bless this country. That is why we are facing this situation. In such matters instructions are to be taken from the highest authorities that too within 30 minutes,” the bench said, after the Centre’s representative opposed the company’s plea.“Does your officer not see so many deaths taking place in the country and we are short of vaccines? Your client is not alive to the situation….,” the judges said while reacting to the Union government’s opposition to the plea.The application by Panacea was filed seeking to modify a July 2020 order, by which the firm had undertaken not to press the execution of the arbitral award passed in its favour and against the Centre.The Centre opposed the plea while contending that the manufacturing arrangement with the Russian Direct Investment Firm (RDIF) is for the global supply of Sputnik V.Criticising this stand, the bench said that Panacea Biotec’s alliance with RDIF to produce the Sputnik V vaccine should be seen as an opportunity to ensure its usage here.It said “no one is applying its mind” when there is an opportunity for the government to get millions of vaccines and it should use this as a window.“Otherwise, deaths will continue to happen. Every day you are castigated by each and every court and still you are not awake… You (government) are so short of vaccines and you are not taking it through. Maybe it is an opportunity for you. Don’t be so negative. It is like a raging fire and nobody is bothered. You people don’t understand the larger picture or what? The virus has not spared any single family. Your officers are living in ivory towers,” the bench added.Additional solicitor general Balbir Singh, representing the Centre, said certain “misleading statements” were made in the plea, and there was no urgency as the vaccines are to be sold outside India.However, senior advocate Sandeep Sethi, appearing for the petitioner, told the court that no manufactured vaccines can be exported without the government’s consent.The court issued a notice to the Centre and asked it to examine the plea and file a reply within a week and listed it for hearing on May 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/in-ivory-towers-delhi-hc-slams-centre-over-covid-19-vaccine-shortage-101621385271699.html
19-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi lockdown: Govt teams to help migrants who want to return home||The state government has formed multiple teams across Delhi’s 11 districts to identify migrant workers who want to return to their home towns or villages due to the ongoing lockdown in order to make necessary arrangements for their travel, a senior Delhi government official said.The move comes after the Supreme Court last week directed the Centre and the governments of Delhi, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh to provide dry ration and meals to labourers in the National Capital Region (NCR), as well as to ensure they have transportation if they wish to return home. The Delhi government has, to this effect, now directed districts to compile lists of workers who wish to go back home.“Each team comprises a revenue official, labour inspector and a police official. We have formed three to four teams in each district. The teams are visiting spots like construction sites to speak to migrant workers. We are asking people to register if they want to return home,” said a senior revenue department official aware of the matter .In south-west Delhi, officials are surveying all construction sites and clusters where a large population of migrant workers is present.With the lockdown in Delhi gradually being extended, this time till May 24, migrant workers said they fear that the curbs may continue for a while.“Some people we met at the construction site didn’t want to go immediately but they said they might leave if the curbs are extended for a longer period,” said an official.Apart from the survey, the teams are also telling migrant workers about hunger relief centres made in each district to provide food to people. In the east district, officials said none of the workers they have spoken to said they want to return.Officials managing the government’s helpline for migrant workers said majority of callers ask about financial assistance and renewal of their membership under construction workers board.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-lockdown-govt-teams-to-help-migrants-who-want-to-return-home-101621382107861.html
19-05-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: In isolation, coming together||Such honeyed voice. An assistant general manager in Bharat Electronics Limited, he sings exceptionally well. That’s the opinion within his friend circle, especially among his weekend groupies.This evening Tribhuwan Narayana Singh has already set up the stage within the isolation of his fourth floor home in a Ghaziabad apartment complex—complete with sound mixers, harmonium, earphones and mike.It’s Mr Singh’s hour for satsang, a weekly tradition he observes with his satsang comrades, in which they together sing devotional songs.“This has been my routine for 10 years,” he says. “Every Saturday evening I freshen up on returning from the office, and leave for the satsang”—which would be hosted in the house of one of the many members.Coronavirus disrupted the routine early last year. “Initially, during the lockdown, we were too involved with our new routines to pursue our sessions, but eventually we started again.” This time, it was online, and the session moved from Saturday to Sunday.Having recently celebrated his 50th birthday, Mr Singh lives with wife, a designer, and daughter, a grad student, who lets him use her study as his studio. As one of the group’s lead singers, Mr Singh offers bhajans devoted to Krishna, Shiv and Ganesh. A UP native, he recalls his childhood days of singing sacred chaupais (verses) of Ramcharitmanas in his village.Mr Singh’s conversational tone is tinged with a melodious rhythm, as he shows reluctance to open up and be in the spotlight. For all the group members are equally important, he notes. The purpose of satsang, he remarks, is for its attendees to attain—together—a higher state of consciousness through music and words of wisdom. Sadly, the pandemic forced this togetherness to splinter into a multitude of zoom screens. “When we chant shoulder-to-shoulder within the same space, the energy multiplies,” he concedes.Now the assistant general manager turns to his desktop. Some faces on the screen are familiar, a few aren’t—“Earlier we would be from nearby localities, but now people have joined from as far as Vizag, in south India.”Minutes later, Mr Singh is completely immersed in his rendition of an Amir Khusro poem. His expressions dissolve into the song’s spirit, as he and his audience of 35 satsangis draw closer while still staying isolated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-in-isolation-coming-together-101621381858581.html
19-05-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab records its deadliest day as 231 succumb to virus||Punjab on Tuesday registered a record 231 deaths due to Covid, pushing the toll to 12,317, while 7,143 fresh cases took the tally to 5,11,652, according to a medical bulletin. While 34 deaths were reported from Bathinda, 21 from Ludhiana, 19 each from Muktsar and Patiala and 16 from Amritsar, among the fatalities witnessed in the past 24 hours. Ludhiana reported the maximum 991 cases, followed by 754 in Bathinda, 717 in Mohali and 663 in Jalandhar, among fresh cases. The state’s single-day recoveries, which were registered at 8,174, again surpassed the single-day infections of 7,143. The number of active cases also dropped from 73,616 on Monday to 72,277, revealed the bulletin. The state’s positivity rate stood at 11.51%, it said. With 8,174 recoveries, the number of those recovered reached 4,27,058, the bulletin stated. There are 422 critical patients who are on ventilator support, 1,213 other critical patients and 8,202 are on oxygen support, it said. A total of 83,37,236 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, the bulletin said. Meanwhile, Chandigarh registered 526 cases, taking the count to 56,513, according to a medical bulletin. Tuesday’s single-day cases were lower than 620 registered on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-records-its-deadliest-day-as-231-succumb-to-virus-101621369096486.html
19-05-2021||Chandigarh||Capt’s detractors refuse to fight down, Rawat steps in to limit damage||Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh came under fresh fire from his detractors within the state cabinet and the party who questioned the tactics to allegedly “browbeat” them and met at a cabinet minister’s residence on Tuesday to discuss their future strategy. The fresh shots were fired by former minister Navjot Singh Sidhu, Rajya Sabha MP Partap Singh Bajwa, cabinet minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and Jalandhar Cantonment MLA Pargat Singh amid a damage-control exercise by All India Congress Committee (AICC) general secretary in-charge of Punjab affairs Harish Rawat. The state in-charge, who spoke to cabinet minister Charanjit Singh Channi, Bajwa and Pargat among others on Monday evening and Tuesday, had asked them to hold their fire, according to sources. Bajwa, Randhawa, Pargat were among more than half-a-dozen party leaders who met at Channi’s official residence and then spoke out. The common theme of their attacks was the attempt to rake up a two-and-a-half-years-old harassment allegation by a woman IAS officer against Channi and the threat call by a political aide of the chief minister to Pargat. Both Channi and Pargat have been critical of the state government’s handling of the sacrilege and police firing cases. The former had also held a meeting of about a dozen SC and OBC MLAs on unfulfilled poll promises which did not go down well with the CM’s camp. ‘5 ministers, 7 MLAs met at Channi’s house’ Bajwa, a strident critic of Amarinder, said they would not let the vigilance or any other agency to threaten or browbeat the ministers, MLAs and other party leaders who are speaking up in the interest of the Congress. “A threat is a serious offence and the CM has not issued any clarification even after 24 hours and then the attempt to rake up an old issue against the minister. This is not done. No one is scared and these tactics will not succeed,” he said, putting the number of those present in the meeting at five ministers and seven MLAs without disclosing their names. He said the government was targeting its own party MLAs when it should have probed the scams that took place during the previous Badal government. Bajwa said Rawat told him that they (central leadership) were watching and would do something very soon. “The high command should send a representative and convene a meeting of 80 MLAs, 11 MPs and 37 candidates who didn’t make it to the state assembly. I have conveyed this to central leaders. We don’t want leadership change but a course correction before it is too late,” he said. Sidhu says threat shows insecurity Sidhu, who has been breathing fire against the CM ever since the state government suffered a legal setback in the Kotkapura police firing case, said the threat to party colleagues exhibited fear and insecurity. “Ministers, MLAs and MPs raising people’s issues are strengthening the party, fulfilling their democratic duty and exercising their constitution right…but everyone who speaks the truth becomes your enemy. Thus, you threaten your party colleagues, exhibiting your fear and insecurity,” the former minister tweeted with a video clip of his friend Pargat’s press conference. Randhawa, Pargat slam women commission chief Both Randhawa and Pargat hit out at the Punjab Women Commission chairperson Manisha Gulati for her threat to stage a dharna and go to the Congress high command if the state government failed to submit a reply to a letter sent on the 2018 matter against Channi in which there was no complaint. “She holds a constitutional position and this is very unfortunate,” said Randhawa. Pargat, a former India hockey captain, also said that the commission chairperson should have known better and not acted in the manner she did. Channi had also planned a press conference on Tuesday but called it off after Rawat intervened. However, there was no official response from the chief minister or his advisers on the threat charge and the detractors’ continuous attacks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/capts-detractors-refuse-to-fight-down-rawat-steps-in-to-limit-damage-101621368854729.html
19-05-2021||Chandigarh||Positivity rate 6% higher in urban areas, Punjab tells HC||The Punjab government on Tuesday told the high court that the case positivity rate in urban areas is 16% against 9.9% in rural areas in the month of May, so far. At present, there are 50,234 active cases in urban areas and 20,854 in rural areas, the government told the court. These submissions were made during resumed hearing of a plea in which court is monitoring Covid-19 management in Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh. The government told court that 4.7 lakh samples were taken in urban areas and 3.2 lakh in rural areas out of which 75,308 people in urban area and 31,978 in rural areas tested positive. The court was further told that facilities to treat non-critical patients are being uniformly created in urban and rural areas and government has decided to add 2,000 more such beds.On vaccination, the court was told that it has placed an order of 30 lakh doses with Serum Institute of India out of which 4.29 lakh will be delivered by month-end. The state has also ordered 1.19 lakh Covaxin doses, same are also to be made available by month-end, the court was informed, adding that the vaccine wastage in state was 4.17%. ‘Mandatory jabs need deliberations’ Punjab has also told the court that there are provisions to make vaccination compulsory for government employees. “Any policy decision on whether mandatory vaccination is required need more deliberations at various levels to evolve a criteria of outlining the population upon whom it can be made mandatory,” the state told the court. Issue of faulty ventilators addressed: Centre to HC The Centre on Tuesday told the court that all help is being rendered to two states and Chandigarh in Covid-19 management. As many as 675 ventilators have been allotted to Punjab, 548 to Haryana and 65 to Chandigarh. “If a complaint regarding any fault in the ventilator is received, the same is immediately attended to. An effort is being made to ensure that most of them remain functional,” the court was told. The Centre had responded to allegations from Punjab that 90% of ventilators it got under PM Cares Fund were faulty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/positivity-rate-6-higher-in-urban-areas-punjab-tells-hc-101621368434821.html
19-05-2021||Chandigarh||BJP veteran Chaman Lal dies at 87||Known for championing the cause of Jammu region, a Messiah for the poor and downtrodden and a true philanthropist, veteran BJP leader Prof Chaman Lal Gupta passed away on Tuesday morning at his Gandhi Nagar residence here. He was 87. He is survived by two sons and a daughter Prof Gupta, an alumni of GGM Science College in Jammu and Allahabad University, had tested positive for Covid and was successfully treated at Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Narayana Superspeciality hospital. “He had tested positive on May 5 and returned from hospital on Sunday after successful treatment. His condition suddenly deteriorated in the wee hours of Tuesday,” said a family member of the leader. Prof Gupta was Union minister of state, ministry of civil aviation, between October 13, 1999 and September 1, 2001, MoS (independent charge), ministry of food processing industries (September 1, 2001 to June 30, 2002) and MoS for defence (July 1, 2002 to 2004). Born in Jammu on April 13, 1934, the BJP veteran was not in good health for the last couple of years as he was suffering from various ailments. The deceased leader had an illustrious political career spanning over five decades after he became a member of the J&K legislative assembly for the first time in 1972. He was again a member of J&K assembly between 2008 and 2014. He was elected to the 11th Lok Sabha from Udhampur constituency of Jammu in 1996 and re-elected to 12th and 13th Lok Sabha in 1998 and 1999. An author of three books in Hindi and a two-time J&K BJP president, he had completed his MSc from GGM Science College Jammu and Allahabad University. Prime Minister Narendra Modi took to Twitter and posted his condolences. “Shri Chaman Lal Gupta Ji will be remembered for numerous community service efforts. He was a dedicated legislator and strengthened the BJP across Jammu and Kashmir. Pained by his demise. My thoughts are with his family and supporters in this hour of grief. Om Shanti,” he tweeted. BJP national chief JP Nadda wrote, “Shocked to hear about the demise of BJP leader and former Union Minister prof Chaman Lal Gupta Ji. He played an important role in strengthening the party in Jammu & Kashmir...”. Lieutenant Governor of J&K, Manoj Sinha, also paid rich tributes to Chaman Lal Gupta. “Deeply pained to hear about the passing away of former union minister, Prof Chaman Lal Gupta Ji... he will always be remembered for his immense contribution towards welfare of the people.,” the office of the Lt Governor tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bjp-veteran-chaman-lal-dies-at-87-101621368256156.html
19-05-2021||Chandigarh||Panchkula doctor couple succumbs to Covid, daughter alleges medical negligence||For Kerrein Sharma (28), a lawyer, life turned upside down last week when her doctor parents succumbed to the coronavirus within a span of three days.Her father Dr Ajay Sharma, an anaesthetist, was deputed on Covid duty at the Ambala civil hospital in April and the entire family tested positive in May first week.The family lives in Panchkula’s Ramgarh area. Kerrein, the only child of her parents, struggled for nine days with her father admitted in Ambala, while her mother, Dr Indu Sharma, a surgeon, on ventilator support at government hospital, Sector 6, in Panchkula. “I was attending to my ailing mother whose oxygen level was dropping and she was coughing blood. On May 11, my father died of cardiac arrest after his sugar levels touched 700,” she said. The 28-year-old, who lit the funeral pyre of her father with the help of her friends in Ambala, hid the news of death from her mother whose condition was deteriorating in Panchkula.She said, “My mother died on May 15 morning. While completing the formalities I received a call from Hit Charitable Trust offering help in cremation and other rituals for free.”She alleged that her parents died due to medical negligence as they were not given timely treatment. “When I was with my father at the isolation ward, I had requested the doctors to attend to him but none paid heed to my request,” said Kerrein, who is in home isolation due to infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panchkula-doctor-couple-succumbs-to-covid-daughter-alleges-medical-negligence-101621368135972.html
19-05-2021||Chandigarh||Killing of ASIs: ₹19 lakh reward announced for info on gangster Jaipal, 3 aides||Police have announced a cash reward of ₹19 lakh for providing information on gangster Jaipal Bhullar and three of his accomplices who allegedly killed two assistant sub-inspectors (ASIs) of the crime investigation agency (CIA) in Jagraon town of Ludhiana district on May 15. The identity of the informer will be kept a secret, the police said.  ₹10 lakh was announced on Jaipal Bhullar, ₹5 lakh on Jaspreet Singh of Kharar and ₹2 lakh each was announced Balwinder Singh, alias Babbi of of Moga and Darshan Singh of of Ludhiana, an official said. Following a tip-off, the police conducted a search operation at Alamgir and surrounding villages in search of the accused. The cops have rounded up some people allegedly having links with the gangster.Ludhiana senior superintendent of police (SSP) Charanjit Singh Sohal said raids are on to nab the accused. Jaipal along with his accomplices had allegedly gunned down ASIs Bhagwan Singh and Dalwinderjit Singh in the new grain market of Jagraon and fled.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/killing-of-asis-rs-19-lakh-reward-announced-for-info-on-gangster-jaipal-3-aides-101621368134671.html
19-05-2021||Chandigarh||37-year-old resident doctor at GMC Patiala dies of Covid||Dr Rajan Singh, a 37-year-old senior resident at Government Medical College, Patiala, succumbed to Covid-19 at a private hospital in the city on Tuesday. Dr Singh, who was from the department of surgery, was posted at isolation ward of GMC. He was admitted to the intensive care unit (ICU) of the private hospital after contracting infection on April 30. He was from Banga of SBS Nagar district and is survived by his wife, a son and parents.In a letter to chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh, GMC’s resident doctors’ association asked the state government to bear ₹12 lakh expenses incurred on his treatment and provide immediate financial help to the family. Dr Nitin Chhabra, president of the association, said Dr Rajan contracted the deadly virus while serving patients selflessly. “Dr Rajan was the sole breadwinner of his family. It would be very difficult for family to bear cost of his treatment. We want the government to stand by the families of our colleagues who lost their lives,” Dr Chhabra said.Patiala MP Preneet Kaur condoled the death, saying as a senior resident he had been at the forefront of the battle against the deadly virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/37yearold-resident-doctor-at-gmc-patiala-dies-of-covid-101621368076027.html
19-05-2021||Chandigarh||Banning Sikh children from wearing kirpan in Oz schools unfortunate: SGPC||The Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) on Tuesday said the decision of imposing ban on wearing ‘kirpan’ by Sikh children in public schools in Australia’s New South Wales state was unfortunate as it is against religious freedom. In a press statement, SGPC president Jagir Kaur said the ban will come into effect from Wednesday (May 19). “The ban was imposed following an incident at a Sydney school on May 6 when a 14-year-old Sikh student who was bullied injured another student with his kirpan. The government there should have taken proper advice from the representative bodies of the Sikh community before deciding to imposing ban. It is one of the five symbols of Sikhism,” she said. She said it is believed that the education minister had an online meeting with two members of the Sikh community when she informed them about the ban. However, no discussion was held with the Sikh community before the decision was taken, she added. “The decision has deeply hurt the sentiments of Sikhs at home and abroad and is being widely opposed. Kirpan is worn in schools all over the world without any incident and the Sikh community needs to be cautious while taking lessons from the latest school incident in New South Wales,” the gurdwara body chief added. “The SGPC urges the Indian government and the Indian ambassador to Australia to take up the matter with the Australian authorities and make efforts for revoking this decision. We will soon write to the governments of India and Australia in this regard,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/banning-sikh-children-from-wearing-kirpan-in-oz-schools-unfortunate-sgpc-101621368074838.html
19-05-2021||Chandigarh||71 die, 3,967 test positive for Covid in J&K||As many 71 people lost their lives to Covid-19 on Tuesday in Jammu and Kashmir taking May’s fatalities to 1,011 and overall death toll to 3,293.The UT also recorded 3,967 fresh infections in the past 24 hours, pushing the overall cases to 2, 51,919.Officials said with 666 cases, Srinagar had the highest number of new infections, followed by 522 in Jammu district, 454 in Budgam, 272 in Udhampur and 196 in Baramulla. The number of active cases has reached 50,925, officials said. Officials said nearly 3,823 patients have recovered, including 2,463 from Kashmir and 1,360 from Jammu. As many as 1,97,701 people have recovered so far, taking the recovery rate to 78.47% Kashmir divisional commissioner Pandurang K Pole, meanwhile, said the rate of Covid cases has plunged by 10-12% during the past few days in Valley.He said that still there are chances that the mortality rate will remain the same or increase in the next few days. “The demand for oxygen beds has also eased out as more beds have been added at all dedicated hospitals,” he added. He said that Kashmir is in a comfortable position with five oxygen manufacturing plants while 20 more oxygen generation units have been installed at different hospitals in Kashmir.“The J & K government has placed an order of 1.2 crore vaccine doses. However, there can be difficulty as other states have also placed orders,” he said. “Despite that, vaccination of 45+ age group is going on in full swing and the rate in J&K is 61% against the 33% national rate,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/71-die-3-967-test-positive-for-covid-in-jk-101621367955968.html
19-05-2021||Chandigarh||Another deadliest day in Himachal claims 78 lives||Himachal Pradesh recorded another deadliest day on Tuesday as 78 patients succumbed to the coronavirus infection, taking the death count in the state to 2,447. This is highest number of fatalities after Sunday when 70 people lost their lives.Highest 23 deaths were reported in Hamirpur followed by 15 in Kangra and 10 in Solan. Mandi reported eight fatalities while seven people died in Sirmaur, three each in Kullu and Una, two in Chamba and one in Kinnaur.The case fatality ratio in the state is 1.46%.Meanwhile, state’s Covid-19 caseload rose to 1,66,678 with 2,892 more people detected positive. Of the new cases, 942 were reported in Kangra, 351 in Shimla, 314 in Mandi, 259 in Solan, 222 in Bilaspur, 174 in Una, 172 in Chamba, 143 in Sirmaur, 123 in Hamirpur, 106 in Kullu, 67 in Kinnaur and 19 in Lahaul-Spiti.The active cases in the state have come down to 34,888 as recoveries climbed up to 1,29,315 after 4,559 people recuperated.The state has recorded more recoveries than the positive cases on third consecutive day. The recovery rate has once again touched 77%.Meanwhile, Kangra remains the worst hit district with 37,101 infections and is followed by Mandi with 22,627 cases and Shimla 21,211 cases.Solan has total 19,344 cases, Sirmaur 12,814, Hamirpur 11,724, Una 10,795, Bilaspur 10,420, Chamba 8,290 , Kullu 7,502, Kinnaur 2,443 and Lahaul-Spiti 2,407. 200-bed makeshift Covid health centre comes up at Mandi’s KhaliyarHimachal chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Tuesday inaugurated a makeshift dedicated Covid health centre (DCHC) on Radha Soami Satsang Beas premises in Mandi’s Khaliyar.This hospital has 200 fully oxygenated beds, 20-bed critical patients ward, central oxygen supply with two 20x20 oxygen manifold. The centre also has separate washrooms, lounge for patients, fire safety arrangements and purified drinking water facility for patients. It has 16 CCTVs and power backup besides on-spot lab facility which would be manned by 140 health personnel.Thakur said this makeshift hospital would go a long way in providing better healthcare facilities to Covid-19 patients. He said that another pre-fabricated hospital with 100 beds was also coming up at Bhangrotu.The CM said to cope with the ever-increasing demand of beds for Covid patients, the state government has constructed pre-fabricated Covid hospitals at Shimla, Kangra and Nalagarh. He said that similar hospital was also coming up at Ner Chowk.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/another-deadliest-day-in-himachal-claims-78-lives-101621367895026.html
19-05-2021||Delhi||‘Those importing O2 devices can afford 12% IGST’: Centre tells Delhi HC||People who import oxygen concentrators for personal use or as gifts would be in a position to afford paying 12% Integrated Goods and Service Tax (IGST), the Union government told the Delhi high court on Tuesday, opposing a petition to make such imports duty free.The matter relates to a plea filed by an 85-year-old person with Covid-19, who opposed the 12% tax on an oxygen concentrator sent as a gift from his nephew in the US. The government defended its decision to retain the tax rate and said that “significant relief has already been provided” after duties on personal imports of oxygen concentrators was reduced from 77% to 12%.In an affidavit filed before a bench of justices Rajiv Shakdher and Talwant Singh, the Centre has said that the parity between commercial and personal imports would ensure that the personal import route remains legitimate.“…..with a 12% IGST rate on imports of concentrators, a parity at a lower GST rate has been attained between gift, personal imports and commercial imports of oxygen concentrators. This ensures that the common man buying it through a commercial route, from a trader, or a person who could personally import, either on paying from pocket or receiving as gift, all bear the same incidence of IGST at a lower rate of 12%.On Tuesday, after hearing lengthy arguments, the court reserved its judgment.The Centre contended that imposition of tax or deciding the tax rates does not come under judicial review. It has said that if the argument of the petitioner is accepted, then it will lead to absurd consequences and interpretations, wherein citizens will be seeking exemption from property tax, since housing is an essential facet Right of Life under Article 21.It also said that some may also seek exemption from taxes imposed on several food items since Right to Food has been held by the Supreme Court to be a part of Right of Life under Article 21.The Centre also told the court that the present petition is being considered with open mind and all the considered representations including request for exemption of GST on personal import of oxygen concentrator, shall be placed before the next meeting of the GST Council, for its recommendations, as it may deem appropriate, taking into account all relevant factors and the present situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/those-importing-o2-devices-can-afford-12-igst-centre-tells-delhi-hc-101621367145881.html
19-05-2021||Chandigarh||These six volunteers have cremated 1.5K Covid victims in Ludhiana till now||A team of six volunteers, working tirelessly in coordination with the district administration, has cremated over 1,590 Covid victims since the pandemic began last year.Mandeep Guddu, Gurpreet Singh, Charanjit Singh, Harvinder Singh Amrit, Shivam Kumar and advocate Gopal Singh were initially part of the traffic marshal project launched last year and later came together after seeing family members step away from performing the last rites of their loved ones.“We pray every day that the situation goes back to normal at the earliest and the grim scenario at the cremation grounds ends,” the team said, which has been working at the cremation grounds in Model Town Extension and the one situated near Arora Palace on Gill Road.As seen in a heart-rending video, which has gone viral on social media, the volunteers broke down seeing the large number of bodies being cremated. They say it has not been an easy task for them, but they continue to perform the service as it gives them inner peace. Leading the group, Mandeep Guddu said, “I decided to volunteer after a video went viral in April last year, in which the family members of a Shimlapuri-based woman, including her son, refused to cremate her body. It felt like humanity was dying, so I decided to step forward. Soon after, my friends and colleagues under the traffic marshal program joined hands. We also participated in the cremation of ACP Anil Kohli.”Worried about their families’ safetyThe volunteers said it was not easy to convince their families and take permission from the administration. They also had to ensure the safety of their families.“I had isolated myself for three days after cremating the first victim in April last year. Even now, we take a two-hour break before moving back to our houses. I own a restaurant in the Haibowal area and my business also got affected as customers started avoiding my eatery,” said Mandeep.Speaking of the grim situation, advocate Gopal Singh, who also got infected last year, said, “We cremated 19 bodies a day at the peak of the first wave last year. But, for the last few weeks, we have been regularly cremating over 20 bodies. Over 40 bodies were cremated at three cremation grounds - Model Town Extension, Barewal and one near Dana Mandi in a day recently.”While the municipal corporation had earlier announced that the volunteers will be employed on DC minimum wages rates, but nothing official has been done in this regard yet.Wearing PPE kits in searing heat a challengeThe volunteers stated that cremating the bodies was not an easy task while wearing PPE kits. Two of the volunteers - Harvinder Singh and Shivam Kumar, fainted last week at the Dana Mandi cremation ground due to excessive heat.With the rising number of deaths, their work sometimes continues from 8am to 11pm and many times, they work in shifts to alleviate pressure and to look after their businesses and families.Gopal said, “It is difficult to watch a large number of bodies being cremated at once and sometimes, the relatives do not even come forward to perform the last rites.”Mandeep said, “We try to involve one family member in the cremation process and make sure that they also wear a PPE kit. We generally try to convince residents to cremate their loved ones at the gas crematorium at Model Town Extension, as there is excessive heat in the open. But, often residents remain adamant on traditional cremations.”Humanity above everything elseShivam Kumar, 22, left his job at a pharmaceutical company in Dugri to join the team. Kumar said he was being paid ₹15,000 per month and his family also opposed his decision initially. But, he desperately wanted to join this voluntary service to serve humanity.Harvinder Singh Amrit, 21, lost his job at a garment store last year and said he was looking for employment, but will continue his service till the pandemic ends.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/these-six-volunteers-have-cremated-1-5k-covid-victims-in-ludhiana-till-now-101621367417093.html
19-05-2021||Chandigarh||Two highway robbers who targeted truck drivers arrested in Ludhiana||Police have arrested two highway robbers, who used to snatch money and mobile phones from truck drivers to meet their need of drugs.As many as five mobile phones, two stolen motorcycles, sharp-edged weapons and ₹2,500 in cash has been recovered from the possession of the accused, Randhir Singh, alias Dheera, 30, and Paras, both from Phillaur.“The duo was arrested during special checking on National Highway-44 on Monday night. They were coming from Phillaur on a two-wheeler and tried to escape after spotting a police check post, but were nabbed,” said assistant commissioner of police (ACP, North) Gurbinder Singh.“During questioning, the accused revealed that they used to rob truck drivers on the highway to make easy money for drugs. After committing the crime, they would to flee to Phillaur. They had robbed two truck drivers on Sunday night as well,” the ACP added.Inspector Gopal Kishan, SHO, Salem Tabri police station, said Randhir was a farmer, while Paras was a driver. “The former is facing trial in at least 13 cases of snatching and drug peddling, while Paras has three FIRs lodged against him,” he said.They have been booked under Sections 379-B (theft) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code. A local court on Tuesday sent the accused to two-day police custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/two-highway-robbers-who-targeted-truck-drivers-arrested-in-ludhiana-101621367355917.html
19-05-2021||Chandigarh||Capt announces ₹10-lakh grant for villages achieving 100% vaccination target||To incentivise villages to give up vaccine hesitancy, chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Tuesday announced a special development grant of ₹10 lakh to every village that achieves 100% vaccination target under the Punjab government’s “Corona Mukt Pind Abhiyan”. Appealing to sarpanches and panches across the state to lead their villages in the fight against the coronavirus pandemic, Amarinder urged them to motivate the people to undergo testing even in case of mild symptoms, and to get themselves vaccinated. The chief minister was interacting virtually with village panchayats represented by more than 2,000 heads/members across over 4,000 live locations in rural areas of the state through LED screens. The CM informed them that the government had already sanctioned permission for sarpanches to utilise up to ₹5,000 per day from panchayat funds for emergency Covid treatment. Underlining the need to sensitise the rural population about the harmful effects of coronavirus and the importance of early detection and treatment to save precious lives, the CM said this could only be done through special awareness campaigns. Amarinder asked the panchayats to organise special medical camps and to rope in the services of ex-servicemen, who had fought several wars during their active service career and were now part of the state’s fight against the pandemic. He asked the sarpaches and panches to start “theekri pehra” in their villages to prevent infected persons from coming in and also distribute “Fateh Kits” to every person who tests positive, besides ensuring proper treatment in case oxygen saturation level goes below 94%. He also urged the people living in villages to immediately quarantine themselves in case of any symptoms, and get themselves tested to ensure early detection of the infection. Earlier, rural development and panchayats minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa requested the panchayat members to come forward to support the government’s endeavour to control the Covid situation. He also advised villagers not to rely on quacks but to consult the doctors in the government primary health centres. Health and family welfare minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said the health department had already placed an order for 12 lakh kits for Rapid Antigen Test (RAT) to detect the corona cases at the initial stage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/capt-announces-rs-10-lakh-grant-for-villages-achieving-100-vaccination-target-101621367354698.html
19-05-2021||Chandigarh||Booze party in Ludhiana jail: Six inmates caught on video identified||Officials at the Ludhiana Central Jail have identified all inmates caught enjoying booze and hookah in the jail barracks through a viral video. A report has been sent to the Ludhiana police to lodge an FIR against Manwinder Singh, alias Nikka Jattana, of Jattana village, who is facing trial in at least 16 cases; Abhishek Kumar, booked in a narcotics case; Parminder Singh, booked for murder and attempt to murder; Bharti Singh, who is facing trial in seven cases; Kewal Krishan, an accused in a drug case; and Maninder Singh, a convict in drug case.According to the jail officials, the identified accused, who had formed a gang inside the jail, had disposed of the mobile phones, liquor bottles and hookahs after their video went public.Additional director general of police (ADGP, Prison) PK Sinha said it was being investigated how the accused managed to get the banned articles inside the prison.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/booze-party-in-ludhiana-jail-six-inmates-caught-on-video-identified-101621367295593.html
19-05-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana trader held for black marketing of oxygen cylinders denied bail||Shortage of oxygen has caused deaths of many patients, so selling oxygen cylinders at a higher rate is a serious offence, which does not deserve any leniency, a local court said on Tuesday, while dismissing the bail plea of a shopkeeper arrested for black marketing of oxygen cylinders. The defence counsel of the accused, Somnath of Purshotam Traders, Sudhar, had submitted in court that his client was innocent and had been falsely implicated in the case. The counsel stated that recovery was over and the applicant was no more required by the police for the purpose of investigation and nothing was recoverable from him.However, the court of Jagraon judicial magistrate Simarjit Singh denied the plea. The Sadar police had arrested Purshotam on May 4 for black marketing of oxygen cylinders and recovered 23 cylinders from his possession.He was arrested following a complaint by a relative of a Covid patient, who had contacted the accused for an oxygen cylinder and was supplied two small cylinders for an exorbitant price of ₹26,000.The accused is facing a case under Sections 420 (cheating) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code, Section 51 of the Disaster Management Act and Section 7 of the Essential Commodities Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-trader-held-for-black-marketing-of-oxygen-cylinders-denied-bail-101621367175002.html
19-05-2021||Other||Petrol crosses the ₹99-mark in Mumbai||Petrol crossed the ₹99-mark for one litre in the city on Tuesday. With an increase of 26 paise from Sunday’s ₹98.88, petrol was available at ₹99.14 per litre in the city. Diesel price also hiked to ₹90.71 per litre after it went up by 31 paise from Sunday’s ₹90.40.On Monday, there was no increase in the prices of fuel in the city. Transporters have said that the government is taking no action to reduce the plight of citizens who are already suffering due to the pandemic.“The all-time-high diesel and petrol prices is creating a saga of callosity and insensitivity of the blind, deaf and dumb government towards the plight of transport traders and citizens even during the current times when the entire country in engulfed with the fallout of the pandemic and the government’s monumental failure to tame it. We fail to understand the logic behind it and why is the government insensitive to the miserable conditions of the people of the country and to our repeated pleas for relief,” said Bal Malkit Singh, chairman, All India Motor Transport Congress (AIMTC).Prices of fuel were stable from April 15 to May 3. On April 15, petrol was priced at ₹96.83 for one litre while diesel was available for ₹87.81, as opposed to ₹96.98 and ₹87.96, respectively, on April 14.Fuel prices in the city have been increasing steadily since May 3, when one litre of petrol was available at ₹96.83, while diesel was priced at ₹87.81 per litre. Since then, the prices of petrol and diesel have seen an overall increase by ₹2.31and ₹2.90 per litre, respectively, till Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/petrol-crosses-the-99-mark-in-mumbai-101621367115887.html
19-05-2021||Chandigarh||Accused of letting off drug smugglers, axed Punjab Police inspector’s bail plea rejected||A Tarn Taran court has rejected an anticipatory bail plea of a dismissed Punjab Police inspector, accused of letting off two drug smugglers arrested with 1kg of heroin in March this year.Baljit Singh, who was posted in the Civil Lines area of Tarn Taran, had allegedly released Malkit Singh, alias Palta, and his brother-in-law Bau Singh after accepting ₹3.5 lakh as bribe on March 31. Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Davinder Singh, who was posted at the Amritsar judicial complex, was arrested for aiding the inspector, while the other accused are still absconding.A case under the NDPS Act and Section 7 of Prevention of Corruption Act was registered against Baljit, Davinder and the drug smugglers. The police had also nominated one Jasbir Singh at whose home the deal was struck. Baljit, who has gone into hiding since the registration of the case, had filed a pre-arrest bail under Section 438 of the CrPC. The case was heard in the Tarn Taran special court on Monday. Through his counsel Kanwaljit Singh Bath, Baljit pleaded that he was falsely implicated in the case. Bath told the court that no departmental inquiry was conducted before registration of the case against the former inspector.Additional public prosecutor Charanjit Singh contended that Baljit and Davinder shared the bribe money. The seized heroin was also with Baljit, he added.Tarn Taran special court judge Kawaljit Singh observed that the custodial interrogation of the accused was mandatory to ensure fair investigationThe case was registered on ASI Jatinder Singh’s statement. In his complaint, Jatinder said he got a tip-off that Baljit and Davinder had released two smugglers after taking ₹3.5 lakh bribe. Senior superintendent of police (SSP) Dhruman H Nimbale had marked a probe to a deputy superintendent of police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/accused-of-letting-off-drug-smugglers-axed-punjab-police-inspector-s-bail-plea-rejected-101621367114880.html
19-05-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana property grab case: SHO transferred to police lines for inaction||Inspector Goldy Virdi, SHO of the Basti Jodhewal police station, has been transferred to police lines for delay in action into the complaint by a victim of a property grab case.In the order, commissioner of police Rakesh Agrawal has replaced Virdi with inspector Mohammad Jamil, who was earlier the SHO of the Tibba police station. Inspector Pramod Kumar, from police lines, will take over as the SHO of the Tibba station.On Monday, the victim, Satinderpal Singh, 34, along with his wife and two minor children, had reached the police commissioner’s office, where he threatened to immolate himself due to the alleged police inaction into his complaint.After Singh poured kerosene over himself, police swung into action and lodged an FIR under Sections 380 (theft in dwelling house, etc), 447 (criminal trespass) and 34 (acts done in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code against the accused, Pradeep Kumar, alias Kaka, and Vikram Sahota, alias Vicky. No arrest has been made yet.According to Singh, he had kept his rented spare parts shop in Kali Sadak area locked due to the lockdown imposed in Ludhiana. On March 29, he came to know that Kumar and Sahota had grabbed his shop and stolen articles worth ₹20 lakh after breaking open the locks. Singh complained to the police commissioner that when he approached the Basti Jodhewal police for relief, instead of taking action, the cops started pressuring him for settlement. When he refused, they hurled abuses at him and harassed him, forcing him to consider ending his life.Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP, City 1) Pragya Jain said they were looking into the role of other police personnel deputed at the Basti Jodhewal police station. “We are conducting raised to arrest the accused named by the complainant. Investigation is underway regarding the status of the shop in question,” said inspector Mohammad Jamil.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-property-grab-case-sho-transferred-to-police-lines-for-inaction-101621367115330.html
19-05-2021||Other||Elgar Parishad case: Bombay HC likely to hear Stan Swamy’s bail plea today||In view of the frail health of Elgar Parishad accused Stan Swamy, his lawyers moved the Bombay high court (HC) seeking an urgent hearing of the octogenarian’s bail application on medical grounds. HC has allowed the request and is likely to hear the application on Wednesday Meanwhile on Tuesday, the authorities at Taloja jail – where the 84-year-old is lodged – took the Jesuit priest to Sir JJ Hospital for treatment and also got him vaccinated for Covid-19. According to Swamy’s advocate Mihir Joshi, the inmates of Taloja jail have informed that there are 26 Covid-19 cases, and a co-accused, Hani Babu, who is lodged in the same jail hospital as the octogenarian, also tested positive for the virus.“Swamy has developed cough and fever over the last week and he suspects that he may also have contracted the virus. However, as the jail authorities have not tested him for Covid-19, we decided to move HC for an urgent hearing of his bail application on medical grounds. We moved the praecipe on Monday and hope that it will come up for hearing before the division bench of justice SJ Kathawalla on Wednesday,” said Joshi. Swamy, who has done substantial work in Jharkhand for the rights and upliftment of the tribal community there, was arrested last year on October 9, for his alleged involvement in the 2018 Bhima-Koregaon violence incident, which left one dead and several others injured.Swamy’s lawyers moved HC last month after his application for bail on substantive grounds was rejected by a special court last year. HC, while refusing the urgent hearing of the appeal against the special court’s decision, had granted liberty to the family of the Jesuit priest to move an application for bail on medical ground, after taking into considerations his age and frail health. Following reports of a large number of inmates and staff at Taloja jail testing positive for Covid-19 and the jail authorities refusing to test Swamy despite the fever, his relatives were prompted to seek the urgent hearing of the bail application. According to Joshi, the application seeks directions to jail authorities to test Swamy for Covid-19 and shift him to a hospital outside the jail as the one in the prison does not have sufficient and qualified medical staff. Taloja jail superintendent Kaustubh Kurlekar, however, said that they have not received any complaint from Swamy over any health problem. “On Saturday, I had visited the high-security cell where he [Swamy] has been lodged. But he has not complained of anything. He is already on medical diet. Prison officials and doctor regularly go on rounds in the circles [barracks], and if any inmate has a health problem, they can communicate with officials and get medicines. Instead of informing friends and relatives outside about his health problems, he should inform us so that he can be provided with medical assistance is case he’s in need of it,” said Kurlekar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/elgar-parishad-case-bombay-hc-likely-to-hear-stan-swamy-s-bail-plea-today-101621366994104.html
19-05-2021||Chandigarh||Robbers chop off man’s hand, decamp with tablet, ₹1,500 in Amritsar||Two bike-borne robbers chopped off a 35-year-old man’s hand and decamped with his bag containing a tablet and ₹1,500 at Naushehra Nangli village in Amritsar, police said on Tuesday.The incident took place on Monday afternoon when Akash Avenue area resident Plath Vishwas, who works with a private finance company, was returning after collecting the loan amount from the village. A video shot soon after the incident shows the victim sitting alongside a road with one of his hands lying on the ground.The victim was admitted to a private hospital, where his amputated hand was replanted, said Kambo station house officer Yadwinder Singh, adding that his condition is stable. Police said they were scanning CCTV footage to ascertain the identity of the accused. A case under Sections 307 (attempt to murder), 379-B (theft by force), 341 (wrongful restrain) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) has been registered against the unidentified accused at the Kambo police station on Plath’s colleague Ankit Mittal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/robbers-chop-off-man-s-hand-decamp-with-tablet-rs-1-500-in-amritsar-101621366875875.html
19-05-2021||Chandigarh||Speeding truck mows down 60-year-old biker in Ludhiana||A speeding truck mowed down a 60-year-old motorcyclist on Southern Bypass near Dugri on Tuesday morning. Police said the victim, Mohan Singh, 60, was a tailor, who lived in Daba village.According to his brother Gurmeet Singh, Mohan had left the house around 8.30am for some work in Dugri. Later, he received a call about Mohan meeting with an accident. Onlookers rushed Mohan to a nearby hospital, but he succumbed to his injuries. “The truck driver, Chhota Singh, 45, of Rupnagar, tried to escape after the accident, but was nabbed by passers-by and handed over to the police. He has been booked under Sections 279 (reckless driving) and 304-A (causing death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code. The truck has been impounded,” said inspector Surinder Chopra, SHO, Dugri police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/speeding-truck-mows-down-60-year-old-biker-in-ludhiana-101621366874767.html
19-05-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana’s Covid cases remain below 1,000 for third straight day, 21 dead||Covid-19 cases on Tuesday remained below the 1,000 mark for the third day in a row with 991 new infections. However, the deaths were still on the higher side with 21 people losing the battle to the contagion.Cases started receding on May 16 when 942 people had tested positive, the lowest since April 30’s 792 cases, followed by 851 infections on May 17. The deaths, too, saw a downturn, dropping below 20 on May 14 (19) for the first time since the 19 fatalities on May 8. But, have since May 16 remained above the 20 mark daily. At nine, it was only on April 25 last when the daily deaths were below 10. The youngest among those who died on Tuesday was a 31-year-old woman and the oldest, a 75-year-old resident of Basant Vihar. As many as seven of the deceased were in their 60s, six in their 50s, while four were aged above 70. Three people aged between 40 and 50 were also among those who died. With the fresh cases, Ludhiana’s cases and deaths since the beginning of the pandemic have climbed to 77,637 and 1,761, respectively, both highest in Punjab. However, at 7.53%, the positivity rate – proportion of samples that test positive – was below the state average of 11.5% on Tuesday.Yet, in the terms of active cases, Ludhiana is the worst affected in the state with 12,371 people still recuperating at hospitals or in home isolation. As many as 61 patients are on ventilator support.So far in May, the district has clocked 23,051 cases and 386 deaths, compared to 20,176 cases and 231 deaths through April when the second wave of the pandemic started sweeping the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhianas-covid-cases-remain-below-1-000-for-third-straight-day-21-dead-101621366814700.html
19-05-2021||Chandigarh||Two Covid patients diagnosed with black fungus die in Patiala||Two Covid positive patients, who were also diagnosed for mucormycosis, popularly known as black fungus, died at Government Medical College and Rajindra Hospital, Patiala.However, doctors ruled out black fungus as the main cause behind the deaths. Dr RPS Sibia, Covid care in-charge, said the patients developed complications due to Covid and were on ventilator support.“Both were diagnosed with black fungus but it did not turn out to be reason behind their death,” Dr Sibia said.He said six Covid patients suspected to be infected with black fungus were admitted to the hospital on Monday.“Four of the patients tested positive for the fungus, of which two died, while two are undergoing treatment,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/two-covid-patients-diagnosed-with-black-fungus-die-in-patiala-101621366635243.html
19-05-2021||Chandigarh||Probe reports never blamed Badals for firing incidents: Majithia||Former minister and Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader Bikram Singh Majithia on Tuesday said that contrary to the Congress leaders’ claims, the reports by Justice Ranjit Singh Commission and the SIT led by Kunwar Vijay Pratap never blamed then chief minister Parkash Singh Badal and his deputy Sukhbir Singh Badal for the 2015 police firing incidents. Addressing the media at party headquarters in Chandigarh, Majithia said: “Both the reports didn’t indict the then CM and his deputy. The SIT relied on the commission’s recommendations, and the Haryana high court recently rejected the SIT report.” The Akali leader threw a challenge to his political opponents to submit an evidence in the HC or seek forgiveness. “Capt Amarinder Singh, state Congress chief Sunil Jakhar, cabinet ministers Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and Charanjit Singh Channi, besides former minister Navjot Singh Sidhu owe an explanation to the people of Punjab as it is a sacrilege not to use the evidence in order to punish the guilty.” Attacking Sidhu, Majithia claimed that the Congress MLA was seen touching feet of Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh and comparing him to Guru Nanak in a video grab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/probe-reports-never-blamed-badals-for-firing-incidents-majithia-101621366454727.html
19-05-2021||Chandigarh||Threat to public safety: 4 Punjab-origin gangsters on Vancouver police list||Police in the Canadian city of Vancouver has identified six alleged gangsters, including four Indo-Canadians, as they are linked to violence and may pose a threat to public safety.The Vancouver Police Department or VPD said they may pose danger to the public simply because they may be targeted by rival gang members. It released a poster featuring them and also posted it on social media.The six are brothers 38-year-old Barinder, and Meninder Dhaliwal, 28, Harjit, 38, and Garinder Deo, 35, also brothers, Ekene Anigbo, 22, and Damion Ryan, 41. They are connected to gangs operating in the Metro Vancouver region like Hells Angels, Brothers Keepers, Kang and Red Scorpion.This announcement came a week after a 28-year-old linked to gang activity, Karman Grewal, was executed by suspected rivals outside the main terminal of the Vancouver International Airport or YVR on the afternoon of May 9.The Vancouver Sun reported that a third Dhaliwal brother Harb, was gunned down outside a restaurant in Vancouver on the evening of April 17. Similarly, it said another Deo brother, Sukh, was the victim of a targeted shooting in Toronto in 2016.“Gang violence continues to be a prominent public safety issue in Metro Vancouver. There have been numerous reckless, brazen acts of violence that threaten the safety of innocent bystanders,” VPD chief constable Adam Palmer said in a statement, which was accompanied with a poster featuring photographs of the dozen mentioned in it.The VPD pointed out there have been 20 gang-related homicides in Metro Vancouver this year alone and 20 attempted murders. “Police are expecting the violence to continue and escalate,” the statement noted.Indo-Canadians have been prominent in the gang landscape in the region for many years.“Our police intelligence leads us to believe that the individuals we have identified today may be targeted by rival gang members. My greatest concern right now, related to the ongoing gang violence, is that an innocent bystander will be hurt or killed during a shooting targeting a gangster,” Palmer said, as he cautioned Vancouver residents “to know the faces of these individuals and to keep their distance from them.”The department has also initiated a new taskforce to deal with the escalating gang violence. Called Taskforce Threshold, it was launched on May 12.The statement also said that VPD is “continuing to share intelligence with and collaborate with other police agencies in Metro Vancouver, including the RCMP and Combined Forces Special Enforcement Unit of British Columbia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/threat-to-public-safety-4-punjab-origin-gangsters-on-vancouver-police-list-101621366274776.html
19-05-2021||Mumbai||Cyclone Tauktae damages Olive Ridley nests in Maharashtra, at least 2,000 eggs feared lost||The passage of Cyclone Tauktae along Maharashtra’s coast damaged a total of 29 Olive Ridley nests in Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg districtsLocals appointed by the state forest department operate hatcheries for sea turtle conservation in these districts. Experts fear that 2,000-3,000 Olive Ridley eggs, which were to hatch this month, may be lost owing to the damage. HT had reported, on May 9, that the number of Olive Ridley nests doubled this year in state. During nesting season (which runs from December to March), a total of 451 nesting sites were recorded, up from 288 during the same period last year. “Fortunately, most of the eggs have already hatched during April and May. Some nests which had not hatched, were significantly damaged on Monday due to the cyclone,” said Harshal Karve, a marine biologist with the Mangrove Foundation.In Ratnagiri, these include nine nests on Kolthare beach, eight nests in Guhagar, two nests in Dabhol and one each on Karde, Velas, Anjarle and Gaohkhadi. The hatchery in Kolthare alone was incubating an estimated 861 eggs, while Guhagar had about 776 eggs. At Sindhudurg’s Vayangani and Shiroda beaches, four and two nests, respectively, were damaged.Though forest department officers had fenced the nests and covered them with tarpaulin, the sheer strength of tidal waves and torrential rains on Monday could not keep water out of the hatcheries. “The season for hatching is not over yet. We are going to continue to watch over the nests for another two weeks, but it is unlikely that the eggs will hatch. Existing literature shows that freshly laid eggs, and even eggs on the verge of hatching, suffer complete mortality when exposed to any flooding over a period of 24 to 48 hours,” said Karve. Mangrove Foundation on Tuesday morning also received an information about common dolphins, including one juvenile, being stranded at Murud-Janjira beach in Raigad district. Though officials did not reach the spot, local fishermen were instructed on how to release them back into the sea. “The dolphins were successfully released. There are no other reports of stranded cetaceans or other marine animals due to cyclone,” said Virendra Tiwari, additional principal chief conservator of forests, Mangrove Foundation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cyclone-tauktae-damages-olive-ridley-nests-in-maharashtra-at-least-2-000-eggs-feared-lost-101621365134144.html
19-05-2021||Mumbai||IITs help students with medical, financial aid during pandemic||As Covid-19 cases continue to rise in several parts of the country, various Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs) are helping students financially to tide through medical emergencies.Many IITs have set up benevolent funds, raising funds from alumni networks, to help their students pay for hospitals, oxygen cylinders and ventilators. Last week, IIT Kanpur launched a donation drive ‘Covid-19 Relief Fund’ for the purpose.IIT-Bombay (IIT-B), is currently undertaking a student survey to identify those who are in financial emergencies or have lost earning members of families. Students are being primarily classified into three categories- those who have tested positive and are under economic distress, those who haven’t tested positive but are in financial distress, and those whose family members have tested positive and are in financial distress.“We will soon kick off a drive to raise funds from alumni to take care of such students. On a priority basis, students from these categories will be provided with help to pay for their fees and other charges,” said Tapanendu Kundu, professor and dean, student affairs, IIT-B. This is aside from the benevolent fund that takes care of students with their hostel and mess charges.Since the pandemic broke out last year, IIT Madras has formed a Covid Relief Fund to support students and faculty who are in distress due to the medical exigencies caused by the pandemic. “In the last financial year (FY’21), IIT Madras raised as much as Rs. 96 lakh to cater to the Covid relief requirements of students and employees of IIT Madras. There is also a clear proposal to upgrade the medical infrastructure within the campus to cater to any potential requirements that may arise as it re-opens the campus to receive students, as and when the lockdown conditions are lifted and the threat of the pandemic eases out,” said professor Mahesh Panchagnula, dean (alumni and corporate relations), IIT Madras.Besides this, IIT Madras launched campaigns to raise funds for procuring oxygen concentrators in the United States of America. The Institute exceeded its goal of raising $1 million in 48 hours.“The total funds raised is $1.25 million (as of 10th May 2021). The institute has also received close to ₹15 lakh from Indian alumni. In the first phase, the institute plans to donate oxygen concentrators to the government of Tamil Nadu. Its senior alumni who are IAS officers and working with the government are helping the institute to coordinate the whole gamut of activities. These oxygen concentrators will subsequently be deployed in government hospitals. The institute plans to extend support to other state governments in the subsequent phases as it continues to receive donations from alumni,” Panchagnula added.IIT Delhi director V Ramgopal Rao said the institute set up a benevolent fund last year. “We have spent over ₹30 lakhs from this fund to support everyone dependent on the institute since April last year. We need to do more,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/iits-help-students-with-medical-financial-aid-during-pandemic-101621365074712.html
19-05-2021||Mumbai||Cyclone Tauktae: Maha CM seeks financial aid from Centre||Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray sought financial assistance from the Centre on Tuesday after cyclone Tauktae, an extremely severe cyclonic storm that skirted the western coastline between May 16 and 17, left at least 18 people dead in Maharashtra, destroyed more than 9,000 hectares of farmland and caused damage to properties across several districts of the state. Thackeray spoke to Union home minister Amit Shah over the phone to apprise him of the storm which made landfall between Porbandar and Mahuva in Gujarat late Monday night. A state cabinet meeting will be held on Wednesday following which the government is expected to announce a relief package. Relief and rehabilitation minister Vijay Wadettiwar held a review meeting as authorities of 10 districts, including coastal Ratnagiri, Sindhudurg and Raigad assessed the losses on Tuesday, due to havoc caused by the cyclone that intensified into an extremely severe category early Monday morning. Of the 16 deaths, 14 were from seven coastal districts, while two were in Jalgaon in north Maharashtra. 13.415 people from five coastal districts, Raigad (8,409), Ratnagiri (4,563), Sindhudurg (190), Palghar (200), Thane (530) were shifted to safer places. They have now started returning to their houses.“Apart from completing the spot assessment of the losses, the district administration should also ensure that the repair works of the houses and other structures be completed before the monsoon was set in. The relief should be extended to the people at the earliest. We are directing the district administration to give exemptions from the Covid-19 curbs to the shops and establishments that supply the material required for the repair and maintenance of the damaged structures,” he said. Wadettiwar said that a memorandum for the central relief will soon be sent to the Centre. The Indian Army also launched columns to assist civil administration in cyclone-hit areas, which included moving trees and debris from roads to enable toe movement of essential supplies and civil vehicles Ratnagiri, Raigad and Sindhudurg districts were badly hit with at least 3,783 structures including houses, and government buildings reported as being partially or fully damaged, even as high-speed winds, which reached up to 185kmph gusting to 200kmph, damaged power infrastructure and plunged large tracts of these districts into darkness. An official release by the state said that the storm disrupted power supply to 4.64 million consumers in Thane, Raigad, Palghar, Ratnagiri, Sindhudurg and other districts of Maharashtra. The electricity supply of 3.41 million consumers has been successfully restored, it stated. On Monday, a total of 5,500 electricity poles fell, transmission cables got snapped, and feeders tripped due to heavy rains coupled with high-speed winds. Maharashtra Energy Minister Nitin Raut earlier said 13,172 staffers are working tirelessly to restore the supply of the remaining consumers. Roughly 30% of the villages in Raigad and Ratnagiri and other affected districts were yet to have their power supply returned late Tuesday evening after damage to transformers, sub stations and electricity poles. Internet services were disrupted, and officials said that it was likely to take a few more days to restore connectivity. In all, 3,571 villages and 215,266 people were affected in seven coastal districts that were hit by the storm. At least 17,657 structures were partially or fully damaged and crop and horticulture on 8,830 hectares – including orchards growing Alphonso mangoes and Chickoo fruit -- was damaged, across these districts. Three fisherfolk in Sindhudurg died after their boats capsized in rough sea. Five persons were killed in Thane and Palghar districts in various incidents related to the cyclonic storm, including a 51-year-old auto-rickshaw driver who was killed after a tree fell on his vehicle on Monday, and a 40-year-old man who died after being crushed by cement blocks that fell from the roof of a house due to high winds. Raigad district bore the brunt of the storm for the second year in a row, as four persons died in separate incidents due to the storm. Last June, severe cyclonic storm Nisarga had caused widescale damage in this coastal district, as it made landfall between Diveagar and Shrivardhan, left at least six dead, 16 injured and nearly 13000 hectares of cropland damaged in northern parts of the state as well as its coastal districts. The four fatalities in Raigad district on Monday occurred in the incidents of falling of a tree and collapse of a wall in Uran and Roha. Altogether, 8,383 people from 2,299 families were shifted to safer places in Raigad district till Monday night. District Collector Nidhi Chaudhary has directed all tehsildars to assess the damage caused by the cyclone. At least 200 people from 57 families from Vasai taluka were evacuated to safety on Monday, the Palghar collector said. MSEDCL superintending engineer Kiran Nagavkar said nine of the total 38 sub-stations in the Palghar district were affected due to the cyclone. He said the work to restore power slowed down as transmission cables got snapped after trees fell on them due to high-speed winds. The state requested the Centre for assistance from its Cyclone Risk Mitigation Programme and to deploy a team to assess losses, at the earliest. Shah spoke to the Thackeray, as well as his Gujarat counterpart Vijay Rupani and Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot to take stock of the situation in their states after the landfall of cyclone Tauktae, and extended support of the Union government in aiding and mitigating challenges, officials said. (With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cyclone-tauktae-maha-cm-seeks-financial-aid-from-centre-101621365074107.html
19-05-2021||Other||‘Cyclone Tauktae damages 5,000ha farmland damaged in Raigad’||While the proceedings of damage estimation by Cyclone Tauktae is still under way, the preliminary assessment by the Raigad district administration has revealed a damage of 5,000 hectares of farmland.Alibag, Shrivardhan, Mhasla and Poladpur talukas have been hit hardest by the cyclone. Around 6,026 houses in the district have been partially damaged and 10 houses have been completely damaged. Four people were killed and seven others injured, and no one was reported missing. Besides, two cattle have died.Raigad Collector, Nidhi Choudhary, said, “No roads are closed at present as the administration took immediate action in clearing those where trees, branches, and poles fell during the cyclone. The damage estimates are preliminary and the final report will take a few more days. Approximately 5,000 hectares of agricultural land has been damaged in the district, mainly mango, coconut and paddy. However, unlike Cyclone Nisarga, the trees were not damaged this time, only the fruits were damaged.”MSEDCL’s 168 high tension poles, 426 low tension poles and 12 transformers were also damaged by the cyclone. Of the 1960 villages in the district, power was restored in 1,299 villages while restoration work was still under way in 661 villages, which have a combined population of around 1.6 lakh.Raigad has 99 Covid centres that were working with the help of generators. Electricity supply in 92 hospitals was restored. “Power in the remaining seven was also restored but got tripped again. They have a double generator back up and the restoration work is on,” Choudhary added.The fishing community, too, has borne the brunt of the cyclone. Around 125 fishing nets and 150 boats in the district have been partially damaged.Raigad Guardian Minister, Aditi Tatkare, visited Raigad on Tuesday to take stock of the damage. “The experience from last year’s Cyclone Nisarga helped the administration in preparing well this time. Comparatively, the damages are less this year,” Tatkare said. 153 trees fall in Navi Mumbai (SUBHEAD)Meanwhile, in Navi Mumbai, 153 trees fell in two days including 31 on Monday night. No one suffered injuries, adds Pranab Jyoti Bhuyan.“A shop in Ghansoli caught fire due to an electric short circuit, possibly triggered by the storm in the early hours of Tuesday. The officials from Koparkhairane fire station reached there on time and doused the fire. No casualties were reported,” said an official from Navi Mumbai’s disaster management cell.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cyclone-tauktae-damages-5-000ha-farmland-damaged-in-raigad-101621365014662.html
19-05-2021||Mumbai||Alphonso farms in Konkan badly damaged by Cyclone Tauktae||With Konkan coast, home to the popular Alphonso mangoes, battered by Cyclone Tauktae, the mango plantation is badly damaged as gusty winds and heavy rain lashed the area.Already hit by a drop in production because of climatic conditions and slowed down market, amid the Covid-19 pandemic, the mango growers in Ratnagiri, Sindhudurg and Raigad sustained huge losses after the cyclone.The tree plantation of areca nut, coconuts and even chikoo in parts of the coastal districts on hectares of land have also been destroyed, leading to losses to the farmers.“I have a list of many mango growers whose hundreds of trees have been uprooted and thousands of fruits ready to harvest or market, have been destroyed.”“They will be literally on the roads because of the loans they borrowed from the banks for cultivation. The losses to the mango growers from these districts are expected to be  ₹500 crore as per the rough estimate,” said Sanjay Yadavrao, Konkan Bhumi Pratisthan, the organisation engaged in the promotion of the tourism and business activities in Konkan.Yadavrao said that the mango production was about 25% of its annual average owing to changes in weather and unseasonal rains, besides the drop in demand and logistical constraints in the market amid the pandemic. “The economy of the coastal districts of Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg, Raigad is dependent on tourism, mango business and fishing with the annual collective turnover of ₹19,000 crore. The consecutive cyclones over the last three years have destroyed this economy completely.” “It’s time for the government to give a stimulus package to the people engaged in these sectors as they give it for sugar factories in Western Maharashtra,” he said.Umang Salvi, a mango grower who has orchards of more than 4,000 trees said he sustained the loss of around ₹15 lakh due to the cyclone. “At least 1,000 crates full of mangoes were ready to market, but the stock is damaged in the cyclone on Monday. Hundreds of trees have either been uprooted or damaged badly which would affect their production capacity for the next few years,” he said.Like mango growers, the fisherfolk in coastal areas along the 720-km shore of the state have sustained losses because of the damages to fishing nets, trawlers, boats and watched away fish. “Dozens of anchored boats have been damaged by collision during the cyclone in each of the koliwadas in these districts. This is the end of the season when tonnes of fish are kept for drying to market during monsoon. Tonnes of such stock has been washed away and we even would not be able to claim the losses for it as there is no proof left behind to the claims,” said Rajhans Tapke, general secretary of Koli Masangh.Tapke said that the state government gave them peanuts as compensation after Cyclone Nisarga last year||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/alphonso-farms-in-konkan-badly-damaged-by-cyclone-tauktae-101621365014073.html
19-05-2021||Mumbai||Ventilators in a’bad: Cong alleges scam; health ministry refutes claims||Citing the hospital’s report, the Maharashtra Congress alleged that ventilators supplied to the Aurangabad Government Medical College and Hospital were useless and of substandard quality. Congress spokesperson Sachin Sawant called it a scam, saying all efforts were being made to save the accused firm from Gujarat which supplied these ventilators. The Union health ministry has refuted the allegations, saying the ventilators were not funded under the PM Care Fund. The Aurangabad Government Medical College’s committee formed to investigate the matter gave the following observations. “100 ventilators had arrived in the hospital on April 12 this year. The engineers who had come on that day were able to install just one ventilator which again was found not suitable to be used for patients. After that they installed 25 ventilators on April 18 in the ICU. However, these were found to be faulty as the patients were not getting enough oxygen supply from them and hence were not of much help to the patients. After that the engineers came again on April 23 and tried to start two machines in the ICU but they too failed,” it stated. Sawant, quoting the report, said it was shameful that when the state is fighting the Covid-19 pandemic, such incidents were taking place. “The company had no experience in making ventilators and still was given the contract just because of its links with the BJP,” said Sawant. He has demanded a joint audit by the central and state government and inquiry by the state government. He said that 58 machines have been opened and are lying idle while 37 were still to be opened. The Union Health Ministry’s statement on Friday said: “Ventilators manufactured by Jyoti CNC were supplied to Aurangabad Medical College. Jyoti CNC is one of the manufacturers of Make in India Ventilators. They have supplied ventilators centrally for Covid-19 management, as per the directions of Empowered Group-3. These ventilators were then made available to states as per their requests. This supplier is not funded under PM CARES fund.” Sawant called the whole statement misleading. “If the state did not pay, how come these ventilators came,” asked Sawant. The BJP has refuted the allegations saying it has become a fashion to blame the central government. “The Maharashtra government is unable to tackle the Covid-19 pandemic and it has become a fashion to blame the central government for all its shortcomings. The central government is extending maximum help but the state is ungrateful,” said BJP legislator Ram Kadam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ventilators-in-a-bad-cong-alleges-scam-health-ministry-refutes-claims-101621364954113.html
19-05-2021||Other||Thane crime branch seizes 12K gelatin sticks, 3,008 electronic detonators in Bhiwandi||In a major breakthrough, Thane crime branch’s unit-1 on Monday arrested a 53-year-old quarry contractor and seized 12,000 gelatin sticks and 3,008 electronic detonators from his office and storeroom at Bhiwandi. The accused, Gurunath Kashinath Mhatre, had stocked the explosive materials without permission from collector or local authorities. The police said Ananda Bhilare, a constable posted with unit 1, had received information about the explosives being stored at an office in Bhiwandi. Following this, senior inspector Krishna Kokani formed a team and raided Mhatre’s office Mittal Enterprise at Kharivali village. The team found gelatin sticks and detonators in huge quantities, worth ₹2.02 lakh. “We found the explosives at his office and adjoining store room. He didn’t have any permission to store it. We are further investigating further,” said Kokani.A case had been registered against Mhatre at Bhoiwada police station in Bhiwandi under section 286 (negligent conduct with respect to explosive substance) of the Indian Penal Code and section 5 (punishment for making or possessing explosives under suspicious circumstances) of the Explosive Substance Act, 1908. “Mhatre has been remanded in police custody till May 22,” said deputy commissioner of police from Thane crime branch Laxmikant Patil.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/thane-crime-branch-seizes-12k-gelatin-sticks-3-008-electronic-detonators-in-bhiwandi-101621364835274.html
19-05-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai court refuses bail to sr executive of firm floated by Nirav Modi||A special CBI (Central Bureau of Investigation) court on Monday rejected the bail plea of a senior executive of Firestar International – a firm floated by fugitive diamantaire Nirav Modi. The executive, Arjun Patil, had sought interim bail as he was infected with Covid-19. However, the court rejected his plea on the grounds that the state is taking “sincere efforts” to protect the health of the inmates.Patil was arrested in February 2018 by CBI for his alleged role in preparing applications for fraudulent letters of undertaking (LoUs) submitted to Punjab National Bank (PNB).Patil was shifted to GT Hospital on April 30 for treatment after he was found infected with the virus. His lawyer argued that following the illness, Patil has lost tremendous weight and is suffering from severe weakness, and hence, is unable to take care of himself.The lawyer further alleged that the chances of him recovering from the weakness are very low as the jail authorities are not taking proper treatment and care of the inmates and there is no proper hygiene in the jail.The plea was objected by CBI on the grounds that the recommendation/guidelines issued by the state’s high-power committee to release accused on interim bail are not applicable to Patil.The court, while rejecting the bail plea after considering arguments of both the sides, noted that the state is taking sincere efforts to protect the health of inmates. The court also noted that Patil is being treated at GT Hospital, which is a renowned hospital run by the Maharashtra government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-court-refuses-bail-to-sr-executive-of-firm-floated-by-nirav-modi-101621364834730.html
19-05-2021||Other||FB user booked for downloading Salman Khan’s Radhe, selling its pirated version||Mumbai The cyber police station have registered a first information report (FIR) against a Facebook user for allegedly illegal downloading Salman Khan-starrer ‘Radhe — Your Most Wanted Bhai’ from Zee Entertainment Enterprises (ZEE) Limited’s app and then selling the pirated version of the film on WhatsApp for ₹50.The FIR was registered at the central region cyber police station, Worli, on Monday by Sucheta Burman, 50, ZEE’s chief legal consultant.Owing to the pandemic, the movie was released on ZEE’s OTT (over-the-top) platform and a few theatres which are permitted by the local authorities to remain open.ZEE bought the broadcast rights of the film on February 26 from production company Salman Khan Ventures Limited. To prevent the piracy of the film, the company signed an agreement with five anti-piracy agencies. It also secured the John Doe order – to take action against unidentified offender/s – from Madras high court on May 12 to prevent the violation of intellectual property rights of the movie by means of piracy.According to the police, the film was released in Dubai on May 12 and aired in India the next day on Zee5 app. On the evening of May 13, Aparna Desai, the marketing head of the Khan’s company, informed ZEE that the film is being illegally released on WhatsApp in five parts.ZEE contacted anti-piracy agency Alplex Software Pvt Ltd, which informed them that two mobile numbers are being used to send the pirated version of the movie on WhatsApp. The agency also sent a notice to WhatsApp requesting them to pull down the pirated videos of the film from the messaging platform, the FIR stated.Next day, the complainant company discovered that a Facebook user, Ashwani Raghav, has uploaded an advertisement with the film’s poster on his Facebook account. The advertisement stated that those interested can take the movie from him for ₹50 through WhatsApp, the police said.To verify this, an executive from ZEE’s distribution team contacted Raghav on the given number and expressed his desire to get the movie. Raghav asked him to transfer ₹50 on PayTM. After sending the money, the executive soon received the pirated version of the film in five parts from Raghav’s WhatsApp number, stated the FIR.ZEE then contacted a France-based forensic lab for help. The lab informed the company that the film was downloaded from Zee5 using a software. Following this, ZEE lodged the police complaint on Monday.“A case under the relevant sections of the Information Technology Act and Copyright Act has been registered against Raghav and the users of two mobile numbers. Details on suspects are being gathered,” said an officer from the central region cyber police station.ZEE in a statement stated, “People engaged in spreading the illegal version of the film are not just embracing piracy, but are also negatively impacting the growth of the industry and the livelihoods of the people working for it round the clock.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/fb-user-booked-for-downloading-salman-khan-s-radhe-selling-its-pirated-version-101621364834071.html
19-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra receives 300,000 doses from Centre for its vaccination drive||Maharashtra on Tuesday received a stock of 300,000 doses from the Central government, allowing it to continue its vaccination drive for 45 years and above for a few more days. However, the drive will have to be limited, officials said. The state inoculated 104,313 beneficiaries on Tuesday, according to the Co-Win portal.For the past two days, the state was inoculating less than 100,000 beneficiaries, as the state had limited stock till Monday. On May 16 and 17, the state administered doses to 68,800 and 99,699 beneficiaries, respectively. It has already suspended the vaccination drive for the 18-44 age group and diverted 310,000 doses of Covaxin for the second dose for those above 45 years of age last week. “We have received 200,000 doses of Covishield and 100,000 doses of Covaxin today,” confirmed Dr Archana Patil, director, Directorate Of Health Services.On April 26, the state set a record of inoculating 534,228 beneficiaries in a day. On Monday, it became the first state to cover 20 million beneficiaries across the country. In all, the state has covered total 20,200,747 beneficiaries till Tuesday, according to the Co-Win portal.“Till Monday, we were left with only 380,000 doses (300,000 Covishield and 80,000 Covaxin) that were distributed across the state. Today, we have received another stock of 300,000 of doses but as we don’t know when the next stock is going to come, we will have to continue the drive in the restricted manner,” said a senior official, requesting anonymity.The Union ministry of health and family welfare said it will provide 19.99 million doses of Covishield and Covaxin from May 16-31 to all the states and union territories for free. This includes 16.25 million doses of Covishield and 2.949 million doses of Covaxin, stated a release of ministry of health and family welfare issued on May 14. However, it did not mention a detailed bifurcation of allocation to the states. “The delivery schedule for this allocation will be shared in advance,” it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-receives-300-000-doses-from-centre-for-its-vaccination-drive-101621364774666.html
19-05-2021||Other||ED to record petitioner’s statement today in case against ex-Maharashtra min Anil Deshmukh||Mumbai The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has summoned advocate Jaishri Patil on Wednesday to record her statement in connection with the money laundering case registered against former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh. Patil is one of the petitioners who had approached the Bombay high court seeking a CBI (Central Bureau of Investigation) probe against Deshmukh after former Mumbai Police chief Param Bir Singh alleged that the Nationalist Congress Party leader ran an ‘extortion racket’ in Mumbai.“As the case against Deshmukh is mainly based on my petition, ED has summoned me to record my statement, which would hold key importance in the case. I would be visiting ED’s office on Wednesday morning,” Patil said.ED on Tuesday also recorded statement of another petitioner in the case. ED may soon call Param Bir Singh to record his statement, ED sources indicated.The officials would also summon Deshmukh and his personal staff soon. On April 24, CBI officers had carried out raids at Deshmukh’s residences in Nagpur and Mumbai as well as at his personal assistant Sanjeev Palande’s premises and seized digital devices.The PMLA (Prevention of Money Laundering Act) case against Deshmukh is based on CBI’s first information report (FIR) registered against him last month. On April 21, CBI said it had found “prima facie evidence” against Deshmukh for allegedly misusing his position, and booked him for corruption and criminal conspiracy. Unlike CBI, the federal anti-money laundering agency, can record statements of any person in a case under PMLA’s Section 50 and it is admissible as evidence in court.NCP had previously dismissed ED’s case as politically motivated. The party claims that the case registered by ED or allegations levelled by Singh is an attempt to defame the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi government by using power. CBI’s case came a month after Singh accused Deshmukh of using the Mumbai Police for extortion from bars, hotels, and restaurants. CBI is probing Singh’s allegations as well as Deshmukh’s handing over of important cases to former assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze and influencing transfers and postings.In a letter to Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray in March, Singh had alleged that Deshmukh asked Vaze to collect ₹100 crore every month from bars, restaurants, hotels and other establishments in Mumbai. The letter was written after Singh was transferred for allegedly mismanaging the Antilia case, in which an explosives-laden SUV was found outside industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s house in February.The National Investigation Agency (NIA) arrested Vaze in connection with the case as well as the murder of Thane trader Mansukh Hiran – who was was linked to the vehicle.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ed-to-record-petitioner-s-statement-today-in-case-against-ex-maharashtra-min-anil-deshmukh-101621364774062.html
19-05-2021||Mumbai||PIL challenging cancellation of SSC exams, delays HSC decision||A recent public interest litigation (PIL) challenging the cancellation of Class 10 (SSC) board exams in the state has delayed the education department’s decision concerning Class 12 (HSC) exams that are scheduled at the end of this month.Officials at the state education department said that while it seems like the HSC exams cannot be conducted as per the earlier schedule due to rising Covid-19 cases and the resultant lockdown, a decision regarding this cannot be taken with the recent PIL. The major bone of contention is the fact that the rulebook of the Maharashtra State Board does not consist of a provision to cancel exams altogether under any circumstance. “Exam cancellation and alternate assessments are thus likely to be challenged even in future. This rule needs to be amended to ensure that there is an exception created for the current situation,” said an official on the condition of anonymity.Dhananjay Kulkarni, a retired teacher from Pune had recently moved the Bombay high court (HC) challenging the cancellation of exams by various boards including SSC, CBSE and ICSE. The petitioner said that this could lead to problems in Class 11 admissions as different boards will declare results based on different formulae. Meanwhile, the Indiawide Parents Association filed an intervention application in the court stating that offline exams are risky for students.While the state education department had earlier announced that the exams for Class 12 will be held at the end of May, it has not declared the timetable even now, barely a few days to go for the month to end. This has led to a large number of parents and students anxious. “We understand that this is not an easy decision because there are legal and technical hurdles involved, but in the absence of a timely decision, students are just waiting endlessly. Their future is at stake and a decision should be made as early as possible,” said Siddharth Shah, a Kandivli based parent.Nearly 15 lakh students appear for the HSC exam every year while around 17 lakh students appear for SSC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/pil-challenging-cancellation-of-ssc-exams-delays-hsc-decision-101621364714846.html
19-05-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai reports 961 fresh Covid cases||Reporting below 1,000 Covid-19 cases in a single day for the first time since March 2, Mumbai on Tuesday recorded 961 fresh infections and 44 deaths due to the virus, taking the tally to 690,023 and the toll to 14,316. The testing numbers, however, were low. On Monday, Mumbai conducted 17,920 Covid-19 tests, with a daily positivity rate of 5.3%. There are now 31,790 active cases in Mumbai. So far, Mumbai has conducted 5,934,165 tests, with an overall positivity rate of 11.8%. About 35% to 40% of the tests conducted per day are rapid antigen tests, which on an average have a lower positivity rate than RT-PCR tests. On March 2, Mumbai reported 849 new cases, following which, the figures of cases reported per day began to increase. According to experts and authorities, the second wave began around March 11. The highest number of cases reported in Mumbai so far was on April 4 (11,204 cases). However, in the past two weeks, the number of cases in the city has gone down steadily, and the positivity rate has also dropped to 6-8%, from the previous 18-20% reported in April and first week of May. Positivity rate is the percentage of tests that are positive.Mumbai’s recovery rate is now 93% and the overall growth rate is now 0.27%, and the doubling rate has now gone up to 255 days. So far in May, Mumbai has reported a total of 41,552 cases, as opposed to 164,713 infections reported in the same period in April. About 59% of the total active cases in the city at present are asymptomatic patients, 36% are symptomatic, and about 3% are critical cases.Out of the 31,306 beds in Mumbai, 17,745 are available. 384 ICU beds and 85 ventilator beds are vacant, according to information from Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-reports-961-fresh-covid-cases-101621364654706.html
19-05-2021||Mumbai||Maha sees 28,438 new Covid cases||Maharashtra on Tuesday reported 28,438 fresh Covid-19 cases, taking the tally to 5,433,506. The daily positivity rate in the state is on a constant decline since May 8, showing the drop in viral activity. However, health experts said some districts still show high positivity rate, while some of the districts have shown a sharp decline. Mumbai reported under-1,000 cases after 77 days with 961 fresh cases on Tuesday. The city’s low numbers are due to a drop in testing on Monday, due to cyclone Tauktae that brushed past the city on Monday. The city’s death toll rose by 44, taking it to 14,316, while its active case load came down to 31,790. The state’s active caseload reduced to 419,727, while the death toll rose to 83,777 with 679 fatalities on Tuesday. With the data reconciliation, 612 deaths have been added to the cumulative death tally, the state health department said. A chunk of the fatalities reported on Tuesday came from Kolhapur which reported 130 deaths (115 in rural Kolhapur, 15 in Kolhapur city), in the past 24 hours. Vasai-Virar, on the outskirts of Mumbai, reported 58 deaths. Satara reported 34 deaths, while Beed saw 27 fatalities. Of the 679 deaths reported on Tuesday, 422 occurred in the past 48 hours and 257 in the past week. In the past 24 hours, the state tested 250,310 samples and had a positivity rate of 11.36%. Since May 8, the daily positivity rate in the state has seen a consistent drop from 22.56% to 11.35% on May 17. On Tuesday, the state saw a marginal increase. In the first week of May, the daily positivity rate swung between 22.97% (May 3) and 20.64% (May 5). The overall positivity rate in the state stood at 17.2%, which means for every 100 samples tested the state records 17 positive cases. The overall positivity rate in the state too has shown a decline since April when it was 27.5% on April 6. Health experts and state health department officials said the decline is a positive sign for the state, however, it will take three weeks more for some “normalcy” to return. Dr Subhash Salunkhe, former director-general of health services and advisor to the state on Covid-19, said that while the state’s positivity is reducing, some districts are still not. “Some districts like Mumbai, Thane and Pune are showing sharp decline in positivity rate, but there are many districts which are not showing a downward trend yet,” Salunkhe said. According to state health department officials, districts such as Satara, Sangli, Sindhudurg, Buldhana, Kolhapur, Beed and Ahmednagar still show viral activity. “These districts are recording higher cases and have high positivity rate. While the overall rate is witnessing a drop, it will take two-three weeks to regain normalcy. The viral activity will go on for that period, so we cannot let our guard down,” the officer said, who did not wish to be named. On Monday, Kolhapur district saw 1,501 fresh cases, while Ahmednagar saw 2,045 new cases. Beed saw 1,295 fresh Covid cases and Amravati district saw 1,041. Satara saw 1,270 new cases, while Sangli district saw 1905 new cases. Over 80% of the new cases from these districts are from the rural part of the districts, while the urban areas are not reporting as many cases, data showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maha-sees-28-438-new-covid-cases-101621364654159.html
19-05-2021||Other||CG rescue all 137 from a stranded barge off Palghar||The Coast Guard (CG) on Tuesday rescued all 137 crew onboard GAL Constructor, a barge of the Oil and Natural Gas Commission (ONGC) which ran aground in Palghar, 48 nautical miles off Colaba, on Monday due to Cyclone Tauktae. The rescue operation started on Tuesday morning and by evening the mission was accomplished, said a Coast Guard official. The barge was drifting towards the North after it lost power due to Cyclone Tauktae which created havoc since Monday.Commander Mehul Karnik, chief public relation officer, Coast Guard, said three Chetak choppers from CG base at Daman swung into action and reached the spot, along with CG ship Samrat and a Naval chopper amid very rough and inclement weather conditions due to the cyclone. Some of the rescued crew were given medical treatment at an English medium school at Mahim (not Mumbai) for any sea-related ailments, said Dr Kalpana Mavchi, medical officer. The Palghar district collector Dr Manek Gursal also reached the spot to supervise the rescue mission.Chopper makes emergency landingAn Indian Navy chopper made an emergency landing at Pali village in Bhayander on Tuesday morning due to inclement weather with gusty winds and rains. Senior inspector Prashant Langi of Uttan Coastal police station said the chopper with two member crew took off from the Naval base in Colaba on Tuesday morning for surveillance, when near Uttan the chopper faced low visibility and the pilot landed the helicopter at Pali jetty in Uttan. There was also a huge crowd at the jetty to see the helicopter and we offered drinking water to the crew before it took flight said Langi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cg-rescue-all-137-from-a-stranded-barge-off-palghar-101621364475353.html
19-05-2021||Mumbai||3 jumbo centres in Mumbai to be shut for 2 weeks||A day after a cyclone passed the city, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Tuesday said three jumbo centres – Bandra-Kurla Complex (BKC), Dahisar and Mulund – will remain shut for admission of Covid-19 patients for nearly two weeks, as the centres are being made monsoon-ready. Sanjeev Jaiswal, additional municipal commissioner, held a meeting the heads of nine departments, including storm water drainage, solid waste management, mechanical and electrical department, fire department, etc. The three jumbo centres have over 3,000 Covid beds, including oxygen, ICU and ventilators.Jaiswal told HT, “In the past one year, we never got all three jumbo centres empty. But this time, due to the cyclone, we shifted the patients, which has given us a chance to undertake all preventive repair and maintenance works. There was no damage to the jumbo centres. We are now going to act on the recommendation of our consultant who had, before the cyclone, submitted a structural audit report. In this report, several recommendations were made, which will now be executed to make the three jumbo centres monsoon-ready.”According to BMC officials, the works include sanitation of the area, changing water pipelines at several spots, fixing leakages, storm water works, sewage related issues, flooring works and installing additional ropes to the hangars to ensure the makeshift hospital sustains longer.The BMC over Saturday night and Sunday shifted over 500 Covid patients to nearby hospitals namely SevenHills and NESCO jumbo centres, considering there was a threat of damage owing to the high wind speed.Meanwhile, although shut for patients, the BKC jumbo centre will remain operational for vaccination. “Vaccination at Mulund and Dahisar jumbo centres will remain shut for now. However, the BKC jumbo centre will continue with the vaccination drive.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/3-jumbo-centres-in-mumbai-to-be-shut-for-2-weeks-101621364474742.html
19-05-2021||Mumbai||City may see drizzles, thundershowers: IMD||Light rain and isolated thundershowers are likely to be felt at isolated locations across the city till Wednesday night, as per the India Meteorological Department’s forecast for the day. Thane and Palghar districts are also likely to see light to moderate rain on Wednesday, while the southern leg of the Konkan coast will continue seeing light rain. Cyclone Tauktae, which passed Mumbai on Monday after rapidly intensifying into a Category 4 cyclonic storm, made landfall in Gujarat on Monday night, and its influence on city weather is likely to fizzle out by Thursday morning, when clear and sunny skies are expected to take over. Partly cloudy, overcast skies were reported across the city on Tuesday as well, for the third consecutive day. As per the IMD’s automatic weather station in Santacruz, the city had received about 230mm of rain until 8:30am on Tuesday, surpassing the previous 24-hour rainfall record (190mm in May 2000). The IMD’s AWS in Colaba, meanwhile, saw 207mm of rain in the 24-hour period up to 8:30am on Tuesday, breaking the May 2000 record of 190.8mm. Both observatories have recorded rain in the month of May only for the second time in a decade. The last was 3mm of rainfall in May 2017. Meanwhile, some parts of the city registered over 300mm of rainfall within 24 hours (as of 8:30am), including Borivli and Juhu, as reported by independent meteorologists. Other districts received more torrential rainfall, such as Ratnagiri, which got 364mm of rainfall within just 15 hours, between Sunday night and Monday morning. Palghar, lying north of Mumbai, recorded 298mm rain in 15 hours between Monday and Tuesday. The city woke up to a minimum temperature of 23.7°Celsius (four degrees below normal) following heavy rain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/city-may-see-drizzles-thundershowers-imd-101621364414035.html
19-05-2021||Other||Vaccination to resume after Telangana gets sufficient doses: Govt||Hyderabad The Telangana government announced on Tuesday that it would resume vaccination programme in the state only after acquiring sufficient stocks of vaccine from the producers as per the allocation made by the Centre. State director of medical and health G Srinivasa Rao told reporters that the vaccination programme had not been taking place for the last three days due to inadequate stock of Covaxin and non-receipt of fresh stocks from the Union ministry of health and family welfare. He, however, refused to divulge the quantity of vaccine available with the state and when the vaccination programme would be resumed. “We do not want to take up vaccination with the limited stocks and stop the programme abruptly due to lack of arrival of fresh stocks. This will lead to periodical interruptions in the vaccination programme and create confusion among the people due to uncertainty in the vaccine availability,” Rao said. He said chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao had given clear instructions that vaccination programme could be stopped for a few days and resumed only after sufficient stocks were available. “We are also floating global tenders this evening to mobilise sufficient quantity of vaccine at the earliest,” the health director said. On Tuesday, Telangana reported 3,982 Covid-19 positive cases and 27 deaths. “The recovery rate in the state is 90.47 per cent, as against the national average of 85.6 per cent,” Rao said. Director of medical education Dr Ramesh Reddy said the state government had decided to step up the medical infrastructure in the state to face any pandemic in the coming years. “The chief minister has approved setting up of six new medical colleges in the state at Sangareddy, Jagtial, Kothagudem, Wanaparthy, Mancherial, and Mahabubabad, besides six nursing colleges, from the coming academic year,” he said. At a review meeting on Monday night, the chief minister also announced setting up of 12 regional sub-centres at Siddipet, Wanaparthy, Mahboobabad, Kothagudem, Nagarkurnool, Suryapet, Bhongir, Jagtial, Mancherial, Bhoopalpally, Vikarabad, and Gadwal, where additional facilities would be created for treating Covid-19 patients in the existing government hospitals in these areas. He said these centres would ensure supply of medicines, oxygen and other requirements to the government hospitals. He asked the medical and health department to set up 48 oxygen-generation plants in the government hospitals to produce 324 metric tonnes of oxygen required for the Covid-19 patients in the state and also to ensure that there would not be any shortage of oxygen in future. He also instructed the officials to set up an additional plant to produce 100 metric tonnes of liquid oxygen in Hyderabad. “In the coming days Telangana should not depend on other states for the supply of oxygen,” he said. The chief minister called upon the people not to rush to private hospitals for treatment and pay exorbitant fees, as there were sufficient number of beds available in the government hospitals. There are 6926 beds vacant in the government hospitals, which include 2253 oxygen beds, 533 ICU beds and 4,140 general beds. With regard to black fungus cases, the director of medical education said there was no need to get panicky as it was not contagious. “At present, there are around 50 cases in the government hospitals, besides another 30-40 in private hospitals. We have appointed a committee of experts to prepare standard treatment protocol,” Reddy said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/vaccination-to-resume-after-telangana-gets-sufficient-doses-govt-101621364354696.html
19-05-2021||Mumbai||Cyclone Tauktae: Rescued from barges P-305 and Gal constructor, survivor relive horror||“A 15-20 minute delay by the naval rescue team would have cost me my life,” said Satish Narwal, 32, one of the workers on-board P-305 – a barge carrying 273 workers on-board which got disconnected from an oil rig in Bombay High owing to the winds from cyclone Tauktae and sank about 35 nautical miles from Mumbai on Monday – who was found almost 18 hours after he jumped into the Arabian Sea. At the time of going to press, search for the remaining 93 workers was on. Narwal floated and drifted in the sea with life jacket as his only support, saying his body would have given up if the Navy team wouldn’t have reached in time. The 32-year-old, who worked as a gas cutter for seven months, didn’t expect to survive the rough sea, which is why he took care to put his Aadhaar card in his pocket before jumping into the sea. “I thought it would make it easier for the authorities to identify me, in case my body was found somewhere,” he said. On Sunday, after work, he went to his makeshift residential quarters on P-305, an accommodation barge. “We were aware of the warnings about the cyclonic storm that was likely to hit the west coast. We realised it was more windy than usual,” said Narwal, “After 10pm on Sunday, perhaps the time when the cyclone passed the city’s coast and moved towards Gujarat, the sea became very stormy. Soon, our barge got disconnected from the oil rig and started floating away. We were not worried initially, as the power supply was on and everything seemed normal. However, soon, the lights went off and water started gushing into the compartments on the barge, forcing the occupants to gather on the deck wearing life jackets in the dark.” Narwal and his co-workers waited for hours for external help. “As the water level inside the barge increased on Monday afternoon, some jumped into the rough sea, when the winds were blowing at a high speed,” said the father of two. “I could hold on till 3pm and finally jumped, with the hope that Navy or Coast Guard will come to our rescue by sunset.” Narwal stayed afloat the entire night, remembering his wife, 9-year-old son and 4-year-old daughter and every family member and friend. Soon, he felt drained, which made him disoriented. “The sunrise gave me some hope. Finally, I saw a helicopter hovering around me around 9am. I gathered all my strength and waved my right hand in air and succeeded in attracting attention of the naval rescue team,” he said. Khopoli resident Pramod Barai, 36, a senior engineer, who was on barge P-305, also had to spend hours in the sea before he was picked up by a Navy helicopter at 11.30am on Tuesday. He was so traumatised when he was brought by the naval rescue team at INS Shikra in Mumbai that he could barely speak. The nightmare ended early for Leenas Alphonse, 50, a native of Tamil Nadu, who worked on Mumbai High oil rigs as a crane operator and was on Gal constructor, another barge that was being tugged to the Mumbai harbour. On Saturday, they took their dinner early and started their journey towards Mumbai. The barge was being tied by a tugboat, to bring the 137 workers on-board to safety. On Sunday evening, rough weather disconnected the barge from the tugboat and Gal Constructor started drifting away. After floating for some distance, foreman Anand Menon put the four anchors to hold the barge in place, but the anchors broke due to high waves and gusty winds around 11pm on Sunday and the barge started drifting northward. It floated towards Satpati in Palghar district and went aground about 48 nautical miles away from Colaba. The workers on-board spent the night and day without power and food. They started worrying when water started to enter the engine room around 8pm on Monday. “I called my wife and spoke to my 23-year-old daughter on her phone. I narrated the entire sequence of events and instructed her to take care of herself and her mother, as I wasn’t expecting to survive the rough sea. Both of us cried, but my daughter promised me that she would not immediately tell her mother about the situation,” said Alphonse. The Coast Guard (CG) on Tuesday rescued all 137 crew on-board the barge.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cyclone-tauktae-rescued-from-barges-p-305-and-gal-constructor-survivor-relive-horror-101621364354105.html
19-05-2021||Mumbai||Cyclone mayhem in city: 2 killed, nine injured||Two persons died and nine were injured over a span of 24 hours as Cyclone Tauktae passed Mumbai, civic officials said on Tuesday. Two persons were reported missing and are suspected to have drowned in two separate boat accidents. Cyclone Tauktae, an extremely severe cyclonic storm (ESCS) that passed Mumbai shortly after noon on Monday, was the worst cyclone to have skirted the city in at least four decades. Tautke, which began crossing Mumbai’s latitude at about 12.37pm on Monday at a distance of about 120-130km from the coast caused huge tidal waves in the Arabian Sea that threw up heaps of garbage near the iconic Gateway of India in Apollo Bunder, Colaba. A Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) official said they picked up four trucks of garbage from the premises of the monument in south Mumbai after the storm subsided. Sangeeta Kharat (45) succumbed to her injuries following a tree collapse. The resident of BDD chawl, Worli, was injured when a banyan tree collapsed on her following which she rushed to KEM hospital for treatment. Four people were injured in Suman Nagar, Chembur, after a wall of their house which was undergoing repairs, collapsed on Monday. Three of them -- Akshay Mali (21), Sudarshan Mali (23), and Aakash Mali (26) were discharged after treatment, while Sagar Hanuman (22) is being treated at Sion hospital and is said to be in a stable condition. In Kajupada, Borivali East, Kunda Sakpal (40), Sagar Sakpal (25) and Devayani Sakpal (whose age is not known), were injured after a crane from an adjoining construction site fell on their home. They were treated at Krushna hospital and discharged. In Andheri east, a portion of a ground and one storey building collapsed, and a woman was injured. She is being treated at a private hospital, and her condition is stable, the BMC’s disaster management department said. A boat anchored near Madh Jetty was set loose, trapping five people inside. While four were rescued, one is missing. In a similar incident at Mahim causeway, a boat carrying five people was carried into the sea due to gusts of wind. While two swam back to the shore and two were rescued, and one is missing. Search operations have been suspended, the civic body said in a release on Tuesday. The storm damaged a sea-facing safety wall and iron gates near the Gateway of India and some jetty stones in the vicinity also got dislodged due to its impact, civic officials said on Tuesday. However, the main structure of the historic monument did not suffer any damage. “A number basalt stones near the Gateway of India have got dislodged with the impact of the cyclone and a small portion of the footpath there caved-in,” the official said. The area has been barricaded and the stones collected for repairs, he said. Mumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar visited the monument on Tuesday and reviewed the damage caused in the premises and the cleanliness work undertaken there by the civic body. “Two large basalt rocks were broken away from the jetty and crushed in the sea. These are capable of accomodating ten people. So we can imagine the intensity of wind and waves. The main structure of Gateway of India has not been damaged,” she said. A senior civic official of the heritage department said, “The parapet on the sea side has been damaged severely, and the iron railing that encloses the entrance on the sea side has also broken. No damage was done to the monument. Repair work has already started.” The rough sea also dumped tonnes of garbage near the iconic Marine Drive in south Mumbai, the mayor said. Residents across Mumbai complained of power outages, interrupted internet services, and disruptions in mobile phone networks even on Tuesday. The BMC’s disaster management department’s helpline number 1916 received 9,817 calls from citizens, reporting tree collapses, water logging, diverted traffic, asking for updates, and other incidents. Sion Koliwada, Matunga, Mahim, and Dharavi experienced power outages for several hours on Monday and Tuesday. “Many areas in Dharavi did not have power intermittently on Monday and Tuesday. Civic authorities carried out repair work on damaged meter boxes as trees or branches fell on them,” Tilak Singh, a resident of Dharavi said. “Our local internet was cut off on Tuesday, due severe water logging, and tree collapses on Monday,” Nikhil Desai, a resident of Matunga said. The BMC recorded water logging at 56 places as well as 43 incidents of house collapse, wall collapse or partial house collapse. The civic body also received 39 reports of short circuit, and 2,364 reports of tree collapse or branch collapse due to winds. Out of the 2,364 incidents of tree or branch collapse, 666 were reported in the island city, 595 in the eastern suburbs, and 1103 in the western suburbs. Maximum wind speed was recorded at Colaba pumping station – 114 km/hr -- followed by Britannia pumping station (107 km/hr) and Malvani (101.4 km/hr) between 8am on Monday and 8am on Tuesday. Several areas in Mumbai reported over 200mm rainfall during this same time, according to data from BMC. The mayor who visited the jumbo vaccination centre at BKC on Tuesday refuted reports of damage to the facility. (With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cyclone-mayhem-in-city-2-killed-nine-injured-101621364294585.html
19-05-2021||Other||TDP to boycott budget session to protest ‘misdeeds’ of Jagan govt||Hyderabad The Telugu Desam Party, the only opposition party in the Andhra Pradesh legislative assembly, on Tuesday announced that it would boycott the one-day budget session of the House on May 20 in protest against what it called the “unilateral, undemocratic and illogical” decisions of the YS Jagan Mohan Reddy government. The decision was taken at the Telugu Desam Legislature Party (TDLP) meeting held under the leadership of party president and former chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu through a video conference. Speaking to reporters at the party office in Guntur later, TDP state unit president and MLA K Atchannaidu said the party had decided to boycott the budget session in protest against the “misrule” of the Jagan government. “We are not boycotting the assembly, but the chief minister’s highhanded behaviour,” he said. The TDP leader pointed out that the budget session of Parliament and that of several state assemblies were held in March, when the Covid-19 pandemic was not so severe. “We asked the chief minister to hold the budget session, but he did not do it. Now, the second wave is very severe, but the government wants to hold it only because of constitutional obligation,” he said. The TDLP decided to hold a parallel mock assembly simultaneously with the state assembly session to expose what it called the failures and misdeeds of the Jagan rule. Former finance minister and MLC Yanamala Ramakrishnudu said the government had no intention of holding a meaningful discussion in the assembly on public issues like Covid-19. “Even if the TDP attends the session, the chief minister and his ministers would not give any chance for them to speak in the House. As usual, the YSRC would bulldoze and suppress the voice of the Opposition,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tdp-to-boycott-budget-session-to-protest-misdeeds-of-jagan-govt-101621364294034.html
19-05-2021||Lucknow||FIR against 12 for killing dolphin in UP’s Sitapur; one arrested||An FIR has been lodged against 12 people in Hargaon area of Sitapur on Monday for catching and killing a rare fresh water dolphin from Sharda auxiliary canal on Sunday, police said.Fresh water dolphins are categorised as endangered species in the IUCN (International Union for Conservation of Nature) red book.The FIR was lodged after a video of the incident started doing the rounds on social media, said superintendent of police of Sitapur Rakesh Prakash Singh adding that one Prithivi Sahu has been arrested and two teams have been formed to arrest the other accused.He said a group of villagers in Hargaon area caught the dolphin from the auxiliary canal, which passes through the district and is used for fishing by the locals, in the fishing net and killed it.“The villagers apparently divided the meat among themselves. However, one of the locals recorded the act which was later circulated widely on social media platforms and caught the attention of forest officials,” said the SP.Based on the video evidence, local forest officials lodged the FIR at Hargaon Police station against 12 people who were booked under Wild life Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/fir-against-12-for-killing-dolphin-in-up-s-sitapur-one-arrested-101621364234615.html
19-05-2021||Mumbai||Navy rescues 180 from barge, search on for remaining 93||In a massive air and sea mission, the Indian Navy rescued 180 of the 273 crew members from sunken barge P305, which de-anchored from an oil rig in Bombay High into the Arabian Sea, hours before the “extremely severe” cyclone Tauktae made landfall on the Gujarat coast late on Monday. According to officials, search operations are going on for the remaining 93 workers of the accommodation barge that sank about 35 nautical miles off Mumbai. Tauktae, the most powerful storm to hit the region in more than two decades, packed sustained winds of up to 210km per hour when it came ashore in Gujarat. The barge was deployed at the Heera platform, the largest of the ONGC rigs in Bombay High, the largest oil and gas assets of the national energy major. Deputy chief of naval staff, vice admiral Murlidhar Sadashiv Pawar said the barge sank at 7pm on Monday in a very choppy sea. The subsequent search and rescue was one of the most challenging operations undertaken by the Navy in four decades, he said.Indian Naval Ships (INS) Beas, Betwa and Teg have joined INS Kochi and INS Kolkata in the search and rescue (SAR) operations for the barge. The SAR had also been augmented with P-8I and naval helicopters, which held an aerial search and since the commencement of the SAR from May 17, 180 have been rescued so far, said commander Mehul Karnik, chief public relations officer, Western Naval Command. Karnik, however, clarified that helicopters cannot be used for aerial search at night and the search will continue by naval ships after ascertaining the distance and direction the survivors could have drifted into the sea. P305, according to some rescued workers, got disconnected from the rig around 10.15pm on Sunday and went adrift as Tauktae struck the Konkan coast. Survivors said water started entering the accommodation barge from Monday morning and they were forced to get out of their compartments and move to the deck of the barge.From Monday afternoon, survivors started jumping from the barge, as it started sinking and since then they were waiting for the Navy to rescue them. A naval officer said that the extremely bad weather due to Tauktae had considerably delayed the SAR.After getting an alert from the barge, Indian Navy sailed warships along with other assets for the ongoing SAR. A Seaking helicopter was sent in Tuesday morning from INS Shikra, Mumbai, to support rescue efforts. The SAR operation is also being carried out by warships INS Kochi and INS Kolkata with the help of other offshore support vessels (OSV) like Greatship Ahilya and Ocean Energy in extreme weather conditions and very rough seas. The SAR operation continued throughout Monday night and 111 people were rescued by INS Kochi and INS Kolkata, and 17 and 18 people were rescued respectively by Greatship Ahilya and by Ocean Energy till 6am on Tuesday, said Karnik. Thereafter, 34 more people from the barge were rescued and brought to INS Shikra in Mumbai by Tuesday evening, taking the total of rescued persons to 180. “Four of our Indian Naval Ships are on site and for last more than 20 hours, the naval staff have been battling to search and rescue as many people as they can through the dark night and in challenging weather conditions,” said Pawar. Meanwhile, in another operation, an Indian Navy Seaking helicopter was launched to rescue crew members of GAL Constructor, another barge which ran aground north of Mumbai, near Satpati in Palghar district. The barge, with 137 persons on-board, was being brought to Mumbai, when it got off from the tug boat that was toeing it to Mumbai harbour on Sunday evening. The crew members tried to hold the barge in place by putting all its four anchors, but the cyclonic storm cut off the anchor, setting it adrift. All the 137 people on board the cargo barge GAL Constructor have been rescued. Search and rescue was also in progress off the coast of Gujarat for three vessels, namely Support Station 3, Great Ship Aditi and Drill Ship Sagar Bhushan, which were 15-20 nautical miles south-east off Pipapav on Gujarat coast. INS Talwar has arrived in the area and taken over the duties of “on-scene co-ordinator” for coordination of search and rescue efforts. The Western Naval Command said, it has in coordination with ONGC and director, general shipping, diverted five tugs to render assistance in the rescue operation. Great Ship Aditi and Support Station 3 have been able to drop anchor. Meanwhile, OSV’s Samudra Sevak and SV Cheel are connected to manoeuvre Sagar Bhushan, and the situation at present appears to be stable, said a naval officer. He added that even after passing of Tauktae, the sea continues to be extremely rough, posing a challenge to the ships and aircraft involved in the search and rescue operations. The main operation pertained to search and rescue of the people from P305, said Pawar. As regards the operation along Gujarat coast, he said the main assistance required was to prevent the three vessels of southern coast of Saurashtra, off Pipvava, from running aground. He added that all the three vessels were safe presently and INS Talwar was on the site and four Tugs were also mobilised by ONGC and shipping corporation of India to insure that these ships don’t run aground. He said the main challenge of course was weather itself and it was very severe cyclonic storm with the winds gusting to 80 to 90 nautical miles and wave heights of around 6 to 7m, incessant rain, zero visibility.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/navy-rescues-180-from-barge-search-on-for-remaining-93-101621364175088.html
19-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra govt floats global tenders for 50 million vaccine doses||After the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), the Maharashtra government, too, has floated a global tender for procuring 50 million doses of the Covid-19 vaccines approved by the World Health Organization (WHO) and the United States Food and Drug Administration, and are being manufactured in other countries. In its expression of interest (EoI), which was issued on Monday, the state government has put the onus of getting Central approvals on bidders. Though the state has floated the global tenders, there is no clarity on many aspects, including legal indemnity, whether to procure from the source country, the transportation of the stock, duties on them, among others. The state government is aiming at importing the doses of the vaccines manufactured by Pfizer, Johnson & Johnson, Zydus Cadilla, among others. “The biggest hurdle would be the storage and transportation of the vaccines, which need to be kept at minus 70 degrees Celsius. None of our cities have such infrastructure to maintain the shots at that temperature. Since it has now become the sellers’ market with huge demand from across the globe, the manufacturers have been asking us to procure from manufacturing facilities. It will need robust logistical means to procure the shots that need to be kept at minus 70 degree celsius,” said an official. requesting anonymity as he was not authorised to speak to the media.The official said that though the centre has allowed the state to import the vaccines even before they are given clinical approvals, there is no clarity on other issues. He said that the issues like legal indemnity, import related nods and duty/taxes on import of such stocks are still grey areas.Another official from the health department said that price we are expected to pay per dose for these imported vaccine would be huge and may throw the government budget for a toss. “Most of these vaccines are expected to cost us more than ₹2,000 a dose against our local level procurement of ₹300 and ₹400 a dose. There would be limitations on import of vaccines due to this aspect too. Since the Centre has allowed private sector hospitals and corporate houses to directly procure the vaccines from two domestic players, we cannot even divert the imported stock to the private sector too,” he added. The officer also expressed apprehension over the response to the bids amid all these factors related to the import. Meanwhile, the Centre has not responded to state government’s request for permission to develop its own app for vaccination. Last week, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray had sought permission since there have been lots of complaints about the Cowin portal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-govt-floats-global-tenders-for-50-million-vaccine-doses-101621364054081.html
19-05-2021||Lucknow||NHRC seeks report in Chitrakoot jail shootout case||The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) on Tuesday asked Uttar Pradesh authorities to submit an action taken report within 10 weeks on complaints regarding the May 14 shootout in Chitrakoot jail in which three inmates were killed.The commission has issued notice to the UP DGP, DM and SP (Chitrakoot) and Chitrakoot Jail Superintendent through DIG, Prison, Prayagraj in this connection. The notice was issued in connection with the shootout inside the Chitrakoot jail in which an under-trial inmate Anshu Dixit shot dead two gangsters Mukeem alias Kala and Meraj Ahmad after getting a pistol inside the jail premises. Dixit was later gunned down in police firing.The commission stated in its notice that on May 14, 2021, a prisoner had allegedly snatched a pistol from prison personnel and killed two other prisoners and subsequently was killed in firing by the jail staff.The commission has asked the authorities to include all documents related to a detailed report (covering all the aspect leading to the death of the prisoners/encounter), copies of all relevant general diary entries or extract including departure and arrival of police before and after the encounter, copy of memo having details of seizure done after the incident, reports of the injured police personnel, if any, and details of criminal history of the deceased persons, if any (including the present status of case(s) registered against the deceased).The commission has also asked the site plan of scene of occurrence giving all the details (including positioning of forces/police and deceased during the encounter), inquest report, post mortem examination report of each of the deceased (typed copy of PMR especially injury along with diagram of entry-exit/ wound must be provided). It mentioned that the report should clearly mention whether blackening/charring/tattooing was present or not on the bodies of the deceased.It stated that the report should also include the videocassette or CD of post mortem examination of each of the deceased, result of the forensic examination of “hand wash” of the deceased to ascertain the presence of residue of gun powder, report of ballistic expert on examination of the arms and ammunition alleged to have been used by Anshu Dixit. Besides, the report of fingerprints expert, clearly mentioning whether the chance prints found on seized weapon matches with the fingerprints of the victim alleged to have fired the weapon recovered or otherwise, details of the investigation agency and case status and magisterial enquiry report (along with copies of the statement of family members of the deceased and other independent witnesses) was sought.The NHRC has also asked the State Human Rights Commission, Uttar Pradesh, through its secretary to inform the date of cognizance, if any, taken by them in the matter.Rohit K Singh9918171777||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/nhrc-seeks-report-in-chitrakoot-jail-shootout-case-101621363994089.html
19-05-2021||Other||SOS calls reduce as B’luru sees dip in Covid cases, say helplines, volunteer groups||Bengaluru: With the city witnessing a decline in Covid cases over the last week, employees of Covid helplines and volunteer groups say that the number of emergency calls has also reduced since a few days. The number of new cases in the city started dropping from May 10 after weeks of witnessing a surge. According to experts, the marginal drop in daily new cases was mainly due to a decrease in the number of tests the state has been conducting in the past few weeks. In the wake of surge in Covid-19 cases, Karnataka on April 27 imposed a lockdown, which will continue till May 24. On May 1, the state had reported 44,438 new Covid-19 cases, which increased to 50,112 on May 5. The state logged 41,664 new infections on May 15, according to the health department. Karnataka has seen a drop in the number of tests being conducted every day from 177,982 on May 1 to 118,345 by May 15, as per data. On the ground, however, relief workers say there is considerable change in the situation during the past three days. HS Gopal, who is in charge of the 1912 helpline, which has been catering to the bed requirements in the city, said that there has been a considerable reduction in the number of calls. “On Sunday and Monday, we got 3,587 and 2,500 calls respectively, which is at least 1,000 calls less than what we used to get during the peak. There is a definite reduction in the number of calls. Still, there is a demand for ICU beds, but the calls for other beds and oxygen beds have come down,” he said. 1912 number was originally the helpline for Bangalore Electricity Supply Company Limited or BESCOM. Once the cases in the city started to rise, the employees of the BESCOM call centre were deputed to Covid-19 helpline duties. “We had around 60 personnel working for the Covid-19 helpline and 30 working for BESCOM helpline, with the reduction in calls we might move some employees back to BESCOM since there are multiple power fluctuations due to rains,” Gopal added. Tauseef Ahmed, a volunteer with Mercy Mission, a group of volunteers who were helping with the relief activities especially providing beds, medicines and oxygen, said even they are seeing a reduction in the number of SOS calls. “We don’t keep a track of the number of calls we get in a day. So, I can give you my example, I used to take around 25-30 emergency calls every day. Now it has come down to 8-10,” said Ahmed. He added that they still get calls for the ICU beds, however, calls for oxygen and Remdesivir have dropped drastically. “We are getting a lot of calls for Amphotericin, which is needed for treating black fungus, Tocilizumab injection and ICU beds. For others, demand has come down,” he said. Samyukta Hornad, an actor, who has been helping patients with oxygen supply and hospital bed information too said that the number of calls per day has reduced. “Especially when it comes to oxygen what we hear is that that BBMP is able to provide adequate oxygen, which wasn’t the case earlier, and volunteers are helping hospitals with oxygen,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sos-calls-reduce-as-b-luru-sees-dip-in-covid-cases-say-helplines-volunteer-groups-101621363814042.html
19-05-2021||Chandigarh||PM praises Chandigarh admn for setting up three oxygen plants||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday appreciated the Chandigarh administration for timely commissioning three oxygen generation plants at government hospitals in the city. The PM was interacting through video conference with field officials from states and districts regarding their experience in handling the Covid-19 pandemic.The PM gave the instance of Chandigarh rapidly installing oxygen plants in time for its adequate supply. “Work is being done rapidly to install oxygen plants in hospitals in every district of the country, like in Chandigarh, through PM Cares Fund and these plants have already started functioning in many hospitals,” said ModiThe plants have been set up at Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32; Government Multi Specialty Hospital, Sector 16; and Dedicated Covid Hospital, Sector 48.On behalf of the UT, deputy commissioner Mandip Singh Brar made a presentation on the administration’s experience in Covid management.Brar mentioned about the steps being taken, including setting up of oxygen plants on priority, formation of the tricity coordination committee, involvement of all doctors in decision making, increase in testing and contact tracing and use of Covid Care Centres. He also highlighted the role played by Dhanwantry Ayurvedic College besides non-government organisations, resident welfare associations, religious bodies and other members of civil society in the fight against the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pm-praises-chandigarh-admn-for-setting-up-three-oxygen-plants-101621363694585.html
19-05-2021||Chandigarh||Lockdown: Cases down in Chandigarh, Panchkula, but Mohali bucks the trend||The number of Covid-19 cases and positivity rate dropped in the second week of lockdown in Chandigarh and Panchkula, but went up in Mohali district.The Punjab and Haryana governments had imposed statewide curbs from May 3 while Chandigarh followed suit a day later. The lockdown has been further extended for a week in Chandigarh and Panchkula while it will remain in force till the month end in Mohali.While extending the curbs on Monday, the Chandigarh administration had reasoned that it does not want to undo the “gains of the lockdown”, ie, the plateauing of cases.In Chandigarh, the number of cases had gone up by 3.3% in the first week of the lockdown (May 4-10) as compared to the week prior (April 27-May 3), but saw a significant drop of 16% in the second week (May 11-17).Even the weekly positivity rate saw a marginal drop during this period, but still remains above 20%. It means that of every five persons being sampled, at least one is testing positive for the virus.Positivity rate is the true indicator of the growth or decline in the spread of an infection, as it is proportion of people testing positive among all those sampled. On the other hand, the absolute number of positive cases is influenced by the number of tests conducted, and fails to give the true picture.For example, the drop in the number of positive cases in the second week of the lockdown is accompanied by a drop in testing numbers too.In week prior to the lockdown (April 27-May 3), 26,581 tests were conducted and 5,683 people tested positive, leading to a positivity rate of 21.4%. In the first week of lockdown, tests went down to 25,217 and case load went up to 5,874, with which positivity rate also saw an uptick to 23.3%. In the second week, tests further fell to 23,556, but even cases came down to 4,917, leading to a drop in positivity rate to 20.9%.In Panchkula, too, the trend has been similar to that in Chandigarh, with cases going down by 24% in the second week and positivity rate dropping to 15%, lowest across the tricity.However, Mohali, which has been the worst hit by the pandemic’s second wave in the tricity, has bucked the trend. The cases, in fact, surged by 26% in the second week and positivity rate, too, shot up from 22% to 27%.Mohali deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan said the second wave was expected to peak during this period, and the lockdown has helped the administration in breaking the chain of infection. “We are hopeful that in the coming days, both the number of cases and deaths will come down,” he said.‘Takes at least 10 days to start seeing impact’ Meanwhile, the case fatality rate, ie, the proportion of people succumbing to the virus among all those tested positive for it, marginally declined from 1.07% (April 27-May 3) to 0.97% in the first week of the lockdown (May 4-10) in Chandigarh, before going up to 1.13% in the second week (May 11-17).In Panchkula, too, it declined from 1.31% (April 26-May 2) to 0.9% (May 3-9) before surging to 1.41% (May 10-16). In Mohali, the trend was once again the opposite, as the case fatality rate went up from 1% to 1.3%, before dropping to 1.07% during the same period as in Panchkula.Dr Rajesh Kumar, former head of the department of community medicine and public health, PGIMER, said: “The impact of a lockdown takes at least 10 days to be felt. There is a lag of a week before the infection manifests itself. So, a person infected today will test positive in about a week. In case of deaths, the lag is of around two weeks.”The central government has recently advised states and UTs with over 10% positivity rate to continue with “stringent containments” even if they are witnessing a decline or plateau in order to sustain the trend.Meanwhile, UT adviser Manoj Parida said the lockdown may not be the solution, but gives a breather for the health infrastructure to be built up.“It helps in breaking the chain, and has started to show results. However, the long-term solution is for people to strictly follow Covid protocol and get vaccinated,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/lockdown-cases-down-in-chandigarh-panchkula-but-mohali-bucks-the-trend-101621363575148.html
19-05-2021||Other||Covid recoveries exceed daily cases in Karnataka||Bengaluru The number of persons recovering from Covid-19 has exceeded new infections in Karnataka, indicating signs of the pandemic shrinking in the southern state.According to the daily bulletin of the state health department on Tuesday, Karnataka recorded 58,395 recoveries in the last 24 hours on Tuesday as against 30,309 new infections on Tuesday.“Karnataka reported the highest ever single day recovery with 58,395 recoveries on Tuesday. 30,309 cases were reported in the state today & recoveries have outnumbered the new cases. 8,676 new cases were reported in Bengaluru today while 31,795 people recovered,” K Sudhakar, minister for health, family welfare and medical education said in a post on Twitter.The higher number of recoveries also brought down the total active caseload to below 600,000 and it stood at 575,028.However, the state continues to report a high number of fatalities as 525 more succumbed to second Covid wave. Bengaluru accounted for at least 298 fatalities, according to the daily bulletin of the state health department.Bengaluru recorded a decline in active cases, registering below the five-figure mark at 8,676 that brings down its active caseload to 340,965.Experts, however, have indicated that the decline in cases is also due to lower testing.Any direct quote from Experts??The number of tests saw a drastic decline from a total of 1,77,982 (RT-PCR and RAT)on May 1 to 93,247 across the state on Tuesday, according to the daily health bulletin.Senior health department officials, however, have stated that they are doing “targeted testing” in the state which has led to the decline in total numbers.The positivity rate in the state remains at a high of 32.50%.Bengaluru accounted for almost 60% of the daily caseload in Karnataka and lower number of infections can give the state government some room to finally focus on the other 29 districts of Karnataka which are witnessing a surge in cases.The BS Yediyurappa-led state government has imposed a lockdown in Karnataka and are deliberating if the same should be extended beyond May 24, when it is scheduled to end, based on the new infection rate in the state.The mineral-rich district of Ballari recorded 28 fatalities and registered1,799 new infections, taking its active caseload to above 20,290.Similarly, the coastal district of Uttara Kannada recorded 22 fatalities and 803 new infections. Coastal Karnataka and districts that come under the Malnad region have been fighting the Covid-19 pandemic and the onslaught caused by Cyclone Tauktae, which has so far claimed eight lives in the state.The border district of Bidar recorded four fatalities and its total number of infections have come down to 113. The district, which featured among the top contributors until a few weeks ago, has the lowest single-day count among all 30 districts of the state, data shows.2118 new infections was recorded in Belagavi, 1339 in Bengaluru Rural, 969 in Dharwada, 777 in Dakshina Kannada, 834 in Hassan, 1021 in Kolar, 1916 in Mysuru, 1168 in Shivamogga and 1562 in Tumakuru.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid-recoveries-exceed-daily-cases-in-karnataka-101621363514118.html
19-05-2021||Chandigarh||Zirakpur hospital owner booked for fleecing Covid victim’s kin||A day after a three-member committee found a Zirakpur hospital guilty of overcharging and medical negligence, a case has been registered against its owner. The district administration has also constituted a medical board to determine the extent of medical negligence.The owner of New Lifeline Hospital, Dr Manish Goyal, has been booked under Sections 269 (Negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 270 (Malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 51 (b), 58 of the Disaster Management Act, and Section 3 of the Epidemic Diseases Act.An inquiry was marked against the private hospital after a deceased patient’s family alleged overcharging and denial to hand over the body without clearance of bills. The patient, Paramjit Singh, was suffering from severe pneumonia due to Covid-19 when he was admitted to the hospital on April 26; he died on May 14. In its report, the committee had stated that there were incidences of overcharging and grave lapses in the medical record management by the hospital authorities.Deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan said that directions had been given to all private hospitals to prominently display the Covid-19 treatment charges as capped by the Punjab government.The hospitals have also been advised to exhibit the name of the nodal officer for grievance redressal by patients’ family/attendant, the DC added.Dayalan informed that very stringent action under the Epidemic Diseases Act would be taken against erring hospitals, and that the government was empowered to shut down the facility or take control over it, if need be.The nodal officers for grievance redressal in the district are the sub-divisional magistrates of the respective sub-divisions: Himanshu Jain (9533502245) for Kharar, Kuldeep Bawa (9815711006) for Dera Bassi and Jagdeep Sehgal (8727856083) for Mohali.The treatment charges for tertiary care (L3) in private medical colleges and hospitals without a ventilator and with a ventilator (invasive/non-invasive) for moderate to very sick patients range from ₹10,000 to ₹18,000. For details, the copy of the orders issued by Punjab government can be found at http://sasnagr.nic.in/.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/zirakpur-hospital-owner-booked-for-fleecing-covid-victim-s-kin-101621363274771.html
19-05-2021||Chandigarh||Moderate to heavy rain, squall likely in Chandigarh||The circulations arising from Cyclone Tauktae will reach the city by Wednesday and moderate to heavy rain up to 70mm is likely in the city as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD).Speaking about this, IMD officials said, “The rain is likely to be accompanied with gusty winds up to 50km/h and thunder and lightning. There are chances of squall also on Wednesday. Rain will continue on Thursday as well, but will reduce in intensity. The system is likely to stop from Friday onwards, with chances of light rain up to 20mm on that day.”The temperature is likely to take a plunge also with the maximum temperature likely to fall down to 26°C on Wednesday. Mercury will, however, start to rise again from Friday.Instructions issued by IMDFor thunderstorms and gusty winds, IMD has asked people to avoid taking shelter under trees and to avoid electric poles and wires. For the rain, the IMD has asked people to avoid going into waterlogged areas and clean their drainages. IMD has also asked farmers to avoid application of fertilisers and insecticides in their crops.The maximum temperature in the city went down from 40.7°C on Monday to 32.2°C on Tuesday. The minimum temperature went up from 22.6°C on Monday to 27°C on Tuesday. In the next three days, the maximum temperature will stay between 26°C and 31°C while the minimum temperature will stay between 21°C and 23°C..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/moderate-to-heavy-rain-squall-likely-in-chandigarh-on-may-19-101621363214630.html
19-05-2021||Delhi||Dates for Delhi mayoral polls extended again, to be held on June 8||New Delhi: With the Capital in lockdown till May 24, elections for the posts of mayor, deputy mayor and standing committee chairperson in the three city’s three municipal corporations were extended on Tuesday, and will now be held on June 8, and candidates can file nominations till May 31.This is the third time the polls have been rescheduled due to the ongoing lockdown.“Since the lockdown has been extended to May 24, we have decided to hold elections … on June 8. These elections will be held at the headquarters of the North and South Delhi Municipal Corporations in Civic Centre and at the East Delhi Municipal Corporation headquarters in Patparganj on the due date,” North Delhi Municipal Corporation mayor Jai Prakash said.The Delhi Municipal Corporation Act provides for election of mayor, deputy mayor and standing committee chairperson from among councillors of the civic bodies in the first meeting of the House every year. Mayors and deputy mayors get a year-long term in Union Territory cities.“Nominations can be filed in the office of the municipal secretary on any working day between 11am and 5pm,” a senior north corporation official said.Civic authorities said elections for the aforementioned posts were initially due to be held between April 27 and 29, but were postponed to May 18 after chief minister Arvind Kejriwal imposed the curbs on April 19. The polls were again postponed to May 25, while the last date of nominations was to be May 18.Besides this, a member of the North corporation will also be elected to the Delhi Development Authority (DDA) advisory council on June 8.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/dates-for-delhi-mayoral-polls-extended-again-to-be-held-on-june-8-101621358115564.html
19-05-2021||Delhi||Three held for beating Kenyan man to death in dispute over taxi fare||A taxi driver and two of his friends on Monday beat to death a 50-year-old Kenyan man after a tiff over the travel fare, the Delhi Police said on Tuesday after arresting the suspects.The suspects dumped the body of the victim, Jama Said Farah, near a hotel close to the Delhi Airport and took away his luggage to ensure be couldn’t be identified. However, the victim’s cellphone helped the police crack the case, said Rajeev Ranjan, deputy commissioner of police (IGI Airport).Farah arrived in India two weeks ago to get a heart condition treated at a facility in the Capital, the police said. However, the treatment was cancelled due to the pandemic, Ranjan said.He said the police received a call on Monday reporting an unidentified man’s body lying near a hotel close to the airport. The police found a cellphone next to the body and checked the last dialled number, which belonged to a travel agent.“The travel agent confirmed the victim’s identity and said he was to fly back to Kenya via Somalia on Monday. The agent booked tickets for him,” said Ranjan.The police soon received a call from Farah’s daughter who revealed that the victim was off-loaded from a flight since he was going to Kenya via Somalia, but did not have a Somalia visa.“So, the man decided to stay at a hotel in Mahipalpur. He hired a cab from Terminal 3. Before departing, he sent the taxi’s registration number to his daughter,” the DCP said.The cab, driven by one Virender Singh, was also occupied by two of his friends — Gopal Singh and Dilbagh, who goes by a single name.The cab was hired for ₹500, but there was a dispute over the fare along the way. “During the quarrel, the three of them thrashed Farah and left his body near a hotel. They took his luggage away so that he couldn’t be identified,” said the DCP.But since the victim’s daughter was able to provide the cab number, the police went on to nab the three suspects from south Delhi’s Rangpuri area, where the three lived.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/three-held-for-beating-kenyan-man-to-death-in-dispute-over-taxi-fare-101621358113814.html
19-05-2021||Delhi||Heavy rain likely in Delhi-NCR as a weakened Tauktae closes in||Parts of north India, including Delhi and NCR, saw overcast skies and light rain on Tuesday under the impact of cyclone Tauktae, which made landfall in Gujarat on Monday night, and after weakening considerably, is currently moving inwards towards Delhi.India Meteorological Department (IMD) scientists said Delhi is also likely to receive heavy to very heavy rainfall on Wednesday. An advisory issued by the IMD said Tauktae and its remnants would interact with a western disturbance trough, creating an interaction zone. This weather phenomenon is likely to form above Delhi and adjoining areas, resulting in heavy rainfall in the region.“In addition, high moisture feeding from the Arabian Sea is also likely over north-west India, which would result in heavy to very heavy rainfall over Delhi, Chandigarh, Himachal Pradesh, Haryana, west and east Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, and north Rajasthan on Wednesday,” the advisory read.A senior IMD scientist said rainfall activity is likely to begin in parts of Delhi from Tuesday night. The IMD has issued an orange alert over Delhi and NCR for Wednesday. An orange warning means authorities are to ”be prepared” for heavy to very heavy rainfall.Cyclone Tauktae (pronounced Tau’Te) had intensified into an ”extremely severe cyclonic storm” and made landfall on Gujarat coast late Monday with wind speeds between 150kmph and 160kmph. A tropical cyclone is an intense circular storm that originates over warm tropical oceans and is characterised by low atmospheric pressure, strong winds and heavy rainfall. Tropical cyclones always have an eye, a central region of clear skies and warm temperatures.IMD forecast said while the rainfall activity in and around the national capital on Wednesday is likely to be intense, on Thursday, there is only a possibility of drizzle in some parts.Met officials said residents should brace for the possibility of heavy traffic, water logging and flooding, and minor damages to road and vulnerable structures, as a result of the heavy rain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/heavy-rain-likely-in-delhi-ncr-as-a-weakened-tauktae-closes-in-101621358055307.html
19-05-2021||Delhi||After assurances of supply, Delhi adds 153 jab centres for 45+ age group||The Delhi government has increased the number of vaccination centres for those aged 45 and above after receiving new supply assurances, but the administration may need to soon halt the drive for younger adults since no new stocks are expected for the 18-44 age group, Aam Aadmi Party legislator Atishi said.Delhi on Monday added 153 vaccination centres for the category that includes health care workers, frontline workers, and those aged above 44, taking the number of centres to 623. Around 100 of these are in state-run schools and allow walk-in jabs.In a briefing on the vaccination drive on Tuesday, Atishi said the state government received 60,240 doses of Covaxin from its manufacturer Bharat Biotech for the 45+ age group, which should last two days. The state also has four days of Covishield stocks for the bracket.A set of documents confirming the delivery schedule, seen by HT, show that the Capital is scheduled to receive another 98,890 doses of Covaxin and 283,970 doses of Covishield for the this age group between May 21 and 29.Also Read| Covid-19: Uncertainty over banks, infra in Delhi after plasma therapy droppedThese assurances of supply, senior officials said, have allowed the Delhi government to widen its drive to vaccinate the older adults and increase the number of centres. “We plan to further increase centres in the coming days if we receive more estimates on supplies,” said Atishi.Doses for the 45-and-above category are offered for free by the Union government, while those for the 18-44 age group are purchased directly by the state governments. Due to limited supply and concerns over equitable access among states, the Union government has fixed a ratio in which stocks will be delivered under both categories.Delhi government officials said they have not received any commitments for vaccines for the 18-44 beneficiary group despite several state government centres running out of Covaxin, and with just three days of Covishield stocks remaining, the government’s health bulletin said.The numbers in the state government’s vaccination bulletin relate to concerns in just the state’s stocks. Central government-run centres vaccinate only the 45-and-above group, while private hospitals have their own stock.Also Read| Delhi govt starts vaccinating Tihar inmates in 18-44 age group“We hope that the central government makes vaccines available for the 18-44 beneficiary group the way it did for the 45-plus beneficiary group. Otherwise, we will be forced to close more centres,” said Atishi.Government records showed that the number of city government-run centres for the 18-44 population has dropped from 368 to 250 over the past week.“To stop the pandemic, it is essential to vaccinate the younger population. Only around 700,000 people of this age group in Delhi have so far received the first dose of the vaccine,” Atishi said.Overall, around 4.7 million doses of vaccines have been administered in Delhi – of which 1.7 million are second doses – since the inoculation drive was started. Electoral roll data shows that Delhi will need 30 million doses to vaccinate its 15 million-strong adult population.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/after-assurances-of-supply-delhi-adds-153-jab-centres-for-45-age-group-101621357934414.html
19-05-2021||Delhi||Police take Navneet Kalra to his restaurants, office to look for evidence||A team of the Delhi Police’s crime branch on Tuesday took businessman Navneet Kalra to his three restaurants — Khan Chacha, Town Hall and Nege & Ju — his opticals shop, Dayal Opticals, and an office in Okhla for “further recoveries” after previous seizures of oxygen concentrators and other medical equipment, investigators said.Kalra was arrested on Sunday evening for allegedly hoarding oxygen concentrators and selling them at inflated prices.A laptop and some “crucial documents” related to the sale and purchase of oxygen concentrators were recovered from Kalra’s Okhla office and other business establishments, an officer said on condition of anonymity.Kalra was arrested from his in-laws’ farmhouse in Gurugram on Sunday. On Monday, the Saket district court sent him to three days of custodial interrogation after the crime branch said his custody was required to unearth the whole nexus, the conspiracy behind the black marketing of devices and to track the money trail. The police said he was on the run since the recovery of 524 oxygen concentrators from three of his restaurants, and from the office of Matrix Cellular between May 5 and May 7.On Tuesday, Kalra was also interrogated by the investigating team to ascertain his role in the case, the police officer said.The officer said Kalra told the interrogators that he learnt of the raids on his restaurants from television news channels. Kalra told the police that since the channels identified him as the “mastermind” behind the hoarding racket, he left for the farmhouse in Gurugram with his family, fearing torture by the police, the officer said, sharing details from Kalra’s questioning.The police have alleged that for each concentrator, Kalra and his partners made a profit of at least ₹55,000. The concentrators were bought for ₹14,000-15,000 each and sold at ₹70,000-75,000. The police said that since October last year, Kalra and his associates bought nearly 7,500 concentrators and more than 2,000 concentrators were sold in Delhi.Five people -- the manager of Nege & Ju restaurant, and the chief executive officer (CEO) and three senior officers of Matrix Cellular -- were arrested since the recovery of the concentrators. All five were later released on bail. While granting bail to the accused on May 13, the court said: “No prima facie case under Section 420 IPC is made out against the accused, at least from the contents of the FIR”, adding it was unable to understand the offence they had committed as the government did not regulate the prices of the devices.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/police-take-khan-chacha-owner-to-his-restaurants-office-to-look-for-evidence-101621357873848.html
19-05-2021||Delhi||Stop Singapore flights, Kejriwal urges Centre amid concerns over new strain||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday requested the Centre to suspend flights to and from Singapore with immediate effect in the wake of an alleged new strain detected in that country, which is suspected to affect more children. Hours later, Union aviation minister Hardeep Puri replied to Kejriwal saying no flight, except a few under the Centre’s Vande Bharat mission (to bring back Indians), is operating between India and Singapore.Kejriwal hinted that the alleged new strain could mark the advent of the third wave of Covid-19 in the country and urged the Centre to give priority to identifying vaccines for children to fight the virus.The chief minister’s comments came in the wake of a new strain of Covid-19 detected in Singapore, forcing it to shut schools from Wednesday as it is suspected to affect more children, like the Indian strain of the virus.However, a section of foreign media stated that the strain, which the Singapore government said was affecting more children, is actually B.1.617 and that there is no new “Singapore strain”. Hindustan Times could not independently verify this.“The new form of Covid-19 that has come to Singapore is being said to be extremely dangerous for children. In India, it may come as a third wave. My appeal to the Central government: 1. Air services with Singapore be cancelled with immediate effect 2. Priority on vaccine options should be worked out for children too,” the chief minister said in a tweet in Hindi.Union minister Puri replied to Kejriwal saying international flights are shut since March, 2020. “Kejriwal ji, international flights are shut since March 2020. We do not even have an air bubble with Singapore. We are only bringing back Indians who are stranded there through some Vande Bharat flights. They are our own people only. Still, we are closely monitoring the situation. All precautions are being taken,” he tweeted in Hindi.Also Read| No new Covid strain detected here, Singapore health ministry counters KejriwalWhen asked about this alleged new variant during the Union health ministry’s press briefing, Dr VK Paul, member (health), Niti Aayog, said the Central government is examining the matter. “We are examining the report you’re referring to about the particular variant,” he said.Singapore warned on Sunday that the new coronavirus variants, such as the one first detected in India, were affecting more children, as the city-state prepared to shut most schools from Wednesday and drew up plans to vaccinate youngsters. All primary, secondary and junior colleges will shift to full home-based learning from Wednesday until the end of the school term on May 28.“Some of these (virus) mutations are much more virulent, and they seem to attack the younger children,” said Singapore education minister Chan Chun Sing.Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said Kejriwal stated wrong facts in his tweets and criticised his “callousness” as a chief minister.“It seems Arvind Kejriwal doesn’t check facts before speaking or he intentionally speaks to create a controversy. While demanding a ban on flights between India and Singapore, the CM ignored the fact that all normal flight operations between the two countries stand suspended since April 24, 2020. Not only that, Kejriwal also ignored the fact that the Covid strain B.1.617, which has now been found in Singapore, has been active in India since March 2021, especially in Maharashtra. One fails to understand why Kejriwal is now trying to create panic for this strain of Covid,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/stop-singapore-flights-kejriwal-urges-centre-amid-concerns-over-new-covid-strain-101621357822817.html
19-05-2021||Delhi||Covid-19 in Delhi: Positivity drops below 7%, 265 new deaths||Delhi reported 4,482 new cases of Covid-19 on Tuesday, almost the same as the day before, but from a higher number of tests, which that the test positivity rate clocked in at lower than 7% for the first time since April 7.Experts said the positivity rate – proportion of samples that return positive – dropping to 6.89% underlines the trend of the outbreak slowing down in the national capital, which has been in a near-complete lockdown since April 19 after a fourth wave of cases took hold.A day after the lockdown was imposed, the Capital reported a peak of over 28,000 cases in a day and the positivity rate at one point crossed 36%, meaning one in three people tested for the infection had it.Delhi reported over 20,000 cases each day for sixteen consecutive days between April 17 and May 2, after which the cases began receding gradually.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has urged people to keep up their guard against the disease.“The virus is reducing in Delhi slowly and steadily, and I hope it diminishes completely and does not rise again. However, we are not going to become negligent in anyway,” he said on Saturday.The deaths are yet to taper off. Although lower than the peak of 448 deaths reported on May 3, the city has been reporting about 300 deaths on average daily for the last seven days. On Tuesday, Delhi reported 265 deaths due to the viral infection, taking the city’s total Covid-19 toll to 22,111 so far since the first death was reported on March 13 last year.“No one can say when or if the next surge will happen. What we have seen so far is that the there is a gap of five to six months between the two waves. This can be utilised to put things in order and prepare. Strong genomic sequencing data along with the epidemiological picture will also help in predicting (the pattern),” said Dr Lalit Kant, former head of the department of epidemiology at the Indian Council of Medical Research.The seven-day rolling average case fatality ratio (CFR) – proportion of deaths among those who test positive – stood at 3.67% on Tuesday. The cumulative CFR, calculated on the basis of total cases and deaths reported so far, stands at 1.58% in Delhi.Experts said the numbers could stay low for some time, with a large chunk of the population having been exposed to the infection.“Those who have had the infection will be protected from a second infection for some time,” said Dr Jugal Kishore, head of the department of community medicine at Safdarjung Hospital.To be sure, confirmed cumulative positive cases in the Capital are at a little over 1.4 million, which is approximately 7.5% of the population -- which potentially leaves a large swathe of the population still vulnerable to the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/positivity-rate-drops-below-7-in-delhi-101621357695225.html
19-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt starts vaccinating Tihar inmates in 18-44 age group||The west Delhi district on Tuesday started vaccinating Tihar jail inmates in the 18-44 age group and, according to district officials, around 100 inmates were vaccinated on Day One of the drive. The officials said there are around 11,000-12,000 in this age group at Tihar currently.The west Delhi district has set up an outreach site in Tihar jail for the vaccination drive. The move comes after director general (prisons) Sandeep Goel wrote to the state government, requesting it to start vaccinating inmates in the age group of 18-44 years.Ishaan Sharma, officer on special duty (vaccination), west Delhi district, said, “As a special case, we have started vaccinating inmates in the 18-44 age group in Tihar. We have deputed a team for this purpose. There are around 11,000-12,000 inmates who are in this category. The district administration decided to vaccinate them on priority as they could become a super-spreader group, given the close proximity in which live inside the prison.”According to west Delhi district officials, inmates are allowed to register on the spot at the vaccination site. Sharma said, “As a special case, we have taken permission from the state government for on-site registration for inmates. These people don’t have access to the CoWin portal. So, they can just walk in and get registered for a shot. We have set a daily vaccination target of 200 at this site.”West Delhi is the first revenue district to have set up an outreach vaccination site for the 18-44 age group, the vaccination for which category started on May 1.The government has recently started vaccinating all inmates who are aged 45 and above at the three jails of Tihar, Mandoli and Rohini. Until Tuesday, 1, 472 inmates in three jail complexes –1,089 (including 49 who received second shot of the vaccine) in Tihar, 112 in Rohini and 271 in Mandoli—have been vaccinated.An official from Shahdara district, under which comes the Mandoli prison, said on condition of anonymity, “We are currently vaccinating people in the 45+ category. So far, no decision has been taken on vaccinating inmates in the 18-44 age group.”In the past one week, at least 1,700 inmates from the three prisons, both convicts and under trials, have been released on interim bail or emergency parole for 90 days in an effort to decongest prisons. They will have to surrender after 90 days in case their parole or interim bail is not extended.Until last month, the three prisons collectively had 20,500 prisoners, while the sanctioned capacity is only 10,026.The three jail complexes, which currently house around 18,000 prisoners, have reported six deaths due to Covid-19 in the past two months. Last year, two prisoners had died of Covid-19. The jail authorities said the jail hospital at each complex is being used as a vaccination site.The spread of the Covid infection inside Tihar has been more severe during the second wave of the pandemic, as compared to the first one. In February, there was not a single case of Covid-19 among prisoners or jail officials. Even until April 6, the jail had only 19 cases of Covid-19 among prisoners. But in the past one month, Tihar has reported over 300 Covid-19 cases among prisoners, said jail officials.“The cases are under control now. We have around 79 positive cases among inmates. Last month, when Delhi was reporting a positivity rate of over 30℅, we have around 290 positive cases. Now with a few prisoners released, and more waiting to be released, the situation is much better,” said a prison officer, who wished not to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-starts-vaccinating-tihar-inmates-in-18-44-age-group-101621357693941.html
19-05-2021||Delhi||Covid: BSES electrifies temporary ICU centres with 1,000 beds in a fortnight||With nearly seven kilometres of underground cables, eight distribution transformers and 280 workers, power distribution company BSES Yamuna Power Limited (BYPL) has completely electrified two temporary intensive care unit (ICU) facilities set up to treat Covid-19 patients. The centres, one at the Ramlila ground near Lok Nayak Hospital and the other at another plot near GTB hospital — which have a total of 1,000 beds — were powered in a total of 14 days. The two facilities have a total power consumption allocation of 10MW, said officials.“BYPL had been tasked with readying the power infrastructure on a war-footing. We did this in a record time of seven days in each of the two sites. Between the two sites, the discom has laid nearly seven kilometres of underground cables using trenchless technology. The anticipated power demand at each of the facilities can go up to 5MW . Accordingly, at each of the two sites, four distribution transformers, each with an installed capacity of 1.6 MVA,” a BSES spokesperson said.To cater to this large load requirement, around 280 officials worked around-the-clock under the direct supervision of the company’s senior leadership team and in close coordination with the state government and other departments, the spokesperson said. To ensure uninterrupted power-supply, back up-provisions have also been made at both the centres.“Additionally, quick response teams (QRT), with senior engineers, have been stationed in the vicinity of the two facilities, to take care of any contingency. Moreover, the underground cables will be monitored extensively to ensure they are not inadvertently cut by any civic agency while undertaking any excavation work,” the discom said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bses-electrifies-temporary-icu-centres-with-1-000-beds-in-a-fortnight-101621357574376.html
19-05-2021||Pune||Pune city receives 7,500 doses of Covishield; vax drive to resume on Wed||PUNE On Tuesday, Pune city received 7,500 doses of Covishield, which will allow the vaccination drive that was halted for two days, to resume. The PMC commissioner, Vikram Kumar, issued a fresh set of orders, whereby, on Wednesday, the city will have vaccinations at 73 centres, and all the doses will be of Covishield. Pune mayor Murldihar Mohol said, “A total of 73 centres will be available tomorrow for citizens aged 45 years and aboe, senior citizens, healthcare and frontline workers. All centres will be of Covishield. Beneficiaries who took the first dose 84 days ago, will be eligible for the second dose. This new stock will be available only for a second dose. Ten per cent of the stock would be reserved for those who have an online appointment, while the rest will be reserved for walk-ins. There will be no vaccination for those aged between 18-44 years on Wednesday.”In view of political party workers hijacking vaccination centres and giving out tokens, the commissioner stated that all vaccinations have to be registered on the CoWin portal, and that no vaccination would be given without registration. “There should be separate lines for those registered online and for those who want on-the-spot registration. For those who want to be registered on the spot, only pmc employees would be allowed to register the person,” Kumar said.His order also states that the order of priority will be as follows;: those with disabilities, those who want a second dose, senior citizens, those registered online for the first dose and then, those who want on-the-spot registration for the first dose. The order also states that a vaccination centre can approach a local police station for protection and for crowd management. Also, the ward’s assistant commissioner concerned or health officer must provide a police constable for crowd management at the vaccination centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-city-receives-7-500-doses-of-covishield-vax-drive-to-resume-on-wed-101621350733558.html
19-05-2021||Pune||Pleasant summer season will have no direct impact on monsoon: IMD||Since the temperature in Pune, and Maharashtra have not seen a major rise this season, the feel of a ‘hot’ summer has been missing. On some days, the maximum day temperature touched the 40 degrees Celsius mark in Pune city, however, did not stay at that point for long. Scientists at the India Meteorological Department (IMD) claim that a pleasant summer may not have have a direct impact on the onset of monsoon.As per India Meteorological Department (IMD), the reasons for not increasing the maximum temperature are the continuous weather systems that have been active over the state. The Southwest monsoon is likely to advance into south Andaman Sea and adjoining southeast Bay of Bengal around May 21, according to IMD. Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather forecasting department at IMD Pune said that the day temperature in Pune city during the summer season has touched 40 degrees Celsius only on a few occasions. “When the mercury touched 40 degrees Celsius, we experienced local instability in the weather. This has caused light rainfall with cloudy weather towards the evening. There were also thunderstorms and lightning accompanied with the rainfall but due to this, the following days become cooler. Thus, the warming effect has been cooled off,” said Kashyapi. Until May 24, the IMD has forecasted cloudy skies and pleasant days for Pune city. “After May 24, the temperature is not likely to rise in Pune. However, for Maharashtra, a marginal rise in day temperature may be seen in Vidarbha and Marathwada in the next few days until May 27,” said Kashyapi. As per the seasonal outlook for April to June issued by the IMD, it has clearly been stated that subdivision in the state will experience normal day temperature. Along with this, March as well as April this year reported very fewer incidents of heat waves. As per a recent report by IMD, in Maharashtra and rest of Central India, no frequent heat wave conditions were observed. Also, the maximum temperature over Maharashtra and Central India was below normal by 1 to 3 degrees Celsius. OP Sreejith, scientist, climate monitoring and forecast, IMD Pune said that the cause of isolated heat waves events in Central India which includes Maharashtra is that La Nina conditions are active this year. “We have observed the presence of lower-level wind convergence on many days in April this year. This resulted in rainfall and thunderstorms activities over most subdivisions in Maharashtra during the summer season. This eventually restricted the heating intensity to a few days and resulted in a comparatively pleasant summer,” said Sreejith. In May, Extremely Severe Cyclone (ESC) Tauktae brought rainfall and thunderstorms with gusty winds to many parts of the state. In Pune as well, more than 3 mm rainfall was reported in the last two days. Since 2009, Pune has reported a maximum day temperature in the month of May at 41.9 degrees Celsius in May 2010. However, this month in May, the day temperature did not even touch 40 degrees Celsius. Effect on Monsoon OP Sreejith, Scientist from IMD also added that there is no direct correlation between the intensity of heat in summer season and the monsoon. “The monsoon depends on various factors. IMD has issued the first long range forecast in April. We will be issuing another by the end of this month,” said Sreejith. In its first long range forecast for Monsoon 2021, IMD has forecasted that Southwest monsoon seasonal that is from, June to September, rainfall over the country as a whole is most likely to be normal that is 96 to 104 per cent of Long Period Average (LPA). “Quantitatively, between the month of June to September rainfall is likely to be 98 per cent of the Long Period Average (LPA) with a model error of ± 5%,” stated IMD.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pleasant-summer-season-will-have-no-direct-impact-on-monsoon-imd-101621349773532.html
19-05-2021||Pune||Active Covid cases drop in Pune by almost 50% in 12 days||There has been a steady decline in the number of active Covid-19 cases in areas under the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC). On May 5, there were 39,732 active cases in PMC. On May 17, that number had dropped to 18,440. The number of patients on oxygen support also reduced from 6,634 on May 5 to 5,286 on May 17.As a result, the availability of oxygenated beds in the city has eased. “The demand for beds with oxygen has reduced. This can be attributed to the decline in active cases,” said Dr Sanjeev Vavre, assistant health officer, PMC. Though the demand for oxygen beds has reduced, according to officials, the requirement for beds with ventilator support is still strong. “The demand for ventilator beds is still there. Patients from rural parts of Pune have contacted me. Though the number of patients has reduced we have started planning and preparing for the third wave. A special ward for paediatric Covid patients will be created at the COEP Jumbo hospital, in anticipation of the third wave,” said Rajendra Muthe, deputy commissioner, PMC. Dr HK Sale, executive director, Noble Hospital, said that the number of patients from outside Pune getting admitted to the hospital has increased. “There is still high demand for ventilator ICU beds. Mostly, these admissions are of patients from rural Pune, or out of Pune district, like Satara, Karad, Sangli, Daund, amnd Saswad. The oxygen burden has reduced,” said Dr HK Sale. As per data available on the Pune Division’s Covid dashboard for bed availability, on Tuesday afternoon, 2,662 oxygen beds of the 7,680 allocated Oxygen beds were vacant. Also, 106 ICU beds without ventilators were vacant, whereas only nine ventilator beds were vacant in the Pune city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/active-cases-drop-by-almost-50-in-12-days-101621347793422.html
19-05-2021||Pune||Pune becomes ‘Covid conscious’, a touch too late||I walk for an hour every day. The cops don’t stop me. The cops do not stop anyone out cycling or walking or running, as long as the mask is on and there are no groups. I walk from my home in Salisbury Park, up past the Central Defence Accounts office, take a right at the main road and then head to five road stretches which are de rigueur for exercisers, from either Salisbury Park, Pul gate, or from the Army area that surrounds it. Hutchings School, the road parallel to it, Middle Road, Napier road and the road that runs past the AFMC nurses quarters. All microcosms of a time when all of Pune was like these roads – bungalows with verdant foliage lining broad streets that for the most part, see little or no traffic. Not anymore. The lockdown effect (avoid the cops), or may be just a general overspill of Pune’s urban growth, now sees these laid-back, fully residential areas bustling with twice the amount of traffic as five years ago; certainly the case with Napier road. I walked the route in lockdown 1, and am walking it in the current lockdown. I walked the same route before the lockdowns and in between. Microcosmically, walking the same stretch for over a year allows you to take in the finer details of the roads. The houses, the dogs and Punekars, in general. Here is the shortlist of stuff I’ve noticed. What the spit is wrong with you? The average Punekar spits in public without a second thought to public cleanliness or a general rule of health. On the route I walk, I endeavour to go one day where I see no one spit. For over a year, it has not been possible. Someone will spit in public – man, woman and child. My mind travels back 20 years ago, when as a budding reporter, I covered an event in Sadashiv peth, attended by the likes of the late Dr Banoo Coyajee and Dr Rajiv Sarangpani, where the raison d’être of the meeting was public cleanliness and what ordinary citizens did, at the time, to ensure their public habits did not put public health at risk. Much like an AA meeting, one man stood up, said his name and then said, “I have not spit in public or on the road for the last seven years”. The tone and tenor of the sharing suggested spitting as an addiction for him, which he had conquered. Spitting, by and large, is a subconscious reality for the average Punekar. And it is sickening. Strays and pets pooping I tread carefully now. My family has a pet dog, a stray, picked off the street as a pup, now commands love and care that on most days, even I am jealous of. Must pets be allowed to poop on the street? Must pet owners who walk their dogs on the street carry the poop back with them? Are the animal saviours that scour Salisbury Park and Napier road ensuring that strays are fed, responsible for animal waste dotting the landscape? There is no easy answer, I get that. But, a smart city must evolve to tackle such community issues. A penchant for throwing out food The streets I walk, especially Hutchings school and Middle road, provide ideal getaways for autorickshaw drivers seeking to escape the afternoon heat (yes, I walk in the afternoon-early evening), and for all sorts of Punekars – youth looking for a perfect selfie in the middle of the road; young couples out for some quality time together and drug addicts and afternoon tipplers. I have encountered all on the route in some shape or form. The one common thread that binds all these different groups of people is their ability to throw food on the road. The drinkers will liberally leave their chaknya behind on the road; the couples, whatever snack they were nibbling on; and even the stop-for-lunch crowd… food is on the road. A true waste. Covid 19: Pune now gets it… a touch too late In lockdown one, Pune was under the impression that Covid-19 was “out there”, not so much able to infect you and me. Much like the helmet rule is for everyone else, and certainly not for me in “my area”, the mask rule was not strictly followed. Most people exercising on my route did not bother with the mask. Now, Pune gets it. Covid-19 is here. Everyone wears a mask. No one complains and the general lockdown is adhered to. Running, cycling, walking, all with masks on. The “what if” scenario beckons… but, “better late than never” is perhaps on point. The author is News Editor, HT Pune||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-becomes-covid-conscious-a-touch-too-late-101621347673500.html
19-05-2021||Chandigarh||Hospitals run out of Covid beds in Himachal||With the Covid-19 case count climbing in Himachal Pradesh, hospitals in major districts of the hill state are running out of oxygen-supported and ICU beds. The two major hospitals in Shimla, Indira Gandhi Medical College (IGMC) and Deen Dayal Upadhyay Hospital, are packed to capacity and denying admission to Covid patients. One such patient, Sain Ram Dhiman, 65, tested positive on May 7 and was in home isolation at Kumarsain but when his condition deteriorated, he was admitted to the government hospital at Khaneri in Rampur only to be referred to Deen Dayal Upadhyay Hospital. Three days ago, his condition deteriorated and he was referred him to IGMC for further treatment since he required a ventilator. DDU has ventilators but they are not operational since the hospital has only one anaesthetist. IGMC denied him admission. “For three days, I’ve been requesting the IGMC authorities to admit my father in-law but in vain. His condition deteriorated after his oxygen saturation fell to 52. I made several calls and even sought help from the chief minister’s helpline but to no avail. We are at God’s mercy,” said Rajinder Kaul. Patients in need of critical care are being referred to IGMC from Solan, Bilaspur and Sirmaur districts. According to data on the Covid capacity portal, the state has a total capacity of 3,473 beds in its dedicated Covid hospitals (DCHs), dedicated Covid health centres (DCHCs) and dedicated Covid care centres (DCCCs). On May 17, a total of 2,399 beds were occupied and only 1,074 available across the state. There are 2,409 oxygen beds of which 1,928 are occupied and 481 vacant. The number of ICU beds is 278 of which 241 occupied and only 37 are vacant. Can’t stretch more: Hospital authorities “We have 332 beds at IGMC and all of them are occupied. All 32 ventilators are being used,” said IGMC senior medical superintendent Janakraj Pakhretia. “Enhancing bed capacity will not solve the purpose. People have to follow Covid-appropriate behaviour,” he said. Deen Dayal Upadhyay Hospital is a 90-bed facility, but the capacity was augmented to cater to 137 patients. Today, all beds are occupied. “Our hospital is full to capacity, we can’t stretch anymore,” says DDU Hospital medical superintendent Ravinder Mokta. Shimla chief medical officer Surekha Chopra has suggested taking over the sanatorium that has 40 beds. The government has also taken over the regional Ayurveda hospital in Shimla that is packed to capacity now. The state government has announced that if required it will create more space for patients at the parking space in Tutti Kandi. Facility at Walker Hospital ready The Indian Army on Tuesday handed over 60-bed facility at its Walker Hospital in Sanjauli. Kangra district has 723 beds of which 614 occupied and 109 are available. All 70 ICU beds in the district are occupied. There are 557 beds with oxygen support of which only 47 are available. Kangra deputy commissioner Rakesh Kumar Prajapati said the authorities are managing in the current capacity as new patients are being admitted against the vacancy occurring on a daily basis after recovered patients are discharged. He said a 500-bed facility is coming up at Paraur near Palampur that will help ease the situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hospitals-run-out-of-covid-beds-in-himachal-101621339813726.html
19-05-2021||Delhi||Black marketing of Covid drugs: Here’s what 9 politicians told the Delhi Police||Nine politicians questioned by the Delhi Police for allegedly hoarding oxygen cylinders and medicines maintained they just helped connect people to chemists and others who could make them available for Covid-19 patients, according to the status report of the case.The police on Monday submitted the report with the statements of the politicians and told the Delhi high court that prima facie there was no evidence against the nine including Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)’s Gautam Gambhir, Indian Youth Congress president (IYC) BV Srinivas, and Dilip Pandey of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP).The court refused to accept the report and pulled up the police for the “vague and whitewashed inquiry.” The police are now back to probing the case. A crucial part of the probe will be how a doctor managed to get over 2,000 strips of antiviral Fabiflu tablets for Gambhir. The court noted that “medicines were hoarded by a certain doctor” and asked all political parties to submit whatever stock they had of medicines to the Directorate of Health Services.Also Read | Delhi’s Covid tally dips further with 4,482 cases; positivity rate down to 6.89%According to the status report, Gambhir told police the doctor volunteered to organise a free medical camp for his foundation between April 22 and May 7 for Covid-19 patients. “... 2,628 strips of Fabiflu were purchased from authorised vendors against the prescription of Dr... while payments were made by Gautam Gambhir Foundation, however, the aforesaid medicine was delivered by respective vendors directly to Dr….Throughout the period the said medicine remained under the control of Dr…” Gambir told the police. He said the medicines were distributed free of cost. Gambir added the remaining 285 strips of the medicines were still with the doctor, who has been requested to distribute them for free.HT is withholding the doctor’s name as he has not been questioned or named in the complaint.Gambhir was unavailable for comments despite repeated calls and text messages.Srinivas, in his statement, called the inquiry against him and other IYC members harassment as they have been at the forefront of providing relief and that their party was opposed to the Centre’s handling of the crisis. He maintained they connected people in need and added they “received oxygen equipment as donations and provided it free of cost to the people.” He said no money was charged for their services.Srinivas told HT the case is sub-judice. “I have already told the police how we did not buy or hoard a single strip of medicine.”Pandey told police he helped cricketer Unmukt Chand get Remdesivir for his mother by connecting him with a medical store. He maintained he never bought or possessed any Covid medicines.Pandey was unavailable for any comments. Earlier, he said that the timing of the police’s investigation looked suspicious, and it was wrong to question people for helping each other during the pandemic.Congress leader Chaudhary Anil Kumar, in his statement, linked a column he wrote about allegations of black marketing of Covid-19 medicines to his questioning.Kumar told HT: “When everyone is helping each other, instead of encouraging and supporting people who are helping, they are directing the entire state machinery against us.”Delhi BJP leader Harish Khurana told police he circulated the messages of people, who had approached him for help on social media for arranging medicines, oxygen, hospital beds. He maintained he did not buy or hoard any medicine or medical equipment.Also Read | Stop Singapore flights, Kejriwal tells Centre amid concerns of new Covid strainKhurana told HT he has full faith in the judiciary. “We have nothing to hide and are ready to cooperate in the investigation. If helping someone is a crime, then we are ready to commit that crime every day.”Ali Mehdi of the Delhi Congress told the police he sought his party colleague Ashok Bagel’s help for a woman who approached him for help in getting an oxygen cylinder.Mehdi was unavailable for his response when HT tried to contact him.Bagel told police he arranged the cylinder from a family in his neighbourhood that no longer needed it as a person on its support had died of the Covid-19 complications. He told HT they have not hoarded any medicine. “We have nothing to fear. We have helped people find medical resources when they did not get help from anywhere. The allegations are wrong.”Former Congress lawmaker Mukesh Sharma told police he only guided people to the closest chemist shops. “I helped people get admission in hospitals. I did not buy medicines or distribute [them]… I only give information about medical shops.”Also Watch | Hunt for Sushil Kumar: From an Olympic champion to a wanted criminalSharma told HT he has faith in the judiciary and will cooperate with the police. “...I only guided people to go to certain medical stores. I also told them to get receipts for all medicines that they buy. I will continue to help people. Today also [Monday], I helped some people who were asking for help. I strongly believe people should not hoard medicines at a time such as this.”Former Rajya Sabha member Shahid Siddiqui was questioned over his tweet in which he thanked Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and Sharma for arranging Remdesivir. He told police he along with his wife and daughter were severely ill and sent an SOS on social media for the medicine. Siddiqui said Priyanka Gandhi provided two doses of the medicine, which were originally procured for Congress leader Rahul Gandhi but were not used.Siddiqui told HT the Delhi Police were probing the case because of political reasons. “If police really want to investigate, I will give them numbers of people who were sending me messages offering to sell Remdesivir for over ₹20,000. The priority of the police was clear when they choose to probe people receiving or offering help during this pandemic. In my statement, I have clearly mentioned how someone helped me with the medicines. I have nothing to fear.”The Delhi Police said they are probing the case on the directions of the court and will submit a fresh report next week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/only-connected-people-politicians-accused-of-hoarding-tell-delhi-police-101621333633471.html
19-05-2021||Mumbai||No response yet, BMC likely to extend deadline for global vaccine bid||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Tuesday extended the deadline for participation in the tender floated for procurement of Covid-19 vaccine from the international market. As BMC failed to get any bids from vaccine manufacturers yet by the last date – May 18 (Monday) – the civic body revised the deadline by a week to May 25. BMC did receive three proposals for licences of Russia’s Sputnik V vaccine but they were not formal bids, said civic officials. Additional municipal commissioner P Velrasu said, “We have extended the bid date by one week. We have received three proposals. All of them are for Sputnik vaccine but are incomplete in paper work. So we have given the extension.”On Monday, Velrasu had said, “We have not got any response yet, and we are likely to extend the last date for bidding by one more week. A final decision will be taken on Tuesday evening.”Also Read | Padma Shri awardee Dr KK Aggarwal succumbs to Covid-19The BMC has planned to procure 10 million vaccine doses from the international market in order to speed up the drive in city. For this, it floated a global expression of interest on May 12. According to officials, any interested supplier can bid for the tender. China has been restricted from bidding. Further, the vaccines that do not have Centre’s approval will have to get the same on their own, according to BMC’s tender document.Meanwhile, Shiv Sena MP (Member of Parliament) Rahul Shewale has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, demanding that a uniform set of guidelines for global tenders of vaccine procurement be formed. “Through a state-wise global tender, the states are only pitting against each other. This is creating unhealthy competition between states and the only entity that is most likely to benefit from this is vaccine manufacturers, “Shewale stated in his letter.  He added, “I suggest that the Central government step in and frame guidelines for procuring these vaccines that would suffice the needs of the country. The government should create a single-window clearance to fast track the system for vaccine-related approvals.”Shewale also highlighted that due to shortage of vaccines, immunisation for the 18-44 year age group has been suspended.” On Tuesday, 16,754 citizens were vaccinated in the city of which 4,274 were in the age group of 18 to 44 years of age, 2,514 in the age group of 45 to 59 years of age group and 9,474 were above the age of 60 years. This followed by 98 beneficiaries being health care workers and 394 being front line workers. Overall, in the city 2,858,103 citizens were vaccinated.“According to our estimates, around 300,000 senior citizens are yet to take their first dose of vaccine. Based on the response this week, we will decide whether to continue vaccination for senior citizens on a walk-in basis or not. On Tuesday, the response was probably low due to rainfall but we expect the response to get better from Wednesday,” said Suresh Kakani, additional BMC commissioner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/no-response-yet-bmc-likely-to-extend-deadline-for-global-vaccine-bid-101621313772732.html
19-05-2021||World||UK increasingly confident Covid-19 vaccines work against Indian variant||Britain is increasingly confident that vaccines work against the coronavirus variant first found in India, Prime Minister Boris Johnson said on Wednesday, with a leading epidemiologist saying it may be spreading less quickly than first feared.Johnson has warned that the emergence of the B.1.617.2 variant might derail his plans to lift England's lockdown fully on June 21, but on Wednesday he said the latest data had been encouraging."We have increasing confidence vaccines are effective against all variants, including the Indian variant," he told parliament.Johnson last week said the extent to which the variant could disrupt the planned exit from lockdown would depend on how much more transmissible it was.British health minister Matt Hancock told a media conference there had been 2,967 cases of the variant, and reiterated that a decision on the next stage of easing of social restrictions would not take place until June 14.England's deputy chief medical officer Jonathan Van-Tam said the best estimate was that the Indian variant was somewhere between a few percent and 50% more transmissible, and data should provide a clearer picture next week."I think most people feel it is going to be somewhere in the middle, rather than at the extremes of that band," Van-Tam told a media conference.Neil Ferguson, an epidemiologist at Imperial College London, said there was a "glimmer of hope" from the latest data that the transmissibility of the variant might be lower than first feared."The magnitude of that advantage seems to have dropped a little bit with the most recent data," he told BBC radio, adding more data was needed.He said that while it was likely vaccines would continue to protect against severe disease, the variant might lead to reduced vaccine efficacy against infection and transmission.Ferguson said the initial rapid growth of B.1.617.2 had been among people who had travelled, were more likely to live in multi-generational households or in deprived areas, and that the ease of transmission might not be replicated in other settings.Graham Medley, a professor of disease modelling at the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine and a member of the government's Scientific Advisory Group for Emergencies (SAGE), said that while the variant was growing quickly in some hotspots, "we haven't yet seen it take off and grow rapidly everywhere else"."One of the key things we'll be looking for in the coming weeks will be: how far does it spread outside of those areas," he told Reuters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-increasingly-confident-covid-19-vaccines-work-against-indian-variant-101621446713040.html
19-05-2021||World||Egypt awaits Israel response to cease-fire plan||An Egyptian diplomat says some of the country’s top officials are waiting for Israel’s response to a cease-fire offer, and that they expect amendments to their proposal.He says they hope France’s increasing efforts could spur the United States to exert its influence on Israel and Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu to agree to stop the fighting as soon as possible.He added that if that doesn't happen, there are some discussions among Arab and Islamic nations, along with China, to put the issue before the U.N. General Assembly in an effort to bypass the Security Council and the US’s veto power there.The diplomat spoke on condition of anonymity in line with regulations.Egypt has been trying to broker a cease-fire between neighboring Israel and Hamas, as it is one of a handful of countries that maintains official ties with both.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/egypt-awaits-israel-response-to-cease-fire-plan-101621446305930.html
19-05-2021||World||UK begins 'booster' shot trial of 7 different Covid-19 vaccines||Britain launched a nationwide study on Wednesday to explore whether giving a third dose "booster" shot of coronavirus vaccines would be safe and effective in extending immune protection against Covid-19.The trial, which aims to recruit nearly 3,000 participants, will look at seven different Covid-19 shots, some of which are already approved by regulators and in wide use and others that are still in development.British officials have been planning for the possibility of a booster vaccination campaign before the winter after initially targeting immunisation with a two-dose schedule for the whole adult population by the summer.Major vaccine makers, as well as some policymakers in the United States, have also suggested that booster or even annual Covid-19 shots might be needed. But some global health experts have questioned whether there is evidence to show such repeat vaccinations are necessary.Saul Faust, a professor of paediatric immunology and infectious diseases at Britain's Southampton University who will co-lead the trial, said its findings would inform vaccination strategy planners and politicians "in their decision on whether to boost anybody with a third at all, or - if they are going to get a booster - which vaccine might be used".The vaccines being evaluated include the Pfizer, AstraZeneca and Moderna Covid-19 shots already being rolled out in Britain, as well as vaccines from Johnson & Johnson, Novavax, Valneva and CureVac for which Britain has future supply deals.They will be given as third shots to people who have received two doses of Pfizer or AstraZeneca's vaccine already, with initial findings expected in September."The data from this world-first clinical trial will help shape the plans for our booster programme later this year," health minister Matt Hancock said.Hancock also said Britain would host an in-person G7 health ministers meeting in Oxford on June 3-4, ahead of a leaders meeting later in the month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-begins-booster-shot-trial-of-7-different-covid-19-vaccines-101621441240031.html
19-05-2021||World||De-escalate today, Biden tells Israeli PM||President Joe Biden on Wednesday told Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu that he “expected significant de-escalation today on the path to a ceasefire” in the Gaza conflict, setting a deadline amid growing calls for an end to hostilities, including from his political allies.Though still staunchly supportive of Israel, many Democratic lawmakers have called for a ceasefire and pressed the administration to do more.“The president conveyed to the prime minister that he expected a significant de-escalation today on the path to a ceasefire,” the White House said in a readout of their call.The US president has not yet explicitly called for a ceasefire and has calibrated his comments from saying in his first remarks on the ongoing violence on May 13 - that “Israel has a right to defend itself when you have thousands of rockets flying into your territory”.By Monday, the US president had shifted his position significantly. In a phone call with Netanyahu, he “expressed his support for a ceasefire”.The United States has been “engaged in quiet, intensive diplomacy” in the West Asia conflict with conversations with Israel and the Palestinians, but not with Hamas, which controls Gaza. The United States has designated Hamas a terrorist group. Egypt and Qatar are dealing with Hamas.Senior US diplomat Hady Amr, the deputy assistant secretary of state for Israel and Palestinian affairs, has been in the region and conducted talks with both sides.But, Biden has seemed increasingly at odds with many Democrats. Last week 28 Democratic senators - more than half the party’s strength in the chamber - jointly called for a ceasefire, including majority leader Chuck Schumer, a staunch supporter of Israel. Other known backers have also expressed public unease with Israel’s actions.Progressive Democrats in the House of Representatives are also calling for the administration to do more. “The president needs to tell Netanyahu to stop,” Ro Khanna told the Washington Post. “While Biden’s ceasefire comments were a marginally positive step,” Khanna said, “I think it has to be much stronger.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/deescalate-today-biden-tells-israeli-pm-101621443155320.html
19-05-2021||World||Joe Biden tells Netanyahu he expects 'significant de-escalation' in Israel||President Joe Biden stepped up the pressure on Israel to end 10 days of violent skirmishes with Palestinians, making clear in a call Wednesday with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu that he expected “significant de-escalation” by day's end.Biden asked Netanyahu to move “toward the path to a cease-fire,” according to a White House description of their conversation.There is pressure, too, on Biden to do more, with more than 200 people killed in the fighting. Until Wednesday, Biden had avoided pushing the American ally more directly and publicly for a cease-fire or conveyed such a level of urgency for ending Israeli airstrikes targeting Hamas in the thickly populated Gaza Strip.The Biden administration had relied on what officials described as “quiet, intensive” diplomacy, including quashing a UN Security Council statement that would have addressed a cease-fire.The administration's handling opened a divide between Biden and Democratic lawmakers, dozens of whom have called for a cease-fire.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/joe-biden-tells-netanyahu-he-expects-significant-de-escalation-today-in-israel-101621433389235.html
19-05-2021||World||'Covid will be easier than Israeli missiles': Gaza's fear of bomb beats virus||Like thousands of others in Gaza, Umm Jihad Ghabayin fled home with her children from Israeli bombardment without taking any essentials -- let alone a facemask against the raging Covid-19 pandemic.In response to rocket fire from Gaza, Israeli strikes have pounded the crowded Palestinian enclave since May 10, killing at least 219 people, according to Gaza's health ministry.As entire tower blocks tumble, reduced to smoking rubble by bombs, the immediate danger of devastating air strikes has replaced for Gazans the less obvious -- but still deadly -- risk of Covid-19."Of course I'm afraid of catching coronavirus, but it will be easier (to cope with) than Israeli missiles," mother-of-six Ghabayin said."Missiles kill us," one of her children added, aged eight, his feet covered in dust.Israeli air strikes have obliterated key infrastructure including water and electricity in Gaza, an impoverished and densely packed enclave home to some two million Palestinians.After fleeing her home, Ghabayin has found shelter at a UN-supported school where she feels safer from strikes -- but acknowledges the risk of transmission of Covid-19 is high."Since we arrived on Friday, we haven't showered once," 34-year-old Ghabayin told AFP. "The water is cut off for hours, and there is a total lack of hygiene".- Covid 'epicentres' -In the schools-turned-shelters, and on Gaza's bomb-ravaged streets, few are thinking about wearing masks."Israel's continuing attacks are undermining our efforts against coronavirus," said Ashraf al-Qudra, Gaza's health ministry spokesman.Gaza, under Israeli blockade since 2007, recorded few Covid-19 cases in the early months of the pandemic.Access to the territory is tightly controlled by Israel and Egypt, and measures imposed by the enclave's Hamas rulers initially slowed the spread of the virus.But in an impoverished society with poor health infrastructure, containing the virus proved difficult to control.Before the military escalation, the rate of positive tests was among the highest in the world, at 28 percent, and hospitals were overwhelmed by patients.The World Health Organisation says over 100,000 people have tested positive for coronavirus in Gaza, of whom over 930 have died.Adnan Abou Hasna, a spokesman UN agency for Palestinian refugees, UNRWA, said that the schools transformed into shelters for the more than 40,000 displaced Gazans could become coronavirus "epicentres".While hand-washing stations and other sanitary facilities had been set up, he admitted these measures were inadequate.- Unbearable -On Monday, Israeli strikes hit a clinic, the health ministry headquarters and the only laboratory in Gaza that was conducting Covid-19 tests.Two doctors were also killed.Before the military escalation between Hamas and Israel a week ago, authorities in Gaza tested an average of some 1,600 people per day.Protecting medical infrastructure and health workers is an "imperative in all circumstances", World Health Organization chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus warned Monday."It is essential that international humanitarian standards are fully respected," he added.The conflict is also hampering the vaccine rollout, with Gazans relying primarily on procurements from the West Bank-based Palestinian Authority, which must deliver stocks through Israeli territory.The pandemic had already placed Gaza's health system under massive strain, now buckling as it tries to treat the more than 1,500 people injured by Israeli strikes, according to health ministry statistics.Units previously dedicated to coronavirus patients have had to reorganise to cope with the influx of casualties.Salem Al-Attar, 38, sheltering in a UNRWA school after his home was destroyed in a strike, said he feared the tightly-packed conditions could spread the virus swiftly."The situation is disastrous," he said, a father of six.On the other side of school courtyard, Umm Mansour al-Qurum cried after receiving a phone call from a neighbour that half of her house had been destroyed in a strike."The situation is unbearable -- coronavirus and the war at the same time," said the 65-year-old, who fled the bombing with 30 members of her extended family. "I can't take it anymore".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-will-be-easier-than-israeli-missiles-gaza-s-fear-of-bomb-beats-virus-101621432549176.html
19-05-2021||World||Substantial part of US donations of 80 mn Covid-19 vaccines to be allocated through COVAX||A substantial part of the 80 million Covid-19 vaccines to be donated by the United States will be rolled out through the WHO-backed COVAX facility though country-specific allocations are yet to be made, President Joe Biden’s point-person for the global pandemic response said on Wednesday.Gayle Smith, the coordinator for the global Covid-19 response at the state department, said the efforts of the US administration are focused on covering gaps in three areas – dose-sharing, increasing the supply of vaccines and financing for the COVAX facility.Biden announced on Monday the US will share 20 million doses from its surplus stocks of Pfizer, Moderna and Johnson & Johnson vaccines by the end of June. This will be in addition to the earlier commitment to share 60 million doses of the AstraZeneca vaccine. “We intend that the allocation of the vaccines will include a substantial portion though COVAX but we have not made final decisions,” Smith, a former USAID director, told a news briefing. The US is confident that COVAX, the largest vaccine delivery platform, will undertake fair and science and data-based allocation of vaccines, she added.“We’re going to be putting 80 million additional vaccines into the mix, making us the largest sharer of vaccines thus far,” she said. “I think as we all know, supply is a very big issue and we need many more vaccines for countries all over the world.”Asked specifically about plans to assist India with vaccines, she replied, “From the president on down, given the surge there, India has been a major priority for us. We have delivered $100 million in emergency assistance [and] mobilised with the American private sector a pretty amazing response.”As with other countries, she noted, the specific allocation of vaccines for India is yet to be decided.In response to a question on whether one billion doses to be made in India for the Quad Vaccine Partnership could be used within the country, Smith said the final allocation will depend on conditions existing when these shots are available by 2022.“On the Quad production, given the timeline for that production, I think its dispensation will depend to a great extent on the state of play around the world with vaccine coverage. That timeline is fairly extended,” she said. “I think... in principle, those doses are available for internal use but also for export to the rest of the world. I think the final allocation or plan for that will depend on what conditions we’re facing at the time they are available.”The US International Development Finance Corporation (DFC) has launched a global initiative for investments in multiple regions, including the Quad Vaccine Partnership to supply a billion doses by the end of 2022.Smith said the US is working with producers around the world both to increase vaccine supplies and to bolster supply chains for ingredients, which too are in short supply. The DFC is making investments in manufacturing sites around the world and providing capital to increase supplies in the short and medium-term, she said.The US will also work closely with its partners, she said, noting that Biden had said “we can do a great deal but we cannot do it alone”. Collaboration with the G7 and European Union will help efforts “to get to the scale needed to bring this pandemic under control,” she added.The US is also hoping its decision to donate 80 million doses will encourage other countries to step up to share more doses so that there is maximum vaccine coverage. “Our view with respect to vaccine diplomacy... is that vaccines are tools for public health, they are the means for bringing this pandemic to an end. We do not see them, do not intend to use them as means for influence or pressure,” Smith said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/substantial-part-of-us-donations-of-80-mn-covid-19-vaccines-to-be-allocated-through-covax-101621431333311.html
19-05-2021||World||What Beijing's new crackdown means for cryptocurrency in China||Chinese regulators have tightened restrictions that ban financial institutions and payment companies from providing services related to cryptocurrencies, marking a fresh crackdown on digital money.Compared with a previous ban issued in 2017, the new rules greatly expanded the scope of prohibited services, and judged that "virtual currencies are not supported by any real value".What are the new measures?Three financial industry associations on Tuesday directed their members, which include banks and online payment firms, not to offer any crypto-related services, such as account openings, registration, trading, clearing, settlement and insurance, reiterating the 2017 ban.But the new ban, which was posted by the People's Bank of China (PBOC), also covers services that were not previously mentioned.For example, it made clear that institutions must not accept virtual currencies, or use them as a means of payment and settlement. Nor can institutions provide exchange services between cryptocurrencies and the yuan or foreign currencies.Additionally, institutions were prohibited from providing cryptocurrency saving, trust or pledging services and issuing crypto-related financial products. And virtual currencies must not be used as investment targets by trust and fund products.Banks and payment companies were also urged to step up monitoring of money flows involved in cryptocurrency trading, and coordinate more closely in identifying such risks.The directives were made in a joint statement from the National Internet Finance Association of China, the China Banking Association and the Payment and Clearing Association of China.What were earlier rules in China against cryptocurrencies?China does not recognise cryptocurrencies as legal tender and the banking system does not accept cryptocurrencies or provide relevant services.In 2013, the government defined bitcoin as a virtual commodity and said individuals were allowed to freely participate in its online trade.However, later that year, financial regulators, including the PBOC, banned banks and payment companies from providing bitcoin-related services.In September 2017, China banned Initial Coin Offerings (ICOs) in a bid to protect investors and curb financial risks.The ICO rules also banned cryptocurrency trading platforms from converting legal tender into cryptocurrencies and vice versa.The restrictions prompted most such trading platforms to shut down with many moving offshore.The ICO rules also barred financial firms and payment companies from providing services for ICOs and cryptocurrencies, including account openings, registration, trading, clearing or liquidation services.By July 2018, 88 virtual currency trading platforms and 85 ICO platforms had withdrawn from the market, the PBOC said.Why has China tightened regulation?The global bitcoin bull run has revived cryptocurrency trading in China.Tuesday's industry directive warned speculative bitcoin trading had rebounded, infringing "the safety of people's property and disrupting the normal economic and financial order."Many Chinese investors were now trading on platforms owned by Chinese exchanges that had relocated overseas, including Huobi and OKEx. Meanwhile, China's over-the-counter market for cryptocurrencies has become busy again, while once-dormant trading chartrooms on social media have revived.China-focused exchanges, which also include Binance and MXC, allow Chinese individuals to open accounts online, a process that takes just a few minutes. They also facilitate peer-to-peer deals in OTC markets that help convert Chinese yuan into cryptocurrencies. Such transactions are made through banks, or online payment channels such as Alipay or WeChat Pay.Retail investors also buy "computing power" from cryptocurrency miners, who design various investment schemes that promise quick and fat returns.Meanwhile, cryptocurrencies' potential threat to China's fiat currency, the yuan, has spurred the PBOC to launch its own digital currency.What's the impact of the crackdown?The fresh crackdown makes it more difficult for individuals to buy cryptocurrencies using various payment channels, and could impact miners' business by making it harder for them to exchange cryptocurrencies for yuan.But banks and payment companies also face challenges of identifying money flows related to cryptocurrencies.Winston Ma, NYU Law School adjunct professor and author of the book "the Digital War", said the new rules were designed to completely cut crypto-related transactions out of China's financial systems, and expects the government to roll out new regulations targeting crypto assets.Hong Kong's Bitcoin Association said in a tweet in response to China's reiterated ban: "For those new to bitcoin, it is customary for the People's Bank of China to ban bitcoin at least once in a bull cycle."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/what-beijing-s-new-crackdown-means-for-cryptocurrency-in-china-101621430093291.html
19-05-2021||World||EU relaxes travel measures, to allow tourists fully vaccinated against Covid-19||The European Union on Wednesday took a step toward relaxing tourism travel for visitors from outside the bloc, with EU ambassadors agreeing on measures to allow fully vaccinated visitors in.They also agreed on easing the criteria for nations to be considered a safe country, from which all tourists can travel. Up to now, that list included only seven nations.The EU imposed strict measures last year to contain Covid-19 outbreaks but the bloc's 27 ambassadors now say many of those restrictions on non-essential travel should be eased. Specifically, tourists from outside the bloc who have been fully vaccinated should be allowed in.The EU “Council will now recommend that member states ease some of the current restrictions" for those who have been vaccinated, said EU Commission spokesman Christian Wigand.“The council should also soon expand the list of non-EU countries with a good epidemiological situation from where travel is permitted,” said Wigand. The EU's European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control is to give advice on the list.EU nations have been struggling throughout the pandemic to prop up their vital tourism industry and hope to recover some income over the peak summer season.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/eu-relaxes-travel-measures-to-allow-tourists-fully-vaccinated-against-covid19-101621425585402.html
19-05-2021||World||Bitcoin plunges to USD 38,000 as Elon Musk-fueled rally Collapses||The Elon Musk-propelled rally in Bitcoin just evaporated.The world’s largest cryptocurrency has erased all the gains it clocked up following Tesla Inc.’s Feb. 8 announcement that it would use corporate cash to buy the asset and accept it as a form of payment for its vehicles. Now traders are bracing for more pain as the token breaches a key technical level.Prices for the digital asset dropped 12% to about $38,000 as of 7:38 a.m. in New York. It’s now down around 40% from its record of almost $65,000 set in April. Other crypto tokens dropped in tandem on Wednesday, with Ether losing more than 20%.Fueling the volatility is Tesla CEO Musk himself, whose social-media utterances have whipsawed the crypto community. A statement from the People’s Bank of China on Tuesday reiterating that digital tokens can’t be used as a form of payment added to the selloff.Now, as Bitcoin takes out its 200-day moving average, chart-watchers are warning of more danger ahead.“From a technical standpoint, the indicators are flashing red,” said Ipek Ozkardeskaya, senior analyst at Swissquote in Gland, Switzerland. “The next important support level stands near $37,000, then the $30,000 mark. There is a chance that we see a pullback to these levels and even below, at least in the short run.”Cryptocurrency-linked stocks also dropped, with Coinbase Global Inc. falling 5.2% in U.S. premarket trading and Marathon Digital Holdings Inc. slumping 12%.Analysts have been warning of Bitcoin’s vulnerability, with recent predictions that it would fall back to $40,000. In addition to dropping below its 200-day moving average, other indicators -- like a bearish head and shoulders pattern in Bitcoin futures -- may also give backers cause for worry.Then there’s Musk.With his often cryptic Twitter posts moving millions, the Tesla chief has become a Svengali-like character in the world of crypto. Bitcoin embarked on a multi-month rally following Tesla’s February announcement, soaring to its $64,870 peak, in large part due to the company’s embrace.Wiped OutAt the time, Tesla’s acceptance was hailed as a watershed moment for the coin, with many in the crypto world seeing it as yet another step in its evolution.All that’s been wiped out after Musk sent investors into a tizzy following a mass of head-spinning tweets that started last week when he criticized Bitcoin’s energy use.Tesla would suspend car purchases using the token, he announced, calling recent energy-consumption trends “insane.” Over the weekend, after insinuating his EV company might have sold its Bitcoin holdings, he sent out tweets clarifying that it hadn’t. All of which had traders scrambling.“Realistically, it is not the first time Elon Musk’s tweets have been erratic and, frankly, wrong,” said Ulrik Lykke, executive director at crypto hedge fund ARK36. “The crypto markets are extremely emotionally driven and their participants are prone to overreacting to events they perceive as negative.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/bitcoin-plunges-to-usd-38-000-as-elon-musk-fueled-rally-collapses-101621426031257.html
19-05-2021||World||YouTube experiences global outage, fixes issue after multiple users complain on social media||YouTube experienced a global outage reportedly earlier on Wednesday morning (IST) causing many users to complain on microblogging site Twitter. Confused users, initially unaware of the outage, complained of not being able to play videos and also of issues with logging in and user accounts.Data from Downdetector, a website that provides real-time status and outage information, showed that at least 10,000 users have complained of outages in YouTube services between 8am and 9am (IST), after which, the number of people reporting the outage fell drastically.Following the many complaints by users of the platform, #YouTubedown was found trending on Twitter earlier in the day. Noticing the reports, YouTube responded saying that the issue was fixed and thanked its users for reporting the outage. “We’re seeing reports around difficulties accessing YouTube services within the last hour. We can confirm that this is now fixed and you should be able to access our service without any issues. Thanks for your reports and do let us know if you’re still facing any problems!” the company tweeted via its official Twitter handle @TeamYouTube.Later on Wednesday evening, YouTube updated that few other users have complained that the issue has been repeating and again confirmed that it has been fixed. “Update - We received new reports about this issue. Our teams looked into it and now we can confirm it's resolved (again). We'll keep a close watch and let us know if you find any problems!” However, downdetector showed that not many users have reported an outage and as of 4pm, only 29 users had reported.In a separate incident earlier on Wednesday, YouTube also tweeted to creators saying, “If you were having issues uploading or watching videos on YouTube (including live streams) in the last ~45 mins – this issue has been fixed. Note: if your video is processing, it should complete now – otherwise you may need to reupload. Thanks for all of your reports!”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/youtube-experiences-global-outage-fixes-issue-after-multiple-users-complain-on-social-media-101621425854031.html
19-05-2021||World||China, US clash over Winter Olympics boycott call||China on Wednesday said the US House speaker Nancy Pelosi was “full of lies” after she called for a “diplomatic boycott” of the 2022 Beijing Winter Olympics over human rights abuses.US lawmakers are getting increasingly vocal about an Olympic boycott and have lashed out at American firms, arguing their silence about what the state department has termed “a genocide of Uighurs and other ethnic minorities in China was abetting the Chinese government”.“What I propose - and join those who are proposing - is a diplomatic boycott,” Pelosi said, in which “lead countries of the world withhold their attendance at the Olympics”.Pelosi’s comments drew a strong response from China, which denies ill-treating Muslim minorities and has claimed that camps in Xinjiang, where an unknown number have been held, are vocational training centres, meant to deradicalise and train them for employment.“Some US individuals’ remarks are full of lies and disinformation,” foreign ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian said on Wednesday.“US politicians should stop using the Olympic movement to play despicable political games,” Zhao said. “Some people in the US hype themselves up as moral authority. I don’t know where they get the nerve to say so.”Zhao said that the US’ intention of using human rights issues is to divert attention from its own historical and present human rights crimes, disclose the US’ motive of containing China’s development under the guise of so-called human rights issues, and expose the hypocrisy of the so-called democracy and human rights of the US.CHINA TARGETS US OVER TAIWAN STRAITBesides strongly criticising Pelosi’s statement, Beijing also accused Washington of threatening the peace and stability of the Taiwan Strait after a US warship sailed through the sensitive waterway that separates Taiwan from China.The US Navy’s 7th Fleet said the Arleigh Burke-class guided missile destroyer USS Curtis Wilbur conducted a “routine Taiwan Strait transit” on Tuesday in accordance with international law. “The ship’s transit through the Taiwan Strait demonstrates the US commitment to a free and open Indo-Pacific. The United States military will continue to fly, sail, and operate anywhere international law allows,” the US navy said.A spokesperson for China’s Eastern Theatre Command expressed strong opposition and condemned the move, which comes amid heightened tensions between the two powers.The spokesperson, Colonel Zhang Chunhui said that by sending the guided missile destroyer USS Curtis Wilbur through the Taiwan Strait and hyping the event publicly, the US sent the wrong signals to “Taiwan independence” forces; Beijing claims the self-ruled democracy as a breakaway region.Chunhui said the passage of the US warship deliberately disturbed and damaged the regional situation and harmed peace and stability in the Taiwan Strait.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-us-clash-over-winter-olympics-boycott-call-101621425933575.html
19-05-2021||World||Israel says it has no 'timeframe' for an end to Gaza hostilities||Israel said on Wednesday it was not setting a timeframe for an end to hostilities with Gaza as its military pounded the Palestinian enclave with air strikes and Hamas militants unleashed new cross-border rocket attacks.Palestinian medical officials said 219 people had now been killed in 10 days of aerial bombardments which have destroyed roads, buildings and other infrastructure, and worsened the already dire humanitarian situation in Gaza.Israeli authorities put the death toll at 12 in Israel, where repeated rocket attacks have caused panic and sent people rushing into shelters. Regional and US-led diplomatic efforts to secure a ceasefire have intensified but so far failed.Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu made no mention of any halt to the fighting in public remarks at a briefing to foreign ambassadors to Israel, saying his country was engaged in "forceful deterrence" to prevent future conflict with Hamas.In remarks reported by Israeli media from a closed question-and-answer session, he was quoted as saying: "We're not standing with a stopwatch. We want to achieve the goals of the operation. Previous operations lasted a long time so it is not possible to set a timeframe."In a 25-minute attack overnight, Israel bombarded targets including what its military said were tunnels in the southern Gaza Strip used by Hamas, the Islamist group that governs Gaza.Some 50 rockets were fired from the enclave, the Israeli military said, with sirens sounding in the coastal city of Ashdod, south of Tel Aviv, and in areas closer to the Gaza border. There were no reports of injuries or damage overnight but days of rocket fire have unsettled many Israelis.Nearly 450 buildings in densely populated Gaza have been destroyed or badly damaged, including six hospitals and nine primary-care health centres, and more than 52,000 Palestinians have been displaced, the UN humanitarian agency said.The damage has left large craters and piles of rubble across the coastal enclave, and deepened long-running concerns about living conditions in Gaza."Whoever wants to learn about the humanity of the (Israelis) should come to the Gaza Strip and look at the houses that got destroyed on top of those who lived in them," said university lecturer Ahmed al-Astal, standing by the rubble of his house in Khan Younis in southern Gaza.He said there had been no warning before his home was destroyed in an air strike before dawn.Israel, which blames the latest hostilities on Hamas, says it issues warnings to evacuate buildings that are to be fired on and that it attacks only what it regards as military targets."We try to target those who target us. With great precision," Netanyahu told the foreign envoys."As surgical an operation as it is, even in a surgical room in a hospital you don't have the ability to prevent collateral damage around effected tissues. Even then you can't. And certainly in a military operation you cannot."DiplomacyHamas began firing rockets nine days ago in retaliation for what it said were Israeli rights abuses against Palestinians in Jerusalem during the Muslim holy month of Ramadan.The rocket attacks followed Israeli security police clashes with worshippers at al-Aqsa Mosque in Jerusalem and a court case by Israeli settlers to evict Palestinians from a neighbourhood in Israeli-annexed East Jerusalem.The hostilities are the most serious between Hamas and Israel in years, and, in a departure from previous Gaza conflicts, have helped fuel street violence in Israeli cities between Jews and Arabs.Hamas' leading role in confronting Israel over Jerusalem, an issue that resonates with many Palestinians, poses a challenge to its main rival, West Bank-based President Mahmoud Abbas, who last month cancelled a parliamentary election in which the group appeared likely to make gains.France called on Tuesday for a UN Security Council resolution on the violence. Diplomats said the United States told the Council a "public pronouncement right now" would not help calm the crisis."Our goal is to get to the end of this conflict. We are going to evaluate day by day what the right approach is. It continues to be that quiet, intensive behind-the-scenes discussions are tactically our approach at this time," White House press secretary Jen Psaki told reporters on Tuesday.Egypt and U.N. mediators also stepped up diplomatic efforts, and the U.N. General Assembly will discuss the violence on Thursday.Israel's N12 TV news, quoting unidentified Palestinian sources, reported that Egypt, via "secret channels", had proposed that Israel-Gaza fighting end on Thursday morning.Ezzat El-Reshiq, a member of Hamas' political bureau who is based in Qatar, issued a statement on Tuesday saying reports that it had agreed to such a ceasefire were untrue.The latest deaths included three Palestinians killed in overnight air strikes, Gaza officials said, including a journalist with Hamas's Al-Aqsa radio station.Gaza medical officials say the Palestinian death toll includes 63 children, and that more than 1,500 people have been wound 500 wounded since fighting began on May 10. Israeli authorities say the death toll in Israel includes two children.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/israel-says-it-has-no-timeframe-for-an-end-to-gaza-hostilities-101621423052073.html
19-05-2021||World||Queen Elizabeth 'absolutely devastated' after puppy dies: Report||Queen Elizabeth II is grieving the death of one of two puppies that she was given shortly before her husband Prince Philip died, according to a report Wednesday."The Queen is absolutely devastated," The Sun tabloid quoted a Windsor Castle source as saying. "Everyone concerned is upset as this comes so soon after she lost her husband."The Queen lost her husband of 73 years in April and had found solace in walking five-month-old Fergus, who died unexpectedly, and Muick most days on the grounds of Windsor Castle, the newspaper said.Prince Andrew reportedly gave his mother the two dorgi puppies -- a cross between dachshunds and the queen's beloved corgis breed -- in February as a surprise to cheer her up after 99-year-old Philip went into hospital that month. He died on April 9.Buckingham Palace did not comment.The 95-year-old Queen used to be a keen breeder of corgis, a short-legged Welsh breed. She has given that up, citing her advancing age, but The Sun said she was thrilled by the new puppies.Fergus was named after the Queen's uncle, Fergus Bowes-Lyon, who was killed in World War I, The Sun said.Muick is the name of a loch on the Scottish royal estate at Balmoral. The Queen still has one older dorgi called Candy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/queen-elizabeth-absolutely-devastated-after-puppy-dies-report-101621421577905.html
19-05-2021||World||Malawi burns 20,000 AstraZeneca vaccine doses that expired||Malawi has burned nearly 20,000 doses of AstraZeneca vaccines because they had expired.The government incinerated 19,610 doses of the vaccine at Kamuzu Central Hospital in the capital Lilongwe on Wednesday morning.The vaccines were the remainder of 102,000 doses that arrived in Malawi on March 26 with just 18 days until they expired on April 13, according to Health Secretary Charles Mwansambo.All other doses of the shipment, donated by the African Union, were successfully administered, he said.Malawi’s burning of the vaccines defies calls not to do so by the World Health Organization and the Africa Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Last month those organizations urged African countries not to destroy Covid-19 vaccines that passed their expiration dates, saying they were still safe to use.But the calls came too late for Malawi, a small southern African country of about 20 million people, ministry of health spokesman Joshua Malango told The Associated Press.“We had stopped observation of proper storage mechanisms and the vaccines would have still been damaged in one way or the other,” he said.The destruction of the vaccines was witnessed by several top officials from the auditor-general’s office, the treasury, and the anti-corruption bureau "in order to enhance transparency,” health official Mwansambo said.Malawi will still have adequate stocks of Covid-19 vaccines in both public and private health facilities, he said. Does Malawi expect deliveries of any more vaccines.Malawi's got its first consignment of 360,000 AstraZeneca doses in early March from the UN-backed COVAX initiative which is providing vaccines to low- and middle-income countries. The country received another batch of 50,000 AstraZeneca doses from the Indian government. With the AU donation, Malawi had a total of 512,000 AstraZeneca doses.So far 212,615 doses have been given in Malawi. 34,216 confirmed cases, including 1,153 deaths, according to the Africa CDC.Currently, the country is seeing a decrease in the disease, with the 7-day rolling average of daily new cases in Malawi dropping from 0.07 new cases per 100,000 people on May 4 to 0.04 new cases per 100,000 people on May 18. Official deaths from Covid-19 are also declining, according to statistics from Johns Hopkins University.Malawi, like many other African countries, has relied on the AstraZeneca vaccine that has been distributed by COVAX and the African Union. But now supplies of the vaccine have become more scarce because India, the main supplier of vaccines to COVAX, has stopped exports until it has adequately vaccinated large numbers of its population of 1.4 billion people.The Serum Institute of India says it hopes to start delivering coronavirus vaccines to COVAX and to other countries by the end of the year. The delay will significantly set back global efforts to immunize people against Covid-19. India’s Serum Institute is the world’s biggest vaccine-maker. The company said in March that it was postponing all exports of coronavirus vaccines to deal with the explosive surge of cases on the subcontinent. At the time, the World Health Organization said it expected Covid-19 vaccine deliveries from India to resume by June and the interruption would affect about 90 million doses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/malawi-burns-20-000-astrazeneca-vaccine-doses-that-expired-101621421903890.html
19-05-2021||World||Nepal, Bangladesh scramble to secure Covid-19 vaccines as India curbs exports||Nepal and Bangladesh are making frantic diplomatic efforts to secure Covid-19 vaccines to prop up their faltering inoculation drives as their stocks run out and supply prospects have become clouded by a prolonged Indian curb on vaccine exports.Reuters reported on Tuesday that India was unlikely to resume major exports of Covid-19 vaccines until October at the earliest as it diverts shots for domestic use, a longer-than-expected delay set to worsen a shortage of supplies coming through the COVAX global vaccine sharing scheme, designed to help low-income countries.Bangladesh said it urgently needed 1.6 million doses of AstraZeneca Plc's Covid-19 vaccine to provide second doses and it had approached several countries for help, including the United States and Canada."Bangladesh foreign minister urged the Canadian High Commissioner to pursue with his government so that Bangladesh receives at least 2 million doses of AstraZeneca vaccine from Canada on an emergency basis," the foreign ministry said in a statement.The ministry said its diplomats were also hoping to secure 4 million doses of the AstraZeneca vaccine from the United States, which plans to share up to 60 million doses of the vaccine.Bangladesh has an agreement with the Serum Institute of India (SII), which manufactures the AstraZeneca shot, for 30 million doses, but has received only 7 million.Bangladesh has also turned to China and Russia for supplies of China's Sinopharm and the Russian Sputnik V vaccines after India curbed vaccine exports in April.Bangladesh has been relying on the AstraZeneca vaccine but only 2% of its 170 million people are fully vaccinated.'BACK-DOOR DIPLOMACY'Nepal, which started its vaccination drive in January with 2.35 million doses of the AstraZeneca shot provided by India and COVAX, also said it has no stocks and more than 1.55 million people were waiting for their second dose."People above 65 and others in risk groups who received their first shots of the Indian vaccine are waiting for their second," Jhalak Gautam, head of the vaccine section of the Ministry of Health and Population, told Reuters."It's already overdue," he said, adding the SII had yet to deliver one million shots that Nepal bought.The SII said on Tuesday it hoped to start supplying COVAX and delivering to other countries by the end of the year.Nepal had asked Indian authorities for an early delivery of more shots, said Sewa Lamal, a spokesman for Nepal's Ministry of Foreign Affairs."Despite their own problems, we hope India can consider emergency requirements," she told Reuters.India's foreign ministry did not comment on Nepal's request.The head of the U.N. children's fund, which is helping supply Covid-19 vaccines through COVAX, on Monday asked G7 countries to donate supplies to COVAX as an emergency measure to address the severe shortfall caused by disruption to India's exports."There's a lot of back-door diplomacy happening to get extra doses from USA, EU and other 'rich' countries to make up for the backlog created by India," a source at UNICEF told Reuters.The source said a lot of efforts were underway to resolve the supply disruptions and it could be too early to gauge the long-term impact of India's export curbs.But the short-term impact of the reduced supply was already pronounced. UNICEF said this week that COVAX would deliver its 65 millionth vaccine dose this week, far behind its original target of 170 million.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/nepal-bangladesh-scramble-to-secure-covid-19-vaccines-as-india-curbs-exports-101621418975800.html
19-05-2021||World||Double mutant Covid variant may be spreading in Britain less quickly than feared initially||The Covid-19 variant first identified in India may be spreading less quickly than first feared, a leading British epidemiologist said on Wednesday, but vaccines might be less effective at limiting its spread.Prime Minister Boris Johnson on Friday warned that the emergence of the B.1.617.2 variant might derail his plans to lift England's lockdown fully on June 21 but said that it all depended on the degree to which it spread."There's ... a glimmer of hope from the recent data that, whilst this variant does still appear to have a significant growth advantage, the magnitude of that advantage seems to have dropped a little bit with the most recent data," Neil Ferguson, an epidemiologist at Imperial College London, told BBC radio, adding more data was needed.Ferguson, a member of the government's Scientific Advisory Group for Emergencies (SAGE), said the initial rapid growth of B.1.617.2 had been among people who had travelled and who had a higher chance of living in multi-generational households or in deprived areas, and the ease of transmission might not be replicated in other settings.Graham Medley, also a member of SAGE and a professor of disease modelling at the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, said that while the variant was growing quickly in some places, "we haven't yet seen it take off and grow rapidly everywhere else"."One of the key things we'll be looking for in the coming weeks will be: how far does it spread outside of those areas," he told Reuters.Ferguson added that though there was a "good deal of confidence" that vaccines will protect against severe disease from the variant, B.1.617.2 might be able to spread more easily among vaccinated people."There's some hints in the data there's reduced vaccine efficacy against infection, against transmission," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/double-mutant-covid-variant-may-be-spreading-in-britain-less-quickly-than-feared-initially-101621417381397.html
19-05-2021||World||'Children’s cries filling street': Israeli airstrikes kills 6 in Gaza||Israeli airstrikes killed at least six people across the Gaza Strip and destroyed the home of an extended family early Wednesday. Despite growing international pressure for a cease-fire, the military said it widened its strikes on militant targets in the Palestinian territory’s south to blunt continuing rocket fire from Hamas.Residents surveyed the piles of bricks, concrete and other debris that had once been the home of 40 members of al-Astal family. They said a warning missile struck the building in the southern Gaza town of Khan Younis five minutes before the airstrike, allowing everyone to escape.Ahmed al-Astal, a university professor, described a scene of panic before the airstrike hit, with men, women and children racing out of the building. Some of the women didn't even have time to cover their hair with Muslim headscarves, he said.“We had just gotten down to the street, breathless, when the devastating bombardment came,” he said. “They left nothing but destruction, the children’s cries filling the street. ... This is happening, and there is no one to help us. We ask God to help us.”The Israeli military said it struck militant targets around the towns of Khan Younis and Rafah, with 52 aircraft hitting 40 underground targets. Gaza’s Health Ministry said a woman was killed and eight people were wounded in those strikes.Hamas-run Al-Aqsa radio said one of its reporters was killed in an airstrike in Gaza City. Among the six killed Wednesday were also two people who died when warning missiles crashed into their apartment.The latest strikes came as diplomatic efforts aimed at a cease-fire gathered strength and Gaza’s infrastructure, already weakened by a 14-year blockade, rapidly deteriorated. Medical supplies, water and fuel for electricity are running low in territory, on which Israel and Egypt imposed the blockade after the Islamic militant group Hamas seized power in 2007.The Biden administration was privately encouraging Israel to wind down its bombardment of Gaza. Egyptian negotiators also were working to halt the fighting, and while they have not made progress with Israel, they were optimistic international pressure would force it to the table. Officials discussed the sensitive diplomacy on condition of anonymity.The fighting began May 10 when Hamas fired long-range rockets toward Jerusalem after days of clashes between Palestinian protesters and Israeli police at the Al-Aqsa Mosque compound, a flashpoint site sacred to Jews and Muslims. Heavy-handed police tactics at the compound and the threatened eviction of dozens of Palestinian families by Jewish settlers had inflamed tensions.At least 219 Palestinians have been killed in airstrikes, including 63 children and 36 women, with 1,530 people wounded, according to the Gaza Health Ministry, which does not break the numbers down into fighters and civilians. Hamas and Islamic Jihad say at least 20 of their fighters have been killed, while Israel says the number is at least 130. Some 58,000 Palestinians have fled their homes.Twelve people in Israel, including a 5-year-old boy and a soldier, have been killed in rocket attacks.The Israeli military has launched hundreds of airstrikes it says are targeting Hamas’ militant infrastructure, while Palestinian militants have fired more than 3,700 rockets at Israel, with hundreds falling short and most of the rest intercepted. The rockets have reached a number of Israeli cities, including Tel Aviv, and have brought life to a standstill in areas near Gaza.Israeli attacks have damaged at least 18 hospitals and clinics and destroyed one health facility, the World Health Organization said. Nearly half of all essential drugs have run out.The Gaza Health Ministry said it had salvaged coronavirus vaccines after shrapnel from an Israeli airstrike damaged the territory's only testing facility, which also administered hundreds of vaccines. The operations were relocated to another clinic.The WHO said the bombing of key roads, including those leading to the main Shifa Hospital, has hindered ambulances and supply vehicles in Gaza, which was already struggling to cope with a coronavirus outbreak.Among the buildings leveled by Israeli airstrikes was one housing The Associated Press' Gaza office and those of other media outlets.Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu alleged that Hamas military intelligence was operating in the building. Secretary of State Antony Blinken said Tuesday that Israel had given the U.S. information about the bombing, without elaborating.The AP has called for an independent investigation of the attack. The news organization's president, Gary Pruitt, has said the AP had no indication Hamas was present in the building and that “this is something we check as best we can.”The fighting — the worst since a 2014 war between Israel and Hamas — has ignited protests around the world and inspired Palestinians in Israel and the occupied territories to call a general strike Tuesday. It was a rare collective action that spanned boundaries central to decades of failed peace efforts. Israel captured the West Bank, east Jerusalem and Gaza in the 1967 Mideast war, territories the Palestinians want for their future state.Although the strike was peaceful in many places, with shops in east Jerusalem’s usually bustling Old City markets shuttered, violence erupted in the occupied West Bank.Hundreds of Palestinians burned tires in Ramallah, where the Palestinian Authority is headquartered, and hurled stones at an Israeli military checkpoint. Three protesters were killed and more than 140 wounded in clashes with Israeli troops in several cities, according to the Palestinian Health Ministry. The Israeli army said two soldiers were wounded in Ramallah by gunshots to the leg.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/childrens-cries-filling-street-israeli-airstrikes-kills-6-in-gaza-101621417382830.html
19-05-2021||World||'Boycott China's 2022 Olympics': Pelosi calls on US and world leaders||US House of Representatives Speaker Nancy Pelosi on Tuesday called for a US diplomatic boycott of the 2022 Winter Olympics in Beijing, criticizing China for human rights abuses and saying global leaders who attend would lose their moral authority.A Chinese foreign ministry spokesman said Pelosi's remarks were "full of lies" and that human rights were developing vigorously in China.US lawmakers have been increasingly vocal about an Olympic boycott or venue change, and have lashed out at American corporations, arguing their silence about what the State Department has deemed a genocide of Uyghurs and other ethnic minorities in China was abetting the Chinese government.Pelosi, a Democrat, told a bipartisan congressional hearing on the issue that heads of state around the world should shun the Games, scheduled for February."What I propose - and join those who are proposing - is a diplomatic boycott," Pelosi said, in which "lead countries of the world withhold their attendance at the Olympics.""Let's not honor the Chinese government by having heads of state go to China," she added."For heads of state to go to China in light of a genocide that is ongoing - while you're sitting there in your seat - really begs the question, what moral authority do you have to speak again about human rights any place in the world?" she said.An independent United Nations panel said in 2018 it had received credible reports that at least 1 million Uyghurs and other Muslims had been held in camps in China's Xinjiang region. Beijing describes them as vocational training centers to stamp out extremism, and strongly rejects accusations of abuse and genocide.Chinese foreign ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian told a regular news briefing in Beijing that Pelosi's remarks were "full of lies and false information," and the United States was afraid visiting countries would see China's "vigorous development of human rights".In Washington, Chinese Embassy spokesman Liu Pengyu earlier told Reuters that U.S. attempts to interfere in China's domestic affairs over the Olympics were doomed to fail."I wonder what makes some US politicians think they actually have the so-called moral authority? On human rights issues, they are in no position, either historically or currently, to make wanton groundless criticism against China," Liu said.'HELD TO ACCOUNT'Republican Congressman Chris Smith, who led the hearing, said corporate sponsors should be called to testify before Congress and be "held to account"."Big business wants to make lots of money, and it doesn't seem to matter what cruelty - even genocide - that the host nation commits," Smith said.Democratic Congressman Jim McGovern added the Games should be postponed to give the International Olympic Committee (IOC) time to "relocate to a country whose government is not committing atrocities.""If we can postpone an Olympics by a year for a pandemic, we can surely postpone the Olympics for a year for a genocide," McGovern said, referring to the decision by Japan and the IOC to delay the 2020 Summer Games in Tokyo due to Covid-19.Demands for some form of boycott of the Beijing Games are growing.Last month, Republican Senator Mitt Romney introduced an amendment to broader legislation to counter China that would implement a U.S. diplomatic boycott.And a coalition of human rights activists on Tuesday called for athletes to boycott the Games and put pressure on the IOC.US President Joe Biden's administration has said it hopes to develop a joint approach with allies to participation in Beijing's Olympics, but Secretary of State Antony Blinken has repeatedly said the issue has not yet been broached in discussions.Asked about Pelosi's comments, a senior US administration official told Reuters the administration's position on the 2022 Olympics had not changed.Biden, a Democrat, has said China is America's strategic competitor, and has vowed to not let the country surpass the United States as a world leader on his watch.Proponents of Americans competing in Beijing's Olympics say it would be unfair to punish athletes, and the Games would provide a platform for the United States, which has one of the highest Winter Olympic medal counts, to show its vitality on the global stage.Sarah Hirshland, the chief executive officer of the US Olympic and Paralympic Committee, said in a written statement the committee was concerned about the "oppression of the Uyghur population," but barring US athletes from the Games was "certainly not the answer.""Past Olympic boycotts have failed to achieve political ends," she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/boycott-china-s-2022-olympics-pelosi-calls-on-us-and-world-leaders-101621416692967.html
19-05-2021||World||No longer silent, Gulf Arab citizens express anger at Israel||The ongoing bloodshed in the Gaza Strip has unleashed a chorus of voices across Gulf Arab states that are fiercely critical of Israel and emphatically supportive of Palestinians.The vocal opposition to Israel, expressed in street protests, on social media and in newspaper columns, comes just months after pacts were signed to establish ties with Israel — and complicates government efforts to rally Arab citizens around full-throttle acceptance of the deals.Analysts said the conflict will also set back Israeli efforts to secure more normalization deals with other Arab states, like Saudi Arabia.The criticism has not only put Arab governments that signed the diplomatic accords with Israel in a difficult position with their citizens, it also affirms that the Palestinian cause continues to resonate deeply with people across the Middle East.“No matter what your national priorities are at the moment or regional priorities are at the moment, when stuff like this happens, the Palestinian issue comes back and hits you,” Emirati political analyst Abdulkhaleq Abdulla said.Still, the open calls for Palestinian rights and condemnation of Israel voiced by countless Gulf Arab citizens have largely mirrored official statements from their governments, all of which have condemned the violence in some form. Some have gone further, and Abdulla said he’d hoped the United Arab Emirates' most recent statement calling “on all parties” to cease fighting had been bolder and named Israel as the aggressor.In speaking out, Gulf citizens are challenging the official narratives around normalization with Israel.In Bahrain, civil society groups signed a letter urging the government to expel the Israeli ambassador. In Kuwait, protesters held two rallies and are demanding permission to hold more. In Qatar, the government allowed hundreds to protest over the weekend as Hamas’ top leader delivered a speech. In the UAE, some have openly donned the black-and-white checkered Palestinian keffiyeh on Instagram while others have tweeted under hashtags supportive of Palestinians.Last year, the UAE became the first Arab country in over two decades to establish ties with Israel, after Egypt and Jordan in 1979 and 1994, respectively. It was a brazen move that bypassed the Palestinians, who slammed it as treason and a stab in the back.The UAE's move paved the way for three other countries — Bahrain, Sudan and Morocco — to announce similar pacts with Israel in rapid succession.Immediately after the UAE formalized ties with Israel in September, a tsunami of state propaganda framed it as a new era of peace, religious tolerance and security for the region.Among the general Emirati public, there was little to no visible pushback from citizens when their government announced ties with Israel. Fiery nationalistic figures on Twitter with tens of thousands of followers aggressively cheered the pact, and throughout the current conflict have both defended ties with Israel and made posts mocking Palestinian protesters.But unlike in Western democracies, a lack of protest in the Gulf does not mean acceptance. In the UAE, political parties are banned and political expression is heavily suppressed.“The show of support that we saw during the early days of normalization, I think it represents something deeper in Emirati society ... and that is that the vast majority support their government,” Abdulla said. “It was a show of support for the government rather than a show of support for ‘normalization’ as such.”Mira Al-Hussein, an Emirati PhD candidate at Cambridge University, said Emiratis feel taken care of and valued by their government, which provides citizens with strong social safety nets.“But that doesn’t mean we feel comfortable by what’s happening around us,” she said.She changed her Twitter handle in support of Palestinians since the fighting broke out, and has used the platform to slam Israel's policies and highlight the atrocities of the war.“You don’t sign papers and expect a human catastrophe to go away,” she said of the accord with Israel.Over the years, there have been changes to school curricula across Gulf Arab states to replace pan-Arab and pan-Islamic ideals with a nationalistic identity that unites people around the flag.The UAE has been trying to mold public discourse around nationalism and a rejection of youth or Islamic movements, said Kristin Smith Diwan, a scholar at the Arab Gulf States Institute in Washington.“I think the relation with Israel was seen as a way to even cement that further. I don’t know how that’s going to work now,” she said.Al-Hussein said her younger brother, who is in his 20's, never studied the Arab-Israeli conflict in school. But he “just learned about it today from social media," she said.For millions of Arabs, social media is the only space where limited freedom of expression is possible. Since the war began, users have been flooded by images of dead Palestinian children being pulled from the rubble of Israeli airstrikes in Gaza.These platforms have also been awash with images of Israeli security forces firing stun grenades and tear gas at worshippers and protesters in Al-Aqsa mosque in Jerusalem, of Palestinian families fighting eviction from their homes and of deadly protests across the occupied West Bank.At least 217 Palestinians have been killed in Gaza, including 61 children and 36 women. More than 1,440 people have been wounded. Twelve people in Israel, including a young boy and a soldier, have been killed in Hamas rocket attacks.Bader al-Saif, a Kuwait University professor, said “the sheer un-proportionality” of the conflict has pushed many people to speak out across the Gulf.“For Israelis to feel secure, they need to feel that they are accepted,” al-Saif said. “That feeling of acceptance cannot be complete without them dealing with the Palestinian issue.”U.K.-based Saudi scholar Madawi Al-Rasheed, a fierce critic of the Saudi government, said despite the kingdom's widespread crackdown on activists — most of whom are steadfast supporters of Palestinian rights — the outrage expressed by many online reveals the gap between the cautious push by the Saudi leadership to inch closer to Israel and public sentiment in the streets.“It shows that despite several years of adopting a normalization discourse in official Saudi media, the pulse of the people is actually not diverted from the Palestinian cause,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/no-longer-silent-gulf-arab-citizens-express-anger-at-israel-101621413516014.html
19-05-2021||World||'No one left but you': Bereaved Gaza father clutches wounded baby boy rescued from his dead mother's arms||Inside a Gaza hospital, Mohammad al-Hadidi cradled his baby boy Omar -- his only surviving child after Israeli air strikes killed his wife and four other sons in the night."I have no one left in the world but you," the 37-year-old father said.After the strikes, rescue workers pulled the five-month-old from the arms of his dead mother early Saturday, one of his tiny legs fractured in three places.All his other children -- Suhayb, 13, Yahya, 11, Abderrahman, 8, and Osama, 6 -- perished in the bombing along with their mother Maha Abu Hattab, 36."They've gone to find God, we don't want to stay around here for much longer," the bereaved father said, sobbing."We will meet them soon, you and I. Oh God, let it not be too long."Sitting on the edge of a hospital bed, Hadidi carefully kissed his child's cheek.In his arms, Omar rested peacefully, his right leg poking out of his romper in a plaster cast.Under a crown of tiny brown curls, his eyelids were bruised dark and swollen, and his face covered in scratches.- 'Begged to stay the night' -Saturday's strikes hit at the conclusion of Eid al-Fitr, usually a time of joy when Muslim families gather to mark the end of the holy fasting month of Ramadan.On Friday, Omar's mother had taken him and his brothers to visit their cousins nearby in the Shati refugee camp outside Gaza City where they all lived."The kids put on their Eid clothes, took their toys and headed off to their uncle's house to celebrate," Hadidi said."They called in the evening to beg to stay the night and I said OK."Hadidi then paused to gather himself as he recalled what would become a fateful night.I slept "at home alone... (and) woke up suddenly to the sound of bombing," he said.Soon a neighbour called to say an Israeli missile had hit his brother-in-law's home."I hurried over as fast as I could, but when I got there the home was rubble, and rescue workers were pulling out bodies."His sister-in-law and four of her children were also among the dead.A video widely shared on social media shows Hadidi clutching his son to his chest, overwhelmed that he had survived.- 'God was preparing us' -Hadidi gently touched his son's face."All my other sons breastfed, except for Omar who refused from day one," he said wistfully."God was preparing us and we had no idea."Israeli air raids have killed 200 people including 59 children in the besieged coastal enclave since last Monday.On the Israeli side, the rockets of Palestinian armed groups have killed 10 people.Hadidi accused Israel of deliberately targeting children."What have they done to deserve being bombed without any warning to evacuate the home?"Israel claims it is targeting armed militants, including from the Islamist Hamas group running the Gaza Strip.But human rights groups have repeatedly condemned strikes that have killed women and children in the overcrowded territory of some 2 million inhabitants.The Gaza-based Mezan Centre for Human Rights says 341 residential units have been damaged in the aerial bombardment.Even with air strikes ongoing, Hadidi said he was waiting for his baby to be declared well enough for him to take him home."I will care for him and bring him up on my own," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/no-one-left-but-you-bereaved-gaza-father-clutches-wounded-baby-boy-rescued-from-his-dead-mother-s-arms-101621412457724.html
19-05-2021||World||Indigenous community in Canadian province donates for India’s Covid fight||More assistance related to the coronavirus crisis in India is flowing from Canada, including a donation from an indigenous community in the western province of Manitoba.The Manitoba Metis Federation, which is the government of the indigenous people there, has announced a donation of 50,000 Canadian dollars ( ₹3,025,544 approx) to help India during the crisis. Federation president David Chartrand said, “People are dying from lack of oxygen in India. Our hearts go out to all the families who have lost loved ones. The Indo-Canadian community in our province has a well-deserved reputation for generosity towards their neighbours. Now, that their families and friends in India need our help, it’s our chance to return the favour.”Chartrand pointed to the scale of the devastation in India as he said, “Over 270,000 people have died from Covid-19 in India. That is enough to wipe out the entire Métis population in Manitoba twice over.”Chartrand made the pledge during an online ‘Oxygen for India’ fundraiser organised by the Indo-Canada Chamber of Commerce or ICCC on Sunday.Chartrand said that while the Metis were not a rich people, it was in their “DNA as Métis people that if we see our neighbours struggle, we need to help”.“Like the Métis, people in India highly value and respect their elders and seniors, who we know are extremely vulnerable to Covid-19. We need to help protect their families and communities. If you can, I encourage all Métis citizens, and indeed all Canadians, to donate to Oxygen for India,” he added.Meanwhile, the province of Ontario which has already despatched 3,000 ventilators to India, will send another 2,000. Premier Dough Ford said he had “directed our folks to ship another 2,000 (ventilators)” and expected that a “whole planeload” with supplies will arrive in India soon. Ford also made the announcement at the ICCC fundraiser.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/indigenous-community-in-canadian-province-donates-for-india-s-covid-fight-101621402456822.html
19-05-2021||World||How Mumbai’s officials made their city more Covid-ready than Delhi||woAt midnight on April 17, as a deadly new wave of the coronavirus overwhelmed India, Mumbai’s Municipal Commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal learned that six hospitals in his city would run out of oxygen within hours -- putting the lives of 168 patients at risk.Amid the ensuing scramble, the patients were rushed to the temporary hospitals Chahal’s team had set up during the city’s first wave in 2020. He hadn’t dismantled the facilities even when cases dipped. Unlike most Indian hospitals that relied on cylinders, they had been equipped with pipes that supplied oxygen directly to patients’ beds. All 168 survived.That night -- which Chahal describes as the scariest he’s ever had -- offers a look at tactics India’s financial capital used to quell its outbreak faster, and with fewer casualties, than other parts of the country. Mumbai has reported 2,784 deaths since the second wave began on March 1, around a fourth of the 10,595 in capital New Delhi. Even India’s Supreme Court has suggested that aspects of Mumbai’s model could be adopted in other parts of the nation like New Delhi.By contrast, the record number of daily deaths India continues to report, along with the collapse of the health system in parts of the country, have highlighted broad shortfalls in governance and public planning nationally. The country reported an unprecedented 4,529 deaths on Wednesday.Chahal attributes the city’s successes partly to a decentralized system his team set up during the first wave, which included neighborhood war rooms to manage cases by locality. He’s also made vast changes to the way the city sourced and used its medical oxygen, creating emergency stocks and tracking systems for tankers. So, even as families around India desperately pleaded for supplies on social media, Mumbai’s patients reported fewer problems.With a population of 16 million spread across glistening skyscrapers, apartment complexes and sprawling slums, Mumbai is the world’s second-most densely packed city, according to data from the United Nations. About 32,000 people are crammed in per square kilometer. That makes lessons from India’s financial capital particularly valuable as fears grow about outbreaks in other crowded places from Bangkok to Kathmandu.“I knew it was a long drawn war; and I knew only systems can win the wars -- individuals can’t,” Chahal said in an interview via Zoom. “Devising systems and making them run on auto pilot is key to the Mumbai model.”As of May 11, Mumbai had almost half the number of active virus cases as capital New Delhi. Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain and Principal Secretary of Health Ashish Chandra Verma didn’t reply to calls seeking comment.Still, the risks to Mumbai are far from over. The city has recorded 688,696 cases since the pandemic began, adding 1,544 on May 16. Chahal is preparing for a third wave by setting up jumbo pediatric hospitals because public health experts have warned his team that more children might be infected in the next surge.Managing the trajectory of the virus in Mumbai is crucial given the potential human toll of a runaway epidemic. And as India’s financial capital, the city is also central to the nation’s already battered economy.Mumbai houses the nation’s main stock exchange. It’s where large multinationals like Unilever Plc and global financial giants from Citigroup Inc. to KKR & Co. have their Indian headquarters. It’s home to the nation’s central bank and India’s mammoth film industry -- Bollywood.Indian financial assets have decoupled from the national covid situation. The rupee is up 1.5%, turning into Asia’s best-performing currency this month amid hopes of faster inoculations in coming months. The benchmark stock index has also climbed about 3% in May.Chahal, 55, says he built up administrative skills growing up in a military family: His father was an officer in the Indian army. Over the past decades, he’s held a string of bureaucratic positions, including working on a proposal to remodel Dharavi and helming an overhaul of Maharashtra state’s irrigation systems.He had to hit the ground running last May, when Maharashtra’s chief minister Uddhav Thackeray asked him to head the municipal corporation at the height of Mumbai’s first wave. Bodies were piling up in mortuaries and the city’s densest slum, Dharavi, was battling a fast growing coronavirus crisis.Lessons from last year taught him the importance of a local approach and getting patients quickly isolated, a model he calls “Chase the Virus.” His team went door to door in Dharavi looking for people with symptoms and eventually isolating 150,000 people from the slum, a move that stopped the chain of infection. At the time, Chahal also abolished the central hub handling the city’s crisis and created local war rooms in each of the 24 administrative divisions -- wards or neighborhoods -- of the city.That localized approach helped as affluent neighborhoods were worse hit during the second wave. The local war rooms got test reports and reduced the spread the of infection by pointing patients to the nearest available hospital beds. The city administration negotiated with private hospitals to allocate beds for Covid patients at government decided rates.“We set up an excellent public private partnership between hospitals which is still today not visible in rest of the country,” Chahal said.When oxygen was running out during the second wave, Chahal started to source oxygen from nearby states. Mumbai’s civic authorities also banned hospitals from adding beds beyond their oxygen storage capacity, dodging the shortages that rocked other cities.Vaccinations“Wiser after our experience of last year, when the second wave hit with its dangerous mutations, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation quickly scaled up its infrastructure including beds, equipments and doctors,” said Dr. Hetal Marfatia, professor and head of the ear, nose and throat department at Mumbai’s KEM Hospital. This time round most hospital beds had readily available oxygen lines, she said.At times, Chahal said he’s had to simply find innovative ways to use limited resources. When ambulances were in short supply, he called the city’s election commission and converted the 800 cars they sent over into ambulances by putting up partitions between the driver and passenger.Still, Mumbai has been the epicenter of the virus twice, and local doctors warn of the continued risks. Chahal’s team has also drawn criticism for what some have described as a chaotic approach to vaccinations.“Though our cases graph has come down now, I would say this is not the end,” said Dr. Vikas Oswal, a pulmonologist practicing in clinics in Dharavi and other parts of Mumbai. “We are expecting a rise in cases within two weeks now, as vaccination centers are over flooded. They are not being managed properly.”Chahal acknowledges some of the risks, saying he’s preparing more jumbo hospitals with 6,500 added beds, and he’s attempting to directly import vaccines from international companies.Mumbai has received three bids to import Russia’s Sputnik vaccines, he told Bloomberg TV in an interview Wednesday, adding that the city will reduce its positivity rate to 2% by the end of May. More than 20% of India’s tests are yielding positive results, far higher than the less-than-5% the World Health Organization considers as an indicator that the epidemic is under control.“More we vaccinate, the greater are chances that we reduce the threat of the next wave,” Chahal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/how-mumbai-s-city-officials-made-their-city-more-covid-ready-than-delhi-101621400739587.html
19-05-2021||World||Over 25,000 Covid-19 fatalities in Canada||Canada crossed the grim mark of 25,000 Covid-19 fatalities on Tuesday. But, that unfortunate milestone was reached as health authorities are increasingly positive of a return to a semblance of normalcy over the summer and into autumn.Canada has now recorded 25,018 deaths from Covid-19. The first death was reported on March 9 last year. But with the third wave of the pandemic waning in the country, and vaccinations ongoing, there may be room for optimism.This was echoed by Prime Minister Justin Trudeau during a media interaction that “this summer once cases are low and at least 75% of people have had one dose and 20% had a second, you can look forward to outdoor things”, including sharing meals at patios of restaurants, hiking and camping. The fall may be better, as he said “once three-quarters of eligible Canadians are fully vaccinated we’ll be able to do more of the indoor things we missed whether that’s watching sports in person or a dinner party at a restaurant”.Vaccine availability is easing in the country, about 55% of its approximately 37 million population has had at least one jab of the coronavirus inoculation, including about 4% with both doses.In a statement, Canada’s chief public health officer Dr Theresa Tam was also positive as she said Canada was “making steady progress, with a 25% decrease in reported active cases since the peak of the 3rd wave in mid-April”. However, she warned with regard to relaxation of restrictions: “We’re not there yet, but I am really hopeful because of how fast some of the vaccines are going in the arms.”More demographic groups are now eligible for vaccinations as the National Advisory Committee on Immunization or NACI has now recommended that the complete two-dose regimen of the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine can be given to those aged between 12 and 18.Health authorities have also said that those who received a jab of the AstraZeneca vaccine as their first dose could have the option of choosing a different vaccine for their second.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/over-25-000-covid-19-fatalities-in-canada-101621401018164.html
19-05-2021||World||US Congress passes Bill to fight hate crime after Asian-American attacks||The U.S. House passed by a wide bipartisan margin legislation to combat hate crimes across the country, a measure sparked by a sharp rise in attacks against Asian-Americans and Pacific Islanders since the coronavirus pandemic began.The 364-62 vote comes just weeks after the Senate passed the same legislation and sends it to President Joe Biden, who called for speedy action after March’s shootings by a white gunman at three Atlanta-area spas that left eight people dead. The victims included six women of Asian descent.While the bill bolsters resources for addressing hate crimes more broadly, supporters said it will send a clear message to the Asian American community that steps are being taken to curb an alarming increase in assaults and threats.“Those of Asian descent have been blamed and scapegoated for the outbreak of Covid-19, and as a result Asian Americans have been beaten, slashed, spat on and even set on fire,” Representative Grace Meng, a New York Democrat and lead sponsor of the bill, said. “The Asian American community is exhausted from being forced to endure this rise in bigotry and racist attacks.”House Speaker Nancy Pelosi said she has “seen the pain” in her own district that includes San Francisco and its expansive Asian American community. She called it an “epidemic” that is “a challenge to the conscience of our country which demands bold, aggressive action.”Biden plans to sign the legislation later this week, press secretary Jen Psaki said on Twitter.The legislation requires the Justice Department to conduct a review of hate crimes, and to provide guidance to state and local governments to enable them to establish online reporting of hate crimes and expand public education campaigns to raise awareness of such assaults. It also provides grants for states to establish state-wide hate crimes reporting hotlines and improve their training to better identify and report them.Backers of the bill cited the language of former President Donald Trump and some of his allies, who routinely called Covid-19 the “Chinese virus” or the “Wuhan Virus” because of its origins, for inflaming prejudice.Separately, the House will vote Wednesday on a non-binding resolution that condemns the March 16 Atlanta-area shootings and acts of violence against Asian Americans. The resolution, led by Representative Judy Chu, a California Democrat, condemns the “heinous and inexcusable acts of gun violence” that sparked the shootings. It also takes on some of the rhetoric used by the former president and his allies, calling it the cause of some acts of harassment and violence.An estimated 3,800 hate crime incidents against people of Asian descent were recorded between March 19, 2020 -- around when lock downs started -- and Feb. 28, 2021, according to the tracking initiative Stop AAPI Hate. Most were verbal harassment and shunning, but 11% of them were physical assaults.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-congress-passes-bill-to-fight-hate-crime-after-asian-american-attacks-101621390958001.html
19-05-2021||World||AstraZeneca vaccine followed by Pfizer dose 'highly' safe, effective: Study||A Spanish study on mixing Covid-19 vaccines has found that giving a dose of Pfizer's drug to people who already received a first shot of AstraZeneca vaccine is highly safe and effective, preliminary results showed on Tuesday.The Combivacs study, run by Spain's state-backed Carlos III Health Institute, found the presence of IgG antibodies in the bloodstream was between 30 and 40 times higher in people who got the follow-up Pfizer shot than in a control group who only received one AstraZeneca dose.Meanwhile, the presence of neutralising antibodies rose sevenfold after a Pfizer dose, significantly more than the doubling effect observed after a second AstraZeneca shot.Around 670 volunteers between the ages of 18-59 who had already received a first dose of AstraZeneca's vaccine participated in the study, with some 450 given a Pfizer dose.Just 1.7% of the participants reported severe side effects, which were limited to headaches, muscle pain and general malaise, said Dr Magdalena Campins, one of the study's leaders."These are not symptoms that can be considered serious," she said.In a UK "mix-and-match" study, first findings recently showed that people vaccinated with a shot of Pfizer's vaccine followed by a dose of AstraZeneca's, or vice versa, were more likely to report mild or moderate symptoms such as headaches or chills than if they received two of the same type. Data on immune responses are expected in the coming months.Spain embarked on the study to determine how best to proceed after limiting AstraZeneca's shot to people aged over 60 due to concerns about blood clotting in younger people.That restriction caused widespread uncertainty and meant some younger people who had already received a first dose have been excluded from getting a second."Today's results support the possibility of vaccinating patients who have received the first dose from AstraZeneca, but the decision is not up to the investigators of this study," said Jesus Antonio Frias, clinical director at Carlos III.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/astrazeneca-vaccine-followed-by-pfizer-dose-highly-safe-effective-study-101621397859796.html
19-05-2021||World||2,323 infected with B.1.617.2 variant: Britain||A coronavirus variant that was first detected in India has been found in 86 districts across the UK, health secretary Matt Hancock said. Authorities have identified 2,323 cases of the variant, with cases doubling in the past week in Bolton and Blackburn in England, Hancock said.With 86 local authorities confirmed to have five or more cases of the variant, Hancock said it was vital that people get vaccinated. Most people with the variant known as B.1.617.2 in areas around Bolton hadn’t received a vaccine shot, he said.At least 200 million doses of Covid vaccines have been given in the EU, according to AFP data. The milestone indicates the EU should be on track to meet its goal of fully vaccinating 70% of adults, about 255 million people, by July end.In Canada, Krista Brodie, a female armed forces veteran, was picked to lead the country’s vaccine roll-out, replacing Dany Fortin, who was removed due to charges of sexual misconduct.Australian man trapped in India dies from CovidAn Australian citizen of Indian-origin, 47-year-old Govind Kant from Sydney, died from Covid-19 on Tuesday after he had flown to India for personal matters before Australia’s flight ban was announced. Kant’s employer, Trina Solar, confirmed the death.The US is seeing its fewest number of Covid deaths since the start of the pandemic. The seven-day moving average of deaths was 545 on May 16, and “the last time our seven-day-average was this low was in March 2020,” said Rochelle Walensky, director of the US CDC.With inputs from Anirudh Bhattacharyya in Toronto||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/2323-infected-with-b-1-617-2-variant-britain-101621390942700.html
19-05-2021||World||Bombs rain on Gaza after lull; world scrambles for ceasefire||Israel bombarded Gaza with airstrikes and Palestinian militants resumed cross-border rocket fire on Tuesday after a brief overnight lull during which the UN managed to send a small fuel convoy into the enclave.Israeli leaders said they would press on, for now, with an offensive to destroy the capabilities of the armed factions Hamas and Islamic Jihad, amid fresh calls by the US and other world powers for an end to the conflict.“The fighting will not cease until we bring total and long-term quiet,” Israeli defence minister Benny Gantz said, blaming Hamas for the escalation in Israeli-Palestinian fighting. Hamas began firing rockets eight days ago in retaliation for what it said were rights abuses against Palestinians in Jerusalem.Two Thai workers were killed by a mortar barrage fired from the Gaza Strip that slammed into a plant in southern Israel, pushing the overall death toll inside Israel to 12.Palestinians in the Israeli-occupied West Bank and Israel’s 21% Arab minority staged a general strike on Tuesday in solidarity. “It allows the other side, the Jews, to realise the big impact of the Arabs,” Diaa Rabaya’a, 23, said at Damascus Gate between East Jerusalem and the Old city.Gaza medical officials say 213 Palestinians have been killed, including 61 children and 36 women. Israeli authorities say ten people have been killed in Israel, including two children.Nearly 450 buildings in the Gaza strip have been destroyed or badly damaged, including six hospitals and nine primary care health centres, the UN humanitarian agency said.More than 52,000 Palestinians have been displaced by airstrikes, the UN aid agency has said, while rights group Amnesty International said Israeli air raids on residential buildings might amount to war crimes.Israel said more than 3,450 rockets have been launched at it from Gaza, some falling short and others shot down by its Iron Dome air defences. It says its forces have killed around 130 Hamas fighters and another 30 from Islamic Jihad.EU foreign ministers called for a ceasefire, but failed to reach unanimity as Hungary, Israel’s closest ally in the bloc, declined to join the other 26 foreign ministers in calling for a truce on their video call.US defence secretary Lloyd Austin expressed his support for a de-escalation in fighting in a call with his Israeli counterpart on Tuesday, the Pentagon said.Calling Israeli PM Netanyahu on Monday, US President Joe Biden again said Israel had the right to defend itself but encouraged it to make efforts to protect civilians, the White House said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/bombs-rain-on-gaza-after-lull-world-scrambles-for-ceasefire-101621390980171.html
19-05-2021||World||Cyclone Tauktae: 4 killed in roof collapse incidents after dust storm in Karachi||At least four people were killed in roof collapse incidents after a dust storm followed by light rain hit parts of Karachi on Tuesday evening, caused due to the influence of the cyclone system in southern Pakistan's vicinity.The districts in lower Sindh including Karachi have been under the influence of cyclonic storm Tauktae, and on Monday the mercury rose to 43.5 degrees Celsius in Karachi.According to the Dawn, at least four people were killed in roof collapse incidents after a dust storm followed by light rain hit parts of Karachi on Tuesday evening after the city remained in the grips of a severe heat spell for two days.Also Read: Rapid intensity of Cyclone Tauktae takes experts by surpriseThe strong winds caused roofs to collapse in several areas, killing a man and a woman in Dabba Colony, a nine-year-old child in Shershah, and a man in Baldia No. 14, according to a Karachi Police statement, reported by Dawn.The districts in lower Sindh including Karachi have been under the influence of cyclonic storm Tauktae, and on Monday the mercury rose to 43.5 degrees Celsius in Karachi.Sardar Sarfaraz of the Meteorology department told Dawn that "the dust storm was caused due to the influence of the cyclone system being in southern Pakistan's vicinity combined with local weather conditions."He said, "Karachi could experience gusty winds again until the cyclone system is out of the region."Sarfaraz noted that the city's temperature had fallen by 7-8 degrees soon after the dust storm, saying it was likely to drop further as the weather normalises, as reported by Dawn.The official had earlier told Dawn that the storm had started dissipating and weather in lower Sindh would improve by Wednesday as the sea breeze blocked by the storm would resume."A few dust/thunderstorm-rain [spells] accompanied with gusty winds of 30-50km/h may occur in Tharparkar and Umerkot districts during next 12 hours," the advisory said, adding that hot and dry weather will continue on Tuesday (today) in Karachi, Hyderabad, Shaheed Benazirabad, Badin and Mirpurkhas districts, said Pakistan Meteorological Department, reported Dawn.According to the alert, sea conditions will remain rough till Tuesday evening and fishermen of Sindh are advised to avoid going into the deep sea. "They can resume their activities from tomorrow," it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/cyclone-tauktae-4-killed-in-roof-collapse-incidents-after-dust-storm-in-karachi-101621387740643.html
19-05-2021||World||Earthquake of 5.8 magnitude hits Nepal||An earthquake of magnitude 5.8 Richter scale struck Nepal on Wednesday morning (local time) as per the National Earthquake Monitoring and Research Center.The quake took place around 5:42 AM Nepal (Local time), 113 KM North West of Kathmandu."Epicenter of the earthquake lies at Bhulbhule of Lamjung District this morning at around 5:42 (Local Time). It has been recorded with 5.8 magnitudes," Dr Lokbijay Adhikari, Seismologist, National Earthquake Monitoring and Research Center told ANI.No loss of lives have been reported yet, further details are awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/earthquake-of-5-8-magnitude-hits-nepal-101621387379157.html
19-05-2021||World||Sudan bans travellers from India in view of Covid-19, imposes other restrictions||Sudan will restrict all travellers who have visited India within the prior two weeks, the country's health emergency committee said in a statement.India's total Covid-19 caseload topped 25 million on Tuesday, and there are concerns about the spread of a new, highly infectious B.1.617 variant, first found there.Sudan's health emergency committee also warned that total Covid-19 cases in the African country could top the 100,000 mark by mid-June if restrictions were not imposed.The country's fragile health system has been strained by the coronavirus pandemic, with patients struggling to access hospital beds, oxygen and medications.Travellers coming from Egypt and Ethiopia would be re-tested the committee said.The commission also ordered schools and universities to be closed for one month starting immediately, and restricted large social gatherings as well as mass prayers.It also set a mask mandate in markets, workplaces, and public transport.The committee reported a total of more than 34,707 cases as of May 16, however officials have said that real numbers are likely to be much higher given low rates of testing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/sudan-bans-travellers-from-india-imposes-other-covid-19-restrictions-101621382529845.html
19-05-2021||World||France proposes Israel-Gaza ceasefire resolution at UN: Govt||France has proposed a resolution with the UN Security Council, in coordination with Egypt and Jordan, calling for a ceasefire in the Israel-Gaza conflict, the president's office said late Tuesday.French President Emmanuel Macron and his Egyptian counterpart Abdel Fattah al-Sisi, who is in Paris for summits on Africa, agreed on the resolution in a video conference with Jordan's King Abdullah II, the statement said."The three countries agreed on three simple elements: The shooting must stop, the time has come for a ceasefire and the UN Security Council must take up the issue," the Elysee Palace said.France, which has been calling for a rapid ceasefire for several days, said it supports mediation led by Egypt.Also Read: India calls for end to violence in Israel, GazaMacron had on Monday underlined the importance of Egyptian mediation after talks in Paris with Sisi, a key ally and defence client of France despite activists' concerns over Cairo's rights record.The UN Security Council has failed to adopt a simple declaration on the conflict, with the United States, a staunch Israel ally, having rejected three prior statement drafts proposed by China, Norway and Tunisia which called for an end to the fighting.China's UN ambassador Zhang Jun said that during a closed-door meeting, members "heard the proposal made by our French colleague in the Council and for China, definitely, we are supportive to all effort facilitating the ending of the crisis and the coming back of peace in the Middle East."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/france-proposes-israel-gaza-ceasefire-resolution-at-un-govt-101621382488759.html
19-05-2021||World||Pelosi calls for US, world leaders to boycott China's 2022 Olympics||US House of Representatives Speaker Nancy Pelosi on Tuesday called for a US diplomatic boycott of the 2022 Winter Olympics in Beijing, criticizing China for human rights abuses and saying global leaders who attend would lose their moral authority.US lawmakers have been increasingly vocal about an Olympic boycott or venue change, and have lashed out at American corporations, arguing their silence about what the State Department has deemed a genocide of Uyghurs and other ethnic minorities in China was abetting the Chinese government.Pelosi, a Democrat, told a bipartisan congressional hearing on the issue that heads of state around the world should shun the games, scheduled for February."What I propose - and join those who are proposing - is a diplomatic boycott," Pelosi said, in which "lead countries of the world withhold their attendance at the Olympics.""Let's not honor the Chinese government by having heads of state go to China," she added."For heads of state to go to China in light of a genocide that is ongoing - while you're sitting there in your seat - really begs the question, what moral authority do you have to speak again about human rights any place in the world?" she said.An independent United Nations panel said in 2018 it had received credible reports that at least 1 million Uyghurs and other Muslims had been held in camps in China's Xinjiang region. Beijing describes them as vocational training centers to stamp out extremism, and strongly rejects accusations of abuse and genocide.Chinese Embassy spokesman Liu Pengyu told Reuters that US attempts to interfere in China's domestic affairs over the Olympics were doomed to fail."I wonder what makes some US politicians think they actually have the so-called 'moral authority'? On human rights issues, they are in no position, either historically or currently, to make wanton groundless criticism against China," Liu said.'HELD TO ACCOUNT'Republican Congressman Chris Smith, who led the hearing, said corporate sponsors should be called to testify before Congress and be "held to account"."Big business wants to make lots of money, and it doesn't seem to matter what cruelty - even genocide - that the host nation commits," Smith said.Democratic Congressman Jim McGovern added the Games should be postponed to give the International Olympic Committee time to "relocate to a country whose government is not committing atrocities.""If we can postpone an Olympics by a year for a pandemic, we can surely postpone the Olympics for a year for a genocide," McGovern said, referring to the decision by Japan and the IOC to delay the 2020 Summer Games in Tokyo due to Covid-19.Demands for some form of boycott of the Beijing Games are growing.Last month, Republican Senator Mitt Romney introduced an amendment to broader legislation to counter China that would implement a US diplomatic boycott.And a coalition of human rights activists on Tuesday called for athletes to boycott the Games and put pressure on the IOC.US President Joe Biden's administration has said it hopes to develop a joint approach with allies to participation in Beijing's Olympics, but Secretary of State Antony Blinken has repeatedly said the issue has not yet been broached in discussions.Asked about Pelosi's comments, a senior administration official told Reuters the administration's position on the 2022 Olympics had not changed.Biden, a Democrat, has said China is America's strategic competitor, and has vowed to not let the country surpass the United States as a world leader on his watch.Proponents of Americans competing in Beijing's Olympics say it would be unfair to punish athletes, and the Games would provide a platform for the United States, which has one of the highest Winter Olympic medal counts, to show its vitality on the global stage.Sarah Hirshland, the chief executive officer of the US Olympic and Paralympic Committee, said in a written statement the committee was concerned about the "oppression of the Uyghur population," but barring US athletes from the Games was "certainly not the answer.""Past Olympic boycotts have failed to achieve political ends," she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pelosi-calls-for-us-world-leaders-to-boycott-china-s-2022-olympics-101621382327272.html
19-05-2021||World||More California counties see Covid-19 case improvements||Five more California counties will move to less restrictive tiers because of improving Covid-19 conditions and no counties regressed, the state Department of Public Health said Tuesday.Orange, Santa Cruz, Santa Clara and Amador counties are moving from the orange, or moderate, tier to the yellow, or minimal, tier. Tehama County is improving from the red, substantial, tier to orange.The moves will put 13 counties in yellow, 35 in orange, 10 in red. No counties are in the purple, or substantial, tier.Santa Clara County's health officer, Dr. Sara Cody, immediately announced that new yellow tier rules will implemented Wednesday. Among the local rules being lifted are requirements that businesses maximize the number of staff who are teleworking.The improvements were announced a day after the state's health director announced that California will require people to keep wearing masks and practice social distancing indoors until June 15 — the date when Gov. Gavin Newsom has said nearly all Covid-19 restrictions will be dropped if cases remain low.More than 34.8 million vaccines have been administered in California, and the seven-day positivity rate is down to just 0.9%.During a virtual meeting of the California Travel and Tourism Commission on Tuesday, the governor noted, however, that since the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommended looser masking guidelines last week there has been a decline in vaccinations “that is creating some pause and a little bit of concern.”More than a dozen other states, including neighboring Oregon, have already followed the new CDC masking guidelines.Most of the 58 counties in California — including gigantic Los Angeles, Orange and San Diego — are heeding the state's masking schedule.Los Angeles County Supervisor Hilda Solis said Monday the county will use the extra month to fully vaccinate more people. ”More than half of our adult population remains vulnerable," she said.After becoming the epicenter for the virus in the US at the start of the year, California has experienced a tremendous decline in Covid-19 cases.Newsom, like the Biden administration, has been under pressure to ease mask restrictions as coronavirus cases decline nationwide. But the Democratic governor faces a recall election this fall driven largely by frustration with his handling of the pandemic.The tiers are based on cases, positivity rate and on vaccination figures. Newsom has indicated California will do away with the system in mid-June.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/more-california-counties-see-covid-19-case-improvements-101621371553577.html
19-05-2021||World||Biden administration removes Trump-era H-1B rule vacated by court||The Biden administration on Tuesday announced that it has removed a Trump-era rule that had sought to narrow the definition of “speciality” for qualifying for H-1B non-immigration short-term work visas in the country - doing away with one more of former president Donald Trump’s restrictive changes to the visa programme.The Trump administration had issued an order last October seeking to “narrow” the definition of speciality occupation to ensure US companies could use the visa programme to make “real offers” to “real employees” and not to hire foreigners as “low-cost replacement” for qualified Americans. A bachelor’s degree wasn’t sufficient under that rule. Instead, a bachelor’s degree in a specific field related to the job was required.The rule couldn’t be implemented, though, as it was a vacated by a court. The department of homeland security has now removed it altogether from the Code of Federal Rules.“This is one of Trump’s three big midnight regulations to remake (some would say destroy) the H-1B system,” Doug Rand, an immigration official from the Obama administration, had tweeted back in October. He added, separately, “The Biden administration continues to take a thoughtful approach to Trump-era immigration regulations, an unprecedented number of which were jammed through at the last moment. The lawsuits continue to pile up, and we may see other Trump-era H-1B rules evaporate as well.” Rand is now the co-founder of Boundless Immigration, a tech company that helps immigrants get green cards and citizenship.Speciality occupation will now go back to being what it was before October 2020. It technically means “an occupation which requires theoretical and practical application of a body of highly specialised knowledge in fields of human endeavour… and which requires the attainment of a bachelor’s degree or higher in a specific specialty, or its equivalent, as a minimum for entry into the occupation in the United States”.The US grants 85,000 H-1B visas every year under a congressionally mandated cap to American companies to hire foreign workers to make up for the shortage of qualified workers locally. More than 70% of the visas go to Indian professionals hired from India or from US schools and colleges by American companies such as Facebook, Google and Microsoft, as well as by US subsidiaries of Indian companies such as TCS, Wipro and Infosys.Trump had issued a slew of orders starting within days of taking office in January 2017 to end what he and other immigration hawks in his administration had called fraud and abuse of the H-1B visa programme.Of the many measures initiated by his administration, only two survive: ending the use of electronic lottery to select successful petitions for H-1B visas and prioritise those getting higher wages; and fixing wage levels for H-1B hires in tune with prevailing wages to prevent the programme from bringing low-wage replacement for American workers.“Both rules are problematic and there is no final decision on their fate. It is also possible the Biden administration could resurrect in some manner the part of the vacated Trump H-1B regulation that places new restrictions on work at third-party sites. But that would certainly invite legal challenges, and the two delayed rules also have lawsuits pending,” said Stuart Anderson of the National Foundation for American Policy, a non-partisan body that has done extensive research into immigration issues.US President Joe Biden has ended the ban on the entry of H-1B visa holders ordered by Trump ostensibly to protect American jobs for Americans in the wake of unprecedented layoffs caused by the Covid-19 pandemic; and has withdrawn an order denying work authorisation to spouses of H-1B visa-holders cleared for green cards.Biden has also backed an immigration overhaul legislation that seeks to remove country limits on green cards, which, if enacted, will cut waiting time for Indian applicants; and also prevent their dependent children from “aging out” when they turn 21.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/biden-administration-removes-trump-era-h-1b-rule-vacated-by-court-101621368255167.html
19-05-2021||World||From New Jersey, the story of alleged caste discrimination and exploitation||Workers at an under-investigation New Jersey temple were forced to perform manual labour at 1963 pay levels for double or triple the hours they were initially promised but a fellow worker’s death galvanised them into organising, according to a lawsuit filed in the case and conversations with lawyers and unions helping the complainants.The temple was raided by federal agents last Tuesday after allegations that the Bochasanwasi Akshar Purushottam Swaminarayan (BAPS) Sanstha exploited 200 workers, many of them Dalit, for the project.The class action lawsuit was filed in a New Jersey district court and first reported by the New York Times.“These individuals have suffered greatly – financially as a result of the wage theft, physically as a result of the grueling work they were forced to undertake, and mentally as a result of being forced for stay within the temple compound for months, and for many, years,” said Swati Sawant, an attorney for the people who worked at the temple in Robbinsville.“We were first made aware of these accusations early Tuesday morning. We take each seriously and are conducting a thorough internal review. These allegations are also part of a pending lawsuit and tied to claims made by the plaintiffs,” Matthew Frankel, spokesperson for BAPS, said over email.The 42-page lawsuit, which asked for a jury trial, traced an alleged history of exploitation of workers, who worked at the temple since 2011, didn’t read or write in English. All six named plaintiffs in the case are Dalits.The workers were brought to the United States (US) on R1 visas, meant for religious vocations and members of faith-based outfits, through agents and personal BAPS contacts. The workers were told they’d work four to seven hours a day, and later made to labour for 12-13 hours daily.Also Read | Will US Covid vaccine patent waiver lead to more jabs in India? Not really“Although the Plaintiffs and R-1 workers would be performing manual labor for pay at the temple, they were told to describe their work in the United States as volunteer work at the temple, and to say that they would be performing the work as a service to the deities,” the lawsuit alleged.BAPS members held their passport and visas during the recruitment process, gave it to them during transit and took it back once the workers reached the US.“The plaintiffs and the R-1 workers were never able to recover their passports or visas during the entire time they were in the United States,” the lawsuit said.Once they started working at the temple – some started in summer of 2018, others in 2019 – they were given a day off every 30-40 days and paid ₹31,000- ₹35,000 a month. Of this, around ₹3500 was paid to them in cash and the rest deposited in their bank account. Large sums – up to ₹7,500 – would be deducted for infractions.The figures quoted in the lawsuit came out to about ₹95 an hour, or $1.20 an hour.Worker unions pointed out that in comparison, the current US federal minimum wage is $7.25/hour and New Jersey minimum wage is $11/hour for most employees. The pay was comparable to the US minimum wage limit in 1963: $1.25 (not adjusted for inflation).Additionally, the workers couldn’t leave the premises because their papers were with BAPS, 50 cameras monitored them and threats that local police would arrest them if they stepped out. “Workers were told that if they spoke to outside people or if they left the temple premises they would have deductions taken from their wage,” the lawsuit alleged.When a plaintiff told a BAPS member about the pay disparity, he was allegedly told he was “serving god”.A key complaint was that BAPS profited from the vulnerable status of the workers – both on account of their marginalised caste and employment. A top BAPS member allegedly called the worker “worms” and others were forced to make financial guarantees that other workers from India to take their place when they went back home. “One worker was fined 35,000 rupees when a worker he had guaranteed in fact did not return to New Jersey to work,” said the lawsuit.Also Read | Plan long stay, there’s waiting time in visa renewal: US embassy to IndiansBut protests broke out after a worker, Mohan Lal, died, and others demanded better working conditions and a funeral in accordance to the customs followed by Lal.“They stopped work in protest and refused to return to a workplace they knew to be unhealthy and unsafe. The protest leaders were fired and forcibly returned to India,” said the Pathar Gadhai Mazdoor Suraksha Sangh, a labour union that helped the New Jersey workers.The workers hailed from two districts of Rajasthan and came back over the past six to eight months, said Madan Lal Meghwal of the Sangh who conducted interviews with the returnees.“BAPS has a lot of influence in Rajasthan, from where it has been hiring temple workers for many years. In many cases, the workers are worried about their jobs and keep quiet,” he added.The kind of work the New Jersey workers did — cutting and laying stones, removing garbage, road work, dipping stones in chemicals, and other tasks — can lead to long-term health effects. The Sangh, in its interviews, found that workers inhaled dust from cut stones and fumes from chemical solutions used to soak the stones. “This can lead to silicosis and other health damages,” Meghwal said.Since the allegetions became public, some Hindu groups have said a local American company was responsible for the exploitation, not BAPS.They cite an April 30 stop-work order by the New Jersey Department of Labor and Workforce Development (NJDOL) against a Newark-based construction company; the order came after visits to two of the company’s current worksites, BAPS Temple in Robbinsville and BAPS Temple in Edison.“These inspections found the contractor was paying the workers in cash off the books and did not have workers’ compensation insurance,” the NJDOL said in a statement.But the worker unions rejected these charges and NJDOL officials clarified that the stop-work order was not related to the court-ordered federal search of the premises two weeks later.“In any case, the workers have clearly said that BAPS members picked them out, their medical examination was done at BAPS premises in Ahmedabad and their visa process was also done by them. So to say that BAPS was not responsible for recruiting them or their condition is evading responsibility,” said Priyanka Jain, a labour researcher.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/from-new-jersey-the-story-of-alleged-caste-discrimination-and-exploitation-101621335913695.html
19-05-2021||India||How to manage Covid-19 clinically in adult patients? Health ministry explains||The Union health ministry on Wednesday issued an advisory prescribing the treatment protocol for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in adults, categorising them under three sections - mild disease, moderate disease and severe disease.Explaining the clinical guidance under moderate and severe category, the health ministry has specified the stage at which a patient can be discharged. The guidance has been issued by the members of AIIMS, ICMR Covid-19 National Task Force, Joint Monitoring Group, health ministry and Centre.Mild diseaseA mild form of Covid-19 is characterised with upper respiratory tract symptoms, with a fever or lack of it without shortness of breath or hypoxia, the advisory said.In home isolation and care, a mild case of Covid-19 patient should follow physical distancing, indoor mask use and strict hand hygiene. For symptomatic management, a patient can focus on recovering with hydration, anti-pyretics, anti-tussive, multivitamins.Moderate diseaseA patient with a moderate form of Covid-19 infection will show any one of symptoms like respiratory rate more than 24 per min, breathlessness, SpO2: 90% to < 93% on room air.Such a case may require the patient to be admitted to a hospital ward with oxygen support targetting SP02 between 92-96% and 88-92% in patients with COPD).The guidance says preferred devices for oxygenation in such a case will be a non-rebreathing face mask. Additionally, awake pruning is encouraged in all patients requiring supplemental oxygen therapy with sequential position changes every 2 hours, the guidance says.Severe diseaseA patient with a severe form of Covid-19 will show signs of respiratory rate less than 30 per minute or breathlessness or Sp02 < 90% on room air. Due to this severe impact, the patient will need admission to the Intensive Care Unit with respiratory support.In such a treatment protocol, the use of Non-Invasive Ventilation (NIV) like a helmet or face mask interface depending on availability is suggested in patients with increasing oxygen requirement, if work of breathing is low. Additionally, intubation in patients with high work of breathing should be prioritized, if NIV is not tolerated, the guidance advisory said.In this case of Covid-19 infection, a patient should be introduced to anti-inflammatory or immunomodulatory therapy.The guide also states that remdesivir may be considered only in patients with moderate to severe disease, requiring supplemental oxygen.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-to-manage-covid-19-clinically-in-adult-patients-health-ministry-explains-101621444589220.html
19-05-2021||India||Close to 187 million Covid-19 vaccine doses administered so far: Centre||The cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country stands at 18,69,89,265 as per the 8 pm provisional report, the Union Health Ministry said on Wednesday.The ministry said 5,27,067 beneficiaries in the age group of 18-44 received their first dose of Covid-19 vaccine on Wednesday and cumulatively 70,12,752 people across 36 states and UTs since the start of phase-3 of the vaccination drive.The total of 18,69,89,265 beneficiaries include 96,85,597 healthcare workers (HCWs) who have taken the first dose and 66,67,071 HCWs who have taken the second dose, 1,46,34,130 frontline workers (FLWs) who have received the first dose, 82,56,235 FLWs who have taken the second dose, and 70,12,752 individuals in the 18-44 age group who have received the first dose.Besides, 5,83,40,325 and 94,34,731 beneficiaries over 45 to 60 years old have been administered the first and second dose respectively, while 5,49,33,136 and 1,80,25,288 beneficiaries above 60 years have taken the first and second dose respectively, the ministry said.As on ‘Day-124’ of the vaccination drive (19th May, 2021), a total of 11,45,569 vaccine doses were given.The ministry said 9,91,831 beneficiaries were vaccinated for the first dose and 1,53,738 beneficiaries for the second dose of vaccine as per the provisional report till 8 pm.Final reports would be completed for the day by late night, it added.The vaccination exercise as a tool to protect the most vulnerable population groups in the country from Covid-19 continues to be regularly reviewed and monitored at the highest level, the ministry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/close-to-187-million-covid-19-vaccine-doses-administered-so-far-centre-101621445184802.html
19-05-2021||India||Odisha alerts coastal districts amid cyclone warning||The Odisha government on Wednesday asked the collectors of coastal districts to remain alert and make necessary arrangements in the wake of the weather department's forecast of a possible cyclone on May 26.Special Relief Commissioner PK Jena held a meeting with the district collectors and SPs, besides speaking to the senior officials of the local meteorological office, NDRF, ODRAF, the Odisha Police and the fire brigade, among others."There is no confirmed information that the cyclone will make landfall on the Odisha coast. We have received some preliminary reports from IMD which predicted a possible cyclonic storm in Odisha-West Bengal coast on May 26," Jena told reporters after the meeting."There is also no information about which districts are likely to be hit by the possible calamity," he added.Jena said that he is in constant touch with IMD DG Mrutunjay Mohapatra and Regional Meteorological Centre Director HR Biswas.The collectors have been informed about the IMD's forecast and all are asked to remain vigilant on the emerging situation, he said."Some news channels are showing possible wind speed, the possible location of landfall and other related stories, which have no basis," he noted.A low-pressure area is very likely to form over North Andaman Sea and adjoining east central Bay of Bengal on May 22 and intensify into a cyclonic storm, the Met Department said.The system is very likely to move northwestwards and reach West Bengal-Odisha coasts around May 26 evening.The low-pressure area, after formation on May 22, is very likely to intensify into a cyclonic storm during the subsequent 72 hours."It is premature to forecast the place of landfall of the possible cyclone. The models now indicate that a cyclonic storm will be formed in West Bengal-Odisha coast," Mohapatra said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-alerts-coastal-districts-amid-cyclone-warning-101621445110847.html
19-05-2021||India||Respect popular sentiment on dropping Shailaja but it’s final: Pinarayi Vijayan||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Wednesday justified the party’s decision to drop all ministers of the outgoing government and said he respected the popular sentiment over health minister KK Shailaja’s exclusion from his next cabinet but it was a well-thought out call and there was no plan to dilute it.There were loud protests after KK Shailaja, the face of the state’s fight against the pandemic was dropped from the new cabinet. The ruling Communist Party of India (Marxist) said she couldn’t be an exception since all ministers of the outgoing ministry were dropped to make way for new faces. Party policies were important, not individuals, it said. Many left camp followers, cine artists, writers and students have vented their anger at the government on social media, criticising the decision to drop KK Shailaja. Shailaja has also pleaded with her supporters not to get emotional over the decision and asked them to respect the party’s stand. “We stick to our decision. Once the party takes a decision it will be implemented,” said acting secretary A Vijayaraghavan.The high-profile health minister will be replaced by journalist-turned-politician Veena George, 44, according to the portfolios announced on Wednesday.“We respect their sentiments (over dropping KK Shailaja). But the party has taken a decision much earlier to induct new faces. It can’t give exemptions to some. It was a collective decision. All ministers of the outgoing government worked well and it reflected in the election also,” Pinarayi Vijayan said.To a question whether Shailaja should have been exempted from this decision, he said there were many other ministers in the outgoing council of ministers who also deserved similar exemptions but the party took a firm decision on this.“You may ask why the chief minister got an exemption then. It was also the decision of the party. In the party, there is no room for individual decisions; it is a collective one. Many are interpreting that I was behind the move but it is not right,” he said, adding the ongoing fight against pandemic will not be weakened by change in the ministry.“Our fight against pandemic is a collective one. It will continue with renewed vigour,” he said.Pinarayi Vijayan’s oath event to be held in state capital Thiruvananthapuram’s stadium on Thursday has also turned into a bit of opposition since the government relaxed the Covid-19 protocol that bars gatherings of more than 50 people.Kerala reported 32,763 cases after testing 1.40,545 persons with a test positivity rate of 23.3%. It also reported 112 deaths on Wednesday, the highest since the outbreak, taking the total fatalities in the state to 6724. Kerala has an active caseload of 3,31,860. The chief minister said there is a significant drop in the cases after a triple lockdown in four districts and a normal shutdown in the rest of the state.Pinarayi Vijayan, who announced portfolios of his new cabinet which will take oath on Thursday, has allocated the tourism and public works department for his son-in-law PA Mohammad Riyas. Much like his victory in the assembly elections - he is the first Kerala chief minister to get a second straight term in 40 years - Pinarayi Vijayan’s decision to induct his son-in-law in his cabinet is also a first in Kerala.PA Mohammad Riyas was the president of the Democratic Youth Federation of India, the party’s youth wing and was elected to the assembly from Beypore constituency in Kozhikode. Former member of the Rajya Sabha KN Balagopal is the new finance minister, succeeding Dr Thomas Isaac, an economist. Hailing from Kollam district, KN Balagopal has been in the party for more than three decades. Another former RS member, P Rajeev will be the new industry minister. Prof R Bindhu, acting secretary A Vijayaraghavan’s wife, is the higher education minister. The other ministers are MV Govindan, (excise and local self-government), K Radhakrishnan (devaswom), V Sivankutty (labour and education), VN Vasavan (co-operation), K Krishnankutty (power), Antony Raju (transport), AK Saseendran (forest), Roshi Augustin (water affairs), Ahmad Deverkoil (ports), Saji Cherian (fisheries), V Abdul Rehman (minority affairs), Chinju Rani (animal husbandry), K Rajan (revenue), P Prasad (agriculture) and J R Anil (civil supplies).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/respect-popular-sentiment-on-dropping-shailaja-but-it-s-final-pinarayi-vijayan-101621444356563.html
19-05-2021||India||You can self-test Covid at home by taking nasal swab, ICMR issues advisory||The Indian Council of Medical Research on Wednesday issued an advisory for Covid-19 home testing where an individual will be able to test himself or herself without the presence of any medical professional. Giving details of how to conduct this test, the ICMR said that it has approved one kit called CoviSelf for the purpose of home testing. Only nasal swab will be required for this rapid antigen testing.CoviSelf test is "authorised for non-prescription home use with self-collected nasal swab specimens from individuals aged 18 years and older or with adult-collected samples from individuals aged 2 years or older".In its advisory, the ICMR said that this should not be used indiscriminately. Only those who have symptoms and those who are immediate contacts of laboratory-confirmed positive cases should opt for this home-based testing.𝐈𝐂𝐌𝐑 𝐢𝐬𝐬𝐮𝐞𝐝 𝐀𝐝𝐯𝐢𝐬𝐨𝐫𝐲 𝐟𝐨𝐫 𝐂𝐎𝐕𝐈𝐃-𝟏𝟗 𝐇𝐨𝐦𝐞 𝐓𝐞𝐬𝐭𝐢𝐧𝐠 𝐮𝐬𝐢𝐧𝐠 𝐑𝐚𝐩𝐢𝐝 𝐀𝐧𝐭𝐢𝐠𝐞𝐧 𝐓𝐞𝐬𝐭𝐬 (𝐑𝐀𝐓𝐬). For more details visit https://t.co/dI1pqvXAsZ @PMOIndia #ICMRFIGHTSCOVID19 #IndiaFightsCOVID19 pic.twitter.com/membV3hPbXHow to use the kitWith the kit, a manual will come describing the entire process. The ICMR too gave the video links for the convenience of users from where one can see the steps to be followed.The kit comes in a pouch containing a nasal swab and a pre-filled extraction tube and one test card.For the test, the users will have to download the mylab app on their mobile phones, where the credentials have to be filled.New RT-PCR kit 97.3% sensitive in detecting Covid mutants: All you need to knowWithout touching the swab head, insert the swab inside both the nostrils up to 2 to 3 centimetres. Roll the swab five times inside each nostril.Dip the swab in the tube, pinch the tube at the bottom and swirl the nasal swab 10 times to ensure that the swab is immersed well in the tube.The swab has to be broken from the breakpoint. Covering the tube, two drops have to be added to the test kit by pressing. One has to wait for 15 minutes for the results to appear. Any result appearing after 20 minutes is considered invalid.At 15 minute, the app will ring and the result will be available on the app.The ICMR in its guideline said that the data on the mobile app will be centrally connected to a secure server that is connected with the ICMR Covid-19 testing portal. There is no threat to patient confidentiality, the ICMR said.All those who test positive do not require additional testing as this self-testing will be considered as true positives. Those who test negative may opt for RT-PCR testing. Such negative but symptomatic individuals may be treated as suspect Covid-19 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/you-can-test-yourself-for-covid-at-home-icmr-issues-advisory-101621443773839.html
19-05-2021||India||'Khan Chacha' owner Navneet Kalra booked by ED for money laundering||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Wednesday registered a money laundering case against businessman and restaurateur, Navneet Kalra, who was arrested by Delhi Police on Sunday evening for allegedly hoarding oxygen concentrators and selling them at inflated prices, officials said on Wednesday.The money laundering probe against Kalra can get him in trouble as the ED is likely to dig out all his suspected financial transactions in the past.Kalra’s dramatic arrest from a farmhouse in Gurugram took place on Sunday even as a battery of lawyers was trying to obtain anticipatory bail for him from the Delhi high court throughout the week. He was being looked for since the recovery of 524 oxygen concentrators from three of his restaurants – Khan Chacha, Town Hall and Nege & Ju – and from the office of Matrix Cellular on May 7.As part of its probe under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA), the ED will look into the money trail of sale and purchase of oxygen concentrators, whether the hoarded concentrators were being given to the Covid-19 patients family members and caregivers at exorbitant prices and others who are involved with him, said an ED official who didn’t want to be named.The federal anti-money laundering probe agency has powers to attach properties if established that money made by the accused is proceeds of crime.Another officer said that they have already taken all documents relating to the case from the Delhi Police and an investigation has already begun after registering an ECIR (Enforcement Case Information Report) – equivalent to the First Information Report (FIR) – a few days ago.Delhi Police has claimed that it has evidence to prove that oxygen concentrators, which were bought for ₹14,000 to ₹15,000, were being sold for over ₹75,000.The demand for oxygen concentrators swelled during the fourth wave of the Covid-19 pandemic in the national capital with many hospitals running out of medical oxygen as the number of critically ill patients rose. Such concentrators, which can derive 80-90% pure oxygen from ambient air, were also a crucial part of the medical supplies and aids provided by many foreign countries to help India’s efforts against the pandemic.Four employees of Matrix Cellular Company, including its CEO and vice president, were also arrested in this case by the police. They were, however, granted bail by the court.Kalra is alleged to have purchased the concentrators from Matrix Cellular which had imported them.A lawyer, who represented Kalra in Delhi high court, refused to comment saying they have not been informed by the ED about the probe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/khan-chacha-owner-navneet-kalra-booked-by-ed-for-money-laundering-101621441725275.html
19-05-2021||India||Kerala HC allows physical swearing in of Pinarayi government, says exercise utmost caution||The Kerala High Court on Wednesday allowed the physical swearing-in ceremony of the new government at a stadium in Thiruvananthapuram tomorrow but directed that the number of people should be restricted to prevent the spread of the coronavirus. "Though States like West Bengal and Tamil Nadu, with more number of Legislators in the Assembly have performed the swearing-in ceremony with lesser number, Government of Kerala, a forerunner in Covid-19 management, should restrict the number to the maximum to avoid the widespread COVID-19," the court said.The court gave the verdict in a plea filed by Dr K J Prince from a Thrissur-based NGO, 'Chikithsaneethi'. The petitioner alleged that the swearing-ing was to be conducted physically with the participation of more than 500 people and sought the court's intervention.The petitioner, a social activist, alleged that the function was going to be conducted in a situation where the disaster management authority had declared Triple Lockdown in four districts in Kerala including Thiruvananthapuram.Imposing further restrictions on the function, the court said, "Political parties shall take a decision as to whether all the MLAs are required to be present in the swearing-in ceremony." "The spouses and relatives of all the MLAs, except the designated ministers, are not required to participate in the swearing-in ceremony. The ceremony can be viewed from the residence of the respective MLAs," it said.The court said government officials required for the performance/participation in the ceremony alone shall be permitted.It directed the state government to consider whether the presence of all the special invitees, including the members of the state committee of the political parties, are required to be present, in view of the utmost adverse situation prevailing due to the pandemic.It said this direction applies to all the special invitees including persons who have contributed to the Chief Minister's Disaster Relief Fund (CMDRF).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-hc-allows-physical-swearing-in-of-pinarayi-government-says-exercise-utmost-caution-101621441008363.html
19-05-2021||India||On Kejriwal's Covid strain comment, Singapore says 'reserve right to invoke fake news law'||Singapore’s high commissioner Simon Wong told a virtual news conference that his country was satisfied with the Indian government's clarification on Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s remarks about a new Covid-19 strain allegedly being detected in Singapore. Wong said the country reserves the right to invoke a domestic fake news law to prevent the spreading of misinformation.High commissioner Wong said Singapore wants to put aside the “unfortunate chapter” caused by Kejriwal’s remarks and focus on the shared fight against the pandemic. Referring to the law called Protection from Online Falsehoods and Manipulation Act (POFMA), he added, “So, we reserve the right to invoke POFMA on some of the comments and assertions made by the honourable chief minister on this topic.”Kejriwal’s remarks triggered a diplomatic spat on Wednesday, with the Southeast Asian country calling in the Indian envoy to lodge an objection.Also read | From Jaishankar to Singapore minister Vivian Balakrishnan: Who said what on Kejriwal's Covid variant claimIndian high commissioner P Kumaran clarified Kejriwal had “no competence” to comment on Covid-19 variants, external affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said in a tweet. External affairs minister S Jaishankar described Kejriwal’s remarks as “irresponsible” and said the chief minister didn’t speak for India.It is rare for the external affairs ministry to acknowledge that an Indian envoy has been called in by a foreign government to lodge a protest, and also to publicly criticise an elected Indian official.Hours after Kejriwal tweeted on Tuesday about the alleged new Covid-19 strain in Singapore and asked the Centre to immediately suspend flights from that country, Singapore’s health ministry dismissed his assertions and said the variant prevalent in many Covid-19 cases in recent weeks was the “B.1.617.2 variant, which originated in India”.“Singapore Government called in our High Commissioner today to convey strong objection to Delhi CM's tweet on ‘Singapore variant’. High Commissioner clarified that Delhi CM had no competence to pronounce on Covid variants or civil aviation policy,” Bagchi tweeted.Jaishankar tweeted that Singapore and India are solid partners in the fight against Covid-19, and appreciated Singapore's role as a logistics hub and oxygen supplier.“However, irresponsible comments from those who should know better can damage long-standing partnerships. So, let me clarify – Delhi CM does not speak for India,” he added.Also read: Coronavirus variant found in Singapore can be India's 3rd wave, extremely dangerous for kids, warns Arvind KejriwalEarlier on Wednesday, Singapore foreign minister Vivian Balakrishnan quoted Kejriwal’s original tweet and wrote on Twitter: “Politicians should stick to facts! There is no ‘Singapore variant’.”Balakrishnan included in his tweet a link to an article in the publication Nature with the headline “Coronavirus variants are spreading in India – what scientists know so far”. The article said Covid-19 variants, including B.1.617, have been linked to the massive surge in infections in India in recent weeks.Singapore’s foreign ministry rejected “unfounded assertions” on social media by Kejriwal and expressed its disappointment “that a prominent political figure had failed to ascertain the facts before making such claims”. These concerns were conveyed to the Indian envoy, the ministry said.People familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity that the Singapore government reacted so strongly because Kejriwal’s assertions had not gone down well with the public. Many people had taken umbrage at his remarks and publicly complained about them, the people said.The Singapore health ministry’s statement of Tuesday cited Indian media reports quoting Kejriwal and said, “There is no truth whatsoever in the assertions found within the reports.”The statement added, “There is no ‘Singapore variant’. The strain that is prevalent in many of the Covid-19 cases in recent weeks is the B.1.617.2 variant, which originated in India. Phylogenetic testing has shown this B.1.617.2 variant to be associated with several clusters in Singapore.”Kejriwal had asked the Centre to immediately suspend flights from Singapore because the alleged new strain was suspected to affect children. Union aviation minister Hardeep Puri responded to Kejriwal’s remarks by saying there were no regular flights between India and Singapore, except for a few under the Vande Bharat mission to repatriate Indian nationals.Kejriwal had said in his tweet in Hindi, “The new form of Covid-19 that has come to Singapore is being said to be extremely dangerous for children. In India, it may come as a third wave. My appeal to the Central government: 1. Air services with Singapore be cancelled with immediate effect 2. Priority on vaccine options should be worked out for children too.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-kejriwal-s-covid-strain-comment-singapore-says-reserve-right-to-invoke-fake-news-law-101621439786020.html
19-05-2021||India||How does bad ventilation spread Covid? Govt's principal scientific advisor explains||Apart from adhering to social distancing and mask rules, ventilation plays a key role in stopping the transmission of the Covid-19 virus, the office of the principal scientific adviser to the government of India said issuing a detailed guideline on stopping the transmission. Advisor Dr K VijayRaghavan recently tweeted that whether vaccinated or not, one must not forget the three principles of crushing the pandemic — masks, physical distancing and ventilation. The detailed guideline comes as an extension of the advice."Just as smells can be diluted by ventilation, the dangerous concentration of the virus can be reduced by ensuring that outdoor air flows in," the guideline said adding that the placement of the fan is also crucial as the fan should not be at a place where it can cause contaminated air to flow directly to someone else. If the windows and doors of a room are shut, the exhaust fans should keep running. "Add an exhaust fan OR turn a pedestal fan into an exhaust fan by turning it to face outdoors, to create the ideal airflow for maximum protection from indoor infection," the guideline said.'Vaccinated or not': Government's scientific advisor has 3 tips against Covid-19For workspaces, the guideline suggests keeping windows and doors ajar with the air-conditioners running so that clean air can enter and dilute virus particles. For maximum air circulation, the addition of an exhaust fan has also been suggested.Lack of windows, cross-ventilation creates excessive viral load and increase the chances of infection inside poorly ventilated spaces, the guideline said.Explaining why utmost caution is the need of the hour, the guideline reiterated that some infected people may never show any symptoms but can release enough droplets to create a "viral load" that can infect many others."Saliva and nasal discharge in the form of droplets and aerosols carry the virus from one person to another. Larger size droplets fall to the ground and on surfaces, and smaller aerosol particles are carried in the air to greater distances. In closed un-ventilated indoor spaces, droplets and aerosols become quickly concentrated and greatly increase the risk of transmission to people in the area," the Centre said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-does-bad-ventilation-spread-covid-govt-s-principal-scientific-advisor-explains-101621440662571.html
19-05-2021||India||Cyclone Tauktae: Petroleum ministry forms committee to enquire stranding of ONGC vessels in Arabian Sea||The oil ministry on Wednesday constituted a high-level committee to enquire into the sequence of events leading to the stranding of three vessels of a contractor of ONGC in cyclone 'Tauktae'.Three barges of Afcons, a contractor working on ONGC fields off the west coast with more than 600 people on board, were stranded in offshore areas during the severe cyclone."The stranding, drifting and subsequent events have led to loss of several lives," a ministry statement said without giving details.A committee comprising Amitabh Kumar, Director General of Shipping; SCL Das, Director General of Hydrocarbons, and Nazli Jafri Shayin, Joint Secretary, Ministry of Defence has been constituted to enquire into the incidents.The panel may co-opt any other member, and take assistance of any person it deems necessary."The committee shall submit its report within one month," it said.It has been asked to "inquire into the sequence of events leading to the stranding and drifting of these vessels, and subsequent events.‎""Whether the warnings issued by Meteorological Department and other statutory authorities were adequately considered and acted upon" will also be looked into by the panel, the statement said.The panel will also enquire if "the Standard Operating Procedures for securing the vessels and dealing with disaster management were adequately followed," it said adding ‎lapses and gaps in the systems leading to the stranding and drifting of the vessels will also looked into.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-tauktae-petroleum-ministry-forms-committee-to-enquire-stranding-of-ongc-vessels-in-arabian-sea-101621438976416.html
19-05-2021||India||News updates from HT: Kejriwal's remarks would not impact ties, says Singapore High Commissioner and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Kejriwal's remarks would not impact India-Singapore ties, says High CommissionerSimon Wong, Singapore High Commissioner to India, said on Wednesday that Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s recent comment regarding the new Covid variant reported in Singapore would have no impact on India-Singapore’s efforts to fight Covid-19 “hand-in-hand”. Read moreNew RT-PCR kit 97.3% sensitive in detecting Covid mutants: All you need to knowUnion health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan on Wednesday said the new RT-PCR kit developed by Sree Chitra Turunal Institute for Medical Science and Technology under the department of sciences and technology is 97.3 per cent sensitive. Read moreNew York state probes Trump Organization in ‘criminal capacity’The New York state attorney general’s office has announced it is now investigating the Trump Organization also in a “criminal capacity”, broadening its civil probe in a significant escalation of legal risk for former president Donald Trump, a one-time New Yorker who now lives in Florida. Read moreCentre relaxes deadline for opening account in SBI for foreign funds by NGOsThe Union home ministry has extended the deadline for opening designated bank accounts for foreign donations meant for non-governmental organisations (NGOs) at the State Bank of India (SBI)’s 11 Sansad Marg branch in New Delhi to June 30. Read moreSingularly focused on Covid relief activities: CongressAbout 100 activists of the Indian Youth Congress (IYC) have been working round the clock in the national Capital monitoring the availability of beds in hospitals while a smaller group manages a Covid control room that receives calls from people looking for help. Read more﻿‘Sometimes he points out that you don't look too happy’: Shami on why Virat Kohli celebrates wickets more than bowlersTeam India speedster Mohammed Shami is no different. Even though he is mostly seen celebrating his scalps with a bright smile and the right index finger pointing upwards, there have been occasions where he has been more expressive. Read moreMove over LBDs, Priyanka Chopra is making a strong case for little pink dressesPriyanka Chopra Jonas can make even the baggiest of burlap sacks look good so when The White Tiger actor does take effort, it is no doubt that she leaves many of her fans and followers picking up their jaws. Read moreWatch: After Tauktae, now Cyclone Yaas all set to hit Bengal, Odisha around May 25||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-kejriwal-s-remarks-would-not-impact-india-singapore-ties-says-high-commissioner-and-all-the-latest-news-101621436988521.html
19-05-2021||India||Nearly 11,800 tonnes of medical oxygen delivered via Oxygen Express trains||Indian Railways has delivered nearly 11,800 tonnes of liquid medical oxygen (LMO) in more than 727 tankers to various states across the country, the ministry said on Wednesday.A total of 196 'Oxygen Express' trains have completed their journey so far and brought relief to various states. Till Wednesday afternoon, 11 loaded Oxygen Expresses are on the run with more than 717 tonnes of LMO in 43 tankers, it said.Oxygen Expresses have been delivering nearly 800 tonnes of LMO across the nation daily for last few days, the ministry said."Oxygen relief by Oxygen Expresses reached out to 13 states namely Uttarakhand, Karnataka, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Haryana, Telangana, Punjab, Kerala, Delhi & Uttar Pradesh," it said.So far, 521 tonnes of oxygen has been offloaded in Maharashtra, nearly 2,979 tonnes in Uttar Pradesh, 498 tonnes in Madhya Pradesh, 1,507 tonnes in Haryana, 653 tonnes in Telangana, 97 tonnes in Rajasthan, 481 tonnes in Karnataka, 200 tonnes in Uttarakhand, 440 tonnes in Tamil Nadu, 227 tonnes in Andhra Pradesh, 81 tonnes in Punjab, 117 tonnes in Kerala and more than 3,978 tonnes in Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nearly-11-800-tonnes-of-medical-oxygen-delivered-via-oxygen-express-trains-101621435420925.html
19-05-2021||India||What we know so far about new Covid strain in Singapore||A variant of Covid-19 reportedly found in Singapore has become the centre of a controversy that is raging from India to Singapore as Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has on Tuesday said a variant now being found in Singapore can be dangerous for kids.Here is what we know so far about the strain and Singapore's rise in Covid cases> Infections of "untraceable origin" have surfaced in Singapore in the last few weeks, the Associated Press reported.> Restrictions have been brought back in Singapore and these curbs will be in place until June 13. Restaurants are not operating for dine-in and public gathering has been reduced to two people.> Singapore government said the variant is B.1.617.2 which originated in India.> Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain has said that the variant spreading in Singapore is different.From Jaishankar to Singapore minister Vivian Balakrishnan: Who said what on Kejriwal's Covid variant claim> From Wednesday, schools in Singapore have been shut. Schools will not reopen before May 28, an AFP report said. The shutting down of school was announced on Sunday on the same day when Singapore reported 38 new cases of Covid-19 infections, the highest number reported in a year.> A week before, Singapore reported 32 cases and in the week before that, there were only six cases, So from 6 to 32 to 38 — all happened in two weeks' time.> Singapore authorities have said that this strain is affecting children more. But they have reiterated that the strain was first detected in India.> Singapore has decided to vaccinate students aged 12 to 15 years as the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine has been cleared for administration among this age group.What we know so far about third wave of Covid-19 pandemic in IndiaAmid the raging controversy over what Kejriwal said, the AAP government reiterated that the issue is not where the strain originated from, but the safety of the children who were thought to be immune against the attack of the virus so far. Government's principal scientific advisor Dr K VijayRaghavan, early this month, said that a third wave of the pandemic is likely to strike India again. It can be avoided if by that time a large number of people are vaccinated, he said, adding that social distancing and wearing of the mask will remain equally important.That the third wave will be dangerous for children has not been scientifically claimed anywhere but doing the rounds for quite some time. Justice DY Chandrachud, while hearing a case on Covid-19 management in the Supreme Court, commented that the third wave will affect children. The Maharashtra government said it was setting up paediatric covid wards, in preparation for the third wave.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/what-we-know-so-far-about-new-covid-strain-in-singapore-101621434435955.html
19-05-2021||India||Kerala logs 32,762 new Covid-19 cases, 112 new deaths push toll to 6,724||Kerala registered 32,762 new Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, pushing the infection count to 22,03,413, while the toll mounted to 6,724 with 112 more deaths, the state government said.As many as 48,413 persons have been cured, taking the total recoveries to 18,94,518, while 3,31,860 are undergoing treatment for the infection, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan told reporters here.In the last 24 hours,1,40,545 samples were tested and the Test Positivity Rate (TPR) was 23.3 per cent.So far 1,82,89,940 samples have been tested.Ernakulam reported 4,282 cases, the highest, followed by Malappuram 4,212. Thiruvananthapuram and Kollam reported over 3,000 cases.Of the new cases, 104 are health workers, 218 had come from outside the state and 30,432 were infected through contact.As many as 10,05,084 persons are under quarantine, including 40,199 in hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-logs-32-762-new-covid-19-cases-112-new-deaths-push-toll-to-6724-101621432679345.html
19-05-2021||India||Kejriwal's remarks would not impact India-Singapore ties, says High Commissioner||Simon Wong, Singapore High Commissioner to India, said on Wednesday that Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s recent comment regarding the new Covid variant reported in Singapore would have no impact on India-Singapore’s efforts to fight Covid-19 “hand-in-hand”. Wong also said that Singapore has continued to transport medical aid in a spirit of working together to combat the pandemic, which knows no political colour or boundary.“It (Delhi CM's remarks) would not impact our (India-Singapore) hand-in-hand fight against Covid. As witnessed yesterday and today with transportation of medical aid, we're working together. Pandemic knows no boundary or political colour,” ANI said quoting Wong.Arvind Kejriwal’s remark on a new variant of Covid-19 found in Singapore and affecting children had set off a political storm. Arindam Bagchi, the ministry of external affairs spokesperson, said on Twitter that the Singapore government has registered a strong objection to Kejriwal’s remarks. The Indian High Commissioner clarified that Kejriwal has no authority to make such remarks, a point reiterated by external affairs minister S Jaishankar.The High Commissioner also said that the Singapore government had deliberated invoking their Protection from Online Falsehoods and Manipulation Act to counter online misinformation but the Government of India’s clarification had been satisfactory hence the Act was not invoked.“In Singapore, we have Protection from Online Falsehoods and Manipulation Act (POFMA) to mitigate misinformation and we reserve the right to invoke POFMA on assertions made by CM (Delhi). However, we're satisfied with GoI's clarification,” said Wong.As per World Health Organization’s practice, a strain does not get geographical names, as the practice focuses only on the scientific aspects of combating a pandemic rather than pointing fingers at anyone.“The Singapore Government prefers to deal with viruses and its variants in scientific terms. We abide closely with WHO’s recommendation of not giving the virus any geographical name. We focus more on the scientific aspect rather than to put a finger on anyone” he added.WHO had released a guideline in 2015 which advised against naming diseases, viruses or variants after the countries from which they originate as it could stigmatise the people living there.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kejriwals-remarks-would-not-impact-india-singapore-ties-says-high-commissioner-101621430535127.html
19-05-2021||India||AIIMS neurologist says black fungus cases cross 3-digit mark, asks diabetic patients to control sugar||Amid the second wave of Covid-19, India is witnessing a rapid rise in the cases of black fungus, also called mucormycosis. The head of the neurology department of All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) Delhi, Prof MV Padma Srivastava, on Wednesday said that the number of black fungus infections has crossed the 3-digit mark at the hospital and are increasing rapidly, reported the news agency ANI.More than 20 cases of black fungus are reported daily, said Prof Srivastava, adding that mucor wards have been made separately at AIIMS Trauma Centre and AIIMS Jhajjar, reported ANI.Also read: Karnataka forms task force on black fungus, so far identifies 97 cases in state"The number of Black fungus cases is increasing rapidly. We've crossed the 3-digit mark. We've made mucor wards separately at AIIMS Trauma centre and AIIMS Jhajjar. We're getting over 20 cases of Black fungus daily," ANI quoted Prof Srivastava as saying.Sir Gangaram Hospital in New Delhi has recorded nearly 100 cases of black fungus since May 7. Currently, 69 patients are admitted in the hospital with mucormycosisThe risk of contracting black fungus is very high because of the low immunity caused due to the use of steroids in the treatment of Covid-19 infections. Prof Srivastava warned that it is very important for Covid-19 patients with diabetes to strictly monitor and control their sugar. She also said that there should be rational use of steroids for the treatment.Also read: Maharashtra issues guidelines for handling rising mucormycosis cases"The index of suspicion of contracting Black fungus is very high because of low immunity. If Covid happens to diabetic people, sugar should be strictly controlled and there should be rational use of steroids," she said.The Union health ministry listed--pain and redness around the eyes and/or nose, fever, headache, coughing, shortness of breath, vomit with blood, altered mental status--symptoms for the identification of the fungal infection.Karnataka, Uttarakhand, Telangana, Madhya Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh, Haryana and Bihar are some of the states that have reported black fungus cases so far. Due to the massive surge in mucormycosis infections in Rajasthan, the state government declared it an epidemic on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aiims-doctor-says-black-fungus-cases-cross-3-digit-mark-asks-diabetic-patients-to-control-sugar-101621426958616.html
19-05-2021||India||New RT-PCR kit 97.3% sensitive in detecting Covid mutants: All you need to know||Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan on Wednesday said the new RT-PCR kit developed by Sree Chitra Turunal Institute for Medical Science and Technology under the department of sciences and technology is 97.3 per cent sensitive. On Tuesday, the government announced the development of the kit and said it has a higher accuracy of detecting the various mutant strains of the Covid-19 virus. It also has 100 per cent specificity in detection, the government said.ICMR okays new RT-PCR kit with ‘high accuracy’#COVID19 के खिलाफ़ एक और हथियार!@IndiaDST के अधीन @sctimst_tvm ने COVID-19 के विभिन्न म्युटेंट स्ट्रेंस का पता लगाने वाली एक नई मल्टीप्लेक्स #RTPCR किट विकसित की है। इस किट में COVID-19 का पता लगाने के मामले में 97.3% संवेदनशीलता व 100% विशिष्टता है।@PMOIndia pic.twitter.com/2mxnFP2fuFHere is all you need to know> RT-PCR test is considered the gold standard of Covid testing, though the government in its latest protocol shifted the focus from RT-PCR tests to rapid antigen tests as the RT-PCR labs came under immense pressure in April with an unprecedented rise in the number of tests.> It was apprehended that the RT-PCR test was not detecting mutant strains as many people tested false negative. But experts reiterated that all strains are detected in RT-PCR tests.> Now the new kit claims to detect a wide range of mutant strains by targeting two SARS CoV2 genes: RdRp and ORFb-nsp14.> Studies have shown that targeting these two genes can give precise results as they are two highly accurate confirmatory genes.> Mutation refers to the continuous and natural process of change in the virus. It has been found out that the ORFb-nsp14 gene has the least mutations and is, therefore, a key to fool-proof detection, be it any variant strain.> Through this kit, "facile detection" of mutations will take place.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-rt-pcr-kit-97-3-sensitive-in-detecting-covid-mutants-all-you-need-to-know-101621428340526.html
19-05-2021||India||Centre relaxes deadline for opening account in SBI for foreign funds by NGOs||The Union home ministry has extended the deadline for opening designated bank accounts for foreign donations meant for non-governmental organisations (NGOs) at the State Bank of India (SBI)’s 11 Sansad Marg branch in New Delhi to June 30. The previous deadline expired on March 31 and many NGOs argued this was hampering their work related to Covid-19 relief. Several NGOs approached Delhi and Gauhati high courts seeking exemption from opening bank accounts in New Delhi.The amended Foreign Contribution Registration Act (FCRA), enacted in September 2020, made it mandatory for all office bearers of NGOs to register their Aadhar details and open designated accounts in Delhi if they wished to receive foreign funds.Also Read | RBI’s reading of the economy“Existing FCRA holders have now to open the FCRA account in SBI New Delhi up to June 30,” said a ministry order on Tuesday. It said that post July 1, the NGOs not having an account in SBI will not be able to receive any foreign funding.The ministry also issued another order on Tuesday saying that the validity of FCRA licences that expired or have been expiring since September 2020 will now remain valid till September end this year.The government made the FCRA stringent last year by including clauses that prohibit public servants from receiving any funds from abroad. It also made Aadhar registration mandatory for NGOs, prohibited transfer of foreign funds to another person and designated the SBI branch in New Delhi as the only one where such funds can be received.The amended law also does not allow NGOs to use more than 20% of foreign funds for administrative purposes, a limit which was 50% earlier.Advocate Abishek Jebaraj, who is representing an Andhra Pradesh NGO in Delhi high court, said: “We are happy that it gives us immediate relief, but 40 days exemption is not enough, especially for NGOs working in states like Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu and have to submit documents in New Delhi. ...opening a bank account and actually operationalising it takes time...”Jebaraj said around 12 NGOs have challenged the FCRA rule in the high court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-relaxes-deadline-for-opening-account-in-sbi-for-foreign-funds-by-ngos-101621428152987.html
19-05-2021||India||No Covid-19 vaccine appointment via Telegram, Centre busts fake news||The government on Wednesday notified about a false Telegram account that claims to help with the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccine appointment booking. Fact-checking the claim in an image, the government said that the image is morphed and the Telegram account, mentioned in the image, is not associated with @mygovindia, as it had stated to be for the appointment.Citizens should register for vaccine appointments on cowin.gov.in, UMANG or Aarogya Setu, the government added in the tweet that fact-checked the false information.Claim:#COVID19 vaccination appointment can be booked on Telegram using 'MyGov Corona Vaccine Appt'#PIBFactCheck:This image is #Morphed. Neither this number nor Telegram account is associated with @mygovindiaRegister for vaccine on https://t.co/61Oox5pH7x,UMANG or Aarogya Setu pic.twitter.com/zL9UhtJFVzMany such accounts make false claims that they help with vaccine booking, as people are struggling to get an appointment due to the vaccine shortage or some technical glitches in the official app.The false claim asserted that vaccine appointments can now be booked via the Telegram app and mentioned a number that can be used for booking the slot as on a click the individuals can interact with 'MyGov Corona Vaccine Appt'. The link that was mentioned to help with the appointment is: bit.ly/Mygov-Corona-Telegram. It is fake, the government clarified.Also read: Nitin Gadkari says he was 'unaware', a day after his vaccine ramp-up suggestionsThe world's largest vaccination drive began on January 16 and is currently in its third phase, opened to everyone above the age of 18 years. The vaccination process in the country is digitally managed as people need to book an appointment via Co-Win or Aarogya Setu app developed by the government for monitoring the vaccination system.More than 18.5 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses have been administered so far in the country, according to the Union health ministry data.India on Wednesday reported 267,334 new Covid-19 infections in the last 24 hours, while 4,542 people succumbed to the disease, as per the data. India recorded the highest single-day mortalities worldwide with more than 4,500 deaths in the last 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-covid-19-vaccine-appointment-via-telegram-centre-busts-fake-news-101621421151769.html
19-05-2021||India||Not from Singapore: Court tells Delhi govt on next Covid-19 wave||The Delhi High Court Wednesday cautioned the Delhi Government from stretching any further the issue that a third wave of Covid-19 could be coming from Singapore or some other country, saying India already has its own variants of the virus and does not need any other nation for it.“Let’s be clear, there is no wave from Singapore” and “we don’t need any other country, we have our own variants,” said a bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh which interjected when Delhi government's counsel was making submissions that the next wave could be coming from Singapore or some other country.After the remarks by the bench, senior advocate Rahul Mehra, representing the Delhi government, replied “from wherever… the second variant is from India only.”Stressing on the need for vaccination, he also said “Until and unless everyone is safe, none is safe.”The court was hearing the plea over the condition of subordinate judiciary’s judicial officers who are at risk of contracting Covid-19 owing to the nature of duties.On Tuesday, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had called for cancelling all air services with Singapore with immediate effect, saying a strain of coronavirus found in that country could reach Delhi in the form of a third wave. He had said the new form of coronavirus in Singapore is said to be very dangerous for children.However, the statement drew criticism even as the Singapore government conveyed to the Indian High Commissioner its strong objection.External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar said the Delhi chief minister does not speak for India.Earlier in the day, MEA Spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said the Indian High Commissioner conveyed to the Singapore government that the Delhi chief minister has no competence to comment on COVID variants concerns over the condition of subordinate judiciary’s judicial officers who are at risk of contracting Covid-19 owing to the nature of duties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-from-singapore-court-tells-delhi-govt-on-next-covid-19-wave-101621424687523.html
19-05-2021||India||Singularly focused on Covid relief activities: Congress||About 100 activists of the Indian Youth Congress (IYC) have been working round the clock in the national Capital monitoring the availability of beds in hospitals while a smaller group manages a Covid control room that receives calls from people looking for help.IYC’s central office on New Delhi’s Raisina Road has, for the past 14 months, been the nerve centre of wide-ranging relief activities amid the pandemic. From mask and sanitiser distribution in the early days of Covid-19 in 2020, the activists are now involved in the daily struggle for getting hospital beds, oxygen cylinders and plasma since the second wave of the pandemic hit the country and overwhelmed its health infrastructure.Also Read | BJP leader names ‘author’ of Congress ‘toolkit’“We have a dedicated team of workers who track the availability of beds and when someone calls us for admission to hospitals, we try to send them to hospitals where beds are available. While the bigger hospitals are entirely occupied, we often locate beds in smaller hospitals,” said Srinivas BV, the president of the IYC, who was among the nine politicians questioned by the Delhi police for allegedly hoarding oxygen cylinders and medicines.Congress functionaries said they are now singularly focused on Covid relief activities as no elections are round the corner. The party has sought donations from resourceful leaders and asked its lawmakers to provide at least two ambulances in their areas. The party has also formed Covid-19 control rooms across the country.A committee, headed by former Union health minister Ghulam Nabi Azad, has held at least four meetings to discuss the Covid situation.The Youth Congress has been equipped with five ambulances and three hearses. “Ambulances were quoting exorbitant amounts to ferry patients. That is why we decided to have our own ambulances,” said Srinivas.The funds for the relief measures are coming from states such as Punjab, Chhattisgarh and Karnataka, the functionaries said. “The state Congress committees are raising resources themselves. We know for sure Karnataka, Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh, Punjab, Telangana, Kerala and Jharkhand are doing it themselves,” said a Congress leader.The party has its main Covid control room on New Delhi’s Gurdwara Rakabganj Road. It has asked its state units to established state command centres for relief works.The IYC has asked all its members to donate money for the cause. “Many of our members have also donated blood,” said Srinivas.The Congress’s relief works are not entirely without their share of problems. “Sometimes, people demand that we get them admitted to big, south Delhi hospitals. We tell them, not possible but they refuse to listen,” said Srinivas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/singularly-focused-on-covid-relief-activitiescongress-101621424672295.html
19-05-2021||India||MK Stalin launches direct sale of Remdesivir to private hospitals||Chief minister M K Stalin launched the direct sale of anti-viral Remdesivir to private hospitals here on Wednesday and 960 vials of the medicine was given to representatives of 25 health facilities. As many as 343 hospitals have registered themselves in the state portal, tnmsc.tn.gov.in, days after the government said information on Covid-19 patients on oxygen support, who require Remdesivir, should be uploaded for supply of the drug, an official release here said.Hospitals that have provided information on patients who need the medicine were 151 and Remdesivir was being allotted to such facilities. On May 16, the government had said Remdesivir would be made available directly to private hospitals to avoid overcrowding in places designated for its prescription based sale by state authorities to the kin of coronavirus patients. The state-run Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation supplies the drug to government hospials. Stalin launched the direct sale of the drug to hospitals at the Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium sale centre here and in the first phase, 960 vials of Remdesivir have been given to 25 hospitals. The drug would be provided to hospitals located in several regions of Tamil Nadu through the sale depots in Chennai, Madurai, Coimbatore, Salem, Tiruchirappalli and Tirunelveli, the release added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mk-stalin-launches-direct-sale-of-remdesivir-to-private-hospitals-101621424263136.html
19-05-2021||India||Narada sting case: No bail yet for 3 Trinamool MLAs, former Bengal minister||The four Bengal heavyweight Bengal politicians, who were on Tuesday arrested by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) in the 2016 Narada sting operation case, will remain have to be in judicial custody on Wednesday after the Calcutta high court adjourned the hearing in the case till 2pm on Thursday.The court was hearing the pleas of two sitting ministers of Mamata Banerjee-led West Bengal government, Firhad Hakim and Subrata Mukherjee, Trinamool Congress legislator Madan Mitra and former MLA Sovan Chatterjee in the case.A special court had on Monday granted interim bail to the four leaders hours after the CBI detained them. But hours later the Calcutta high court stayed the interim bail and sent them to judicial custody after the central probe agency challenged the order of the lower court.The case pertains to a sting operation by journalist Mathew Samuel in 2014, where he posed as a businessman and offered between ₹4 and 5 lakh to the then TMC Rajya Sabha MP Mukul Roy, the then Lok Sabha MPs Saugata Roy, Aparupa Poddar, Sultan Ahmed, Prasun Banerjee and Kakoli Ghosh Dastidar; the then ministers Firhad Hakim, Suvendu Adhikari, Sovan Chatterjee (who was also the Kolkata mayor) Subrata Mukherjee and Madan Mitra.ALSO READ: Videos, witnesses in Narada case show 4 TMC leaders took cash: CBI sleuthsIn the video, that surfaced two years later in March 2016, shortly before the assembly elections in the state, the leaders were purportedly seen accepting cash from the representative of a fictitious company in exchange for doling out favours to them.The then MLA Iqbal Ahmed and IPS officer Saiyaad Mustafa Hussain Mirza were also caught on camera. Among these people, Mukul Roy could not been seen in the videos accepting the cash directly but the money was purportedly taken by Mirza, according to Mathew.Mukul Roy and Suvendu Adhikari has joined the Bharatiya Janata Party, meanwhile. Sovan Chatterjee also joined the BJP prior to the assembly polls but left the party following differences with the leadership.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/narada-sting-case-no-bail-for-3-trinamool-mlas-former-bengal-minister-101621423329182.html
19-05-2021||India||BJP leader names ‘author’ of Congress ‘toolkit’||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Sambit Patra on Wednesday named Saumya Varma as the author of the toolkit, a social media campaign playbook, that his party said on Tuesday was prepared by the Congress to defame Prime Minister Narendra Modi and to build a biased narrative over the Indian government’s handling of the second wave of Covid-19 , and the Central Vista Project.The Congress accused Patra of naming the author of a real document (from its metadata) to claim that she also authored the fake documents. It reiterated that the document on Central Vista was genuine, but that the BJP had concocted the other one on Covid-19 to defame the Congress. “...We made a research note on Central Vista for the party It’s genuine and fact-based. I tweeted yesterday [Tuesday] that ‘Covid-19 toolkit’ is forged and is a `Made in BJP’ product. Patra is showing metadata/author of a real document and attributing it to a fake,” said Rajeev Gowda, the head of Congress’s Research Department.Also Watch | Politics amid pandemic: Why India cannot afford BJP Vs Congress ‘toolkit’ warCongress leaders said Varma is part of the Congress’s Research Cell and that she is not a worker or a member of the party but one of the many professionals engaged by it. She draws a monthly salary from the party, they added. “After 2019, the research team was truncated just as many other branches of the Congress. Varma and few others are running the research team,” one Congress leader said on condition of anonymity. The party refused to give her contact details. Gowda said: “You question me. Do not question my staff.” BJP leaders on Tuesday cited and shared a document circulating on social media. The document was on a letterhead of the All India Congress Committee’s Research Department . The Congrss has said this letterhead is forged. The document asked its readers to tarnish Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s image and “erode his popularity”. It suggested using phrases such as “Indian strain” and “Modi strain” for the variants of Covid-19 that were first detected in the country. The document also spoke about briefing foreign journalists over India’s mismanagement of the second wave of the pandemic.The Congress maintained the document on Covid is fake and has been concocted and lodged a complaint of forgery and cybercrime with the Delhi Police. It said in its complaint, filed by Gowda that BJP president JP Nadda, spokesperson Sambit Patra, and Union minister Smriti Irani, among others, “shared forged” documents on Twitter. HAS THE POLICE REGISTERED A COMPLAINT?||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-leader-names-author-of-congress-toolkit-101621423591947.html
19-05-2021||India||News updates from HT: India makes first move on trade agreement with EU and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.India makes the first move on trade and investment agreement with EUUnion commerce and industry minister Piyush Goyal has written to his counterpart Valdis Dombrovskis last week to initiate the process for resumption of trade and investment negotiations following a decision in this regard arrived at the India-EU Leaders' Summit on May 8. Read moreWhen to take Covid vaccine after recovery? After 3 months, says CentreThose who have been infected by Covid-19 can take their vaccines three months after the recovery, the Centre said on Wednesday as it accepted the recommendations of the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19. Read moreGovt asks WhatsApp to withdraw privacy policyThe government has again asked WhatsApp to withdraw its new privacy policy as it undermines “informational privacy, data security, and user choice” while warning the mobile messaging service provider it will take necessary steps in consonance with the Indian law if satisfactory action was not taken. Read moreDelhi Covid-19 cases fall to 3.8K first time after April 5, positivity rate below 6%After an interval of 45 days, Delhi on Wednesday saw a sharp dip in Covid-19 cases after 3,846 fresh cases were recorded, pushing the cumulative tally to 1,406,719, officials said. Read moreMS came running, pulled him and said 'just go bowl bro': Uthappa narrates incident between Dhoni, Sreesanth, AustraliaRobin Uthappa has revealed a hilarious incident featuring S Sreesanth, MS Dhoni and the Australia cricket team, narrating how the former India captain was good a managing the fast bowler from Kerala. Read moreKangana Ranaut shares message as celebs raise funds for Covid-19 relief: 'Don't beg from poor if you are rich'A day after testing negative for Covid-19, actor Kangana Ranaut on Wednesday shared 'lessons from the pandemic'. Taking to Instagram Stories, she penned down several points marking it her 'thought of the day' that 'might be complex or too evolved for few'. Read moreRoyal Enfield recalls over 2.36 lakh motorcycles over defective ignition coilRoyal Enfield on Wednesday announced a recall of its bikes including Meteor, Classic, and Bullet over a defective ignition coil. The recall affects close to 2,36,966 units of motorcycles. Read moreSummer Salad or Sweet Potato Rosti: Pick your immunity booster recipeEating a healthy diet of whole grain cereals, fruits, vegetables, legumes and nuts, low fat dairy products, lean meat and fish and low salt is important especially in current times of Covid-19 pandemic when one’s immunity system is always on the radar of the virus. Read morePolitics amid pandemic: Why India cannot afford BJP Vs Congress ‘toolkit’ warWhile the country continues to face the brunt of the Covid second wave, politicians continue to bicker and politicise the pandemic. In the latest, BJP leader Sambit Patra shared screenshots of the alleged toolkit on a Congress letterhead. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-india-makes-first-move-on-trade-and-investment-agreement-with-eu-and-all-the-latest-news-101621422780158.html
19-05-2021||India||From Jaishankar to Singapore minister Vivian Balakrishnan: Who said what on Kejriwal's Covid variant claim||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday stirred up a hornet's nest as he said a new strain of coronavirus has been found in Singapore, which is very dangerous for children. He also urged the Centre to immediately cancel all air services with Singapore. The claim triggered reactions from Union ministers, the Singapore government as well as Singapore people.Here is who said what contributing to the ongoing controversy.Union civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri said India does not have an air bubble with Singapore and so all international flights between India and Singapore are already suspended. Only flights under Vande Bharat are operational.Niti Aayog (health) member VK Paul said experts are looking into the issue.Singapore's health ministry said there is no Singapore variant. The strain is B.1.617.2, which "originated" in India.Spokesperson of the ministry of external affairs Arindam Bagchi said Delhi's chief minister does not speak for India. Bagchi said the Singapore government called in Indian High Commissioner to convey the government's objection to Kejriwal's claim of 'Singapore variant'. "High Commissioner clarified that Delhi CM had no competence to pronounce on Covid variants or civil aviation policy," Bagchi tweeted.Singapore's foreign minister Vivian Balakrishnan, in his reaction to Kejriwal's claim, said politicians should stick to facts.Watch: Modi govt Vs Kejriwal govt over ‘Singapore strain’ of Covid l Who said whatForeign minister S Jaishankar termed Kejriwal's comments as "irresponsible" without naming him and said he should know better that such comments can damage long-standing partnerships between India and Singapore in the fight against Covid-19. He also mentioned Singapore's role as a logistics hum and oxygen supplier thanking Singapore for deploying military aircraft in India's need.Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia slammed the Centre for shifting the focus from an impending third wave likely to impact children to foreign policy. "Had the foreign ministry been as quick to get vaccines from other countries as it was in reacting to Kejriwal's statement, the children of the country would have got vaccines," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/from-jaishankar-to-singapore-fm-who-said-what-on-kejriwal-s-covid-variant-claim-101621421102238.html
19-05-2021||India||Assam promises 100% free power to new oxygen plants to prepare for Covid crisis||The Assam government on Wednesday decided to provide 100% free power supply to new oxygen plants set up in the state to avoid a possible crisis in oxygen supply to Covid-19 patients. The second cabinet meeting of the new government also decided to give 100% free power supply to closed oxygen plants that wanted to resume operations and to the new units of existing plants. “All existing oxygen plants will be given 20% free power. All these decisions would come into effect from 1st January 2021, but financial implications will be from 1st April 2021,” chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma tweeted. Assam reported 73 Covid-19 fatalities on Tuesday taking the death toll to 2,344, while 5,835 new cases pushed the tally to 340,858, the National Health Mission (NHM) said. Currently, the state has a total of 46,393 active cases, it added. All the states in the country have been augmenting medical oxygen supplies to meet its demand to treat a record number of Covid-19 infections during the ongoing second wave of the disease.At present Assam has a daily requirement of nearly 20 MT (metric tonne) of oxygen. The state’s production capacity is around 84.5 MT daily. Assam is giving 16 MT of oxygen daily to Meghalaya to meet the neighbouring state’s requirements. On Wednesday, the cabinet decided that the chief executive members of the Bodoland Territorial Region (BTR) and the Karbi Anglong and Dima Hasao autonomous district councils will be accorded the status of cabinet ministers. It was also decided to appoint Debojit Saikia as the new advocate general of the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-promises-100-free-power-to-new-oxygen-plants-to-prepare-for-covid-crisis-101621420337585.html
19-05-2021||India||Assam tea industry looks at major crop loss now due to poor rainfall||Assam’s tea industry, which has still not recovered from last year’s Covid-19 lockdown, may now witness 40% crop deficit in the first five months of this year due to poor rainfall across the state, says a study. The study by North Eastern Tea Association (NETA), an organisation of tea producers, says the crop deficit from January to May this year will be about 60 million kgs, or about 40%, in comparison to that of the same period in 2019. “We have not compared crop figures with 2020 because last year, the crop deficit from January to May was 78 million kgs due to Covid lockdown,” said NETA advisor Bidyananda Barkakoty. While in 2019, the annual tea production in Assam was 716.49 million kgs, it was down to 618.20 million kgs in 2020, a 14% drop owing largely to the lockdown.According to NETA, the average rainfall deficit is about 45% between January and April this year in comparison to that of the same period last year in the main tea growing districts of Assam. Even in 2019, the state did not report poor rainfall. “Nowadays, rainfall is highly localised and there is a difference in the quantum of rainfall within few kilometres of distance. The study assessed crop loss due to the impact of prolonged drought-like situation. It took into account rainfall received in the last few days,” said Barkakoty. Also Read | Assam professor arrested for raping minor, abetting her death by ‘suicide’Assam produces more than half of India’s total tea output. The state’s average annual tea production is between 630-700 million kg. “Tea industry of Assam is facing tough times again this year. This year, a severe deficit of rainfall in the early part of the season has wreaked havoc in tea production,” said NETA chairman Sunil Jallan. “Extreme weather fluctuations, both in terms of temperature and rainfall, have impacted growth of tea leaves severely. Temperature drop from 34 to 19 degrees centigrade (°C), coupled with hardly any sunshine for the last one week, is playing havoc with the crop,” said Mrigendra Jalan, adviser, Bharatiya Cha Parishad . The second wave of Covid-19 has also affected several tea gardens in Assam. Earlier this month, three gardens in Tinsukia and Biswanath districts were declared containment zones after over 300 Covid cases were detected there. Last week, the state government announced a set of SOPs for management of Covid in tea gardens.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-tea-industry-looks-at-major-crop-loss-now-due-to-poor-rainfall-101621420217741.html
19-05-2021||India||Defence ministry clears the BRO tunnel under Shinkun La in Ladakh||Cutting through the red-tape, the Union defence ministry has decided to ask the Border Roads Organisation (BRO) to build a 4.25-kilometre tunnel under the 5,091-metre-high Shinkun La pass to make an all-weather axis from Manali to Leh via Darcha-Padun-Nimmu alignment to supply Indian Army formations in Ladakh sector. The snow-free axis is expected to be completed by 2024.According to South Block officials, defence minister Rajnath Singh and top officials decided in favour of the BRO proposal instead of National Highways and Infrastructure Development Corporation Limited (NHIDCL), which was recommending an altogether new road alignment with a 13.5km tunnel under Shinkun La.ALSO READ: One year after Galwan clash, defence ministry to decide on Shinkun La tunnel“Both BRO and NHIDCL made presentations before the minister in March 2021. After studying both the proposals, the defence ministry has decided in favour of shorter tunnel. The decision could not be put on the paper as a number of senior officials involved in this project were hit by Covid-19 infection,” said a top official. The NHIDCL has been preparing detailed project report of the project since 2017, much before the Chinese Army transgressed into Ladakh in May 2020.It is understood that the total cost of the BRO tunnel construction will be around ₹1,000 crore due to simple design and requirement of basic electromechanical fittings. The 4.25km tunnel will have longitudinal ventilation using banana fans, which require minimum electricity and operational costs.The Darcha-Padum-Nimmu road is 297-kilometre long with 100km already converted into double lane and black-topped by the BRO last year at the height of India-China border skirmish. While the distance between Manali and Leh will remain the same with the new road, the axis will remain totally snow-free round the year allowing movement of both troops and equipment to feed Ladakh, Kargil and Siachen sectors.ALSO READ: The Galwan Valley face-off explained through 17 news reportsThe present Manali-Sarchu-Upshi-Leh road goes over four high mountain passes of around 5,000-metre in height even after construction of Atal tunnel under Rohtang pass and remains snowed for at least two to three months during winter.The four passes on present Manali-Leh route are: Baralacha La (16500 feet), Nakee La (15547 feet), Lachung La (16616 feet) and Tanglang La (17480 feet).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/defence-ministry-clears-the-bro-tunnel-under-shinkun-la-in-ladakh-101621414374031.html
19-05-2021||India||Govt asks WhatsApp to withdraw privacy policy||The government has again asked WhatsApp to withdraw its new privacy policy as it undermines “informational privacy, data security, and user choice” while warning the mobile messaging service provider it will take necessary steps in consonance with the Indian law if satisfactory action was not taken.In a notice issued on Tuesday, the government said the policy’s deferral beyond May 15 does not absolve WhatsApp from respecting values of informational privacy and data security. The company has been given seven days to respond.The contentious policy includes mandatory sharing of data with WhatsApp’s parent company Facebook and proposes to take away the choice for users to opt-out of it. It triggered a backlash and boycott calls over the concerns about data security. Many users moved to other messaging applications such as Signal and Telegram and prompted WhatsApp on January 16 to delay the introduction of the changes.Also Read | Users not accepting privacy terms to face limited functionality: WhatsAppIn the notice, the ministry of electronics and information technology said WhatsApp was treating users in India and Europe differently. “...many Indian citizens depend on WhatsApp to communicate in everyday life. It is not just problematic, but also irresponsible, for WhatsApp to leverage this position to impose unfair terms and conditions on Indian users, particularly those that discriminate against Indian users vis-à-vis users in Europe.”The notice said the policy violates several provisions of the Indian laws and rules.It added it undermines “the sacrosanct values of informational privacy, data security and user choice for Indian users and harms the rights and interests of Indian citizens”.India is Facebook-owned WhatsApp’s biggest market with about 400 million users.WhatsApp on Friday last said that its users will not lose functionality on May 15 if they do not agree to the policy as it confirmed that it had pushed back its deadline for its roll-out. The policy was initially meant to leave people with no option but to agree with the policy if they wanted to keep using the app.The confirmation came amid reports that indicated the company could gradually put some functionality out of users’ reach, before eventually leaving users with no choice but to delete the app. The company said a majority of users have approved the update as it reiterated it does not impact the privacy of personal messages.The Guardian on Friday last reported WhatsApp users will be unable to dismiss the screen asking them to accept the new terms beginning May 15. It said the users will still be able to receive calls and reply to messages through notifications. “In time, however, even that will be disabled, leaving users with no choice but to accept the new rules, or delete their accounts entirely.”An official, requesting anonymity, said WhatsApp earlier claimed that it officially deferred its new privacy policy beyond May 15. “However, the ministry, in its communication, today [Tuesday] stated that deferral of the privacy policy...does not absolve WhatsApp from respecting the values of informational privacy, data security and user choice for Indian users,” said the official. The official cited the government’s sovereign responsibility to protect the rights and interests of Indian citizens and added it will consider options available under the laws in India.In a letter dated January 18 to WhatsApp chief executive officer Will Cathcart, the government earlier said the proposed changes to the privacy policy “raise grave concerns regarding the implications for the choice and autonomy of Indian citizens”. The policy has also been challenged in the Delhi high court.HT reached out to WhatsApp for a response to the ministry’s notice but did not receive one immediately.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-asks-whatsapp-to-withdraw-privacy-policy-101621418658055.html
19-05-2021||India||Delhi Covid-19 cases fall to 3.8K first time after April 5, positivity rate below 6%||After an interval of 45 days, Delhi on Wednesday saw a sharp dip in Covid-19 cases after 3,846 fresh cases were recorded, pushing the cumulative tally to 1,406,719, officials said. The city-state recorded 235 deaths in the last 24 hours, according to the health bulletin released by authorities.A total of 22,346 people have succumbed to the viral infection in Delhi so far, according to the official data.The national capital has recorded cases less than 4,000 for the first time after Apri 5.Inching closer to the comparatively safer limit prescribed by World Health Organization (WHO) to consider the disease spread to be under control, the positivity rate dipped to 5.78% on Wednesday. WHO states that the positivity rate needs to come down below 5% for the outbreak to be considered under control.The test positivity rate in Delhi of the deadly viral disease reached a peak of 36.2% on April 22, and stayed above 30% for eight more days before starting to decline.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-covid-19-cases-fall-to-3-8k-first-time-after-april-5-positivity-rate-dips-101621418422677.html
19-05-2021||India||Light to moderate rainfall to continue over Delhi-NCR for a few hours: IMD||The Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) on Wednesday said that Delhi and the NCR region, including Badurgarh, Gurugram, Faridabad, Ballabhgarh, Noida, will continue to receive light to moderate intensity rain with gusty winds blowing at the speed of 30-40 km/hour. The same weather condition will also continue to occur over Panipat, Karnal, Kaithal, Kurukshetra in Haryana, predicted the IMD."Light to moderate intensity rain and gusty winds with speed of 30-40 Km/h would continue to occur over and adjoining areas of entire Delhi & NCR (Badurgarh, Gurugram, Faridabad, Ballabhgarh, Noida) Panipat, Karnal, Kaithal, Kurukshetra," the weather department said in a tweet.Also read: Cyclone Yaas to form around May 25, head towards West Bengal, Odisha coastsThe department also issued an orange alert for the national capital as it predicted 'heavy to very heavy rainfall' in isolated parts with gusty winds at the speed of 60 km per hour. The department warned of traffic disruption, waterlogging in low-lying areas and uprooting of small plants due to the weather change.Other parts of Harayana that might receive rainfall for the next two hours include Gannaur, Sonipat, Gohana, Kharkhoda, Hissar, Meham, Rohtak, Siwani, Bhiwani, Jhajjar, Narnaul, Mahendargarh, Kosali, Charkhi Dadri, Mattanhail, Farukhnagar, Bawal, Rewari, Nuh, Sohana, Hodal, Aurangabad, Palwal, according to the department.Light to moderate intensity rain to continue to occur over these parts of Uttar Pradesh--Meerut, Rampur, Moradabad, Shamli, Sambhal, Amroha, Siyana, Chandausi, Agra, Muzaffarnagar, Bijnor, Mathura, Raya, Barsana, Nandgaon, etc, and in these parts of Rajasthan--Viratnagar, Kotputli, Khairthal, Bhiwari, Mahandipur Balaji, Mahawa, Nadbai, Nagaur, Alwar, Bharatpur, Deeg during next 2 hours, as per the IMD.Muzaffarnagar, Bijnor, Mathura, Raya, Barsana, Nandgaon (U.P.) Viratnagar, Kotputli, Khairthal, Bhiwari, Mahandipur Balaji, Mahawa, Nadbai, Nagaur, Alwar, Bharatpur, Deeg (Rajasthan) during next 2 hours. pic.twitter.com/3PiTETN5grAlso read: Rain, thunderstorm likely across NW India; downpour warning for U’khandRainfall below 15mm is considered to be light, between 15 and 64.5 mm, it is moderate, between 64.5 mm and 115.5 mm rainfall is heavy, 115.6 mm to 204.4 mm is very heavy and anything recorded above 204.4 mm is extremely heavy.The rainfall and strong winds also improved the Capital's air quality to 'satisfactory' on Tuesday. This happened for the first time since last year in September, as per the Central Pollution Control Board data, reported PTI.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/light-to-moderate-rainfall-to-continue-over-delhi-ncr-for-a-few-hours-imd-101621415218778.html
19-05-2021||India||Centre to supply over 5 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses to states and UTs free of cost||The Centre announced on Wednesday that a total of 5,86,29,000 doses of Covid-19 vaccines, Covishield and Covaxin, will be supplied to states free-of-cost from May 1 to June 15. States can also buy 4,87,55,000 doses directly from manufacturers till the end of June 2021, under the Liberalised Pricing and Accelerated National Covid-19 vaccination strategy.“A total of 5 crore 86 lakh and 29 thousand doses will be provided free of cost by the government to states from 1st May 2021 to 15th June 2021,” the government said in a press release.“In addition, as per information received from vaccine manufacturers, a total of 4 crore, 87 lakh and 55 thousand doses will also be available till end of June 2021 for direct procurement by states/UTs,” it added.India began implementing the liberalised pricing and accelerated national Covid-19 vaccination strategy from May 1, wherein 50% of the available doses of Central Drugs Laboratory (CDL) cleared vaccines are supplied to states and Union territories free of cost via government of India channels. The allocation is based on consumption pattern and beneficiary load. For the remaining 50% states and union territories have to procure directly from the vaccine manufacturers.The Union health ministry has asked the states and Union territories to prepare a vaccination centre-wise plan for effective administration of the vaccines, and make use of multiple media platforms for disseminating useful vaccine-related information to the masses. All vaccination centres have also been directed to publish their vaccination schedule on the Co-Win platform.States and Union territories have also been urged to prepare advanced plans for vaccination till June 15. Prime Minister Narendra Modi told officials on Tuesday that the Centre will provide information on vaccine availability 15 days in advance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-to-supply-over-5-crore-covid-19-vaccine-doses-to-states-and-uts-free-of-cost-101621416673115.html
19-05-2021||India||IPS officer charge sheeted for sexually assaulting colleague’s daughter in Assam||The Assam police have charge-sheeted an Indian Police Service (IPS) officer for allegedly sexually harassing and assaulting a colleague’s 14-year-old daughter. “The charge sheet was filed after investigation and evidence revealed [Gaurav] Upadhyay’s involvement in the case. The allegations against him have been established,” said criminal investigation department (CID) deputy superintendent Pradip Kumar Das.The charge sheet, under Indian Penal Code’s Sections 354, 354 A (assault or criminal force to outrage modesty, sexual harassment) and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, was filed in March but its details were earlier unavailable. The trial in the case is yet to begin.Upadhyay, a 2012 batch IPS officer from Uttar Pradesh, was Karbi Anglong police superintendent when he allegedly sexually assaulted the girl in December 2019. He was transferred to Chirang last week as part of mass transfers of police officers after the new government took office this month.Also Read | Assam professor arrested for raping minor, abetting her death by ‘suicide’According to the charge sheet, the girl’s mother, a senior police officer, had gone to Diphu, headquarters of Karbi Anglong, along with her daughter and nine-year-old son in December 2019 to attend the birthday party of Upadhyay’s son. After the party, Upadhyay took the senior officer and her children to show them his office building near his official residence. Upadhyay allegedly forcibly kissed the girl on her lips twice in presence of her brother when their mother excused herself to go to the washroom.Around 2.30am, Upadhyay dropped the three at a hotel where he had booked a suite for them. Upadhyay allegedly touched the girl inappropriately on the pretext of showing her a video on his mobile phone in the sitting room of the suite while her brother and mother were in the bedroom. Upadhyay tried to kiss the girl, but she rushed to the bedroom and closed the door. He apologised for his behaviour when the mother confronted him over it the following day after coming to know about it.The mother filed a case on January 3, 2020, at a women police station in Guwahati before the case was transferred to the CID. “During the investigation, sufficient evidence has been found to prove that the accused police officer...committed aggravated sexual assault. The accused person used criminal force on the minor victim girl to outrage her modesty, sexually harassed her... ,” said the charge sheet, a copy of which HT has seen. It has cited a psychiatrist’s report saying the girl suffered from depression and anxiety as a result of the “mentally traumatic experience”.Upadhyay was unavailable for comments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ips-officer-charge-sheeted-for-sexually-assaulting-colleague-s-daughter-in-assam-101621416737517.html
19-05-2021||India||Nitin Gadkari says he was 'unaware', a day after his vaccine ramp-up suggestions||Union minister Nitin Gadkari on Wednesday said he was not aware that the government already spelt out the vaccination ramp-up plan in which different vaccine makers are being invited to boost the manufacturing. This comes a day after the minister, in a video address on Tuesday, suggested that more companies should be given the licence to manufacture the vaccine. The Union minister's comment met criticism as Congress leader Jairam Ramesh said this suggestion was given by Dr Manmohan Singh. "But is his Boss listening?" the Congress leader said in an apparent jibe to Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Not only Dr Manmohan Singh, but several chief ministers also suggested this knowledge sharing to increase India's vaccine production.I was unaware that his ministry has started these efforts before I had given suggestion yesterday. I am glad and congratulate he and his team for this timely intervention in the right direction. I feel important to put this on record."If the demand for vaccine is more than the supply, it creates the problem. So, instead of one company, let 10 more companies be given the license to manufacture the vaccine," Gadkari said. This is something the government has already started doing as three public sector undertakings — Hyderabad's Indian Immunologicals Limited, Uttar Pradesh's Bharat Immunologicals and Biologicals Corporation and Mumbai's Haffkine Institute for Training — will start manufacturing Covaxin.But is his Boss listening? This is what Dr. Manmohan Singh had suggested on April 18th. https://t.co/iqgPgJJ6Y7Gadkari on Wednesday took to Twitter and admitted that he was "unaware" that efforts have started towards ramping up vaccine production before he gave his suggestion on Tuesday."Yesterday while participating at the conference organised by Swadeshi Jagaran Manch, I had made a suggestion to ramp up vaccine production. I was unaware that before my speech Minister for Chemical & Fertilizers Shri @mansukhmandviya had explained government’s efforts to ramp up vaccine production. After conference, he also informed me that, GoI is already facilitating vaccine manufacturing by 12 different plants/companies and rapid ramp up of production is expected in near future as a result of these efforts," Gadkari wrote on Twitter.The Centre has recently decided to allow more pharma companies to take up vaccine production. Defending that the idea to rope in more pharmacies was not an overnight decision, prompted by the suggestions of state chief ministers and opposition leaders, Niti Aayog (health) member VK Paul recently said that such complicated knowledge transfer does not take place in a week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nitin-gadkari-says-he-was-unaware-a-day-after-his-vaccine-ramp-up-suggestions-101621415897281.html
19-05-2021||India||Centre concerned only about global image: Delhi govt on Singapore controversy||Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Wednesday said the Central government and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) are only concerned about their image globally and not about the well-being of the country’s children. His comment came a day after a tweet by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on suspending flights between India and Singapore sparked controversy over a particular strain of Covid-19. Addressing a press conference on Wednesday, Sisodia said it is only Kejriwal who is worried about the risk of children contracting the infection and not the Central government. “Yesterday, Delhi CM Kejriwal had talked about the Covid-19 situation in Singapore. He had said that the danger of Covid-19 infecting more children is increasing. That is what it looks like going by the strain there, which is why it is necessary that we also remain alert... Singapore’s education minister had also given a statement that the risk of children getting infected is increasing. But, today BJP has started dirty politics on the issue,” he said. Kejriwal on Tuesday had talked about two things, Sisodia said. One, about the strain in Singapore and two, about children. “Today, from what the Central government and the BJP are saying, it has become clear that Kejriwal is worried about the children of our country. But, the BJP and the Central government are only concerned about Singapore. They won’t get vaccines for children, but they are worrying about Singapore,” he said. Also Read | No new Covid strain detected here, Singapore health ministry counters Kejriwal“A few months back, a new strain was detected in London as well. Despite several warnings, the Central government did not take necessary actions or measures in time because of which India is now reeling under such a terrible situation. Today, the entire country is suffering because of the Central government’s negligence. Thousands have died,” Sisodia said. “From scientists to even the Supreme Court is saying that children are in danger because of this strain of virus. They have warned that whatever the next strain is, it could affect children on a large scale leading to a potential third wave. But, we are not understanding this. The issue is not Singapore, the issue is the children of our country. Parents in India are worried about their children and not about India’s image before Singapore. They (Central government) sold vaccines meant for our children to other countries only to feel happy about a poster that was put up there. They are not worried about the children. The BJP and the Centre can keep worrying about their image across the world, but we will keep worrying about our children,” the deputy chief minister said. Kejriwal’s remarks about a new coronavirus strain allegedly being detected in Singapore triggered a diplomatic spat on Wednesday, with the Southeast Asian country calling in the Indian envoy to lodge an objection.Indian high commissioner P Kumaran clarified Kejriwal had “no competence” to comment on Covid-19 variants, external affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said in a tweet. External affairs minister S Jaishankar described Kejriwal’s remarks as “irresponsible” and said the chief minister didn’t speak for India.It is rare for the external affairs ministry to acknowledge that an Indian envoy has been called in by the government of another country to lodge a protest, and also to publicly criticise an elected Indian official.Hours after Kejriwal tweeted on Tuesday about the alleged new coronavirus strain in Singapore and asked the Centre to immediately suspend flights from that country, Singapore’s health ministry dismissed his assertions and said the variant prevalent in many Covid-19 cases in recent weeks was the “B.1.617.2 variant, which originated in India”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-concerned-only-about-global-image-delhi-govt-on-singapore-controversy-101621415957443.html
19-05-2021||India||Cyclone Yaas to form around May 25, head towards West Bengal, Odisha coasts||Cyclone Yaas is likely to form over Bay of Bengal around May 25, according to India Meteorological Department (IMD). Then, it is likely to move northwestwards and reach West Bengal and adjoining Odisha coasts on May 26 evening.Atmospheric and oceanic conditions, like conducive environment for convection, and sea surface temperatures, are also remaining favourable for persistent cloudiness over Andaman Sea and the adjoining areas of east-central and southeast Bay of Bengal around May 22. A low pressure area is very likely to form over north Andaman Sea and the adjoining east-central Bay of BengalIt is very likely to intensify gradually into a cyclonic storm during the subsequent 72 hours and move northwestwards and reach the West Bengal-Odisha coasts around May 26 evening. Light to moderate rainfall at most places with heavy to very heavy falls at isolated places over Andaman and Nicobar Islands is likely on May 22 and 23. Light to moderate rainfall at most places with heavy falls at isolated places very likely to commence from May 25 evening with significant increase in spatial extension and intensity subsequently over Odisha – West Bengal, adjoining Assam and Meghalaya.Also Read | PM Modi reaches Gujarat to review damage caused by Cyclone TauktaeSqually wind speed reaching 45–55 kmph gusting to 65 kmph is likely to prevail over Andaman Sea and adjoining eastcentral Bay of Bengal on May 23. It is very likely to increase becoming 50–60 kmph gusting to 70 kmph from May 23 and further becoming gale wind speed during May 24 and 26 over major parts of central Bay of Bengal and into north Bay of Bengal and along & off Odisha - West Bengal -Bangladesh coasts during May 25 to 27.Also Watch | Cyclone Tauktae: Indian Navy rescues more crew members from sunken bargeSea condition will be rough to very rough over southeast Bay of Bengal and south Andaman Sea from May 21 onwards. Sea conditions will be rough to very rough over Andaman Sea and the adjoining eastcentral Bay of Bengal on May 23, high (wave height of 6-9 metres/ wind speed 34-47 knots) and high to very high (wave height of 9-14 metres/wind speed of 38-63) from May 24 to 26, into north Bay of Bengal and along and off Odisha -West Bengal coasts during May 25 to 27.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-yaas-to-form-around-may-25-head-towards-west-bengal-odisha-coasts-101621415117392.html
19-05-2021||India||Cyclone Tauktae: PM Modi conducts aerial survey of damage in Gujarat, Diu||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday took stock of areas affected by cyclone Tauktae in Gujarat and Diu via an aerial survey, including areas like Una, Diu, Jafarabad, and Mahuva. PM Modi will also hold a review meeting today in Ahmedabad.The prime minister reached Bhavnagar in Gujarat to review the situation and damage caused by Cyclone Tauktae and was received by Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani at the airport, who informed that PM Modi will conduct an aerial survey of the areas of districts hit by the cyclone.#WATCH | Prime Minister Narendra Modi conducts an aerial survey of the #CycloneTauktae affected areas of Gujarat and DiuThe PM is conducting an aerial survey of areas such as Una, Diu, Jafarabad, and Mahuva today. He will also hold a review meeting in Ahmedabad later. pic.twitter.com/B3C4qamBwp"He will conduct an aerial survey of the areas of Amreli, Gir Somnath, and Bhavnagar districts hit by Cyclone Tauktae," Rupani tweeted.Read latest updates on Cyclone Tauktae herePrime Minister Modi is also scheduled to visit Diu today to review damage caused by the cyclone.On Tuesday, the Gujarat CMO informed that after the aerial survey the PM will hold a review meeting at Ahmedabad."PM Narendra Modi will visit Gujarat on Wednesday to conduct an aerial survey of the areas of Amreli, Gir Somnath and Bhavnagar districts hit by Cyclone Tauktae. The PM will also hold a review meeting with CM Vijay Rupani and top officials of the State later in Ahmedabad", Gujarat CMO as well in a tweet.The cyclone, which made landfall between Diu and Una town of Gir-Somnath district on Monday night, caused major property damage and also uprooted trees in that region.Thirteen people were killed in Gujarat as cyclone Tauktae pummelled parts of the state and left behind a trail of destruction along the coast, uprooting electric poles, trees and damaging thousands of houses and roads.In what was one of the worst cyclones faced by the state, Tauktae triggered heavy rains in many parts from Saurashtra coast to North Gujarat with 46 talukas receiving over 100 mm of downpour, while 12 of them recorded 150 mm to 175 mm of rains.Also read | Cyclone Tauktae: Indian Navy recovers 14 bodies from Arabian Sea so farTauktae, characterised as an extremely severe cyclonic storm on Monday, has now weakened into a depression and lay centred over south Rajasthan and adjoining Gujarat region on Wednesday morning, the India Meteorological Department said.Over 16,000 houses were damaged, more than 40,000 trees and over 70,000 electric poles uprooted, while 5,951 villages faced total power blackout due to the cyclonic storm in Gujarat, CM Rupani said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-tauktae-pm-modi-conducts-aerial-survey-of-damage-in-gujarat-diu-101621414345386.html
19-05-2021||India||3 dead, 4 injured, 6 missing in 3 mishaps in Jammu and Kashmir’s Ramban||At least three persons were killed, four were injured and six others went missing in three separate mishaps since Tuesday evening in Jammu and Kashmir’s Ramban district.A man died, two others were injured and six went missing when a Srinagar bound taxi (Innova HR55J1678) skidded off NH44 highway and fell in Chenab river near Duggi Pulli in Chanderkot during early hours on Wednesday, said police.The Chanderkot police, Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) personnel, members of the State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) and quick response team extricated two injured and a dead person from the bank of Chenab and shifted them to district hospital, Ramban.Ramban deputy commissioner (DC), Mussarat Islam who was supervising the rescue operation said six persons were still missing. The deceased was identified as 21-years old Rashid, and the injured as driver Mohammed Asif, 28 and Bilal Ahmed, 25. They all hailed from Bijnor in UP.The Army has been asked to send its divers to search for the drowned persons.Union minister Dr Jitendra Singh said, ‘In an unfortunate road accident near Jaswal Bridge in Ramban, an Innova vehicle has rolled down carrying 9 persons. 3 rescued by QRT, out of whom one died. Search going on for others. I have spoken to DC Ramban Mussarat-Ul Islam. Also in touch with Commander 11-RR for deep divers”.Meanwhile, on Tuesday evening, a man died on the spot and two others were injured when a load carrier fell into a 200 feet deep gorge at Chhanjlu Neel in Ramsu area of Ramban. The injured were admitted to a hospital in Ukhral.The dead was identified as driver Shakeel Ahmed,19 and the injured were identified as Nazir Ahmed,22 and Shabir Ahmed,25. They belonged to Neel Gogoni.In another mishap on Tuesday evening, 19-years old Mukesh Singh drowned in Chenab river while fishing in Gangwan in Rajgarh area. His body could not be fished out of Chenab as yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-dead-4-injured-6-missing-in-3-mishaps-in-jammu-and-kashmir-s-ramban-101621414937639.html
19-05-2021||India||Government’s DNA ‘anti-farmer’, says Congress||The Congress on Wednesday hit out at the government for increasing prices of fertilizers and said its DNA is “anti-farmer” despite its big promises to the farmers.Randeep Surjewala, a Congress general secretary, said the price of a 50kg bag of Diammonium Phosphate, a fertiliser, was ₹1,075 in 2014 when the Bharatiya Janata Party was voted to power. He added it now costs ₹1,900. “This is the first time in 74 years that a government has increased the prices of fertilisers so drastically.” He asked the government to slash the prices of the fertilisers and stop exploiting the 620 million farmers.Also Read | Rajasthan BJP MLA Gotam Lal Meena dies due to Covid-19Surjewala said the Centre is currently levying 5%, 18%, 12%, and 12% Goods and Services Tax on fertilizers, pesticides, agricultural equipment and tractors. He also slammed the government for increasing the price of diesel by ₹21.22 in a year. “Apart from the raw material, what farmers need the most is diesel. By increasing the prices and imposing ₹28-37 as excise duty, the government is really torturing the farmers.” Surjewala cited estimates and said the price increase has put an additional burden of ₹20,000 crore on the farmers.He said by increasing the prices of all raw material, passing three “black” farm laws last year, increasing the price of diesel and levying tax on agriculture, the government is proving that its DNA is anti-farmer. “The government is destroying the agricultural sector. This is a conspiracy to make the farmers slaves.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/governments-dna-anti-farmer-says-congress-101621413737406.html
19-05-2021||India||Plea in SC demands Prez Rule in Bengal, seeks SIT probe in BJP workers’ deaths||A petition filed in the Supreme Court has demanded imposition of President’s Rule in West Bengal and formation of a Special Investigation Team (SIT) headed by a retired Supreme Court judge to probe the violence and killing of BJP workers in the state by alleged goons of ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) party following the announcement of assembly poll results on May 2.Calling the violence “illegal and inhuman”, the petition by advocate Ghanshyam Upadhyay said, “Such massacre killing of rival political party by the supporters/goons of ruling party in the state and inaction on the part of the police/law enforcing agency who are the custodian of the rule of law, is not only illegal, inhuman, but also it shocks the conscience and is nothing but Talibanisation of the State, which cannot be countenanced at all.”The petition has added chief minister Mamata Banerjee, TMC , Union of India and the Governor of West Bengal as respondents besides the West Bengal government. So far, over 16 BJP workers have been killed in the post-election violence and property of several families associated with BJP has been destroyed with their lives under threat. Governor Jagdeep Dhankar had last week claimed that lakhs of such persons affected by violence are staying in camps in Assam. Also Read | Is apprehension of death due to Covid ground for bail? SC to hear next weekUpadhyay made out a ground for imposition of President Rule in the state as he claimed that the violence or massacre of BJP workers by alleged TMC goons enjoyed the patronage of the state leadership. His petition said, “The petitioner prays for issuance of direction to the Governor (Respondent No.5) to submit his report to this court under Article 356 of the Constitution of India so as to enable this court to ascertain as to whether there is complete failure and break down of constitutional machinery in the State. If upon such report so submitted, this court is satisfied that there is complete breakdown of constitutional machinery in the state, then this court may be pleased to hold and declare so.”Alternatively, the petition has also requested the court to consider passing directions to the Union Government to invoke Article 355 of the Constitution of India and give advice to the President of India to issue a proclamation for West Bengal under Article 356(1) of the Constitution of India. According to Upadhyay, the actions of the party in power have created “disunity and disaffection” among the people of the state, threatening to “disintegrate the democratic social fabric” which forms a basic feature of the Constitution.Article 356 is an Emergency Provision contained in the Constitution by which President can assume all functions of the state government after being satisfied on a report by the Governor that “a situation has arisen in which the government of the state cannot be carried on in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution.”Citing media reports, Upadhyay said that violence against BJP workers continues till date and the state has witnessed complete anarchy under the leadership of CM Mamta Banerjee. Accusing the state government of abdicating its duty to protect the lives and liberties of the people in the state, particularly those who voted for the rival party, BJP, in the 2021 Assembly polls, the petition found sufficient grounds to accuse the TMC and the state led by the chief minister of setting up a “party dictatorship” leading to complete “chaos and anarchy in the state”.As the state agencies are involved in perpetrating the violence, the petition demanded the West Bengal government to immediately disassociate itself from investigation of these cases and sought an independent probe by SIT into the killings and violence. This SIT should be headed by a retired Supreme Court judge and comprise retired officials drawn from Central Bureau of Investigation, National Investigation Agency, Research and Analysis Wing and should submit periodic reports to the top court, the petition added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/plea-in-sc-demands-prez-rule-in-bengal-seeks-sit-probe-in-bjp-workers-deaths-101621413137145.html
19-05-2021||India||India makes the first move on trade and investment agreement with EU||Union commerce and industry minister Piyush Goyal has written to his counterpart Valdis Dombrovskis last week to initiate the process for resumption of trade and investment negotiations following a decision in this regard arrived at the India-EU Leaders' Summit on May 8. This would involve setting up negotiating groups on different tracks and to begin formal engagement by the two sides.The negotiations towards India-EU Bilateral Trade and Investment Agreement (BTIA) were started in 2007 but suspended in 2013 after 16 rounds of talks. A decision to resume negotiations was a key deliverable of the Porto Summit on 8 May.ALSO READ: Can India and the EU operationalise their natural partnership?According to officials in Delhi, Union minister Goyal has always emphasised that negotiations on both investment and free trade agreement should be pursued parallelly and that both sides should seek their conclusion simultaneously.The EU had always been in favour of a stand-alone investment agreement and agreed to a resumption of FTA negotiations only after a series of engagements held under the High Level Dialogue led by minister Goyal and Vice-President Dombrovskis. These engagements demonstrated considerable common ground for both sides to agree to pursue the two agreements on separate yet parallel tracks. In the post-summit pubic engagements, leaders on both sides had also acknowledged this understanding with Dombrovskis underlining the need for early conclusion of both agreements which were mutually reinforcing.ALSO READ: India and EU to seal connectivity agreement, revive negotiations on tradeGoyal’s letter to Dombrovskis clearly sets the stage for the two sides to appoint senior officials on both sides to begin negotiations for the investment and trade agreement. These negotiations, as the India-EU Joint Statements points out, will be carried out under the supervision of the two ministers. It is likely that an additional secretary from the Commerce Ministry will lead the negotiations from the Indian side.Various studies in the past have indicated that both India and the EU would benefit significantly through an FTA. The EU is India’s second largest export market and for the EU, India’s rapidly growing economic size should make India an attraction for the EU.A GED Study in September 2016 had indicated that an FTA could increase India’s economic performance measured by GDP by 1.3 percent annually. A more recent study by a European Parliament think-tank has similarly brought out substantial benefits for both sides, though the extent of benefits would also depend on the depth of openings and extent of liberalisation brought in both sides.While Dombrovskis reply is awaited by the commerce ministry, both the sides have decided to work towards resilient global supply chains and share their perspectives on the Indo-Pacific. Already, the EU under pressure from Greens and Liberals have suspended the comprehensive trade and investment with China, which was primarily pushed by German Chancellor Angela Merkel and France to some extent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-makes-the-first-move-on-trade-and-investment-agreement-with-eu-101621412090154.html
19-05-2021||India||PM Modi reaches Gujarat to review damage caused by Cyclone Tauktae||Prime Minister Narendra Modi reached Bhavnagar in Gujarat on Wednesday where he will review the situation and damage caused by Cyclone Tauktae.He was received by Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani at the airport, who informed that the Prime Minister will conduct an aerial survey of the areas of districts hit by the cyclone."He will conduct an aerial survey of the areas of Amreli, Gir Somnath, and Bhavnagar districts hit by Cyclone Tauktae," Rupani tweeted.Prime Minister Modi is also scheduled to visit Diu today to review damage caused by the cyclone.On Tuesday, the Gujarat CMO informed that after the aerial survey the PM will hold a review meeting at Ahmedabad."PM Narendra Modi will visit Gujarat on Wednesday to conduct an aerial survey of the areas of Amreli, Gir Somnath and Bhavnagar districts hit by Cyclone Tauktae. The PM will also hold a review meeting with CM Vijay Rupani and top officials of the State later in Ahmedabad", Gujarat CMO as well in a tweet.Tauktae stands to be the strongest storm to impact Gujarat since 1998 as it battered parts of the state and left behind a trail of destruction along the coast, uprooting electric poles and trees, and damaging several houses and roads, before weakening, officials said on Tuesday.Cyclone Tauktae has impacted the weather conditions in several parts of Northern India including Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Rajasthan and Delhi where rainfall was witnessed today.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-reaches-gujarat-to-review-damage-caused-by-cyclone-tauktae-101621412198695.html
19-05-2021||India||Karnataka aiming to achieve 100% Covid vaccination by Nov-end: Health minister||The Karnataka government on Wednesday said it is aiming to administer Covid-19 vaccine to all its adults by October or November-end this year. State health minister K Sudhakar said in Bengaluru that vaccination was the way forward for the state in its fight against Covid-19. “Karnataka received 200,000 doses of Covishied today as part of the order placed by the state government. So far, the state has received 1,094,000 doses (950,000 Covishield & 144,000 Covaxin) as part of direct procurement from manufacturers in addition to 11,124,470 doses received from GoI,” the minister also posted on Twitter.The state government has placed orders for at least 30 million doses of vaccines from both SII and Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech that produces Covaxin.The state had to suspend its vaccination drive of the first dose for 18-44 age group as well as those above 45 due to late delivery of vaccine.This shortage brought down the daily inoculations to 65,181 on Tuesday (till 3.30pm) that takes the total to 11,348,708. Only 2.5 million people have received both the doses which accounts for less than 4% of the state’s entire population estimated at 65 million.Also Read | Data reveals Karnataka Police lost almost 1 cop daily to 2nd wave of Covid-19Karnataka remains one of the most impacted regions in the country as cases continue to surge in most places even though it has shown signs of letting up in Bengaluru. However, experts also say that a drop in testing could also be the reason for fewer cases being reported.Sudhakar said though the state is seeing a higher recovery rate, the next challenge is to bring down the fatality rate, identifying new infections and giving appropriate treatment at the earliest.“The second way forward for the state is that everyone in Karnataka should be administered the vaccines at the earliest. The government is striving towards ensuring 100% coverage to the entire population by October or November-end,” Sudhakar said in Bengaluru on Wednesday.He said that the Centre has so far provided the state with 11,126,340 doses. Of the purchases made directly by the state government, it has so far received 950,000 doses of Covishield and 144,170 doses of Covaxin. These, he said, bring the doses received by the state so far to 12,220,510.“We are looking to import vaccines from abroad,” the minister added. He said Russian-developed Sputnik will have a manufacturing plant in Karnataka which raises hopes of completing the vaccination drive in the state “before the entire country”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-aiming-to-achieve-100-covid-vaccination-by-nov-end-health-minister-101621411819910.html
19-05-2021||India||More than 100 aqua hubs to be set up in Andhra Pradesh to aid fishing community amid Covid-19 surge||Andhra Pradesh chief minister Y S Jaganmohan Reddy on Wednesday said that over 100 aqua hubs will be set up in the state to help the fishing community, including the aqua farmers, at a time when the second wave of the coronavirus disease is ravaging the country.The chief minister said as many as 120 shops will be set up under each of hubs, which will be made accessible to the fishing community with the next two years. This will ensure a fair price for aqua products and also families selling fish.”To ensure that our farmers do face further loss in their livelihoods we have invested ₹50 crore for integrated aqua labs across 35 constituencies. Farmers who are registered with Rythu Bharosa Kendras are being supplied with quality seeds, feed and related services,” informed the CM.Families who have lost livelihoods due to Covid--19 are being taken care of under the YSR Matsyakara Bharosa Scheme. The scheme was launched on November 21, 2019, on the occasion of World Fisheries Day, to extend financial assistance to the fishermen for the annual ban on fishing by mechanised boats from April 15 to June 14On Tuesday, the chief minister allocated ₹119.88 crore to aid 1,19,875 fishing families in the state.“Despite challenges faced by us due to the Covid-19 pandemic our government allocated ₹120 crore for the poor and the needy in the state,” said the chief minister, adding that ₹10,000 proposed to be provided to the families will them ride out of the crisis that the pandemic has posed.The chief minister said as many as ₹332 crore has given to families involved with fishing since the inception of the scheme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/more-than-100-aqua-hubs-to-be-set-up-in-andhra-pradesh-to-aid-fishing-community-amid-covid-19-surge-101621410796378.html
19-05-2021||India||News updates from HT: Delhi HC refuses to stay Covaxin trial on children and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Delhi high court refuses to stay Covaxin clinical trial in children aged 2-18, issues notice to DCGIThe Delhi high court on Wednesday refused to grant an interim stay on the clinical trial of Covaxin in children in the age group of 2 to 18 years. Read MoreRajiv Gandhi assassination: Convict Nalini donates to CM’s relief fundOne of the seven convicts in former prime minister Rajiv Gandhi’s assassination case, Nalini Sriharan, who is presently serving life term in the Vellore women’s prison in Tamil Nadu, donated ₹5,000 to the Chief Minister’s Public Relief Fund (CMPRF) on Tuesday. Read MoreBihar looks to turn migrants’ return into opportunity to complete PMAY homesBihar is looking to migrant workers’ return to the state amid the current wave of Covid-19 pandemic as an opportunity to finish at least 40,000 Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana- Gramin (PMAY-G) homes allotted to the workforce in the last few years. Read More'I told myself if Virat Kohli is on strike…': Harpreet Brar recalls dismissing RCB trio of Kohli, de Villiers, MaxwellHarpreet Brar may have the experience of playing only five matches in the IPL, but he brags of a feat not many bowlers have achieved. Read MoreKia to recall 440,000 vehicles over possible engine fire issueKia is recalling more than 440,000 cars and SUVs in the US market for a second time over a possible engine fire issue. Read MoreSupermodel Naomi Campbell surprises fans as she welcomes her baby girl at 50Supermodel Naomi Campbell recently revealed that she has welcomed a baby girl amid the pandemic into the world. Read MorePastry chef sculpts life-size chocolate sea turtle from scratch. Video is drool-worthyBikes, Christmas trees and even a mobile Ferris wheel- these are some of the few chocolaty creations by the talented pastry chef Amaury Guichon. Read MoreSaif Ali Khan-Kareena Kapoor pose with Saba, Soha, Kunal Kemmu and the kids in unseen 'Khan-Kemmu Khandaan' picsActor Saif Ali Khan's sister Saba Ali Khan has shared unseen pictures on her Instagram page. Read MoreCovid & diabetes: Risks, medicines, & precautions | Dr Anoop Misra explainsA major concern amid Covid-19 is the rising sugar levels seen in patients. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-delhi-hc-refuses-to-stay-covaxin-trial-in-children-and-all-the-latest-news-101621407283870.html
19-05-2021||India||Indian Navy retrieves 14 bodies after barge sinks into Arabian sea due to cyclone Tauktae; 184 rescued||Indian Navy has retrieved 14 bodies from the Arabian sea during a search and rescue operation in the aftermath of cyclone Tauktae. Even as the process of identification of the deceased is ongoing it is not yet clear as to which vessels they were from.A tug boat has reportedly sunk in the Arabian Sea during cyclone Tauktae. It had 13 members on board, two of whom have been rescued by the Navy and search is on for the remaining 11 individuals.Ships and aircrafts of the Indian Navy had been searching the waters off the coast of Mumbai for the missing 89 individuals who were onboard the barge that sank 35 nautical miles off Mumbai, in the aftermath of cyclone Tauktae. Barge P305, which was engaged by Oil and Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC) in contractual work, sank around 7pm on Monday night with 273 crew members on-board. All of whom were forced to jump into the choppy water of the Arabian Sea as the barge sank.The navy has rescued 184 of the 273 crew members, some 20 hours after they were forced to brave the rough water of the sea. The subsequent rough weather conditions made it difficult to conduct search and rescue operations. Naval warship INS Kochi arrived in Mumbai on Wednesday with 125 crew members rescued from the barge.Navy and coast guard have also rescued 137 crew members of GAL Constructor, another barge that ran aground north off Mumbai.Deputy chief of Naval Staff Vice Admiral Murlidhar Sadashiv Pawar told reporters that the ongoing search and rescue operation is among the most challenging ones in the last four decades.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-navy-retrieves-14-bodies-after-barge-sinks-into-arabian-sea-due-to-cyclone-tauktae-184-rescued-101621408631850.html
19-05-2021||India||Delhi CM does not speak for India, says Jaishankar, Sisodia responds with a barb||A day after Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said a new strain of coronavirus disease (Covid-19), which is suspected to affect more children, had been detected in Singapore, external affairs minister (EAM) S Jaishankar said his remarks were "irresponsible" and that the Delhi CM did not speak for India.Responding to the Centre's stand, deputy CM of Delhi and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader Manish Sisodia said the government is only concerned about its image in the international community and is negligent when it comes to the threat the children of the nation face. "If only the government could ensure import of vaccines from other nations as efficiently and quickly as it responded to Arvind Kejriwal's comment, India would face no shortage of vaccines," Sisodia tweeted.Also Read: Singapore extends life-line to India in oxygen crisisHours before, EAM Jaishankar had hailed Singapore as a 'solid' partner of India in the fight against Covid-19, and said Kejriwal's statements had the potential to "damage long-standing partnerships"."Singapore and India have been solid partners in the fight against Covid-19. Appreciate Singapore's role as a logistics hub and oxygen supplier. Their gesture of deploying military aircraft to help us speaks of our exceptional relationship," he tweeted.Modi govt Vs Kejriwal govt over ‘Singapore strain’ of Covid l Who said what"However, irresponsible comments from those who should know better can damage long-standing partnerships. So, let me clarify- Delhi CM does not speak for India," his tweet further read.However, irresponsible comments from those who should know better can damage long-standing partnerships. So, let me clarify- Delhi CM does not speak for India.Indian high commissioner P Kumaran, too, issued a clarification over Kejriwal's remarks and said he had "no competence" to comment on Covid-19 variants, according to EAM spokesperson Arindam Bagchi's tweet."Singapore Government called in our High Commissioner today to convey strong objection to Delhi CM's tweet on "Singapore variant". High Commissioner clarified that Delhi CM had no competence to pronounce on Covid variants or civil aviation policy," Bagchi tweeted.Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday tweeted a request to the Centre, giving way to a diplomatic spat between officials. “The new form of Covid-19 that has emerged in Singapore is reportedly extremely dangerous for children. In India, it may come as part of the third wave. Here are my appeals to the Central government: 1. Air services with Singapore be cancelled with immediate effect 2. Priority on vaccine options should be worked out for children too,” the chief minister said in a tweet in Hindi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/he-does-not-speak-for-india-jaishankar-after-kejriwal-s-covid-strain-remark-101621404851647.html
19-05-2021||India||Rajiv Gandhi assassination: Convict Nalini donates to CM’s relief fund||One of the seven convicts in former prime minister Rajiv Gandhi’s assassination case, Nalini Sriharan, who is presently serving life term in the Vellore women’s prison in Tamil Nadu, donated ₹5,000 to the Chief Minister’s Public Relief Fund (CMPRF) on Tuesday.On May 11, state chief minister MK Stalin introduced the fund and appealed to people to make donations that would be used for Covid-19 control. According to a government statement released on Tuesday, CMPRF has already collected ₹69 crore in a week. Of this, ₹25 crore has been earmarked to source Remdesivir and other drugs for Covid-19, and another ₹25 crore will be utilised to buy containers to transport liquid oxygen from other states. The donations came from industrialists, actors such as Rajinikanth, and Opposition AIADMK that donated ₹1 crore. Nalini’s lawyer Pugazhendhi Pandian said she donated the amount from her savings in the prisoners’ cash property account. According to Tamil Nadu prisons guidelines, the wages earned inside the prison and the money given to them by their family is kept in this account. Nalini earned inside the prison by stitching but stopped after the first wave of Covid-19, Pandian said. “She wrote to the police superintendent on Monday that she wants to donate and it was processed today,” he said. “She didn’t give any reason for her donation.” Also Read | Tamil Nadu invites bids for production of oxygen, concentrators and vaccinesPandhian said he planned to meet the chief minister and appeal for the release of life convicts, including Nalini, who have spent more than 10 years in prison. Nalini has spent 30 years in jail.She was sentenced to death for Rajiv Gandhi’s assassination in Sriperumbudur in Tamil Nadu on May 21, 1991, by a suicide bomber belonging to the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE). The sentence was reduced to life term on Sonia Gandhi’s intervention. The Gandhi family has, on several occasions, said that they have forgiven the convicts. In March 2008, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra went to meet convict Nalini in Vellore jail. The Supreme Court had commuted the sentence of the other six convicts in the case. Nalini’s donation comes on the same day as fellow convict AG Perarivalan’s mother appealed to Stalin to grant parole to her son who has comorbidities and is at a high-risk of contracting the virus inside Chennai’s Puzhal Central Prison. She has been fighting for the release of all the convicts for decades now. In 2018, the Tamil Nadu Cabinet unanimously passed a resolution for the release of all seven convicts and sent it to Governor Banwarilal Purohit. Three years later, Purohit declined to take a decision, saying it was the President who was the competent authority.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajiv-gandhi-assassination-convict-nalini-donates-to-cm-s-relief-fund-101621405877210.html
19-05-2021||India||Cyclone Tauktae: Navy rescues four more from sunken barge||The navy has rescued four more crew members from the sunken barge, which de-anchored from an oil rig in Bombay High into the Arabian Sea hours before the Cyclone Tauktae made landfall on the Gujarat coast late on Monday, officials said. Search operations were going on for the remaining 89 workers on the barge that sank about 35 nautical miles off Mumbai.The navy earlier until Tuesday evening rescued 180 of the 273 crew members from the barge, about 20 hours after they were forced to jump in the extremely rough sea after the barge sank. Four more members were rescued during the night, said commander Mehul Karnik, chief public relations officer, Western Naval Command.Cyclone Tauktae (210km per hour when it came ashore in Gujarat) is the most powerful storm to hit the region in over two decades.Also Read | Cyclone Tauktae weakens into depression, says IMDThe barge was deployed at a platform in Heera oil fields, the largest of the ONGC rigs in the Bombay High area. It got de-anchored on Sunday night and according to deputy chief of naval staff, vice-admiral Murlidhar Sadashiv Pawar, the barge sank at 7pm on Monday in a very choppy sea and rough weather which made the subsequent search and rescue operation one of the most challenging operations the navy has undertaken in four decades.Karnik said INS Kochi and INS Kolkata are returning to Mumbai with rescued crew members. INS Beas, Betwa, and Teg, which joined the search and rescue for the barge on Tuesday, will continue the search with the help of P-8I aircraft and naval helicopters.The navy and coast guards have rescued all 137 crew members of GAL Constructor, another barge that ran aground north off Mumbai, near Satpati in Palghar district. The barge was being brought to Mumbai, when it got off from the tugboat that was toeing it to the Mumbai harbour on Sunday evening. The crew members tried to hold the barge in place by putting all its four anchors, but the cyclonic storm cut off the anchor, setting it adrift.Search and rescue were also conducted by the navy on Tuesday off the coast of Gujarat for three vessels, Support Station (SS) 3, Great Ship Aditi and Drill Ship Sagar Bhushan, which were 15-20 nautical miles south-east off Pipapav on the Gujarat coast.Karnik said the 196 personnel on SS 3 and 101 personnel on Sagar Bhushan are safe and they were being towed to safety.INS Talwar is anchored in the area as a precautionary measure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-tauktae-navy-rescues-four-more-from-sunken-barge-101621404856884.html
19-05-2021||India||Narada case: Calcutta HC to hear bail pleas of arrested Bengal politicians today||The Calcutta high court will on Wednesday hear bail pleas of two Bengal ministers, a legislator, and a former mayor two days after the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) arrested them over corruption charges. It will also take up the CBI’s petition to transfer the trial.A special CBI court granted interim bail to Firhad Hakim and Subrata Mukherjee, the ministers, and ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) legislator Madan Mitra and Sovan Chatterjee in the case. But hours later, the high court stayed the bail order late on Monday.Chatterjee, Mukherjee, and Mitra had to be admitted to a state-run hospital on Tuesday after they complained of illness. Hakim is admitted to the hospital at Presidency Correctional Home in Kolkata.The four on Tuesday moved the high court seeking “recall” of its Monday night order staying the bail.Also Read | Videos, witnesses in Narada case show 4 TMC leaders took cash: CBI sleuthsSenior advocates Abhishek Manu Singhvi, Siddharth Luthra, and Kalyan Banerjee, who is also a TMC MP, moved the recall petitions.The CBI has sought the transfer of the trial alleging “total failure of rule of law”. It said this was the ground reality under which CBI was to function.Chief minister Mamata Banerjee staged a dharna at the CBI’s office in Kolkata after the arrests of the four, while the state law minister led nearly 3,000 TMC workers and supporters to the court premises.The case pertains to a two-year-long sting operation whose videos were uploaded months ahead of the 2016 assembly elections. The sting, conducted by online news portal Narada News, purportedly caught several TMC leaders accepting money in exchange for alleged favours to a fictitious company.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/narada-case-calcutta-hc-to-hear-bail-pleas-of-arrested-bengal-politicians-today-101621404196984.html
19-05-2021||India||Telangana reports 50% drop in Covid-19 cases from May 1||Telangana saw the number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases drop by a half in the last 18 days, informed G Srinivas Rao, the state’s director of public health and family welfare on Wednesday.Telangana had recorded 7,430 cases of Covid-19 diseases on May 1, whereas it recorded a total of 3,891 cases on May 18 (Tuesday), Rao said, attributing the trend to measures taken by the state to curb the spread of the infection and the response of the citizens.Between March 1 and May 18 Telangana has recorded a total of 2,37,843 cases. Addressing the media at the department of public health along with director of medical education Ramesh Reddy, he said, "Of the number of people who were infected during the second wave of the pandemic, 80% of the people have recovered. The rest 20% of them are undergoing treatment. We recorded a total of 1,378 deaths, which is 0.57% of the total recorded cases”The rate of positive cases in the first wave stood at 3.78% while the positivity rate during the second wave stands at 5.56%. “The nationwide positive cases in the second wave is 7.92 %. In Telangana, we have seen a drop from 8.6 % on May 1 to 5.56 % now. The death rate in the second wave stands at 0.50 %,” Rao said further.Countering the information doing the rounds on social media, Rao claimed that there is no dearth of beds in public and private hospitals. He said 22% of the ICU beds and 33% of the oxygen beds in the state are available. Till Tuesday, 491 ICU, 2,582 oxygen and 4,172 general beds were available in public hospitals while private hospitals listed availability of 2,582 ICU, 4,562 oxygen and 11,000 general beds.Addressing the issue of private hospitals overcharging patients, he appealed to the people to call the helpline 9154170960 in case of any discrepancies. He urged the people to use the free medical services provided by public hospitals.“We have received complaints against 26 hospitals via the mentioned WhatsApp number. Based on these complaints a private hospital in Madhapur has been stripped off of its COVID-19 treatment centre status while three hospitals in Secunderabad, Nagole, and Basheerbagh have been issued showcause notices,” Rao said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-reports-50-drop-in-covid-19-cases-from-may-1-101621403627824.html
19-05-2021||India||Singapore calls in Indian envoy, objects to Delhi CM’s comment on new Covid strain||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s remarks about a new Coronavirus strain allegedly being detected in Singapore triggered a diplomatic spat on Wednesday, with the Southeast Asian country calling in the Indian envoy to lodge an objection. Indian high commissioner P Kumaran clarified Kejriwal had “no competence” to comment on Covid-19 variants, external affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said in a tweet. External affairs minister S Jaishankar described Kejriwal’s remarks as “irresponsible” and said the chief minister did not speak for India.Kejriwal’s deputy, Manish Sisodia, hit out at the response to Singapore’s objection to the chief minister’s comments and added the Centre and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) were only concerned about their image globally and not about the well-being of the country’s children. Sisodia added only Kejriwal is worried about the risk of children contracting the infection and not the Centre. “[Kejriwal] said that the danger of Covid-19 infecting more children is increasing. That is what it looks like going by the strain there [Singapore]... which is why it is necessary that we also remain alert... Singapore’s education minister had also given a statement that the risk of children getting infected is increasing. But today the BJP has started dirty politics on the issue,” said Sisodia.Sisodia said the BJP and the Central government are only concerned about Singapore. “They won’t get vaccines for children, but they are worried about Singapore.” He added a few months back, a new strain was detected in London as well and despite several warnings, the Central government did not take necessary actions or measures in time because of which India is now facing a terrible situation. “Today, the entire country is suffering because of the Central government’s negligence. Thousands have died.”It is rare for the external affairs ministry to acknowledge that an Indian envoy has been called in by the government of another country to lodge a protest, and also to publicly criticise an elected Indian official.Hours after Kejriwal tweeted on Tuesday about the alleged new Coronavirus strain in Singapore and asked the Centre to immediately suspend flights from that country, Singapore’s health ministry dismissed his assertions and said the variant prevalent in many Covid-19 cases in recent weeks was the “B.1.617.2 variant, which originated in India”.“Singapore Government called in our High Commissioner today to convey strong objection to Delhi CM’s tweet on ‘Singapore variant’. High Commissioner clarified that Delhi CM had no competence to pronounce on Covid variants or civil aviation policy,” Bagchi tweeted.Jaishankar tweeted that Singapore and India are solid partners in the fight against Covid-19. He appreciated Singapore’s role as a logistics hub and oxygen supplier.“However, irresponsible comments from those who should know better can damage long-standing partnerships. So, let me clarify – Delhi CM does not speak for India,” he added.Earlier on Wednesday, Singapore foreign minister Vivian Balakrishnan quoted Kejriwal’s original tweet and wrote on Twitter: “Politicians should stick to facts! There is no ‘Singapore variant’.”Balakrishnan included in his tweet a link to an article in the publication Nature with the headline “Coronavirus variants are spreading in India – what scientists know so far”. The article said Coronavirus variants including B.1.617 have been linked to the massive surge in infections in India in recent weeks.Singapore’s foreign ministry rejected what it said were “unfounded assertions” on social media by Kejriwal and expressed its disappointment “that a prominent political figure had failed to ascertain the facts before making such claims”. These concerns were conveyed to the Indian envoy, the ministry said.People familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity that the Singapore government had reacted so strongly because Kejriwal’s assertions had not gone down well with the people of Singapore. Many people had taken umbrage at his remarks and publicly complained about them, they added.The Singapore health ministry’s statement of Tuesday had cited Indian media reports quoting Kejriwal and said: “There is no truth whatsoever in the assertions found within the reports.”The statement added: “There is no ‘Singapore variant’. The strain that is prevalent in many of the Covid-19 cases in recent weeks is the B.1.617.2 variant, which originated in India. Phylogenetic testing has shown this B.1.617.2 variant to be associated with several clusters in Singapore.”Kejriwal had asked the Centre to immediately suspend flights from Singapore because the alleged new strain was suspected to affect children. He also contended that the alleged new strain could lead to the third wave of infections in India and said the Centre should focus on identifying vaccines for children.Union aviation minister Hardeep Puri responded to Kejriwal’s remarks by saying that there were no regular flights between India and Singapore, except for a few under the Vande Bharat mission to repatriate Indian nationals.Kejriwal had said in his tweet in Hindi: “The new form of Covid-19 that has come to Singapore is being said to be extremely dangerous for children. In India, it may come as a third wave. My appeal to the Central government: 1. Air services with Singapore be cancelled with immediate effect 2. Priority on vaccine options should be worked out for children too.”Sisodia maintained scientists and even the Supreme Court are saying that children are in danger because of this strain of the virus. “They have warned that whatever the next strain is, it could affect children on a large scale leading to a potential third wave. But we are not understanding this. The issue is not Singapore. The issue is the children of our country. Parents in India are worried about their children and not about India’s image before Singapore.”Sisodia said the Centre sold vaccines meant for Indian children to other countries only to feel happy about posters that were put up there. “They are not worried about the children. The BJP and the Centre can keep worrying about their image across the world, but we will keep worrying about our children,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/singapore-calls-in-indian-envoy-objects-to-delhi-cm-s-comment-on-new-covid-strain-101621403776803.html
19-05-2021||India||Verdict in rape case against former Tehelka editor Tarun Tejpal on May 21||Verdict in the rape case against former Tehelka editor-in-chief Tarun Tejpal will be announced on May 21, a sessions court in Goa said on Wednesday, according to news agency PTI.The former journalist was accused by a colleague of sexually assaulting her in an elevator of a five-star hotel during his magazine’s event in Goa in November 2013. He was arrested on November 30 in the same year, but later released on bail in May 2014. He has denied the allegations.The court was earlier going to pronounce the verdict on April 27, but it was adjourned to May 12. On May 12, it was further deferred to May 19 because of a lack of staff members due the coronavirus pandemic, the court said.Tarun Tejpal faced trial under IPC sections 341 (wrongful restraint), 342 (wrongful confinement), 354 (assault or criminal force with intent to outrage modesty), 354-A (sexual harassment), 354-B (assault or use of criminal force to woman with intent to disrobe), 376(2)(f) (person in position of authority over women, committing rape) and 376(2)k) (rape by person in position of control), according to PTI.In 2017, the former journalist moved the Bombay High Court, seeking a stay on an order by the Mapusa sessions court which gave a nod to the framing of charges against him in the case. However, his petition was dismissed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/verdict-in-rape-case-against-former-tehelka-editor-tarun-tejpal-on-may-21-101621401170093.html
19-05-2021||India||Passenger complaints for refund highest in April: DGCA report||The number of air passengers seeking refund from airlines has surged in the past few months, the highest in the past six months being in April, according to the monthly report of Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA). As many as 75% air passengers have registered their complaints against airlines in April.These passengers are either those who could not fly to their destination states due to travel restrictions there, or the those who failed to board their flight after testing positive for Covid-19 themselves. In both such cases, airlines have reportedly deducted a huge amount as cancellation charges. According to previous DGCA reports, November 62.4%; December 61.4%; January 41.%; February 54.6%; and March saw 65.7% refund-related complaints. According to the report, domestic carriers together registered 5.72 million air travellers in April compared to 7.8 million in March. Also Read | How Mumbai’s city officials made their city more Covid-ready than DelhiThe Indian aviation industry is still recovering from suspension of commercial flight operations last year due to the nationwide lockdown. The second wave of the pandemic hit the country hard in April, resulting in a decline in air traffic across the country,especially after foreign countries banned India flights. While the government has allowed airlines to operate at 80% of their seating capacities, fear of contracting the virus has seen poor footfall. The second wave of the pandemic has also brought in several travel restrictions and lockdowns in various states,forcing people to stay at home. Moreover, a significant number of passengers is also avoiding travel voluntarily. Due to these, passengers are demanding full refund,whereas few airlines allegedly are charging cancellation amounts from them,leading to an increase in such complaints.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/passenger-complaints-for-refund-highest-in-aprildgcareport-101621401976600.html
19-05-2021||India||One year after Galwan clash, defence ministry to decide on Shinkun La tunnel||A year after the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) transgressed into Gogra-Hot Springs and Pangong Tso area of eastern Ladakh, the Union defence ministry is on the verge of deciding the alignment of strategic Nimmu-Padum-Darcha road to feed supplies to Indian military formations in Ladakh sector. The new alignment will be the third axis to Ladakh and will be least exposed to the adversary as compared to Srinagar-Zoji La-Kargil axis and Manali-Upshi-Leh axis.According to officials in roads and highways and defence ministries, the Border Roads Organization (BRO) and the National Highways and Infrastructure Development Corporation (NHIDCL) have already made separate presentations before the top officials of the defence ministry last March and left the latter to decide on the alignment.Key to this new alignment is a proposed tunnel under 16,703-feet Shingo or Shinkun La, which gets snowed in and blocks traffic movement during at least three winter months. Situated on the border between Himachal Pradesh and Ladakh, the high mountain pass has snow round-the-year with BRO constructing motorable roads on both sides of the pass.According to geology study conducted by Snow and Avalanche Study Establishment on behalf of the BRO, the Manali based institute recommended three options of constructing tunnels to obviate the pass. The first option was a 4.25km tunnel located at an distance of 36.5km from Darcha (99 km stone on Manali-Sarchu road). The north portal of the proposed tunnel is 41km from Darcha. The other two proposed options are 7km tunnel and a 13.81km tunnel.For the BRO, the 4.25km tunnel is a preferred option as it addresses the most difficult portion of the road and remaining road could be kept open with snow clearance effort and some avalanche structures. The time for construction of this tunnel, which is already on the road axis, will be three working seasons and the road-tunnel will be completed by 2024.According to BRO, this option offers the best gradient, least overburden and least support requirements with Afcons, who constructed the Atal Tunnel, moving their equipment to build the tunnel under Shinkun la on a war footing.The NHIDCL, under the ministry of surface transport, on its part has suggested an altogether new road alignment, north-east of the present axis with a 13.5km tunnel under Shinkun La. Projecting this as a shortest route linking Atal Tunnel to the Darcha-Padun-Nimmu road, the NHDCL proposal involves building access roads on both sides to the proposed 13.5 km tunnel, which will take many a season to complete. The NHIDCL is preparing a detailed project report on the new route.While the defence ministry is still to take a decision on the two proposals, fact remains is that the third route is an urgent requirement given the Chinese Army seriously ramping up military infrastructure all along the 3,488km Line of Actual Control (LAC).Although the disengagement is completed between the two armies in Pangong Tso, the Western Theatre Command of PLA continues to remain deployed in eastern Ladakh and depth areas. The disengagement at Gogra-Hot Springs is still work in progress and any possibility of a LAC flare-up is not beyond the realms of military possibility. Time is running out on the Shinkun La tunnel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/one-year-after-galwan-clash-defence-ministry-to-decide-on-shinkun-la-tunnel-101621399943200.html
19-05-2021||India||Assam Covid-19 patient’s death by suicide in home isolation raises questions||A 70-year-old Covid-19 positive Assam resident died by suicide at his Silchar home on Tuesday evening during self-isolation. He used to work at a local shop in Rangirkhari area in the town and was living with his 65-years old sister in a single room flat. His death has led to people questioning the district administration’s decision to allow the senior citizen to recover at home against the Covid-19 guidelines.The locals said they learnt about the incident around 4:45pm when the victim’s sister cried out for help. “When we went closer to the house, we saw she was crying and saying that her brother had died by suicide. He was a Covid positive person, so we could not help the family. We immediately informed the police and the health department,” said a neighbour.The victim’s sister said her brother was depressed about the restrictions imposed in the state to contain the infection as it had impacted the family’s income. “He had tested positive for Covid-19 last Friday and since then we have been in home isolation. Today at around 4:30 pm, I went to the washroom and when I stepped out, I saw him hanging. I don’t know why he took such a step and left me alone in this situation,” she said.She said she understood why her neighbours were reluctant to help. “It was not safe for anybody to come closer to a Covid-infected body.”Following his death, locals are questioning the administration’s decision to allow him to stay in home isolation despite his age and lack of mandatory space for the purpose. “Both of them were aged and ailing. At a time when the government has said a Covid positive person aged above 50 cannot stay at home, on what grounds did the local administration grant permission for home isolation?” asked Uttam Roy, a neighbour.Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sharma recently instructed deputy commissioners of all districts in the state to monitor the health of senior citizens in their jurisdictions. According to Covid-19 treatment guidelines, home isolation can only be granted to persons with adequate resources at home, however, the deceased was living in a one room kitchen unit with no separate toilets. It has one small access and an iron staircase.Officer in charge of Silchar Sadar police station Ditumoni Goswami said the body had been sent to Silchar Medical College and hospitals for post-mortem.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-70-year-old-covid-patient-s-death-by-suicide-during-home-isolation-raises-questions-101621400536677.html
19-05-2021||India||Shailaja’s exclusion from Kerala Cabinet triggers debate; CPI (M) defends move||The exclusion of former Kerala health minister K K Shailaja, 64, from the Left Democratic Front government, which was voted back to power this month, trigged much debate on social media. Some netizens called Shailaja’s omission a mistake amid the second Covid-19 wave as her work was appreciated during the first wave. Others compared her to another communist leader, late KR Gouri Amma, who was denied Kerala’s chief ministership in the 1980s. On Twitter, some questioned whether “ego and sexism” was behind Shailaja’s omission and said she merits an exception even if the ruling Communist Party of India (Marxism), or CPI(M), was inducting new faces.Shailaja, who also led Kerala’s fight against the Nipah virus in 2018, was re-elected to the Kerala assembly by a margin of 61,035 votes from Mattannur. Her victory margin was bigger than that of chief minister-elect Pinarayi Vijayan.Watch | KK Shailaja speaks after Left govt drops her from new Kerala Cabinet﻿﻿MB Rajesh, who is due to be sworn in as the Kerala Speaker, said those who are surprised or shocked or feel Shailaja’s exclusion was unexpected are unaware of the norms of CPI (M). “They compare us to other bourgeois parties, for whom parliamentary responsibilities are the sole responsibilities. For communists, parliamentary responsibilities are not the sole political activity. That is why Shailaja... has been replaced and given new responsibility of the party’s chief whip.”PA Muhammad Riyas’s inclusion into the ministry has also come under scrutiny as the head of the CPI(M)’s youth wing is also Vijayan’s son-in-law.Rajesh rejected allegations of nepotism. “You should not undermine Riyas’s contributions to the party by merely referring to him as the chief minister’s son-in-law. He is the DYFI [Democratic Youth Federation of India] president and his contribution to the party has been invaluable.”Rajesh also defended the invitation to 5,000 people for Vijayan and his ministry’s swearing-in on Thursday despite the pandemic. “The venue has a seating capacity of 50,000 people. So, all the Covid protocols and social distancing would be strictly followed. Also, 500 is the maximum number of people we are expecting. The actual number might be lower.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shailajas-exclusion-from-kerala-cabinet-triggers-debate-cpi-m-defends-move-101621397716285.html
19-05-2021||India||Tripura man dies by suicide two weeks after wife ended her life||A man from South Tripura district, who has been suffering from depression for the last two weeks since his wife’s death, allegedly died by suicide on Tuesday, Tripura police said.The deceased was found wriggling in pain at his house and was first taken to a local health centre before being shifted to Sabroom district hospital, where he was declared dead, said police.“He was learnt to have been depressed since [the past] few days and could have taken the drastic step as a result. We are investigating the matter,” said officer in-charge of Sabroom police station Dulal Datta.The man allegedly slipped into depression after his wife’s death by suicide on May 4, following humiliation by villagers over her alleged extra-marital relationship.Police said she had attempted to end her life earlier as well but it was thwarted by her husband. 11 persons linked to her suicide case were later arrested after Tripura high court took suo motu cognisance of the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-man-dies-by-suicide-two-weeks-after-wife-ender-her-life-101621397057606.html
19-05-2021||India||Covid-19 stabilising in many states, says Centre||Coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic was stabilising in many states in India, said VK Paul, member (health), Niti Aayog, even as the country continues to report close to 300,000 daily new cases.“In many states the pandemic curve is stabilising, as a result of comprehensive efforts at containment, at testing, restrictions, and all the other efforts that people of those states are carrying out. States such as Maharashtra, Kerala, Karnataka, Telangana, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Rajasthan, Bihar, Chhattisgarh, and Madhya Pradesh,” said Paul during the weekly briefing on Covid-19 updates.Lav Agarwal, joint secretary, Union health ministry, presented a comparative data in the briefing to show how a lesser percentage of India’s population was infected with Covid-19 as compared to that in other countries.“The continued efforts made by the medical fraternity, by states and districts, in coordination with Union government, during the past one year and four months have ensured that there has been limited infection spread in the country. If you look at data, only 1.8% of country’s population has been affected with Covid-19 that was found to be laboratory confirmed positive case,” he said.Also Read | Consumption revival hit as Covid jolts middle classComparing the figures with other countries, Agarwal said that in United States about 10.1% of the population has been infected, in Brazil the percentage increased to 7.3%, in a developed country like France it is around 9%, in Russia about 3.4%, about 7.4% in Italy ...which goes on to show our efforts on ground, wherein we involved people at the community level, have resulted in the disease transmission having been curtailed to a large extent.They also said that there were still a few states where there continues to be concern in terms of the trajectory such as Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, West Bengal, Odisha, and to some extent, Punjab.“It is a mixed picture but there is overall stabilisation, and what we know from scientific analysis that the reproduction number (R0) is overall below 1 now,” said Paul.Experts, however, say it is too early to predict a trend.“It is not a good time to celebrate decrease in numbers as we are dealing with an infectious disease and it is way too early to say which direction the spread is going to take, especially since the disease has reached rural and tribal areas where health infrastructure is skeletal,” said a senior public health expert, requesting anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-stabilising-in-many-states-says-centre-101621397056462.html
19-05-2021||India||4,529 new Covid deaths recorded in India, highest single-day toll in any country||India recorded 267,334 cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Wednesday, and the number of new fatalities stood at 4,529, according to the Union health ministry dashboard. The total number of Covid-19 tests done during during this period was 20,08,296.With this, the country's cumulative infection tally went up to 25,496,330 while the death toll soared to 283,248.Karnataka, the recently emerged Covid-19 hotspot, remained the worst-affected state with 5,75,028 active infections followed by Maharashtra which had 4,19,727 active cases.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage﻿As the second wave of Covid-19 slows down in the country, the number of fatalities has been projected to go up. According to experts, people who were infected during the peak of the second wave and are now battling for their lives, are likely to add to the toll in the coming weeks if they do not recover.The country recorded over 4,000 deaths for the fifth time in a row, even as the number of new cases stayed below the 3 lakh mark for the third consecutive day. The 4,529 fatalities recorded in India surpassed the record of 4,468 deaths in the US on January 12. Brazil, the third hardest-hit country in the world, recorded 4,211 deaths on April 6.The fall in new cases of Covid-19 can be attributed to fresh restrictions and extended lockdowns, especially in the hot spot states, experts said.Delhi, for instance, saw a downward trend in the average positivity rate in last 10 days, which fell by over 14% from May 8 to May 18. Chhattisgarh, too, saw its positivity rate drop around 13% in the same period while in Haryana, it dropped over 10%.Covid-19 lockdowns in the Delhi and Haryana have been extended till May 24 while Chhattisgarh's lockdown has been extended till May 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4529-new-deaths-recorded-in-india-highest-single-day-toll-in-any-country-101621393636038.html
19-05-2021||India||Cyclone Tauktae weakens into depression, says IMD||After leaving a trail of destruction in Gujarat and Maharashtra, cyclone Tauktae weakened into a depression over south Rajasthan and adjoining Gujarat, the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Wednesday. At the moment it is about 60km west-southwest of Udaipur, and is expected to further "weaken gradually into a well-marked low-pressure area during next 12 hours," the weather department said in a tweet.Deep Depression (Remnant of Tauktae) weakened into depression over South Rajasthan and adjoining Gujarat region at 0530 hours IST of the 19th May, 2021. It is about 60 km west-southwest of Udaipur. To weaken gradually into a Well marked low pressure area during next 12 hours. pic.twitter.com/QzgTP05pObIn Gujarat, hundreds of thousands of people were left without power after the storm uprooted electric poles and trees. Several houses and roads were also damaged. Tauktae stands to be the strongest storm to impact Gujarat since 1998.Cyclone Tauktae has impacted the weather conditions in several parts of northern India. Many areas such as Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Rajasthan and Delhi are likely to witness rainfall in the next few hours, the weather department said in a forecast.Click here for LIVE updates on cyclone TauktaeAccording to a report by AFP, at least 33 people have lost their lives and dozens of others have gone missing after the "extremely severe cyclonic storm" battered states on the western coast.Here are the latest updates on cyclone Tauktae1) Later in the day, Prime Minister Narendra Modi will visit Gujarat and Diu to take stock of the situation and assess the damage caused by Tauktae. PM Modi will conduct an aerial survey of Una, Diu, Jafarabad and Mahuva, before holding a review meeting in Ahmedabad.2) Light to moderate intensity rain and gusty winds with a speed of 30-40kmph would continue to occur over the national capital region (Bahadurgarh, Gurugram, Faridabad, Ballabhgarh, Noida) and the adjoining areas of Panipat, Gannaur, Sonipat, Gohana, the IMD said in its morning bulletin.3) As per an official statement, INS Kochi and INS Kolkata -- two ships of the Indian Navy --and one tug boat of Afcons, one OSV (offshore supply vessel) of ONGC, Coast Guard vessel 'ICG Samarth' have been pressed into service for the rescue service of Barge 'Papaa-305' that started drifting after its anchors gave way. Three more ONGC OSVs and two MSVs (multipurpose support vessel) have been mobilised for the same purpose.4) According to an ANI report, the Indian Navy has rescued a total of 180 personnel so far from Barge P-305 as cyclone Tauktae caused severe damage to property and lives.5) On Tuesday, Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray spoke to his Gujarat counterpart Vijay Rupani to discuss the impact of the cyclone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-tauktae-weakens-into-depression-says-imd-101621395507917.html
19-05-2021||India||Maha continues to register dip in daily Covid cases; state tally at 5,433,506||Maharashtra on Tuesday reported 28,438 fresh Covid-19 cases, taking the state’s tally to 5,433,506. The daily positivity rate in the state is on a constant decline since May 8, showing a drop in viral activity, barring a few districts. Mumbai reported under 1,000 cases after 77 days with 961 fresh cases on Tuesday. The city’s low numbers are due to a drop in testing on Monday because to Cyclone Tauktae that brushed past the city on Monday. The city’s death toll rose by 44, taking it to 14,316, while its active case load came down to 31,790.The state’s active caseload reduced to 419,727, while the death toll rose to 83,777 with 679 fatalities on Tuesday. With the data reconciliation, 612 deaths have been added to the cumulative death tally, the state health department said.Also Read | 27 dead, over 100 missing as cyclone batters west coastA chunk of the fatalities reported on Tuesday came from Kolhapur which reported 130 deaths (115 in rural Kolhapur, 15 in Kolhapur city), in the past 24 hours. Vasai-Virar, on the outskirts of Mumbai, reported 58 deaths. Satara reported 34 deaths, while Beed saw 27 fatalities. In the past 24 hours, the state tested 250,310 samples and had a positivity rate of 11.36%. Since May 8, the daily positivity rate in the state has seen a consistent drop from 22.56% to 11.35% on May 17. On Tuesday, the state saw a marginal increase. In the first week of May, the daily positivity rate swung between 22.97% (May 3) and 20.64% (May 5).The overall positivity rate in the state stood at 17.2%, which means that for every 100 samples tested, the state records 17 positive cases. The overall positivity rate in the state too has shown a decline since April when it was 27.5% on April 6.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maha-continues-to-register-dip-in-daily-covid-cases-state-tally-at-5433506-101621395376193.html
19-05-2021||India||Assam professor arrested for raping minor, abetting her death by ‘suicide’||A college professor in Assam’s Chirang district was arrested on Tuesday for allegedly raping a 14-year-old girl student and abetting her suicide, which is suspected in the case, said police. Her family was prevented from conducting her last rites since they didn’t inform the police after she was found dead on Monday at the Tukrajhar residence of Bengtol College’s assistant professor of philosophy, Prabin Narzary. The minor girl was pursuing her studies while staying at Narzary’s house for the past one year, police said. An inquest in the case began in the presence of a woman executive magistrate and the victim’s body was sent to Barpeta Medical College Hospital for post-mortem examination. “Credible information was received on Monday night that the victim had sent a WhatsApp message to her friend, informing she was subjected to [a] sexual assault and didn’t want to live anymore,” a police release said. Following the lead, Narzary was arrested for raping someone under 16 years of age, causing disappearance of evidence and abetment of suicide, along with Section 4 of Pocso Act. “Based on the evidence collected so far, Prabin Narzay has been arrested in connection with the case and remanded to police custody for three days,” said the release. Last month a father-son duo was arrested after the burnt body of a 12-year-old domestic help was found from their residence in Nagaon district’s Raha. Preliminary police investigation revealed that the minor might have been burnt to death. It has been alleged that the victim was raped and was pregnant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-professor-arrested-for-raping-minor-abetting-her-death-by-suicide-101621395196231.html
19-05-2021||India||News updates from HT: Cloudy day ahead for Delhi; heavy rains also likely today and all the latest news||Cloudy day ahead for Delhi; heavy rains also likely todayThe national Capital is likely to see a cloudy sky on Wednesday with the possibility of heavy rain, as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast. Read MoreIndia’s Covid-19 hot spots on recovery road: DataThe punishing second wave of the coronavirus disease is receding in 19 Indian states and Union territories, some of which were its early epicentres. Read MoreBSF foils infiltration attempt from Pak, intruder injured near Jammu borderThe Border Security Force (BSF) claimed to have foiled an infiltration bid, attempted through the international border in Jammu and Kashmir’s Samba sector late Tuesday with the arrest of an intruder from Pakistan. Read MoreBombs rain on Gaza after lull; world scrambles for ceasefireIsrael bombarded Gaza with airstrikes and Palestinian militants resumed cross-border rocket fire on Tuesday after a brief overnight lull during which the UN managed to send a small fuel convoy into the enclave.Kangana Ranaut shares negative Covid-19 report after ‘demons’ question her credibilityKangana Ranaut shared proof of her recovery from Covid-19 after ‘demons’ suggested that she was lying. Read MoreWatch | ‘Partially & probably quite...’: Fauci on US vaccines against B.1.617.1 variant||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-cloudy-day-ahead-for-delhi-heavy-rains-also-likely-today-and-all-the-latest-news-101621394001460.html
19-05-2021||India||Rain, thunderstorm likely across NW India; downpour warning for U’khand||There is likely to be widespread rain and thunder over northwest India and the western Himalayan region today, IMD has warned.Due to likely heavy to very heavy rain at isolated places over Himachal Pradesh, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi and West Uttar Pradesh today, Iocalised flooding of roads; waterlogging in low lying areas and closure of underpasses in urban areas is likely. There could be traffic disruption also.IMD has warned of localised mudslides(for plain areas) and landslides (for hill and vulnerable areas). Damage to horticulture and standing crops is also likely in some areas due to inundation. Heavy rain may lead to riverine flooding in some river catchments. There is a red category warning for Uttarakhand and an orange category warning for rest of northwest India today. A red category warning implies that authorities should take action to prevent any disasters due to heavy rain while an orange category warning implies agencies should be prepared to respond to disasters related to heavy and widespread rain.Extremely severe cyclonic storm, Tauktae which crossed Gujarat coast on Monday has weakened to a deep depression today. It is very likely to move north-northeastwards and weaken gradually into a depression. The remnant of the cyclone is very likely to move north-eastwards across Rajasthan to west Uttar Pradesh today and tomorrow.Also Read | Cyclone Tauktae: 317 people saved from barges, 390 strandedUnder its influence, rainfall at most places with heavy to very heavy falls at isolated places is likely over Gujarat region and Saurashtra and rainfall at many places with heavy to very heavy falls at isolated places over south Rajasthan.Tidal wave above astronomical tide of about 1-2 metre (m) over Anand & Amreli, Gir Somnath, Diu, Bhavnagar and of about 1 m over Bharuch, southern parts of Ahmedabad, Surat, Navsari, Valsad is likely to inundate coastal areas.Remnants of Tauktae and its interaction with an approaching western disturbance is likely to cause fairly widespread to widespread rainfall/thunderstorms over the western Himalayan region and adjoining plains of northwest India today and tomorrow along with isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall over Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi and West Uttar Pradesh today and heavy rainfall at isolated places over Punjab also. Isolated extremely heavy rain (over 20 cm) is also likely over Uttarakhand today.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rain-thunderstorm-likely-across-nw-india-downpour-warning-for-ukhand-101621394117153.html
19-05-2021||India||BSF foils infiltration attempt from Pak, intruder injured near Jammu border||The Border Security Force (BSF) claimed to have foiled an infiltration bid, attempted through the international border in Jammu and Kashmir’s Samba sector late Tuesday with the arrest of an intruder from Pakistan. A BSF Officer said the intruder was injured in the firing by the troops.“Alert troops observed suspicious movements on International Border in Bainglard area of Samba district. BSF troops fired in the direction in which a Pak intruder was injured” said a BSF officer.Watch: BSF foils infiltration bid, arrests Pakistani intruder in Samba, J&KThis is the second infiltration attempt in the Samba sector in the past fortnight. Earlier, an intruder was shot dead by BSF along the IB in the same sector on May 5 when he refused to stop when warned by the security personnel.On April 13, the BSF had caught a Pakistani intruder along the IB in RS Pura sector of Jammu district. He, too, didn’t heed warning calls and received minor injuries when fired at by a BSF jawan.The latest incident on Tuesday occurred at around 9.15 pm. The 27-years old intruder was identified as Asif, a resident of Jaffarwal in Pakistan. He was shifted to government medical college hospital in Jammu for treatment of the four bullet injuries received.India shares 744 km long line of control (LoC) with Pakistan occupied Kashmir and 200 km international border with Pakistan.Earlier on Tuesday, security forces recovered two pistols and 11 grenades during a search operation in Jammu division’s Poonch district, officials said.The weapons, smuggled from across the Line of Control (LoC), were found hidden at a secluded place at village Mahra in the Surankote area of the border district, the officials said.However, no one was arrested during the joint operation by police and army, which was carried out based on specific information.Meanwhile, a rusted grenade was found lying in the bushes in the Kandi area of nearby Rajouri district and was subsequently destroyed by the bomb disposal squad in a controlled explosion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bsf-foils-infiltration-attempt-from-pakistan-intruder-injured-near-jammu-border-101621390576016.html
19-05-2021||India||27 dead, over 100 missing as cyclone batters west coast||At least two dozen people were dead and more than 100 missing on Tuesday after Cyclone Tauktae battered India’s west coast and made landfall the previous night in Gujarat, where damage was reported in about 2,500 villages across the southern region of the state, leading to disruption in power and internet connectivity.In Maharashtra, 16 people were reported dead in four coastal districts. Close to a hundred roads were blocked, with thousands of tree being uprooted by gusty winds of up to 170km per hour, officials said. Maharashtra relocated close to 100,000 people to safety, they said.Prime Minister Narendra Modi will visit Gujarat and Diu on Wednesday to review the situation there and the damage by the cyclone, according to people aware of the developments.Tauktae crossed the Gujarat coast as an “extremely severe cyclonic storm” around midnight and gradually weakened into a “severe cyclonic storm”, before further weakening to a “cyclonic storm”, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Tuesday.Also Read| Cyclone Tauktae to weaken gradually in next few hours: IMDSeven fresh deaths took India’s toll to at least 27, including a child crushed by a collapsing wall, an 80-year-old woman killed by a falling pole and a teenage girl by a crumbling roof.The cyclone, with wind speeds of up to 165 kmph, made landfall near Porbandar in Gujarat, causing widespread rainfall across Gujarat and southern parts of Rajasthan on Tuesday. The impact of the cyclone is expected to be seen in northern India on Wednesday, with IMD predicting widespread rainfall in north India and issuing orange alert for the region.The Indian Coast Guard on Tuesday said it rescued eight fishermen onboard a fishing boat that drifted into the sea off the coast of Veraval harbour in Gujarat due to the cyclone. Two Coast Guard Chetak helicopters, operating from an airbase in the Union Territory of Daman, rescued eight crew members of stranded ship Gal Constructor from the sea off the Satpati coast (in neighbouring Maharashtra) amid very rough and inclement weather conditions, a statement said.Battling extreme weather, the Indian Navy and the Coast Guard have so far rescued 314 people on board two barges that went adrift in the Arabian Sea near Mumbai hours before Cyclone Tauktae made landfall on the Gujarat coast, an official said on Tuesday.Three barges and an oil rig with 707 personnel on board had gone adrift on Monday. These included accommodation barge P305 with 273 persons, cargo barge GAL Constructor with 137 personnel on board, accommodation barge SS-3 with 196 personnel on board and the Sagar Bhushan oil rig with 101 personnel on board, a navy official said. While all the 137 people on board the cargo barge GAL Constructor have been rescued, 180 of the 273 onboard P305 have been rescued so far, the official said.Also Read| Heavy rain likely in Delhi-NCR as a weakened Tauktae closes inIn Maharashtra, district authorities in coastal areas reported 16 deaths and horticulture damage to 9,000 hectares of land. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray urged Union home minister Amit Shah on Tuesday for financial assistance from the central government from National Disaster Relief Fund.Cyclone Tauktae impacted in 10 Maharashtra districts even though Ratnagiri, Raigad and Sindhudurg were worst hit. Around 30% of the villages in Raigad and Ratnagiri were still in the dark because of the electricity outage, an official said.According to the report received by the state government, 3,571 villages and 215,266 people were affected in the coastal districts. The report said 17,657 structures were partially or fully damaged.“Mango growers in Sindhudurg and Ratnagiri have sustained huge losses… The crop has been completely destroyed,” said Sanjay Yadavrao of Konkan Bhoomi Pratisthan, a social group working for peasant rights.Many areas of Ahmedabad city were inundated with knee-deep water following incessant downpour since the afternoon as the cyclone passed northward along the district’s periphery. The city received a staggering 75.69mm of rain between 6am and 4pm, said municipal commissioner Mukesh Kumar.Traffic on several roads was hindered due to fallen trees and hoardings. Heavy rain also hit southern parts of Rajasthan late on Tuesday. The weather department has announced red alert in over half a dozen districts where heavy to very heavy rainfall is expected on Wednesday. “The cyclone will be entering Rajasthan by late Tuesday night. At present the system is in Gujarat. It will enter state as depression and will weaken by May 20,” said climate scientist Radhey Shyam.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/27-dead-over-100-missing-as-cyclone-batters-west-coast-101621387853127.html
19-05-2021||India||Cyclone Tauktae: 317 people saved from barges, 390 stranded||In a massive air and sea mission, the Indian Navy and Coast Guard have so far rescued 317 people on board barges that went adrift in the Arabian Sea near Mumbai hours before cyclone Tauktae made landfall on the Gujarat coast, but 390 more remain were stranded or missing from offshore facilities, an official said on Tuesday.Tauktae, the most powerful storm to hit the region in more than two decades, packed sustained winds of up to 210km per hour when it came ashore in Gujarat.Three barges and an oil rig with 707 personnel on board went adrift on Monday. These included barge P305 with 273 persons, cargo barge GAL Constructor with 137 personnel on board, accommodation barge SS-3 with 196 personnel on board and the Sagar Bhushan oil rig with 101 personnel on board, a Navy official said.Also Read| Cyclone Tauktae: PM Modi to visit Gujarat, Diu to take stock of damage causedWhile all the 137 people on board the cargo barge GAL Constructor were rescued, 180 of the 273 on board P305 have been rescued so far, the official said.Deputy chief of naval staff, vice admiral Murlidhar Sadashiv Pawar said the P305 barge sank at 7pm on Monday in a very choppy sea. The subsequent search and rescue is one of the most challenging operations in four decades, he said.Indian Naval Ships (INS) Beas, Betwa and Teg have joined INS Kochi and INS Kolkata in the search and rescue (SAR) operations for the barge. The SAR had also been augmented with P-8I and naval helicopters, which held an aerial search, and since the commencement of the SAR from May 17, 180 have been rescued so far, said commander Mehul Karnik, chief public relations officer, Western Naval Command. Karnik, however, clarified that helicopters cannot be used for aerial search at night and the search will continue by naval ships after ascertaining the distance and direction the survivors could have drifted into the sea. P305, according to some rescued workers, got disconnected from the rig around 10.15pm on Sunday and went adrift as Tauktae struck the Konkan coast. Survivors said water started entering the accommodation barge from Monday morning and they were forced to get out of their compartments and move to the deck of the barge.The GAL constructor barge was out of control for three days before the cyclonic storm led to its sinking, Avinash Aadke, a rescued worker said after being flown to Mumbai. Aadke also said help was being sought from the Coast Guard.Also Read| Cyclone Tauktae to weaken gradually in next few hours: IMDBesides the barges, one drilling rig of ONGC, ‘Sagar Bhushan’, with 101 people on board (37 ONGC employees and 64 contractual workers), too drifted away from its location.Barge ‘Support Station-3’ had 196 persons and is drifting North-West but is clear of all operational installations of Mumbai High - India’s biggest oilfield. Operations to bring these people to safety are on.With PTI inputs||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-tauktae-317-people-saved-from-barges-390-stranded-101621387898500.html
19-05-2021||India||Cyclone Tauktae: PM Modi to visit Gujarat, Diu to take stock of damage caused||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will visit Gujarat and Diu on Wednesday to review the damage caused in both these places due to Cyclone Tauktae. The cyclone, which has ravaged the country's west coast, made landfall in Gujarat on Tuesday. The PM will start from Delhi at 9.30am, news agency ANI reported. He will land in Gujarat's Bhavnagar and proceed for an aerial survey of Una, Diu, Jafarabad and Mahuva. He will also chair a review meeting at Ahmedabad after the survey, ANI said.Click here to track LIVE updates on Cylcone Tauktae"PM Narendra Modi will visit Gujarat on Wednesday to conduct an aerial survey of the areas of Amreli, Gir Somnath and Bhavnagar districts hit by Cyclone Tauktae. The PM will also hold a review meeting with CM Vijay Rupani and top officials of the State later in Ahmedabad", Gujarat CMO said in a tweet.Ahead of the PM's visit, Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Tuesday discussed with his Gujarat counterpart Vijay Rupani the impact of Cyclone Tauktae in the state. According to ANI, it is the strongest cyclonic storm to impact Gujarat since 1998.The cyclone has also impacted the weather in several parts of Northern India. Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Rajasthan and Delhi are among the states that are likely to witness heavy rainfall in the coming few hours. However, the intensity of the cyclone will weaken in a few hours.Deep Depression (Remnants of Tauktae) over Gujarat region lay centered at 2330 hours IST of the 18th May, 2021 is about 110 km north-northeast of Ahmedabad. It is likely to weaken gradually into a Depression during next 06 hours. pic.twitter.com/SPZHYPdqnt"Deep Depression (Remnants of Tauktae) over Gujarat region lay centered at 2330 hours IST of the 18th May, 2021 is about 110 km north-northeast of Ahmedabad. It is likely to weaken gradually into a Depression during next 06 hours," India Meteorological Department (IMD) tweeted around 1.30am on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-tauktae-pm-modi-to-visit-gujarat-diu-to-take-stock-of-damage-caused-101621384745814.html
19-05-2021||India||Cyclone Tauktae to weaken gradually in next few hours: IMD||Cyclone Tauktae will move North-Northeastwards and weaken gradually into a deep depression in the next three hours, informed the India Meteorological Department on Wednesday.While the Indian Navy continues to carry out its rescue operations near the Western coastline, the meteorological department in a tweet informed, "Deep Depression (Remnants of Tauktae) over Gujarat region lay centered at 2330 hours IST of the 18th May, 2021 is about 110 km north-northeast of Ahmedabad. It is likely to weaken gradually into a Depression during next 06 hours."Cyclone tauktae has impacted the weather conditions in several parts of Northern India. Many areas like Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Rajasthan and Delhi are like to witness rainfall in the coming few hours."Viratnagar, Kotputli, Khairthal, Bhiwari, Mahandipur Balaji, Mahawa, Nadbai, Nagaur, Alwar, Bharatpur, Deeg (Rajasthan) during next 2 hours", tweeted IMD.Areas near Uttar Pradesh include, Bahajoi, Sahaswan, Narora, Debai, Anupshahar, Jahangirabad, Bulandshahar, Gulaoti, Shikohabad, Firozabad, Tundla, Etah, Kasganj, Jalesar, Sikandra Rao, Hathras, Iglas, Aligarh, Khair, Atrauli, Jattari, Khurja, Jajau, Agra, Mathura, Raya, Barsana, Nandgaon (U.P.) Rainfall is likely to take place in Kharkhoda, Hissar, Meham, Rohtak, Siwani, Bhiwani, Jhajjar, Narnaul, Mahendargarh, Kosali, Charkhi Dadri, Mattanhail, Farukhnagar, Bawal, Rewari, Nuh, Sohana, Hodal, Aurangabad, Palwal (Haryana) Meerut, Rampur, Moradabad, Sambhal, Amroha, Siyana, Chandausi as well."19-05-2021; 0020 IST; Light to moderate intensity rain and gusty winds with speed of 30-40 Km/h would continue to occur over and adjoining areas of entire Delhi & NCR (Badurgarh, Gurugram, Faridabad, Ballabhgarh, Noida) Panipat, Gannaur, Sonipat, Gohana", tweeted IMD.Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Tuesday held a conversation with his Gujarat counterpart Vijay Rupani to discuss the impact of Cyclone Tauktae as the cyclonic storm made landfall in the neighbouring state late in the night a day earlier.Prime Minister Narendra Modi will visit Gujarat and Diu on Wednesday to review the situation and damage due to Cyclone Tauktae, informed the Prime Minister's Office.As the cyclone Tauktae causes severe damage to property and lives, the Indian Navy continues its search and rescue operations, providing relief to the affected people.Fishermen are also advised by the concerned authorities to not venture out in the sea in wake of the cyclone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-tauktae-to-weaken-gradually-in-next-few-hours-imd-101621381827247.html
19-05-2021||India||India’s Covid-19 hot spots on recovery road: Data||The punishing second wave of the coronavirus disease is receding in 19 Indian states and Union territories, some of which were its early epicentres, although some new hot spots have emerged in the south and the North-East where infections continue to surge, HT’s analysis of nationwide positivity rates shows.Seven out of every 10 Indians live in the regions seeing an improvement. Among the 19 are Delhi, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Bihar and Uttar Pradesh, some of which were ravaged by the second wave with the health care systems of most being overwhelmed by a rush of hospitalisations.This trend comes as a glimmer of hope even as the Covid-19 toll continue to rise to grim new records. Daily deaths from the disease have remained above the 4,000 mark in the last four days despite a drop in new cases over the past week. To be sure, any drop in case trajectory generally take 14 days to reflect on daily deaths as studies have shown that the median time between someone testing positive for Covid-19 and dying from it is around 13.8 days.Also Read| Covid-19: What you need to know todayThe average weekly positivity rate – proportion of samples tested that return positive for Covid-19 – has gone down in states and UTs that are home to 69% of the country’s population, while 15 states and UTs, home to the remaining 31%, have seen an increase between May 7 and May 17, data shows.Experts said that this drop in positivity rate is largely due to the application of non-pharmaceutical interventions like lockdowns, and that while cases are declining in most regions, actions taken to control the spread of the disease cannot be weakened just yet.Areas in the country’s south and North-East, which fared relatively better than the rest of the country during the worst of the second wave though April, are now seeing positivity rate climb the most. Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and Karnataka, along with north-eastern states such as Meghalaya, Manipur, Sikkim, Tripura and Arunachal Pradesh, feature among the regions that have seen positivity rate rise the most between May 7 and 17.The analysis took the positivity rate data from the first week of May (week ending May 7) as the base for comparison as it was perhaps India’s worst week in terms of cases – the seven-day averages of positivity rate and daily infections both peaked around this time in the country. At the government’s Covid briefing on Tuesday, health ministry joint secretary Lav Agarwal said that daily cases have been declining since May 7.All positivity rate figures mentioned here are seven-day averages as it evens out inaccuracies in testing over weekends.A rising positivity rate in a region indicates that the virus is spreading fast within the community. As a rule of thumb, tracking a region’s positivity rate serves as a good barometer for whether cases are going to increase or decrease in the coming days: a rising positivity rate generally means cases will rise in the immediate future, while a dropping positivity rate tends to precede a drop in new infections.Importantly, this trend has sustained without daily tests going down in the majority of the country. In fact, the number of daily tests in the country have increased 5% between May 7 and May 17 – on average, a total of 1,813,242 samples were tested every day in the country in the past week, against 1,724,665 on May 7.Regions with best improvementDelhi saw India’s biggest change in average positivity rate in the past 10 days – there was a 14.3 percentage point drop between May 7 and May 17 (from 27.4% to 13.1%). It was followed by Chhattisgarh, where the positivity rate dropped 13.2 percentage points, from 25.4% to 12.2% in the same time period, and Haryana, where it dropped 10.4 percentage points.Goa features in the fourth spot in terms of most improved positivity rate (drop of 9.8 percentage points), but despite the drop, the state still has the highest positivity rate in the country. In the past week, more than a third (36.5%) of all samples tested in the state have returned positive for Covid-19. The coastal state has been in the news over the past two weeks due to severe shortage of hospital beds and medical oxygen resulting in dozens of deaths. But a drop in positivity rate offers the region some much-needed light at the end of the tunnel.Also Read| 269 doctors died of Covid-19 in second wave: IMAOther regions that have seen significant improvements in positivity rate are Jharkhand (a fall of 8 percentage points, from 15% to 7.0%), Bihar (down 7.5 percentage points, from 14.8% to 7.2%), Madhya Pradesh ( 19.3% to 12%), Maharashtra (down 6 percentage points from 21.7% to 15.6%) and Uttar Pradesh (down 6 points, from 11.9% to 5.9%). Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra, Bihar and Madhya Pradesh are four of India’s five most populous states – together housing more than 40% of the country’s population.This phenomenon is clearly reflected in the drastic reduction on the load on India’s health care system in these regions. Pleas for help on social media for life-saving resources like hospital beds, medicines, oxygen, even ambulances had become commonplace towards the peak of the outbreak in regions such as Delhi, Maharashtra and UP. Over the past 10 days, the shortage of supply in these regions have dropped.Nagaland, meanwhile, is the only north-eastern state where positivity rate is dropping (down 0.9 percentage points, from 21.7% on May 7 to 20.8% on May 17).States and UTs with rising transmissionA majority of India’s south and the northeast, meanwhile, is at the other end of the spectrum. In Meghalaya, the positivity rate rose from 11.1% to 17.7% between May 7 and May 17 – a rise of 6.7 percentage points, the highest in India. It was followed by Andhra Pradesh, where positivity rate jumped from 18.7% to 24.4% (up 5.8 percentage points), and Tamil Nadu (from 15.2% to 19.8%, up 4.7 percentage points). Manipur (14.2% to 18.3%) and Karnataka (28.4% to 32.4%) both saw positivity rate go up 4.1 percentage points. Sikkim and Karnataka registered the second and third highest positivity rate in the past week – 32.6% and 32.4% respectively. Sikkim has seen the sixth highest rise in positivity rate in the past 10 days – of 3.4 percentage points.Other states with high positivity rate (and rising) are Kerala (up 0.4 percentage points to 26.9%) and Odisha (up 0.4% to 20.9%).One state and two UTs – Mizoram, Lakshadweep and Daman and Diu, Dadra and Nagar Haveli – were excluded from the analysis due to unavailability of consistent testing data.During health ministry’s weekly Covid-19 briefing on Tuesday, Niti Aayog member (health) VK Paul said, “We have to be very mindful that when we are achieving declining positivity rate it is because of the results of what we are doing and that cannot be slackened. We cannot again let this go out of hand again.”Also Read| Efforts on to ramp up Covid vaccine supply: PM Modi to states“In many states the pandemic curve is stabilising, as a result of comprehensive efforts at containment, at testing, restrictions, and all the other efforts that people of those states are carrying out -- the states such as Maharashtra, Kerala, Karnataka, Telangana, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Rajasthan, Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh and so on,” he said. He added that there were still a few states where there continues to be concern such as Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh and West Bengal, among others. “It is a mixed picture but there is overall stabilisation, and what we know from scientific analysis that the reproduction number (R0) is overall below 1 now,” said Paul.Experts, however, say it is too early to let the guard down. “While most governments were reluctant to enforce lockdowns, it appears those measures are now starting to yield results... It is not a good time to celebrate decrease in numbers as we are dealing with an infectious disease and it is way too early to say which direction the spread is going to take, especially since the disease has reached rural and tribal areas where health infrastructure is weak and it won’t be able to test each and every individual there,” said Dr Lalit Kant, former head of epidemiology at the Indian Council of Medical Research.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-covid-19-hot-spots-on-recovery-road-data-101621378119912.html
19-05-2021||India||Efforts on to ramp up Covid vaccine supply: PM Modi to states||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Tuesday efforts were being made to ramp up the supply of Covid-19 vaccines in the country, and added that the Centre was trying to provide states with a 15-day advance schedule of the vaccination programme so they could prepare accordingly.During a virtual interaction with state and district officials, the Prime Minister described the local administration officials as “field commanders” in the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic, the second wave of which has hit the country’s health care infrastructure. He reiterated that localised containment zones, aggressive testing and sharing correct and complete information with the people were crucial weapons to defeat the infectious disease. “All of you have an important role in this war against Corona. You are the field commander of this war in a way, who give shape to the policy, and fight on the ground and take decisions according to the situation,” he said.The interaction was aimed at receiving feedback from the states on the measures taken to reduce the spread of the infection, ramp up medical infrastructure and other initiatives taken by the administrations. The PM also told the administrators that they have the freedom to make changes to any policy announced by the government to make it more effective on the ground. “I want to tell you… if you think that the government policy at the district level needs innovation in the policy to strengthen it, you have the freedom to do so. If you think the innovation that you have done is good for the whole district or the country, it should be sent to the government. If you think there is a need to make any change in the policy, give us that feedback also without any hesitation because the war is such that we all need to think together and innovate together,” the PM said.In the wake of complaints from states over the availability of vaccines, the PM said efforts were being made to ensure that the vaccination drive was strengthened and that a plan was underway to ensure that states get a 15-day advance schedule on how many vaccines doses are available. “Vaccine wastage at all districts must be stopped and optimum utilisation is a must,” he said, adding that all states must alleviate fears about the vaccines, which are a medium of fighting the pandemic. The PM also cautioned that while Covid-19 cases were going up in several states and down in some others, there was a need to remain vigilant even in places where the infections were dipping. “We have to stop the scale of infection from spreading by taking the correct steps such as testing, tracking, isolation and adopting Covid-appropriate behaviour,” he said.Union home minister Amit Shah and health secretary Rajesh Bhushan were also present at the meeting with chief ministers from states such as Himachal Pradesh, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh and Uttarakhand. The district magistrates represented Patna, Bengaluru urban, Indore, Coimbatore, Dehradun, Shimoga and Kolar.Modi also called for more attention in rural areas as well as in far off places. “We have to ensure that there is health infrastructure to meet increasing challenges and increase in cases; this should be done on a priority basis,” he said. He also instructed the administrators to keep up the morale of those on the frontline of the Covid-19 fight and of those in home isolation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/efforts-on-to-ramp-up-covid-vaccine-supply-pm-modi-to-states-101621375967415.html
19-05-2021||India||Newborn recovers from Covid after 18 days in UP hospital||He was born on April 1. On April 25, he contracted Covid-19. On May 13, 18 days later, he was discharged after defeating the disease.It wasn’t easy. By the time the boy was brought to the Nutema hospital in Meerut, he was breathless, had high fever, and had developed pneumonia. It wasn’t immediately clear how the boy was infected.The boy, Nikit, was born to Vikas Duhan, who works in the private sector, and Sarvesh Duhan, a housewife.According to Dr Amit Upadhyay, who was part of the team that treated him, the boy’s lungs were affected by the time he arrived at the hospital. He was administered Remdesivir injection and put on a dose of steroids. In the US, Remdesivir injections are only recommended for use on children older than 12 and weighing at least 40 kg. However, it is being used on children in India where there are no such guidelines. The boy was also administered drugs to keep his blood pressure normal (it was low) and was on mechanical ventilation for seven days.Dr Upadhyay said the infant’s recovery showed that timely and proper treatment could overcome even acute infections. He said that the boy’s oxygen level was 50 on aided supply but that he survived with proper and timely treatment.The Duhans said, “Those 18 days were indeed the most difficult and we are happy he is safe and fully recovered now.”They added that the entire family was praying for the boy’s recovery.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/newborn-recovers-from-covid-after-18-days-in-up-hospital-101621370585790.html
19-05-2021||India||India records 4,522 Covid-19 deaths- the most in one day for any country||More than 4,500 more people lost their lives to Covid-19, the highest number of deaths in a single day for any country during the pandemic, data compiled from across the country on Tuesday showed.The 4,522 fatalities recorded in the most recent 24-hour period surpass the record of 4,468 deaths in the US on January 12. Brazil, the third hardest hit country in the world, recorded 4,211 deaths in a single day on April 6.The second wave of infections is ebbing but experts have said there is likely to now be a spurt in fatalities as people who have been battling for their life from when the cases hit a peak begin to either recover or succumb after prolonged critical care stay.From peaks recorded on May 9, the average number of new cases has decreased by 21% and the test positivity rate – the proportion of samples testing positive in a day – has declined by around 5% percentage points.Although the accuracy of true case and death reporting has varied across states, Maharashtra accounts for close to 84,000 deaths, with Karnataka reporting the next highest numbers at 22,857. The national capital, with 22,111 deaths, has recorded the third highest number of fatalities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-records-4-522-covid-19-deaths-the-most-in-one-day-for-any-country-101621368384777.html
19-05-2021||India||Covid-19 wiped out ‘entire families’ in rural India||After devastating India’s biggest cities, the latest Covid-19 wave is now ravaging rural areas across the world’s second-most populous country. And most villages have no way to fight the virus.In Basi, about 1.5 hours from the capital New Delhi, about three-quarters of the village’s 5,400 people are sick and more than 30 have died in the past three weeks. It has no health-care facilities, no doctors and no oxygen canisters. And unlike India’s social-media literate urban population, residents can’t appeal on Twitter to an army of strangers willing to help.“Most deaths in the village have been caused because there was no oxygen available,” said Sanjeev Kumar, the newly elected head of the farming community. “The sick are being rushed to the district headquarters and those extremely sick patients have to travel about four hours,” he said, adding that many don’t make it in time.It’s a scenario playing out all over India. In interviews with representatives from more than 18 towns and villages in different parts of the country, officials outlined the scale of the carnage — from entire families wiped out to bloated bodies floating down the Ganges River to farmland left untended due to a lack of workers.Many people said the scale of the crisis is much bigger than official numbers reveal, with villagers afraid to leave their homes even if they have fevers and local authorities failing to properly record virus fatalities. India reported a record 4,329 deaths on Tuesday while its total reported cases topped 25 million, according to figures from the Health Ministry.Anger is building both at Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s administration and local authorities for failing to bolster medical infrastructure following a virus wave last year, including securing sufficient supplies of oxygen and vaccines. The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party last month lost local elections in Basi and other parts of Uttar Pradesh — India’s most populous state — just as the country started recording almost 400,000 new cases a day.The sentiment on the ground suggests broader troubles for Modi and fellow BJP leader Yogi Adityanath, the chief minister of Uttar Pradesh who has been mentioned as a possible successor to the prime minister. The state holds elections next year.“We had complete support for Modi and Yogi, but now whatever happens we will vote the BJP out,” Sahab Singh, 72, said in the center of Basi, which was virtually empty. He noted people were too scared to leave their homes.During the recent election to appoint village heads, many poll workers became infected — including Kumarsain Nain, 59, who caught the virus along with his 31-year-old son. Unable to walk and gasping for breath, Nain’s family rushed him last month to a nearby hospital after they were unable to find an ambulance with oxygen support, said another son, Praveen Kumar.“After we reached the hospital, the doctors said he had died, but instead of recording Covid-19 as the cause of death they put cardiac arrest,” Kumar said. “The doctor told us there was no need to check whether my father was Covid-19 positive since he was already dead.”His brother died soon afterward in another clinic about 30 minutes away, at the same time as six other patients who were also on oxygen support. “My suspicion is that hospital ran out of oxygen, which led to the deaths,” Kumar said. “Holding the elections when the government knew that cases were rising and the infection was spreading is a criminal act.”Representatives from both the prime minister’s office and the Health Ministry have not responded to request for comment. Modi addressed the issue on May 14 following a meeting with several chief ministers. “I want to warn you about corona. The infection is spreading fast in villages,” the prime minister said. “Efforts are being taken to deal with this.”Baijayant “Jay” Panda, a senior official with Modi’s BJP, told Bloomberg Television on Monday the latest virus wave has been a “humbling experience,” but pointed to a significant vaccination rollout and the provision of shots to more than 80 countries in a global outreach effort.He defended Modi’s response, saying election authorities made the decision to proceed with polls and states were responsible for building oxygen plants that received federal funding.“It’s not just the prime minister who thought we had overcome the biggest ravages of corona — the consensus in India by early January was that we had done so,” Panda said. “Many of the epidemiologists who are today criticizing are on the record back in October saying the worst was over and that we should not have as many restrictions.”Covid-19 is adding to Modi’s troubles along with a severe economic downturn, rising unemployment and farmer protests against a law perceived to favor big business, according to Nikita Sud, an associate professor in international development at the University of Oxford and author of a book on Hindu nationalism.“It is too simplistic to say that Covid mismanagement spells the turning of the tide for the Modi regime,” Sud said. “However, the regime looks out of its depth for the first time since coming to power in 2014.As leaders in Delhi struggle to contain the crisis, horrifying scenes are playing out across India. Last week in the eastern state of Bihar, residents woke up to find as many as 70 bloated bodies floating in the Ganges River. With crematoriums overflowing as the death toll surges, they feared these bodies were Covid victims whose families could not properly lay them to rest. More corpses have since been reported along the river.Both the federal and state governments “have failed us all,” said Rajesh Sharma, who owns a travel company in the Hindu pilgrimage city of Ujjain in the central state of Madhya Pradesh.“India had a full year to prepare, but except for sending vaccines out of the country for personal credit and glory nothing much was done,” he said. “There are no hospital beds, no medicines. People have been left to die. In Ujjain and around, entire families died in the last two weeks.”In Punjab, a northern state bordering Pakistan, local authorities are asking volunteers among India’s one-million-strong Accredited Social Health Activists to visit every house to urge people to get vaccinated and see if anyone has a fever. While the group is well known for working in harsh conditions to deliver childhood immunizations and basic first aid to villages, the scale of the current crisis is unprecedented, said Balbir, one of the workers.“Many people are so scared they are not even telling anyone about their fever,” she said, asking to be identified by only her first name due to fear of a backash from local authorities in Ludhiana district, where infections are spreading rapidly. “Despite such a huge surge they have still not given us adequate protection: no masks, no gloves, nothing.”Uttarakhand has also been hit hard. The state in the Himalayan foothills saw virus cases jump almost 20 times after it hosted more than nine million people for the Hindu religious festival known as the Kumbh Mela between March 31 and April 24.“There isn’t a house in Rishikesh where people aren’t sick — Haridwar is also in a similar condition,” said Navin Mohan, who helps arrange tours to the holy towns on the banks of the Ganges.“The pandemic is now truly beyond control,” Mohan said. “Thousands are dying and will die in the next few weeks. The government is fudging numbers, but the reality is visible to everyone.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-wiped-out-entire-families-in-rural-india-101621362215330.html
19-05-2021||India||Indian embassy urges students in US to counter ‘bias’||The Indian embassy in Washington reached out to Indians studying in the US in an effort to help counter the purported “biased and negative narrative” against the country in the international media amid a devastating second wave of Covid-19 infections.The outreach was made through the embassy’s “Student Hub”, an official initiative that is meant to “engage Indian students studying in the United States in India’s development”. The Student Hub’s website describes it as a platform for students to “connect, collaborate, and converse” with each other and the embassy.In the section of the website detailing how the students can get involved, the embassy has invited Indian students in the US to “contribute their time and ideas for the upcoming Fall 2021 Verticals in the three core areas” – climate action, India in the news, and grassroots learnings.According to screenshots of the website tweeted by several persons on Tuesday, including Shiv Sena leader and Rajya Sabha MP Priyanka Chaturvedi, the section seeking volunteers for “India in the news” stated: “If you are into current affairs or international affairs, if you are concerned about how India is portrayed in the media whether in print, online, or social media platforms, if you would like to bring to light such portrayals and course correct the current biased and negative narrative against India in the global scenarios, this is where you click.”However, after the screenshots were widely shared on Tuesday, the text in this section read: “If you are into current affairs or international affairs, are interested in how India is portrayed in the media – whether in print, online, or social media platforms and would like to bring to light such portrayals and understand the story behind the news, join us.”There was no word from Indian officials on the outreach to Indian students regarding foreign media’s portrayal of the country.Clicking on the link for volunteers interested on working on “India in the news” leads to a Google Documents form that includes the question: “List any study or project that you may have been involved with regarding India in the News, Bias in the US Media viz India.”Other questions in the form focus on how much time students can devote to volunteering, and their interest in “being a Campus Lead and motivating other students from your campus and bringing them onboard to the Student Hub”.The government has been critical of the foreign media’s coverage of its response to the second wave of Covid-19 infections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-embassy-urges-students-in-us-to-counter-bias-101621364474130.html
19-05-2021||India||Row in UP after govt razes ‘mosque’, Waqf board to move HC||Controversy broke out in Uttar Pradesh’s Barabanki town on Tuesday over the demolition of a decades-old structure, with Muslim groups saying it was the illegal razing of a mosque and the local administration claiming it was residential encroachment on government land.The structure was razed in Ram Sanehi Ghat tehsil area of Barabanki on Monday amid police deployment. The tehsil is located on a highway on the Barabanki-Ayodhya border.Barabanki district magistrate Adarsh Singh said the structure was constructed illegally on government land by unidentified people who escaped when a notice was sent on March 15. The administration took possession of the structure on March 18 and it was demolished on Monday after due orders from the sub-divisional magistrate’s court, he added.But the UP Sunni Central Waqf Board said it was a 100-year-old mosque and said it will approach the Allahabad high court demanding restoration of the mosque, a high level judicial inquiry and action against the officers concerned.“It is high handedness of the local administration,” said board chairman Zufar Ahmad Faruqi. A Barabanki resident and lawyer, Iqbal Naseem Nomani Dariyabadi, said he was offering namaz at the mosque for the past three decades. Dariyabadi said he was unable to understand the motive behind the hurried action during the pandemic.A district official said the “illegal structure” was first flagged during a verification drive in March. “Three people living there escaped when asked to show their identity proof,” he added.In a video, Barabanki district magistrate Adarsh Singh called the demolished structure as a “residential place that was constructed illegally” on the tehsil premises in front of the house of SDM (Ram Sanehi Ghat).“The occupants escaped from there when a notice was sent to them to prove their ownership on March 15, 2021. The administration took possession of the structure on March 18, 2021,” he added.He said the occupants were provided sufficient time to prove their ownership after which the SDM court issued that the structure was constructed illegally and subsequently the illegal structure was removed on Monday (May 17, 2021) as per the legal proceedings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/row-in-up-after-govt-razes-mosque-waqf-board-to-move-hc-101621364414653.html
19-05-2021||India||5 cops suspended over cremation with fuel, tyres in UP’s Ballia||The administration of Uttar Pradesh’s Ballia district has suspended five police personnel after an unclaimed body was cremated at a ghat using tyre and petrol along with wood in their presence, a senior police officer said on Tuesday.The action came after a video of the incident surfaced on social media on Sunday. The body had been fished out of the Ganga in Maldepur village of Ballia town days ago, the officer added.A group of locals had seen the body and informed the police. Thereafter, a police team reached the spot and performed the last rites. The video showing the cremation of the body in the presence of five police constables went viral on Sunday. “A man was pouring petrol on the pyre,” said the officer.“Taking cognizance of the video exposing the insensitive act of the five police personnel, action was taken. A probe has been ordered into the matter,” said Vipin Tada, SP (Ballia).He said additional superintendent of police (Ballia), Sanjay Kumar, has been instructed to conduct the probe and submit a report.Last week, over two dozen bodies were found floating in the Ganga in Bharauli and Ujiyar areas of Ballia. Thereafter, the bodies were fished out and their last rites were performed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5-cops-suspended-over-cremation-with-fuel-tyres-in-up-s-ballia-101621364234074.html
19-05-2021||India||E-registration for travelling causes traffic chaos on Chennai roads||Chennai: Anna Salai, the main arterial road in Chennai, witnessed traffic jams and chaos on Tuesday as police were stopping motorists to check if they had e-registration, which has been made mandatory for travel by the Chennai Police during the ongoing lockdown. The Tamil Nadu government has also made e-registration mandatory for inter and intra district travel as well as for those entering the state during the lockdown, which is in force amid rising Covid-19 cases. In an attempt to intensify the implementation of the lockdown, the Greater Chennai Police issued a notice late Monday night making e-registrations (auto generated) mandatory for people to commute from one sector of a police station limit to another between 6 am and 10 am when people are allowed to step out to buy essentials. Each police station has been divided into three sectors, with a total of 348 sectors being demarcated for Chennai. Barricades were put up on roads to demarcate sectors, said police. While people can move around to buy essentials within their own sector, they require an e-registration to enter another sector. According to police, 153 vehicle checks were established to connect all important junctions and cover all police limits. “There were at least a thousand vehicles, and many weren’t aware about the e-registration,” an essential service worker, who didn’t wish to be named, said, adding, “We don’t know why so many are on the road and where they’re going but before the rule came into effect some notice time should have been given.” Shankar Jiwal, commissioner of police, Chennai, said the rationale behind rolling out the new rule was to prevent people using the 6-10 am window as a loophole to commute to faraway places defeating the purpose of a lockdown. He, however, admitted that the order came in late. “After studying which area is self-sufficient where all services of purchasing essentials like vegetables, groceries, and meat are available, we divided a police station into two or three (sectors),” Jiwal said. “In the last three days, we studied about 20 junctions for one hour in the morning and one hour in the evening to ascertain the purpose of people’s commute. Under the pretext of buying essentials, people were going to faraway places. This is causing a lot of movement. The infection spreads because they communicate and mingle with people in one area and bring it back to their communities. Our cases aren’t going down. So we segregated these areas. We advise people to purchase within their own areas,” Jiwal said, adding that the traffic seen on Tuesday will slowly come down as people will realise the importance of not commuting without purpose. “Since there is crowding in a place that has more sectors, we are going to make traffic two-lanes. One will be for ambulances and essential service providers while the other will be for people with valid e-registrations. Defaulters will be sent back. If people unnecessarily loiter, we will also seise vehicles,” the commissioner said. While ambulances are exempted from any restrictions, Jiwal said, food delivery executives, state and central government staff, bank employees will not be restricted to their police-marked sectors. “Those who are exempted in the government order can move anywhere with their ID cards,” he said. “E-registration is only for three categories: death-related, medical emergencies, elderly care. For instance, if one has to commute to take care of their kin in the hospital in another locality, they have to apply for e-registration.” E-commerce like Swiggy, Zomanto, Dunzo are registered under the industry category. Media requires an accredited DIPR card to be allowed. Tamil Nadu will remain under lockdown till May 24 amid a Covid-19 surge across the state. On Tuesday, the state reported 33,059 new infections, taking the active caseload to 242,929. Chennai accounted for 6,016 new cases, which pushed its active caseload to 48,455. A total of 364 and 85 fatalities were reported in Tamil Nadu and Chennai, taking the toll to 18,369 and 5,939, respectively, according to the state health department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/eregistration-for-travelling-causes-traffic-chaos-on-chennai-roads-101621364173999.html
19-05-2021||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||It’s important to remember that till late 2019 or early 2020, the world really didn’t know of the existence of the Sars-CoV-2 virus that causes the coronavirus disease. Since then, our knowledge of this virus has expanded at an unprecedented rate.Pharma companies, scientists and researchers have not had much luck with therapeutics, either new or repurposed. They have, however, made up for this by coming up with a handful of vaccines that work – and in record time. Still, the absence of therapeutics (so far) means a continued search – and a bunch of traditional, homegrown, and experimental therapies are being pitched, not just by those who learn at the shiny altar of WhatsApp University, but even doctors who should know better, and lawmakers and administrators who have a responsibility to not pitch or endorse (if only by their silence) miracle cures that are often packaged snake oil.It’s easy to criticise a lawmaker who says a regular dose of cow urine keeps her safe from Covid-19, just as it is a government department that claims a repurposed decades-old malaria drug (that didn’t work on malaria) actually cures Covid-19. But most people have been worst served by allopathic drugs. A preamble on how drugs are tested for efficacy and safety may be required here. They can be tested in silico (or through a computer simulation); in vitro (in a petri dish in the lab); and in vivo (in a human body).Also Read| No new Covid strain detected here, Singapore health ministry counters KejriwalThe fact that Covid-19 was a new disease, and the intensity of the first wave in some countries (subsequent waves would go on to be worse, but no one knew this back then) prompted a desperate search for drugs, in some ways made it acceptable to lower the bar for them. For instance, it is highly unlikely that a drug that works only in vitro will ever be allowed for widespread use (even under an emergency use authorisation), but that’s just what has happened with ivermectin (especially in India). This is one of those drugs that does very well in vitro (against the dengue, Zika, and yellow fever viruses, among other pathogens), but fails to replicate that in vivo (there can be countless reasons for this, including the body’s ability to absorb the drug). Think of it as a Ranji Trophy player pushed into Test cricket (and on a wet and windy morning at Trent Bridge). Unfortunately, subsequent in vivo studies have shown that ivermectin does not seem to help someone infected with Covid-19. That’s also true of Favipiravir, Itolizumab, Doxycycline, even 2-DG.There may eventually emerge well-conducted human clinical trials that show that some of these do actually work, but current scientific evidence (and I use the term carefully, because in this era of alternative facts, there is also alternative scientific evidence) does not justify the enthusiasm with which these drugs are being prescribed, and consumed. More worryingly, drug regulators around the world (and in India) are being far too quick (and worse, inconsistent) in their approval of such therapies, even if for emergency use.Also Read| Biden pledges US support as COVAX faces shortfall of 140 million dosesThere’s usually a price to pay for the misuse of drugs, even if this isn’t immediate. One study has shown that there is a link between the use of convalescent plasma – the Indian Council of Medical Research finally removed it from the treatment protocol on May 17 – and mutations in the Sars-CoV-2 virus (more research is needed before this can be conclusively said, though). And many doctors believe (as do I) that there is a clear link between the overuse of steroids in Covid treatment and the growing incidence of mucormycosis, or the black fungus.The damage caused by Covid-19 is significant, but it would be a pity if, in our justifiable urgency to get the better of the coronavirus disease, science- and evidence-based medicine is a casualty.Also Read| Less than 2% population affected by Covid-19, 98% still vulnerable: GovtPS: There’s been a lot of talk about the third wave of Covid-19 in India affecting children more than it does any other segment of the population. It’s important to point out that this is a generic threat assessment. Since it is unlikely that children (those under the age of 18 years) will be vaccinated by the time a third wave breaks, it is obvious that they are as much at risk as any other unvaccinated group. There’s also no data or research that suggests that children are suddenly more vulnerable to the SARS-CoV-2 virus that causes Covid-19, or any of its variants, than they always were (so, the bit about children rarely dying from Covid-19, or even needing to be hospitalised remains true) . That said, it makes sense to vaccinate them, and as early as possible.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-what-you-need-to-know-today-101621363602291.html
19-05-2021||India||Videos, witnesses in Narada case show 4 TMC leaders took cash: CBI sleuths||Videos made during the sting operation, voice samples, and statements from witnesses ostensibly confirmed that Trinamool Congress leaders Subrata Mukherjee, Firhad Hakim, Madan Mitra and former Kolkata mayor Sovan Chatterjee took cash from journalist Mathew Samuel (who was pretending to be a businessman seeking to further his interests) in 2014, according to details of the investigation and the charge sheet shared with HT by two Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) officials.The four were arrested on Monday by the federal agency. TMC has raised questions about the lack of action against Mukul Roy and Suvendu Adhikari, formerly with the party, who have since defected to the Bharatiya Janata Party, but CBI officials said there was no clear evidence against the former, and that the agency is still awaiting the Lok Sabha speaker’s permission, sought in 2019 (Adhikari was elected to the Lok Sabha in 2014, but resigned in 2016) to proceed against him.Also Read| Narada sting: Two Bengal ministers spent night in jail as HC stayed bailCBI began investigating the sting, which came to light in 2016, just ahead of the assembly elections in the state, in April 2017 by registering an FIR against Mukul Roy (now a BJP vice president), Madan Mitra, Sultan Ahmed, Iqbal Ahmed, Firhad Hakim, Sougata Roy, Kakoli Ghosh Dastidar, Prasun Banerjee, Suvendu Adhikari (now in the BJP and the leader of the Opposition in West Bengal), Sovan Chatterjee, Subrata Mukherjee, IPS officer SMH Meerza, and Aparupa Poddar.The investigation was around whether, as shown in the sting, these people took bribes from Samuel, who approached them in 2014 posing as Santosh Shankaran, representative of M/s Impex Consultancy, Chennai, a fictitious firm, seeking favours from them to further the business interests of the company in the state.During investigation, CBI said it found two video files on Madan Mitra, dated April 24 and April 25, 2014. “In the second video file, it is found that Samuel offered money to Mitra in the presence of Syed Tazdar Ali Meerza, and kept the bundle of currency notes on a bed in front of Mitra, and said it was ₹5 lakh. Mitra then asked somebody to pick up the money,” said one of the CBI officers cited in the first instance, quoting details of the charge sheet filed on Monday. This person asked not to be named.Similarly, a video of Firhad Hakim from May 2, 2014 ostensibly revealed that Samuel offered him ₹5 lakh. “Hakim asked him to keep that with himself and then called Sudhendu Samanta, joint secretary of Chetala Agrani Club, who was present in the adjoining room. When Samanta arrived, Hakim directed him to accept the money in another room and deposit it in an account,” said a second officer who asked not to be named, also citing details from the charge sheet.This money, according to a CBI investigation, was deposited in the account of Chetala Agrani Club by Samanta on May 11, 2014, showing the donation in the name of “a well wisher from Chennai”. It also reflects in the Income Tax Return of the club for financial year 2014-15, the agency’s officers said.On Sovan Chatterje, the CBI officers said it has two video files, dated April 16 and May 1, 2014. In the video from April 16, Sovan Chatterjee is apparently seen sitting in his office chamber when Samuel approaches him and offers to support TMC in the elections. “During conversations, Samuel offered him ₹4lakh in bundles of currency notes which Chatterjee accepted and wrapped in a small towel and kept it on his side,” the second officer added. Chatterjee quit TMC to join BJP last year but left in March.Also Read| Narada case: TMC targets Bengal Guv Dhankhar over prosecution sanctionSimilarly, Samuel approached Subrata Mukherjee on April 13, 2014 and introduced himself as liaison agent of some companies and offered to help in the election, the officer added. “Samuel handed over ₹4 lakh to Mukherjee who accepted the same in the presence of a party worker,” he said.The CBI charge sheet mentions that all four have been identified by their pictures and voices from the corresponding video files by independent witnesses. CBI took voice samples of all the accused, except Iqbal Ahmed, who declined to cooperate.All the four arrested leaders have denied any wrongdoing.According to the officers cited above, the agency, however, has not found any direct evidence that Mukul Roy, a former TMC leader who switched to Bharatiya Janata Party in 2017, took a bribe.“We have 2-3 videos in which Samuel is seen offering him money, but Mukul Roy didn’t take it. He asked Samuel to meet IPS officer Meerza. We have videos of Meerza taking the money but he never admitted that it was on behalf of Mukul Roy. Unless we have fresh evidence which can prove otherwise, there is only suspicion against Roy but no hard evidence,” said a third CBI officer, who didn’t want to be named.On Monday, following the arrest of the four TMC leaders, party spokesperson Kunal Ghosh had said: “Why isn’t Mukul Roy, vice president of BJP, being arrested? He was also seen in the Narada sting operation video saying that the money be given to an IPS officer.”As for Adhikari and three other TMC leaders, Saugata Roy, Kakoli Ghosh and Prasun Banerjee, CBI officials said the investigation is over but that they are waiting for a prosecution sanction from the Lok Sabha speaker. Roy, Ghosh and Banerjee are all Lok Sabha members.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/videos-witnesses-in-narada-case-show-4-tmc-leaders-took-cash-cbi-sleuths-101621364054751.html
19-05-2021||India||Rebel YSR Cong MP, held by CID, to remain in hospital till Friday||Hyderabad: Rebel YSR Congress party Member of Parliament Kanumuri Raghurama Krishnam Raju, who complained of cardiac issues and alleged police torture after he was arrested by the Andhra Pradesh Crime Investigation Department (CID) last week, will remain under supervision of doctors at Military Hospital in Secunderabad till Friday, officials said.Last Saturday, the MP from Narasapuram constituency in West Godavari district was sent to a 14-day judicial custody by a local court in Guntur after he was arrested on sedition charges. On Monday, the Supreme Court directed that Raju be medically examined at the army hospital and kept his bail plea for hearing on Friday. According to a defence medical officer familiar with the development, Raju underwent a medical examination by a board of three doctors constituted by the commandant of the medical hospital. The medical examination was conducted under the supervision of Telangana high court registrar D Nagarjuna who was appointed as a judicial officer by the high court chief justice as per directions of the top court. “The medical examination was videographed. His blood samples were taken for conducting various tests. His health condition is stable. After obtaining all medical examination reports, the medical board will submit a report on Raju’s health status to the Supreme Court in a sealed cover,” the official cited above said. The official said that Raju had complained of difficulty in walking due to alleged custodial torture by Andhra police. His statement was recorded by the doctors. “He had swelling on his right leg and he was administered painkillers for treating the inflammation,” the official said. The official added that Raju would have to remain in the hospital till Friday for observation and medical care. His period of stay in the hospital would be treated as judicial custody which would end on May 28. In his plea to the Supreme Court, Raju claimed that he was suffering from cardiac issues after having undergone a bypass surgery recently. The legislator also alleged that he was beaten and tortured in police custody.Following a direction from the apex court, the Andhra Pradesh government shifted Raju to the Military Hospital in Secunderabad around midnight on Monday. Meanwhile, military officials in the hospital refused permission to Raju’s son K Bharat to visit his father. The officials categorically told him that there was no permission for Raju’s family members to meet or see him. “It is unfortunate that I was not permitted to see my father. Since it was the Supreme Court order, I have to follow it,” Bharat said. Raju was arrested on May 14 and a day later, his bail plea was dismissed by the Andhra Pradesh high court on the ground that the same ought to be moved before the sessions court. The Crime Investigation Department (CID) has accused him of delivering hate speeches against certain communities and promoting disaffection against the government.Although Raju is an MP representing the YSR Congress Party from Narasapuram constituency, he has been critical of the party leadership and the state government and even demanded cancellation of bail granted to chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy in a corruption case. Last year, the Delhi high court ordered Y-category security cover for the MP in view of threats that followed his anti-party rant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rebel-ysr-cong-mp-held-by-cid-to-remain-in-hospital-till-friday-101621363935137.html
19-05-2021||India||Rebel Cong MLA resigns from Raj assembly||Jaipur/Barmer: Disgruntled Congress MLA from Gudamalani in Barmer, Hemaram Choudhary, who belongs to former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot’s camp, on Tuesday sent his resignation to assembly speaker C P Joshi.While the reason behind his resignation could not be immediately ascertained, it is learnt that he was upset for being sidelined in the party. “I have submitted my resignation to the Speaker, C P Joshi and chief minister Ashok Gehlot. I had resigned earlier, but it was not accepted. I have been an MLA for 2.5 years, and have done enough politics. I will speak on the reason behind the resignation once it is accepted,” he told reporters.The six-time legislator was among the 19 MLAs who had rebelled against the leadership of chief minister Ashok Gehlot last year.A senior Congress leader familiar with the development, on condition of anonymity, said Choudhary was having differences with local leaders and had raised the issue of transfer and posting of officials on request of other MLAs with the state leaders. In 2019, Choudhary had tendered his resignation in the first assembly session which was called after the government formation. The Congress believed that he was miffed for not being included in the Gehlot cabinet but was pacified by senior leaders later. When he was the revenue minister in 2013, Choudhary had tendered his resignation from the Cabinet, apparently after he was upset over the shifting of an oil refinery site from Lilala to Pachpadra in Barmer. Political analyst Manish Godha said since Choudhary had tendered his resignation on earlier occasions too, it is better for him to clear the reason behind the move – is it the local problem or is it to begin another political crisis. “The possibilities of pressure politics cannot be ruled out as the disgruntled faction is asking for a cabinet shuffle and political appointments,” he said. Deputy leader of opposition Rajendra Rathore said the resignation showed that there is no internal democracy in the Congress. “Such is the situation that they don’t know when the government’s ship may sink. This government has also failed to manage corona,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rebel-cong-mla-resigns-from-raj-assembly-101621363754561.html
19-05-2021||India||Data reveals Karnataka Police lost almost 1 cop daily to 2nd wave of Covid-19||In the second wave of the pandemic, Karnataka Police has lost 40 personnel to Covid-19 between April 1 and May 13, almost a death every day, according to the state police documents accessed by Hindustan Times. The latest among those who succumbed to the infection was 28-year-old police sub-inspector Shamili, attached to the Dakshina Kannada police department, who died on Tuesday while undergoing treatment at a hospital, taking the total deaths to 41. Shamili was seven months pregnant.Dakshina Kannada Superintendent of Police Rishikesh Sonwane said she was undergoing treatment at RM Jalappa Hospital in Kolar. “She was seven months pregnant. Due to pregnancy, she was not vaccinated,” he said.Shamili was the youngest police officer to die due to Covid-19 in the second wave, which has wreaked havoc in Karnataka and across the country. A closer look at the document shows that in the second wave, out of the 41 police officials who died, four were under the age of 35 while 27 did not have any comorbidities.According to the internal document of the police department, a copy which is available with Hindustan Times, 4,203 personnel, or 4% of the total police force, have contracted the virus in the 48 days. Of these, 1,508 are active cases.In the second wave, the maximum number of Covid-19 cases among police personnel were reported in Bengaluru (1,439), followed by Mysuru (257) and Tumkur (216). Ballari, Kalburgi, Hassan police departments reported 148, 140 and 123 cases, respectively. Bengaluru Police also reported the highest number of deaths. Of the 41 deaths among police personnel, 13 were reported in Bengaluru alone.The state police chief, DG&IGP Praveen Sood told HT that because of vaccination they have been able to control the number of cases and fatalities in the second wave. “In the first wave last year, we lost 103 police officials and more than 9,600 policemen and women were infected. However, this time, we have made an effort to ensure the entire department is vaccinated,” said Sood.According to Sood, out of the 87,917 police officials in the state, 96% (84,924) have received the first dose of the vaccine, while 82% (72,648 police personnel) have received the second dose. Out of the 2,993 remaining, 2,557 are medically unfit for vaccination and 436 personnel are yet to get the vaccine.The state police chief admitted that among those who are yet to receive the vaccine, some have reservations. “Some don’t want to get the vaccine because of the forwards they have seen on social media. We are trying to convince them to get the vaccine at the earliest,” he added.On Tuesday, paying tribute to the 28-year-old sub-inspector, Sood tweeted: “Youngest member of the police family to succumb to Covid. 28-year-old, PSI Shamili of Kolar, attached to DK district lost her battle with COVID. May her soul rest in peace. But it could be any of us. Please cooperate with the police, stay home and stay safe.”At the same time, data released by the Indian Medical Association (IMA) said the state has lost eight doctors to Covid-19 during the second wave of the pandemic. IMA said on Tuesday that the country has lost 270 doctors in the second wave, which has been more deadly and fast-spreading.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/41-cops-died-of-covid-in-2nd-wave-karnataka-police-data-101621363753987.html
19-05-2021||India||Will carry out PM’s advice on Covid-19: K’taka CM||Bengaluru: The Karnataka government on Tuesday said it will look to implement suggestions made by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to localise solutions and ensure all important officials in the district work as “field commanders” to fight the coronavirus pandemic.After a video conference with the Prime Minister, Karnataka home minister Basavaraj Bommai told reporters here that the main intent is to localise and implement guidelines with any improvisations, if required. “All important people in the district, it could be officials, politicians, representatives of the people, DCs (deputy commissioners), DHO (district health officer) among other officers, you have to work as the field commander,” Bommai said.The minister said officials must give a local context to orders from above and implement it. “Localise the main intent with any small changes. Make some small changes as per requirements,” he said.Modi on Tuesday interacted with various officials from district administration across several states, including Karnataka, and proposed to localise solutions to keep the virus at bay.“The number of districts in our country are equally different. In a way, every district has its own different challenges. You understand the challenges of your district much better. So when your district wins, the country wins. When your district beats corona, the country defeats corona,” he said in his interaction.Modi also interacted with the local administration of 46 districts across 10 states, of which 17 districts were from Karnataka, according to the chief minister’s office (CMO).“What are our weapons against this virus? Our weapons are local containment zones, aggressive testing and correct and complete information to the people,” Modi said.The prime minister also suggested that children be made aware of the coronavirus through cartoons and comic books in the local language.Experts have indicated that the imminent third wave of infections is likely to impact children more since this section is yet to be vaccinated.The meeting with the Prime Minister comes at a time when the Covid-19 surge in Karnataka has witnessed a shift towards rural and semi-urban areas where the healthcare infrastructure is comparatively far more inadequate.The 29 districts of Karnataka, excluding Bengaluru, reported 21,633 new infections of the total 30,309 across the state on Tuesday, according to the daily health bulletin of the state health department.The focus of successive governments on Bengaluru, Karnataka’s biggest revenue and employment generator, has left a significant portion of the state backward. The northern districts in the state are among the most backward in the country and also comprise the most arid regions after Rajasthan.Bommai said Modi asked the administration’s to use their healthcare infrastructure “judiciously” while also taking steps to increase capabilities.The district administration in Karnataka have tried to implement localised solutions to contain the spread of the pandemic in their respective regions to avoid any disaster like in Bengaluru, where shortage of oxygen, hospital beds, medicines and space in crematoriums have only added to the miseries.Several villages in Karnataka have decided on their own not to allow outsiders as means to keep them insulated from any chance of exposure to the virus.Meanwhile, the state’s vaccination drive has also hit a roadblock amid acute shortage of doses of both Covishield and Covaxin.“We have brought the issue of shortage of oxygen and vaccines to the government’s attention,” Gaurav Gupta, chief commissioner of Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (city’s civic body), said, after participating in the video conference.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-carry-out-pm-s-advice-on-covid-19-k-taka-cm-101621363634096.html
19-05-2021||India||INX case: Delhi HC stays trial court proceedings||New Delhi: The Delhi High Court on Tuesday stayed the trial court proceedings in the CBI’s INX Media corruption case where Congress leader P Chidambaram and his son Karti have been named as accused along with others.Justice Suresh Kumar Kait sought the response of Chidambaram and others on CBI’s plea challenging the trial court order of March 5 directing supply of certain documents to all the accused. The city court in that order also allowed the accused to inspect records pertaining to the case in CBI’s repository.“Proceedings in the present case in the trial court shall remain stayed,” Justice Kait said while posting the matter for August 9.The agency said the trial court’s order was likely to subvert the probe by allowing the acused to interfere in the agency’s processes.Advocate Anupam S Sharma, appearing for CBI, told the court that there is no provision in CrPC which “casts a duty upon the investigating agency to forward to court documents on which it does not rely upon”.He said that the trial court has got beyond its jurisdiction as there is no provision in CrPC which empowers the Magistrate to allow the accused to inspect the documents which are neither filed in court nor relied upon by the prosecution.CBI registered its case on May 15, 2017, alleging irregularities in a Foreign Investment Promotion Board clearance granted to INX Media group for receiving overseas funds of ₹305 crore in 2007 during Chidambaram’s tenure as finance minister. Thereafter, ED had lodged the money laundering case.P Chidambaram was arrested by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) in the INX Media corruption case on August 21, 2019. On October 16, 2019, ED arrested him in a related money-laundering case.Six days later, on October 22, the apex court granted bail to Chidambaram in the case lodged by CBI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/inx-case-hc-stays-trial-court-proceedings-101621363575559.html
19-05-2021||India||Did not export Covid-19 vaccines at cost to India: SII||The Serum Institute of India (SII) did not export vaccines “at the cost of the people in India”, its chief executive officer (CEO) Adar Poonawalla said in a statement on Tuesday, amid growing criticism aimed at the government and vaccine makers for the million of doses that were exported before the second wave hit.Poonawalla also said SII may resume the export of coronavirus vaccine Covishield by end of the year.“SII has delivered more than 200 million doses, even though we received EUA (emergency use authorisation) two months after the US pharma companies. If we look at total doses produced and delivered, we rank amongst the top three in the world. We continue to scale up manufacturing and prioritise India. We also hope to start delivering to COVAX and other countries by the end of this year,” the statement read.“We would like to reiterate that we have never exported vaccines at the cost of the people in India and remain committed to do everything we can in support of the vaccination drive in the country,” the statement added.The SII statement came amid intense discussions between the Centre and Indian vaccine manufacturers on the decision to export the vaccines.SII locally manufactures Oxford-AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine under the brand name Covishield. The company currently has the capacity to produce about 60 million doses a month and intends to ramp it up to about 100 million doses a month in the next couple of months.According to SII, there was a large stockpile of vaccine doses in January. India’s vaccination drive began successfully and the number of daily cases recorded then were at an all-time low. At that stage, most people, including health experts, believed that the country was turning the tide on the pandemic.Around the same time, several other countries in the world were facing an acute crisis and were in desperate need of help.“Our Government extended support wherever possible during this period. It is this spirit that had initially led to cooperation between countries when the virus first emerged in the beginning of 2020. The cooperation between countries also forms the basis for us getting access to technology and aid for healthcare. Today, it is this reciprocity, where India has helped other countries with the supply of HCQ and vaccine exports, that has in turn led to support from other countries. There has been intense discussion,” the statement read.“We must also understand that this pandemic is not limited by geographic or political boundaries. We will not be safe until everyone globally is able to defeat this virus. Further, as part of our global alliances, we also had commitments to COVAX, so that they could distribute the vaccines around the world to end the pandemic.According to Poonawalla, another important factor that people failed to realise is that India is amongst the two most populous countries in the world, and that a vaccination drive for such a large population cannot be completed in a span of two to three months as there are several factors and challenges involved.“That said, it would take two-three years for the entire world population to get fully vaccinated… We have been working with the government tirelessly to do our best for humanity and will continue in the same spirit…,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/did-not-export-vaccines-at-cost-to-india-sii-101621363514724.html
19-05-2021||India||Govt procures 30% more wheat from farmers than last year||The government has procured 36.6 million tonne of wheat so far in the current season, which is nearly 30% more than the quantity bought from farmers during the corresponding period last year, food ministry data shows. This trend suggests that foodgrain stocks are poised to be more than what is required for subsidised distribution among the poor through the public distribution system or PDS.The government’s procurement operations have covered nearly 3.7 million farmers, who have been paid a total minimum support price (MSP) of ₹72,406 crore, the government figures show. Procurement operations refer to the state-run food agencies’ buying of farm produce at federally fixed floor prices.Procurement of rabi, or winter-sown, produce opened on April 1 with the government setting a target of buying 42.7 million tonne of wheat during the current season to be held in state-owned granaries. The wheat procurement target is about 9.5% higher than quantity procured during the last rabi season.In a normal year, nearly 25-260 million tonne of wheat is required for PDS. In 2020, 10 million tonne was additionally given for free under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana (PMGKAY) to alleviate distress caused by the pandemic.Nearly 800 million people qualify for subsidised foodgrains under the PDS, who are also being given additional free grains of 5 kg per person under the PMGKAY.Wheat procurement is still under way in states such as Punjab, Haryana and Madhya Pradesh. To be sure, wheat production is projected to be a record 109.2 million tonne during 2021-22, according to agriculture’s ministry second of the four quarterly advance estimates issued in February. The government has also procured about 74.2 million tonne of paddy in the current season.Given the increasing levels of procurement, activists say the government ought to expand the PDS to cover more beneficiaries.“The government is successively procuring more wheat. Population has increased since the National Food Security Act was passed in 2013, which made 67% of the population eligible for PDS grains. We therefore want a universalised PDS,” said Aysha, a Right to Food activist, who goes by one name.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-procures-30-more-wheat-from-farmers-than-last-year-101621363515290.html
19-05-2021||India||After Tauktae, IMD warns of cyclone in Bay of Bengal||After Tauktae, India could see another cyclone next week, this time in the Bay of Bengal region. A low-pressure area is likely to form around May 23 that might intensify into a depression and a cyclone, India Meteorological Department (IMD) has warned.Sunitha Devi, who monitors cyclones at IMD, said a bulletin to this effect has been released, but a forecast will be made only after there is more clarity.Devi said the atmospheric and oceanic conditions in the Bay of Bengal are also favourable for cyclone formation just like in the Arabian Sea, with the sea surface temperature in the former being around 31 degrees Celsius, which is above normal by 1-2 degrees Celsius.Earlier on May 13, Regional Specialised Meteorological Centre in Delhi had talked about the “low probability” of cyclone formation “over east central and adjoining northeast Bay of Bengal” towards the latter half of the second week following it.But Mahesh Palawat, vice president, climate change and meteorology at Skymet Weather (a private company that’s into weather forecasting) thinks India may be spared another devastation. “A low-pressure area is developing. It may intensify into a depression or a cyclone. As of now, the models are indicating that it is likely to move towards Myanmar and not towards the Indian coast,” he said.If a cyclone indeed forms, it will be called Yaas, a name coined by Oman.Meanwhile, Tauktae has weakened to a cyclonic storm after ravaging the west coast. On Tuesday afternoon, it lay centred over Saurashtra, 190 km south-southwest of Dessa and 105 km south southwest of Ahmedabad. Its intensity at the centre, or the ‘eye’, remained between 75 and 85 km/hr, with gusts of up to 95 km/hr. When it had made landfall on Monday night, the intensity at the centre was between 160 and 170 km/hr with gusts of up to 190 km/hr.But the weakened system is now likely to interact with an approaching western disturbance and cause widespread rain and thunderstorms over the western Himalayan region and adjoining plains of northwest India between May 19 and 20. There will be isolated heavy to over heavy rain over Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi and West Uttar Pradesh on May 19, and heavy rain at isolated places in Punjab on the same day. Isolated extremely heavy showers are also likely over Uttarakhand on May 19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-tauktae-imd-warns-of-cyclone-in-bay-of-bengal-101621363454012.html
19-05-2021||India||Cyclone Tauktae will cause rain, no serious damage now: NDRF||Cyclone Tauktae has died down from very severe storm to a depression scattered over Gujarat and Rajasthan which will mainly cause rains now and no other serious damage, S N Pradhan, director general of National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) said on Tuesday evening.Asserting that the worst is over, Pradhan said 46 teams of NDRF are still stationed in the region to clear the debris, fallen trees, and poles and assist the authorities in restoration of tracks.The Gujarat government has informed the NDRF that there have been no deaths.“It was very important to clear the roads and vital arteries of communication during these troubled times of Covid-19. We have sent troops and personnel who have been vaccinated with both doses,” he told news agency ANI earlier in the day, adding that they were equipped with special suits and accompanied by paramedics, doctors and attendants while sharing his hope that the forces will come out unscathed by the pandemic.“Initially there were reports in the morning of hundreds of villages losing electricity but within an hour the electricty has been restored. These are good signs of the disaster response capabilities of India and the states. It will take some more time to complete the restoration,”he told news agency ANI.Meanwhile, Union home minister Amit Shah spoke to chief ministers of Maharashtra, Gujarat and Rajasthan and took stock of the situation on Tuesday after the landfall of Cyclone Tauktae, ministry officials said.They said the minister talked to the CMs over the telephone and extended support of the Centre in aiding and mitigating challenges that arose in the aftermath of the ‘extremely severe cyclonic storm’ battering the costal areas on the country’s western shore along the Arabian Sea. They said that while Rajasthan did not face the direct brunt of the cyclone, a number of districts were stated to have witnessed rains and strong wings as an after effect of the furious sea storm.(with agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-will-cause-rain-no-serious-damage-now-ndrf-101621363394059.html
19-05-2021||India||269 doctors died of Covid-19 in second wave: IMA||As many as 269 doctors have so far succumbed to Covid-19 in the second wave of the pandemic, the Indian Medical Association (IMA) announced on Tuesday.At least four states, Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi and Andhra Pradesh have reported more than 20 deaths. These states reported 78, 37, 28 and 22 deaths, respectively.According to the IMA Covid-19 registry on the official website, 748 doctors died of Covid-19 in the first wave of the pandemic.“The numbers could be actually more but we only put out numbers after thoroughly verifying the details. Health care workers are always at the forefront, hence, more prone to contracting the disease,” Dr Rajan Sharma, former IMA president, said.Deaths in other states include: Telangana (19), Maharashtra (13), Tamil Nadu (10), Karnataka and Odisha (8 each), Madhya Pradesh (5), Chhattisgarh and Jammu and Kashmir (3 each), Assam, Gujarat, Haryana and Kerala (2 each) and Goa (1).According to the association, only 66% of the doctors have been vaccinated so far. The IMA has been regularly conducting awareness generation drives among health care professionals to encourage them to get vaccinated.“Even though some doctors among the dead were vaccinated, that percentage (about 3%) is very small. It has been fairly well established that the vaccines lessen the severity of the disease, and stop the disease from progressing to serious illness. All should get vaccinated at the earliest,” Dr Sharma said..On the list of doctors who succumbed to the disease in the second wave was former IMA national president Dr K K Aggarwal.The 62-year-old, who was awarded Padma Shri in 2010, died of Covid-19-related complications at 11.30 pm on Monday at New Delhi’s All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS).A statement uploaded on his Twitter profile confirmed the news: “It causes us immense pain to inform you that our dear Dr KK Aggarwal passed away at 11.30pm on May 17, 2021, in New Delhi, after a lengthy battle with covid-19...”“Even during the pandemic, he made constant efforts to educate the masses and was able to reach out to 100 million people through numerous videos and videos and educational programmes and saved countless lives. He wanted his life to be celebrated and not mourned,” the statement read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/269-doctors-died-of-covid-19-in-second-wave-ima-101621362193975.html
19-05-2021||India||Row as BJP says Congress ‘toolkits’ defame India||Pandemic politics intensified on Tuesday with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) alleging that the Congress prepared elaborate “toolkits” to defame Prime Minister Narendra Modi, build a biased narrative over India’s Covid-19 management, politicise religious events, and link the medical crisis to the Central Vista project.The Congress responded by dismissing the charges as fake, and lodging a complaint of forgery and cyber crime with the Delhi Police.A document circulating on the social media -- with Congress party symbols and markings on it -- was shared and cited by BJP leaders as an alleged call to arms by the Congress to its supporters. The document asked its readers to tarnish Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s image and “erode his popularity”; suggested using phrases such as “Indian strain” and “Modi strain” for the variants of the Sars-CoV-2 virusthat were first detected in the country; and cited briefing foreign journalists over India’s mismanagement of the second wave of the coronavirus disease.The Congress, however, maintained that the documents on Covid wereconcocted, and its leaders slammed the BJP, calling it “Bikul Jhooth Party”.The BJP attack on Tuesday was led by party president JP Nadda, who accused the Congress of “dividing society” and “spewing venom”. “Congress is a master at this. India is seeing Congress’s antics, while the nation is fighting Covid-19, I would urge Congress to go beyond ‘toolkit models’ and do something constructive,” he tweeted, citing the documents.Hours earlier, the ruling party’s Rajya Sabha member Sambit Patra first posted the documents on Twitter, and said: “Disgusting to say the least ... Rahul Gandhi wanting to use this opportunity of pandemic to destroy the image of PM Modi. No stone left unturned to scar the name of India with the help of foreign journalists.”Patra added the documents referred to liaising with journalists who write in foreign publications and briefing them on talking points. He said that the documents showed the Congress also wanted to promote dramatic photographs of funerals and dead bodies in order to malign India.Patra also said that the alleged toolkit spoke of giving a religious tone to the Covid spread by asking that the Kumbh mela in Haridwar -- which was visited by 9.1 million pilgrims before it was effectively curtailed -- be always described as a a “superspreader”.Rajeev Gowda, chairman of the Congress party’s research department, responded by saying that the BJP was propagating a “fake toolkit on Covid-19 mismanagement” and attributing it to the Congress. “When our country is devastated by Covid, instead of providing relief, the BJP shamelessly concocts forgeries,” he said, adding that the party was filing charges against Nadda and PatraOther Congress leaders said that the document prepared on the Central Vista project was genuine, and that it simply highlighted problems associated with the revamp of the central avenue in Delhi, and the expenses involved in it. They alleged that this document was used as a template to create the fake documents and alleged action plants on Covid-19.“The toolkit is a fabricated document. It is a forged document on Congress letterhead. It is another façade created by the Modi government to distract people’s attention from the real issues. How much time and efforts would you spend in covering the truth and spreading lies. If you had invested half that time and energy, India would not be struggling this much,” Congress leader Pavan Khera said.The purported Congress document also mentioned mobilising “former civil servants to raise questions about PM CARES Fund” and to “aggressively question or embarrass” celebrities wanting to donate to it. The purported document also suggested the use of phrases such as “missing [Union home minister] Amit Shah”, “quarantined [external affairs minister S] Jaishankar”, “sidelined [defence minister] Rajnath Singh”, and “insensitive [finance minister] Nirmala Sitharaman”.Toolkits first hit the news in February this year after Delhi Police linked a social media toolkit on farm protests to clashes that rocked the Capital on Republic Day, saying the document aimed to spread misinformation and incite unrest. Police also arrested climate activist Disha Ravi from Bengaluru and charged her with sedition, intending to riot and criminal conspiracy for allegedly editing the online document that Swedish Nobel laureate Greta Thunberg first publicised in support of farmers agitating against three central laws.Toolkits are essentially documents detailing social media strategy and digital campaign plans for a particular body. Ravi was granted bail on February 23.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/row-as-bjp-says-congress-toolkits-defame-india-101621361235601.html
19-05-2021||India||Former IMA chief Dr KK Aggarwal dies of Covid||New Delhi: Former national president of the Indian Medical Association (IMA) and Padma Shree awardee Dr KK Aggarwal died of Covid-19 late on Monday night.Aggarwal, 62, died of Covid-19 related complications at 11.30pm on Monday at All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS). Dr Aggarwal’s condition was critical and he was on ventilator support for the past few days, hospital authorities said.Shortly afterwards, a statement was posted on Aggarwal’s profile. “It causes us immense pain to inform you that our dear Dr KK Aggarwal passed away at 11.30pm on May 17, 2021, in New Delhi, after a lengthy battle with covid-19...”“Even during the pandemic, he made constant efforts to educate the masses and was able to reach out to 100 million people through numerous videos and videos and educational programmes and saved countless lives. He wanted his life to be celebrated And not mourned,” the statement on Twitter read.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said it was a “setback for the whole nation”.“He acted all his life for the health rights of common people especially poor, deprived n marginalized. A great human being. RIP! (sic),” the chief minister tweeted.Also Read| 269 doctors died of Covid-19 in second wave: IMARajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot also offered his condolences. “My heartfelt condolences at the passing away of former Indian Medical Association president, Padma Shri Dr KK Aggarwal. His services as a doctor shall always be remembered. May God give strength to his family members to bear this loss. May his soul rest in peace,” he tweeted.Dr Aggarwal was awarded Padma Shree in 2010. He was also awarded Dr BC Roy award. He was currently president of the Heart Care Foundation of India.“The show must go on,” Aggarwal said in one of his last videos posted on Twitter, as he sat with a nasal cannula for oxygen support. “We have to get people out of this crisis,” he said in the video, urging doctors to see more and more patients with similar symptoms at one go during teleconsultations.He was born in Delhi on September 5, 1958. He completed his MBBS from MGIMS, Sevagram under the Nagpur University in 1979.Members of the medical fraternity remembered Aggarwal as “very hard working, innovative and pragmatic” and hailed him as an “iconic figure in mass education and awareness”.“He was a medical activist who worked for 18 hours every day and in the last 16 months, the kind of work he did for creating awareness on the virus was phenomenal,” said Dr Vinay Aggarwal, former national president of IMA who had an association of nearly 35 years with the late doctor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/former-ima-chief-dr-kk-aggarwal-dies-of-covid-101621357573828.html
19-05-2021||India||Tamil Nadu invites bids for production of oxygen, concentrators and vaccines||Tamil Nadu government on Tuesday invited expressions of interest (EOI) from companies to produce oxygen, vaccines and drugs to make the state self-sufficient in the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic.In a statement, the government said that the state would take efforts to develop infrastructure to manufacture oxygen, vaccines and Covid-19-related drugs. The MK Stalin-led government called for joint ventures to manufacture oxygen, oxygen concentrators, vaccines and high-tech medical equipment.“To reduce the oxygen shortage in the state and to bring a permanent solution, Tamil Nadu chief minister has ordered starting oxygen production units,” the statement said. “Orders have been issued to produce high-end medical equipment, oxygen, vaccines and medicines for Covid-19 within the state.”Tamil Nadu Industrial Development Corporation (TIDCO), a state government agency, would extend support for the joint venture to private Indian and foreign companies who invest a minimum of 50-crore. Interested firms can respond to the expression of interest before May 31.“This announcement is more significant in the present situation because the state government’s action plan here is to also encourage start-ups, though the EOI is open to everyone willing,” said Thangam Thennarasu, minister for industries, Tamil Nadu. “We want to be self-reliant, self-sufficient and self-contained so we will be in a position to rise to the occasion if the need arises in the future. The main incentive is the capital expenditure subsidy of 30%,” he added.The government offered the incentive package a week ago, as per which investors who can establish manufacturing facility and commence commercial production of oxygen concentrators, oxygen cylinders and medical oxygen can avail capital subsidy of 30% provided they start production by August 15, 2021. Investors who can establish a large liquid oxygen plant with a minimum capacity of 10 MT daily can avail the same over five years if they can commence before November 30. A nodal agency of the state’s industries department would give single-window clearance free of cost.The announcements come in the backdrop of a new government that was formed on May 2. As the government is trying to tackle the state’s rising Covid-19 cases, the demand for liquid medical oxygen has also shot up. The state is also facing a shortage of vaccines and has called for a global tender to procure 3.5 crore doses of vaccines. The integrated vaccine facility at Chengalpet district is also awaiting interested players after issuing a tender.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-invites-bids-for-production-of-oxygen-concentrators-and-vaccines-101621357154207.html
19-05-2021||NA||Cyclone Tauktae Highlights: PM Modi to visit Gujarat, Diu today||Tauktae made landfall over the Gujarat coast on Monday night and weakened into a severe cyclonic storm from a very severe cyclonic storm on Tuesday morning. After the landfall which was completed on Tuesday morning, the system is very likely to re-curve north-northeastwards, across Gujarat and weaken gradually. It is expected to weaken gradually and transform into a depression over Rajasthan.Click here for full coverage of Cyclone TauktaeThe landfall process of the eye of the extremely severe cyclonic storm Tauktae, which hit the Gujarat coast in Saurashtra region between Diu and Una, ended around midnight, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said.It crossed the Gujarat coast as an "extremely severe cyclonic storm" and gradually weakened.On Tuesday morning, it lay over the Saurashtra region near Amreli as a "severe severe cyclonic storm," and was likely to weaken gradually into a cyclonic storm by the afternoon, the IMD said in its latest bulletin.Maximum city Mumbai witnessed heavy rains, strong winds, and water logging as Tauktae skirted the city's coast on Monday, going from a Category 1 storm to a Category 4 storm. Covid-19 patients were shifted from Jumbo Covid centres and vaccination was halted in many parts as the city dealt with the first severe cyclone of 2021.Follow all the updates here:Cyclone Tauktae weakens into Deep depression over Saurashtra, says IMDThe IMD said on Tuesday night that the cyclonic storm Tauktae has weakened into a deep depression over Saurashtra and will further weaken into a depression in the next 12 hours.29 persons aboard three vessels rescued in MumbaiAt least 29 persons aboard three vessels which went adrift due to cyclone Tauktae in the Arabian sea were rescued jointly by the Mumbai Police, CISF and Mazagaon Dock Shipbuilders near Angre jetty here on Tuesday, officials said.All the three vessels- two of them fishing boats- went adrift in the sea after their anchors broke in the cyclone they said.MV Saraswati and MV Kajal with 22 people on board went adrift near Mazagaon Dock Limited (MDL), an official said.PM Modi to visit Gujarat and Diu tomorrow to assess post-cyclone situationPrime Minister Narendra Modi will visit Gujarat and Diu on Wednesday to personally review the situation there and the damage wrought by cyclone Tauktae, government sources said.He will leave Delhi at around 9:30 AM and land at Bhavnagar from where he will proceed for an aerial survey of Una, Diu, Jafarabad and Mahuva, they said.Modi will also hold a review meeting at Ahmedabad.Cyclone Tauktae: 18 dead, farms, crops damaged in Maharashtra and Gujarat’s SaurashtraThe cyclone Tauktae battered the Saurashtra region of Gujarat on Monday night leaving three persons dead and damaging property in around 2,500 villages across the southern Gujarat, leading to disruption in power and internet connectivity, officials said.In Maharashtra, 15 people were reported dead in the four coastal districts of the state with mango crops damaged in 9,000 hectares of farm land. Close to 100 roads were blocked with thousands of tree feeling due to gusty winds of up to 180 km per hour hitting the coastal areas. Maharashtra had relocated close to one lakh persons, officials said.ONGC says efforts on to rescue crew of P-305, other vessels in controlAll drifted vessels, except 'P-305', are taken in control, and their crew is safe. Indian Navy and ONGC are actively engaged in rescuing the crew of vessel 'P-305': Oil and Natural Gas Corporation Limited (ONGC)#CycloneTauktae pic.twitter.com/wwVJLZ8WMpThe Oil and Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC) said that all drifted vessels except the P-305 are in control. It also said that efforts are on to rescue the crew of P-305, reports ANI.Gujarat Covid-19 vaccinations suspended due to cyclone Tauktae, to resume on May 20, says CMOIn view of current situation of #CycloneTauktae in Gujarat, Covid-19 vaccination drive has been suspended in the state and will resume on May 20: Chief Minister's Office (CMO)Gujarat chief minister's office has said that the Covid-19 vaccination drive in the state has been suspended due to the Cyclone Taukte situation and would resume on May 20, reports ANI.Tauktae cyclone enters Rajasthan late night, 7 districts to receive heavy rainfallThe Taukatae cyclone will be entering Rajasthan as depression by late Tuesday night, as result of which at least seven districts of the state will be witnessing heavy to very heavy rainfall.The Met department has announced red alert in over half a dozen districts – Jalore, Sirohi, Udaipur, Pali, Dungarpur, Chittorgarh and Rajsamand, where heavy to very heavy rainfall is expected on Wednesday.Cyclone Tauktae to weaken gradually into deep depression during next 6 hours: IMDCYCLONIC STORM ‘TAUKTAE’ IS ABOUT 50 KM WEST-SOUTHWEST OF AHMEDABAD AND 60 KM EAST-NORTHEAST OF https://t.co/MK6R6Qdgsf WEAKEN GRADUALLY INTO A DEEP DEPRESSION DURING NEXT 06 HOURS. pic.twitter.com/Uc7KJAVxJBThe IMD has said that the cyclone Tauktae currently at 50kms to the west-southwest of Ahmedabad would gradually weaken into a deep depression during the next six hours.3 people dead, 10 injured in Mumbai due to cyclone TauktaeThree people have died and 10 injured in Mumbai in the last 24 hours due to cyclone Tauktae, according to officials from the BMC, reports PTI.Indian Navy, Coast Guard rescue 314 people from 2 barges near MumbaiThe Indian Navy and the Coast Guard have rescued 314 people from two barges that went adrift near Mumbai due to Cyclone Tauktae."Two Coast Guard Chetak helicopters operating from the Coast Guard Air station in Daman rescued personnel on board the GAL Constructor. One more Chetak helicopter was also pressed into service for the SAR operations," a Navy official said, reports PTI.Indian Coast Guard moors 2 ships near Mumbai coastIndian Coast Guard helps mooring 2 oil tanker shops that went adrift near Mumbai coast amid bad weather due to cyclone Tauktae: Official statementIndian Coast Guard has moored two oil tanker ships that went adrift near the Mumbai coast due to cyclone Tauktae, reports PTI.Watch | Worst of Cyclone Tauktae over; no deaths in Gujarat’: NDRF ChiefNDRF chief SN Pradhan said that the worst of cyclone Tauktae is over.Cyclonic storm Tauktae lay centred over Saurashtra, 140 kms southwest of AhmedabadTHE CYCLONIC STORM ‘TAUKTAE’ LAY CENTRED AT 1330 HRS IST OF 18TH MAY 2021 OVER SAURASHTRA, NEAR LAT. 22.2°N AND LONG. 71.6°E, ABOUT 140 KM SOUTHWEST OF AHMEDABAD, 60 KM SOUTH OF SURENDRANAGAR AND 75 KM NORTHEAST OF AMRELI. pic.twitter.com/JTeC4SkfejThe IMD said that the cyclonic storm Tauktae currently lays centred over Saurashtra, at 140kms southwest of Ahmedabad, 60kms south of Surendranagar and 75kms northeast of Amreli.Top Naval officer says 'one of the most challenging search and rescue operations' in 4 decadesThis is one of the most challenging search & rescue ops I’ve seen in the last 4 decades. 4 INS are on site. Main ops pertains to searching & rescuing 261 people from Afcons Barge P305 which sank about 60km away from Mumbai yesterday: Deputy Chief of Naval Staff #CycloneTauktae pic.twitter.com/59eADLoKosThe Deputy Chief of Naval Staff said: "This is one of the most challenging search & rescue ops I’ve seen in the last 4 decades. 4 INS are on site. Main ops pertains to searching & rescuing 261 people from Afcons Barge P305 which sank about 60km away from Mumbai yesterday."Power supply in entire Goa to be restored by May 19Goa state electricity department said that the power supply disrupted by the cyclone Tauktae would be restored completely by May 19."We have managed to restore 80 per cent of the snapped electricity supply in Goa. Rest 20 per cent supply would be restored by tomorrow (Wednesday) morning," reports PTI, citing a senior official.Worst is over in cyclone Tauktae, says NDRF chiefThe National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) Director General SN Pradhan on Tuesday said that the 'worst is over' and Cyclone Tauktae will "become a depression" by today evening.Pradhan said, "The cyclone has weakened into a cyclonic storm level and probably in another couple of hours it will become a cyclonic system which is a much lower category. By the time it reaches Gujarat coast in the late evening, it would have become a depression...The worst is over""Another good news is that the state emergency operation centre (SEOC) of Gujarat has informed us and confirmed that there have been no deaths at all," he further said adding that there is considerable damage to property and infrastructure.Cyclone fury leaves trail of destruction in Gujarat; 7 deadAt least seven people were killed in Gujarat as cyclone Tauktae battered parts of the state and left behind a trail of destruction along the coast, uprooting electric poles and trees, and damaging several houses and roads, officials said on Tuesday.Over 16,000 houses were damaged, and more than 40,000 trees and over 1,000 poles uprooted due to the cyclonic storm, Chief Minister Vijay Rupani said.The landfall process of the eye of the extremely severe cyclonic storm Tauktae, which hit the Gujarat coast in Saurashtra region between Diu and Una, ended around midnight, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said.Coast Guard rescues 55 crew members onboard ONGC bargeThe Coast Guard rescued 55 crew onboard an ONGC barge near Vadrai in Satpati, Palghar. 137 crew members were onboard when the barge, located 48 nautical miles off Colaba, lost power and started to drift on Monday night. Navy chopper and other Coast Guard ships have been deployed to rescue the remaining crew.Indian Coast Guard airlifted 10 stranded crew members from Barge Gal constructorTwo Indian Coast Guard Chetaks launched from Daman have successfully airlifted 10 crew from grounded Barge Gal Constructor. Rescue operation underway: Indian Coast Guard pic.twitter.com/mNT5FxCMimVijay Rupani says Cyclone Tauktae claimed 3 lives in GujaratGujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani told news agency ANI that Cyclone Tauktae has claimed 3 lives in the state. In addition to this 40,000 trees have fallen and 16,500 huts have been affected due to Tauktae.Indian Navy continues search and rescue operations throughout the night, rescue 177 personnelIndian Navy's search and rescue operations abroad Barge P305 continued throughout the night on Tuesday, in the wake of cyclone Tauktae. The navy had deployed INS Kochi and INS Kolkata, who were later joined by Offshore Support Vessel Energy Star and Great Ship Ahalya have .177 personnel have been rescued so far in extremely challenging circumstances.INS Kolkata rescued 2 survivors from adrift vesselINS Kolkata rescued two survivors from the life raft of vessel Vara Prabha yesterday pic.twitter.com/R1cS5Z9040INS Kolkata rescued two survivors from the life raft of vessel Vara Prabha on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-tauktae-updates-ins-kolkata-rescues-2-survivors-101621314710101.html
19-05-2021||India||Cyclone Tauktae: Rapid intensity takes experts by surprise||Tauktae wasn’t supposed to become an extremely severe cyclonic storm, but favourable conditions reigning in the Arabian Sea helped it become that -- once again highlighting the potential impact of the climate crisis on India.Tauktae intensified from a very severe to an extremely severe cyclonic storm rapidly on Monday, taking weather experts and scientists by surprise. “Tauktae intensified very rapidly this morning. We did not state that it would intensify to an extremely severe cyclone in our forecast. But it did because of extremely favourable oceanic and atmospheric conditions,” said M Mohapatra, director general, India Meteorological Department (IMD).While forecasting the trajectory of Tauktae at 2.20am on Monday, IMD said it would intensify into a very severe cyclonic storm and cross the Gujarat coast on May 18 (Tuesday). But, by 8.15 am, another IMD bulletin said Tauktae already intensified to an extremely severe cyclonic storm with a maximum wind speed of 180-190 kmph gusting to 210 kmph and that it would cross the Gujarat coast on Monday night.Tauktae is in keeping with the trend of an increasing number of cyclones in the Arabian Sea. Time was when most of those affecting India were on the other side, in the Bay of Bengal. Scientists have no doubts as to why this is happening -- warmer seas on account of the climate crisis. “Rapid intensification of cyclones is a response to climate change and ocean warming, and cyclone forecast models have a hard time in picking them up. We need to incorporate this in forecast models and be prepared on the ground for future...,” said Roxy Mathew Koll, a climate scientist at the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology.Tauktae also intensified very rapidly from a depression to a cyclone on Friday. “With Cyclone Tauktae, this will be the fourth consecutive year of a pre-monsoon cyclone over the Arabian Sea. This is also the third consecutive year when a cyclone has come very close to the west coast of India. Sea surface temperatures in Arabian Sea have increased rapidly during the past century and this has led to an increase in the frequency and intensity of cyclones in the Arabian Sea… global warming has presented us with new challenges... Improving the Indian Ocean Observing System and incorporating global warming signals in the weather models can help us tackle the challenges,” Koll added.Still, some experts warned of this. “Conditions are extremely favourable for its (Tauktae’s) rapid intensification. Ocean heat potential is above normal; sea surface temperatures are 1-2°C above normal… We should be prepared,” Sunitha Devi, who studies cyclones at IMD, said on Thursday when a low pressure area formed over Arabian Sea.“We are seeing very intense cyclones form over Arabian Sea, they also intensify rapidly... It happens because ocean heat content is higher and sea surface temperatures are also higher... Sometimes our models are able capture this but not always,” said M Rajeevan, secretary, ministry of earth sciences.According to “Assessment of Climate Change over the Indian Region,” a report released by Union ministry of earth sciences last year, observations indicate that frequency of extremely severe cyclonic storms over the Arabian Sea has increased during the post-monsoon seasons of 1998–2018. Most models are projecting a higher sea surface warming in the Arabian Sea than the Bay of Bengal.Koll said ocean warming has made some new challenges for weather agencies. “Cyclones are now intensifying rapidly since warm ocean waters act as fuel for them. Extremely severe cyclones like Fani and Amphan intensified from a weak to severe status in less than 24 hours due to warm ocean conditions. That gives us less time to be prepared...”“Compared to the Bay of Bengal, there has always been a greater probability for a depression (a low-pressure system) forming over the Arabian Sea to intensify into a severe cyclonic storm or a stronger tropical cyclone. This climatological trend seems to be fuelled by the warming of the Arabian Sea and atmospheric support, which have triggered some powerful tropical cyclones such as Tauktae and Kyarr (2019),” said Akshay Deoras, Independent meteorologist and PhD researcher at the University of Reading, United Kingdom.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-tauktae-rapid-intensity-takes-experts-by-surprise-101621301368272.html
19-05-2021||NA||Highlights: Chhattisgarh records 6,477 new Covid-19 cases, 153 more deaths||India on Tuesday recorded 263,533 fresh Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours, according to Union health ministry dashboard. As many as 4,329 new deaths were also registered. The country has so far reported a total of 25.22 million cases and 278,719 deaths. India is currently reeling under a second Covid-19 wave.The global Covid-19 disease caseload has climbed to 164,254,146 of which 3,403,704 people have died and 142,972,425 have recovered, according to worldometers.info. The United States continues to remain the worst-hit country from the pandemic with 33,744,577 cases and 600,504 deaths respectively.California won’t lift its mask requirement until June 15 to give the public and businesses time to prepare and ensure cases stay low, the state health director said Monday, a decision that runs counter to many other states including Oregon and Washington that quickly aligned with last week's new federal guidelines.Meanwhile, British officials are considering contingency plans for local lockdowns or a delay to reopening after June 21 in response to concern about the spread of the coronavirus variant first detected in India, the Times newspaper reported on Monday.Follow all the updates here:Chhattisgarh records 6,477 new Covid-19 cases, 153 more deathsChhattisgarh on Tuesday recorded 6,477 new Covid-19 cases, 153 more deaths and 11,250 recoveries in the last 24 hours, according to the state health department's bulletin. No new Covid strain detected here, Singapore health ministry counters KejriwalSingapore on Tuesday dismissed Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s assertion about a new Coronavirus strain being detected in that country, and said the variant prevalent in many Covid-19 cases in recent weeks was the “B.1.617.2 variant, which originated in India”. Read moreOver 6,200 people found infected with Covid-19 in last 24 hours in BiharBihar reports 6,286 fresh #COVID19 cases and 11,174 recoveries todayTotal cases 6,64,115Active cases 64,698 pic.twitter.com/6T8or9C554Telangana extends Covid-19 curbs till May 30Telangana government on Tuesday extended Covid-19 restrictions till May 30. All activities will be allowed from 6am to 10am everyday as per the order, reported ANI.Mumbai clocks below 1,000 new Covid-19 casesMumbai records 953 new #COVID19 cases, 2,258 recoveries and 44 deaths in the last 24 hoursTotal cases 6,90,889Death toll 14,352Total recovered cases 6,41,598Active cases 32,925 pic.twitter.com/PQkSOnoJziWest Bengal logs nearly 20,000 new Covid-19 cases, takes tally to over 1.17 millionWest Bengal reports 19,428 new #COVID19 cases, 19,050 recoveries and 145 deaths in the last 24 hours.Total cases 11,71,861Total recoveries 10,26,492Death toll 13,576 Active cases 1,31,793 pic.twitter.com/kkmgWVX4YjTamil Nadu reports over 33,000 new Covid-19 casesTamil Nadu registers 33,059 new #COVID19 cases, 21,362 discharges and 364 deaths in the last 24 hoursActive cases 2,31,596Total discharges 14,03,052Death toll 18,369Total cases 16,64,350 pic.twitter.com/xRj6Gqnc1TGujarat logs 6,447 new Covid-19 infections in last 24 hours Gujarat reported 6,447 new Covid-19 infections, 9,557 recoveries and 67 deaths in the last 24 hours, reported ANI.Madhya Pradesh reports 5,412 new Covid-19 cases, active caseload at nearly 83,000Madhya Pradesh records 5,412 new #COVID19 cases, 70 deaths and 11,358 recoveries todayActive cases 82,967Total cases 7,42,718Death toll 7,139Total recovered cases 6,52,612 pic.twitter.com/Wy7RFDEgIZUttar Pradesh logs 8,737 new Covid-19 cases, 255 deathsUttar Pradesh reports 8,737 new #COVID19 cases, 21,108 recoveries and 255 deaths in the last 24 hoursCase tally 16,37,663Active cases 1,36,342 pic.twitter.com/ssSCmjedV7Tamil Nadu, Assam, Punjab may see Covid-19 peak in 2 weeks: SUTRA modelStates like Tamil Nadu, Assam and Punjab may see peak of second wave of coronavirus cases in next two weeks, according to the SUTRA model, reported PTI. Read moreJharkhand reports 60 new deaths from coronavirusJharkhand on Tuesday logged 60 new Covid-19 deaths taking the toll to 4,539, while 2,507 people were found to be infected with the virus in the last 24 hours, reported PTI.Kerala logs 31,337 new Covid-19 casesKerala reported 31,337 fresh infections of coronavirus disease and 97 more deaths, the state government said, reported PTI.Goa reports 1,358 new Covid-19 cases, 45 deathsGoa reports 1358 new #COVID19 cases, 45 deaths and 3120 recoveries in the last 24 hoursActive cases 23,946Total cases 1,38,776 pic.twitter.com/953XLa8XnNSikkim reports 209 new Covid-19 cases, takes tally to over 11,600Sikkim registered 209 new cases of Covid-19 in the last 24 hours that took the tally to 11,689. The state reported two fresh fatalities on Tuesday pushing to toll to 212, reported PTI.Maharashtra's Covid-19 positivity rate continues to fall: Health ministry#Unite2FightCorona #Maharashtra continues to see decline in #COVID19 cases as well as Positivity Rate; CPR has come down from 25.5% to 15.9%24 out of 36 districts of Maharashtra are showing reduction in cases since last 2 weeks- @MoHFW_INDIA pic.twitter.com/t50TlR8vDrWeekly Covid-19 case positivity rate rising in north east: GovtNorth Eastern states witness an increase in weekly #COVID19 case positivity rate; increasing trend seen in Meghalaya, Mizoram, Tripura, Sikkim, Arunachal Pradesh and Manipur- @MoHFW_INDIACovid-19 spread contained to under 2% of population: Health ministryDespite the high number of cases reported so far, we have been able to contain the spread to under 2% of the population. We can not let our guards down, hence continued focus on containment is critical: Joint Secretary, @MoHFW_INDIA #IndiaFightsCorona #Unite2FightCorona pic.twitter.com/cDDazlPjnzIndia witnessing consistent increase in testing: GovtIndia has witnessed consistent increase in #COVID19 testing across the country; average daily test more than 2.5 times in last 14 weeks - @MoHFW_INDIA Watch live : https://t.co/0rJcFDkZ0GDelhi logs 4,482 fresh Covid-19 cases, 265 deathsDelhi reports 4482 new #COVID19 cases, 9403 recoveries and 265 deaths in the last 24 hours.Total cases 14,02,873Total recoveries 13,29,899Death toll 22,111Active cases 50,863 pic.twitter.com/nIYzNII6QdTaiwan reports 240 new Covid-19 casesTaiwan reported 240 new Covid-19 cases and two fresh fatalities on Tuesday, reported AP.Covid-19 curfew imposed in Ahmedabad extended till 6am on May 21Curfew imposed in Ahmedabad extended till May 21, 6 am: Ahmedabad Police pic.twitter.com/wUkzfmObVBAhmedabad police said that the Covid-19 curfew imposed in the city has been extended till May 21, 6am, reports ANI.Statewise distribution of total confirmed Covid-19 cases#CoronaVirusUpdates: State-wise details of Total Confirmed #COVID19 cases (till 18 May, 2021, 8 AM) ➡️States with 1-80000 confirmed cases ➡️States with 80001-730000 confirmed cases ➡️States with 730000+ confirmed cases ➡️Total no. of confirmed cases so far #StaySafe pic.twitter.com/USum0c15nIEight states have reported over a million total confirmed Covid-19 cases, data from the Union health ministry showed.PM Modi interacts with officials from states, districts over Covid-19 situationDuring his interaction, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said, "Keep in mind the ease of living of every person while imposing Covid-19 curbs. Ensure that locals do not face difficulties due to Covid-19 restrictions. We are in the process of increasing the vaccination capacity."Taiwan to close schools amid rise in Covid-19 casesTaiwan's government said on Tuesday that all schools would close until May 28 amid a rise in domestic Covid-19 cases.Arunachal Pradesh logs highest one-day spike of 304 newArunachal Pradesh recorded its highest single-day spike of 304 new Covid-19 cases, which pushed the tally to 22,106, while four more fatalities raised the toll to 85, a senior official said here on Tuesday.Kangana Ranaut tests negative for Covid-19Actor Kangana Ranaut on Tuesday said she has tested negative for Covid-19, more than 10 days after contracting the virus.Maharashtra has controlled second Covid-19 wave, claims SenaThe ruling Shiv Sena in Maharashtra on Tuesday claimed that the state has controlled the second wave of Covid-19.Wriddhiman Saha recovers from Covid, to be available for tour of EnglandWicketkeeper-batsman Wriddhiman Saha has recovered from Covid-19 and will be available for India's tour of England next month.COVAX facility will deliver its 65 millionth dose in coming days: UNICEF directorCOVAX facility will deliver its 65 millionth dose in the coming days. It should've been at least its 170 millionth. The time to donate excess doses is now: UNICEF Executive Director Henrietta Fore.Ladakh reports 130 fresh Covid-19 cases; 134 patients curedWith a single-day rise of 130 cases, Ladakh's Covid-19 tally climbed to 16,582 on Tuesday, while 134 patients were discharged from hospitals after they recuperated, pushing the total number of recoveries to 14,875, officials said.China's Clover says its Covid-19 vaccine candidate shows immune response in miceChinese biotechnology company Clover Biopharmaceuticals said on Tuesday the modified version of its Covid-19 vaccine candidate showed a strong immune response against the original strain of the virus and some variants during animal testing.UK rushes to vaccinate as contagious Covid variant advancesThe UK is battling to contain a highly contagious Covid variant first discovered in India so it can follow through with plans to fully reopen on June 21.35 new cases take Covid-19 tally of Andamans to 6,638The Covid-19 caseload in Andaman and Nicobar Islands rose to 6,638 as 35 more people tested positive for the disease in the Union Territory, a health department official said on Tuesday.India's Covid-19 tally at 25.22 million with 263,533 new casesIndia on Tuesday recorded 263,533 fresh Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours, according to Union health ministry dashboard. As many as 4,329 new deaths were also registered. The country has so far reported a total of 25.22 million cases and 278,719 deaths.18,69,223 samples were tested yesterday: ICMR31,82,92,881 samples tested for Covid-19 up to 17th May 2021. Of these, 18,69,223 samples were tested yesterday: Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).Taiwan hopes to provide domestic Covid-19 shots by JulyTaiwan President Tsai Ing-wen said on Tuesday that the government hopes to begin providing domestically-made Covid-19 vaccines before the end of July, and that more imported vaccines are on the way.Mizoram reports 239 new Covid-19 casesMizoram reports 239 new Covid-19 cases and 2 deaths on Monday. Active cases at 2,108 and death toll at 28.After 3-day gap, BMC to resume vaccination from todayThe Covid-19 vaccination drive in Mumbai, that was suspended for three days due to the extremely severe cyclonic storm Tauktae, will resume from Tuesday at select centres, the city civic body said on Monday.Ladakh reported 130 new positive casesLadakh reported 130 new positive cases and 134 recoveries on Monday.Total positive cases: 16,582Active cases: 1,542Total deaths: 16520 footballers from River Plate test positive for Covid-19Five more footballers at River Plate have tested positive for Covid-19, lifting the powerful Argentine club’s total to 20 cases within the squad.US says it will keep providing assistance to India in fight against CovidThe United States will continue to provide a range of assistance to India, as its "important partner" continues to fight the Covid-19 pandemic, the White House said Monday.Uttarakhand extends Covid curfew till May 25The Uttarakhand government on Monday announced that it has extended Covid curfew till May 25 due to the prevailing Covid-19 situation in the state.More Covid-19 vaccines coming to Taiwan as cases spikeMuch-needed Covid-19 vaccines should be coming to Taiwan soon, the GAVI Vaccine Alliance said on Monday, as the chip-producing island's limited supplies run short during a spike in cases that has left the government scrambling for supplies.Italy shortens Covid curfew, eases other restrictionsItaly's government on Monday approved a decree pushing back with immediate effect a nightly coronavirus curfew to 11 p.m. from 10 p.m. and easing other curbs in the regions where infections are low.Brazil registers 29,916 new coronavirus cases, 786 new Covid-19 deathsBrazil recorded 29,916 additional confirmed cases of the coronavirus in the past 24 hours, along with 786 deaths from Covid-19, Health Ministry figures showed on Monday.UK ministers considering contingency plans for local lockdowns: ReportBritish ministers are considering contingency plans for local lockdowns or a delay to reopening after June 21 in response to concern about the spread of the coronavirus variant first detected in India, The Times newspaper reported on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-india-world-latest-news-covid-19-death-toll-may-18-2021-101621295764174.html
19-05-2021||Today's||The Taste with Vir Sanghvi: From zero to gau mutra||It is a quote that still has the power to anger every Indian nearly two centuries after the original work that it comes from was written. In 1835, Thomas Macaulay circulated his now infamous Minute on Education in which he wrote that “a single shelf of a good European Library is worth more than the whole native Literature of India and Arabia.”In terms of logic, the quote has no merit. The Arabs taught mathematics and astronomy to Europeans. India gave the world the zero, without which science or modern mathematics would not have been possible. So, the wholesale dismissal of traditions and knowledge that Macaulay himself did not understand was laughable.Unfortunately, Macaulay’s ignorance and snobbery marked the borders for a debate that rages to this day. At one end was the science and modernity of the West. At the other was the ‘spiritual mumbo jumbo’ (as European imperialists saw it) of the East.Both extremes are absurd. So the task before modern Indians has been to find a happy place on the continuum between the two extreme positions. Until recently, we seemed to have solved that dilemma and found our own place. We agreed that there was much to gain from adopting the methods of western scientific inquiry and of embracing the latest advances in physics, medicine and other sciences.At the same time, even though we could not always offer a scientific explanation, many (if not most) of us retained a (sometimes grudging) belief in astrology. Even if we didn’t want our horoscopes cast, we still planned our weddings and celebrated functions according to auspicious times revealed by the stars. We accepted (long before the West saw the point) that there was more to yoga than imperialists had considered. We relied on modern medicine but did not fully dismiss Ayurveda or ancient Indian medicinal traditions, arguing that western medicine did not have all the answers. Many of us also respected babas and godmen and godwomen even if some of us regarded them as charlatans.This was a characteristically Indian balancing act but somehow we made it work.It is now normal among semi-educated people to portray Jawaharlal Nehru as a man who rejected all things Indian and gleefully embraced the West. In fact, Nehru was a great advocate of yoga. He began practising it in 1931 and in 1952 he moved a resolution in Parliament stating that yoga would be a part of India’s health education.His daughter, Indira Gandhi, maintained her own kind of balance though she moved even closer to eastern beliefs. Not only did she believe in yoga, she included a (rather dodgy) yogi called Dhirendra Brahmachari in her entourage. She consulted astrologers and, it is rumoured, tantriks. And she visited godmen and godwomen.In a sense, this balancing act exemplified the ethos of modern India. There was much we could learn from the West. But it was not necessary to turn our backs on all our ancient beliefs, even if we could not fully reconcile them with a western approach.This balance began to slip when the BJP came to power in 1998 and Murli Manohar Joshi became HRD Minister. I said of Dr Joshi then (in his presence) that while most politicians wanted to make history, he was content to simply rewrite it.When he was not rewriting history, Dr Joshi chipped away at other parts of the curriculum, striving to roll back the frontiers of logic and rational thought. As Jaipal Reddy said memorably about him, Joshi confused “history with mythology, philosophy with theology and astronomy with astrology.”Dr Joshi was mostly re-asserting the sort of world view his party represented at its reactionary core. (Jaipal Reddy also complimented LK Advani for his skill at packaging ‘medieval ideology in a modern idiom’.) But there were enough sensible people in the government to ensure that he did not run riot.By the standards of today’s BJP, Dr Joshi comes across as a dangerous modernist. The party has travelled so far beyond the original Indian consensus that balanced modern science with our ancient traditions, that the lack of scientific thinking in the BJP and the government has hampered India’s ability to move forward in the modern world.At a time when India is being ravaged by the worst pandemic in a century, Pragya Thakur, the BJP MP from Madhya Pradesh declared, “I consume cow urine daily and it is a kind of acid which purifies my body. It also purifies the lungs and saves me from Covid infection. I don’t take any medicines against corona but I am safe.”When there was an uproar, she stuck to her view, “I have recommended these because they have scientific backing. Research has already established it”.You could argue that Thakur is a loose cannon, a wild card of limited intelligence. But the examples of this kind of thinking go far beyond her. The chief minister of Uttarakhand assured pilgrims who wanted to attend the Kumbh Mela that they would be safe because the Ganga would protect them. (It didn’t and the Mela became a super-spreader event.)Or consider Baba Ramdev, the regime’s favourite yogi. Baba Ramdev and his partner Balkrishna have a nice line in exaggerating their achievements. A few years ago, Balkrishna told a TV channel that Ramdev’s outfit had developed cures for AIDS and cancer.Last year, Ramdev’s drug Coronil was said to cure Covid in seven days. That claim had later to be withdrawn but Ramdev launched Coronil anyway, claiming that the drug now had certification from the WHO, though the WHO later clarified that it had not endorsed the drug.But there to launch Coronil was Dr Harsh Vardhan, the health minister and the man supposed to be leading India’s fight against the pandemic.Once this sort of thinking receives political backing, it spreads among the rank and file. Even when it is shown to be wrong, the faithful still find reasons to justify it. For instance, Ramdev’s defenders on social media will now mercilessly troll anyone who attacks Coronil and say that it was only meant to be an immunity-booster (which it wasn’t) and will offer personal endorsements. (“I have taken Coronil. And I am safe”.)Even absurd remarks are justified to the bitter end. Last year, the junior health minister said that all you had to do to avoid Covid was to spend some time in the sun. This was a palpably absurd prescription from a man in a position of responsibility for the country’s health. But it is still aggressively defended by the faithful on social media. The current argument used to justify this nonsense is that sunlight helps in the production of Vitamin D and Vitamin D protects against Covid. If only this were the case, then India’s rural poor who spend hours in the sun, would be entirely safe. But they are dying in the thousands.The danger with this kind of fanatical devotion to the absurd is that it provides an environment where, in the middle of a crisis, people with influence can get away with saying whatever they like about Covid, no matter how irresponsible their statements are.The actress Kangana Ranaut, heroine to the BJP faithful, told her followers that they should hold their breaths to fight Covid’s effect on their lungs. The actor Akshay Kumar endorsed an Ayurvedic product (chyawanprash) that he claimed would advance immunity against Covid. (The ad had to be withdrawn.)But why only blame the stars? Dr VK Paul, the government’s Covid czar (and a doctor himself) also recommended chyawanprash and a herbal brew called kadha for those who have Covid.I could go on. The science ministry has funded a trial to determine whether the chanting of the Gayatri Mantra can either protect against Covid or cure it. Various other ministers have made many more unscientific pronouncements.But here’s my point: We have lost the balance we had reached between traditional Indian beliefs and modern scientific thought. Too many of the BJP faithful believe it is patriotic or atmanirbhar to reject modern science and to return to what they see as glorious Indian cures. To accept modern medicine would - in their eyes- amount to embracing Nehru and the habits of an English-speaking elite. Better to trust a yogi than a doctor.The notion of rational thinking and of proving the efficacy of any cure by rigorous testing has been abandoned. We embrace quacks instead and pass superstition off as wisdom.For a while this was alarming, but not necessarily dangerous.But now, it has gone beyond that. As thousands of Indians die, the government’s health ministers and health officials (the chyawanprash mafia, for want of a better term) make mistake after mistake, the most serious of which was the failure to understand India’s vaccine needs and to order enough doses.All of us respect ancient Indian wisdom. But we balance that respect with logic and rationality. Independent India was founded on a belief in science and modern thinking. Abandon that approach, fall back entirely on the outdated ways of an earlier era and, in the long-run, you risk the progress of this country and the future of our children.And in the short-run, people continue to die entirely avoidable deaths, victims of politicians and officials who, when they should have chosen science, fell back on superstition.For more stories by Vir Sanghvi read here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-taste-with-vir-sanghvi-from-zero-to-gau-mutra-101621426648690.html
19-05-2021||Today's||Scientifically Speaking | Welcoming a golden era of RNA vaccines||If someone had told me, when I was working in a lab, that I would one day be injecting RNA into my body in the middle of a raging pandemic, I would certainly have been surprised. But as I received a dose of an RNA vaccine, I thought of the advances prior to the pandemic that made these vaccines possible.RNA is not an alien macromolecule. Our bodies naturally contain RNA. Inside our body, RNA performs various functions. Messenger RNA (mRNA) is made corresponding to segments of DNA in the genome. It carries instructions to make proteins, which do the bulk of jobs in the body.Viruses such as SARS-CoV-2 bring their own RNA and use it to make copies of their genomes, but they hijack our cellular machinery to make their own proteins.An mRNA vaccine works by providing instructions for human cells to make a viral protein like the coronavirus spike. Then the body raises an immune response against the virus prior to encountering it.RNA vaccines fuel the need for speed. Once you have a target genetic sequence, you can put together a vaccine candidate in a matter of days. Conventional vaccines typically take more time and are harder to make.Also Read | When to take Covid vaccine after recovery? After 3 months, says CentreBut while mRNA vaccines for Covid-19 were created and received emergency approval in under a year, the enabling technology took decades. The pandemic provided the impetus to accelerate the process of developing and rolling them out on a large scale.Every single discovery in science has a through-line to earlier discoveries. Major advances in the past three decades led to the mRNA vaccines in use today. In turn, these vaccines will lead to next-generation vaccines for other diseases. In my opinion, there are four turning points that made these vaccines possible.For mRNA vaccines, we can thank a landmark paper published in Science in 1990 which showed that RNA injected into the muscle tissue of mice resulted in corresponding protein being made. This discovery converted cells into factories for making protein targets, paving the way for the RNA vaccines that we have today. However, the amount of protein made was initially low and the RNA used was unstable. RNA vaccines would have to wait a few more years for their moment.A second milestone was the rapid and cheap sequencing of genomes. The first bacterial genomes were sequenced in the 1990s. The draft sequence of the human genome came a few years later. The genome of SARS-CoV-2 was available in early January 2020, a few days after the causative virus had been identified. We now have millions of SARS-CoV-2 sequences that we can use to track the emergence of variants. Next generation sequencing has sped up the time it takes to get genome-sequenced. This is important because once you have a target sequence, you can rationally design an mRNA vaccine candidate very quickly to a virus or its variants.The third milestone was the ability to get RNA inside cells and keep it from degrading. RNA is inherently fragile, but scientists were able to change some of the chemicals it is made of so it is less unstable. Encasing RNA in a kind of fat molecule known as a lipid nanoparticle helped to improve stability and increased access to the inside of cells. Additional chemical tweaks made artificial RNA more effective for the human protein-making machinery.Also Watch | ‘Expedite Covid vaccination drive’: IMA president Dr Jayalal’s advice to CentreThe fourth milestone was the ability to create a version of the SARS-CoV-2 spike that is more susceptible, but accessible only before infection. The coronavirus spike comes in two shapes — one that looks like a squash flower that antibodies neutralise, and another that is like a spear that antibodies are less effective against. From the known shape of the spike protein, scientists made RNA that instructed cells to make viral spike locked in the squash-flower shape. Changing some of the building blocks locked the spike into a more vulnerable shape. This trick was used not just in mRNA vaccines, but also in some of the other effective vaccines.The incredible success of RNA vaccines is paving the way for the next generation which will require less stringent low temperature requirements and actual RNA component. We can expect RNA technology to be used more widely for other vaccines. RNA vaccine manufacturing is rapid, scalable, and cost-effective. RNA is non-infectious and doesn’t get integrated into the genome. There is no vector so immunity develops against the target.Once you can make one RNA vaccine, you can use the same infrastructure to make a different RNA vaccine against a different target. This simplicity is not available for all other vaccine types.Apart for Covid-19, mRNA vaccines are also being created for rabies, Zika, respiratory syncytial virus, cytomegalovirus infection, parainfluenza, HIV, and Ebola. RNA vaccines are not only being developed to prevent disease but in the case of cancerto treat it. We are entering a golden era of RNA vaccines.Anirban Mahapatra, a microbiologist by training, is the author of COVID-19: Separating Fact From FictionThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/scientifically-speaking-welcoming-a-golden-era-of-rna-vaccines-101621424072098.html
19-05-2021||Today's||From the cities to the wild, the world of bees and human-nature interface||As a child, my dreaded moment walking back home from school was passing under the giant water tower that loomed over the emerging residential buildings around. Why? Simply because that structure was home to some big and menacing honeybee colonies. No effort was spared to get rid of them for the safety of the human residents of the colony.Honey collectors were invited but were only able to destroy a few hives. Come to think of it, they never did wish to get rid of all honeybees – honey was their livelihood. Whenever we saw the honey collectors in their loin-dhoti, jute ropes, leaf-baskets, and smouldering torches, we would run home from the fear of the bees and hail the honey collectors for their bravery from our balconies. For the city kid, the bees did not belong to the urban environment.Decades later, a thousand kilometers from the water tank, I accompanied honey collectors deep into the forest to study their harvesting techniques. They carried battery lights, mountaineering ropes, and bee suits. Rappelling up the trees, protected by the bee suit, the collectors set to task — they extracted the honey chamber leaving the hive intact. A few days before the extraction, they had inspected the hives to select those that looked full or healthy – full of bees and large enough in size – ensuring that honey extraction does not irreparably damage the colonies. This sustainable harvest ensured that the bees were not destroyed, and the honey collectors retained their livelihood. For the biologist, the bees belonged to the wilderness.Also Read | Let’s make the change to green cremationsIn between these two lie our gardens, agricultural fields, and fruit orchards. Here both humans and bees meet more intimately. Here, our relationship with bees goes beyond extraction, it is give-and-take — the nature’s way. In well-wooded gardens, now a relic in most metropolises, bees pollinate ornamental flowers amid inhospitable surroundings. In backyard gardens, it is bees that pollinate flowers. Bees such as the blue-banded bee, leaf-cutter bee, and carpenter bees pollinate eggplant, tomato, as well as chilly by what is called “buzz pollination”. The wingbeats of a bee help the flowers set pollen loose which the bees pocket.In the countryside, the winter mustard fields are abuzz in the mornings – farmers attest to the fact that bees increase their mustard yields. While most of our cereal crops are wind-pollinated, our vegetables, pulses, and legumes are insect-pollinated. It is not farfetched to say that we owe our diverse palate to bees. There are over 650 species of bees, most lead a solitary life and but are equally important pollinators.Also Read | Uran mangroves being buried during lockdown, allege activistsIt has been nearly 25 years between that city kid and the biologist. The “urban” bees are now gone, washed away by insecticidal sprays as buildings around rose higher than the water tower. The collectors have probably changed their vocation to suit the city needs. The “wild” bees, paradoxically, have found saviours in humans — who have shifted from an aggressive method of extracting honey using fire and removing the entire hive to only leaving a small hole in the hive, which a healthy bee colony restores within a week.In this world of rapid urbanisation compounded by intensive farming and habitat degradation, bees are silent victims. Their vanishing underlines a bigger problem that is popularly termed “insect apocalypse”. A study of the effects of pollution from Bengaluru shows reduced lifespan and vitality among bees that live in city centres. Furthermore, rampant pesticide use has resulted in alarming drops in bee populations, leading to what is termed as “colony collapse disorder” — a problem now exacerbated by parasitic infestations, climate crisis, and a plethora of man-induced changes.Our world is incomplete without insects. Just as tigers, elephants, and hornbills represent unique ecosystems, honeybees represent entire communities of other pollinator insects. They represent whole ecosystems down to that fruit on our table, and that makes May 20, World Bee Day, much more than about bees – it is about belonging together with nature.Aniruddha Dhamorikar is Coordinator -Species Conservation, Central India Landscape, WWF IndiaThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/from-the-cities-to-the-wild-the-world-of-bees-and-human-nature-interface-101621421972612.html
19-05-2021||Today's||The NDA’s seven-year report card||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will complete seven years in office next week. While the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has gone from strength to strength under Modi’s leadership, India’s polity, since 2014, has also entered an epoch of unprecedented polarisation.The BJP and its supporters celebrate the last seven years as a period of revolutionary transformation in governance and welfare. The BJP’s opponents accuse the government of failing to deliver on critical challenges, the raging second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic only being the latest example. Reality, as is often the case, is complicated.Let us first look at what is good about this government. Being an astute politician, Modi has been extremely proactive in focusing on certain utilitarian, but critical aspects of governance to boost his government’s welfare credentials. Numerous welfare schemes such provision of LPG cylinders, toilets, houses and now piped water connections have definitely helped raise the living standards of the poor. To be sure, a few of these schemes may be rechristened versions of earlier schemes, but even here, the government has been good at expediting progress, enhancing effectiveness and building a political constituency around it.There have also been reforms on the policy front such as a bankruptcy law and the roll-out of the Goods and Services Tax (GST). These policies have broadly had bipartisan consensus, and were not implemented earlier because of either a lack of political consensus, often a result of opportunistic politics by parties (including the BJP), or sheer inertia to make India’s governance systems up to date with its rapidly transformed domestic capitalism. The centralisation of political power, thanks to the widespread (and correct) perception that the BJP’s phenomenal political success is largely contingent on Modi himself, has definitely helped here.Also Read | Cyclone Tauktae: PM Modi conducts aerial survey of damage in Gujarat, DiuThen there are features of the government’s record that are not so good. A gradual weakening of institutions is of most concern here. A recent study by PRS legislative research has shown that the current government has pushed more ordinances in its seven years than the United Progressive Alliance (UPA) did in its 10 years in power. Many important laws, such as the three bills unleashing radical agricultural reforms, have been pushed through Parliament without sending them to the relevant parliamentary committees. Such acts amount to a direct undermining of democracy, for legislative scrutiny of the executive agenda is an essential pre-requisite of our constitutional design. Independent institutions have also witnessed an erosion in their credibility, largely because they are seen as pliant to the executive.There is also the issue of the BJP and senior functionaries in the government promoting communal weaponisation of policy and polity. The biggest example on this front is the politics around the Supreme Court mandated National Register of Citizens (NRC) in Assam and the subsequent Citizenship (Amendment) Act or CAA. The communal tension such politics has created can erupt into ugly forms at any point of time, such as the Delhi riots of 2020.To be sure, India is not experiencing a squeeze on institutions or pervasive communalism for the first time. What has changed is the magnitude of these problems. For the BJP, this has had mixed results electorally, but society has paid a price.These traits of the Modi government flow from the basic philosophy of the current regime — where ends justify means, with the end in question being retaining the BJP’s political dominance. To be sure, acquiring and retaining political power is (and should be) the ambition of each serious political force. But every political victory of the BJP — and today’s BJP takes every election from panchayat to Parliament very seriously — is inferred as a vindication of the means deployed to secure the end in question. A loss is often interpreted as the need to double down on such policies, while victories are seen as a public endorsement of all of the government’s policies and decisions.Also Watch | Modi govt Vs Kejriwal govt over ‘Singapore strain’ of Covid: Who said what Such a philosophy creates a problem because even objective criticism of the government’s policies is dismissed as either incorrect or politically motivated. While politicians might have their own reasons for unleashing a policy and might or might not succeed in achieving the desired political objectives, this does not guarantee that there will not be any collateral damage from such moves. Policy decisions such as demonetisation, the hasty roll-out of GST or lack of necessary surveillance and preparation against a second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic (or even the flawed vaccine drive) fall in this category of actions by the Modi government. While an overwhelming majority of independent and credible subject-experts have described such policies as incorrect, the BJP, by deploying its massive political capital, has ridden roughshod over such expert criticism.There appears to be, thus, little room for dissent at the high table of policymaking once the political executive has floated or embraced an idea. No political leader, especially in today’s age, where policymaking is complex and multi-disciplinary, can claim infallibility. The probability of going wrong on policymaking increases manifold once the primary motivation is the associated political dividend. This is perhaps the most troubling aspect of the current dispensation.The regime might be going from strength to strength, but this is neither accompanied by the strengthening of State capacity nor social harmony. As is obvious, any challenge to this tendency will have to be political.roshan.k@htlive.comThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-nda-s-seven-year-report-card-101621420938120.html
19-05-2021||Today's||The story of Indian diplomacy in Africa||With the devastation wreaked by the second wave of Covid-19 being felt in India, there has been much criticism of the government’s so-called vaccine diplomacy. The Narendra Modi-led government aimed to become one of the major global suppliers of Covid-19 vaccines, pledging deliveries to many countries. While this pledge directly targeted India’s neighbours in South Asia as well as Seychelles, Myanmar and Mauritius, it also encompassed providing 10 million vaccine doses to the African continent.There is no question, India should have first supplied its own population before exporting doses. But, in principle, the idea of India deepening its footprint in Africa through a vaccine strategy was forward-thinking, and were India not struggling domestically today to vaccinate its own population, could have paid dividends. Although India has immense social capital among African nations, it has not matched this in material ties, and China’s economic and investment presence in Africa has been outstripping India’s for many years.India’s modern ties to Africa go back decades. From Indian trade with and immigration to Africa during the British colonial years to India’s anti-colonial national movement, and its subsequent pioneering of the Non-Aligned Movement (NAM), India established many links to African nations.On the one hand, Indian traders travelled regularly to the East African coast, forming relationships with local inhabitants in ports such as Mombasa and Dar es Salaam as well as with other foreign traders, leading to the establishment of Africa-based family businesses, some of which exist even today.On the other, India’s foreign policy ideas after Independence impacted African decolonisation movements. India’s role in organising the 1955 Bandung conference hosted by Indonesia, for example, was a seminal event. The conference marked the first time that Asian and African countries came together to denounce imperialism and colonialism, and affirm their independence from meddling superpowers. It was also the event at which the seeds of non-alignment were sown.Ancient though these histories may sound today, the fact remains that African countries remember their shared commitment with India to resisting colonialism, and shaping an international order that they hoped would be markedly different from the previous era. This combined with the presence of an influential Indian diaspora has meant that India has meaningful, and positive, relationships with many African countries, and a reputation that China is currently aspiring to acquire.In some ways, this positive relationship has paid off. The India-Africa Framework for Strategic Cooperation signed in 2015 provided impetus to India-Africa trade. In 2018, India was second only to China in its trade volume with sub-Saharan Africa. India exported agricultural commodities, pharmaceuticals, iron and steel, and automobile parts, among other goods, to Africa. Moreover, there was significant collaboration set up around food security — for example, the Nigerian company Tropical General Investments (TGI) has been buying machinery for its factories from Indian manufacturers while exporting its food products, sourced from raw materials in Africa, to Indian markets. At the same time, India’s diplomatic presence increased in Africa as it opened 18 new embassies in the past three years.Yet, despite these achievements, India’s presence in Africa has also lagged significantly behind China. Not only does China’s economic footprint in Africa dwarf that of India, with over 10,000 Chinese firms operating on the continent and China becoming Africa’s largest trading partner, but with the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) projects, China is offering more than simply large infrastructure projects and investments. China is essentially trying to offer an alternative authoritarian model of development to African countries. Its message is that no longer is the liberal international path the only road for African countries to take and prosper.But the truth is, had India’s investments in Africa kept any kind of comparable pace with that of China, it could have made deeper inroads today. Because of the social capital India has in Africa, acquired through the historical, political, economic and people-to-people ties mentioned here, its presence is welcomed by African countries in a way that China’s is not. There is not a whiff, for example, of the accusations of neo-imperialism aimed at Chinese companies. Companies such as Tata Motors in South Africa, Bharti Airtel one of the largest telecom operators on the continent, and the Aditya Birla Group are seen as beneficial for Africa.Thus, India’s vaccine diplomacy could have paid off. Although China has also been offering its vaccines to African nations, there are serious doubts about their efficacy. A thought-fully planned vaccine strategy that prioritised Indians at home, and then turned its attention to other countries would have reaped immense results and delivered a hugely successful foreign policy outcome. Unfortunately, that’s not how it unfolded. But as China is still struggling to ramp up the efficacy of its vaccines, perhaps there may still be a shot for the government to reboot its strategy once the pandemic is under control at home.Manjari Chatterjee Miller is associate professor, Pardee School, Boston University, director, BU Rising Powers Initiative, and research associate, University of Oxford. The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-story-of-indian-diplomacy-in-africa-101621342934174.html
19-05-2021||Today's||Covid-19: The politics of patents||Shortages of vaccines and medicines to cope with Covid-19 are the most perturbing features of the second wave of the pandemic. As if in anticipation of these shortages, India and South Africa tabled a proposal at the World Trade Organization (WTO) in October 2020, for temporarily waiving enforcement of four forms of intellectual property rights (IPRs), copyrights, patents, industrial designs, and trade secrets, in respect of medical products, including vaccines and medicines, for the prevention, containment or treatment of Covid-19.The two countries argued that products necessary for dealing with Covid-19 must be freed from the encumbrances of the Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPS) for ensuring “unimpeded and timely access to affordable medical products”.The waiver proposal was co-sponsored by 62 WTO members and supported by almost two-thirds of the members. But, an influential set of countries, including Australia, Brazil, the European Union (EU), Japan, Switzerland, the United Kingdom (UK), and the United States (US) opposed it. Recently, the US extended support to the proposal, agreeing to waive IPRs only on Covid-19 vaccines.However, even after the truncated support of the US, text-based negotiations on the waiver proposal may not commence soon, for this requires a consensus among WTO members. This implies that shortages of vaccines and medicines will continue until WTO members take a decision on waiving IPRs, allowing the production of these products to increase.Also Read | Covid-19 vaccine protocol for children should already be in place: Rahul GandhiIndia, which is facing shortages of vaccines and medicines, can do better if the government decides to invoke two provisions of the country’s Patents Act, which Parliament included to address public health emergencies. While amending India’s Patents Act after the country joined WTO, lawmakers had included important instruments such as special compulsory licences (Section 92) and government use of inventions (Section 100). These amendments were introduced by the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government in 2001, after the Patent Amendment Bill was deliberated on by a joint committee of the two Houses of the Parliament.Almost coinciding with the discussions in the Indian Parliament, WTO members agreed in the Doha Ministerial Conference that compulsory licences can be used in “national emergency or other circumstances of extreme urgency”.Section 92 allows the Centre to issue compulsory licences any time after the grant of a patent “in circumstances of national emergency or in circumstances of extreme urgency”. The Controller of Patents is authorised to grant a licence to any person interested in producing the patented product and on such terms and conditions as the Controller deems fit. The provision of Section 92 can be applied in case of “public health crises…or other epidemics”. No one, including India’s lawmakers, could anticipate a pandemic such as Covid-19; the worst case scenario for invoking this Section, according to them, was, therefore, “epidemics”.Section 100 enables the Centre, or any person authorised by it, to use the invention “at any time after an application for a patent has been filed at the patent office or a patent has been granted”. In other words, if a vaccine or medicine has been granted a patent in India, or an application for the grant of a patent in India has been made, the government can authorise anyone to produce such a product in the country. While introducing the Patent Amendment Bill in the Parliament, the then commerce and industry minister, Murasoli Maran, had explained that the government can use this provision “only in the interest of public health system. They can procure [patented medicines] and sell [them] to hospitals or they can give it to third parties” for producing in the country.Also Read | Covaxin receives nod for trials on childrenRecently, the Supreme Court (SC) of India “outlined the legal framework within which the Central Government can possibly consider compulsory licensing and government acquisition of patents (Sections 92 and 100), and observed that the government was free to choose any other course of action it deemed fit to tackle the issue of vaccine requirements in an equitable and expedient manner, which may involve negotiations with domestic and foreign producers of vaccines”.However, in its subsequent affidavit before SC, the government had expressed its reluctance to “exercise of statutory powers either under the Patents Act 1970 read with TRIPS Agreement and Doha Declaration … can only prove to be counter-productive at this stage” since the “central government is very actively engaging itself with global organisations at a diplomatic level to find out a solution in the best possible interest of India”.The government’s apprehension may be ill-founded as the US has recently stated in its annual review of IPR policies that it “respects its trading partners’ rights to grant compulsory licenses in a manner consistent with the provisions of the TRIPS Agreement and the Doha Declaration”.We would, therefore, argue that the government must invoke the public health provisions of the Patents Act immediately. By doing so, vaccine production in the country can be ramped up significantly more than offering licences to scale up production of Covaxin to select public sector units, as was done last week. If the Patent Act provisions are not invoked during the Covid-19-pandemic, when will they be invoked?Biswajit Dhar is professor, Centre for Economic Studies and Planning, Jawaharlal Nehru UniversityKM Gopakumar is legal adviser, Third World Network The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-politics-of-patents-101621338133750.html
19-05-2021||Today's||A ‘Mumbai model’ for climate action: Lessons from the pandemic||Mumbai is one of 43 Indian cities amongst the world’s 100 most imperiled by climate-related threats, according to a recent global risk assessment. Cyclone Tauktae’s impact on the city could have been much worse. These extreme weather events indicate that the climate crisis has arrived. The monsoon, each year more mercurial and menacing, will likely once again involve widespread flooding and damage. To address these challenges, instead of episodic and piecemeal steps, Mumbai needs a range of proactive measures.For climate action, the city can emulate principles informing its Covid-19 response, termed the “Mumbai model” by stakeholders including the Supreme Court’s Justice DY Chandrachud. Over the last year, political leaders and the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) have directed resources towards averting a public health disaster. Here are three practices used to tackle the pandemic that can inform Mumbai’s climate change readiness.First, like how Mumbai has deferred to data and doctors about Covid-19, science and experts should guide the city’s climate plans. The BMC must evaluate indicators over varied time horizons: urgently assessing flood prone areas for the coming monsoon; analysing Mumbai’s vulnerability to weather-related disasters and disparities in air pollution and heat between neighbourhoods; and adapting to longer trends like sea level rises and urbanisation due to rural distress. This evidence can help Mumbai create measurable targets about improving infrastructure’s absorptive capacity, enhancing air quality, reducing emissions, increasing public transport ridership, and building affordable and energy efficient homes. This will signal the BMC’s seriousness about improving citizens’ quality of life and safeguarding the economy.Also Read | Coast guard rescues 47 crew members from barge Gal Constructor off Palghar coastSecond, Mumbai minimised some of the devastating impacts of Covid-19’s second wave by investing in testing facilities and building additional capacity of beds and oxygen storage. Similarly, the BMC needs to rapidly ramp up infrastructure to deal with climate-related challenges. For disaster preparedness, Mumbai should secure its electricity supply and build reserve systems for water and power. Guided by data and research, the BMC should upgrade drainage systems and reevaluate ill-conceived projects that only accentuate risk. Building guidelines should emphasise low-rise high density development, mixed use planning and pedestrian access. This will reduce energy consumption from cooling and transportation. Low-rise buildings are also less vulnerable to high intensity winds during cyclones, which are expected more frequently because of a warming Arabian Sea.Crucially, in addition to minimising grey infrastructure’s ecological footprint and emissions, Mumbai must conserve blue and green infrastructure. The Maharashtra government’s declaration of Aarey as a reserve forest and expansion of the eco-sensitive zone around the Thane Creek Flamingo Sanctuary are welcome steps. Studies show that mangroves, wetlands and intact ecosystems are more effective and less expensive than artificial barriers in mitigating climate disasters. The underlying logic of protecting and bolstering nature should be extended urgently and uniformly.Third, Covid-19 has demonstrated how an informed and empowered administration is essential to crisis response. Mumbai must develop institutional capacity so that its officials can govern the complexities of the climate crisis. The decentralisation of power during the pandemic from the chief minister to the municipal commissioner and, in turn, to ward officials will also be critical to climate action. Participatory planning about issues like managing waste and increasing green cover can diminish damage from climate disasters. With incentives for civic participation, Mumbai can create more livable microclimates through community gardens and rooftop farms serving as twenty-first century sacred groves.Also Read | Cyclone Tauktae: Bandra-Worli sea link now open for commute, tweets BMCInstitutional capacity will also be required to facilitate interdepartmental coordination for issues that don’t fall within the BMC’s sole jurisdiction and require navigating layered bureaucracies across multiple agencies and ministries. For instance, the BMC’s collaboration with the Indian Railways and BEST to upgrade and maintain its suburban rail and bus systems will be key to ensuring affordable and green public transportation.With its culture, commerce, capital and capabilities, Mumbai’s considerations to tackle the pandemic and climate crisis are unique. These assets should be leveraged towards addressing the coastal city’s concentration of risk in a warming world. India’s financial capital will only be a viable home for its millions of residents and an engine of economic growth if the BMC uses all its resources towards building climate resilience. For its pandemic response, the local administration has eschewed magical thinking and instead opted for consultative, competent governance. Similarly, the city should not count on miracles to deal with the climate crisis; instead, it must build back better through principles of the Mumbai model.Aaran Patel is an MPP Candidate at the Harvard Kennedy School of GovernmentThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/a-mumbai-model-for-climate-action-lessons-from-the-pandemic-101621336934506.html
19-05-2021||Editorials||On live-in couples, the HC is wrong||The Punjab and Haryana High Court (HC)’s recent ruling, refusing to grant protection to a young couple allegedly facing harassment from the woman’s family, is flawed, both in terms of earlier judicial precedents and constitutional rights. The court said that a live-in relationship could disturb the social fabric of society and was morally and socially wrong. This goes against the view of the Supreme Court (SC), which held, in an earlier case, that the assertion of choice is an “insegregable facet of liberty and dignity”. In fact, the Punjab and Haryana HC last year had remarked in a protection petition filed by a couple that the hearing need not preach on morality or human behaviour.The couple apprehended a threat to their lives — a legitimate plea given the frequency of so-called honour killings. The question before the court was about the protection to be offered to this couple to safeguard their right to life and liberty, not the ethics of live-in relationships which have been deemed legitimate. The apex court has, in the past, issued directives to states to protect couples who have chosen their partners against the wishes of their families, and even provide them safe houses. Unfortunately, HC did not follow suit. The judiciary must stand with the freedom of consenting adults, instead of weighing in on the side of oppressive social structures and illegal family diktats. It must respect the right of adults to choose their partners and be in a relationship in any form they deem fit. The couple in question — to reiterate, both are above 18 — must be accorded protection from any threat of violence, and HC ruling must be challenged and reversed at the earliest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/on-live-in-couples-the-hc-is-wrong-101621433433727.html
19-05-2021||Editorials||Let science drive decisions||On May 13, India announced that the second doses of Covishield — the mainstay of the coronavirus vaccination programme — should be given 12 to 16 weeks after the first. The decision cited data from the United Kingdom (UK), where it was seen that the vaccine triggered more antibodies in people when second shots were given up to 12 weeks later. In fact, the UK was the first country to experiment with an expanded dosing schedule, drawing criticism from several western scientific bodies that said the approach was untested. On May 15, it cited emerging clues about the B.1.617 variants, which originated in India, to reduce the gap – less than two days after the announcement in India.Minute but significant nuances of how the coronavirus vaccines work are slowly being understood. The science is evolving, and so must the strategies. However, authorities must ensure the messaging does not betray a sense of inconsistency — the likelihood of this rises if advisories are changed frequently, as has been the case with India’s dosing ones. Shortly after the UK expanded the gap in January, Indian officials first stood their ground to keep a short gap of 4-6 weeks. Two months later, India adopted a 6-8 week delay, although it was still inconsistent with UK’s 12-week gap. India now recommends that people wait three months if they had Covid-19 to get a vaccine shot – an embargo that neither the UK nor the United States follow.Also Read | How will Covid-19 impact the NDA govt’s economic record in 2024?This is not the first time the messaging from India’s official circles has varied. It has persisted with recommending the malaria drug hydroxychloroquine (HCQ), even though the World Health Organization (WHO) removed it from its list last summer. Similarly, it waited until May 17 to accept clues from its own scientific community (backed by global trials) to stop recommending plasma therapy. A few days earlier, the Drugs Controller General of India authorised the experimental cancer drug 2-DG, despite there being no scientific basis for it its use in Covid-19 in the public domain. Now, India will follow a delayed dosing schedule even as others accelerate vaccinations due to the B.1.617 threat. These do little to improve faith in the government’s decision-making. People are right to ask whether changes in the vaccination strategy are driven by science or compelled by shortage. The discussions leading to these decisions need to be communicated. The government and its experts owe the citizens that transparency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/let-science-drive-decisions-101621427792686.html
19-05-2021||Editorials||RBI’s reading of the economy||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has said, in its monthly bulletin released on May 17, that “the biggest toll” of the ongoing second wave of Covid-19 is “demand shock”. It listed other negatives — “loss of mobility, discretionary spending and employment, besides inventory accumulation” — but emphasised that “aggregate supply is less impacted”. Perhaps because of this, RBI concluded that “the resurgence of Covid-19 has dented but not debilitated economic activity in the first half of 2021-22” and that the economy hasn’t been as badly hit as it was last year (the central bank has added the caveat that this is a tentative assessment).RBI is partly right. Last year, during the first wave, the 68-day lockdown and the subsequent graded (and gradual) easing of more restrictions meant a significant disruption in supply. This year, the Union government, burnt from its experience last year, has steered clear of announcing a national lockdown, leaving it to the states to impose localised lockdowns. Many states did resort to these measures in April as the second wave threatened to overwhelm their health systems, but ensured that there would not be too much of a disruption in industrial activities. The Nomura India Business Resumption Index for the week ended May 16 was 61.9 (100 indicates a pre-pandemic level of activity), a sharp fall from February, when it almost reached pre-pandemic levels. This level was last seen in June 2020, after the hard lockdown ended and industrial activities started resuming. It may fall again this week and next, with many states expected to extend lockdowns as the second wave shows the first signs of ebbing, but it is unlikely it will go down to the levels of around 45 seen last April.But it may be a bit of a stretch to expect to see the same sort of pent-up consumption witnessed last year. Unlike the first wave, the crippling second one has touched many middle-class households in terms of loss of lives or severe illnesses that required extensive and expensive medical treatment. And anecdotally, both businesses and individuals expect their immediate prospects to be muted. Sentiment, both individual and business, has taken a beating. If the Indian economy has to bounce back by the third quarter of this fiscal (the second may be too soon), a proper fiscal stimulus may be called for. RBI’s confidence, while reassuring, may well be misplaced.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/rbis-reading-of-the-economy-101621342759510.html
19-05-2021||Editorials||Prepare for the next challenge — heat waves||It is imperative to build adequate resilient systems to minimise the damage to the people’s health, especially those at the bottom of the pyramid and especially in times of an existing health crisis.An unusually high number of western disturbances in March, April, and May subdued the sweltering heat usually felt in these months, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD). It added that similar conditions are likely to persist till May 18. While there are no other projections on heatwaves from IMD yet, an earlier advisory in March warned that “above normal seasonal maximum temperatures are likely” over most of the country.This means that state governments must begin implementing their strategies to help people cope with the effects of heat waves. There is an additional challenge — most states are under various levels of lockdown, and citizens, many of whom can’t afford cooling mechanisms, are forced to stay inside their homes, which may not be thermally comfortable. According to The Natural Resources Defense Council, nine out of 10 homes in India do not have air-conditioning. With rising peak temperatures, cooling in India is no more a luxury, but a necessity.A study by the Energy Policy Institute at the University of Chicago show that rising temperatures can hurt economic output by reducing the productivity of human labour. The damage, the report added, is greatest when already warm days become hotter.The National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) has been pushing states to build resilience to extreme heat by designing their Heat Action Plans (HAPs), improving public awareness and community outreach; setting up comprehensive early warning systems, and improving interagency coordination; capacity building of health care professionals; and reducing heat exposure and promoting adaptive measures. Today, 23 states have HAPs. NDMA is now encouraging cities to go for low-cost cool roofs (roofs painted with solar reflective paint, covered in white tiles, or with white membranes), which are an easy and cost-effective way to keep indoor temperatures lower and help address the urban heat island challenge. Some states, such as Telangana, has already included a detailed strategy for installing and scaling up cool roofs for up to 300 square kilometers by 2031 in its HAP. Hyderabad has already installed 20,000 square feet of cool roofs and has included cool roofs as one of its corporate social responsibility tools.Along with Heat Action Plans, India needs long-term mitigation through passive cooling measures, better civic planning, more urban and rural water bodies, and a better understanding of the factors impacting heat retention in cities and towns in India. It is imperative to build adequate resilient systems to minimise the damage to the people’s health, especially those at the bottom of the pyramid and especially in times of an existing health crisis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/prepare-for-the-next-challenge-heat-waves-101621342753774.html
