22-05-2021||News||How Rajiv Gandhi’s assassination changed the politics of Sri Lanka, Tamil Nadu||Thirty years ago, Rajiv Gandhi was assassinated in Tamil Nadu’s Sriperumbudur on May 21, 1991 by a suicide bomber (Dhanu/Thenmozhi Rajarathinam) belonging to the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE). Gandhi was scheduled to address an election rally and campaign for Congress’s candidate, Maragatham Chandrasekar.Dhanu triggered an explosive-laden belt she was wearing as she bent down to touch Rajiv Gandhi’s feet. Sixteen people, including Rajiv Gandhi and Dhanu, were killed in the blast and around 45 persons were critically injured. The LTTE had orchestrated the assassination to avenge Gandhi’s decision to send the Indian Peace Keeping Force (IPKF) to intervene in the country between 1987 and 1990 during its three-decade long civil war.The LTTE, also known as Tamil Tigers, was founded in May 1976 by Velupillai Prabhakaran and led the insurgency for an independent nation for Tamils. The LTTE leveraged genuine issues of linguistic discrimination, political disenfranchisement and anti-Tamil riots in the island nation where Sinhalese-Buddhists are a majority — but adopted the politics of violence and terror as the method to attain their objective. And it was this terror that cost India’s former PM his life.Gandhi’s assassination, in fact, marked the middle of a bloodied story that began as an ethnic conflict in Sri Lanka after it became independent from the British in 1948 and turned into a civil war in the 1980s, which ended only in 2009 with the Sri Lankan military wiping out the LTTE. But his death was a significant turning point in this story, where what was unequivocal Tamil solidarity from across the Palk Straits shifted away from the LTTE, changing both the politics of Sri Lanka and of Tamil Nadu.The erosion of cross-border Tamil solidarity“The assassination was a setback for not only pro-Eelam forces but also for Tamil nationalists,” says Thiyagu (who goes only by a first name), general secretary, Tamil National Liberation Movement. “Doing away with him was an act of revenge because people were aggrieved with the IPKF. It was a political blunder by whoever did it.”In the 1980s and 1990s, during the peak of the war, it was common for LTTE leaders to even stay in the homes of their supporters in Tamil Nadu. Civil society had been sympathetic to the Tamil cause. Dravidian party leaders including M Karunanidhi of the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) and MG Ramachandran, founder of the Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (ADMK later renamed AIADMK), were close to Prabahakaran who stayed often in Chennai during his visits. LTTE also had had units in Tamil Nadu. Vaiko, the founder of MDMK (Marumalarchi Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam), then a Rajya Sabha member of DMK, had gone to Sri Lanka to meet with LTTE leadership.Also Read | Rajiv Gandhi’s simplicity was his strength — and his failing“Tamil Nadu was a supply chain for the LTTE in terms of food, petroleum and textile needs. Soon after the assassination, this support got drained. Common people began viewing the conflict differently,” says Ramu Manivannan, head, politics and public administration, University of Madras. “Only parties like the Dravida Kazhagam (DK) remained as a source of political support for the issue in Sri Lanka particularly for the LTTE.”The application of anti-terrorist laws in the next two decades kept all militant support to the Eelam issue on the leash, says retired Madras high court justice K Chandru. “Only the humanitarian help to refugees and prisoners continued,” he says.The political impact in Tamil Nadu Politically, the DMK bore the aftermath of the assassination the most, even though the then Prime Minister Chandra Shekhar had dismissed the DMK-led state government in January 1991 by invoking Article 356 for “law and order deterioration”. Later, his principal secretary SK Misra claimed, in his book, Flying in High Winds, that the ouster was due to links between the DMK and the LTTE gathered by the Research and Analysis Wing (RAW) and the Intelligence Bureau (IB).The DMK denied the accusations. “We weren’t even in power at that time and we were blamed for the asssassination,” says DMK MP and veteran leader TKS Elangovan. “We were in favour of a native homeland for Tamils considering the human rights violations in Sri Lanka, not the LTTE. That stance hasn’t changed even today. After the war, MK Stalin and TR Balu met with the UNHCR in Geneva over the issue. Our fight is for the human rights of Tamils.”President’s rule was imposed from January to June 1991 until Tamil Nadu went for assembly elections, in which the AIADMK-Congress swept the polls riding on the sympathy wave following the assassination and J Jayalalithaa became chief minister for the first time. It was DMK’s worst performance having won only two seats. “Rajiv Gandhi was expected to come to power in the 1991 general elections. The results showed that in his death, he was stronger than in his life,” says Thiyagu.In the mid-1990s, the Justice Milap Chand Jain commission report held that the DMK had abetted Gandhi’s murderers. Karunanidhi had deposed before the commission in January 1997 and explained that though he had supported the LTTE along with other parties, he withdrew his support after the murder of K Padmanabha, leader of another militant group, Eelam People’s Revolutionary Liberation Front (EPRLF), in June 1990.Also Read | India observes former PM Rajiv Gandhi’s 30th death anniversary todayActivists and political analysts term the report as resorting to double standards for absolving the AIADMK of helping the LTTE. “There are so many questions unanswered in the report. There was a considerable divide between the DMK and the LTTE even at that time,” says Manivannan. But there was a clear political fallout. The Congress withdrew support to the then I K Gujral led United Front government, of which DMK was a key constituent.The endgame In 2004, Gandhi’s wife, Sonia Gandhi became the chairperson of the United Progressive Alliance of which the Congress was the largest party. The following year, Mahinda Rajapaksa was elected President of Sri Lanka. “That was a coincidence but subsequently they became allies,” says Manivannan.In 2009, after the end of the war, Rajapaksa said that he fought India’s war by crushing the Tamil Tigers. “Since Sonia Gandhi took over the reins of the party, the Congress leadership was clear that at the right time they would look at a solution for Sri Lanka’s issue. The Congress had a dual line. It’s often been believed that the DMK was allowed to have a free reign between 2004 and 2009 at the Centre so that it didn’t create blockades to the Indian foreign policy,” added Manivannan.But during the final stages of the war in 2009, Tamil nationalism saw a revival with public sentiment once again sympathetic towards the Tamil cause in Sri Lanka.“People had moved on from the assassination and public perception was that India played an active role in the genocide of Tamils,” says Thiyagu. “It became an emotional issue and people were out on the streets calling for the war to stop.”This was also accompanied by criticism of the DMK for having sided with the Congress. It lost the 2011 assembly polls, and got wiped out in the 2014 Lok Sabha polls — and while this was due to a set of complex domestic issues, including allegations of corruption, observers believe that the DMK’s stance on Sri Lanka also cost it popular support. Seeing a void, Tamil nationalist S Seeman floated the Naam Tamizhar Katchi with Prabhakaran as his idol and, in the 2021 polls, the party has emerged as the third largest after DMK and AIADMK.Also Watch| Rajiv Gandhi death anniversary: Rahul, Priyanka, Kejriwal & others pay tributesThe Tamil issue continues to be a burning subject with a call for the 13th amendment — agreed upon in the Indo-Sri Lankan accord of 1987 that envisages more power for Tamils in provisional councils in Sri Lanka — to be implemented in letter and spirit. More recently, right before Tamil Nadu’s assembly polls, the Bharatiya Janata Party-led central government decided to abstain from voting in a UNHRC resolution against Sri Lanka earlier in March this year against war-crimes committed against Tamils — those critics who wanted India to support Sri Lanka termed the move as dictated by the imperatives of politics of Tamil Nadu, while critics back in the state, who wanted India to vote against Sri Lanka, felt Delhi had once again given Colombo a reprieve at the cost of Tamil rights.The fate of the convictsThe assassination of Rajiv Gandhi is also alive in the public sphere, with a debate over the release of the seven convicts in the case who are serving a life term inside prisons in Tamil Nadu. “After three decades there is hardly any strong view opposed to their release,” says Chandru, the retired HC chief justice.On Thursday, Tamil Nadu’s new chief minister, MK Stalin, wrote to President Ram Nath Kovind seeking to remit the life sentence of the seven convicts, and direct their immediate release. The seven convicts are Nalini Sriharan, Murugan, Santhan, AG Perarivalan, Jayakumar, Robert Payas, and P Ravichandran who are inside Tamil Nadu prisons.“The majority of the political parties in Tamil Nadu have been requesting for the remission of the remainder of their sentence and for immediate release of all the seven convicts as they have been incarcerated for about three decades. It is also the will of the people of Tamil Nadu,” Stalin said in his letter.Stalin pointed out Nalini Sriharan’s original death sentence was commuted to life under Article 161 of the Indian Constitution and the Supreme Court had also commuted the death sentence of three other convicts to life. In 2018, Tamil Nadu cabinet passed a unanimous resolution for the release of all seven and it was sent to Governor Banwarilal Purohit for his assent.During a case hearing in the Supreme Court on Perarivalan’s remission, an affidavit submitted noted that Purohit was awaiting a report of the Multi-Disciplinary Monitoring Agency of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to make his decision. But in subsequent hearings, CBI clarified that there was no connection between the remission of the sentence and investigation. The apex court also termed the Governor’s delay as “extraordinary”. However, in February earlier this year, Purohit refrained from taking a call on the matter and said that the President was the competent authority to make a decision.Stalin recalled this and added that Purohit forwarded the state’s recommendation to the President. “These seven persons have already suffered untold hardship and agony in the past three decades and have paid a heavy price. There has already been an inordinate delay in the consideration of their pleas for remission. In the present circumstances of the Covid-19 pandemic, courts are also recognising the need to decongest prisons.”On Wednesday, Stalin had granted a month’s ordinary leave for Perarivalan on medical grounds after considering an appeal from his mother Arputham Ammal that since Covid-19 is spreading fast in prisons, he was at a higher risk due to his health condition.But even as the legal-political debate on the fate of the convicts plays out, perhaps the most poignant element of the story is the dynamic between the victim’s family and the convicts. Rajiv Gandhi’s family has forgiven the killers, and in March 2008, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra went to meet one of the convicts, Nalini Sriharan, in the Vellore jail. But beyond the family, 30 years later, the issue of Rajiv Gandhi’s assassination remains inextricably linked to regional geopolitics, the mood in Tamil Nadu, the ethnic equations in Sri Lanka, and the central government’s security imperatives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/how-rajiv-gandhi-s-assassination-changed-the-politics-of-sri-lanka-tamil-nadu-101621596948985.html
22-05-2021||Other||Covid appears to recede with 582 new cases, 17 deaths in Ludhiana||The curfew and lockdown restrictions seem to be helping Ludhiana as the number of infections as well as the deaths continued the downward trend on Saturday. The fresh cases dropped to 582 against 687 cases on Friday while the fatalities went down to 17, from 23 the day before. It is for the first time since May 15 that less than 20 deaths have been reported in the city. The latest fatalities, which include 13 men and four women, have taken the district’s toll to 1,854.The maximum number of deaths include people in their 40s (two deaths), 50s (six deaths), followed by those in their 60s (seven deaths). A 29-year-old male from Sahnewal was the youngest to succumb to the virus in the last 24 hours.Ludhiana now has 9, 355 active cases.Presently, there are 51 patients on ventilators, out of which 28 are from Ludhiana while 23 are from other districts and states.Deputy commissioner (DC) Varinder Kumar Sharma appealed to residents to adhere to all safety protocols to stay safe in these times.Civil surgeon Dr Kiran Ahluwalia expressed respite over the declining number of cases. She said that the curbs imposed by the administration have started showing results.However, she warned people against complacency. “We should make sure to not lose the gains of this lockdown. It is all the more important that we continue adhering to Covid appropriate behaviour, maintain social distance, wear masks, frequently wash hands and avoid going to crowded places,” said Dr Kiran Ahluwalia.3 of a family dead in five daysThe contagion snuffed out the lives of three members of a family in five days in Jagraon.Resident Harvinder Singh said on May 17, his sister-in-law Manpreet Kaur passed away, the next day his younger brother Balwinder Singh succumbed to Covid and on Friday evening, his father Nirmal Singh lost his battle to the virus. Terrified by the deaths, the remaining family members have left the house and are currently taking shelter in an isolation center.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid-appears-to-recede-with-582-new-cases-17-deaths-in-ludhiana-101621708199419.html
22-05-2021||Chandigarh||Positivity rate drops to 6.6% in Punjab, lowest in 2 months||Even as the number of deaths in Punjab crossed the 200 mark once again on Saturday, the positivity rate in the state has halved in the past ten days. Positive rate is the true indicator of the growth or decline in the spread of an infection, as it is the proportion of people testing positive among all those sampled.On Saturday, the state registered lowest positivity rate in the past two months, with only 6.6% of the samples tested for the virus found positive, as compared to 14.2% on May 12, which was the highest. This drop is coupled with a record 82,097 tests conducted on Saturday.Moreover, it is for the first time in the past one month that none of the districts registered more than 15% positivity rate. Only two districts, Pathankot (10.37%) and Fazilka (10.39%), registered more than 10% positivity rate. In a big sigh of relief, the industrial town of Ludhiana, which at one point was registering highest positivity rate, recorded just 3.9%, lowest after SBS Nagar. 5,421 cases, 201 deathsMeanwhile, the state registered 5,421 fresh cases while 7,363 people recovered from the virus and 201 succumbed to it, bringing down the active case load. Among the fresh cases, 582 surfaced in Ludhiana, followed by 555 in Mohali, 445 in Jalandhar, 411 in Bathinda, 400 in Amritsar, 363 in Patiala and 305 in Muktsar. Bathinda and Patiala registered maximum 20 deaths each, followed by 19 in Amritsar, 17 in Ludhiana, 12 each in Fazilka and Amritsar and nine each in Faridkot, Sangrur and Jalandhar. As many as 7,280 persons were on oxygen support while 381 were on ventilator support on Saturday evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/positivity-rate-drops-to-6-6-in-punjab-lowest-in-2-months-101621708079285.html
22-05-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: ACB arrests two cops on corruption charges||The anti-corruption bureau (ACB) on Friday arrested an assistant police inspector (API) and a sub-inspector from Dharavi police station for allegedly taking bribe from a private construction contractor to shield him from severe legal action.ACB claimed to have arrested API Prabhakar Joshi, 44, red handed while accepting the bribe amount. ACB officers also arrested sub-inspector Amol Gade, 27, in the case.ACB officers said that the complainant contractor was booked last month by Dharavi police in a case for assaulting a public servant and obstructing him from performing his duty. In this case police had seized ₹40,000 cash and other belongings of the complainant. However, when the complainant recently went to the police station to collect the money and belongings, Gade told him only ₹30,000 was seized from his possession back then. Gade also retained ₹15,000 as bribe and returned only ₹15,000 to the complainant, ACB said.Later, Gade produced the complainant before Joshi, who demanded ₹12,000 for not initiating externment proceeding against him. The complainant then reported the matter to ACB. The agency, after due verification of facts, laid a trap on Friday and arrested Joshi while accepting ₹12,000 bribe from the complainant at the police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-acb-arrests-two-cops-on-corruption-charges-101621707958692.html
22-05-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Steel firm directors booked for tax default of ₹92 crore||MRA Marg police booked two directors of a Fort-based steel product manufacturing company for allegedly defaulting ₹92.92 crore worth Sales Tax and Value Added Tax to the state government between 2014 and 18.Chetan Mehta and Mahadev Shringare, directors of Opera Steel Private Limited, have been booked on the complaint of Shrikant Gavare, a sales tax officer. Gavare in his statement to police has stated that the company defaulted in paying the due tax to the state government between 2014 and 18, and that the amount has now become ₹92,92,66,312 with interest and penalty. Various letters, summons, notices, reminders, warning summons and police prosecution notice have been slapped to the company and its directors, but the tax department never received any response from company officials, a police officer said.The company moved the Bombay high court against the tax department’s order, but the same was rejected by the court. They then filed an appeal in higher court and the matter is currently subjudice. But, the court has not passed any stay order on the tax department’s action and the company, too, had not approached the department with any court order. As per the first information report (FIR), a copy of which is with HT, tax officials also claimed that sufficient time and fair opportunity was given to the company for paying the tax, but they failed to do so. “From this, it prima facie appears that the accused company and its directors have committed an offence as per section 74(2) of the Value Added Tax Act, 2002,” Gavare said in the police complaint. Hence, as a last resort, the department on Thursday registered a criminal case against two directors of the company under sections 420 (cheating), 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code, section 9 of the Central Sales Tax Act and 74(2) of the Value Added Tax Act, 2002. The police are now going through the document and communication details submitted by the complainant. The accused would soon be summoned for questioning, and if they fail to respond to the summons they may face arrest, another police officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-steel-firm-directors-booked-for-tax-default-of-92-crore-101621707898766.html
22-05-2021||Mumbai||I jumped holding hands of my cousins but lost them to the sea, recalls P305 tragedy survivor||Udaram Meghawal was visibly upset and infuriated when he started arguing with a guard at Sir JJ Hospital mortuary on Friday evening. “Show me the mark of cut on the shoulder and the lost finger,” he insisted when the guard and a policeman asked him to check if a body of a matching height and built was that of his elder son, Amararam, 40.The 65-year-old from a remote village in Pali district of Rajasthan was unable to cope with the news that he had lost both his sons — Amararam and Pappuram, 32 — in barge Papaa305 or P305 tragedy.However, the guard informed him that such marks will not be visible, as the body was swollen due to drowning. Meghawal reluctantly took three rounds of the mortuary and examined the body again and again, but did not identify the body as that of his elder son.“My world is devastated and I am feeling as if all my cognitive functions are dead,” said Meghawal. He said he was “afraid of facing his two daughters-in-law and their four children aged between three and 11 years”. What bothered him the most was this: “Now, who will provide for them, who will take care of them?”He left the hospital mortuary late on Friday evening with the body of Pappuram and performed last rites on Saturday afternoon at his hometown. Now, one of his nephews will visit the mortuary on Sunday to ascertain if any of new the bodies at the mortuary is that of Amararam.Both Amararam and Pappuram were working on P305 along with their cousin Mahendra Ranawat, 19. All three of them had jumped in the sea around 4pm on Monday (May 17) when water had entered the ill-fated accommodation barge and it was about to sink. Ranawat was rescued by INS Kochi, 16 hours later at 8am on Tuesday, while Pappuram’s body was recovered during search and rescue operation and Amararam is still missing.“Amararam and Pappuram were doing piping work on the barge when they took me on the ship as a helper, said Mahendra. The 19-year-old comes from a farming family and is one of the five siblings — two elder sisters and two younger brothers. After completing Class 12, he decided to work to help his father financially for his sister’s marriage. Pappuram brought him to Mumbai and after completing paperwork, they went on to the barge on November 4. His salary was being deposited in his father’s bank account to ensure maximum savings.Ranawat said that on May 15 all of them were informed about the incoming cyclone. On Sunday evening, wind speed started increasing and the gusty sound gave an indication of what lied ahead. The crew members were, however, not mentally prepared for what happened next. All eight anchor cables of the barge gave way by Monday morning, leaving the barge at the mercy of the stormy weather. The barge drifted and hit a platform; soon water started entering the barge from the damaged side and the vessel began tilting, said Ranawat, adding that by 2pm on Monday water level reached the deck and crew members started jumping in the choppy sea. Following suit, he and his two cousins jumped in the sea together so as to avoid drifting at 4pm, about an hour before the barge capsized. “However, as we jumped from the barge, water gushed in the wind pipe of Pappuram and he started gasping for breath,” said the 19-year-old. “We tried to help him stay above water level, but the high waves made it difficult and eventually Pappuram breathed his last around 6.30pm.”Ranawat and Amararam, however, continued to hold hands. “Both of us were crying and pleading for help,” said Ranawat who, around three hours later, realised that Amararam’s movement stopped. As wind speed increased further and waves roared higher, he got separated from his cousins and drifted away.Exhausted and famished due to the rough seas and lack of food since Sunday afternoon, he again saw Pappuram floating a few metres away from him. He tried to reach Pappuram, but couldn’t because of the high waves. Completely helpless and alone, the 19-year-old let the sea take him wherever it wished and floated with the help of the life-jacket. Around 8am on Tuesday, May 18, the naval ships engaged in search and rescue operation noticed Ranawat and rescued him. He was one of the 125 survivors brought to Mumbai by INS Kochi on May 19.“I had lost all my belongings. I remembered the mobile number of a cousin who lives in Pune. I called and informed him about the incident,” he said, with tears rolling down his eyes. The cousin then informed their family about the tragedy. Meghawal said he came to Mumbai by train after hearing about the incident and reached the city on May 21. He directly went to the Sir JJ Hospital with one of his nephews, Kishor Ranawat, and shortly identified the body of his younger son, Pappuram.“Nothing can be more burdensome and agonizing than the bereavement of one’s own children,” said Kishor, adding, “Now we have to bear the grief and sorrow of the death my brothers.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/i-jumped-holding-hands-of-my-cousins-but-lost-them-to-the-sea-recalls-p305-tragedy-survivor-101621707839980.html
22-05-2021||Other||Hit-and-run: 12-year-old killed by a dumper in Kalyan, driver arrested||A 12-year-old boy died after he was hit-and-run over by a garbage dumper near Gaodevi temple in Kachore village, Kalyan (West), on Saturday. The incident occurred when the victim Amit Dhakad was playing cricket with his friends. The dumper driver has been arrested.According to the police, the boy was playing in the temple premises when he was hit by the dumper, after which, he fell under the tyre and was run over.“A group of boys were playing at the temple premises. Amit ran to pick the ball when the dumper that was taking a reverse turn, hit him and ran over him. We have booked the dumper driver and arrested him,” said an officer of Tilaknagar police station.After the incident, locals rushed Dhakad to a nearby hospital. However, he was declared dead on arrival by the doctors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hitandrun-12-year-old-killed-by-a-dumper-in-kalyan-driver-arrested-101621707838655.html
22-05-2021||Mumbai||Four bodies found along Raigad beaches, suspected to be of those missing from barge P305||Raigad authorities have found four bodies along three different beaches of Raigad in the past two days, suspected to be of those still missing from barge P305. The authorities are now trying to establish the identity by matching it with the identification marks of missing crew members. Raigad superintendent of police Ashok Dudhe said, “The first body was found at Murud beach on Friday evening, following which Yellow gate police station and ONGC officials were alerted. On Saturday morning, two more were found from Nagaon beach and one from Sasawne beach in Alibag taluka. Decomposed and bloated, the bodies are beyond identification.” All four are suspected to be in their 40s. Of the four of them, three had no garments on the body when found ashore while one of them found at Nagaon had a jacket like clothing on the body. The bodies have been sent to Alibag civil hospital for post-mortem. “We are in touch with ONGC officials and Yellow Gate police. Till now, they have not been identified. We have been provided with a list of people missing from the barge along with their identification marks. We are trying to match them with the bodies to establish their identity. If the clothes would have been intact, identifying would have been easier,” Dudhe said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/four-bodies-found-along-raigad-beaches-suspected-to-be-of-those-missing-from-barge-p305-101621707839304.html
22-05-2021||Delhi||Covid-19: Delhi records 3.58% positivity rate, lowest cases since March 31||With 2,269 new cases of Covid-19, Delhi reported the lowest daily incidence of the viral infection in 52 days on Saturday, and the positivity rate – the proportion of samples that return positive – dropped to 3.58%, a figure, experts said, showed the fourth wave was gradually coming under control in the national capital.The Capital has been under a lockdown for a month; the “last resort” step was taken after a massive surge in infections overwhelmed the health care infrastructure and resulted in shortages of essential supplies such as medical oxygen and life-saving drugs.In April, Delhi reported its worst surge of Covid-19, with the number of cases recorded in a single day shooting up to over 28,000 and the positivity rate to 36%, meaning more than one in three people tested were found to have the infection. It has now reduced to around one in 33 tested people having the infection.Dr Jacob John, former head of the department of virology at Christian Medical College-Vellore, said the government should now focus on vaccinating a significant proportion of the population to prevent a third wave.With reports of a shortage of vaccines for those between the ages of 18 and 44 years, the number of jabs given in Delhi almost halved on Saturday. About 50,000 jabs were administered, according to the official health bulletin; the daily jabs crossed 100,000 a day after the vaccination was opened up for the younger population in the Capital.“Some curbs have to remain – malls, gyms, cinemas, weddings any place where people gather. With a large number of people exposed to the infection, there might not be a surge for the next few months... this time needs to be utilised to vaccinate a significant proportion of the people,” said Dr Amit Singh, associate professor, Centre for Infectious Disease Research, Indian Institute of Science, Bengaluru.He added: “In the absence of vaccines, the government also needs to see whether it is prepared with beds and oxygen needed in case there is a surge again.”On Saturday, Delhi reported 182 deaths due to the viral infection, dipping below the 200 mark for the first time in 34 days. However, with fewer cases and a high number of deaths still being reported, the seven day rolling average case fatality ratio (CFR) – proportion of deaths among those who test positive – has shot up to 6.15%. The cumulative CFR – based on the total number of cases and deaths reported so far – is at 1.63%, higher than the national average of 1.1%.As per the latest health bulletin, the new fatalities pushed the death toll due to Covid-19 in the national capital to 23,013. The number of daily cases in the city was 2,260, Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain said on Twitter, adding: “These are lowest numbers after 31 March. Still need to take all precautions and follow Covid appropriate behaviour.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covid19-delhi-records-3-58-positivity-rate-lowest-cases-since-march-31-101621707533292.html
22-05-2021||Mumbai||Incidents of wild animals drowning in wells is a matter of concern for experts, activists||Since April 15 this year, 11 wild animals have drowned in open wells in Maharashtra. These include two tiger cubs, a family of four sloth bears (with two cubs), a jackal, one blackbuck, a jungle cat, a leopard and a nilgai. Another 33 animals, including 10 wild boar, 16 nilgai, a tiger cub, a rock python and a leopard, were rescued from open wells during the same period, according to data with the forest department, and independent logs maintained by Satpuda Foundation — an Amravati-based wildlife conservation group.All incidents, barring two leopards in Pune’s Junnar taluka, occurred in agricultural fields in Vidarbha districts, within or close to buffer areas around tiger reserves. Earlier, in January 2021, a gaur (Indian bison) in Mahabaleshwar was rescued from a 50-foot-deep well. In November last year, a striped hyena had also been rescued by a volunteer group from an uncovered well in Ane village near Otur, Junnar. A SIMPLE FIX?Experts and activists expressed concern at the frequency of such incidents. These may not pose a significant conservation risk, but are easily preventable with little logistical support.“A few leopards or bears drowning in wells every year is not going to make a huge dent in their overall population. Human beings kill wild animals in larger numbers through various other means. But in this case, the solution is apparently quite simple — you just have to cover the well,” said Dr Aniruddha Belsare, a wildlife veterinarian, conservation researcher and disease ecologist who has previously studied human-leopard conflict in Maharashtra. Another “no-cost band-aid” solution, he said, would be providing “jugaad ladders” in these open wells that animals can use to get out.And yet, animals have been dying in this manner for decades, exclaimed Bandu Dhotre, a Chandrapur-based wildlife activist and non-government member of the State Board for Wildlife (SBWL). Satpuda Foundation, for example, has scattered records of bears, deer, nilgai, leopards and tigers drowning in irrigation canals and tube-wells going back to 2011.In 2012, when Dhotre had staged a hunger strike in front of the forest department’s district headquarters for better protection of tigers around protected areas in Vidarbha, one of his demands was that open wells in buffer areas be covered.“This has been done at a lot of places around Tadoba Tiger Reserve where the wells are now covered with wire mesh or fenced. But we’ve started seeing such accidents in places where they were not happening earlier,” said Dhotre, referring to the recent casualties.While Dhotre speculated that wild animals in these areas may be expanding their ranges, leading them to agricultural fields and eventually to uncovered wells, experts cautioned against accepting this hypothesis without further study.Nevertheless, activists, experts and even officials agreed that such deaths are likely being grossly underreported. “We only hear about it when a large or exotic animal dies in this manner in areas where the forest department is active. But you cannot track every casualty. There are still places remote enough, and animals that are not glamorous enough, that we may never see the full scale of the problem,” said Kishor Rithe, head of Satpuda Foundation and a non-government member of SBWL.ANIMALS LIKELY ENDURE PROLONGED DISTRESSThough experts, particularly wildlife veterinarians, cautioned against anthropomorphising these accidents, they conceded that most animals that drown in wells are sure to have experienced painful and prolonged deaths. A veterinarian who has conducted dozens of post-mortems for such cases said he first looks to an animal’s claws for such indications.“One of the first things I check is nails. I’ve seen leopards and bears where the animal has struggled so much, trying to grab onto something, that their sharp nails become extremely blunt. It really gives you a sense of how much the animal has struggled,” said Dr Nikhil Bangar, veterinarian at the Mandikoh Leopard Rehabilitation Centre in Junnar. Even Belsare, who was more reluctant to use words like pain and suffering in this context, said, “Most wild animals are great swimmers. They will do all they can to stay afloat, before they develop hypothermia, fatigue and other medical conditions leading to drowning. These deaths are not instant, or easy , and often involve prolonged stress.”Though forest department officials did not share post-mortem reports of the 11 casualties referred to at the outset of this report (citing confidentiality), the cause of death in all cases has been attributed to drowning, they confirmed. This is done on the basis of a simple forensic test, in which a small piece of lung tissue is set in a glass of water. “If the tissue floats, the animal did not drown. It may have been poisoned, poached and then thrown into the well, opening up another line of investigation. But if the lung sinks, it means the animal did indeed drown,” Dr Belsare explained. But, he also emphasised that the process of drowning itself is not as simple as the test which confirms it. There is, in fact, a more complex sequence of events that eventually culminates in death for the animal.HT also spoke to a wildlife veterinarian currently employed with the forest department at a tiger reserve in Vidarbha who has conducted post-mortems in such cases for all manner of wildlife, including leopards, sub-adult tigers, bears and deer. “In case of drownings, we do not typically ask questions beyond the lung test. It is time consuming and we need specialised vets to conduct post-mortems and interpret the data. The drowning conclusion may be reductive, but further investigation is not encouraged.”THE MECHANISM OF DROWNINGFrom a coroner’s perspective, one of the first physiological responses an animal might experience in such a case is hypothermia, followed by exhaustion. “There could be a drop in body temperature due to the water, and as the animal struggles to stay afloat there will be a build-up of lactic acid in the muscles. Eventually the airway will become submerged as fatigue sets in. Water will enter the lungs, causing air-hunger, leading to asphyxiation,” said Dr Naveen Pandey, wildlife veterinarian with the Corbett Foundation. .Metabolic changes that occur during drowning may also cause cardiac arrhythmias or cardiac arrest. “Sometimes, in case of more delicate animals like deer, the creature may even die before asphyxiation. In this case we look for certain lesions on the heart called petechial haemarroaghes, which broadly indicate cardiac arrest,” said Pandey. A drowning animal may develop a range of other conditions in combination with one another, from aspiration pneumonia which is caused by entry of oral or gastric contents into the lungs, to pulmonary edemas where air sacs in the lungs fill up with fluid, explained wildlife veterinarians who spoke to HT for this story. Experts described five broad stages of this process — struggling; violent intentional movement and breathlessness; deep respiratory movements, swallowing of water, immobility and convulsions; loss of corneal reflexes and hampered vision; and slowing down of respiratory movements, unconsciousness, and finally drowning.“During the first phase, the muscles get overworked. In the second phase, the animals may experience laryngospasms, where the trachea involuntarily closes. As the animal struggles to breathe, respiratory acidosis occurs when the body is not able to remove carbon dioxide due to a lack of oxygen. Then oxygen depletion leads to unconsciousness, and this further allows water to enter the lungs and airways, making them bulky and distended. Lungs get inflammation, leading to pneumonia-like conditions and pulmonary edemas,” said Dr Bangar.Eventually, the lack of oxygen leads to irreversible brain damage, putting the animal in a coma. “No longer able to struggle or see, the animal drowns. But as I’ve said, there is a lot that happens before that final moment of death,” he added. A 2016 paper in the peer-reviewed journal Veterinary Pathology describes the process as such: “The drowning process is complex, involving sequential, concurrent and overlapping cardiorespiratory reflexes, electrolyte and blood gas abnormalities, aspiration and swallowing of liquid, vomition, struggling, involuntary movements and physical exhaustion, breathlessness, or air-hunger, eventually culminating in death.” ADMINISTRATIVE WILL REQUIREDSince 2011, there have been at least three general resolutions (GR) passed at the state level pertaining to joint forest management practices in wildlife dense areas which have recommended that wildlife-proofing of wells be expedited in protected and non-protected areas. The latest of these was passed by the forest department under Dr Shyama Prasad Mukherji Jan Van Vikas Yojana in August 2015.“As per these GRs, zilla parishads are tasked with the responsibility of covering open wells. An amendment to the last GR in 2017 even devolved powers to the forest department to take up the issue, but the administration has been extremely slow on the uptake. Meanwhile, animals continue to drown, and we simply write them off with obligatory post-mortems,” said Rithe.Responding to these concerns, Nitin Kakodkar, principal chief conservator of forests (Maharashtra), drew attention to various administrative challenges faced by the department. The main issue, he said, is that these wells are located outside the boundaries of protected areas, where the forest department has no administrative jurisdiction. Moreover, there is no legal consequence for an individual, say a farmer, who leaves their well uncovered, causing death of an animal.“Many of these wells are built under various government schemes, which do not have strict mandates for protection of wildlife. But we are making efforts to plug the gaps. We regularly raise the issue with zila parishads. In Bhandara, where two tiger cubs drowned in a siphon well this month, we have identified 32 such wells and temporarily covered 28 of them. The irrigation department has been instructed to find a permanent solution,” said Kakodkar.Experts, on the other hand, were not inclined to laud these measures. “It is just a hole in the ground. The fact that stakeholders have still not found a way to just cover them up strikes me as extremely lazy,” said Dr Belsare.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/incidents-of-wild-animals-drowning-in-wells-is-a-matter-of-concern-for-experts-activists-101621707778667.html
22-05-2021||Other||Ludhiana’s MD Oswal Hospital resumes vaccination, 5 more pvt ones to follow suit from May 28||In a relief for vaccine aspirants complaining of huge rush at government session sites, Mohan Dai Oswal hospital resumed Covid-19 vaccinations on Saturday after receiving a fresh stock of 2,000 Covishield doses. The hospital is charging ₹850 from each beneficiary for the two doses. Five other private hospitals, including Dayanand Medical College & Hospital (DMCH), SPS Hospital, Fortis Hospital, Deep Hospital and Verma Multispeciality, are also set to resume vaccinations from May 28 when they are expected to receive fresh stocks from the Serum Institute of India. Mohan Dai Oswal Hospital is to receive 10,000 more doses on the day. Private hospitals had to suspend vaccination drives in late April as the district administration fell short of its vaccine stock, prompting it to reserve the doses only for government session sites. This resulted in heavy rush at government-run vaccination sites in the city. The problem compounded when the government began vaccinating the 18 to 44 age group from May 9. The rush was so overwhelming that the health department was forced to cancel the pre-registration of slots done by residents through the CoWin app. Inaugurating the vaccination drive at Mohan Dai Oswal hospital on Saturday, deputy commissioner (DC) Varinder Kumar Sharma and police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal urged residents to get vaccinated as soon as possible so that herd immunity is achieved against Covid-19. The DC said that a fresh batch of 1.12 lakh doses will reach six private hospitals on May 28. Of these, 50,000 doses would reach DMCH, 25,000 will be for SPS Hospital, 10,000 for Fortis Hospital, 10,000 more for Mohan Dai Oswal Hospital, 15,000 for Deep Hospital and 2,000 at Verma Multispeciality hospital. He said residents can get themselves vaccinated at these private hospitals by paying a nominal charge, whereas in government facilities, the jabs are completely free. He said MD Oswal Hospital is charging ₹850 from each beneficiary, whereas at other hospitals, the cost may vary. He informed that these private hospitals have sourced the vaccine directly from the Serum Institute of India at their own cost. He urged all private hospitals to source this vaccine and if any hospital is interested in book vaccine doses, they can contact Sandeep Kumar, ADC, development, Ludhiana. Police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal said the district administration plans to vaccinate each and every eligible person by June 15. Enquiries pouring in, say private hospitals Private hospitals in the city have already started receiving enquires from residents eager to get themselves vaccinated. Dr Anurag Chaudhary, head of the department of community medicine at Dayanand Medical College and Hospital, said most of the queries are coming from senior citizens who are wary of visiting crowded vaccination centres. “We are expecting to receive a fresh lot of vaccine on May 28. Once the vaccine is available, requisite arrangements will be made to vaccinate the maximum number of people without causing crowding at centers. Residents can book their slots through CoWin app. We will soon share the helpline numbers through which residents can seek help in booking the slots,” said Dr Chaudhary. Dr Baldeep Singh, MD of Deep Hospital in Model Town, said “We are encouraging group vaccination. We have received queries about the vaccines from industry and other establishments. Due to lockdown, commuting is a major challenge. Further, crowding at hospitals is another problem as it comes with a risk of infection. So we are encouraging group vaccinations wherein a doctor and a staff nurse will visit a location and vaccinate people there.” Munish Dogra, a hosiery owner, welcomed the development. “The price of vaccines could be debated upon, but there are two ways to look at it. The rate of the vaccine could be looked at from different perspectives. One can find the vaccine expensive. But if one considers spending ₹2,000 on two jabs of vaccine that could save the life, then it is cheap.” Surinder Kaur, 63, a resident of Field Gunj said the resumption of vaccination drives at private hospitals would be a huge respite for many elderly like her. “This is a great move. I was worried about the rush at government sites. “ Ludhiana Inc books vaccine worth ₹1 crore Deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma said city-based industrialists have booked Covid vaccine worth over ₹1 crore from Serum Institute of India to vaccinate their employees and family members. He said the doses would reach the city soon after which special camps will be organised at premises of the respective units. High drama over special treatment to VIPHigh drama was witnessed at a vaccination site located in a school at BRS Nagar this afternoon when people queuing up for the vaccine caught the healthcare staff jabbing a VIP inside his car parked outside the vaccination centre. A woman standing in the queue reportedly grabbed a healthcare staffer by the arm and snatched the injections kept in her pocket. Soon others surrounded the health department employee and began protesting. As the situation started turning ugly, the health department employee first ran back to the vaccination centre but found the door bolted then ran towards her car and fled the scene. HTC||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/md-oswal-hospital-resumes-vaccination-5-more-to-follow-suit-from-may-28-101621707299104.html
22-05-2021||Other||NGT rap: Ludhiana to submit ₹5 lakh to PPCB for legacy waste||The monitoring committee of the National Green Tribunal directed the municipal corporation (MC) to submit ₹5 lakh to the Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) for failure to dispose of its legacy waste. The amount will be encashed after six months if the civic body fails to start disposing of the legacy waste.The failure of the MC in dealing with over 16 lakh tonnes of accumulated garbage at the main dumpsite situated at Tajpur Road is taking a toll on the residents here. Citing groundwater contamination in the 2km area surrounding the landfill site, the monitoring committee also ordered a ban on further construction of colonies there.A virtual meeting of the monitoring committee headed by chairman Justice (retd) Jasbir Singh was held on Friday.While the civic body was directed to provide alternate sources of potable water to the residents already residing in these areas, the PPCB was directed to seek environmental compensation from MC for its failure to deal with the legacy waste. Further, the civic body was directed to commence the operations of the construction and demolition waste plant in the city within three months, failing which, it’ll have to pay a penalty of ₹2 lakh.PPCB senior environmental engineer Sandeep Bahl said that the PPCB had collected groundwater samples in the past and had found that the water in the area was contaminated. Environmental compensation will be sought from MC as directed by the monitoring committee, he added. Meanwhile, MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal said that the civic body has already initiated the process to deal with legacy waste and 5 lakh tonnes of garbage will be disposed of in the first phase of the project which is being taken up under the Smart City Mission.“We are working on establishing the construction and demolition waste plant and achieving the target of 100% waste segregation in the city. We will take required steps to stop further construction of colonies in the area and provide potable water to the residents as ordered by the monitoring committee,” said Sabharwal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ngt-rap-ludhiana-to-submit-rs-5-lakh-to-ppcb-for-legacy-waste-101621706939505.html
22-05-2021||Mumbai||Look after pilots who have lost lives due to Covid: Air India pilots||After Air India pilots recently lost three senior pilots to Covid-19, the Indian Pilots Guild, a Boeing pilot’s union of Air India wrote to their chairman requesting to immediately provide a befitting compensation to their colleagues who have died due to infection. They also requested to immediately attend to and mend the gap in the company’s HR policy so that their family will be looked after by the airline, in case the worst happens to one of them.Late Capt. Prasad had operated San Francisco-Bangalore, landed on April 15, 2021, and travelled as staff on duty to Mumbai. He was shifted to a Mumbai-based hospital after he tested positive, but gradually his condition worsened and succumbed to the virus on May 9.Stating a staff notice dated July 17, 2020, that pays ₹10 lakhs to a pilot who dies of Covid-19, the pilots pointed out that this is the only measure Air India takes to compensate the next of kin of an active employee who lost life due to Covid-19, in the line of duty.“Whilst the intent of the company may be good, let us not overlook the reality of the situation. Nationwide, PSU’s (public sector undertakings) have policies in place for such tragedies. Ex-gratia payment and compassionate employment being the most common. Why is Air India the only PSU that is relatively complacent towards compensation in the case of the death of an employee? We were surprised to learn that a well-respected Indian private airline runs a benevolent scheme with its employees where it covers a deceased pilot to the sum of ₹5 crores in case of death. Why can’t the flag carrier create and provide something similar?,” said an IPG pilot.“The Central government has an active scheme called Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan package insurance scheme for health workers fighting Covid-19. Why shouldn’t something similar be offered to a serving PSU employee,” he added.The unions asked the airline about the steps being taken by Air India to ensure the aircrew/employees will be taken care of in case Covid-19 is contracted. They also questioned, how will the next kin be looked after in the unfortunate event of the demise of an employee.Three senior Air India commanders have lost their lives to Covid in a span of five days in this month - Capt. Amitesh Prasad, Capt. Sandeep Rana and Capt. GPS Gill. “The gravity of the situation will amass when one is to note that a total of three active pilots in Air India lost their lives to Covid-19 under similar circumstances within five days, between the 9th and the 14th of April, 2021..we request you to immediately attend to and mend this dismaying gap in the company’s HR policy so that we may know that our loved ones will be looked after by our company should the worst happen to one of us,” the letter concluded.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/look-after-pilots-who-have-lost-lives-due-to-covid-air-india-pilots-101621706197736.html
22-05-2021||Chandigarh||Consumer rights organisation ask Haryana to encourage telemedicine||Consumer rights organisation, Consumer’s Voice, has asked the Haryana government to encourage telemedicine to save lives of those suffering from non-communicable diseases during Covid-19 pandemic. In a statement, chief operating officer of Consumer’s Voice, Ashim Sanyal said the Haryana government should encourage telemedicine to save lives of patients suffering from non-communicable diseases. He said that according to recent figures published by the Union health ministry, e-Sanjeevani, the government telemedicine platform, has clocked more than 50 lakh consultations in the past year. Every day, at least 40,000 Indians are dialling in from across country to use this contactless and risk-free health facility. With 63% deaths annually being due to non-communicable diseases, the pandemic has shown how telemedicine can be a long-term game-changer in managing burden of chronic non-communicable diseases, particularly to the rural underserved population.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/consumer-rights-organisation-ask-haryana-to-encourage-telemedicine-101621706219941.html
22-05-2021||Mumbai||195 children lost one parent to Covid, 108 lost both: Maharashtra task forces||At least 195 children in Maharashtra have lost their parents due to Covid-19, so far. Of them, 108 have lost both their parents, the task forces appointed by the state government informed.After the Supreme Court (SC) directives taking cognisance of the reports in the social media that children orphaned after losing their parents due to the virus were being illegally adopted, the state government’s woman and child welfare department (WCD) formed task forces in every (36) district to identify such children two weeks ago.This was to ensure that the orphaned children are in safe custody and are given their financial and property right. The step also assures that the children are safeguarded from illegal custody and trafficking.The task forces have found at least 195 such children in the state have lost their parents, of them, 108 have been orphaned after losing both their parents. 42 children have been brought to the child care institutes (CCIs) run by the state government.According to the figures collated by the WCD, Mumbai had no such children, while Nandurbar had the highest 93 children, of which 66 have lost both their parents. Hingoli, Jalna and Gondia have 18, 16 and 12 children who have lost one of their parents. Thane has 11 children who have lost both their parents due to the Covid-19.WCD minister Yashomati Thakur said that the number of affected children is expected to be 400 in the state. “We have galvanised the machinery to take care of all these children with the help of the child care institutes we have at district levels. First, we try to give the children family parenting with the help of Bal Sangopan and foster parenting schemes. If that is not possible then these children are brought to the child care institutes. We have increased the age limit of their stay in these institutions to 23 years from 18 years so that they are protected until they stand on their feet. We are guardians of these children and will continue to take their care,” Thakur said.The district administrations have started visiting their houses to take review and extend the help required by the children.“As the basic principle of the Juvenile Justice Act (JJ Act), we prefer the custody to be retained by the extended family of the children who lost both their parents. Family care is important for their upbringing. Such children in custody with relatives like uncle or grandparents are given financial assistance of ₹1,125 per month under our Bal Sangopan scheme. In case such custody in the extended family is not possible, the children are brought to CCIs by following due process,” said an official from the department.In a government resolution issued on May 11, the state government has made it mandatory for the hospitals to note the information from the Covid-19 patients about their minor children about their custody during the treatment. The districts level task forces, headed by district collectors, have been assigned with the task to keep a tab of the custody of the children of the parents admitted for treatment or in case of their deaths. The task force has also been directed to take steps to avoid any illegal adoption and extending legal aid to such children to protect their rights. The GR also has mandated counselling wherever required.Manisha Birasis, assistant commissioner, woman and child development department, said that the district level task forces will take care of the legal rights of the children. “The GR is self-explanatory on various fronts. It also has stated how to safeguard the rights of the children in a property once they attain a majority of their age. The district authorities will ensure that their property rights are not entangled in family disputes,” she said.The WCD has also directed the district authorities to take action against the people involved in the illegal adoption of such children. Cases have been filed in such attempts under various sections of the JJ Act and Indian Penal Code.Besides this, the department has also directed the district administrations to extend the counselling to women who have lost their spouse due to Covid-19. “Such women can be given aid through 130 counselling centres and 31 shelter homes for women in the state,” said the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/195-children-lost-one-parent-to-covid-108-lost-both-maharashtra-task-forces-101621705274619.html
22-05-2021||Mumbai||Two accountants of Mumbai hospitals siphon off ₹5.23 crore, one held||The Bhoiwada police have arrested an accountant of Seth GS Medical College and KEM Hospital for allegedly siphoning off nearly ₹5.23 crore from the hospital trust’s bank account. The accused used bogus signatures of the hospital’s deans and transferred money in 25 other bank accounts. According to police, the accused have been siphoning off money for the past 11 years and is believed to have invested the amount in lands in rural areas.Ex-assistant accountant Rajan Rawool has been arrested on Thursday and presently in police custody, while the main accused ex-accountant Shripad Desai is still at large. “We shall soon arrest him in the case,” said Vijay Patil, deputy commissioner of police, zone 4.The matter came to the light after a secretary in the Trust Sandhya Kamath raised suspicion over a cheque. She then got a preliminary forensic audit done. After discovering huge irregularities, she informed the concerned officials, following which, Desai and Rawool were sacked from the service last year. But as the two assured that they would return the money, an immediate police complaint was not lodged. But after waiting for five months KEM’S Dean Dr Hemant Deshmukh finally lodged an FIR with the police recently. Desai and Rawool have been employed with Diamond Jubilee Society Trust, which was established by Seth GS Medical College and KEM Hospital to provide medical relief and undertake development, research programmes in health services, medicine, applied science and upgrading healthcare facilities to various sectors of the society. The trust receives government funds for medical researches, donations from foreign countries. These funds are further used for research purposes and charity for helping poor medical students.“Since 2009, the two have been forging signatures of the KEM Hospital’s deans and indulging in misappropriation of funds. So far probe has revealed that they forged signatures of at least two deans including Dr Avinash Supe,” said inspector Sushil Gaikwad of Bhoiwada police station.They transferred money to 25 bank accounts belonging to various people known to them. Details of these bank accounts are being obtained, Gaikwad said.Desai and Rawool have been booked on the charges of cheating forgery, criminal breach of trust by an employee. Desai has been summoned for questioning, the police said. “We would be investigating how they managed to hide such huge irregularities and no one noticed it. We will find out how they used to dodge the regular auditing,” Gaikwad said.Rawool has been sent to police custody up to May 27 by a local court on Friday, Gaikwad added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/two-accountants-of-mumbai-hospitals-siphon-off-5-23-crore-one-held-101621705498456.html
22-05-2021||Mumbai||195 children lost at least one parent to Covid-19: Maharashtra task forces||At least 195 children in Maharashtra have lost their parents due to Covid-19, so far. Of them, 108 have lost both their parents, the task forces appointed by the state government informed.After the Supreme Court (SC) directives taking cognisance of the reports in the social media that children orphaned after losing their parents due to the virus were being illegally adopted, the state government’s woman and child welfare department (WCD) formed task forces in every (36) district to identify such children two weeks ago.This was to ensure that the orphaned children are in safe custody and are given their financial and property right. The step also assures that the children are safeguarded from illegal custody and trafficking. The task forces have found at least 195 such children in the state have lost their parents, of them, 108 have been orphaned after losing both their parents. 42 children have been brought to the child care institutes (CCIs) run by the state government.According to the figures collated by the WCD, Mumbai had no such children, while Nandurbar had the highest 93 children, of which 66 have lost both their parents. Hingoli, Jalna and Gondia have 18, 16 and 12 children who have lost one of their parents. Thane has 11 children who have lost both their parents due to the Covid-19.WCD minister Yashomati Thakur said that the number of affected children is expected to be 400 in the state. “We have galvanised the machinery to take care of all these children with the help of the child care institutes we have at district levels. First, we try to give the children family parenting with the help of Bal Sangopan and foster parenting schemes. If that is not possible then these children are brought to the child care institutes. We have increased the age limit of their stay in these institutions to 23 years from 18 years so that they are protected until they stand on their feet. We are guardians of these children and will continue to take their care,” Thakur said.The district administrations have started visiting their houses to take review and extend the help required by the children.“As the basic principle of the Juvenile Justice Act (JJ Act), we prefer the custody to be retained by the extended family of the children who lost both their parents. Family care is important for their upbringing. Such children in custody with relatives like uncle or grandparents are given financial assistance of ₹1,125 per month under our Bal Sangopan scheme. In case such custody in the extended family is not possible, the children are brought to CCIs by following due process,” said an official from the department.In a government resolution issued on May 11, the state government has made it mandatory for the hospitals to note the information from the Covid-19 patients about their minor children about their custody during the treatment. The districts level task forces, headed by district collectors, have been assigned with the task to keep a tab of the custody of the children of the parents admitted for treatment or in case of their deaths. The task force has also been directed to take steps to avoid any illegal adoption and extending legal aid to such children to protect their rights. The GR also has mandated counselling wherever required.Manisha Birasis, assistant commissioner, woman and child development department, said that the district level task forces will take care of the legal rights of the children. “The GR is self-explanatory on various fronts. It also has stated how to safeguard the rights of the children in a property once they attain a majority of their age. The district authorities will ensure that their property rights are not entangled in family disputes,” she said.The WCD has also directed the district authorities to take action against the people involved in the illegal adoption of such children. Cases have been filed in such attempts under various sections of the JJ Act and Indian Penal Code.Besides this, the department has also directed the district administrations to extend the counselling to women who have lost their spouse due to Covid-19. “Such women can be given aid through 130 counselling centres and 31 shelter homes for women in the state,” said the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/195-children-lost-at-least-one-of-their-parents-to-virus-maharashyra-task-forces-101621705258506.html
22-05-2021||Mumbai||IIP Dehradun sets up compact oxygen plant at Pune for treating Covid-19 patients||As several parts of the country struggle with a shortage of oxygen for treating Covid-19 patients, CSIR-Indian Institute of Petroleum (IIP), Dehradun, has set up a compact medical oxygen plant in Pune that can be configured for monitoring in real-time.The plant, an upgraded version of the traditional pressure swing adsorption (PSA) technology, was started on Friday at the Aundh Chest Hospital, Pune. By adding a vacuum element to the PSA technology, scientists at IIP, a constituent laboratory of the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR), an autonomous body under the Government of India, have been able to make the plant more compact, more efficient and operationally economical. “The PVSA innovation is intended to support the national crisis response to the pandemic. A compact oxygen plant will require less energy and less space. Such a smaller machine is ideal for hospitals where space is a constraint,” said Anjan Ray, director of CSIR-IIP, who led a team of nearly a dozen people involved in various aspects of the project. The oxygen purity level of this system was found to be 96%, as against the medical requirement of 90-96%.The unit was fabricated by CSIR-IIP’s licensee and engineering partner, Gaskon Engineers, in New Delhi. Bharat Forge Ltd, a Pune-based engineering company, helped integrate the new plant with the hospital’s ongoing oxygen supply network. The CSIR team from National Chemical Laboratory, Pune, provided on-ground expertise to ensure oxygen purity, flow rate and pressure were delivered to patient requirements.Nitin Bilolikar, civil surgeon of Pune and joint head of the health department of Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) confirmed that the oxygen plant has been set up at Aundh Chest Hospital and attached to the supply for patients.In a regular PSA system, the air is sucked in, pressurised and passed over adsorbents that can separate nitrogen and other component gases. The purified oxygen is then supplied to oxygen tanks and cylinders. However, the adsorbents or molecular sieves which trap the nitrogen, have to release this nitrogen (“desorb”) towards the end of each cycle so that fresh air can be taken in again for separation. This is a time-consuming process.“Vacuum is one of the best ways of rapid desorption, enabling the bed of sieves to be emptied of the adsorbed nitrogen. Compared to PSA systems that simply depressurise for nitrogen release, vacuum makes the system more efficient. The advantage is at a very molecular level,” said Ray.For every 100 molecules of oxygen present in the air taken in by a traditional PSA system, around 15 molecules of pure oxygen is generated. The PVSA, on the other hand, can deliver 30-35 oxygen molecules per 100, Ray explained.“Professor Ray had sent a plant to Pune and our job was to enhance the performance of the plant for improved reliability of oxygen supply and safe connectivity to patients,” said Moonish Ghuge, vice president, Kalyani Centre for Technology and Innovation, the research and development wing of Bharat Forge. Ghuge and his team ran the plant in their lab for 72 hours and simulated situations to ensure the supply was consistent and a failure would not affect patients. Another feature of the system is that it can be monitored remotely. “The system works on the principle of Internet of Things. The idea is to get the system to talk to us and give us real-time analysis. This will help us in predictive maintenance and for further design improvements over time,” said Ray, adding that a patent has been filed for the system.The PVSA system is supported with the principles of supervisory control and data acquisition (SCADA), which is a control system architecture comprising computers, networked data communications and graphical user interfaces (GUI) for high-level process supervisory management.“While the first unit at Aundh was set up as a field demonstration unit and first run for several months on the CSIR-IIP campus at Dehradun, we plan to scale it up and deploy larger sizes of 500 LPM and more over the next few months. The long-term goal is to build an intelligent oxygen delivery and management network,” said Ray.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/iip-dehradun-sets-up-compact-oxygen-plant-at-pune-for-treating-covid-19-patients-101621705139655.html
22-05-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai records 1,283 Covid cases, 52 deaths||Mumbai on Saturday recorded 1,283 cases and 52 deaths, taking the tally to 695,483 and the toll to 14,516. Mumbai presently has 28,232 active Covid-19 cases. The case fatality rate (CFR) on Friday was 4%, higher than on most days this month. Mumbai’s overall CFR is 2%. On Friday, Mumbai conducted 29,264 tests, with a positivity rate of 4.3%. Overall, Mumbai has conducted a total of 6,048,686, with a positivity rate of 11.4%. within the past week, Mumbai’s positivity rate has dropped below 5%, in contrast to April when it was as high as 20%. Positivity rate is the number of positive cases as a per cent of total Covid-19 tests done. Four wards in Mumbai has more than 2,000 active Covid cases, as per data from Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), corresponding to areas of Andheri East, Andheri West, Borivli, and Kandivli. Eleven wards have more than 1,000 active cases. The least number of active cases are in the B ward (167) corresponding to areas of Mohammad Ali Road and Pydhonie, followed by the C ward (197), corresponding to areas of Marine lines, in south Mumbai. Fifteen wards have a growth rate over Mumbai’s average growth rate of 0.22% with wards corresponding to Colaba and Byculla area showing the highest growth rate, and wards corresponding to Mulund and Marine Lines showing the lowest growth rate. On Saturday, 1,827 positive patients recovered or were discharged from hospitals post-recovery. Mumbai now has a recovery rate of 93% that had dipped to below 85% in April, when the city was reporting around 8,000 new cases per day. The doubling rate in Mumbai has now gone up to 326 days. Doubling rate is the number of days taken for present Covid-19 cases to double. Meanwhile, Mumbai has 62 containment zones which are slums or chawls, and 246 sealed buildings at present. Of the 22,090 Covid beds in hospitals across Mumbai, 13,729 are vacant. A total of 613 ICU beds are vacant, and 208 ventilator beds are vacant, as of Saturday morning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-records-1-283-covid-cases-52-deaths-101621705078453.html
22-05-2021||Ranchi||Petition moved in J’khand HC for CBI probe into woman cop’s death||Main opposition BJP’s legislature party leader Babulal Marandi on Saturday demanded that the state government immediately recommend CBI probe in the death case of Sahibganj police officer Rupa Tirkey, claiming that people do not have faith in the probe conducted by local police that was working allegedly under influence of Pankaj Mishra, the assembly representative of chief minister Hemant Soren. The former chief minister said Tirkey’s family members and the tribal society in general have been repeatedly demanding a CBI probe in the matter, as “police officials in Sahibganj were acting as Mishra’s henchmen”. “It’s baffling as to why the state government is not recommending a CBI probe in the death case despite repeated demands by the family and tribal society. The family and people in general do not have trust in police investigation, as the police department is behaving like Mishra’s henchmen. Soon after her death, Tirkey’s mother filed a complaint and named three persons, including Mishra. However, the police instead filed a case against unknown persons and did not even question Mishra,” said Marandi, adding that the CM should immediately recommend a probe by the central agency in the matter. Addressing media persons at the party office, few audio clips associated with Mishra were also played by the BJP leader to establish the power that the CM’s assembly representative wields in Sahibganj district. The CM’s assembly Barhait falls in Sahibganj district. The BJP leader said they will continue to raise their demand, and if required, they will also approach court for the purpose. Tirkey, in her first posting as Mahila police station in-charge, was found hanging in mysterious circumstances at her official residence on May 3. Following this, her family lodged a complaint with police and named three persons--two of Tirkey’s female colleagues, and Mishra. Mishra, however, has maintained that he played no role in the case and was open to probe.Later, police investigation established the case as that of suicide, and arrested a male sub-inspector, who was allegedly in a romantic relationship with Tirkey, in the matter. Besides the BJP, several other leaders, including those from the ruling party, have demanded CBI probe in the case. Congress legislator Bandhu Tirkey has been a vocal proponent of the same. He also met CM Soren earlier this week and reiterated his demand. Reacting to Marandi’s demand, JMM general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharya described it as “hollow”. “We have always maintained that justice will be ensured by the government in the case, irrespective of whosoever is guilty. An SIT is already probing the case. After that if people are not satisfied, then we will give it to whichever agency for which demand is made.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/petition-moved-in-j-khand-hc-for-cbi-probe-into-woman-cop-s-death-101621703458344.html
22-05-2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand: Nearly 50% drop in Covid cases, deaths last week||Jharkhand, for the first time after a hiatus of one-and-a-half months, felt some relief in the third week (May 15-21) of this month as weekly detection of Covid-19 cases and deaths registered a significant decline by around 50% in comparison to the previous week. While 33,962 cases were reported in the second week of this month between May 8-14, the third week registered a decline by nearly 50% with the discovery of 17,011 cases. The number of deaths too declined by 47%, as 394 fatalities were reported in between May 15-21 in comparison to 751 during May 8-14.Besides, the positivity rate (number of positive cases per 100 samples tested) also dropped to 4.70% in the third week against 8.51% in the second week. This indicates slowing down of the spread of the infection.According to health experts, the growth of Covid-19 cases and number deaths will decline further, as the peak of the second wave has already passed in the state . “This is now the end of the second wave of the pandemic. The next month is going to be a low key affair. But, we should not be relaxed, as the next couple of months (June-July) will provide a cushion for robust preparation for the third wave, if it comes. Besides, it is high time to focus and escalate vaccination coverage,” said Dr Dewesh Kumar, assistant professor of department of preventive and social medicine, RIMS.The state, which was hit hard by the second wave, was still discovering over 2,000 cases on a daily basis, much more that what it reported daily during the peak of the first wave between mid-August and mid-September last year.The impact of the second wave was so intense that all Covid-19 parameters of the state faired poorer than the national average.However, these parameters have now improved in last two weeks. According to the health department’s bulletin on May 21, the seven-day growth of the disease was 0.62% in the state against the national average of 0.76%. The seven-day disease’s doubling period in Jharkhand stood at 112.09 days against the national average of 91.28 and recovery rate was 91.05% against the national average of 87.20%.However, the state’s mortality rate of 1.45% was still higher than the national average of 1.10%.Jharkhand till May 21 reported a total of 327,035 cases, including 297,776 recoveries, 24,499 active cases and 4,760 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/jharkhandnearly-50-drop-in-covid-cases-deaths-last-week-101621703398285.html
22-05-2021||Patna||Bihar IMA forms panel to probe doctors’ death; toll reaches 96||Stung by the death of over 96 doctors in Bihar in the current wave of Covid-19, the Indian Medical Association (IMA) Bihar Branch has constituted an eight-member committee under the chairmanship of Dr Sahjanand Prasad Singh, IMA India (president-elect) to investigate reasons behind such a large number of casualty of doctors in the state.The IMA president said that more than 329 doctors have succumbed so far during the second Covid-19 wave and 96 out of these casualties have been reported from Bihar, which now has the highest number of doctor deaths during the second wave. “During the first wave of Covid-19 last year, 30 doctors had lost their lives in Bihar,” said Dr Singh.According to the news agency ANI’s report, the IMA said that over 400 doctors across the country have succumbed to the Covid-19 infection during the second wave of the pandemic.On May 18, the IMA had said 269 doctors had lost their lives during the Covid-19 second wave over the past two months. During the first wave in 2020, India had lost 748 doctors. With the updated toll shared by the IMA today, India has now lost over 1,000 doctors due to Covid-19.Of the 96 deaths reported in Bihar, 38 had taken place in Patna alone with 14 deaths reported from Muzaffarpur, as per a list released by the IMA, Bihar chapter. Five deaths have been reported in Bhagalpur and three each at Gaya and Siwan. “Doctors in Bihar have been working continuously. The committee has been formed to find out the reasons for death as doctors even in non-Covid hospitals and clinics have been treating patients. In many cases proper distancing with patients could not be maintained,” said Dr Singh, IMA national president (elect). The IMA president blamed the lack of proper care and facilities for doctors for such a high number of casualties. “In all government or private hospitals, no beds have been reserved for doctors’ treatment. Doctors died for want of beds and ventilators,” alleged Dr Singh. “At least two beds could have been reserved for our fraternity members and the mortality would have been much less. After all, we are also working for the public and their welfare,” he added.Dr Singh was also critical of oxygen supply and said that the state capital has more than 200 hospitals (both government and private) but only 90 got oxygen supply during the crisis. “More than 100 did not get supply but still kept treating patients by managing oxygen in the name of humanity,” he said. The IMA has demanded that doctors should be properly treated even in private hospitals and beds should be earmarked for them. “We demand that those doctors who died due to Covid should be given ₹50 lakh compensation amount by the respective state governments,” Dr Singh demanded and informed that IMA has decided to give ₹10 lakh each from its side to families of poor doctors. “In Bihar, we are going to give ₹10 lakh to the family of three poor doctors and this will be done in other states as well,” Dr Singh said||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-ima-forms-panel-to-probe-doctors-death-toll-reaches-96-101621703278455.html
22-05-2021||Patna||Senari accused acquittal: State, victims may move SC||A day after Patna High Court acquitted all the 13 accused in the 1999 Senari massacre case, a sense of shock and disbelief has gripped the Senari village and reopened the wounds of the few who survived the bloodbath.The double bench of Patna High Court on Friday acquitted the accused for “want of sufficient evidence regarding their identity” in the massacre of Bihar’s Senari village where 34 upper caste men were killed. The decision surprised the state government as well. Advocate General Lalit Kishor told media persons that the state government may challenge the verdict in the Supreme Court. The law department has also sought an advisory from Kishor.The victims’ families are expected to file an appeal against the verdict after the certified order is out later this week. An angry Arun Sharma asked, “Then who killed 34 and injured five men in 1999?” Senari since then has come out of the darkness with the village having motorable roads, electricity and other government facilities. Sources said that even though the villagers are shocked by the court’s verdict, the cordial atmosphere prevails. “The anger is mostly against court, police and government in general,” said Babu Sharma.However, it has opened the wounds once again. Recounting the horror, 47-year-old Arjun Sharma who was 25-year-old at that time said, “I was standing at the door of my house along with brothers and cousins Suresh, Sachidanand, Naresh, Sheo Kumar, Vimlesh and Kavindra. The extremists, who were in police uniform, arrived there and they caught hold of Kavindra and Vimlesh and took them towards Thakurbadi. They killed them by cutting their throats.” “The entire village is shocked with the verdict. The villagers are not ready to accept that the accused have been let off,” said villager Ajay Sharma, 54, who also lost his brother. He blamed the police and the state government for the acquittals. “The police did not file a strong charge sheet with solid evidence against them,” he alleged. Ajay Kumar, 59, whose younger brother Ranjan and cousins were killed in the massacre on March 18, 1999, said if the court acquitted all the accused, who killed his family and others in the village. “The extremists took them to Thakurbari, tied their legs and hands. The miscreants first cut the throat of the victims and thereafter they cut the stomach of those who were found alive,” he said recalling the gory incident. The verdict has also shocked Sharda Devi, 62, who lost his 21-year-old son Rakesh in the incident. “It is being said that the accused persons could not be identified. I want to ask how could an old lady, who was trying to save her life, identify the accused 20 years later?” she asked.Mohan Sharma, 45, was picked by the Maoist Communist Centre (MCC) like other men of the locality and lined up near Thakurbari under the Karpi police station area. “Two people were killed before me. I was hit by a sharp-edged weapon. I fell and pretended to be dead. I wrapped under the cover of dead bodies, from where I escaped when gunmen fled away,” he recalled. Social activist Bablu Sharma told HT the state government provided compensation and government job to the next kin of the deceased. “Many of the family have shifted to other places and have built houses. There is no hatred in the village now. Most of the families are now residing in Khatangi, Manjhiyawan and Odibigha villages,” he said.Former mukhiya of Karpi village, Kamlesh Sharma informed that eight of the victims is a close relative of the then High Court’s registrar Padmnarayan Singh, who died due to heart attack after he saw bodies. His son Ramakant Singh is the senior lawyer of Patna High Court, but he could not take action.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/senari-accused-acquittal-state-victims-may-move-sc-101621703218333.html
22-05-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana records 11,327 Covid recoveries||Haryana recorded 5,021 new Covid-19 cases, 11,327 recoveries and 98 deaths on Saturday.A medical bulletin said the positivity rate has come down to 9.06% from 9.83% of Friday and the cumulative positivity rate was constant at 8.53%. The recovery rate has also further improved to 92.45%.The number of active cases came down to 51,470. Gurugram led the tally with 7,000 active cases followed by Hisar (5,273), Sirsa (3,360), Faridabad (3,212), Karnal (2,949), Mahendergarh (2,767), Panipat (2,460) and Bhiwani (2,239).Among the deaths, nine each were reported from Gurugram and Hisar, seven each from Ambala and Karnal, six each from Faridabad, Panipat and Rewari, five from Jhajjar, four each from Sonepat, Rohtak, Kaithal, Bhiwani and Jind, three each from Mahendergarh, Panchkula, Fatehabad, Kurukshetra, two each from Nuh, Charkhi Dadri, Palwal and Yamunanagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-records-11-327-covid-recoveries-101621702446592.html
22-05-2021||Other||Haryana faces acute shortage of drugs to treat black fungus patients||As cases of mucormycosis or black fungus rise across state, Post-Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS), Rohtak and 11 other medical colleges in Haryana are facing acute shortage of Amphotericin-B, the drug used to treat the infection.While some private hospitals, where black fungus patients are undergoing treatment, are expressing difficulty in procuring the drugs, family members of patients say they are running from pillar to post looking for the drug.Rakesh Sihag, of Hisar, said one of his relatives has contracted the infection and is undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Rohtak.“The expert committee formed by director general health services had approved seven vials of Amphotericin-B for him on May 18, but he is yet to get the drug. We are trying to procure the drug but to no avail. Hospital authorities said they don’t have the drug and are waiting to get it from the government. The drug is not available anywhere in the market,” he added.Rakesh Beniwal, of Sirsa said doctors asked them to bring 10 vials of the drug for treatment of his father-in-law.“Doctors said we need six injections per day and the treatment lasts four to six weeks. They expressed inability to provide even a single vial of the medicine. How do we procure it if neither the government nor the markets have it?” he said.Slamming the BJP-JJP government, INLD general secretary Abhay Chautala and Congress’s Tosham MLA Kiran Choudhry said the government had notified black fungus as a disease but it does not have the injections required to treat the patients.“The government has notified 12 medical colleges to treat black fungus patients and all of them are facing acute shortage of the drug. If hospitals don’t have the medicine, how will they treat the patients? Why has the state government not floated tenders to get Amphotericin-B earlier,” Choudhry said.State nodal officer for Covid-19, Dr Dhruva Chaudhary said there is acute shortage of the injections across country.“The Centre had allocated only 100 vials of the drug to Haryana and PGIMS had received 200 vials. On an average, a patient needs seven injections of the drug a day and the treatment continues for at least 30 days. So, one can easily imagine the shortage. The state had written to the Centre to allocate more vials of the drug,” he added.PGIMS medical superintendent Dr Pushpa Dahiya said 63 patients of black fungus are admitted at the institution and they don’t have enough drug vials to treat them.“We have written to the state seeking 6,000 vials to treat the patients and are yet to receive them. Our institute was allocated four districts but cases are coming in from across state,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/haryana-faces-acute-shortage-of-drugs-to-treat-black-fungus-patients-101621702320437.html
22-05-2021||Other||Wrestler Sagar Dhankar’s family seeks Sushil Kumar’s arrest||The family of former junior national champion wrestler Sagar Dhankar, who died on May 5 after an alleged brawl with Olympic medallist Sushil Kumar a day earlier at the Chhatrasal stadium in Delhi, sought Kumar’s arrest on Saturday. Sagar hailed from Sonepat.There is a look-out circular issued by the Delhi Police against Sushil Kumar, who is posted as an officer on special duty (OSD) at Chhatrasal Stadium in Delhi, and police are continuously making raids in Haryana and Punjab to arrest him.Sagar’s father Ashok Dhankar and his maternal uncle Anand alleged that they got life threat from the Olympic medallist and demanded his immediate arrest.“We got information that the Delhi Police has traced Sushil’s location somewhere in Punjab and police are helping him during his stay. He has connections with gangsters and we are getting threats from him. We want his immediate arrest,” they added.Sagar’s father Ashok said his son had been at Chhatrasal for nearly eight years.“I handed over Sagar to Mahabali Satpal, who runs Chhatrasal Akhada when he was just 15. He considered Sushil Kumar his guru. Both Satpal and Sushil promised us to make my son a good wrestler. My son had won many medals before he was killed after a brawl with Sushil Kumar and his associates,” he said.“We got to know after Sagar’s death that he was staying in a flat outside the stadium. He was planning to quit the stadium and shift to Narela, where a former coach was giving training. Sushil and his associates abducted Sagar from his house in Model Town to teach him a lesson for bad-mouthing him in front of other wrestlers,” he added.Sagar died on May 5, while two of his friends Sonu and Amit Kumar got injured after they were allegedly assaulted by Sushil Kumar and other wrestlers on the night of May 4, on the stadium premises in Delhi.The Delhi Police had announced a reward of ₹1 lakh for information leading to Sushil Kumar’s arrest. A reward of ₹50,000 has also been announced for arrest of his associate Ajay Kumar, who has been absconding in the case, police had said.Anand alleged that his nephew had been forced to shift from the flat which was in the name of Sushil Kumar’s wife to another flat after he failed to pay rent.“Sagar’s wrestler friends told us that Sushil was mounting pressure on him to join gangsters, who were illegally encroaching upon the plots but he denied. Since then, their rift had escalated,” he added.Earlier, a Delhi court had refused to grant anticipatory bail to Sushil Kumar, stating that he is prima facie the main conspirator and allegations against him are serious in nature.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/wrestler-sagar-dhankar-s-family-seeks-sushil-kumar-s-arrest-101621702080357.html
22-05-2021||Other||Farmers to leave for Delhi to observe May 26 as Black Day||Following the call of the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), hundreds of farmers from across Haryana will begin their movement from May 23 to join the ongoing agitation against Centre’s three farm laws.As per farm leaders from Haryana, the SKM, an umbrella body of over 40 farm unions, has decided to hold protests on May 26. They claimed that central trade unions have extended support for the protest.As harvesting of wheat is over and transplantation of paddy is to start from June 15, farm unions of Haryana have urged their district and block-level members to reach out to villages to ensure that huge gathering of farmers from Haryana reach Delhi borders on May 26.Farmers will observe May 26 as Black Day to mark six months of their agitation and farmers supporting the agitation will also hoist black flags on their houses and vehicles on that day to register their protest.“We have already held meetings in this regard and thousands of farmers from Panipat will leave for Delhi on Sunday,” said Sudhir Jhakar, Panipar district president of BKU (Charuni).Karnal BKU leader Jagdip Singh Aulakh said on call of BKU leaders, thousands of farmers will gather at Karnal’s Bastara toll plaza on May 23 and will leave for Delhi in tractor trolleys, cars and bikes.He said that farmers will give new strength to the ongoing agitation as the government did not listen to their demands after six months of the agitation.As farmers have given a call for a huge gathering at Bastara toll plaza amid the Covid-19 lockdown, Karnal superintendent of police Ganga Ram Punia said they have made elaborate security arrangements to deal with any law and order situation and plan to divert traffic from NH-44 has also been prepared.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/farmers-to-leave-for-delhi-to-observe-may-26-as-black-day-101621702019160.html
22-05-2021||Lucknow||Two cops suspended for killing vegetable vendor in UP's Unnao||Two policemen were suspended after a vegetable vendor, who was "beaten for violating COVID-19 restrictions" on Friday and brought to a police station in Unnao, died.Faisal's family alleged that the seventeen-year-old boy was beaten by police personnel after they saw him selling vegetables on a cart in the mandi."He went to the mandi. The police thrashed him and took him to the station, where he was found dead. The police then left him at the hospital," Faisal's brother alleged.The incident took place in Bangarmau Kotwali area of Unnao district .The police have filed an FIR against the accused and Superintendent of Police Anand Kulkarni assured proper investigation in the matter.On SP's instructions, Vijay Chowdhury, police constable from Bangarmau Kotwali, and another constable Seemawat, who were on patrolling duty that day were suspended, while Satyaprakash, who was working as home guard, dismissed.Faisal's uncle told ANI that the seventeen-year old boy was slapped after an argument and taken to police station."He was selling vegetables in the market. The police constable came and slapped him after an argument. They dragged him and took him along with them on their bike to the police station, where they beat him to death," he alleged.The family members and other locals later blocked the Unnao-Hardoi road and also forced shops to close down. There was violation of COVID-19 lockdown as hundreds of people came out.Asked about the incident, Shashisekhar Singh, ASP, Unnao, said: "A person was brought to the police station for violating COVID norms. He fell sick when we brought him in. We immediately took him to Community Health Center, Bangarmau, where he died during his treatment."The police have sent the body for post-mortem.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/two-cops-suspended-for-killing-vegetable-vendor-in-up-s-unnao-101621701664896.html
22-05-2021||Pune||Revenue from liquor sales dips due to lockdown||The liquor sales revenue for the government for 2020- 2021 has dipped due to the closure of all liquor shops in the aftermath of lockdown announced by the state government in Pune Region. The district saw liquor revenue earnings amounting to ₹1,797 crore for the current year in comparison to ₹1,805 crores for 2019-2020. The state government has however permitted home delivery of liquor which has also caused lesser sale of liquor in the market, excise department officials said. During the last lockdown, all liquor shops were also shut and during the said period, the state noticed that the revenue earnings of the government had come down drastically which prompted it to take the decision to open all the shops under the law of essential services. For 2021, the liquor shops were functioning full steam in the months of January, February, and March but were shut down due to rising infections in the state. State excise superintendent Santosh Zagade said, “The lockdown announced by the state government to break the chain of the virus had an impact on sale of liquor. There has been a significant decline in liquor sales following the lockdown and home delivery has not got the expected response.” The excise department in its crackdown on illicit liquor has recovered booze worth ₹19 crore during the past two years during Covid-19 outbreak. It had lodged 3,526 cases in 2019-2020 and 3,040 cases in 2020-2021 With liquor shops shut since the lockdown in March and subsequent shutdown extensions due to Covid-19 pandemic, the state excise department for Pune region has pegged its losses for the industry between April and September 2020 at ₹190 crore. Also, September witnessed a decline of 50.88 per cent of the revenue earnings for the region as the department could fetch only ₹127.92 crore for the said month as compared to ₹178.80 crore during the same period last year. Percentagewise, the overall decline has been at least 21.74 per cent, excise department officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/revenue-from-liquor-sales-dips-due-to-lockdown-101621697338011.html
22-05-2021||Pune||32-year-old woman found dead in Dhankawadi||A 32-year-old woman was found in a pool of blood in her house in Dhankawadi area of Pune on Saturday. The deceased was identified as Kalpana Ghosh, a native of West Bengal, according to the police. “We have detained one person. However, the investigation is on. It’s a one-room house for which she was paying ₹3,000 for the past 7-8 months. She was alone here with no known relatives. She has not submitted any documents to the owner while renting so we cannot verify her identity immediately,” said senior police inspector Swati Desai of Sahakarnagar police station. The people living in the building where she lived and was found dead reported it to the police on Saturday. A case under Section 302 of Indian Penal Code was registered at Sahakarnagar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/32yearold-woman-found-dead-in-dhankawadi-101621697278061.html
22-05-2021||Pune||Andekar gang member wanted in two MCOCA cases arrested||A member of the Andekar gang of Pune who is facing two charges of organised crime was among two people arrested by officials of Chaturshringi police station from Kolhapur, according to Pankaj Deshmukh, deputy commissioner of police, Zone-4 of Pune police. The two were identified as Suraj alias Ganesh Ashok Wadd (24), a resident of Mangalwar peth area of Pune, and Pankaj Gorakh Waghmare (26), a resident of Gadital area of Hadapsar. They’re both in police custody until Sunday. “Wadd, we know for sure was part of Andekar gang. They were found with a weapon which they could have used to kill someone. They were both arrested in a case of extortion of local shop owners registered at Chaturshingi police station,” said DCP Deshmukh. The police have earlier invoked the Maharashtra control of organised crime act (MCOCA) in the case in which they were arrested. The police have seized a domestic made pistol and two live cartridges worth ₹20,400 from Wadd. Wadd is also facing a MCOCA case at Khadak police station and the two collectively face around 15 cases. The two were wanted in two other cases besides the one in which they have been arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/andekar-gang-member-wanted-in-two-mcoca-cases-arrested-101621697157932.html
22-05-2021||Pune||Maharashtra prisons release 400 inmates from 60 prisons in decongestion drive||The prisons in Maharashtra have released 400 prisoners in three days as part of the decongestion effort in the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic. The releases were done on May 12, 20, and 21, according to the records maintained by the prison department. Taloja jail released 23 prisoners on emergency parole along with Pune’s Yerawada central that released six, Aurangabad central released seven and Amravati central released six more. Therefore, a total of 42 prisoners were released on emergency parole. Additionally, 358 prisoners were released on bail from 60 prisons. However, Osmanabad district prison which is housing the maximum number of active cases currently has not released a single prisoner. Thane Central jail released 58 prisoners on bail, whereas 41 were released from Yerawada central jail. Active cases in Maharashtra prisons The Osmanabad district prison has a whopping number of 130 active cases among prisoners and one among jail staff. With that number, Osmanabad district prison is housing the highest number of Covid-19 patients in the state. The second highest number is currently at Thane central prison with 67 cases. The Kalyan district prison is currently housing 32 active cases of Covid-19. Taloja central and Yerawada central have 13 and six active cases respectively. Among staff members, Kolhapur district has the highest positive cases with eight staff members Covid positive while Yerawada central has six, followed by five each at Nashik road central, Yavatmal district, and Washim district prisons. A total of 343 prisoners and 58 jail staff in 47 major prisons of Maharashtra are currently Covid-19 positive and assumed to be undergoing treatment. First wave vs Second wave During the first wave of the pandemic in 2020, the population in about 60 state prisons had crossed 36,000. However, based on the Supreme Court direction form state-wise High Powered Committees (HPC) and release prisons on various conditions, upwards of 10,000 prisoners were released until July 2020. This brought the population of the prisons to around 26,000 which are closer to their ideal capacity of 23,000. However, within months, the population jumped back to 34,000 by the time the second wave started wreaking havoc. The HPC met on May 7 and 11 this year and decided to restart the process of considering around 12,000 bail applications. It also gave leeway for about 3,000 other applicants, whose previous attempts of gaining bail had failed, to reapply. However, the release process has not gained speed yet. Temporary prisons The state machinery has come up with 40 temporary jails in various districts of the state. The total capacity of the temporary prisons is 2,425 and the jails are currently housing 1,084 inmates. Of the total maximum capacity, 1,995 places are for men while 430 are for women. Currently, the prisons have 1,060 male and 24 female inmates. Pune which started one of the first temporary prisons in the state is housing 265 inmates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/maharashtra-prisons-release-400-inmates-from-60-prisons-in-decongestion-drive-101621697037920.html
22-05-2021||Pune||PWD approves ₹96 cr for new building inside Pune court premises||Litigants visiting the district court premises will no longer face issues like lack of parking spaces, foul smelling toilets and other public amenity related challenges as the Public Works Department (PWD) has approved ₹96 crore for the construction of a five-storied state of the art building inside the Shivajinagar court campus starting July. The Pune bar association which has spearheaded the issue since a long time stated the building will be one of the best facility-oriented structures for all those visiting the campus for court work.According to the PWD, the new construction will entail demolition of the over 50-year-old building structures all along starting from Gate No 4 until the lawyers’ chambers building. The heritage structures belonging to the British era will remain intact, untouched and preserved for posterity. The new building will have world class court rooms with quality ante chambers and all other facilities for the litigants, judges and the court staff. The court hall will undergo a revamp as the Pune bar association demanded that the capacity be extended to 500 with an overhauled bar room and also a dedicated bar room for women lawyers. Also, the water closets and sanitation blocks will be upgraded to the highest standards according to the construction plan. The demand for new buildings with ultra-modern facilities for the convenience for one and all has been gaining currency for past several years with the lawyers’ association and litigants expressing their need for the said type of building. PBA president advocate Satish Mulik said, “The district judge has informed us that the work is likely to start from July during a meeting with the office bearers last week. Initially, the old structures will be demolished, and the bar association office will be shifted to a temporary location. A meeting with other lawyers who have chambers in other buildings have been planned for smoother execution of the construction work.” The court premises will have a two storied dedicated parking facility where around 1,500 two wheelers and around 600 cars can be accommodated. Prahlad Shinde, a lawyer who practices in the court said “This new building will lead to convenience for litigants, visitors, judges and staff. A good environment which includes all the ultra-modern facilities in court rooms will result in quality work and increase our efficiency collectively.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pwd-approves-rs-96-cr-for-new-building-inside-pune-court-premises-101621696977852.html
22-05-2021||Pune||Nazirkar, Khomane’s bail applications rejected in disproportionate assets case||A bail application made by Hanumant Jagannath Nazirkar (55), the suspended town planning joint director, Amaravati, and his nephew Rahul Shivaji Khomane (31), a resident of Shirval in Baramati, was rejected by a special court in Pune on Saturday. Nazirkar and Khomane were arrested in March in a case by the Anti-corruption bureau (ACB) registered at Alankar police station in June 2020. The eight people booked in the case have been accused of amassing assets worth ₹82, 38, 34,941, according to the police complaint in the case. The decision was taken by judge SR Navander while hearing the bail application made by the two. “For amassing disproportionate assets Hanumant Nazirkar and for encouraging and helping him do so, his nephew Rahul Khomane were denied bail by the court,” said public prosecutor Premkumar Agarwal. These assets are apart from the 37 partnership firms and private limited companies in which the family members have invested. The police have also alleged that Nazirkar forged the death certificate of his later father-in-law in order to transfer the deceased man’s wealth to his wife Sangeeta Nazirkar. Since their arrest, Nazirkar has been in magisterial custody for medical reasons while Khomane is in magisterial custody as well. Apart from the case, Nazirkar has three other cases registered against him - two in Baramati police station of Pune rural police and one at APMC police station of Navi Mumbai police. The police are investigating the allegations against them since January 1986 and March 2020 when the man served in the public office. Along with Nazirkar, six other people including his wife, daughter, son, nephew, and their lawyer have also been booked. The case is under Sections 13(m)(b)(e), RW 13(2) of Prevention of Corruption Act, and Sections 109, 420, 465, 467, 468, 471, 472, 474, 475, and 120(b) of Indian Penal Code is registered at Alankar police on June 23, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/nazirkar-khomane-s-bail-applications-rejected-in-disproportionate-assets-case-101621696858894.html
22-05-2021||Pune||MPCB seeks explanation from PMC for dumping waste in riverbed area||Despite National Green Tribunal’s (NGT) warning, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has continued to operate the garbage processing plant at Sinhagad road and is dumping garbage at the Mutha riverbed. Following a complaint from local residents and environmental activists, the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) visited the spot and sought an explanation from PMC officials. Abhishek Kumbharkar, a local resident of Wadgaon Budruk area found out the dumping of garbage near the Bhumi Green Energy Company premises. The processing plant near Prayeja city on Sinhagad road was set up by PMC in 2016 with contract given to Bhumi Green Energy to process 150 metric ton of garbage. The private firm recycles waste and produces a RDF (refuse derived fuel). Kumbharkar approached environmental activist Sarang Yadwadkar, who wrote a letter to the PMC solid waste department and MPCB officials. Kiran Hasabnis, MPCB sub-regional officer said, “After the complaint, we visited the spot on Friday and found the company is storing waste outside the project premises near the river. Most of the garbage is segregated plastic. Due to the slope, the garbage is rolling into the river. We have noted down versions of the company and other observations. We will send a letter to PMC to explain whether the land belongs to PMC, or it has taken on rent to dump the garbage. If we find any flaws in the explanation and our observation, we will serve notice to PMC and company.” Vijay Tilekar, Owner, Bhumi Energy Green Company said, “We set up the plant in 2016 and are processing 150 metric tonnes of waste and producing RDF (refuse derived fuel). We give plastic material to other companies for recycling purposes. It has taken the private land on rent adjacent to our plant to keep plastic material temporary before transporting to Malegaon based plastic recycling plant. There is no dumping of garbage in the riverbed.” In 2019, Yadwadkar had filed a petition in the NGT and mentioned the 12 dumping spots in Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) and Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority (PMRDA). The NGT took cognisance of the issue and appointed a five-member committee and NGT had appointed MPCB as nodal agency, while warning municipal commissioners of Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad that they should ensure that no further dumping of debris or any other waste, including construction waste is disposed of in the river. Yadwadkar said, “The firm stored garbage near the river side instead of the project premises. The land is outside the project, and it has been shown in the river protection belt in Pune city’s development plan (DP). The land reclamation has been done and the dumped garbage is is rolling into the river and polluting river water. On one side, the PMC has undertaken a river development project and on the other hand, it is polluting a river.” Ajit Deshmukh, head of the solid waste department of the PMC said, “Our officials visited the spot. The company has put aside recycling material near the company premises. We instructed the company to remove the rejects as early as possible.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/mpcb-seeks-explanation-from-pmc-for-dumping-waste-in-riverbed-area-101621696798160.html
22-05-2021||Pune||27-year-old arrested for illegal sale of deer horns||A 27-year-old man was arrested by Pune city police crime branch for sale of smuggled sambar deer horns on Friday in Haveli. The arrested man was identified as Pravin Dilip Shinde, a resident of Pimplekhed area of Shirur, according to a statement issued by Unit 6 of crime branch. The police recovered three horns and one two-wheeler vehicle from the man. The total worth of the seizure was estimated to be ₹35,000, according to the police. “This man is working on someone else’s behalf. He is unemployed. The antelope horns are priceless. We had sent a decoy customer and the man was quoting crores of rupees for it. We are looking for the man who gave him the horns,” said police inspector Ganesh Mane of Unit 6. The officials of Unit 6 had received information about the man arriving in Fulgaon area of Haveli on Friday. Based on the information, a team of Unit 6 led by police inspector Ganesh Mane set a trap for the man and arrested him while riding on the two-wheeler. A case under Wildlife Preservation Act was registered against the man at Lonikand police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/27yearold-arrested-for-illegal-sale-of-deer-horns-101621696677887.html
22-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra records 26,133 fresh Covid-19 cases, 682 deaths take toll to 87,300||Maharashtra’s daily coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases dipped further on Friday as the state recorded 26,133 fresh Covid-19 cases taking the tally to 5,553,225. The state’s death toll due to the pandemic reached 87,300 with 682 fresh fatalities over the last 24 hours. The case fatality rate in the state increased to 1.57%. The state’s daily number of cases dropped by 3,511 cases as the state had recorded 29,644 on Friday. The drop in the number of cases came in the backdrop of 281,585 tests which means 5,916 less people were tested between May 21 and May 22. The state had tested 287,501 people between May 20 and May 21. Case positivity rate dipped to 16.97% in the state. Financial hub Mumbai reported 1,283 cases on Saturday as the tally reached 695,483. Mumbai also reported 52 deaths which took its death toll to 14,516.Maharashtra number of recoveries also saw a slight drop as the state recorded 40,294 recoveries which took the tally of recovered people to 5,111,095. Maharashtra recorded 44,493 recoveries on Friday. The recovery rate in the state rose to 92.04%. Maharashtra along with Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, UP, Punjab and Delhi was among the six states and Union Territories which reported most fatalities. Pune, Satara, Ahmednagar, Mumbai Metropolitan area and satellite towns, Kolhapur, Sangli, Nagpur and Nashik added new infections with Pune reporting 6,652 new cases. While Aurangabad and Beed reported a decline in new cases, Latur saw a rise in the number of new cases||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-records-26-133-fresh-covid-19-cases-682-deaths-take-toll-to-87300-101621695949094.html
22-05-2021||Patna||Darbhanga Medical College Hospital battles big odds to save Covid-19 patients||The facilities at the Darbhanga Medical College Hospital (DMCH), one of the oldest medical colleges in Bihar after the Patna Medical College Hospital, are in a sorry state.Residents of several districts including Samastipur, Madhubani and Saharsa depend on the DMCH but a visit to this medical college reminds one of hell.Filled with garbage and waterlogged, the hospital premises are unhygienic with pigs and cows hanging around.Nurses on emergency duty were seen crossing over pools of dirty water. A nurse, Dipa Kumari, said they have been facing this situation for 27 years and it worsens during the monsoons. She said frontline workers are forced to serve by putting their own lives at risk.Not even the DMCH medical superintendent Mani Bhushan Sharma's office has been spared. In order to escape injury or get himself drenched in the filthy water, Sharma has to take the help of a guard and driver to reach his office.When asked, Sharma said the situation is not new because this hospital is very old and situated in a low-lying area. On the Covid situation and facilities for Covid patients, he said they are fighting day and night with the support of the administration. He, however, pointed out that there is a lack of manpower to handle ventilator issues. Sharma, who himself has recovered from coronavirus, said his daughter is also Covid positive, but despite all odds, he is doing everything possible to ensure the recovery of patients.Sharma said DMCH is running a Covid ward in a new building where everything is upgraded.However, in front of the DMCH superintendent's office is the Covid ICU ward. The nearby area is again inundated with dirty water.Doctor Ashutosh Kumar, who serves in the Covid ICU ward said, said doctors and nurses are at God's mercy with high chances of infection from garbage and water-logging on the premises but they are helpless.The road to the new nurses' hostel, especially for the ones serving in the Covid wards is damaged and water-logged.Chandan, whose father-in-law is critical and admitted to the Covid ward, crosses the water-logged road to buy medicines. He said, "What can we do? I have to go to get medicines every day. I have to buy them from outside."The surgery ward of DMCH is in a similar poor state, and the chances of any untoward incident can't be ruled out. Half the building has already been vacated by the administration due to worsening conditions leaving the surgery ward at God's mercy.Reacting to the poor condition of the building, a surgical ward staff member said, "Yes, we are afraid but you have to ask this question from the government."The DDC of Darbhanga Tanay Sultania told ANI, "We have made available two senior doctors (POD) and four SR/PG doctors in each shift for three shifts every day. Apart from that, we have made available one senior doctor and two PG students of the medicine department in each shift for the care of serious patients. Physician on call (head of one medicine unit) is also available.""Before April 12 only one POD and 2-3 PG students were there for the entire HDU ward and converting HDU to semi-ICU--the entire HDU ward is made as semi-ICU with 75 BIPAPs available for non-invasive ventilation. Sixteen patients are currently on BIPAP. The nursing station has been operationalised on each floor. There are two nurses each on five floors in each shift. Earlier there were only six nurses in each shift," he said.He said, "And we increased the number of ward boys from 4-5 in total to 10 government ward boys in each shift and six outsourced ward boys in each shift dedicated to the movement of cylinders. Also, the control room functions all the time for addressing complaints. Twenty calls are made by operators on their own to admitted patients to seek feedback in each shift every day."Blaming the low-lying area and the old building that houses the DMCH for the unhygienic conditions on the premises, Sultania said the entire focus has now been shifted to the cure of Covid patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/darbhanga-medical-college-hospital-battles-big-odds-to-save-covid-19-patients-101621694018488.html
22-05-2021||Ranchi||26 Jharkhand migrant workers stranded in Nepal depart for Dumka||Twenty-six Jharkhand migrant workers stuck in Nepal due to COVID-induced lockdown there on Saturday reached India-Nepal border and boarded a bus for their home in Dumka, a top official said. These migrant workers from Jharkhand,engaged in a project in Nepal by Larsen & Tourbro,through a contractor,had been stranded due to lockdown in the Himalayan country to rein in coronavirus surge and had been sending SOS messages including video messages to the Jharkhand government for rescue.The workers reached Viratnagar on Bihar-Nepal border and boarded the bus to travel to Dumka, around 245 km away. "Our worker brothers have reached India-Nepal border. Soon they will depart for Dumka. Team of officers and paramedics are at Viratnagar on Bihar-Nepal border to bring them home safely. "RAT kits, dry ration, oxygen cylinder equipped ambulance have all been sent from Dumka," said Deputy Commissioner Dumka, Rajeshwari B, who had flagged off a bus from Indoor stadium to Nepal border alongwith officials for the ferrying workers Friday.A migrant worker coming home thanked Hemant Soren-led government for their rescue. "We are sitting in a bus sent by the Jharkhand government. We have been provided food.Apart from Subh Sandesh Foundation, Indian Youth Association, Nepal too helped us besides Chief Minister Hemant Soren, legislator Basant Soren and DC among others.Nepal people also helped us including media persons ...," Narayan Das, a migrant worker, said in a video message. The migrant workers hailing from Dumka district had appealed to the government for rescue, saying they were unwell and held up in Sindhupalchok district of Nepal.Former legislator Kunal Sarangi, JMM Legislator Basant Soren took up their cause and chief minister Hemant Soren as well as Indian Embassy in Nepal also intervened. "A prompt action was initiated for the return of migrant 26 workers stuck in Nepal at the instance of chief minister Hemant Soren. The state government took up the issue with the Nepal government."As a result of the initiatives, the workers will be returning to Jharkhand on Saturday," a state government official had said. Sarangi said members of Janata Samajwadi Party Nepal helped in locating the workers and also in their return back home.Chief Minister's office said a bus and an ambulance were rushed to the Indo-Nepal border to bring back workers. Approval from Nepal government had already been sought for this, the official added. On their return, the workers will undergo health check and COVID tests, the official said. The Jharkhand government has imposed lockdown-like restrictions that mandate compulsory seven-day quarantine for people coming to the state. The workers will be brought to Dumka's indoor stadium first.Former legislator and BJP leader Kunal Sarangi among others had escalated the matter urging the Ministry of External Affairs besides Indian Embassy in Nepal and others thanked the Indian Embassy in Nepal too for swinging into action. A Larsen & Toubro spokesperson confirmed that the workers were engaged by the company at a project site through a contractor. Chief minister Soren had on Thursday retweeted a message by a non-profit body Shubh Sandesh Foundation: "Doing our best to assist 26 Jharkhand migrants stuck in Nepal. Our friends in Nepal are in touch coordinating food, travel pass, medicine etc for them."Earlier, former legislator Sarangi had tweeted: "I sincerely request @DrSJaishankar Sir & @IndiaInNepal to get it looked into. These poor migrant labourers from Jharkhand are stuck in Nepal and they are very unwell. Pls rescue them." In earlier video messages the migrant workers were seen appealing to the Jharkhand government to rescue them while saying that they are stranded in Nepal due to the lockdown and most of them have fallen sick but are not getting any medical attention and food.In a separate message later, the workers said that they have received a communication from the Shubh Sandesh Foundation that arrangements are being done for their safe return.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/26-jharkhand-migrant-workers-stranded-in-nepal-depart-for-dumka-101621688755633.html
22-05-2021||Chandigarh||With hospital 8 hours away, Covid centre set up at remote HP village||To check the spread of coronavirus in the tribal regions of Himachal Pradesh, particularly areas bordering Uttarakhand in Shimla and Sirmaur districts, the civil administration has set up a 10-bed Covid care centre at Kwar village. The transit Covid care centre will cater to patients from the remote panchayats of Dodra, Kwar, Jiskun, Pandhar and Dhandwarhi, which has a population of about 7,500. Locked away in the Himalayas, Dodra Kwar is one of the remotest inhabited pockets of the state that was connected by road only in 2013.The nearest hospital at Rohru is an eight-hour drive away due to the poor condition of roads in the region. Dodra and Kwar are two villages on the opposite sides of the valley separated by the Rupin river that merges into the Tons river. Also read: Two Covid vaccine doses needed for protection against variant from India: Report“Cases are on the rise and it’s not possible for all patients to travel to the nearest hospital at Rohru so we decided to set up the Covid care centre in the village itself,” says Rohru sub divisional magistrate BR Sharma, who holds the additional charge of the Dodra Kwar SDM. “We have set up the centre in a government building that was earlier being used as a sheep carding centre,” said Sharma, adding that the centre has two wards. At present, it has three patients, while there are 42 active cases in the remote region. Health teams deputed for vaccination The health department has deputed five teams to vaccinate those above 44 years in the villages of the region. The department has also stationed an ambulance at Kwar village to ferry critical patients to the civil hospital at Rohru. The civil hospital at Rohru has despatched 10 oxygen cylinders for the Covid care facility. “Local residents have been a big help. We had only 25 regulators for the cylinders but were helped by individuals and associations,” says Rohru civil hospital medical superintendent Dr Ravinder Mukhiya. The civil hospital can accommodate 70 patients though 54 patients are undergoing treatment at present. Local contractor Jai Chauhan, who travelled all the way to the industrial belt of Baddi to buy the regulators for the oxygen cylinder, says “The local truck operators’ union was a big help.” The hospital is now equipped with 90 oxygen cylinders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/with-hospital-8-hours-away-covid-centre-set-up-at-remote-hp-village-101621688938528.html
22-05-2021||Chandigarh||Chitkara University gets 5 O2 concentrators from Taiwan university||National Tsing Hua University and Taiwan Education Centre in India, with the support of governments of both the nations, has given Chitkara University five oxygen concentrators to help battle the coronavirus pandemic.“The Chitkara community has received five oxygen concentrators as a token of friendship to strengthen our multilateral ties,” said Ashok Chitkara, chancellor, Chitkara University.The 8 LPM ( litres per minute) oxygen concentrators will help devices that extract oxygen from atmospheric air. It will be an electrically-powered molecular sieve (artificial zeolite) used to separate nitrogen from ambient air. “As the country fights the second wave of Covid pandemic, oxygen concentrators are among the main instruments for treatment of patients. This gesture has not only boosted our partnership but also proved that we are together in this global pandemic. These devices will be used for the welfare of the society and for needy patients under the patronage of the Chitkara Community,” he said. In December 2019, Chitkara University had announced its association with the Taiwan Education Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chitkara-university-gets-5-o2-concentrators-from-taiwan-university-101621688278012.html
22-05-2021||Jaipur||'I was anguished': Congress' Hemaram Choudhary on resigning from MLA post||Congress MLA Hemaram Choudhary on Saturday said he was “anguished” over some issues and that was why he sent his resignation to the assembly speaker. The MLA who was among 19 legislators who rebelled last year against Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot under former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot’s leadership, is also said to be dissatisfied with the government over the alleged stoppage of the developmental work in his assembly constituency. Choudhary, however, did not elaborate on what caused anguish to him. The legislator said the Rajasthan unit president of the Congress, Govind Singh Dotasra had spoken to him and it is now for him how he sorts out the issue. “I have sent my resignation and now the speaker has to look into it. Party's state president talked to me and said it is a family matter of the party. He is head of the party in the state and it is for him to sort out the issue,” he told reporters here. Gudhamalani MLA Choudhary said he has resigned but talking about it is not his top priority. “The Covid-19 pandemic is there and people are dying. I visited anti-covid centres in my constituency and took stock of the situation and arrangements there. This is the top priority for me at present,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/i-was-anguished-congress-hemaram-choudhary-on-resigning-from-mla-post-101621686907954.html
22-05-2021||Delhi||‘Should be clearly visible’: Delhi medicine sellers asked to display Covid drug info||The Delhi Disaster Management Authority on Saturday asked all authorised dealers, retailers and sellers of essential drugs needed for treatment of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Delhi to display information with relation to its stocks and its maximum retail price in clearly visible areas inside their shops or premises for the viewing of the general public. The order also said that this information will have to be updated four times a day.Delhi’s Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal has instructed that the drugs needed for the treatment of Covid-19 should be made available to the general public. He also highlighted that hoarding, overcharging or black-marketing of these essential drugs should be stopped. He said that the new measure will ensure that such practices are minimised, news agency ANI reported. The DDMA rule states that the information should be updated at 10am, 2pm, 6pm and 9pm daily.The Lieutenant Governor also instructed that similar measures should be taken with regard to equipment like pulse oximeters, oxygen cylinders and oxygen concentrators.The Delhi high court previously ordered the Centre and the Delhi government to check black-marketing of essential medicines and medical oxygen as the city raced against time to provide for its Covid-19 patients, many of whom died due to the lack of medical oxygen as well as life-saving drugs. “We are still not understanding the gravity of the situation and that is why we are not coming together. Which is why we are seeing instances of hoarding and black marketing. Our moral fabric has been dismembered to a great extent,” Delhi high court said on May 6.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-medicine-sellers-asked-to-display-covid-19-related-drug-info-prominently-101621682868025.html
22-05-2021||Pune||Business snippets from around Pune||HealthTech Community’s fireside chat with Dr Parag Sancheti The Pune HealthTech Community has invited Dr Parag Sancheti, chairman, Sancheti Hospital, for a “fireside chat”, along with serial healthcare entrepreneur Dr Ashwin Naik. The virtual session will be conducted on May 28 at 5pm. Dr Sancheti will share his views on “Technology needs and requirements of hospitals, post pandemic”. Stimveda Neurosciences is the startup presenting this session. Ruby Hall Clinic, Enable.Initiative, and DisruptHealth and Dasar are community partners. The Pune Health-Tech Community helps healthcare start-ups to connect, collaborate with other healthcare start-ups to have a bigger and better impact in healthcare. Reccy Adventures raises ₹3 crore from Rebel Foods Adventure sports startup Reccy Adventures has raised Rs3 crore in a seed round, from the founders of Rebel Foods – Jaydeep Barman and Kallol Banerjee. Reccy has indicated that the funds raised will be used on aggressive headcount expansion, as well as developing product range. Reccy shall offer a slew of products and services, ranging from e-commerce in the activewear, accessories and gear space, to discovery and booking of outdoor and adventure activities, to access to coaching, training, competitions, local sports, recovery and rehabilitation, as well as sport-specific communities. The brand has recently launched the beta version of a discovery and booking platform for adventure and outdoor activities. Next up, is the introductions of a new range of outdoor focused activewear.Funding and filing support for international patent applications The Tech-Transfer Hub at Venture Centre has invited applications from startups for support for international patent applications. The call is open till May 25, 2021. A funding support of ₹1.2 lakh towards statutory fees for the filing (with India Search Authority) and discounted drafting and filing services (as per eligible discount category), will be offered to the selected applicants. This is a competitive funding support and applicants have to be Indian-owned (more than 50 per cent) and a PLC/LLP and DIPP (Startup India Scheme) registered start-up. DIPP registration, a receipt of filing patent at Indian Patent office, certificate of incorporation of startup and presentation about startup is mandatory to be submitted while applying for the programme. Email amruta@venturecenter.co.in QuEST Global set to expand its operations in PuneQuEST Global announced that it plans to expand operations in Pune and hire more 2,000 engineers in the next three years. The company currently has an employee strength of 350 engineers working out of its Pune centre with capabilities in software and digital engineering capabilities and plays a crucial role in supporting customers in hi-tech verticals globally.By increasing its headcount in the city, the company aims at enhancing its focus on new age digital technologies like Artificial Intelligence, Deep Learning, Internet of Things, and Data Analytics. As part of its expansion plan, the company will hire engineers with expertise in technologies like Cloud, JAVA, Android & iOS, Web Technologies, Angular, React, Restful API technologies, and .NET/C++. Last year, the company had also launched a dedicated Centre for Excellence (CoE) for Microsoft Azure in Pune.Credit Suisse to hire 1000+ IT employeesCredit Suisse plans to hire over 1,000 IT employees in India this year. The hires will comprise of developers and engineers who have capabilities in emerging technologies such as cybersecurity, data analytics, cloud, API development, machine learning and artificial intelligence that are anchored in agile and dev-ops delivery methods, to support the bank’s digital aspirations.India now accounts for nearly 25% of the bank’s global IT staff, the largest footprint of any Credit Suisse location globally. John Burns, Head India IT and senior franchise officer, Pune, said: “This year’s hiring plan highlights our continued commitment to India, particularly to Maharashtra, and supports Credit Suisse’s vision to establish our operations here as a global technological hub.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/business-snippets-from-around-pune-101621681860538.html
22-05-2021||Chandigarh||Develop social media strategy to fight fake info on Covid: Experts||From linking 5G communication technology and male infertility to the Covid-19 pandemic, the state health authorities see fake theories being floated on social media as major contributors to the slow response to vaccination in the rural areas. As the Punjab government has yet to draw up a strategy to debunk unfounded claims, conspiracy theories are being spread to disrupt the government’s plans to contain the pandemic. Also read: ‘Enough is enough’: IMA demands prosecution of Ramdev under Epidemics ActCommunication analysts say that the state government may take a cue from the Centre’s Press Information Bureau (PIB) to combat hoax messages on social media. State ministers, MLAs and MPs should proactively step forward to clear rumours around Covid-19 and its treatment, the experts say. The government should identify specific false narratives challenging Covid-appropriate behaviour and engage professionals for the effective handling of misinformation and fake news, they say. Vaccine hesitancy, containment zones in Fazilka Fazilka district epidemiologist Dr Sunita confirms that during mass testing it was observed that villagers attributed vaccine hesitancy to 5G technology. “It was common to hear in the rural areas that infections and mortality were due to the new age technology used by the communication sector. Scores of them were in a denial on the pandemic and we are still struggling to convince them,” she says. Fazilka has the highest nine villages as containment zones where the areas are sealed due to a high number of virus infections. Bhartiya Kisan Union (Haryana) president Gurnam Singh Chaduni recently told villagers that the large number of deaths in the rural areas was due to 5G radiation and not Covid-19. 5G testing hasn’t even started in the country The testing of the 5G network has not yet started anywhere in India, says the Cellular Operators Association of India (COAI) in a recent press statement. “Such audio and video messages by others as well are on social media for quite some time. Rural communities take farmer union leaders seriously on such issues. Since fake narratives have not been countered, a section of people still believe that the pandemic is not an emergency medical situation but an official conspiracy to derail the farmer agitation against the farm laws,” says a civil surgeon. Another source in the health department says a section of people fear vaccination may affect male fertility or cause genetic changes among young women. “The global scientific community has ruled out any such impact of vaccines, but these issues are prevalent among the urban and rural population. In April, the state government roped in Moga born actor-philanthropist Sonu Sood as a brand ambassador for Punjab’s vaccination programme, but he has hardly any visibility on the importance of Covid-appropriate behaviour,” he said. Engage religious leaders, Punjabi singers According to Rubal Kanozia, a media analyst and an assistant professor at Central University of Punjab, Bathinda, the Punjab government should engage religious leaders, Punjabi singers and even news anchors, who have a sizeable following on social media, to debunk myths associated with the pandemic and vaccination. “Punjab has a significant penetration of smartphones in villages and celebrated faces can become a game-changer by using social media platforms. A call by heads of religious institutions and deras can improve inoculation significantly,” he adds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/develop-social-media-strategy-to-fight-fake-info-on-covid-experts-101621681197495.html
22-05-2021||Pune||Startup Mantra: Putting your health in your own hands||Founded in 2015, Avegen is a health-tech startup based in Pune and London. Avegen builds digital care programmes that it claims are personalised, patient-centric and evidence-based. Its HealthMachine platform is a software-as-a-servce (SaaS) deploying these digital care programs that improve health of individuals with long-term conditions. These digital care programmes – built on a compliant and scalable platform - are designed around the patient enabling proactive care for patients with chronic conditions, and supports clinicians in improved patient management. Coming togetherSays Apte, “The team is split between Pune and London. Nayan is based in London and he heads our commercial and client services team. The product development team and program management is of India. Nayan and I have been in touch since 2006-07. While I sold my previous company, Nayan was also looking to start something. We essentially decided that it was a good time to get together and launched this venture in late 2015.”HealthMachine – Powering digital care programmesHealthMachine puts each patient in control of their own health, tracking progress and strengthening outcomes. Easy-to-use functions and gamification touches make HealthMachine-based care programmes intuitive and effective, removing traditional barriers. Avegen currently has three digital care programs on HealthMachine:•Cardiac rehabilitation•Maternal health •HIV‘Together for Her’ in IndiaExplaining the digital care program for women, Kalnad said, “Avegen has been working in the digital healthcare space since 2015 in both India and the UK. It is Avegen’s Vision to transform healthcare using technology, and we work in multiple disease and care areas, including cardio-pulmonary care, HIV, and maternal health. Together for Her (TFH), our maternal healthcare program was started in 2017 with a vision to improve the quality of maternal healthcare and reduce preventable maternal deaths.”Kalnad claims that TFH is a completely digital care program for pregnant women with over 30,000 users at present. The application provides gestational week-specific information on recommended healthcare behaviours, as well as data-driven feedback on their nutritional and antenatal behaviours. Additionally, TFH uses machine learning and predictive analytics to provide maternal health information that is personalised to a pregnant woman’s health status. “Firstly, we want to reduce deaths during pregnancy. In terms of impact on women’s health, we aim to reduce anaemia prevalence in mothers who use the app by at least 20 per cent, compared to treatment as usual. Also, we are aiming at having 25 lakh mothers on our TFH program in the next five years,” Kalnad adds.Gupte says explains, “We all consume lot of technology every day. However, most advanced and powerful tech is unfortunately directed at making us buying something, instead of improving our lives. What drives me is using same tech to have a positive impact on peoples’ lives. India is a powerhouse of delivering software and IT projects to the world but we don’t develop world-class software for Indian consumers. We wanted to change this and hence, we developed TFH which is available to Indian users in English and Hindi.”Providing relevant content Says Gupte, “The content on the platform changes on two dimensions. Fresh relevant content is being developed on a regular basis, while in terms of personalisation, when a mother signs up we build a profile for her based on the areas of interests. Pregnancy is definitive journey of nine months and hence, week by week, certain content becomes more relevant. So, respective content is shown to them correspondingly.”First adopters The biggest customers Avegen’s HealthMachine are pharmaceutical companies and hospitals in the UK. In India, doctors and non-governmental organisations (NGOs) are the first adopters. “Avegen also helped one Mumbai-based NGO build a helpline for HIV positive patients during the first lockdown in the country in March 2020,” says Gupte.Funding Merck for Mothers (MFM) has been a funding partner with Avegen since 2017. MFM has supported the development of TFH, which was started as a quality-of-care review platform and has since evolved into the current maternal care program. MFM works with partners around the globe to support innovative solutions that aim to end maternal deaths.As for Avegen, Dr Kalnad says, “We are a bootstrapped company. The initial investment was mainly from friends and family. We had raised around $250K in 2016. This year we want to raise fresh round of funding of about Rs28 to Rs30 crore to expand in Europe. We want to be the first or major company having origins in India which will make big in the digital therapeutics and digital care program space.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/startup-mantra-putting-your-health-in-your-own-hands-101621680718005.html
22-05-2021||Lucknow||UP needs strong leadership to build back economy, attract investment post-Covid, says Akhilesh Yadav||Samajwadi Party supremo Akhilesh Yadav on Saturday asked the BJP-led Uttar Pradesh government to shed politics and make operational the health centres opened during his regime amid the Covid-19 pandemic outbreak."Taking inspiration from good work always paves the path for improvement. If BJP government sheds politics and starts the cancer institute in Lucknow and other modern health centres in Jhansi, Jaunpur, Azamgarh, Sitapur, Budaun, Saharanpur, Lakhimpur, Ayodhya, it will save lives of thousands," he said in a tweet in Hindi.The former chief minister also said that the state needs a leadership that can help build back the economy and attract investments in the post-Covid time."The impact of Covid isn't just a question of health, but the economic devastation is just as significant. Post Covid we need leadership that can hep build back UP's economy and attract investment," he said in another tweet.The SP leader also tagged a news report titled "Bangladesh beats India in per capita income" with his tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-needs-strong-leadership-to-build-back-economy-attract-investment-post-covid-says-akhilesh-yadav-101621679890658.html
22-05-2021||City||6 new oxygen plants to meet Meghalaya’s second Covid-19 wave requirements||By David LaitphlangMeghalaya will soon get six fully operational oxygen generation plants for effectively tackling the second wave of the Covid-19 across the state. All works are expected to be completed by next week, director of health services (DHS), Dr Aman War said while speaking to the media.“There are six numbers of oxygen plants where installation is going on. We hope that all these plants will be up and running by the early part of next week,” he said.Three plants sanctioned from the PM Cares, Government of India will soon be operational at Shillong Civil Hospital, Ganesh Das Maternity & Child Hospital and RP Chest TB hospital, War elaborated while revealing that a 600-litres per minute (LPM) oxygen plant for Shillong Civil Hospital is being airlifted from Delhi and is scheduled to reach the state capital on May 25.Meanwhile, in a bid to tie up the growing demand for oxygen in various medical facilities in the state, Dr War said the government has arranged the installation of six generators of 45 LPM each which have already been commissioned since last Monday.“The six generators are catering to 25 Covid beds in the Covid Wing of the Shillong Civil Hospital and that too on high flow which means a very high consumption of oxygen,” he said, adding that all necessary piping has been completed for the Shillong Civil Hospital by only connecting the generation plant to the all the rooms for effective and seamless oxygen distribution to all the wards.The DHS also informed that another oxygen plant for the RP Chest TB Hospital airlifted from Delhi yesterday should be reaching the location today. “As soon as it reaches, the installation will immediately commence and we expect by the early part of next week these machines will be up and running,” he said while adding that the plant at Ganesh Das hospital will also be up and running by tomorrow.The three other oxygen plants for Jowai, Tura and Nongpoh have been sanctioned by the UNDP.Dr War said the machines for Nongpoh and Jowai have reached and are under installation while for Tura, the machine is already on the way and should have reached by now. “All necessary civil works are going on in full swing. Everyone is working 24x7 to complete the tasks,” he said.Meanwhile, the top doctor informed that the government is also setting up two cryogenic oxygen plants at Umsawli, Shillong and Jengjal, Tura. “Work is going on in full swing for the 13 KL plant at Umsawli and we expect that this plant will be up and running by June 15 latest. The plant will be able to deliver 1,000 cylinders refilling capacity in a day,” he said.“In Jengjal, Tura another 20 KL plant is coming up and we expect it will be ready within 2 weeks. Side preparation has already been done. Now we only have to do the civil works which are going on in full swing and it may come up earlier than the one in Shillong and this will cater to 2,000 cylinders per day,” he stated.With these plants, the government expects that it will be sufficient to give a continuous supply of oxygen to Khasi-Jaintia and Garo Hills regions of the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/6-new-oxygen-plants-to-meet-meghalaya-s-second-covid-19-wave-requirements-101621678889638.html
22-05-2021||Chandigarh||Sidhu dares Capt Amarinder to prove he wanted to switch sides||Congress leader and former Punjab minister Navjot Singh Sidhu, who has been critical of chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh over the Bargari sacrilege issue, on Saturday challenged him to prove that he had met any leader of another party for switching sides. “Prove one meeting that I have had with another party’s leader. I have never asked anyone for any post till date. All I seek is Punjab’s prosperity. Was invited and offered Cabinet berths many times but I did not accept. Now, our esteemed high command has intervened, Will wait,” the Amritsar East MLA tweeted. Also read: 6 feet or 10 metres: What experts say about safe distance to keep Covid at bayHe also shared a video footage of a press conference he addressed recently in Patiala in which he says that his family members and he sacrificed key posts just for the sake of Punjab so why would he seek the posts now. His tweet comes after Capt Amarinder claimed that “he (Sidhu) is in talks with Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) chief Arvind Kejriwal and that he can switch sides any moment”. Without mentioning his name, he dared him to prove that he had had any meeting with a leader of any other party. Sidhu has been critical of Capt Amarinder after the Punjab and Haryana high court last month quashed a probe into the 2015 Kotkapura firing incident, which had taken place during a protest against the desecration of a religious text in Faridkot district. The CM too had slammed Sidhu, calling his outbursts total indiscipline and suggesting that he may be leaving for the AAP. Capt Amarinder and Sidhu had met over tea in March following reports that the Congress central leadership had been trying to rehabilitate the MLA who had resigned as minister after he was divested of the local bodies portfolio in 2019. After the meeting, Amarinder had expressed confidence that Sidhu would be back in his cabinet. Sidhu had joined the Congress after leaving the BJP before the 2017 assembly elections. Punjab cooperative and jails minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, Jalandhar Cantonment MLA Pargat Singh and Rajya Sabha member Partap Singh Bajwa are among the other Congress leaders who have criticised Capt Amarinder for not delivering justice in the Bargari sacrilege and police firing incidents. All these Congress leaders also want action against former chief minister Parkash Singh Badal and former deputy CM and Shiromani Akali Dal chief Sukhbir Singh Badal in this issue. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sidhu-dares-capt-amarinder-to-prove-he-wanted-to-switch-sides-101621678857822.html
22-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi records 2,260 new Covid-19 cases, active caseload falls further to 31,308||Daily new cases continued to decline in Delhi on Saturday as the city reported 2,260 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), a bulletin from the health department showed. With this, the national capital’s cumulative cases reached 1,415,219, data showed. Also, 182 patients lost their lives to the infection on the day, which pushed the death toll to 23,013.The fresh infections detected on Saturday is the lowest the city has reported in a 24-hour time period since March 31, when there were less than 2,000 new cases reported (1,819 cases to be exact).As many as 6,453 patients were reported as recovered on the day taking the overall recoveries to 1,360,898. Cumulative recovery rate in Delhi currently stands at 96.16 per cent.Meanwhile, the active caseload also shrunk by 4,375 cases and currently stands at 31,308 from the 35,683 previously reported on Friday, data from the bulletin showed. At its peak, there were 99,361 active cases reported in Delhi on April 30 during the second wave.Also read | India’s Covid-19 active caseload at over 2.9 million; 8 states contribute 69% to national tallyMedical workers in the city conducted 63,155 tests, comprising 43,061 RTPCR, CBNAAT, TrueNat tests and 20,094 Rapid Antigen Tests, for Covid-19 in the last 24 hours. So far 18,659,148 tests have been conducted, according to the bulletin. Cumulative positivity rate in the city stands at 7.58 per cent, while the case fatality rate (CFR) is 1.63 per cent.Delhi currently has 48,429 containment zones and 18,060 patients are currently in home isolation, according to the latest data.Under the city’s Covid-19 vaccination drive, 49,957 beneficiaries received a jab in the last 24 hours of whom 41,155 received their first dose and 8,802 received their second. So far 5,017,579 beneficiaries have received the jab in the national capital.Earlier in the day, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi over the vaccine situation in Delhi saying that vaccination centres have been closed due to non-availability of stocks. “We've to close the vaccination centres from today as vaccines for 18+ category is exhausted. Delhi needs 80 lakh vaccines every month so that everyone here can be vaccinated within 3 months,” news agency ANI cited from Kejriwal’s letter.“Delhi received only 16 lakh vaccines in May and we have been told that we will receive only 8 lakh vaccines in June. If this is the pace then it will take 30 months to vaccinate just the adults,” the letter further read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-records-2-260-new-covid-19-cases-active-caseload-falls-further-to-31308-101621678272000.html
22-05-2021||Other||Assam folk singer sings over phone to boost mental health of Covid-19 patients||Bikramjit Bauliya, a 33-year-old folk singer from Malugram area in Silchar, Assam, sings for Covid-19 positive people over the phone to boost their mental health. A few days back, he shared a post on social media and started getting calls. Over 200 people have so far called him from various parts of Assam and other states to hear him hum and sing. Talking about his reason behind the campaign, Bikarmjit Bauliya said, “Last year I also tested positive and it was a tough time I went through, mostly because of the pressure I faced. I have struggled with depression at one point in my life and I know how tough it is to fight with our own mind. I am a singer but I have to work for my father’s medicine shop to earn my bread and butter. Music is my passion and I gain positivity from music. With this campaign, I am getting a chance to connect with people and listening to their stories. This is making me more positive and optimistic.”Many of them don’t just listen to his songs but also share their experience, fear, anxiety and battle with the coronavirus disease. An 82-year-old lady calls him every day. On Saturday morning she informed that she tested negative. The lady claimed that she recovered quickly due to the positive energy she generated within because of Bikarmjit’s songs. Bikarmjit started his campaign inspired by Bengali singer Lopamudra Mitra. So many singers, including Lopamudra Mitra and Shilajit Mazumder, have called and appreciated his gesture. “Some people are criticising me by saying that it is just another publicity stunt. But these people are not ready to discuss mental health. I got calls from various singers and they appreciated my initiative. No matter how people criticise me, I am going to continue this because I believe, we need to work on mental health.”Bikarmjit’s actual surname is Kar but he writes Bauliya which is inspired by the Bauls (Bengali folk singers). He once auditioned for Saregamapa Bengali where he couldn’t manage to get into the top-12 because of his folk accent. But he continued his passion for music after that. He sings almost everywhere, be it a friend’s wedding or when someone is feeling upset. “There is no shame in singing. If I can make someone happy, I can do it anywhere, anytime,” he said.Requests for Bikarmjit’s songs pour in not just from Assam but states like Tripura, West Bengal, Chattisgarh, Uttar Pradesh, Maharastra, Delhi and Panjab. “I sing Bengali folk songs mostly but people from other languages are also requesting me to sing in their languages. Music can be a therapy for people in distress. In this situation, we need to be kind towards each other. I am happy that people are responding,” he said.Chattisgarh resident Mihir Purkayastha has his roots connected to Assam. His ancestors lived in Karimganj district decades back. A friend told him about the folk singer’s Facebook post and shared the number. Mihir said, “I feel connected to my roots through folk music. I felt excited to talk to a folk singer and called him. His positive energy helped me get more energy inside me. I hope I’ll recover from covid soon.”82-year-old Nazima Begum from Hailakandi district said, “When my test report came positive, I had to stay at home isolation. It was tough because I was feeling abounded. My family members were not coming close to me, I had nobody to talk to and share my feelings. My granddaughter informed me that there is a singer who is willing to sing for me if I call him. I am a music lover, so I called him. Now I feel he is my grandson. He is so positive, he encouraged me to be positive and fight the virus. Today my reports came negative and I feel his positive energy helped me recover faster.”Sweta Roy, a school teacher from Silchar feels the mental health of Covid-19 patients is not being addressed properly. She recovered from the virus after fighting for two weeks but feels weak mentally. Talking about her experience of listening to Bikarmjit Bauliya, she said, “Music has the power to boost mental strength. But listening to someone live is a different experience. I spoke to him about his works and I feel thankful to people like him.”Bikramjit Kar (Bauliya) supports his father’s medicine business. In his spare time, he supplies medicine and important items to Covid-19 patients. He wants to inspire the young generation. “We can see that the young generation in places like Kolkata, Delhi and other parts of the country are supporting each other in this situation. They are using social media platforms to connect and address the issues faced by victims of Covid-19. I want the young generation in my city to come out and do this. It is our chance to show humanity and a sense of responsibility towards society.”He is also a dog lover. He calls his pet ‘Laleshwar’ which stays with him all the time. He also feeds the street dogs at night and provides them with medical support when they get injured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/assam-folk-singer-sings-over-phone-to-boost-mental-health-of-covid-19-patients-101621677777329.html
22-05-2021||Kolkata||'Won't be able to live without Didi': BJP's Sonali Guha wants to rejoin TMC||Former TMC MLA Sonali Guha, who switched over to the BJP ahead of the elections, on Saturday wrote to Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, apologising to her for leaving the party and urging her to take her back.In the letter, which was shared by Guha on social media, she said that she left the party after being emotional."I am writing this with a broken heart that I took the wrong decision of joining another party after being emotional. I could not get accustomed there," she said."The way a fish cannot stay out of the water, I will not be able to live without you, 'Didi'. I seek your forgiveness and if you don't forgive me, I won't be able to live. Please allow me to come back, and spend the rest of my life in your affection," she added.Guha, a four-time MLA and once considered to be the 'shadow' of the chief minister, was among the slew of TMC leaders who switched over to the BJP ahead of the assembly elections.She was dropped from the TMC's candidates' list this time, following which she left the party after an emotional outburst on TV channels, and joined the BJP.She did not fight the elections, but had said that she would work for strengthening the BJP's organisation.When contacted, Guha said that she felt "unwanted" in the BJP."My decision to join the BJP was a wrong one and I can feel that today. I did not bother to tell the BJP about leaving that party. I always felt unwanted there. They tried to use me and asked me to badmouth Mamata-di. I could not do that," she said.Guha, a former deputy speaker of the state assembly, said she was willing to meet the chief minister to rejoin the TMC."I will personally try to meet 'Didi' but she is the chief minister and must be busy. You cannot expect her to give you time whenever you seek an appointment," she said."I will go to her residence next week on the day when the last rituals of her brother who passed away recently are scheduled and try to talk to her," Guha said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/wont-be-able-to-live-without-didi-bjp-s-sonali-guha-wants-to-rejoin-tmc-101621677327291.html
22-05-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal Pradesh notifies black fungus as epidemic||The Himachal Pradesh government has notified mucormycosis, commonly known as black fungus, as an epidemic for a year after it reported its first such case on Thursday. Issuing the notification under the Epidemic Disease Act, governor Bandaru Dattatreya cited the threat of the outbreak of mucormycosis among immune-compromised Covid-19 patients being treated with steroids in neighbouring states. Also read: Centre asks states to create pool of trained drivers for transporting liquid oxygenAccording to the regulation, all healthcare facilities will follow the guidelines for screening, diagnosis and management of mucormycosis, issued by the Union health ministry and the state government from time to time. They will report every suspected or confirmed case of black fungus to the health department through the chief medical officer (CMO). No person, institution or organisation will spread any information or material for management of mucormycosis without the state health department’s permission. A committee, chaired by the CMO, will be set up in each district. It will have specialists of internal medicine, ophthalmology, ENT and epidemiology as members and will review any disobeying of the notification by any person, institution or organisation. A notice will be issued by the CMO in such a case and the reply will be reviewed by the committee. If it is not received within the stipulated time or if the reply is found unsatisfactory or if it is confirmed that the person/institution/organisation has disobeyed the regulation, the CMO will take necessary action. Any violation of the regulation shall be punishable under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-pradesh-notifies-black-fungus-as-epidemic-101621677298033.html
22-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi court dismisses police plea seeking 5-day custody of Navneet Kalra||A Delhi court on Saturday dismissed police’s plea seeking five-day police custody of businessman Navneet Kalra in connection with the case of alleged hoarding of oxygen concentrators at a restaurant in south Delhi.Advocate Vineet Malhotra appearing for Kalra opposed the plea of Delhi Police seeking further police custody and said Kalra was fully cooperating in the investigation.On Thursday the court observed that police remand of the accused was not warranted in the case pertaining to the alleged hoarding of oxygen concentrators.The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Friday conducted raids at 13 premises linked to Kalra and another businessman Gagan Duggal.The ED team seized 150 foreign brand liquor bottles from Kalra’s residence, officials told Hindustan Times.The ED’s probe, according to two officials, has revealed that both Kalra and Duggal had imported more than 7,000 oxygen concentrators from China in the past one month and sold them at exorbitant rates.The ED registered a case earlier this week to investigate the money trail of sale and purchase of oxygen concentrators and beneficiaries of hoarded concentrators.Earlier on May 7, the Delhi Police had busted an oxygen concentrator black-marketing racket during a raid and seized 105 such concentrators from two upscale restaurants in Delhi's Khan Market area. The two restaurants, namely Khan Chacha and Town Hall, are owned by Kalra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-court-dismisses-police-plea-seeking-5-day-custody-of-navneet-kalra-101621673052294.html
22-05-2021||Other||Chhattisgarh police to question former chief minister over Congress ‘toolkit’||The Chhattisgarh Police have issued a notice to former chief minister Raman Singh asking him to remain at his residence on Monday for questioning for allegedly spreading fake news related to the toolkit, or a social media campaign playbook, that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has claimed was prepared by the Congress to defame Prime Minister Narendra Modi.A case was on Wednesday registered in Raipur in Congress-ruled Chhattisgarh against Singh and other BJP leaders for allegedly promoting enmity by allegedly spreading fake news related to the “toolkit”. It was filed on the complaint of Akash Sharma, the chief of Congress’s student wing National Students’ Union of India in the state, under Indian Penal Code’s Sections including 504 (Intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace). The BJP has alleged the “toolkit” was aimed at building a biased narrative over the Centre’s handling of the second wave of Covid-19, and the Central Vista Project. Many top BJP leaders, including its chief JP Nadda and Union ministers Smriti Irani, Hardeep Puri, Anurag Thakur, Piyush Goyal, amplified tweets about it.The Congress accused the BJP of concocting the document on Covid-19. In a tweet on Tuesday, Congress’s research department head Rajeev Gowda said: “BJP is propagating a fake ‘toolkit’ on ‘Covid-19 mismanagement’ & attributing it to AICC [All India Congress Committee] Research Department. We are filing an FIR [First Information Report] for forgery against @jpnadda & @sambitswaraj When our country is devastated by Covid, instead of providing relief, BJP shamelessly concocts forgeries.”Raipur police superintendent Ajay Yadav cited due process and added the notice has been issued to Singh for questioning him in the case and to get his statement recorded.Police officers, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said they want to question Singh whether the Twitter account @drramansingh belonged to him, where did he get the alleged Congress’s documents from, and about the communication between him and others regarding the use of hashtag “CongressToolkitExposed” on social media.In his complaint, Sharma accused the BJP leaders of forging, fabricating, and manufacturing the documents on the letterhead of the AICC Research Department. It added they were meant to be spread via social media and has “potential of creating communal disharmony, unrest in the country”. He accused the BJP of using the alleged documents “to spread fake news” which has the potential of inciting “violence and fuelling hatred”.The BJP slammed the Congress for registering the case and issuing notice to Singh and called it an attempt to save its face. “The case registered against Raman Singh is completely fake and politically motivated. The Chhattisgarh Police are working under political pressure and hence served the notice,” said Gauri Shankar Srivas, a BJP spokesperson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/chhattisgarh-police-to-question-former-chief-minister-over-congress-toolkit-101621674657027.html
22-05-2021||Other||Odisha groom picked up from pandal after testing positive for Covid-19||The wedding will now be solemnised one month after the test report of the groom comes negative for the virus.A bridegroom in Odisha, who tested positive for Covid-19, was picked up from the marriage mandap moments before he was about to get married, HT has learnt.“The groom has been kept in isolation to prevent the spread of infection. The family members of both the bride and the groom would have to remain in home isolation,” said Sanakhemundi BDO Gayatridatta Nayak.Rajendra Dandia of Daseipur village under Sanakhemundi block of Ganjam had given his throat swab sample for Covid-19 test as per the protocol of the local administration on May 17.When he did not get the test report by May 21, the day of the wedding, he went ahead with the ceremony.However, on Friday morning, his Covid-19 test report came positive for the virus. While he was on the pandal with his bride for the marriage, the BDO, along with local police inspector Tehsildar Srinivas Behera, reached the wedding venue and picked the groom during rituals.The wedding will be solemnised one month after the test report of the groom comes negative for the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/odisha-groom-picked-up-from-pandal-after-testing-positive-for-covid19-101621671536749.html
22-05-2021||Kolkata||Centre provides Y+ security to Bengal MPs||The Centre has provided Y+ security cover to members of Parliament from West Bengal, Sisir Adhikari and Dibyendu Adhikari. Sisir Adhikari defected to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) from the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) ahead of the March-April elections in the state. He is the father of Suvedu Adhikari, the leader of the Opposition in the state assembly. Suvedu Adhikari also switched over to the BJP and defeated chief minister Mamata Banerjee from Nandigram even as the TMC swept back to power by winning 213 out of 292 seats. His brother, Dibyendu Adhikari, is still with the TMC. Soumendu Adhikari, Sisir Adhikari’s third son, has also joined the BJP. “The Y+ security cover would comprise anywhere between 11-16 security personnel drawn from the CRPF [Central Reserve Police Force] depending on the threat assessment,” said an official, requesting anonymity.The Centre earlier this month provided X category security cover of Central Industrial Security Force to 61 BJP lawmakers in West Bengal amid alleged violence against party leaders and workers in the state. With this decision, all newly elected 77 BJP lawmakers were provided security cover by the central forces.Three to five armed commandoes are provided to a protected person under the X category.Suvendu Adhikari has the second highest Z category security cover from the CRPF with a bulletproof vehicle. Over a dozen people were killed in violence that rocked West Bengal after TMC’s victory in the assembly polls. BJP has claimed many of its party workers were killed and blamed TMC workers for attacking them. TMC has maintained the violence took places in areas where the BJP won.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/centre-provides-y-security-to-bengal-mps-101621670817817.html
22-05-2021||Delhi||'Vaccination for 18-44 age group to be halted in Delhi from today,' says Kejriwal; asks govt to ramp up production||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday urged the Centre to increase the quota of Covid-19 vaccine for the national capital as it faces a huge crunch of the shots. Reiterating his appeal, he requested the Centre to import Covid-19 vaccines at a national level instead of leaving it to the states to raise global tenders. The chief minister made four appeals to the Centre to boost vaccine availability in the country as he flagged vaccine crunch in Delhi.The chief minister cited the temporary halt in the vaccination of people in the age group of 18-44 years to flag the shortage of shots in Delhi. He said that the vaccine stocks for the category is over due to which their centres have been shut.Also read: India’s Covid-19 active caseload at over 2.9 million; 8 states contribute 69%Kejriwal further said that Delhi requires 80 lakh vaccine doses per month. “However, we only received 16 lakh vaccine doses for May." He also said that the quota of vaccines for the national capital has further been reduced, and referred to a letter from the Centre that only 8 lakh vaccine doses will be supplied for June."We have administered 50 lakh vaccine doses so far and to vaccinate all the adults in Delhi, around 2.5 crore additional doses are required," Kejriwal said, adding that if this pace continues then it might take more than 30 months to inoculate the adults against the virus.Emphasising the need for vaccines, he said that immunisation is the major tool required to fight against the second and upcoming third wave of the fatal virus.To ramp up the production of and availability of vaccines in the country, Delhi chief minister first recommended Bharat Biotech, the manufacturer of India's homegrown vaccine Covaxin, to share its formula with other companies.He also suggested the government ask the vaccine-producing companies to step up their production on war footing in the next 24 hours.The chief minister urged the government to grant approval to all international vaccines within the next 24 hours without any delay. He also suggested the Centre to grant approval to international vaccine manufacturers to produce vaccines in the country.Also read: Sonia Gandhi writes to Modi over shortage of mucormycosis drugFurther, he reiterated his concern and urged the government to import vaccines at a national level and not let states compete for vaccines in the international market. Kejriwal said states competing with each other for vaccines can harm the global image of the country.He also said that the government will also be able to talk with the international governments and can directly bulk order vaccines through the companies which will aid the inoculation process in India.India has so far administered more than 19.33 crore vaccine doses through over 2.7 million sessions across the country, according to the health ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/cm-kejriwal-appeals-centre-to-increase-covid-19-vaccine-quota-for-delhi-101621669569134.html
22-05-2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand govt issues SOPs to prevent black marketing of black fungus medicine||The Uttarakhand Government has issued Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) to prevent the black marketing of black fungus medicine keeping in view cases of the disease being reported across the country."The Uttarakhand government has issued SOPs for the prevention and black marketing of Amphotericin B, a black fungus medicine, according to the rule. The drug will be available only in dedicated Covid-19 Health Care Center Medical Colleges and only in state government institutions", informed the official release.The government order stated that the medicine for case management, namely, Amphotericin B will only be issued to DCH and medical colleges/institution of state of Uttarakhand, if available and no other private or individual prescription will be entertained.The order stated that the consultant or doctors who requisition these medicines in the aforementioned hospitals will have to request the issuing authority on a prescribed format, duly filled and signed by them and after payment.The requirement of the medicine can be projected anytime during working hours of the government offices, as stated in the release.Also, the request/application for medicine will be sent by the treating doctor's health care institution to the respective issuing authority, i.e., the nodal officers for Kumaon and Garhwal. The Director-General, Medical and Health has nominated two nodal officers, one each for Kumaon and Garhwal divisions, who will be responsible for storage and issue of this medicine for their respective regions.The nodal officers will also ensure that the medicine will be issued on payment to DCH and medical colleges or institutions.The order also mentioned that it is mandatory to deposit the empty vials of used medicine or any unused medicine by the hospital to the nodal officer.On 19 May, 42 cases of Mucormycosis (black fungus) were reported at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Rishikesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/uttarakhand-govt-issues-sops-to-prevent-black-marketing-of-black-fungus-medicine-101621661359577.html
22-05-2021||Other||Chhattisgarh using CM Baghel’s photograph on vaccination certificates for 18-44 age group||After the Chhattisgarh government launched its Covid-19 vaccination portal for the 18-44 age group, the state government is now issuing the vaccination certificates with the photograph of chief minister Bhupesh Baghel. Questions were raised over the photograph of PM Narendra Modi which is on the vaccination certificates issued through the Centre’s CoWin application in the recent past. On May 12, the Chhattisgarh government launched ‘CG Teeka’ Web Portal for systematic vaccination of people in the age group 18-44 years. People with no smartphones or internet facility can also get their registration for Covid-19 vaccination via ‘Help Desks’ established at panchayats, urban bodies, municipal corporations and other places.Chhattisgarh health minister TS Singhdeo said that no one should object to the photograph of CM Baghel because the state government is funding the vaccination of 18-44 age group. “When the Centre is using PM Modi’s photograph for the vaccination certificates, which they are funding, why can’t a state government use the photograph of CM which the state is funding? I don’t think anyone should have any objection,” said Singhdeo. Claiming that the state government is working just for the photo opportunity, BJP spokesperson Gaurishankar Srivas said that this is not the time for photo session and advertisement. “When the people of the state are suffering in the state, the government is working on these photo opportunities which is a shame. The government should work on the ground because people are dying in rural Chhattisgarh,” said Srivas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/chhattisgarh-using-cm-baghel-s-photograph-on-vaccination-certificates-for-18-44-age-group-101621662776082.html
22-05-2021||Mumbai||Navy rushes diving teams to search 26 missing crew members of barge, tugboat||The Indian Navy on Saturday dispatched two specialised diving teams from Mumbai to augment the search for 26 missing crew of a barge and tugboat Varaprada that sank during Cyclone Tauktae on Monday.The teams on board INS Makar, which is also equipped with a side-scan sonar, and INS Tarasa sailed out early morning on Saturday from Mumbai, said commander Mehul Karnik, chief public relations officer of the Western Naval Command. The barge was deployed at an unmanned platform in Heera oil fields, one of the largest ONGC rigs in the Arabian sea. As Cyclone Tauktae hit the Mumbai coast, the barge got de-anchored on Sunday night. The barge sank around 7 pm on Monday in a very choppy sea and rough weather, which made the search and rescue operation one of the most challenging operations undertaken by the Navy in four decades.Afcons Infrastructure, which leads the consortium that chartered the barge and hired its crew, said there were 261 members on board. The barge sank about 40 nautical miles west off Mumbai.The Navy and the Coastguard have so far rescued 286 barge crew members and recovered 60 bodies. The search is going on for the remaining 15.On Monday afternoon, INS Kolkata rescued two crew members of the tugboat, Varaprada. Varaprada too is believed to have sunk during the cyclone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/navy-rushes-diving-teams-to-search-26-missing-crew-members-of-barge-tugboat-101621659895903.html
22-05-2021||Bhopal||After 21 years, Madhya Pradesh police book warehouse manager for stealing farmer’s crop||The Madhya Pradesh police have completed a probe into the theft of 471 sacks of dry coriander from a government warehouse in Guna district and registered a case 21 years after Bherulal Sahu, a farmer 55, filed his complaint about it.Sahu had accused the warehouse manager, Vijay Kumar Agrawal, of allegedly stealing the sacks in December 1999 and selling them for ₹4.5 lakh. “I owned 12 bigha land in 1999 and had taken some 6-7 bigha on rent. My father-in-law and I stored 471 sacks of coriander at the warehouse in Binaganj in May 1999. I had taken a loan of ₹1 lakh from a trader to whom I was introduced by Agrawal. Against the loan, I mortgaged about 100 sacks of the crop.” Sahu added in December 1999, when he went to collect his crop to sell it, he came to know that Agrawal sold all the sacks by allegedly using his forged signature. “After struggling for four months to get my crop back or money, I lodged a police complaint,” said Sahu.Sahu said he filed the theft and fraud complaint at Binaganj police station in April 2000. “I had to sell my 2.5 bigha land to pay my crop loan and rent of farmland. I urged former chief ministers Digvijaya Singh, Uma Bharti, Babulal Gaur, and Kamal Nath to help me and sought justice but nothing happened. I approached chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan too many times, but he also could not help me.”Sahu said he met Agrawal many times to get his money back, but he was not ready to do so. “In 2015, he offered me ₹2 lakh to end the case but after 15 years, it had become a fight for pride and against the breach of trust. I have met at least 15 superintendents of police of Guna, and they always said the matter is being investigated.”In February, when Rajeev Mishra took over as the Guna police superintendent, he reviewed all the pending cases and got to know about Sahu’s pending case. “Mishra asked Binagaj police to investigate the matter and after four months, I finally won a long battle to have the case registered,” Sahu said.Mishra said the case was registered on Thursday against Agarwal of the Madhya Pradesh Warehouse Corporation under Indian Penal Code’s Sections 420 (fraud), 409 (criminal breach of trust by public servant), 467 (forgery of valuable security), and 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating).“I have also ordered an inquiry into the delay of more than two decades in registering the case,” said Mishra.Despite repeated attempts, Agrawal could not be contacted for comments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/after-21-years-madhya-pradesh-police-book-warehouse-manager-for-stealing-farmer-s-crop-101621659355824.html
22-05-2021||Other||Over 30 die in Haryana village, officials insist only 4 died of Covid-19||Yoginder, 29, and his brother, Bhupinder, 34, were among the residents of Titoli village in Haryana’s Rohtak district who took ill with Covid-19 symptoms in April. They fell back on faith and started organising havans to ward off the evil that they thought was causing them fever en masse in the absence of any testing facilities. With no respite in sight, a local chemist prescribed Bhupinder paracetamol as his fever worsened. The situation kept getting from bad to worse for him as two residents died on the same day in the village on April 22 after having a fever for over three days. The following day, the brothers went to see Pramod Kumar, a local physician as they also now developed cough and body ache. Kumar too prescribed paracetamol. Over the next few days, over 20 people died in the village and yet there was no testing.Finally, on April 24, Kumar asked Bhupinder, who was now barely able to walk, to get tested, start taking antibiotics and isolate himself as more people died without getting tested in the village. In the middle of the following night, Bhupinder began gasping for breath and could not walk anymore, setting alarm bells ringing among his family members. Yoginder, who had a mild fever, drove his brother to a hospital in Jhajjar, over 50 km away, where doctors asked them to get tested for Covid before admission. Bhupinder struggled to breathe on the back seat of his car as he had to wait till late afternoon to get tested. As the two were told they would get their reports two days later, Yoginder rushed Bhupinder back to the hospital, where doctors insisted on a Covid positive report to start treating them.A doctor suggested a nebuliser, but it was not available either in Totoli or Jhajjar before a cousin of theirs managed to borrow it from a friend. Nebuliser brought some relief as Bhupinder could breathe better now but now Yoginder’s condition worsened. A desperate Yoginder drove his brother 124 kilometres to Faridabad as his condition again worsened. A doctor examined Bhupinder and told Yoginder he immediately needed to be put on ventilator support even as no beds were available. They will get a bed if someone dies and vacates one, the brothers were told.Bhupinder now started turning pale and could not talk anymore even as the family managed to get a five-litre oxygen cylinder, 159 kilometres away in Bhiwani. Midway to Bhiwani, a cousin of Bhupinder and Yoginder joined them with oxygen cans. Bhupinder now began tossing and turning as Yoginder desperately pumped the oxygen. In Bhiwani too, they were unable to find a ventilator bed. Another member of the family rushed back to Faridabad but by the time he reached there, a vacant hospital bed they were promised was occupied by someone else by then. The family was left with no choice but to bring Bhupinder back to their village with two oxygen cylinders. They again began the search for a hospital bed on April 28 and were denied admission to the Jhajjar hospital as Bhupinder’s condition worsened despite getting a high flow of oxygen. He could no longer recognise his brother even as Bhupinder finally managed to get ventilator support at a nearby hospital following the death of a patient. Yoginder, meanwhile, started suffocating. Bhupinder, the father of a 12-year-old daughter, died the following day and Yoginder was now put on the same ventilator support, but he too lost the battle for life three days later.Authorities in Rohtak acknowledged that over 30 people died in the Titoli village in just a few days after developing fever while insisting they did not have Covid. District information officer Sanjeev Saini said there were just four Covid related deaths in the village as per the chief medical officer’s report even as most people who died never got tested and the village was sealed last week.Block development officer (Titoli) Raj Pal said the deaths were sudden but largely they included people who were suffering from diabetes and other diseases too. “Though the testing earlier was not much available, after May 1, we have ramped it up in the village,” Pal said. He too maintained just four people have died of Covid in the village of around 12,000 people.Chandrakant Lahariya, a public health expert, said honest reporting of Covid deaths and cases can make people more cautious and help check of carelessness and thus exposure to the virus. He added the baseline mortality, or the average number of people dying normally in a year is seven in every 1,000 people. “Therefore, in a population of 12,000, there should generally be not more than 84 deaths in a year or seven in a month. However, in the case of Titoli around 30 deaths had taken place in less than a month,” he said. “This is a clear indication that most people have not died a normal death. At a time, when the country is struck with a ravaging pandemic, there is every possibility that these deaths have mostly taken place because of Covid,” Lahariya said.He added deaths of people under 60 falls under the preventable mortality category. “Many of those lives could have been saved if the disease was diagnosed at an early stage and medical intervention was done,” Lahariya said. “Avoiding or hiding the actual figures does nothing more than worsening the situation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/over-30-die-in-haryana-village-officials-insist-only-4-died-of-covid19-101621657015590.html
22-05-2021||Chandigarh||Reset policy to tackle Covid-19 effectively||When Covid-19 alarm bells rang in early 2020, individually and institutionally, we were groping in the dark. The information asymmetry was plugged as more research-based data emerged. As the first wave waned, false and unscientific narratives and policy inaction lulled us into complacency. Eventually, the inevitable second wave caused unimaginable human and economic catastrophe in the country. Thus, it is pertinent to analyse our approach, or the lack of it, which is responsible for the current state of affairs. At the outset, there has been an unequivocal failure in discharge of constitutional duties, protection of fundamental rights of citizens and the abdication of governance by the central and the state governments alike. Therefore, the courts have been forced to assume normal executive functions. This must challenge the executive to have a rethink about the efficacy of its functioning. In tackling Covid-19, the centralised top-down approach has worked neither at the national nor at the state level. Valuable time was lost in the micro-management of policies that resulted in preventable casualties. Numerous faults could be listed in the approach adopted hitherto but our endeavour at individual, societal, state and national level is to equip ourselves better for future waves. Vaccine procurement should be with Centre The amended vaccine procurement policy needs to be abandoned in favour of the previous single-point procurement by the Centre. The differential pricing policy is arbitrary and must go. Formulation of policies, after a consultative process with the states, with respect to time-bound universal vaccination; streamlined single-point vaccination procurement at the national and international levels; and ensuring adequate supply of oxygen should be the domain of the central government. Floating global tenders by states is no assurance for supply of vaccines. The financial capacities of states do not inspire confidence among international vaccine producers and their negotiation skills don’t match with the central government. Thus, the Centre is most suitable to procure from abroad and at home. The whole financial burden, like pulse polio, needs to be borne by the Union government as the precarious financial position of many states could make them falter and impede universal vaccination. A realistic assessment about the demand and supply of vaccines is a pre-requisite for a vaccination plan to blunt the impact of the second and coming waves. India administered 19.19 crore doses till the morning of May 21, 2021. Only 3.05% of the population has received the second dose. The Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech have promised to ramp up vaccine production in the coming months but to what extent that is possible remains to be seen. If we are to vaccinate 85 crore people, who are above 18, in one year, then we need roughly 12.57 crore doses a month, (after accounting for 19.19 crore doses), with approximately 41.32 lakh doses administered daily against an average of 15.35 lakh achieved till May 21. It is a tall order. Any rollout plan would depend upon the capacity utilisation of producers and import tie-ups. Thus, the formulated policy ought to inform the citizens of vaccination timelines for fully vaccinating 140 crore people. Empowered task forces for region-based surveillance Considering the magnitude of the disease and size of the country, it is imperative to have cross-jurisdictional region-based surveillance for geographically contiguous areas. Thus, five national-level empowered task forces (ETFs), comprising virologists, vaccinologists, epidemiologists, government officials, and other experts for five regions, namely north, south, east and northeast, central and west India need to be constituted. These ETFs, fully empowered, will ensure the implementation and harmonisation of the national strategy taking into account specific needs of any state. Each ETF will coordinate with a similar ETF constituted at the state level. Issues of regional relevance would be resolved at the level of the relevant regional ETF and only the most contentious issues could go to a national committee, headed by the Prime Minister, comprising ministers concerned, senior secretaries, leaders from pharmaceutical companies and industry. Each state may be divided into regions, each under a group of senior officials, experts, and representatives from medical associations. Mapping of all resources from hospital beds, medicines and logistics at the state, region and zone levels is a pre-requisite. The potential of urban and rural local bodies needs to be utilised adequately. They have more reliable information on the spread of the disease, possess an effective communication network, are better placed to rope in local NGOs and are better equipped to mobilise local resources. Transparency and communicationCities with municipal corporations need to be divided into optimum number of zones, each under a dedicated group led by a senior officer and comprising medical specialists, elected municipal councillors and representatives from hospitals. Other municipal areas, and each block in rural areas, can work as a single zone under a similar dedicated group. These dedicated groups can be empowered to requisition hospital beds and ambulances under their jurisdiction whenever needed. All data about available hospital beds, ambulances, oxygen and medicines should be put on a public portal of each zone. It is time for the ministers and chief ministers to lead from the front. Let each minister, in charge of one or more districts, sit at the district headquarters to coordinate this fight. Transparency and communication with public, missing so far, will enhance credibility and bulwark against growing pessimism among citizens. We need to redirect ourselves towards our strengths instead of political bickering at the common citizens’ cost. The writer is a retired additional chief secretary of Punjab. Views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/reset-policy-to-tackle-covid-19-effectively-101621656415613.html
22-05-2021||Bhopal||Row after Kamal Nath says he has clips of 2019 honey trap scandal||Bhopal Madhya Pradesh Congress Committee president and former chief minister Kamal Nath’s comment on Thursday that he has in his possession a pen drive of videos from 2019’s honey trap scandal, in the state, set off a political storm in Madhya Pradesh with the Bharatiya Janata Party on Friday accusing him of impropriety.On Thursday, after some Congress MLAs raised the issue of FIR against former forest minister and Congress MLA Umang Singhar in the case of suicide of a 40-year-old woman, and accused the state government of dirty politics, Nath said he still had a pen drive of the honey trap scandal but that he believed in doing decent politics.Responding to this, BJP state president VD Sharma said, “Kamal Nath is blackmailing the state government but he should first reveal from where he got the pen drive. He misused the government machinery when he was the CM. If he has proof against any politician or officer, why did he not take any action...”On Friday, Nath offered an explanation: “Many journalists and others have a pen drive of the honey trap scandal. It was first on pen drive, the matter went to police and court later.”In 2019, it emerged that a gang of five women and a men were blackmailing some bureaucrats and politicians using sex tapes shot without their knowledge. The names of the politicians ensnared in the case have not been made public to date.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/row-after-kamal-nath-says-he-has-clips-of-2019-honey-trap-scandal-101621642881269.html
22-05-2021||Chandigarh||Ram Rahim gets parole to meet ailing mother||Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh, who is undergoing a 20-year jail sentence for raping two followers, was granted parole on Friday to look after his ailing mother, a senior prison official said.The official denied to comment on how long the parole was. “...Every prisoner has a right to get parole and it was granted after taking feedback from administration and the police. We gave him a day-long parole last year too,” the official said.Singh, who has been taken to Gurugram to meet his mother amid heavy police security, had sought parole four days ago.Last year on October 24 too, the Dera Sacha Sauda chief was given a day’s paroleto meet his mother.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ram-rahim-gets-parole-to-meet-ailing-mother-101621641162321.html
22-05-2021||Delhi||IGST on personal O2 concentrators unconstitutional, says Delhi high court||The Delhi high court on Friday said the imposition of 12% Integrated Goods and Service Tax (IGST) on oxygen concentrators for personal use or those received as gifts is “unconstitutional”.A bench of justices Rajiv Shakdher and Talwant Singh said this is a George Floyd moment for the citizens of the country in a different setting where several of them were gasping for breath due to the shortage of medical oxygen.“The refrain is I can’t breathe, albeit, in a somewhat different context and setting; although in circumstances, some would say, vastly more horrifying and ghastlier. Chased and driven by the merciless novel coronavirus, the citizenry has been driven to desperation and despair,” the bench said.Quashing the May 1 notification by the Union finance ministry imposing 12% IGST on concentrators imported for personal use, irrespective of whether they are a gift or otherwise, the court said that the “virus has brought out the best and worst in people”.Also Read| ‘Those importing O2 devices can afford 12% IGST’: Centre tells Delhi HC“….We have messiahs. We have charlatans. We have hoarders. We have seen a kind and caring hand being struck out by strangers when they could have remained cocooned in the safety of their houses. Bravehearts, there are many; doctors, nurses, and personnel manning public institutions….,” the court noted in its 33-page order.The judgment came on a plea filed by advocate Siddharth Bambha for an 85-year-old Covid-19 patient who challenged 12% IGST being levied on oxygen concentrators after his nephew sent him the equipment as a gift from the US.To check the misuse of the oxygen concentrators being put to commercial purpose, the court said individuals importing concentrators for personal use or as gift, will have to furnish a letter of undertaking to the officer designated by the Centre that the device was not for commercial use.“Till such time an officer is designated by the State, it would be in order, if the importer were to address the undertaking to the joint secretary, customs and/or his/her nominee and handover the same to the officer detailed at the customs barrier,” the court said.Pursuant to the filing of the petition, the finance ministry issued a notification on May 3 exempting IGST on oxygen concentrators coming as donation or gifts for the state government or if procured through a canalizing agency. However, individuals were not included in the list for exemption.Also Read| QR-code system to regulate distribution of O2 devices in DelhiSenior advocate Sudhir Nandrajog along with advocate Bambha for the petitioners argued that such distinction was violative of the Constitution.The court agreed and said that such distinction is “arbitrary”, “unreasonable” and in violation of Article 14 of the Constitution.The Centre, in its affidavit, argued that any person importing concentrator for personal use or has sources for receiving such supplies in gifts will be in a better position to afford the nominal 12% IGST as compared to others who source it through commercial channels.The Centre said imposition of tax or deciding rates does not come under judicial review. It said that if the argument of the petitioner is accepted, then it will lead to absurd consequences and interpretations, wherein citizens will be seeking exemption from property tax, since housing is an essential facet of the right to life under Article 21 of the Constitution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/igst-on-personal-o2-concentrators-unconstitutional-says-delhi-high-court-101621634409549.html
22-05-2021||Delhi||NDMC hikes licensing fee for shops given on rent by 10%||The New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) has hiked the licensing fees for shops given on rent by 10% from April 1, attracting criticism from traders who said the decision was taken when businesses were already reeling under the effects of the lockdown and pandemic.Last year ,too, NDMC decided to hike this fee, but the decision was rolled back following objections from the traders.NDMC officials said licence fee or rent is charged each month from around 4,000 shops, which have been given on rent in prominent markets in the New Delhi area.A senior NDMC official said licence fee or rent is revised every two years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/ndmc-hikes-licensing-fee-for-shops-given-on-rent-by-10-101621634506573.html
22-05-2021||Delhi||Families homeless after rain floods over 25 hutments||Several tenements on the floodplains of the Yamuna near east Delhi’s Mayur Vihar have been inundated in incessant rain over the past two days, rendering over 25 families homeless. Locals alleged that mounds of soil and concrete waste, dumped on the floodplains this February, exacerbated the flooding.Environment activists had raised the alarm about the dumping of soil in the area in February itself. Activists had alleged that the central public works department (CPWD), undertaking the construction of the new Parliament building using private developers, had been allowing the dumping of construction waste — including debris and soil from the site on the floodplains — in violation of an order of the National Green Tribunal (NGT).CPWD officials had, however, denied the allegations back in February. When Hindustan Times reached out to CPWD on Friday, officials refused to respond.“Nearly 25 houses got flooded over the past two days. The situation has been aggravated by the mounds of mud and waste dumped there. A lake of sorts has formed amid the mounds and the hutments are right in the middle of the lake,” said Dev Pal, a local resident and field researcher for citizens’ group, Housing and Land Rights Network, which had filed a petition against the dumping in the area in February. While dumping has been put on hold since February, their fears of flooding have come true, said residents.“We had feared that houses will be inundated in the event of heavy rain. Our fears have come true,” said Pal, who added that people living in the area were worried about their houses getting buried under the sand mounds and were seeking rehabilitation. “Nearly 70 families are affected by all this and nearly 25 of them have been rendered homeless by the flooding. If no steps are taken, the crisis will be much worse during the coming monsoon,” said Pal.The 25 families are now living on the road till the flood water recedes. “Water has accumulated in our homes and about 60-70 people are affected. There has been no respite from the rain since Tuesday. We are struggling to get in and out of our homes,” said Meena, who goes by her first name, and has been living in the area for the past 26 years.She said residents like her only want to be rehabilitated to a safe and secure place by the authorities. “During the day, we move to the main road with charpoys and live there. The nights are more difficult. The soil mounds and water have mixed and there is slush all around us,” said Meena.Delhi Development Authority did not comment on the flooding issue nor on the residents’ demand for rehabilitation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/families-homeless-after-rain-floods-over-25-hutments-101621634584973.html
22-05-2021||City||QR-code system to regulate distribution of O2 devices in Delhi||The Dialogue and Development Commission (DDC), a think tank of the Delhi government, has developed a QR code-based system to regulate the distribution of oxygen concentrators to various Delhi government hospitals. The organisation has so far coordinated the distribution of more than 2,300 such concentrators, said DDC vice-chairperson Jasmine Shah.Another 1,700 oxygen concentrators and 100 ventilators are in the process of being supplied, said the government in a press statement.Shah said, “Several donors have come forward to give critical medical supplies. At the same time, the donors were keen to ensure that these equipment were used efficiently. To address this concern, DDC collaborated with the Boston Consulting Group and Blowhorn, a logistics start-up working on a voluntary basis, to develop a state-of-the-art QR code based tracking system.”He added: “The streamlined process involves the checking of medical equipment received from donors, attaching a unique QR code, and then supplying them to various hospitals as per their needs. At each step of the process, the QR code can be scanned to track the location as well as usage patterns of these machines.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/qrcode-system-to-regulate-distribution-of-o2-devices-in-delhi-101621634700389.html
22-05-2021||Delhi||Over 800k migrants left Delhi after lockdown announced: Govt||At least 800,000 migrant workers travelled from Delhi to their home states in the first four weeks of lockdown in the Capital, nearly half of them in the first week, a report by the Delhi government said, highlighting that buses and other arrangements were made for labourers to avoid a repeat of last year’s crisis.Between April 19, when the lockdown was imposed to arrest a crushing fourth wave of infections, and May 14, 807,032 passengers took buses from three interstate bus terminals (ISBTs) in Delhi to go to other states. These buses were arranged by the governments of Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand specially for migrant workers in addition to the daily buses plying from the terminals.“The timely coordination with transport authorities of neighbouring states especially Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand by the Delhi government has helped about eight lakh migrant workers reach their destination without any difficulty. There was no complaint of overcharging as the interstate buses were owned and operated by the respective state governments,” read the report by the state transport department.On April 19, a weekend curfew in Delhi was turned into a full lockdown for six days. At the time, the city was clocking roughly an average of 20,000 cases a day, nearly every third person tested returned a positive result , and hospitals were overrun with patients, and fast running out of oxygen and key drugs. Since then, the lockdown has been extended four times even as daily infections and positivity rates have plunged.Also Read| Covid-19 cases down, Delhi begins preparations for third waveWhile announcing the lockdown, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal appealed to migrant workers to not leave the city and assured them that the government will take care of them. Soon after, migrants started gathering at the three ISBTs at Kashmere Gate, Sarai Kale Khan and Anand Vihar.But unlike last year -- when a nationwide lockdown on March 25 prompted tens of thousands of panicked workers to throng ISBTs and wait for 12-16 hours for a bus, or walk hundreds of kilometres back home -- Delhi government officials had negotiated bus arrangements beforehand with other state governments, especially Uttar Pradesh.“The situation was better handled this time and there was visibly less crowding at ISBTs, especially in Anand Vihar, because of better coordination with Delhi Police, proper ground management by the concerned district magistrates and timely coordination with neighbouring states. We also are still offering free meals to anyone who walks up to our hunger relief centres. The UPSRTC [UP state road transport corporation] also played a very proactive role this time and deployed a huge number of buses as soon as the lockdown in Delhi was announced. So, things were planned in advance this time,” said state transport minister Kailash Gahlot.To be sure, there are no current estimates to indicate how many migrants have returned to the Capital because the lockdown is still in effect.Nearly half of the total - 379,604 passengers - left during the first week of the lockdown. In the following weeks, the number of passengers gradually declined to 212,448 (second week), 122,490 (third week) and 92,490 (fourth week), said the report. It also stated that within the city, Delhi Transport Corportation (DTC) and cluster buses facilitated 827,905 passengers to be dropped at the ISBTs and railway stations. To be sure, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority allowed movement of people travelling through ISBT, airports and railway stations during the ongoing lockdown.Also Read| Covid-19: Delhi makes new tracing push with revised targetsAt least 21,879 trips were made by buses, of which 8,074 were carried out in the first week. Additional government data showed a majority of the passengers travelled to Uttar Pradesh, which operated 17,762 additional buses from Anand Vihar and Kaushambi ISBTs. These two bus terminals are located along the Delhi-UP border; Anand Vihar falls under the Delhi government’s jurisdiction and Kaushambi is with the UP administration. The Anand Vihar and Kaushambi terminals alone handled the 689,642 passengers during the four weeks.Uttarakhand also deployed additional 2,000-3,000 buses. Haryana, Punjab and Bihar administrations did not deploy any additional buses.Gahlot said last year, rumours of special UP government buses forced thousands of migrants to gather overnight at Anand Vihar, but transport properly began only after 12 hours, by when the crowd had swelled to almost a kilometre.Dheeraj Sahu, UP transport commissioner and managing director of UPSRTC, said on the first day of the lockdown in Delhi this year, the state transport unit arranged for at least 5,000 additional trips from Anand Vihar and Kaushambi. He said the UPSRTC pulled three-fourth of its buses from western UP and diverted them to Anand Vihar for migrant workers.“We arranged everything in a very short notice. As soon as the Delhi government informed us about the lockdown, we called a high-level meeting at Lucknow, and it was decided that UPSRTC should put all its might in transporting people from Anand Vihar and Kaushambi so that we do not see a repeat of what happened last year. It was decided that UPSRTC will deploy additional buses for migrant workers apart from the usual 1,000 buses operated per day from these points. Almost three-fourth of all our buses operating in the western UP region were pressed to service at Anand Vihar and Kaushambi,” Sahu said.The Delhi government report said that this time, the crowd was also lower because trains were operational, unlike the last lockdown when railway stations were shut. “Yet, buses are the first choice of migrant workers because it is slightly cheaper and it is more accessible to their home villages than a railway station,” said a senior transport official. Last year, trains for migrant workers were started only after a month of lockdown on May 1.HT tried to find similar passenger data from last year, but the transport department said such a record was not available because in 2020, all forms of transport were prohibited during the nationwide lockdown.The state also arranged 500 cluster buses to ferry workers from Delhi to far-flung places in neighbouring states.The buses didn’t have any restriction on who could board them but officials said the high number of outward trips in the first week coupled with the lockdown -- which discouraged non-emergency travel -- meant that an overwhelming majority of those travelling were migrants.“The report states the number of passengers who boarded interstate buses from Delhi including the additional buses deployed by various states. The weekly break-up of the same shows that the demand for such transport services was highest during the first week, indicating it is mostly migrant workers and their families who were using these buses to reach their villages,” a second transport department official said.Debolina Kundu, professor at the national institute of urban affairs, said, the governments should not only prepare healthcare facilities for the potential third wave, but also provide adequate facilities for the migrant workers to avert a mass exodus."Experts have already warned of a third wave, so to avoid similar migrant issues from cropping up the governments need to ensure three basic things before imposing a lockdown again - a place to live, a social security from the government in the form of financial assistance and free rations irrespective of identity proof. Most of the migrant workers in Delhi have no option but to leave because they are tenants and live on rent. Affordable rental housing complexes, announced by the central government should be created expeditiously to ensure they have a place to live on such occasions. They must be given some free ration and employment guarantee. But, these measures should come a little ahead of the announcement of the lockdown, so that the workers have some confidence in the system and do not leave the city," said Kundu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/over-800k-migrants-left-delhi-after-lockdown-announced-govt-101621636995573.html
22-05-2021||Delhi||SN Shrivastava formally given charge as commissioner of Delhi Police||The ministry of home affairs (MHA) on Friday appointed SN Shrivastava as Delhi’s police commissioner, a position he has been holding since February 28 last year, in what appeared to be an administrative formality.“With the approval of Competent Authority, SN Shrivastava, IPS (UT cadre: 1985 batch), presently holding the additional charge of Commissioner of Police, Delhi is hereby appointed to the post of Commissioner of Police, Delhi with effect from the date of assumption of the charge of the post and until further orders,” the MHA order said.Shrivastava was brought to Delhi Police, his parent police department, last year from the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) after communal riots in the Capital broke out amid protests at several places against the Citizenship Amendment Act, 2019. The controversial act, brought by the Centre, offers to give Indian citizenship to minorities from Bangladesh, Pakistan and Afghanistan.Shrivastava had earlier headed key units of Delhi Police, including the special cell and traffic.In the last 14 months under his command, Delhi Police has filed multiple charge sheets in the Delhi riots case, and he has handled the police force through the difficult Covid-19 pandemic, when the role of the force has expanded beyond its primary role of crime-fighting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/sn-shrivastava-formally-given-charge-as-commissioner-of-delhi-police-101621628920662.html
22-05-2021||Delhi||More birds and animals make Delhi’s 7 nature parks their homes||Nestled away from Delhi’s long traffic snarls and high-rise buildings are lush green pockets of carefully planned nature parks that are helping maintain the ecological balance of the national capital. As the world celebrates International Day for Biodiversity on Saturday, it’s relevant to put the spotlight on how seven biodiversity parks in the city not only maintain green cover, but also make an important contribution in increasing the counts of birds and animals.Delhi is home to the Yamuna Biodiversity Park, Aravalli Biodiversity Park, Neela Hauz Biodiversity Park, Tilpath Valley Biodiversity Park, Northern Ridge (Kamla Nehru Ridge), Tughlaqabad Biodiversity Park, and Kalindi Biodiversity Park.Data from each of these parks show that, since their inception, the count of species within them has spiked.Faiyaz A Khudsar, scientist-in-charge at the Yamuna Biodiversity Park, which came up in 2002, said, “The Delhi Development Authority’s biodiversity parks have assumed global importance as models for replication. They not only help conserve the vanishing natural heritage from urban centres but also serve many more functions, such as serving as vegetation filters for non-point source air pollutants, imparting resilience to climate change, enhancing water availability to the city and providing cultural, conservational and educational services.”Data showed that in the Yamuna Biodiversity Park, which is spread across 184 hectares, the count of terrestrial plants increased from 90 in 2002 to 915 in 2020. The count of mammals in the park went up from just four to 22, butterflies increased from 11 to 82; number of fishes increased from nil to 18, and the number of aquatic plants went up from two to 101 last year. The bird species count increased from 37 in 2002 to 203 in 2020.In 2016, the park also saw the arrival of a leopard.The ecology at the 280-hectare Aravalli Biodiversity Park is no different. When the park was established in 2005, it had 150 species of terrestrial plants, which increased to 950 in 2020, and the count of mammals went up from five to 19 in the same period.Data also showed that the number of butterflies went up from 13 in 2005 to 113 last year, and the number of birds increased from 42 to 209.CR Babu, who heads the biodiversity parks project of Centre for Environmental Management of Degraded Ecosystems (CEMDE) at Delhi University, said that these parks are nature reserves, which harbour natural heritage and have functions such as carbon sequestration — a process in which carbon dioxide is removed from the atmosphere and stored in the plant body and soil, recharging groundwater and controlling the micro climate of an area, among others.“Over the next few years, we will undertake more studies to find out how these parks are functioning. This will help us get important information, such as the amount of carbon they are able to sequester and whether they are able to recharge groundwater levels and control local temperature,” Babu said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/more-birds-and-animals-make-delhi-s-7-nature-parks-their-homes-101621628814019.html
22-05-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: Kailash Colony’s actor-cum-poet||While Delhi passes through one of its most tragic times in living history, it has citizens distilling their experiences into art.Isolated within home in Kailash Colony, actor Siddharth Sethi, 20, is away from fellow actors and rehearsals, away from the audience and the stage. “Theatre was my escape into a reality other than mine,” he says on a WhatsApp video chat. With the city in lockdown, he is flailing about in only one reality.This reality too is rich, comprising of his “dada,” parents, and younger sister, Suhani, who is holding his mobile for this photo shoot. There are online classes to stay busy—Mr Sethi is a literature student in Delhi University’s Hansraj College. Plus, he recently acted in two plays performed on zoom; the virtual audience were encouraging college mates and folks from DU’s “theatre circuit.” He also penned a poem in the ongoing isolation “as a let out to reassure myself that this too shall pass.” Mr Sethi chose an uncommon word for the title. We won’t give away its meaning. Go and flip through your heirloom dictionary or read the poem.KadotaThis fire burns my bellyThe cries mar my sleepThese silences give me shiversThe spirits wound me deepAway from the chains of my beingMy freedoms lure me strong,Rotting in my sickness, desolateI struggle every breath,I struggle to belong,But not any more.My skies crave my warmthMy seas swallow my desiresThese thorns on my skin, thrive on my memoriesMy pains suck my soul, they loathe my fallacious attire.My fears conspire against meWith the evils that reside in my eyesMy sanity give me shiversMy truths worship my liesBut not any more.My boundaries set my lengthsMy eternity fiddles with my hopeMy touch, longs for a ventMy sighs, my desires grope.Barren deserts mock my stories,With glee, they imitate my tears,The storms sing me lullabyThe tot within though,Restless it appears.But not any more.My chest enthrones my past;With pride, with power, with careMy touch comforts my soulOn my body, my scars lay bare.I’m struggling, for the good I believeFor I’m struggling for myself,against myselfTo be who I am, and not who I am.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-kailash-colony-s-actorcumpoet-101621627859242.html
22-05-2021||Chandigarh||Infant’s death: Dispute redressal commission asks Ludhiana hospital to pay ₹35 lakh||Holding a city-based private hospital guilty of gross medical negligence following the death of an infant, a day after its birth in 2016, the State Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission has directed the hospital and insurance company to jointly pay ₹35 lakh as compensation. In addition to the compensation, Handa Hospital, Civil Lines, where Dr Pratibha Handa, was the gynaecologist on duty and Dr Pradeep Handa, the paediatrician, will have to pay ₹33,000 as litigation expenses to the complainant, Pulkit Kapoor, and her husband Karan Kapoor on account of “sudden loss of newly born child because of sheer medical negligence as well as the resultant loss of love and affection of the child, mental agony, harassment, and avoidable pain and suffering caused to the complainants.”While pronouncing the judgment, justice Paramjit Singh Dhaliwal, president, State Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission observed that during each visit between November 27 to July 26, 2016, the complainants were informed that the mother and baby were fine, without any complications and there would be hassle free normal delivery. Initially, the expected date of delivery was July 26, 2016 but the same was later changed to August 3, without explaining the reason. Caesarean section delivery was neither required nor suggested.What happened? “After complainant developed labour pains on July 26, 2016, she was taken to Handa Hospital at 2pm. However, despite repeated requests, she was examined by Dr Pratibha only at 4.30pm. She was told to tolerate the pain and her pulse rate, blood pressure, or foetal heart rate were not monitored. She was also not allowed to meet her husband,” Bhavnik Mehta, the complainants’ counsel said. “It was only at 10.20pm, over six hours after first check up that Dr Pratibha came to attend the complainant. After a cursory examination, she noticed that the baby had passed meconium (stool). She informed complainant that the baby was in distress, due to which emergency caesarean operation would have to be performed. Thereafter, she went away, without addressing the concerns of the complainants and did not show any professionalism, sensitivity and empathy,” said the order.The caesarean section was performed and the baby was delivered at 11.04 pm.The complainant requested the paediatrician to arrange an ambulance from DMC Hospital, but Dr Pradeep took the baby in his private car. The mother was not allowed to accompany the baby. Dr Pradeep told her that he had put a breathing tube in the baby’s throat and that he would send his ward boy. There was no other equipment in the car. The baby had turned blue (cyanosed), was cold and was breathing occasionally by the time he reached DMC Hospital. The doctors at DMC Hospital said the baby was critically ill, because of lack of oxygen in his system and it had caused irreparable damage to the brain system. In all, ₹1,25,000 was spent on treatment of the child but it was declared dead at 9.30pm on July 27, 2016.The order Although, the loss suffered by the complainants due to deficiency in service and medical negligence cannot be compensated in terms of money, yet in view of the totality of facts and circumstances of the case, we award lump sum compensation of ₹35 lakh to the complainants along with interest at the rate of 8% per annum from the date of filing of the complaint till realisation, the order said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/infants-death-dispute-redressal-commission-asks-ludhiana-hospital-to-pay-35-lakh-101621631693274.html
22-05-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana’s positivity rate comes down by 15% in 12 days||Twelve days of lockdown-like restrictions in Ludhiana have caused the district’s positivity rate to drop by 15%, slightly alleviating its burgeoning coronavirus caseload. For the first time in 30 days, 687 fresh coronavirus cases were reported in the district against at least 700 daily cases over the last fortnight and the positivity rate dropped to 6.7% from 22%. The district had last recorded 685 cases on April 18. There are now 9,988 active patients in the district. This is the first time in 18 days that the number of active cases has fallen below 10,000. So far, 79,839 people have tested positive for the virus in the district.The district also reported 23 fatalities, of which seven were in their 50s and 60s, three were in their 40s and four were in their 70s. The youngest person to be claimed by the virus was a 26-year-old resident of Jamalpur. Of the deceased, 13 were men and 10 were women. The district’s death toll has touched 1,837 and the fatality rate 2.3%.FICO to organise vaccination drive at subsidised ratesThe Federation of Industrial and Commercial Organisation (FICO) will organise a vaccination drive for its staff and employees of its members at subsidised rates. For all member industrial units with an employee strength less than 100, FICO will organise a special vaccination drive at FICO secretariat, Jaimal Road, Janta Nagar, Ludhiana. Each dose will cost ₹430, of which FICO will contribute ₹131 and the member unit will contribute ₹299.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhianas-positivity-rate-comes-down-by-15-in-12-days-101621631393711.html
22-05-2021||Chandigarh||Cache of arms, ammo recovered from gangster Jaipal Bhullar’s accomplices, 6 held||Six people were arrested on Friday for helping gangster Jaipal Bhullar and his three aides, who are wanted for the killing of two assistant sub-inspectors, evade arrest. Two of the accused, Gurpreet Singh alias Lucky and Ramanpreet Kaur alias Raman, were arrested from Boparai Gate, while Satpal Kaur, Gagandeep Singh alias Nanna, Jaspreet Singh and Nanakchand Singh alias Dholu were arrested from Sahauli village, said senior superintendent of police (SSP, Ludhiana rural) Charanjit Singh Sohal. A cache of ammunition, illegal weapons, a car, fake vehicle registration certificates and other documents were recovered from their possession, indicating that they had been proving shelter, vehicles, weapons and assorted aid to the fugitives. Police have already arrested Satpal Kaur alias Noni, the wife of one of Bhullar’s absconding aides Darshan Singh. The SSP said the accused had been arrested under Sections 212 (harbouring an offender), 216 (harbouring offender who has escaped from custody or whose apprehension has been ordered), 120B (criminal conspiracy), 420 (cheating), 467 (forgery of valuable security, will), and 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).The accused have been remanded five days in police custody. The gangster and his three aides had murdered two ASIs in New Grain Market of Jagraon on May 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cache-of-arms-ammo-recovered-from-gangster-jaipal-bhullar-s-accomplices-6-held-101621630973410.html
22-05-2021||Delhi||Over 100 air ambulances operated from IGIA in April||The General Aviation terminal at the Delhi’s Indira Gandhi International airport has handled about 100 air ambulance movements in April alone. The flights were operated between Delhi and airports across the country and to several international locations like Germany, Dubai, Zurich, Kathmandu, Dhaka, etc, said airport officials aware of the matter.According to Delhi International Airport Ltd (DIAL), which runs the airport, currently, there are 12 aircraft owned by different charter jet operators which are permitted to operate as air ambulances from IGI airport. These aircraft have completed at least 100 movements in April alone, ferrying Covid patients to different states and even abroad, said DIAL officials.“Most of these air ambulances function from the newly constructed dedicated General Aviation (GA) apron. While the pilots and the crew travel from the GA Terminal, the patients’ movement takes place through dedicated airside gates to avoid any chances of contamination inside airport terminals. On board, Covid patients are kept in German-made isolation pods, a protective cover with oxygen arrangement,” said an official.Under the current circumstances, patients are to be accompanied only by a doctor, a paramedical officer and a nurse. These are certified doctors trained to handle critical care while flying, the operator added.DIAL also said it ensures timely sanitisation of the ambulance aircraft and dedicated passage for patients to board the ambulance.“Regular fumigation and use of particular garbage bins for used PPE kits are also ensured. Our staff follow all the precautionary protocols to comply with Covid-19 safety measures while handling emergency activities at the Delhi airport,” an official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/over-100-air-ambulances-operated-from-igia-in-april-101621629183448.html
22-05-2021||Chandigarh||Gangster Jaipal Bhullar, aides used snatched police weapons to gun down ASIs in Jagraon||Gangster Jaipal Bhullar and his three accomplices, who are on the run after gunning down two assistant sub-inspectors (ASIs) of the crime investigation agency (CIA) in Jagraon town of Ludhiana district on May 15, had used 9mm pistols, which are strictly reserved for security personnel, to carry out the killings, police officials said on Friday. It is suspected that the weapons used to kill ASIs Bhagwan Singh and Dalwinderjit Singh had been snatched from an ASI in Doraha city, five days before the attack, police said. It is suspected that Bhullar and his aides — Balwinder Singh of Mahalla Khurd village, Moga; Jaspreet Singh of Kharar town, Mohali; and Darshan Singh of Sahauli village, Ludhiana — have at least three official pistols, including one snatched from slain ASI Bhagwan Singh, in their possession.The development has sent shock waves across the police department, which is now scrambling to connect incidents where miscreants have made off with police weapons to crimes committed using 9mm pistols. Two recent incidents where the police personnel have lost their service pistols to miscreants are under the scanner. On May 10, two occupants of a Hyundai Aura car had assaulted ASI Sukhdev Singh on the national highway in Doraha and fled with his service pistol, which was loaded with six bullets.  They had injured the ASI with the butt of a pistol they were already carrying and driven off on the wrong side of the road after removing the number plates of the car. An FIR was registered under Sections 353 (assault or use of criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty), 186 (obstructing public servant in the discharge of his public functions), 332 (causing hurt to deter public servant from his duty), 333 (causing grievous hurt to deter public servant from his duty), 379-B (theft) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), and different sections of the Arms act against unidentified accused at the Doraha police station.It is suspected that the vehicle used to carry out the crime had been snatched from an insurance company employee at gunpoint in Samrala on October 23. However, the police had failed to trace the accused.In the second incident that took place on May 3, ASI Rajesh Kumar, who is deputed in the anti-smuggling cell, had lost his service pistol loaded with 10 bullets to miscreants, who had broken into his car after smashing its windowpanes near the civil hospital. A case had been lodged against unidentified accused at Police Division 2.Inspector general of police (IGP, Ludhiana range) Naunihal Singh said the bullets recovered from the bodies of the ASIs had been sent to the Forensic Science Laboratory for examination. “Several teams are working round-the-clock to arrest Bhullar and his aides,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/gangster-jaipal-bhullar-aides-used-snatched-police-weapons-to-gun-down-asis-in-jagraon-101621629952462.html
22-05-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana restauranteurs elated over curfew relaxation; biz will remain hit, say traders||Ludhiana The announcement of one-hour relaxation in curfew timings from May 24 has failed to appease traders at large. However, permission to deliver cooked meals till 8pm has certainly brought respite to the food industry, which as per the May 8 orders, could not deliver food after noon, leaving them with inconvenient business hours. Those running non-essential business say their sales have dipped because of the curfew and an hour’s relaxation in the afternoon was unlikely to help drum up business. “The relaxation hours from 5am to 1pm are not conducive for business,” said a shopkeeper, who did not wish to be named. A trader, Sunil Vinayak, recommends that the curfew be relaxed between 8am to 3pm. “Under the present slot, what is the point of increasing the relaxation by an hour? It will only increase the chaos in the market. the timing should be such that it suits everybody.” Jewellers in Catch-22 situation Raman Gogna, a jeweller, says, “Gold rates are announced at 11.30am, so we are left with a very small window for sale and purchase. Thanks to the odd relaxation timings, customers are not showing up. If the timings are changed to 8am to 4pm, it will help our business. The timings right now, are as good as an airtight curfew, for the all the good it does us,” said Gogna.Nonetheless, restauranteurs welcomed the announcement. “Being allowed to deliver food will provide a major respite to the food industry. It is a step towards gradual reopening. At the very least, we will be able to meet some of our expenses. Takeaways and home delivery are a small percentage of our sales, while in-house dining is the mainstay. I do understand that under the present circumstances it is not wise to start in-house dining. However, I hope that in time, it too can be restarted, said Sukhkaran Singh Gill, who owns a restaurant in Ghumar Mandi. “Till such a time, the government should give small business owners some incentives such as tax rebates, relaxation in electricity charges and other taxes levied by the municipal corporation,” Singh added.‘Timely shot in the arm’ Another restaurant owner, Harjinder Singh Kukreja, agrees, “Timely action will save the industry from sinking. Food delivery is as essential as medicines. Many quarantined patients and senior citizens depend on food delivery,”he said.Hotel and Restaurant Association president Amarvir Singh said the relaxation had provided oxygen to the asphyxiating food industry. “We are hoping that the government will soon allow 50 to 100 people to assemble for weddings,” Amarvir said. Bhupinder Basant, senior vice-chairperson, Punjab Traders Board (excise and taxation) has also appreciated the order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-restauranteurs-elated-over-curfew-relaxation-biz-will-remain-hit-say-traders-101621629652705.html
22-05-2021||Chandigarh||Come May 24, curfew in Ludhiana to be relaxed for another hour||In a relief to the business community, come May 24, shops in Ludhiana district will be able to stay open for another hour as the administration decided to extend the weekday curfew relaxation timings till 1pm on Friday. As per the fresh directions, hotels and restaurants, which had taken a hit thanks to the inconvenient curfew relaxation timings, will now be able to deliver cooked food till 8pm. Deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma said, “Relaxation time for all shops has been extended by one hour from Monday to Friday. Earlier, the seven-hour relaxation window was from 5am to noon. However, now shops can remain open till 1pm.” “Though, the 16-hour curfew will begin at 1pm, hotels and restaurants can now deliver food till 8pm,” the DC said. The fresh directions came as a breather for the hotel and restaurant industry of Ludhiana, which had suffered huge losses due to the restrictions as even home delivery had been prohibited in curfew hours in the orders announced on May 8. “No dining in is permitted but takeaways are allowed till 1pm. Strict action will be taken against those found ordering takeaways from hotels after curfew has been imposed. E-commerce and courier companies may also function from Monday to Friday till 8pm after taking curfew passes,” he said, adding that there had been no let-up in the weekend curfew, which will start at 1pm on Friday till 5 am on Monday, as usual.Appreciating the business community’s support in reining in the cases, the DC said, “The district’s positivity rate has dropped. The number of fatalities is still high but we hope the figures will reduce in the coming days.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/come-may-24-curfew-in-ludhiana-to-be-relaxed-for-another-hour-101621629172987.html
22-05-2021||Other||Rising Covid deaths driving Ludhiana’s wealthy to draft wills sooner||The uncertainty of life amid a raging second wave of Covid-19 has focused minds on an advanced planning of assets and drafting of wills, especially among the financially affluent of Ludhiana.According to legal experts, there has been over 20% rise in drafting of wills by people in their 40s and 50s, a phenomenon that was unseen in pre-Covid times.Piyush Kant Jain, a Punjab and Haryana high court lawyer and former additional advocate general of Punjab, said besides increase in the drafting of wills, there has been a sharp rise in consultation on writing/ revising wills and estate planning.“The number of lives snuffed out during the second wave has been high, with most victims in their 50s and 60s. Owners of huge properties and well-established business houses are coming forward to make their wills so that everything they own can be settled without any disputes,” he said.In Ludhiana, which has witnessed 1,837 deaths since the beginning of the pandemic, the maximum number of fatalities in the second wave is of those in their 50s and 60s, and the disturbing trend has provoked people to come forward to draft wills. In the past 13 days (May 9 to 21), 101 persons in their 50s and 74 in their 60s have succumbed to the virus in Ludhiana.Advocate Arpita Bector, who deals with corporate as well as insurance cases, says there has been a section of the business community in Ludhiana that has become highly proactive to drafting their wills, especially after the deadly second wave.“Life has suddenly become a lot more uncertain. There is a surge in such cases and deaths due to Covid, driving the wealthy to plan the pass down of their estate in advance. A large number of them are declaring their immovable assets,” she said adding that this trend should be further encouraged.Advocate Parupkar Singh Ghuman said there was no dearth of people making wills in Punjab even earlier. “But people in 70s or 60s used to comprise the majority of our clientele till now, which has changed this year. Over the last one month, a number of people in their 50s, 60s and even 40s have approached us for consultation or drafting of wills,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/rising-covid-deaths-driving-ludhiana-s-wealthy-to-draft-wills-sooner-101621628217078.html
22-05-2021||Chandigarh||Death rate among kids less during second wave than first in Punjab||Children and youngsters were affected less during the second wave of coronavirus in Punjab than the first last year as far as death rate is concerned, reveals an analysis of the data of the state health department till April-end. The state government, however, claims to have started making preparations amid concerns that the third wave of the pandemic may attack kids more. In the second wave till April 30, the case fatality ratio (CFR) in the 0-14 age group is 0.1% against 0.4% in the first wave (till December 31, 2020), according to the age-wise analysis of the positive patients. “In the 11-20 age group, the CFR in the second wave is 0.3% as compared to 0.9% in the first wave. Deaths in this age group in the first wave were more,” said state Covid-19 nodal officer Dr Rajesh Bhaskar. However, positivity rate (number of persons detected positive against those tested) in the 0-10 age group during the second wave is 2% against 1.8% in the first wave. The Punjab government on Thursday announced to start “mission mode” preparedness to tackle the third wave by setting up special treatment facilities for children. Taking stock of the Covid situation in the state, the chief minister has directed the state expert group headed by former PGIMER director Dr KK Talwar to look into all aspects and get training modules prepared for the health department. “Kids are considered to be the safe from the virus because of the natural protection they enjoy because of different reasons. What will make them more prone to the virus in the third wave is that a large number of adults would have got vaccinated by that time. Also, the way the virus is mutating, we don’t know how it will target different age groups. It’s better we get prepared for every eventuality,” said Dr Talwar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/death-rate-among-kids-less-during-second-wave-than-first-in-punjab-101621628216139.html
22-05-2021||Chandigarh||No critical care facilities in 17 districts, SGPC to provide vaccine: Sukhbir Badal||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Friday claimed that 17 of the 22 districts in Punjab had no critical Covid care (level-3 beds) facilities due to which more than 200 deaths were taking place in the state daily. “While other states made adequate arrangements in the past six months, the Congress government in Punjab did nothing and even 800 ventilators provided by the central government remain in stores,” said Sukhbir while inaugurating a 25-bed Covid care facility set up by the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) at Gurdwara Sri Nankeana Sahib in Sangrur. The facility is equipped with oxygen concentrators. Accompanied by SGPC president Jagir Kaur, her predecessor Gobind Singh Longowal, former MLA Iqbal Singh Jhunda and party spokesman Winnerjit Singh Goldy, the SAD chief asked chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh to assign districts to his ministers to deal with the crisis by ensuring all patients had access to medicines and oxygen.“The black fungus is more dangerous but medicines are not available for the disease in many hospitals. The government should have made arrangements in advance but failed to do so,” he added.The former deputy chief minister announced that the SGPC was in the process of procuring 50,000 doses of vaccine and would start a drive to vaccinate people in the days to come. He said the government should also talk to vaccine manufacturers and place purchase orders directly to meet the demand for vaccine in the state.Jagir Kaur said more Covid care centres would be set up by the SGPC in the coming days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/no-critical-care-facilities-in-17-districts-sgpc-to-provide-vaccine-sukhbir-badal-101621628212277.html
22-05-2021||Chandigarh||SAD flays minister Tript Bajwa for linking farmers’ stir to Covid surge in Punjab||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Friday condemned Punjab rural development minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa for trying to deflect attention from the Congress government’s failure in combating Covid-19 to farmers engaged in agitation against the Centre’s agriculture laws.The Akali party asked the state government to answer for its failures instead of defaming the annadata (food provider).In a statement here, SAD Kisan Wing president Sikander Singh Maluka said it was shocking that at a time when Punjab was in chaos due to the utter callousness of the Congress government, the latter was trying to paint farmers participating in dharnas against the three contentious laws at Singhu and Tikri borders near Delhi as super-spreaders.Asserting that this was furthest from the truth, Maluka asked, “How is it that the government discovered this fact after so long when the situation has gone out of hand due to its failure to provide medicines, oxygen and quality treatment at government hospitals.”He said the farmers had been agitating at the Singhu and Tikri borders for more than seven months. “Why are they being singled out for attack now? The state Congress must tell Punjabis if this is a part of a conspiracy to scuttle the kisan andolan at the instance of the central government,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sad-flays-minister-tript-bajwa-for-linking-farmers-stir-to-covid-surge-in-punjab-101621628156014.html
22-05-2021||Other||Akal Takht opposes dera chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim’s parole||Akal Takht, the supreme temporal seat of the Sikhs, on Friday opposed the parole granted to Sirsa-based Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim, stating that the move has the potential to again vitiate the atmosphere of Punjab.Hours after the dera chief, who is undergoing a 20-year jail sentence for raping two of his followers, was released from Sunaria jail on a 48-hour parole, Takht jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh said in a video that the government has committed a wrong by granting parole to Gurmeet, who is accused of committing blasphemy.He said, “I have learnt that some of the Sikh prisoners have tested positive for Covid-19 in Burail jail of Chandigarh, but the government is not releasing them, nor granting them parole. On the other side, the dera chief has been granted the same despite committing heinous offences.”“This shows the government’s double standards. Releasing him on parole is nothing but a potential act of vitiating Punjab’s atmosphere. Peace in the state must not be disturbed at any cost and the dera chief’s parole must be cancelled,” demanded the jathedar.The Takht head added, “I think this move is politically motivated. Secondly, once again the government has discriminated against the Sikhs. On the other hand, culprits of the Sikh massacre have not been arrested yet. This is a grave injustice to the community.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/akal-takht-opposes-dera-chief-gurmeet-ram-rahim-s-parole-101621628155000.html
22-05-2021||Other||Helpline set up to help Punjab doctors on Covid duty cope with burnout||As challenges around the pandemic increase, doctors on Covid-19 duty are under severe pressure. In the first wave, they were overworked, but now they have to deal with saving lives as the health infrastructure is crumbling.Doctors, including senior residents with just a few years of experience, have to make tough decisions under extreme situations. Death of patients, delay in treatment due to non-availability of ventilator beds and a shortage of medicines, are leaving doctors stressed, and mentally vulnerable.Thus, to ensure their psychological well-being, Baba Farid University of Health Sciences (BFUHS) here has started a burnout helpline to address mental health issues.Dr Rajvir Kaur, a junior resident of anaesthesia department, who is working in Covid ward, said, “We have been on regular Covid duty without quarantine for over a year now. PPE kits have become a uniform for us as we are working 12-hour shifts on most days. By the end of the day, the PPEs leave us drenched in sweat and dehydrated. Work has been quite stressful.”“Seeing people die despite every effort to save their lives is affecting our mental health. Many of us have not gone home, as there’s a chance that we may spread it to family members,” said Dr Diksha, also working in the Covid ward.To helpline will be accessible from 3pm to 7pm daily and doctors can seek help on 95677-68078 (Monday-Friday) and 88614-31673 (Saturday-Sunday).BFUHS registrar Dr Ruhee Dugg said that there is no data available regarding mental health issues, but doctors are mentally exhausted because of the workload and tough decision making. “The helpline is aimed at addressing these doctors’ mental health concerns,” she added.“The counselling will be provided free of cost by Dr Ashwani, founder of Mukta Foundation, Bangalore, and fellow psychologists, who would conduct on-call counselling sessions. The helpline would be initially available from 3pm to 7pm daily, and the same would be extended further if demand increases. Any doctor across the state dealing with stress can take these sessions,” she added.A psychiatrist said that there is too much exhaustion and fatigue among doctors while nobody has a clear idea about when the pandemic would come to an end.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/helpline-set-up-to-help-punjab-doctors-on-covid-duty-cope-with-burnout-101621628154086.html
22-05-2021||Other||Three FCI employees held for taking ₹58K bribe from rice miller in Sangrur||The Punjab vigilance bureau (VB) arrested three employees of Food Corporation of India (FCI) for allegedly taking a bribe of ₹58,000 in Sunam town of the district on Friday.The accused have been identified as technical assistant Om Parkash, assistant manager Amit Kumar appointed at FCI’s Sunam food storage depot, and Paramjit Sharma, a private aide of the accused. Besides them, Naresh Kumar (quality controller) was also booked in the case.The complainant, Sikanderjit Singh of Patiala, a rice mill owner, stated that the accused demanded ₹25,000 per truck in lieu of clearing quality checking of rice and storage at the FCI godown.Patiala senior superintendent of police (VB) Mandeep Singh Sidhu said accused Om Prakash was caught red-handed while accepting a bribe of ₹58,000. “The accused handed over the bribe amount to Paramjit Sharma of Shakarpura, Tohana tehsil, who was also held by the vigilance team,” added Sidhu.The complainant also stated that Naresh Kumar and others had taken ₹1.5 lakh from him earlier. However, they allegedly harassed him and sought more bribes for the passage of new trucks.The VB said that Sikanderjit’s trucks were also stopped on May 19 and 20. However, when the complainant met Naresh Kumar and the other accused, the latter demanded ₹25,000 per truck in lieu of various clearances.Police said that when the accused were caught taking bribe, Naresh Kumar was not present at the scene, but he will be arrested soon.A case has been registered under Section 7 of the Prevention of Corruption Act and Section 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the IPC at the vigilance bureau station, Patiala range.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/three-fci-employees-held-for-taking-58k-bribe-from-rice-miller-in-sangrur-101621628152859.html
22-05-2021||Chandigarh||Four labourers killed in Kullu tunnel collapse||Four labourers trapped after an under-construction tunnel collapsed in Himachal Pradesh’s Kullu on Friday have died, police said. The incident took place at Pancha Nullah near Garsa after which rescue teams were rushed there, Kullu superintendent of police Gaurav Singh said. Six labourers were working at the NHPC-2 hyrdo power project when the incident took place around 4pm.Meanwhile, a fierce thunderstorm wreaked havoc in Kangra, Mandi and Chamba.Though brought about by a western disturbance, the rough weather is said to be fallout of Tauktae. Power supply was snapped at several places and there was a complete blackout in eight panchayats of Bharmour. Thunderstorm wreaks havoc A fierce thunderstorm wreaked havoc in Kangra, Mandi and Chamba on the intervening night of Thursday and Friday.Though brought about by a western disturbance, the rough weather is said to be fallout of Cyclone Tauktae.Roofs of six cowsheds were blown away by strong winds in Bhatiyat region of Chamba district while power supply was snapped at several places after trees fell on transmission lines and electric poles were uprooted. There was a complete blackout in eight panchayats of tribal Bharmour subdivision.A house and a cowshed were damaged in Dharamshala town. However, no loss of life has been reported in any part.Meanwhile, Tissa recorded maximum 41mm rainfall, Chamba 21mm, Reckong Peo and Kalpa 19mm each, Dalhousie 17mm, Bharmaur 8mm, Gaggal 7mm, Kasauli, Jogindernagar, Wangtoo and Sarahan 5mm each and Rohru, Dharamshala, Manali and Palampur 3mm each.Kalpa was the coldest in the state with minimum temperature of 3.9 degrees Celsius while Keylong in Lahaul-Spiti recorded low of 4 degrees Celsius. Una was the hottest with high of 34 degrees Celsius.Minimum temperatures were 1 to 2 degrees below normal.The MeT department has predicted wet weather in the state till May 24.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/four-labourers-killed-in-kullu-tunnel-collapse-101621628093107.html
22-05-2021||Other||Nihang murdered by aide in Tarn Taran||A 20-year-old Nihang was stabbed to death by one of his aides at Soorwind Bhaini village in the district on Friday morning.The deceased, who hailed from Jalandhar, was identified as Karamjit Singh. He was associated with a Nihang organisation headquartered at Sursingh village. He was staying at the residence of Gurwinder Singh in Soorwind Bhaini along with other members of the organisation.Police said Karamjit was combing his hair in the morning when his aide, Surjit Singh of Tarn Taran’s Sakhira village, attacked him with a sharp-edged weapon, leaving him critically injured. He succumbed to his injuries on the way to a hospital in Amritsar.“The accused was arrested hours after the murder. He had been holding a grudge against the victim ever since their fight over horse riding last month,” said Tarn Taran SSP Dhruman Nimbale.He added that a case was registered against the accused under Section 302 (murder) of the IPC and the victim’s body was handed over to the family after postmortem.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/nihang-murdered-by-aide-in-tarn-taran-101621628092167.html
22-05-2021||Chandigarh||4,854 people sought counselling in HP during pandemic: Health officials||With the lockdown in place to the contain the virus spread in Himachal, people infected with Covid-19 who are under home isolation are suffering from the anxiety, said National Rural Health Mission director Nipun Jindal. Majority of the patients suffer from anxiety, worries, non-specific psychological distress, depression, stress symptoms including PTSD, insomnia, hallucinations, paranoia and suicidal ideation, he added. “People are also worried about how will they get their medications during the curfew. Patients in isolation also have symptoms of anxiety and had been contacting us. Those in hospital isolation are highly vulnerable to experiencing psychiatric symptoms, which may be either due to direct effects of the illness, reactionary or sometimes side effects of the medications like steroids or other drugs,” Jindal said. So far, 4,854 people have reached out to doctors and counsellors through different helplines set up by the government . Out of them, 2,337 patients have been counselled since January this year.Anxiety, anger, depression, fear of contracting infection and frustration due to inability to meet people and go out freely are the common emotions with most of the people. Some people, who are vulnerable or have pre-existing mental health issues, have clinically significant depression and anxiety or even may develop suicidal ideation,” said Dr Dinesh Dutt Sharma, head of psychiatry department, IGMC. The pandemic has brought multiple challenges in addition to the disease and during this period, renewed emphasis is required on the mental health issues of Covid patients during their illness, post-Covid period, people with pre-existing history of psychiatric disorders as well as mental health concerns faced by the public, Jindal added.He said health helpline 104 was providing counselling services related to mental health and de-addiction.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/4854-people-sought-counselling-in-hp-during-pandemic-health-officials-101621628037054.html
22-05-2021||Chandigarh||First black fungus patient in Jammu dies||Jammu and Kashmir on Friday recorded first death due to black fungus. A 40-year-old patient suffering from mucormycosis was admitted to the government medical college in Jammu on Thursday, but he succumbed today, said financial commissioner health and medical education Atal Dulloo. Principal and dean of GMC, Dr Shashi Sudan Sharma, said, “His tests confirmed him to be a case of mucormycosis, commonly called black fungus. His blood sugar had shot up to 900 when he was brought to the hospital emergency.” He was a Covid patient, who had recovered and even tested negative in RTPCR test. “He contracted black fungus due to his uncontrolled levels of blood sugar. Steroids are given to Covid patients for a long time, but in his case his blood sugar was uncontrolled and he had not been administered with proper antidiabetic medication,” Sharma said. People with weak immunity and those having uncontrolled diabetes are vulnerable to this disease, she added. Once inside the body, black fungus starts damaging blood vessels, brain and even bones. Dr Sharma said that doctors were attending to him and the first priority was to bring down his blood sugar levels and stabilise them, but he died this afternoon. “Black fungus is not related to Covid, but we have found it in corona patients in other states. Since steroids are used in the treatment of Covid for a long time, in cases of steroid-induced diabetes and uncontrolled sugar levels, the patient may get predisposition to this condition called black fungus. It is not a communicable disease at all,” she added. She said that when the patient was brought to the emergency, he not only had 900 blood sugar level, but was in ketoacidosis state. “The mucormycosis had progressed a lot in him and in such cases, we have to first control underlying diseases like diabetes and ketoacidosis. We also give anti-fungal, but first the underlying disease has to be controlled. Recovery rate vary from patient to patient,” Sharma said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/first-black-fungus-patient-in-jammu-dies-101621628036094.html
22-05-2021||Chandigarh||Active cases in J&K drop below 50,000||After the recovery of 4,466 patients on Friday, the number of active cases in J&K dropped below 50,000. On Friday, 43 people lost their lives to Covid in Jammu and Kashmir, taking May’s fatalities to 1,183 and overall death toll to 3,465.The region also recorded 3,808 fresh infections in the past 24 hours pushing the overall cases to 2,63,905. There are 49,893 active cases in J&K presently — 7,519 in Jammu and 6,884 in Srinagar districts.The overall number of people who recovered reached 2,10,547, improving the recovery rate to 79.95%. Of the 43 deaths in the UT, 27 were reported in Jammu division and 16 in Kashmir. Officials said with 598 cases, Srinagar had the highest number of new infections, followed by 401 in Jammu district. Srinagar and Jammu districts have together contributed for about 1.07 lakh cases and 1,641 deaths of the total. The Jammu district has taken over as the one with the highest number of 919 fatalities followed by Srinagar with 722 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/active-cases-in-j-k-drop-below-50000-101621628035011.html
22-05-2021||Chandigarh||Five lives lost in twin Himachal mishaps||Five persons died in two separate accidents in Himachal Pradesh on Friday. Four women were killed and two others were seriously injured when the vehicle they were travelling in rolled down a gorge in Gehra village of Thauna panchayat in Sarkaghat subdivision of Mandi district. The deceased have been identified as Jhansi Devi, 60, Damodari Devi, 55, Sarla Devi and Kamla Devi. The injured, including a woman, are undergoing treatment. Sarkaghat DSP Chanderpal Singh said five women of Gehra village had gone to fair price shop to buy ration. While returning home, the women took lift in an SUV which plunged into a 250ft gorge after the driver lost control. Locals rushed them to the local primary health centre, where the two women were pronounced dead on arrival while others were taken to community health centre in Sarkaghat. The other two were referred to Mandi zonal hospital, but they died on the way. Police have registered a case of rash driving and causing death by negligence and further investigations are on. In another mishap, a man died, while two others went missing after the truck they were travelling in fell into a stream in remote Churah subdivision of Chamba district. The deceased has been identified as Pawan Kumar, a resident of Churah valley, who worked as a cleaner. Chamba SP S Arul Kumar said the accident took place early on Friday at Tissa bridge. “Three persons were said to be washed away by the gushing water. Body of one of the victims has been found and a rescue operation is on to trace others,” he said. The identity of those missing is unknown. The police have registered a case and initiated investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/five-lives-lost-in-twin-himachal-mishaps-101621628032224.html
22-05-2021||Chandigarh||Farm protest: HC seeks Punjab DGP’s reply on Adani subsidiary plea||The Punjab and Haryana High Court has sought response from the Punjab director general of police (DGP) on a petition filed by Adani Logistics, an Adani Group subsidiary, against the farmers’ protest holding up its stocks in Ludhiana.The firm had approached the court in March saying the farmers have been sitting on a dharna in front of its inland container depot in Ludhiana, thus rendering it non-operational since January 1. No action was taken to remove the blockade despite it having filed a number of complaints with the police, the firm had said.The state government in response to the plea had informed court that of the 300 loaded containers lying in the depot earlier, 275 carrying perishable goods were taken out. Only 25 containers of non-perishable goods are parked there, it added. The court was also informed that these containers are held up on account of custom clearance and not protests. Meetings were held with farmers and they have sought time to await the decision of the Supreme Court regarding challenge to the three farm laws. On the other hand, the firm had told the court that nearly 450 customers, including exporters and importers, are associated with the inland container depot that has 89 workers. The high court bench of Justice HS Sidhu said under the circumstances, it may be appropriate that the DGP in consultation with the chief secretary may take an initiative to get the blockade lifted and the exercise be carried out expeditiously. The DGP shall file a personal affidavit on the outcome by June 4, the bench added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/farm-protest-hc-seeks-punjab-dgp-s-reply-on-adani-subsidiary-plea-101621627973155.html
22-05-2021||Chandigarh||PPCB seeks more funds from Centre for in-situ management of paddy stubble||The Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) has sought funds from the central government for 70,000 more machines for in-situ management of crop residue during the paddy harvesting season in later part of the year. In an action plan sent to the Union ministry of environment last week, the board submitted a three-year roadmap seeking ₹873 crore to distribute 1 lakh machines to the state’s farmers for the purpose. It said from 2018 to 2020, as many as 75,355 machines were given on subsidy for machines which could process 6.45 million tonne stubble against 20 million tonne paddy straw produced every kharif season. Of the 20 million tonnes, half rest is set on fire, it added. Crop residue management machines include mulcher, rotavator, happy seeder, straw shredder and reverse plough. According to the action plan, 70,000 subsidised machines will supplied to farmers in the year 2021-22; 20,000 in 2022-23 and 10,000 in in 2023-24. In the upcoming season, paddy will be cultivated on an estimated 27 lakh hectares and the premium basmati over 5.35 lakh hectares.The Union ministry of agriculture had earlier given a grant of ₹793 crore to Punjab to purchase machines. In 2018-19, ₹269.38 crore was released and 27,747 machines were distributed to the farmers. In 2019-2020, as many as 23,068 machines were given when the state received ₹273.8 crore. In 2020-21, 24,540 machines were distributed to the farmers at ₹250 crore. The machines are given on 50% subsidy to individual farmers and 80% subsidy to the custom hiring centres. The state government wants to open more centres in villages with all types of machines.As per the action plan, 0.82 million tonne paddy straw is used in 10 biomass-based power generating plants which have a total capacity of 91.5 megawatts, 0.1 million tonne is used by the paper industry, 2.57 million tonne generated from basmati crop is used a dry fodder for animals while 6.45 million tonne is disposed of through in-situ management.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ppcb-seeks-more-funds-from-centre-for-in-situ-management-of-paddy-stubble-101621627972081.html
22-05-2021||Other||Industrial production in Mohali down by 30% in three weeks||The industry in Mohali has taken a severe hit due to the lockdown with the overall production going down by 30% in the last three weeks.The industrialists say that since they have failed to procure the raw material, 40% of the workers have gone back to their native states fearing a longer lockdown.There are around 13,000 MSME units and 49 major industrial houses in the district employing 1.3 lakh workers.The president of Mohali Industries Association (MIA), Yogesh Sagar, said, “There is an acute shortage of semi-finished products, which were to come mainly from Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu, but the states are under complete lockdown. So there is a break in the supply chain due to which 40% of the workers from Bihar and Uttar Pradesh have gone back to their villages. This has resulted in the production going down by around 30%.”‘Employees suffering from Covid’“There is an acute shortage of steel due to decline in the supply and very high prices in the domestic market. Some of our employees are suffering from Covid-19, which has also resulted in reduction in production. Also due to the non-availability of containers, the exporters are not able to meet their targets. As most of the markets are under shutdown, manufacturers are not able to sell their final products,” said Vivek Kapoor, vice-president of MIA.Former president of MIA, Sanjeev Vashist, said that the production had also reduced due to the non-availability of oxygen cylinders for manufacturing. This has led to production going down by 40-50% in most of the units, he added.Around 10 industries became operational in Mohali in 1978, growing to about 10,000 units, including manufacturing and IT/ service industry. The Industrial Area is divided into different phases: Phase 1 to 4 fall under the Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA), Phase 7, 8-A, and 8-B under the Punjab Small Industries Export Corporation Limited (PSIEC) and Phase 9 under Punjab Infotech.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/industrial-production-in-mohali-down-by-30-in-three-weeks-101621627913562.html
22-05-2021||Chandigarh||Technical institute faculty in Chandigarh to retire at 65 not 58: HC||In a significant judgment, the Punjab and Haryana high court has held that retirement age for faculty of institutes governed under norms of All India Institute of Technical Education (AICTE) will be 65 years and not 58 as fixed by Chandigarh administration. The court also directed that the petitioners who have been forcibly superannuated be taken back with consequential benefits. The high court bench of justices AG Masih and AK Verma set aside the 1992 rules adopted by Chandigarh administration according to which retirement age of faculty of institutes such as Government College of Arts and Government College of Architecture, Chandigarh, was fixed at 58 years. The high court held that retirement age of such faculty will be 65 years with an extension period of five years as applicable in central government institutes. A set of faculty members of these two colleges had moved Central Administrative Tribunal (CAT) challenging the 1992 rules. However, in 2020, the CAT had dismissed their plea. Their argument was that their institutes are governed under AICTE Act, 1987, and rules with regard to regulations on pay scales, service conditions etc. would apply as followed by all AICTE governed institutes. The UT had argued that the services of the petitioners are covered by the rules framed under 1992 notification according to which Punjab government service rules have been adopted. Hence, retirement age would remain at 58 years. The high court bench said in the case of the Union Territories, the rule-making power belongs to the President. This power under Article 309 and the rules framed will operate and will have a force of law, unless and until Parliament chooses to legislate on the subject. “Once the Parliament legislates, such Act and the rules/regulations framed there under, would take over the field resulting in the rules framed by the president under proviso to Article 309 seizing to operate forthwith,” the court said referring to AICTE Act. The court said that under AICTE Regulations, 2010, the age for superannuation was 65 years with a provision for re-employment up to the age of 70 years. To the argument that funds for the colleges are provided by the UT, the court said that these are central government funds and UT is merely utilising them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/technical-institute-faculty-in-chandigarh-to-retire-at-65-not-58-hc-101621627912050.html
22-05-2021||Delhi||Deep Sidhu among 16 named in first charge sheet over Red Fort violence||Punjabi actor-turned-activist Deep Sidhu is among the 16 people who have been named in the charge sheet filed by Delhi Police’s crime branch in a Delhi court in connection with the case of alleged violence and vandalism at the Red Fort during the farmers’ tractor rally on Republic Day, senior police officers aware of the development said on Friday.The charge sheet running into 3,224 pages was submitted before a duty metropolitan magistrate in Tis Hazari Court on April 17 (Monday), the officers quoted above said. The chief metropolitan magistrate will hear the matter now on May 28.All the 16 people named in the charge sheet were arrested. While Sidhu and 12 others have been released on bail, three accused, identified as 23-year-old Dutch national of Indian origin, Maninderjit Singh alias Moni, Khempreet Singh and Jabrajang Singh, are still in judicial custody.Also Read| Deep Sidhu, accused in Jan 26 violence, granted bail by Delhi court in 2nd caseA senior police officer associated with the probe said even as the investigation into the case is still in progress and many suspects are yet to be arrested, the charge sheet was filed to meet the deadline of 90 days from the date of the first arrest.“A charge sheet has to be filed within 90 days of the first arrest in any case. The three arrested men would have got advantage in getting bail had the police failed to file the charge sheet in time. We will file supplementary charge sheets as and when required, and depending upon the progress in the investigation,” the officer said.According to the officer, names of many farm leaders have been mentioned in the contents of the charge sheet but “nobody has been listed in the accused column because as of now as their role is still being probed”.Two separate cases were registered in connection with the violence at the Red Fort. While one case involving serious charges such as rioting, attempt to murder, and criminal conspiracy was registered on the police’s complaint, the second case was registered on the basis of a complaint filed by the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI), which is the custodian of the Mughal-era fort. Sidhu was arrested in both the cases.The police are yet to file a charge sheet in the second case.Also Read| Farm unions write to PM Modi, seek resumption of dialogueAt least seven key suspects, including gangster-turned-activist Lakha Sidhana, are still absconding in the main Red Fort case (registered on the police’s complaint). Police have announced a ₹1 lakh reward each for information on Sidhana, Jugraj Singh, Gurajant Singh, and Gurjot Singh. Three more absconding suspects – Buta Singh, Jajbir Singh, and Sukhdev Singh – carry a ₹50,000 reward each on their arrest.Farmers who have been protesting against three farm laws since November last year took out a tractor rally on January 26. The rally turned violent when a group of protesters deviated from the pre-decided route and entered the Capital. After a face-off with police at ITO, the protesters moved towards Red Fort, vandalised property and clashed with policemen.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/deep-sidhu-among-16-named-in-first-charge-sheet-over-red-fort-violence-101621626702349.html
22-05-2021||Chandigarh||Probe begins against Panchkula hospital for overcharging Covid-19 patients||Haryana health minister Anil Vij on Friday ordered an inquiry against Paras Hospital, Panchkula, for overcharging Covid-19 patients. Vij formed a three-member committee to probe the complaints forwarded to him by Vidhan Sabha speaker and Panchkula MLA Gian Chand Gupta. The committee, comprising state medical education and research director Dr Shaleen, additional director general of health services Dr VK Bansal and a state finance department official, will submit its report in a week. Gupta had written to the state government, requesting it to carry out an audit of bills issued to Covid patients by private hospitals. He had even visited Paras Hospital after getting complaints of overcharging. Gupta said, “I had recommended that the allegations against Paras Hospital be probed by a high-level committee after the district-level committee had found discrepancies. I have also recommended that the licence of the hospital be cancelled and the same be locked as we cannot allow them to fleece the patients.” Speaker cites three instances Gupta in his letter to the health minister had mentioned three cases of overcharging. One Jog Dhyan was handed over a bill of ₹7.6 lakh by Paras Hospital on May 13 for his treatment for Covid-19 between May 2 and 13. The charges were reduced to ₹2.9 lakh after district administration intervened and district-level committee was set up to look into the allegations. The family of another Covid-19 patient who had succumbed to the virus on April 9, was handed a bill of ₹9.7 lakh for his treatment since March 24 at Paras Hospital. Dharam Pal Singhal, who had been admitted to the same hospital on April 17 and was discharged on May 3, was handed a bill of ₹4.97 lakh for various procedures as well as lab tests. Gupta had written in the letter that several patients and their families have approached him for help during the second wave. Haryana had in June last year issued an order capping the daily package rate for Covid-19 treatment in private hospitals between ₹8,000 to ₹18,000. We follow govt policies: HospitalParas Hospital spokesperson in a statement to the media said, “In this pandemic, we are standing firmly along side the government in its fight and serving the patients. We are completely aligned with government policies and patient bills are prepared as per the guidelines issued by government authorities. We will be fully cooperating with the inquiry and ensure that we continue to save as many lives as possible and treat as many patients as possible.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/probe-begins-against-panchkula-hospital-for-overcharging-covid-19-patients-101621627793475.html
22-05-2021||Delhi||Covid-19 in Delhi: Positivity rate drops to 4.76%, lowest in 45 days||The Covid-19 test positivity rate in the national capital on Friday dropped below 5% for the first time in 45 days, as the number of new infections continued to wind down in a clear sign that Delhi may be heading out of the punishing surge of infections that battered the city’s health care infrastructure, and left thousands dead in a matter of weeks.The positivity rate — proportion of samples tested that return positive for Covid-19 – in Delhi fell to 4.76%, down from 5.5% the previous day. Before this, the lowest positivity rate in the city was 4.64% on April 4.At its peak of the April-May surge, the positivity rate hit an all-time high of 36.24% on April 22.The test positivity rate is a crucial metric to judge the spread of an infection in an area. The World Health Organization (WHO) recommends a number below 5% for a two-week period for an infection to be considered under control.In the past seven days, 7.58% of all samples have tested positive in the Capital, down sharply from 17.93% in the previous week ending May 14.New cases too kept up their steady drop in the city, with 3,009 fresh infections logged, showed the Delhi government’s health bulletin on Friday. Delhi recorded 3,231 new infections on Thursday, and 3,846 cases the day before that.The seven-day average of cases, known as the case trajectory, dropped below the 5,000 mark on Friday for the first time in 43 days. A week ago on May 14, Delhi added an average of 12,588 cases every day.However, the daily death toll increased in Delhi on Friday, with 252 more people dying of the infection, the health bulletin showed, compared to 233 deaths the previous day. However, the seven-day average of deaths has dropped continuously for the past five days, from 312 on May 17 to 275 on Friday.To be sure, any drop in case trajectory generally takes 14 days to reflect on daily deaths as studies have shown that the median time between someone testing positive for Covid-19 and dying from it is around 13.8 days.Also Read| IGST on personal O2 concentrators unconstitutional, says Delhi high court“It is a good sign, but it is one day. We have to wait for at least the rolling weekly average to come below 5%; it would be better if it is 2%. And, even then, we shouldn’t think about easing all restrictions immediately,” said Dr Lalit Kant, former head of the department of epidemiology at the Indian Council of Medical Research. “A huge proportion of the population must have been exposed to the infection during the current wave; they will likely have some immunity for the next four to six months. We should use this time to prepare for the next surge.”The drop in new infections has led to a sharp fall in the active case count, which fell to 35,683 on Friday, down from 71,794 a week ago.Also Read| Over 800k migrants left Delhi after lockdown announced: GovtThis drop in active cases means that hospitalisations for the infection are also on the decline in the city. There were 11,388 people with the infection admitted to various city hospitals as on Thursday night. This means that almost 17,000 of the 28,490 beds earmarked for the treatment of Covid-19 were vacant as on Friday evening, putting the occupancy at 40.4%.As for intensive care unit (ICU) beds, 1,825 beds were vacant as on Friday evening according to the government’s Delhi Corona app, pegging the occupancy rate at 73.3%. At the peak of the current surge, Delhi had run out of ICU beds entirely.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covid19-in-delhi-positivity-rate-drops-to-4-76-lowest-in-45-days-101621626744122.html
22-05-2021||Delhi||Hoarding case: ED raids on Kalra and Duggal’s premises in South Delhi||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Friday raided the premises of businessmen Navneet Kalra and Gagan Duggal in connection with its money laundering probe into alleged hoarding and black marketing of oxygen concentrators, people familiar with the development said.Among the places raided included their residences at Mandi Road in South Delhi’s Mehrauli and Kalra’s restaurants – Khan Chacha, Town Hall, and Nega & Ju – as well as Dayal Opticals in the upscale Khan Market, officials said. A team separately searched Kalra’s bank lockers.Officials told HT that the ED team recovered 150 foreign brand liquor bottles from Kalra’s residence.The agency said UK-based businessman Gagan Duggal, managing director of Matrix Cellular International Services Limited (Matrix), was working with Kalra in importing the concentrators to India and selling at inflated prices.ED’s probe, according to two officials cited above, has revealed that both Kalra and Duggal imported more than 7,000 oxygen concentrators from China in the past one month and sold at exorbitant prices by claiming that the concentrators are made with German technology.“The forensic examination of the concentrators has revealed that they were low quality equipment. Kalra and Duggal bought these in China and same were routed to India via Hong Kong,” said the first officer, who asked not to be named.ED’s probe has revealed that the import price per unit of oxygen concentrator for Kalra and Duggal was ₹15,000 but they were charging R69,999 per unit from buyers. “They took advantage of a raging pandemic and made huge profit by cheating the public,” said another ED officer, who also asked to remain anonymous.The agency registered a case earlier this week to investigate the money trail of sale and purchase of oxygen concentrators and beneficiaries of hoarded concentrators. The federal anti-money laundering probe agency has powers to attach properties if established that money made by the accused is proceeds of crime.Kalra was arrested from a farmhouse in Gurugram on Sunday evening. He is currently in judicial custody.The Delhi Police recovered 524 oxygen concentrators from three restaurants – Khan Chacha, Town Hall and Nege & Ju – owned by Kalra and from the office of Matrix Cellular between May 5 and May 7. Before Kalra, five people, including the manager of Nege & Ju restaurant, chief executive officer (CEO) and three senior officers of Matrix Cellular, were arrested after the recovery of the concentrators. However, all five were later released on bail with the court observing that it was unable to understand the offence they had committed as the government did not regulate the prices of the devices .In a statement after the arrest of CEO Gourav Khanna and other officials, Matrix said, “All materials procured by Matrix have been by way of import or purchase in India, after paying all relevant duties and taxes. Matrix has thereafter facilitated sale of such equipment / materials via it’s app or direct orders placed on the company, all of which have used formal banking channels based on tax invoices with an unimpeachable audit trail.”Samudra Sarangi, lead counsel for Matrix, said the company has filed documents before the high court to prove the allegations made by the police are misplaced. “Matrix has filed documents before the Delhi high court which prove the allegations of exorbitant pricing and deficient quality of oxygen concentrators are misplaced and incorrect. Matrix unequivocally denies any wrongdoing in the matter. The matter is currently before the courts and Matrix has faith that the legal process will vindicate it.”Kalra’s counsel, senior advocate Vikas Pahwa didn’t comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/hoarding-case-ed-raids-on-kalra-and-duggal-s-premises-in-south-delhi-101621626782237.html
22-05-2021||Chandigarh||13 more die of Covid in Mohali, new cases on a slide||The district on Friday reported 13 Covid-related deaths, taking the toll to 834. In a respite, the number of fresh Covid -19 cases has come down to 336, taking the patient tally to 63,612. For the first in past three weeks, the positivity rate has come down to 8%. In the past three weeks, 239 people have died due to the virus. Amid a surge, the district has recorded 17,042 cases to date in May, while in April 19,406 cases were recorded and 159 deaths. Out of Friday’s 336 cases, 105 are from Mohali city, 63 from Dhakoli, 48 from Kharar, 42 from Dera Bassi, 18 from Boothgarh, 22 from Gharuan, 8 from Kurali, 3 from Banur and 27 from Lalru. Meanwhile, 1,003 patients recovered from the disease, bringing down the number of active patients to 6,402 and the number of those recovered climbed to 56,376.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/13-more-die-of-covid-in-mohali-new-cases-on-a-slide-101621627373581.html
22-05-2021||Other||Governor to seek report on BJP’s allegations of ‘illegal resort’ against Maharashtra minister||Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari has assured the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) that he would ask chief secretary Sitaram Kunte to submit a report on the allegations that Shiv Sena leader and transport minister Anil Parab had constructed an illegal resort at Ratnagiri.Parab said that he has nothing to do with the resort. A BJP delegation led by former Member of Parliament (MP) Kirit Somaiya met Koshyari and submitted a memorandum demanding action against Parab as well as the demolition of the resort.“Parab has constructed an illegal resort worth ₹10 crore on agriculture land. The construction was done last year during the Covid-19 lockdown. He has misused his position and indulged in forgery. For this, he should be removed as a minister,” alleged Somaiya.He added that Parab had purchased the plot at Murud from an individual on June 19, 2019, by paying ₹1 crore. “Last year, Parab got a three-storey building with 24 rooms constructed on the plot. This is an illegal construction as it violated the CRZ (coastal regulation zone) norms,” said Somaiya.The minister, however, rubbished the allegations as pack of lies.“I have nothing to do with the resort and Somaiya is just indulging in political vendetta,” he said. Parab is a close confidant of chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and a senior minister in the state government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/governor-to-seek-report-on-bjp-s-allegations-of-illegal-resort-against-maharashtra-minister-101621627311449.html
22-05-2021||Mumbai||Petrol inching to Rs100-mark in Mumbai||The price of petrol is inching closer to ₹100 in Mumbai, after it surged by 18 paise to reach ₹99.32 per litre on Friday. Diesel price went up by 30 paise, following which the fuel was available for ₹91.01 per litre. On Thursday, one litre of petrol was priced at ₹99.14, while diesel was available for ₹90.71.The surge in fuel prices has been witnessed after remaining constant for two days.Among the metro cities, fuel prices in Mumbai are the highest. In Delhi, petrol and diesel were available at ₹93.04 and ₹83.80, respectively. Petrol and diesel were priced at ₹96.70 and ₹91.35, respectively, in Hyderabad on Friday, while at Chennai, a litre of petrol was priced at ₹94.71 and diesel at ₹88.62. The prices of fuel remained stable from April 15 to May 3 in Mumbai. On April 15, petrol was priced at ₹96.83 per litre and diesel at ₹87.81 against ₹96.98 and ₹87.96, respectively a day earlier. Following May 3, the prices have witnessed a steady surge.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/petrol-inching-to-rs100-mark-in-mumbai-101621627251483.html
22-05-2021||Mumbai||Elgaar Parishad case: Would prefer to die in jail instead of going to hospital, accused Stan Swamy tells HC||Tribal rights activist Stan Swamy – arrested in the Elgaar Parishad case – has refused to get shifted to any government hospital to undergo treatment for his frail health. The Jesuit priest said that he would prefer to die at Taloja jail, where he is currently lodged, instead of getting shifted to Sir JJ Hospital. Swamy, while speaking to the Bombay high court (HC) bench of justice SJ Kathawalla and justice SP Tavade through video-conferencing from Taloja jail said that when he was arrested eight months ago, he could walk, bathe and eat by himself. However, owing to the “bad conditions” at the jail, his health slowly deteriorated, and hence, he would prefer to be sent to Ranchi rather than being shifted to some hospital. In an earlier hearing, the bench while hearing Swamy’s bail application of on medical grounds was informed that as the 84-year-old was ailing from several health problems, and should be granted interim bail. His lawyers had approached HC after the special National Investigation Agency (NIA) court had rejected Swamy’s bail application in March. After hearing the application on May 19, the bench had directed Taloja jail authorities to take Swamy to Sir JJ Hospital and asked its dean to constitute a committee of expert doctors to examine the octogenarian and submit its report on Friday. The court had also sought Swamy’s presence through video-conferencing. On Friday, the court perused Sir JJ Hospital’s report which stated that Swamy’s parameters were normal, but he had severe hearing and lower back problems and general weakness. When the bench asked Swamy about his health condition, he said, “I was brought healthy to Taloja jail eight months back but over that period all my body functions have deteriorated. Though I have been getting medicines it has not helped.” On the judges’ suggestion to shift him to Sir JJ Hospital for improving his health condition, Swamy said, “The economic condition of prisoners is not good and I would prefer to die here rather than be shifted to Sir JJ Hospital. I have seen JJ hospital and would prefer to remain in Taloja jail.” When the bench suggested that Swamy be shifted to some other hospital, also he again declined. His counsel, senior advocate Mihir Desai, requested the court to grant him some time to convince the Jesuit priest, which the court allowed and posted the hearing of the application on June 7. The bench permitted Desai to approach the court prior to that if Swamy agreed to get shifted to any other hospital, like Holy Family hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/elgaar-parishad-case-would-prefer-to-die-in-jail-instead-of-going-to-hospital-accused-stan-swamy-tells-hc-101621627252010.html
22-05-2021||Other||Mohali: Mayo hospital directors, CFO in remdesivir row||Three directors of Mayo hospital in Sector 69, Mohali, have lodged a complaint against the chief finance officer (CFO) and company secretary of the hospital Mukesh Sharma for allegedly procuring remdesivir injections and selling them illegally. Remdesivir is in great demand as it used for the treatment of Covid patients.On the other hand, Sharma has also lodged a counter complaint with the police against the directors, alleging fabricating documents pertaining to the drug.In their complaint lodged by hospital directors–Deepak Tyagi, Virender Dhankhad and Dr Manoj Sharma— with senior superintendent of police (SSP) and sub-divisional magistrate, they have alleged that the CFO was found illegally procuring remdesivir injections and selling them at a premium to the patients outside the hospital with the help of his son.The complainant alleged that the matter came to light after one of the employees informed the directors about what was going on. The CFO allegedly used to inform the pharmacy employees to give injections to his son and would complete the inventory consumption record later. On May 1, a bill was issued in the name of directors Dr Manoj Sharma for two injections when he was out of station, the complaint said.Rubbishing the allegation, Mukesh Sharma said the directors were against him as he exposed their scams. “This complaint is the result of personal enmity. One of the directors even assaulted me and I even lodged a police complaint against him. A compromised was reached then. Now, I also have lodged a complaint against them for fabricating documents pertaining to the drug,” he said. Superintendent of police (city) Harwinder Singh Virk said, “We have received a complaint and are verifying it. We have also recorded the statements of employees of the hospital.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mohali-mayo-hospital-directors-cfo-in-remdesivir-row-101621627192681.html
22-05-2021||Mumbai||Barge P305 tragedy: Toll rises to 60||Four days after barge P305 (Papaa 305) sank off the coast of Mumbai in the Arabian Sea due to the extremely severe cyclonic storm that skirted the coastline earlier this week, the Indian Navy’s Search and Rescue (SAR) operations recovered 11 more bodies of crew members on Friday, taking the death toll to 60. Afcons Infrastructure Limited, which led a cornsortium that chartered P305 to complete a contract with state-owned Oil and Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC) in its Western Outshore fields, announced on Friday that it would provide compensation to the families of the deceased that would be a combination of ex-gratia pay-outs and insurance compensation and would range from ₹35 lakh to ₹75 lakh per family. The compensation would be “equivalent to balance period of service up to 10 years’ salaries” and would be paid to “not only the families of the deceased persons on its direct rolls, but also families of all deceased persons who were employed with its subcontractors,” a statement released Friday said. It also stated that it will set up a trust to support the education of the children of the deceased. ONGC on Friday also announced that it would extend an immediate relief of ₹1 lakh to the survivors and ₹2 lakh to the families of the deceased and missing crew members of P305.Afcons had on Thursday issued a statement claiming that the P305 was owned by Durmast Enterprises, and the master of the barge remained near the location even though the storm warning had been issued and conveyed to the barge on May 14. The master, Rakesh Ballav, against whom a complaint was registered at the Yellow Gate police station for endangering the lives of crew members on Friday, remains missing. The barge with 261 persons on board got unmoored on Sunday evening and sank on Monday at 7pm near Heera Oil Fields, 40 nautical miles off the Mumbai coast even as Cyclone Tauktae crossed the Konkan coastline making its way north towards Gujarat. It intensified early Monday with wind speed of 185 km/hour gusting to 200 km/hour. Five naval ships, two helicopters, an aircraft and coast guard vessels began to conduct rescue operations late Monday night onwards. So far, 186 persons have been rescued, while 15 are missing. The operations are also searching for 11 members onboard Varaprada, a tugboat which was reported missing after Cyclone Tauktae. As of Friday night, 16 bodies have been handed over to the families by the civic-run JJ Hospital, and at least 26 bodies have been identified. The Coast Guard said that the fisheries department, fishermen’s association and the coastal police of Maharashtra and Daman Diu have also been alerted to keep a lookout in shallow waters for survivors or bodies of crew members. Commander Mehul Karnik, chief public relations officer of the Western Naval Command, said that the SAR on Friday involved INS Kochi, Talwar, Tejas, Betwa and Beas. Their efforts were augmented by aerial survey undertaken by P8I surveillance aircraft and two each of Sea King, Chetak and advanced light helicopters. Coast Guard units have also joined the search for the missing crew of P305. The Indian Navy said that it was going to deploy INS Survey to start conducting underwater searches to locate the wreckage of the barge, and Varaprada. Naval officers said that they have widened the search to a rectangular area of around 3,200 square miles (80 miles north-south by 40 miles east-west). The search area, the officers said, leans more towards north of the spot where P305 capsized, as more bodies were found there. The Navy is relying more on visual search and aerial surveillance, but they are also using radars to track lifeboats or inflatable rafts floating in the sea. They added that possibility of the bodies of some crew members being trapped in the barge cannot be ruled out. The officers said that coastal police stations have been alerted about the possibility of bodies reaching the shore and instructed to immediately inform the Yellow Gate police in Mumbai in case they find any unidentified body or bodies along seashore. Of the 261 personnel on board the barge, 13 were Afcons employees while others were employees of the barge, including its marine crew as well as skilled and semi-skilled labourers on contract. “While the other barges moved to Mumbai port or outer anchorage, the Master of P305 chose to move 200m away from the platform where they were working, and to remain at that location, deciding this as a safe location since the maximum predicted wind speed was only 40 knots and his location was 120 NM [nautical miles] way from the eye of the tropical storm,” a statement issued by Afcons on Thursday read. “Durmast is the owner and the responsibility for marine operations rests with the vessel owner and his marine crew stationed on the vessel... Afcons, as charterer deploys its construction workmen and supervisors, who stay on the barge and carry out construction or revamp work on the platform,” the statement added.(With inputs from Vijay Yadav)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/barge-p305-tragedy-toll-rises-to-60-101621627193121.html
22-05-2021||Other||Ex-Mumbai top cop Param Bir Singh gets relief from arrest till Monday in atrocities case||abbas.dodhiya@htlive.com Mumbai The Bombay high court (HC) has directed the state of Maharashtra to refrain from arresting former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh in connection with a case under the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act filed against him on the basis of a complaint by an Akola cop. The complainant, inspector BR Ghadge, posted at Akola city police control room, belongs to SC community. He has alleged that as he had refused to follow Singh’s illegal orders to benefit some accused in a criminal case, Singh conspired with others and registered three extortion and a corruption case between August 23 and September 3, 2015, against him. Earlier on Friday, the vacation bench of justice SJ Kathawalla and justice SP Tavade had asked the state if they were willing to continue their stand taken on May 19, that no coercive action would be taken against Singh in the case. However, after special public prosecutor Darius Khambatta for the state said that the statement could not be continued, the bench directed the petition filed by Singh seeking the quashing of the first information report (FIR) against him to be kept last on the list of cases they would hear on their last day as vacation court judges. Singh’s counsel, senior advocate Mahesh Jethmalani, started the arguments around 10.15pm, during which he stressed that the FIR on Ghadge’s complaint was at the behest of the state government as Singh had refused to withdraw the letter he had written to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on March 20. In the letter, Singh had alleged that the then home minister Anil Deshmukh had asked Mumbai Police officers to extort ₹100 crore every month from restaurants, bars and other establishments. Jethmalani corroborated the claim of the mala fides of the state government by referring to the conversation of Maharashtra director general of police Sanjay Pandey, who allegedly asked Singh to withdraw the claims in the letter written to CM. Jethmalani further stated that the FIR, which mentions alleged atrocities under the SC and ST Act by Singh in 2015-16 when he Thane Police commissioner, was filed belatedly. This which shows that Ghadge was prompted to file the complaint by the state government to scuttle the investigation by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) which was ordered by the division bench of HC on April 5 against Deshmukh. Jethmalani concluded that Ghadge’s claim that he was from the Mahar community was not mentioned in his previous complaints and hence, resorting to it now was also proof that the state wanted to heckle Singh. However, Khambatta refuted the submissions. He argued that the complaint by Ghadge clearly made out cognisable offences against Singh and hence, the claim that the state had prodded the Akola cop could not hold. At 11.55pm, the bench stopped the hearing and said that at the stroke of midnight, they would cease to be vacation judges and hence. “As the case is already being heard, we direct the state to refrain from arresting Singh till the next hearing on Monday,” the bench said. Justice Kathawalla in his order further asked the registry to seek the permission of the chief justice on whether the same bench could continue hearing the case on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/exmumbai-top-cop-param-bir-singh-gets-relief-from-arrest-till-monday-in-atrocities-case-101621627191446.html
22-05-2021||Mumbai||Provide prisoners with medical reports, says Bombay HC||The Bombay high court (HC) on Friday directed the state prison authorities to ensure that prisoners who have been taken to a hospital for a check-up should be given their medical reports, test results and medicines prescribed as it is their right under Article 21 of the Constitution. The court further directed the prison authorities to also allow the prisoner to make a phone call to an approved family member after a visit to the hospital, outside the jail by following protocols. The directions were issued while hearing a petition filed by Maaysha Singh, the daughter of Elgar Parishad accused Sudha Bharadwaj. Singh had filed the petition seeking medical treatment for her mother who is lodged at Byculla Women’s prison and bail on medical grounds as she was not being provided medical attention and referral to a government hospital despite numerous requests. Singh informed the bench of justice SJ Kathawalla and justice SP Tavade through advocate Yug Choudhary that after the petition was filed Bharadwaj had been taken to a hospital and was made to undergo several tests. Choudhary said that before filing the petition in HC, Singh and Bharadwaj had sent numerous requests to the prison authorities to refer Bharadwaj to a hospital outside the jail, however, the same was not heeded by the prison authorities till the petition was filed. Choudhary submitted that after the petition was filed, Bharadwaj was taken to a hospital outside the jail, hence one of the requests in the petition had been satisfied. He added that he was not pressing the second request for bail on medical grounds. He said that he had two suggestions which, if the court would accept, would apply to thousands of prisoners and cut down on the number of petitions being filed in the HC. The first was to provide medical report and prescription of medicines to the prisoner as it was his/her right under Article 21 of the Constitution and the second, was to allow the prisoner to call an approved family member after hospital visit. Additional solicitor-general Anil Singh did not oppose the suggestions by Choudhary but said the prisoner should be allowed to call the approved family member but not a lawyer. Additional public prosecutor JP Yagnik for state prison authorities also did not oppose the suggestions. HC directed Byculla prison authorities to provide medical reports to Bharadwaj, and as Choudhary was not pressing for second plea of bail, it disposed of the petition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/provide-prisoners-with-medical-reports-says-bombay-hc-101621627131390.html
22-05-2021||Mumbai||Maha vaccination drive slows down||With inadequate supply from the Centre and lack of clarity from suppliers, the current vaccine shortage in Maharashtra is likely to continue for a few more weeks, according to state officials, which means, the vaccination drive for those above 45 years of age will go on at a slow pace, while it will remain suspended for the 18-44 age group. To make matters worse, the global tender floated by the government to import 50 million vaccine doses haven’t got a response from any vaccine manufacturer or supplier till May 20, forcing it to extend the date for submission of tenders till May 25. The Central government provides free vaccine doses for those in the 45 and above age group, but for the beneficiaries in the 18-44 age group, the stock has to be procured by the state government. So far, the state has procured a total of 1,989,150 doses for the 18-44 age group and has inoculated 661,016 people with first doses. The remaining stock of 1,328,134 doses is diverted for people in the 45+ age bracket, as it is not getting adequate supply from the Centre, said a senior health department official. Officials say the decision to suspend the drive for the 18-44 age group was taken owing to two reasons – Indian manufacturers have not given any confirmed supply schedule and shortage of doses for those above 45, especially for those who are due for second dose. They said the decision to resume vaccination for the 18-44 age group will be taken only when the supply is regular, which does not seem possible in the coming weeks. On Saturday, the state expects to get another stock of 521,000 doses purchased by it, but it will also be used for the 45+ age group. In addition, it will also get 26,460 doses from the Centre’s allocation. “We are expected to receive a stock of 547,460 Covishield doses on Saturday. The entire stock will be used for beneficiaries in the 45+ age group. This will continue until the state government decides to resume vaccination drive for the 18-44 age group,” said Dr Archana Patil, director, Directorate Of Health Services. “The responsibility of making the vaccine stock available is of the Centre. The state government had prepared to vaccinate people in big numbers. We have ramped up our capacity to cover 8-10 lakh beneficiaries a day, but are vaccinating with whatever is being made available to us. This is the reason we have decided to prioritize those due for the second dose and whatever is left is being used for the first dose of beneficiaries from the 45+ age group,” said state health minister Rajesh Tope. “We are following up on the issue of shortage with the Centre. We decided to suspend the vaccination drive for the 18-44 age group only to cover those who are due for second dose from 45 and above age group,” said Ajit Pawar, deputy chief minister in Pune. Serum Institute of India (SII) had promised to supply 10 million doses of Covishield per month for 18-44 age group and Bharat Biotech too had assured to provide a Covaxin stock of 2.5 million doses a month, but both are yet to give any supply schedule to the state, said a senior official, requesting anonymity. In the meantime, the Centre has also decided to regulate the 50% stock expected to be divided among the states and private hospitals etc. It means that stock will also be allocated by the Centre. This is being done to ensure adequate supplies to all states,” he added. By inoculating a total of 20,593,148 beneficiaries, Maharashtra is still at the top among all the states. The state government was also hoping to import vaccine to ramp up the vaccination drive but its move to invite bids from international market has not yielded anything yet. The state floated an express of interest (EOI) on Monday (May 17) to procure 50 million doses of the Covid-19 vaccines approved by the World Health Organization (WHO) and the United States Food and Drug Administration, and are being manufactured in other countries. The closing date was May 20. “As we have not got any response, the state government has decided to extend its deadline to May 25,” health minister Tope said on Friday. The state government is aiming at importing the doses of the vaccines manufactured by Pfizer, Johnson & Johnson, Zydus Cadila, among others. “We have tried to bring in laxity in tender rules for procuring the stock, but whatever comes under the Centre’s jurisdictions will have to be decided by them only. We want the Centre to formulate an integrated policy over distribution of vaccine stock and also decide which foreign vaccine is suitable for our country,” he stressed. The shortage of vaccines resulted in a drastic drop in the weekly vaccination rate. Between May 15 and 22, 842,501 people were inoculated, against 1,834,369 in the preceding week of May 8-14 and 1,433,165 during May 1-7. In the last week of April, 2,080,998 doses were given. On Friday, 119,973 beneficiaries were inoculated, according to the Co-Win portal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maha-vaccination-drive-slows-down-101621627131903.html
22-05-2021||Chandigarh||Have ordered 30,000 vials of drug to beat black fungus: Punjab to HC||ChandigarhThe Punjab government on Friday told the Punjab and Haryana high court that it has ordered 30,000 vials of Amphotericin-B, a drug to beat black fungus. The high court asked Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh to deliberate upon any preventive measures, which can be taken against the spread of black fungus and apprise the court on May 25. Additional solicitor general Satya Pal Jain told court that five more companies have been given licence to manufacture the drug. The court was hearing a plea in which it is monitoring Covid-19 situation in two states and UT. As regards to spread of Covid-19 in rural areas of Punjab and Haryana, Punjab advocate general Atul Nanda told court the emphasis was on providing help in the villages for which health wellness centres have been set up. Haryana’s advocate general BR Mahajan said that government has decided to continue with already established helpline number by the state in rural areas and not to put out private numbers of doctors as responsibility for attending the calls from a caller cannot be fixed or there is no mechanism to have check for the same. Punjab raises poor supply of O2 After the hearing, Nanda said the court was also urged to issue directions to the Centre to provide logistics support as the state has been able to lift only half the allocated 300 metric tonnes of oxygen as it has to ferry it from Jharkhand and Gujarat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/have-ordered-30-000-vials-of-drug-to-beat-black-fungus-punjab-to-hc-101621627012061.html
22-05-2021||Chandigarh||Black fungus: Man dies in Bathinda hospital, 71 infected in Punjab so far||Bathinda/Ludhiana Covid-triggered mucormycosis or black fungus infection is rising in Punjab. So far, 71 people have been infected with the disease and two have lost their lives. Ludhiana has reported 30 such cases, the highest in the state, followed by nine each in Amritsar and Jalandhar, eight in Patiala, six in Mohali, three in Bathinda, two each in Muktsar and Ferozepur and one each in Sangrur and Kapurthala. The South Malwa belt of the state reported its first black fungus death, second in the state, on Friday when a 62-year-old Covid patient of Gidderbaha town of Muktsar district died of the infection at Adesh Medical College and Hospital in Bathinda. Muktsar civil surgeon Dr Ranju Singla said the patient was under treatment at the Bathinda facility for the last five days. He underwent eye surgery after developing black fungus and later succumbed to fungus-related complications.“Black fungus has actually emerged as a pandemic within a pandemic. There is a shortage of Amphotericin-B, the injectable drug required to treat the disease,” said a senior health official.Bathinda has reported three black fungus cases, two each in Muktsar and Ferozepur. One patient of Moga undergoing Covid treatment was found infected whereas no such case is reported from Faridkot, Mansa and Fazilka.Sangrur man dies in PGIMER A 32-year-old man from Sangrur succumbed to the disease at Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh, on May 16. “The district has reported only one case of black fungus so far,” said Sangrur civil surgeon Dr Anjana Gupta.Ludhiana worst-hit Ludhiana has 30 confirmed and six suspected cases of black fungus, said civil surgeon Dr Kiran Ahluwalia, adding that a patient died of suspected mucormycosis on Wednesday at a private hospital, which is being verified by a panel of doctors. Sixteen patients are admitted to Dayanand Medical College and Hospital, six in SPS Hospital, four in Deep Hospital, two in Christian Medical College and Hospital and one each in Mohan Dai Oswal and Fortis Hospital.Nine cases in Amritsar Amritsar has reported nine cases of black fungus and all patients are undergoing treatment at hospitals in the city. “These patients were infected or have recovered from Covid and their condition is stable. We are collecting data of patients and will report to the state health department,” said Amritsar civil surgeon Dr Charanjit Singh.Jalandhar deputy medical commissioner Dr Jyoti Sharma said seven patients suffering from of black fungus are under treatment while two have been referred to other districts. One case has been detected in Kapurthala district on Friday, said the health authorities. 8 infected in Patiala Of the eight cases in Patiala, four were reported in Government Medical College and Rajindra Hospital and others in private hospitals in the past one week. Civil surgeon Dr Satinder Singh said there are two suspected cases in private hospitals and their samples have been sent for investigation. Health dept plays down rise in casesEven as the district health authorities are confirming rise in cases of black fungus, the state health authorities in Chandigarh say only three cases have been reported from across Punjab so far. “Punjab has three cases of black fungus to date. While two cases are confirmed, one more suspect case has been reported on Friday,” said state’s nodal officer for Covid-19 and black fungus Dr Rajesh Bhaskar. He said district administrations have not yet reported to the state headquarters about the presence of large number of cases. (With inputs from Sangrur, Patiala, Amritsar, Jalandhar and Chandigarh)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/black-fungus-man-dies-in-bathinda-hospital-71-infected-in-punjab-so-far-101621626952506.html
22-05-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Ex-journalist to be quizzed for bouncer’s murder||Accused in a property grab case, former journalist with a Hindi daily, Sanjiv Mahajan, will now be quizzed with regard to the murder of bouncer-cum-financier Surjit Singh, who was gunned down in March last year. Mahajan’s is the first arrest in Surjit murder case though police are yet to nominate him as an accused. Mahajan is lodged in Burail jail in connection with the property grab case in which slain bouncer Surjit was also named as an accused. Mahajan was arrested along with realtor Manish Gupta, Satpal Dagar, brother of deputy superintendent of police Ram Gopal, and Chandigarh Police inspector Rajdeep Singh in the property grab case. Chandigarh Police on March 2 had booked around 10 people, including slain bouncer Surjit Singh, for kidnapping and torturing Rahul Mehta, the sole heir of his family, in April 2017 to secure the general power of attorney of his 338-square-yard house and selling it to Manish Gupta’s brother for ₹2.9 crore in March 2019. “We have brought him on production warrants as we had some leads against Mahajan. He was formally arrested but his involvement is part of investigations. In case his role emerges, he will be nominated as an accused,” said Kuldeep Singh Chahal, senior superintendent of police, Chandigarh. Earlier, Mahajan moved an application for his narco and brain mapping test in connection to Surjit’s murder case which was dismissed by the court. He also moved an application before the court to allow his counsel to be present during the questioning and medical examination, which was allowed. The court, however, dismissed his request to install CCTV cameras where his interrogation will be done. Surjit’s wife suspected Mahajan’s involvement Mahajan was on Friday produced before a court and remanded to two-day police custody. Police had procured Mahajan’s production warrants after Surjit’s wife Meenakshi raised suspicion that Mahajan could be involved in the murder of her husband. “In her statement before the police, Meenakshi claimed that Mahajan and Surjit developed differences owing to financial transactions which may have led to the murder of her husband,” said Shruti Arora, assistant superintendent of police (ASP, South), Chandigarh. She added, “We have got his remand and will question him. If anything conclusive comes up against him, further action will be taken up accordingly.” Gangster Bambiha group had already claimed responsibility for gunning down Surjit Singh (39). The gang through social media had bragged about the murder of Surjit to avenge the killing of bouncer Amit Sharma at Saketri. Surjit was shot dead by two bike-borne unidentified people around 11pm on March 16, 2020, in Sector 38 (West). As per the police, Surjit was considered a sympathiser of gangster Lawrence Bishnoi. He was into business of supplying bouncers in the Tricity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-ex-journalist-to-be-quizzed-for-bouncer-s-murder-101621626891909.html
22-05-2021||Other||Antilia case: Kazi dismissed from Mumbai Police||Assistant police inspector (API) Riyaz Hisamuddin Kazi – who has been arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in the Antilia explosives scare case and the subsequent murder of Thane-based auto parts dealer Mansukh Hiran – has been summarily dismissed from service.Mumbai Police commissioner Hemant Nagrale on Friday issued an order under Article 311(2) (B) of the Constitution, dismissing Kazi with immediate effect without a departmental inquiry. The police chief observed that Kazi’s conduct was more like a “seasoned criminal rather than a police officer”, and that he shows “very grave delinquency” which is enough to justify his dismissal under Article 311(2) (b) without holding a disciplinary inquiry. Kazi is a former colleague of controversial former cop Sachin Vaze, who was also arrested by NIA for allegedly being the mastermind of both the cases. Vaze, who was an assistant inspector, had been dismissed from service on May 11.NIA arrested Kazi on April 11 and he is in judicial custody along with the other accused in the case. After prima facie ascertaining his role in the two cases, NIA had sent a report on his involvement in the crime to Mumbai Police, following which the proceedings for his dismissal from the service have been initiated.During the process, senior police officers observed that NIA’s investigation indicates that Kazi was involved in the conspiracy along with Vaze in placing the explosives-laden SUV outside Antilia and in Hiran’s murder. He also allegedly destroyed the CPU and DVR and other important materials in this offence, which incriminates him. The hammer used to destroy the gadgets, which were important evidences in the Antilia case, was recovered from Kazi’s house by NIA.The dismissal order issued by Nagrale stated that Kazi along with Vaze was also allegedly involved in commission of offences of impersonation, forgery and disappearance of evidence. Considering all these facts, the police commissioner observed that Kazi “indulged in a grave, remiss, perverse conduct, unbecoming of a police officer, and thereby undermining the mandate of duties and responsibilities assigned to him as a police officer”.“Kazi in connivance with Vaze, allegedly abused his official position to commit serious crimes, becoming a part of conspiracy, destruction of evidence etc., having propensity to seriously jeopardise law and order in the state,” Nagrale observed. It was also observed that “Kazi was fully aware of duties and responsibilities assigned to him as a police officer. He was duty bound for keeping utmost integrity and its strict enforcement and compliance”.The former API had joined the police force as a constable on October 17, 2001. He was selected as police sub-inspector on October 7, 2010, and was promoted to the post of API on August 8, 2014. He was posted in Mumbai crime branch’s crime intelligence unit (CIU), headed by Vaze, when a Scorpio car with 20 loose gelatin sticks and a threatening note addressed to Mukesh Ambani and his family was found parked outside the industrialist’s south Mumbai residence Antilia on February 25. A case was registered at Gamdevi police station and Vaze was investigating the case for the first two days. Later, it was transferred to Maharashtra anti-terrorism squad (ATS). NIA took over the case on March 8, three days after Hiran, the owner of the Scorpio, was found dead in creek near Mumbra. Vaze was arrested on March 13, after his alleged involvement in the explosives case came to light. He had purportedly devised the plan to regain his lost glory in Mumbai Police. He was later arrested for Hiran’s murder too.Meanwhile, Kazi was transferred to Tardeo local arms division, which is considered to be a side branch.NIA has also arrested inspector Sunil Mane, former constable Vinayak Shinde – who is serving life imprisonment in a fake encounter killing case – and cricket bookie Naresh Gor for allegedly aiding Vaze.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/antilia-case-kazi-dismissed-from-mumbai-police-101621626831316.html
22-05-2021||Chandigarh||No Covid-related death in P’kula after 27 days||After almost a month, no Covid-related death was report from Panchkula district even as 206 people—127 males and 79 females—tested positive on Friday. With this the total number of cases reported in district so far went up to 28,866 out of which 1,834 are active. The district recorded 307 deaths so far. The recovery rate in the district is 92.58%. Good response to drive through vaccination The health authorities on Friday started drive through vaccination at the Sector 5 Parade Ground for the age group of 18 to 44 years in the district which was inaugurated by Haryana assembly speaker Gian Chand Gupta. Even though the drive was to start at 9am people had started queuing up since early morning. Long queues of car were seen lined up on the road to the parade ground. “The drive through vaccination drive started off to an encouraging response,” said Gupta. He said ‘vaccination on wheels’ will be held for two days and on each day, two sessions will be held, from 9am till 12 noon and then from 4pm to 6pm. Apart from this, Gupta said vaccination is being administrated at 22 places in the district. On Friday, 6,015 people from different age groups got the jab of which 5,958 were administered the first dose while 57 got their second shot.UT again matches its own daily highest Covid death tollFourteen people succumbed to Covid-19 in Chandigarh on Friday ,taking the toll to 680. Also, 406 new infections were reported in the city.Chandigarh has reported 14 deaths —highest in a single day—twice before on May 5 and May 12.The Covid-19 case tally in Chandigarh stand at 57,737, of which 5,675 cases are active. As per officials, 790 patients were discharged on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/no-covid-related-death-in-p-kula-after-27-days-101621626772132.html
22-05-2021||Chandigarh||Bargari sacrilege: Police custody of 3 dera followers extended till May 24||The court of judicial magistrate, Faridkot, on Friday extended the police custody of three Dera Sacha Sauda followers arrested for 2015 Bargari sacrilege by three days. The other three accused who tested positive for Covid-19 were sent to judicial custody. The SIT led by inspector general of police (IGP), border range, Surinder Pal Singh Parmar, on Sunday arrested Sukhjinder Singh, alias Sunny, Nishan Singh, Ranjit Singh, alias Bhola, and Pardeep Kumar, all resident of Kotkapura, Shakti Singh of Daggu Romana village and Baljit Singh of Sikhanwala village in a case registered in connection with a sacrilege incident at Bargari village in Faridkot district in 2015.The Faridkot court on Monday had sent them in police custody till May 21, but Sukhjinder, Baljit and Nishan tested positive on Tuesday after which they were admitted to the isolation ward of Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital, where they are undergoing treatment. The other three accused were presented before the court of judicial magistrate, which extended their police remand till May 24.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bargari-sacrilege-police-custody-of-3-dera-followers-extended-till-may-24-101621626712160.html
22-05-2021||Delhi||Road safety expert Prof Dinesh Mohan dies of Covid at 75||Dinesh Mohan, honorary professor of the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Delhi, and leading road safety and transportation expert, the man behind the now scrapped bus rapid transit (BRT) system in Delhi, succumbed to Covid-19 on Friday. He was 75.Mohan was undergoing treatment for Covid-19 at Delhi’s St Stephen’s Hospital when he died on Friday morning following a cardiac arrest.Colleagues, friends, and students remembered Mohan as a “great humanist”, and a fervent supporter of human rights, besides being a noted name in academia. An alumnus of IIT-Bombay and University of Michigan, Mohan was also known for his work in areas of advancing motorcycle helmet design.Professor Mohan started his career with the Insurance Institute for Highway Safety in Washington DC, USA. Since 1976, he was with IIT-Delhi’s Centre of Biomedical Engineering, where he did pioneering work through the establishment of the Transportation Research and Injury Prevention Program (TRIPP) at the institute.In a message on Friday, IIT-Delhi director V Ramgopal Rao said, “He was a great humanist and fervent supporter of individual rights. The Delhi Declaration on People’s Right to Safety is one such example, besides many others...It is a huge loss for all faculty, students, and staff at TRIPP and all those known to him at IIT-Delhi and the traffic safety community in India and the world. We pray to the almighty to give his family strength to overcome this huge loss.”Geetam Tiwari, professor of civil engineering and transportation planning, IIT-Delhi, said Mohan always rooted for more sustainable modes of public transport. “He designed Delhi’s BRT. The whole idea was there, but the press treated it very poorly, without understanding much. So, it was scrapped by the government,” she said.The BRT project was implemented by the chief minister Sheila Dikshit-led Congress government in 2008. However, it was not well-received, and scrapped in 2016.Delhi transport commissioner Ashish Kundra said Mohan was a doyen of sustainable urban transport. “A great thinker and a progressive mind, he always infused new ideas and energy for urban transport solutions in Delhi. I had sought time from him separately for guidance. But, that wasn’t meant to be,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/road-safety-expert-prof-dinesh-mohan-dies-of-covid-at-75-101621625454929.html
22-05-2021||Chandigarh||PGIMER receiving at least 10 black fungus cases daily||Mucormycosis or black fungus, which has been declared an epidemic in several states, is being detected in 10 patients on an average daily at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), microbiologists say. Most of the patients are those who have recovered from Covid-19.Mucormycosis is an invasive infection caused by a class of moulds called mucormycetes. The fungus enters the body by inhalation and affects the sinuses or lungs. The infection is primarily found in Covid positive patients and is caused by indiscriminate use of steroids, uncontrolled diabetes, prolonged stay in the ICU and comorbidities.Professor Arunaloke Chakrabarti, head of PGIMER’s microbiology department on Friday said the institute is recording a spike in cases of the fungal infection with most patients landing up in the emergency ward.Prof Chakraborty, one of the members who drafted the government advisory on mucormycosis and also a part of the Fungal Infection Study Forum, said there was a need to start dedicated service for the infection as non-Covid medical services are currently closed which may result in delay reporting such cases.“Currently we are detecting 10-15 infections daily. Patients from across the region are reporting in emergency with clinical symptoms. If the patient is still Covid-19 positive, they are shifted to the dedicated Covid-19 block and others are managed in different areas,” he said.Docs raise logistics issuesHowever, doctors say there are logistics issues in treating infected patients as most OPDs are shut and it is difficult to detect the fungus through teleconsultation. Prof Chakraborti said he has been raising this issue on every forum that post-Covid-19 clinics should have ENT specialists who can cater to such patients and a few states have also agreed to the suggestion.“Serious logistics issues are there. It will be difficult to detect early symptoms through tele-consultation and patients will land up in the emergency wards with acute complications. So, this needs to be dealt with on priority,” he said.6 new cases at GMCH-32On Friday, Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, also reported 6 cases of this infection, taking the number of such patients in the hospital to 22.Dr Jagdish Chander, former head of the microbiology department at the hospital who is currently part of a panel constituted by the college for tracking and treating such cases, said people should check for pain in the left or right side of the face, nasal blockage, nasal discharge. Delay in diagnosis can cause double vision, blurring, or protrusion of the eye.Nine patients are from Punjab, seven from Haryana, while two patients each from Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand.Meanwhile, Haryana health authorities said six mucormycosis patients were hospitalised in Panchkula. Only one of the patients is a resident of Panchkula, rest are referral cases from Delhi NCR region and other parts of the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pgimer-receiving-at-least-10-black-fungus-cases-daily-101621626606993.html
22-05-2021||Other||Missing captain of barge P305 booked by Mumbai Police on crew’s complaint||Yellow gate police in Mumbai on Friday registered an offence against the captain of the barge, Papaa305 (P305), which sank in the Arabian Sea during Cyclone Tauktae, resulting in the loss of at least 60 lives. The case was filed on the basis of a complaint lodged by a crew member of the accommodation barge.Police have booked the barge’s captain Rakesh Ballav – who is still missing –and some others under sections 304(II) (an act done with knowledge that it is likely to cause death), 338 (causing grievous hurt by an act endangering life or personal safety of others) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code.“We have registered a case against the captain and others on the basis of a statement given by 49-year-old Mistafizur Rahman Hussain Shaikh, who was a part of the maintenance crew of the barge,” joint commissioner of police (law and order) Vishwas Nangre Patil said. Shaikh has accused Ballav and others of “overlooking the weather alerts and failing to take appropriate care despite knowing that the lapse could result in loss of lives”.In his statement given to Yellow Gate police, the Malad resident said that the barge was anchored near an unmanned platform in Heera oil fields in Bombay High. “Around 11.00pm on Sunday, the wind speed started to increase and an hour later, the speed almost doubled and the crew could hear the roaring storm. At about 2am, two of the eight anchor cables of the barge gave way and the captain sent a distress message to a tug boat which was supposed to be in the vicinity. However, the boat was about 16 nautical miles away and expressed inability to move in the stormy weather,” he told the police. Shaikh added that around 4am, two more anchor cables broke and the barge started experiencing major jerks. Eventually by 8am, all the anchors gave way and the barge started drifting when the wind speed was about 60-70 knots. He said later the barge hit a platform at about 9.45am and water started gushing inside. It was then that the captain sent a distress signal to the Navy and other authorities, said Shaikh.An officer attached to Yellow Gate police station said that they have recorded statements of more than 100 survivors of barge P305 rescued by the Indian Navy and the Coast Guard.According to Afcons Infrastructure, which lead the consortium that had chartered the ill-fated barge along with its marine crew, the captain of P305 chose to stay in the sea despite receiving instructions for returning to Mumbai Harbour in the wake of warnings for Cyclone Tauktae.The Navy has so far rescued 186 on-board the barge and recovered 60 bodies of the crew members. A search is on for the 15 remaining members of P305. The Navy is also looking for 11 crew members of a tug boat, Varaprada, which had gone missing after the cyclone, which is the severest to have hit the Konkan coast in two decades.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/missing-captain-of-barge-p305-booked-by-mumbai-police-on-crew-s-complaint-101621626592381.html
22-05-2021||Chandigarh||Rumblings in Cong: Central leadership watching situation in Punjab, says Venugopal||Amid raging infighting in its state unit in Punjab, the Congress on Friday said the party leadership is watching the developments in the state and will take a call on the situation. Congress general secretary KC Venugopal said the issue is strictly an organisational matter and the party high command is aware of the developments. “Of course, internally, we are watching the situation in Punjab and the high command will take a call on that,” he told reporters at a virtual press briefing when asked about the internal bickering in the state unit with chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh and former state minister Navjot Singh Sidhu openly hitting out at each other. Sidhu, Rajya Sabha MP Partap Singh Bajwa and a couple of party MLAs have been openly targeting the chief minister ever since the Punjab and Haryana high court quashed the SIT report in the 2015 Kotkapura police firing case. They are blaming the chief minister and his aides for the legal setback and seeking the party central leadership’s intervention. Punjab Congress chief Sunil Jakhar on Thursday cautioned party workers to be wary of leaders fuelling dissent to further their own agenda even as Sidhu gave a call to party MLAs to go to Delhi and tell the high command about the real situation in the state. There has been speculation about the constitution of a three-member committee to resolve the differences between the warring groups, but party leaders in Delhi and Punjab denied having any information in this regard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/rumblings-in-cong-central-leadership-watching-situation-in-punjab-says-venugopal-101621626591902.html
22-05-2021||Delhi||Another rain spell keeps Delhi’s AQI, mercury low||The Capital woke up to a surprise spell of rain on Friday caused by a fresh western disturbance, weather officials said, a day after incessant showers broke the all-time 24-hour rainfall record for May.Kuldeep Srivastava, head of the India Meteorological Department’s regional weather forecasting centre, said that till 8.30am on Friday, the Safdarjung weather station, considered the official marker for the city, received 2.6mm rainfall. The Palam observatory received 5.8mm rainfall, the Lodi Road station received 3.2mm, and Aya Nagar got 10.6mm.Weather officials said several parts of Delhi saw rain between 5am and 10am. However, Srivastava said that while Wednesday and Thursday’s showers were under the impact of cyclonic storm Tauktae, Friday’s rain was caused by a fresh western disturbance that passed over the Capital.“The residual clouds of Tauktae cyclonic storm have passed. What we saw on Friday was the impact of a fresh western disturbance. There could be some light rain in the early morning hours in Delhi and the National Capital Region (NCR) over the weekend. But temperatures will rise now,” said Srivastava.The rain and the gusty winds on Friday kept Delhi’s air quality in the “satisfactory” category for the third consecutive day. Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) recordings showed that the city’s overall air quality index (AQI) was 85. On Thursday, Delhi recorded an AQI of 58, also “satisfactory”.On Friday, IMD recordings showed that the maximum temperature at the Safdarjung observatory was 33.1 degrees Celsius, seven degrees below normal.The minimum temperature was 19.4°C, also seven degrees below normal.Met officials, however, said the temperature is expected to touch 39°C by May 29.Delhi, between Wednesday and Thursday, recorded the highest rainfall to ever be recorded in 24 hours in the month of May. On Wednesday-Thursday, Safdarjung weather station recorded 119.3 mm rainfall, induced by Cyclone Tauktae’s after-effects.Monsoon likely to keep May 31 date with KeralaThe monsoon advanced into some parts of southwest and most parts of southeast Bay of Bengal, and South Andaman Sea and Nicobar Islands on Friday, a day ahead of its normal onset date of May 22, said IMD.“Monsoon is likely to make an onset over Kerala around May 31, one to two days here or there,” Sunitha Devi, in charge of cyclones at IMD, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/another-rain-spell-keeps-delhi-s-aqi-mercury-low-101621625589564.html
22-05-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab logs 172 deaths, 5,278 new Covid cases||Punjab on Friday registered 172 more deaths due to Covid-19 as 5,278 fresh cases pushed the state’s infection tally to 5,28,676, according to a medical bulletin.So far, the infection has claimed 12,888 lives in the state. Twenty-three deaths were reported from Ludhiana, 19 each from Patiala and Bathinda and 13 from Mohali. Ludhiana reported the maximum 687 cases, followed by 565 in Bathinda, 486 in Mohali and 380 in Patiala. Meanwhile, 8,652 people recovered from the infection. The number of active cases also declined from 67,041 on Thursday to 63,470 on Friday, as per the bulletin. The state’s positivity rate also dropped from 7.03% on Thursday to 6.92%, it said. With 8,652 recoveries, the number of cured persons reached 4,52,318.There are 418 critical patients who are on ventilator while 7,448 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said. A total of 85,56,117 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-logs-172-deaths-5-278-new-covid-cases-101621626232105.html
22-05-2021||Chandigarh||Pak’s Khyber Pakhtunkhwa govt to restore 19th century gurdwara||The provincial government in Pakistan’s Khyber Pakhtunkhwa will renovate a 19 century gurdwara built during the reign of Sikh ruler Hari Singh Nalwa and open it for devotees.Presently, the gurdwara in Mansehra district is closed and acts as a makeshift library, officials said.The provincial government said restoration of the gurdwara would promote religious tourism as a large number of Sikh devotees from across the world have evinced interest to visit the shrine.In February this year, the provincial Auqaf and Religious Affairs Department had recommended the local government to take up the restoration proposal with the Evacuee Property Trust Board (EPTB) in Lahore.The EPTB is a statutory board that manages religious properties and shrines of Hindus and Sikhs who migrated to India after Partition.The EPTB has declared the gurdwara as historic asset and directed the department of local government, KPK, to vacate the building, including the library.The Pakistan Sikh Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee has welcomed the restoration plan.Hari Singh Nalwa (1791–1837) was the commander of the Sikh Empire and is remembered for the battles in Kasur, Sialkot, Attock, Multan, Kashmir, Peshawar and Jamrud. Over 50 buildings, including forts, towers, gurdwaras, tanks, are said to be built under his direct supervision.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/paks-khyber-pakhtunkhwa-govt-to-restore-19th-century-gurdwara-101621625992553.html
22-05-2021||Lucknow||New system of appointments ordered in UP universities||Faculty members in all state universities will now be appointed in accordance with a uniform and transparent system designed by a team of five vice chancellors on UP governor Anandiben Patel’s directions.The governor on Friday ordered the adoption of the new system that gives separate weightage to measure different skills and academic qualifications of the candidates.For the appointment of assistant professor, weightage of 20 marks will be given for basic academic qualifications at the graduate level. Thirty marks have been allotted for Academic Performance Indicators (API).The candidates will be given weightage of 20 marks each for their subject knowledge and the ability to teach that subject. Another 10 marks’ weightage will be given for the interview, thus making it a total of 100 marks.Applicants will be graded using this weightage system before their selection. The process, according to experts, will make the appointment process transparent and objective.AKTU vice chancellor Professor Vinay Kumar Pathak said the old system was subjective with more weightage for the personal interview, making the process less transparent.He said, “I am hopeful that the new system will make appointments more transparent and fairer.”Under new system, a scrutiny committee will assess the basic academic score and conduct an objective examination of the subject. The marks for each weightage will be released before the final appointment, allowing the candidates to raise their objections if any.The shortlisted candidates will also be asked to prepare a PowerPoint presentation on the subject and teach it to a class of 15 to 20 students to test their subject knowledge and teaching abilities.Audio and video of recordings of the entire selection process, especially the physical interview, will be made and stored for at least three months after appointment so that it can be used in case any discrepancy arises. A similar weightage system will also be used for the appointment of associate professors and professors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/new-transparent-system-of-appointments-ordered-in-up-state-universities-101621625931285.html
22-05-2021||Other||Uttar Pradesh govt extends last date for submission of vaccine bids by 10 days||The Uttar Pradesh government on Friday extended by 10 days the last date for submission of the bids to supply 40 million doses of Covid vaccines till May 31.Additional chief secretary (health and family welfare) Amit Mohan Prasad said the last date was extended on the request of the vaccine manufacturing companies that were keen to participate in the global tender floated by the state government to procure vaccines. May 21 was the last date earlier, he said.Representatives of various companies told the state government that some of them were yet to get the regulatory approval from the central government, Prasad said. Others said that they needed time to maintain the vaccine stock as, according to the bid conditions, the companies would have to supply the second dose after the first one, he added. The representative of another company said that they needed time for obtaining approval for the vaccine rate, Prasad said.Additional chief secretary (information) Navneet Sehgal said the state government will approach foreign Covid vaccine manufacturers to ramp up the vaccine stock and get the supply soon.In the pre-bid qualification meeting held on May 13, top vaccine manufacturing companies — Dr Reddy’s Laboratories, Zydus Cadila, Pfizer, Serum Institute of India (SII), Bharat Biotech and a Korean company — had raised the issues of storage and transportation of the vaccines and bid security.The state government on May 17 had revised the supply conditions, bid security and eligibility terms for the bidders to pave the way for the participation of maximum companies.In the revised tender, the state government has stated that the manufacturers of vaccines requiring storage or transportation at temperatures like -20 degrees Celsius, -70s degree Celsius or -80 degrees Celsius can participate in the tender. It would pave the way for the entry of foreign vaccine manufacturers like Moderna, Pfizer and Johnson and Johnson in the global tender, Sehgal said.“The more vaccines we get, the maximum number of people will be vaccinated quickly,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/up-extends-last-date-for-submission-of-vaccine-bids-by-10-days-101621625331193.html
22-05-2021||Delhi||Problem is supply, not distribution: Delhi health minister Jain on antifungal for mucormycosis||State health minister Satyendar Jain on Friday said that the Capital was beset in its fight against the rising black fungus threat by a shortage of the antifungal medicine Amphotericin B, and added that there were no hiccups in its distribution.“There is a shortage of the medicine across the country; the Centre has taken control of it and it is being allocated as per quota to states. Delhi has been allocated around 2,000 doses,” said Jain in a press briefing.“Delhi had 197 people with the infection admitted to various hospitals till Wednesday night. Every patient needs several injections each day; if Delhi’s requirement is, say, 4,000 injections, and we are given 1,000 injections, there will be a problem. It is similar to the oxygen situation; when Delhi needed 600 MT of oxygen we were given 300 MT and people said there was a distribution problem.”The Delhi government has set up a four-member committee that looks at hospitals’ demand for the drug after patient information is submitted and gives a go-ahead for the Directorate General of Health Services to dispatch it. As per submissions in the Delhi high court, every patient needs 42 vials of the injection per week.Black fungus has been found mostly among people with uncontrolled diabetes, whose immunity is compromised, or among people who are given excessive steroids or immunity-modulating drugs such as tocilizumab. According to doctors, if left untreated, it could kill up to 80% of those infected. If not detected early, it affects the orbit of the eye and the mouth, resulting in people losing their vision or jaw during debridement — the process of removing dead tissue from an infection or wound.The country has seen a sharp rise in the number of mucormycosis cases as a complication in patients with Covid-19, forcing people and state governments to scramble for Amphotericin B, the only drug that can treat the fungal infection. In the Capital alone, about 200 patients are admitted in hospitals with the infection. Usually, major hospitals in the city see no more than 10 cases of the infection in a year.To address shortage of the drug, the Centre on Thursday allowed five more firms to manufacture Amphotericin B, even as the Delhi high court asked it to get medicines from abroad.To prevent the infection, Jain said, “Please take steroids only on the advice of a doctor. Do not continue taking the medicine even after the doctor has stopped it. In some diabetics, the sugar level shoots up because of steroid use and they have to be prescribed insulin injection. But, they stop taking it once they are home. Please don’t do that. At the moment, controlling diabetes is more important, you will be able to get off the injection in a few days.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/problem-is-supply-not-distribution-jain-on-antifungal-for-mucormycosis-101621624650713.html
22-05-2021||Other||UP’s tally of RT-PCR tests crosses 20 million, says state govt||The tally of RT-PCR (reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction) tests, considered the gold standard of Covid-19 testing, crossed the two crore (20 million) mark in Uttar Pradesh on Thursday, the state government said on Friday. The state’s total of all Covid-19 sample tests stood at 4.61 crore (46.1 million) till Thursday, it added.Additional chief secretary (information and micro, small and medium enterprises) Navneet Sehgal said the state government was organising aggressive sample testing to break the Covid-19 infection chain in the urban and rural areas of the state.Within a year, Uttar Pradesh conducted two crore RT-PCR tests, he said, adding that the state had set a target of 1.50 lakh RT-PCR tests per day.In March last year, Uttar Pradesh’s first Covid case was reported from Agra and the samples were sent to National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune and National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), New Delhi since Uttar Pradesh, at the time, had no facility to test the Sars-Cov-2 pathogen that causes the Covid-19. Later, the state’s first Covid-19 laboratory became functional at King George’s Medical University (KGMU) and it tested just 72 samples on March 23 last year, he added.By April-end this year, the state had a network of 125 government and 104 private laboratories. Twelve laboratories set up by the state health and family welfare department in the backward districts as well as 24 laboratories established by medical education department in the autonomous medical colleges, medical institutes and medical universities in May had given a boost to the RT-PCR tests, the senior official said. The state government was focusing on tests to check the spread of Covid-19 in the rural areas, he added.Surveillance teams have surveyed 89,512 villages and positive cases have been detected in 28,742 villages. Antigen tests are being conducted in the rural areas. Those villagers who had Covid-like symptoms despite the antigen test report being negative underwent RT-PCR test, Sehgal said.Principal secretary (medical education) Alok Kumar said the state government was constantly working to increase the number of RT-PCR tests to identify infected people and isolate them to break the infection chain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ups-tally-of-rt-pcr-tests-crosses-20-million-says-state-govt-101621624911155.html
22-05-2021||Other||Covid deaths during poll duty: SEC says rulebook to be changed soon||Lucknow State election commissioner (SEC) Manoj Kumar said here on Friday that the commission would modify the guidelines by early next week so that the kin of more government staff and others who died of Covid while on poll duty may get adequate compensation. “I will soon hold a meeting with chief secretary RK Tiwari and additional chief secretary, Panchyati Raj, Manoj Kumar Singh to amend the guidelines so that kin of more government staff may benefit. This is the least we can do for the families of those who lost their lives,” said the SEC. He said, “There are a few things that are under consideration. We will make modifications and amendments to frame new modalities. We held a few discussions over phone and once we are able to give a final shape to the amended guidelines, we will share them with the press.” “It will not take more than three days to effect change in the state election commission guidelines. A couple of formal meetings should be enough to amend and modify the guidelines to bring a change in the rule book,” he said on telephone. Chief secretary RK Tiwari said, “Some formal order will be issued very soon in a day or two, effecting changes in the state election commission guidelines. We are revisiting the guidelines and discussions are going on. The idea is to cover more deserving cases. After the process is complete, we will issue a formal order.” Additional chief secretary Panchyati Raj, Manoj Kumar Singh said, “This has to be done with retrospective effect so that the next of kin of government staff who died a few days after completion of panchyat elections may get the benefit. Amendment is possible in election duty guidelines,” he said. To note, on Thursday chief minister Yogi Adityanath said arrangements should be made to give compensation to the dependants of those on election duty who died due to corona infection. “Since the guidelines of the state election commission were put into place when we had not even heard of corona, the commission is requested to amend the rules to provide proper help to the affected families,” the CM said. The chief minister also said: “As the guidelines are old, of a time when Covid did not exist, so there is a need to have a relook with sympathy.” The CM’s directive comes at a time when teachers’ associations have raised the issue that a total of 1,621 government school staff died after they contracted Covid infection during election duty. Hindustan Times has been reporting extensively on the issue, including the need to change the guidelines. In a report, HT spoke to several experts, including former chief election commissioner of India SY Quraishi who said the state government and the state election commission (SEC) should go for a “liberal interpretation” in case of casualty of government staff deployed on election duty, especially when the country was facing the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid-deaths-during-poll-duty-sec-says-rulebook-to-be-changed-soon-101621624070922.html
22-05-2021||Other||UP govt declares black fungus a notifiable disease||Lucknow: The Uttar Pradesh government has declared mucormycosis (black fungus), a life-threatening fungal infection increasingly seen in Covid-19 patients, a notifiable disease following the central government’s Thursday advisory. The move comes after chief minister Yogi Adityanath asked the officers concerned to take necessary action and issue the relevant order on Friday itself. The chief minister also asked them to collect all relevant details like full case history and line of treatment of all the patients who were under treatment for black fungus in government hospitals, medical colleges, or private hospitals and submit them to the black fungus medical expert committee. “This will help the experts in evolving a better line of treatment for the disease”, Yogi said. Telangana, Odisha, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Rajasthan and Gujarat have already declared black fungus a notifiable disease since the central government issued the advisory to the states. Uttar Pradesh has already reported 289 cases of black fungus infection in post-Covid patients of which eight have died. A notifiable disease is any disease that is required by law to be reported to government authorities. This allows the authorities to monitor the disease and provides early warning of possible outbreaks. The Centre wrote a letter to all the states and union territories on Thursday, asking them to declare mucormycosis or black fungus a notifiable disease under the Epidemic Diseases Act 1897. At the Covid review meeting with Team-9 Yogi said: “ The state government, after consultation with the medical experts’ panel, is making arrangements for suitable treatment of black fungus cases. Following the advisory of the central government, black fungus should be declared notifiable diseases. The officers concerned should issue the order and make it effective today itself.” Yogi said that arrangements should also be made to ensure sufficient availability of drugs for black fungus’ treatment in all districts of the state. At the meeting, the officers told the chief minister that all districts had been provided drugs for mucormycosis treatment. The patients who were undergoing black fugus treatment in private hospitals may also get the medicines by applying to the divisional commissioner concerned. Mucormycosis is commonly seen in Covid-19 patients who are in the recovery phase of the disease. It usually infects people whose immune system has been compromised due to co-morbidities such as diabetes, kidney or heart failure or cancer. The symptoms of the fungal infection include blackening or discolouration over the nose, blurred or double vision, chest pain, breathing difficulties and coughing blood.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/up-govt-declares-black-fungus-a-notifiable-disease-101621623711015.html
22-05-2021||Mumbai||Health deteriorated after arrest, says Stan Swamy; seeks bail||Activist Stan Swamy, an accused in the Elgar Parishad case who has been in Navi Mumbai’s Taloja jail for eight months, told the Bombay high court on Friday that his health had deteriorated rapidly after his arrest and that he would rather “suffer and possibly die” than get hospitalised in Mumbai.The 84-year-old told a bench of justices SJ Kathawalla and SP Tavade that his health was severely affected after his arrest on October 2020, and the previous two bouts of hospitalisation in Mumbai had not helped improve his condition. Instead, he said he wished to go back to his home town Ranchi on bail.“The main issue is that eight months ago I could take a bath by myself; I could take a walk; I could do some writing by myself. But all of these are disappearing...,” the Jesuit priest said.The bench asked if Swamy would prefer to get “general treatment” at the state-run JJ Hospital, to which the 84-year-old responded that he didn’t think admission to the medical facility would do him any good.“What medicines will the JJ Hospital give me? I have been there twice. I know the set-up. I don’t want to go there,” Swamy said. “I would rather suffer and possibly die,” he said, insisting that he be granted interim bail.The court, however, said it was hearing arguments on the issue of hospital admission, and not on bail, in Friday’s hearing.Swamy is among the prominent activists arrested in the case related to the violence that erupted in Maharashtra’s Bhima Koregaon village in January 2018. He has been booked under the stringent UAPA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/health-deteriorated-after-arrest-says-stan-swamy-seeks-bail-101621622705065.html
22-05-2021||Bhopal||Eight cheetahs to be translocated from Africa to MP’s Kuno National Park||Madhya Pradesh’s Kuno National Park will get African Cheetahs as part of India’s first inter-country big cat relocation project, a senior state forest department official said on Thursday after the MP government received a confirmation from the Union ministry of environment, forest and climate change. Five male cheetahs and three females will be donated by Endangered Wildlife Trust (EWT) of South Africa, said Alok Kumar, principal chief conservator of forest (Wildlife). The translocation of African Cheetah is a part of Government of India to reintroduce the fastest land animal in India after extinction of the Asiatic cheetah in the 1950s.The final call was taken after EWT national Cheetah Metapopulation manager Vincet Van Der Merwe visited Kuno eight days ago to assess the preparations and suitable habitat for cheetahs, said Kumar. Merwe found Kuno National Park to be one of the best habitats for translocation of cheetah in India. He gave a few minor suggestions including fencing to make it more suitable for the cheetah by September, said Kumar. Divisional forest officer, Sheopur, PK Verma said, “The expert, Merwe said Kuno has a perfect grassland and prey base for cheetahs. We have started preparation for translocation.”The central government has allocated ₹14 crore for the project. The state government had earlier projected an estimated expenditure of ₹22 crore under Annual Operation Plan (AOP, said a forest official, who didn’t wish to be quoted. “We don’t want to take any risk because it is a matter of pride for our country and the success of this project will decide the fate of translocation of more cheetahs in India,” said the officer.Additional PCCF (wildlife) JS Chauhan said: “The money will be used for the development of fencing, cutting thorny trees, cages for cheetah and transportation of cheetah from South Africa.” The Supreme Court approved the project in January 2020 and formed a three-member committee comprising of former director Wildlife of India Ranjit Singh, DG of Wildlife of India Dhananjay Mohan and DIG, Wildlife, Ministry of Environment and Forests to guide the National Tiger Conservation Authority in translocation of the African cheetah from South Africa and Namibia to India. The expert committee visited four sites in MP and one in Rajasthan to select the suitable habitat for cheetah. In early January, the committee submitted its report to the state government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/eight-cheetahs-to-be-translocated-from-africa-to-mp-s-kuno-national-park-101621622571494.html
22-05-2021||Other||Pro-Palestine meeting in Kondhwa violates Covid norms; FIR against 25 persons||The Kondhwa police have filed an FIR against 25 persons on Friday, for organising a meeting on May 18 under the aegis of the Kul Jamaat-e-Tanzim , an umbrella body of Muslim organisations, to discuss the Israel-Palestine conflict. No arrests have been made. The FIR has been registered under section 188, 269, 270 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and relevant sections of the Epidemic Diseases Act 1897, Maharashtra Police Act, Disaster Management Act and Maharashtra Covid-19 Regulations 2020.Police constable Nizam Mughal of Kondhwa police station in his complaint stated that corporator Haji Gafur Pathan (40), former corporator Rais Sundke (38), Haji Feroze Sheikh (42), husband of corporator Parvin Shaikh, and Maulana Qari Idris (72), president of Jamiat Ulema-e-Hind Pune, all residents of Kondhwa, are among those bookedAccording to police, the meeting took place between 8.30pm and 9.15 pm on May 18 at KGN Hall next to Hotel RC Kitchen in Kausarbaug, Kondhwa. The Maharashtra state government has banned all religious and political gatherings in the backdrop of the Covid-19 pandemic.The FIR states: “The meeting was organised by Mujib Patel and Ilias Sheikh on behalf of Kul Jamaat-e-Tanjim. The meeting was organised to show solidarity with the people of Palestine and to condemn the Israeli attacks in Jerusalem and other areas. It was discussed that those present at the meeting should go to their nearest mosque to offer prayers for the victims of the attack. Also, all Muslims should stand behind the citizens of Palestine. Discussions were held to impose a boycott on as many Israeli items as possible. A memorandum was to be prepared in this regard. A total of 25 people were present.”Cleric Qari Idrees in a statement said, “It was a general discussion where all prominent social workers, lawyers and thinkers of the Muslim community had gathered on the ongoing Israel aggression against Palestinians in Gaza. A separate meeting was held at the office of another community person on the Palestine issue before our meeting. How come the police came to know only about our meet? We have been unfairly targeted by vested interests .”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/propalestine-meeting-in-kondhwa-violates-covid-norms-fir-against-25-persons-101621607569359.html
22-05-2021||Pune||28,000 cases lodged under Section 188 of IPC pending with Pune Police||A total of 28,000 cases lodged under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) are pending with the Pune police, as of May 21. Some of the cases date back to 2020.Pune police commissioner Amitabh Gupta confirmed, “These cases are still pending with us.” Section 188 of the IPC states that any person who disobeys an order given by a public servant, can be imprisoned for upto one month.The city police have gone easy in lodging new cases against citizens violating the current Covid restrictions, currently only booking repeat offenders. From April 3 till May 4, 2021, the city police lodged 611 cases under Section 188 of the IPC.In 2020, the then state home minister Anil Deshmukh had announced that the government would withdraw cases against people booked for violating Covid lockdown norms.Right to Information (RTI) activist Vivek Velankar said, “There is no clarity on the issue. Last year, the police had stopped gathering information from citizens after the issue was raised. The issue has to be resolved once and for all. The case data is with the police and they seem to be waiting for an order from the home department which has still not been issued.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/28000-cases-lodged-under-section-188-of-ipc-pending-with-pune-police-101621605589107.html
22-05-2021||Pune||Despite anti-encroachment drive, vendors and crowds return to footpaths outside Market Yard||Despite anti-encroachment drives conducted on Shivneri road, in front of Market Yard – Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has not been able to control the footfall of customers, with vendors continuing to occupy the footpaths.On the eve of the weekend lockdown, the rush outside Market Yard on Friday was substanial.“These vendors have come back. Now we will conduct joint inquiry,” said Madhukar Garad, administrator and secretary, APMC, Gultekdi Market Yard, Pune.When HT visited the site, it found that most customers were not wearing masks and social distancing was not maintained.With only 50 per cent of outlets allowed to function inside the Market Yard, vendors have taken to the streets and footpaths outside.“The crowd doubles on Friday. Buyers are not only residents, but also many retails shopkeepers. Hotel owners also buy vegetables for two days,” said Yash Trivedi, a vegetable vendor. Ashwini Shinde, resident of Shivneri road, said, “We hardly see any police around to control the crowd. After the anti- encroachment drive, for two days it was ok. Then the vendors came back.”“Every day we are seizing goods on Shivneri road,” said Megha Raut, encroachment drive officer, Bibwewadi ward office.Another encroachment drive officer on the request of anonymity, said, “Twice a week we conduct an encroachment drive on Shivneri road, at Market Yard, but these vendors return every time. We are in talks with the higher authorities to take stricter action against these vendors.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/despite-anti-encroachment-drive-vendors-and-crowds-return-to-footpaths-outside-market-yard-101621604868989.html
22-05-2021||Pune||Random rapid antigen test surprises crowd in Pimpri market||Pune: Random rapid antigen tests (RAT) conducted by the Pimpri-Chinchwad police on residents found roaming on streets without showing any valid reason took the latter by surprise on Friday. The Pimpri-Chinchwad police have launched surprise RAT tests on people found on the streets from May 19. The drive has been conducted in Pimpri Camp, Shagun chowk and vegetable market, Pimpri. Other areas of Pimpri-Chinchwad will also be covered, according to the police. “The Pimpri-Chinchwad police will continue this drive till May 31 and could extend if residents do not follow the Covid protocol. We have picked areas that report crowds. We conducted RAT tests on residents in Pimpri vegetable market today,” said Milind Waghmare, senior police inspector, Pimpri. During April, the police conducted RAT test of shopkeepers who were allowed to open their shops from 7am to 11am. “Till now, we have conducted 320 tests and all have turned negative. The tests are conducted on those seen on streets with any valid reason and those without masks,” said Waghmare. Many residents have complained of Covid safety violations at Pimpri market, a major hub of shopping. “Our message is clear. Stay indoors or face RAT if you venture out unnecessarily. Pimpri-Chinchwad police are running other initiatives like counselling and public awareness programmes,” Waghmare said. A team of seven members, including nurses/doctor/staff boy from Jijamata hospital accompany the police squad. “Any resident found positive in RAT is provided help by a team of medical staff,” he said. Waghmare said the drive will cover Pimpri main square on Saturday. “People fear when we conduct RAT as they think that they will be admitted to a hospital,” said a doctor from Jijamata hospital on request of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/random-rapid-antigen-test-surprises-crowd-in-pimpri-market-101621604209042.html
22-05-2021||Pune||No decision on easing of restrictions in Pune: Ajit Pawar||Pune: Deputy chief minister and Pune guardian minister Ajit Pawar said on Friday that no decision has been taken regarding easing of Covid lockdown restrictions in Pune even as the daily caseload in the city has been decreasing. Pawar was speaking after the weekly Covid review meeting at divisional commissioner’s office in Pune. He said that though the number of patients in Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad has been going down, the situation in rural parts still needs attention. The existing curbs are in place till 7 am on June 1. In the last few days, the daily caseload and active cases are going south in the city. On Thursday, there were 931 positive cases recorded within Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC) limits and the number of active cases was 15,043. Also, there were 716 positive patients in Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) on Thursday and the number of active cases was 13,361. Owing to these numbers, Pawar was asked if the administration will consider to lift some curbs in Pune like the complete lockdown on weekends. “There is no decision regarding easing of restrictions. Whatever rules are there now, will continue till May end,” Pawar said. He clarified that the decision of lifting curbs in the state after May 31 will depend on the number of the positive cases in the 10 days. “There are still 10 days before we reach May 31. Let’s see what happens in this duration. The decision will depend on virus case count,” he said. “The number of Covid positive patients in the district has reduced and the number of discharges has increased. Oxygen, ventilator, ICU beds are available in hospitals now. There is no more oxygen shortage in the district. Even 25-30 sugar factories in the state are trying to produce liquid oxygen. But it is an expensive process,” Pawar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/no-decision-on-easing-of-restrictions-in-pune-ajit-pawar-101621602288678.html
22-05-2021||World||UN Security Council calls for 'full adherence' to Gaza ceasefire||The United Nations Security Council on Saturday called for "the full adherence to the ceasefire" in the 11-day conflict between Israel and Palestinians in the Gaza Strip.In the first statement on the issue, Security Council members "welcomed the announcement of a ceasefire beginning May 21 and recognized the important role Egypt, other regional countries" played in it, and stressed "the immediate need for humanitarian assistance to the Palestinian civilian population, particularly in Gaza."This is a developing story. More details awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/un-security-council-calls-for-full-adherence-to-gaza-ceasefire-101621706423471.html
22-05-2021||World||Pfizer, Moderna, J&J pledge 1.3 billion doses of Covid-19 vaccines at Global Health Summit||Pharmaceutical companies Pfizer, Moderna and Johnson & Johnson pledged at the Global Health Summit in Rome to provide 1.3 billion doses of Covid-19 vaccines on a non-profit basis to low and middle income countries in 2021. The Global Health Summit, which was organised on Friday by Italy in its role as president of the G20 in partnership with the European Commission, emphasised the urgent need to scale up efforts, including through synergies between the public and private sectors, to enhance timely and equitable access to effective and affordable Covid-19 vaccines, therapeutics and diagnostics. Pfizer, Moderna and Johnson & Johnson pledged the vaccines will be provided to low-income countries at production cost and middle income countries at low cost. This includes one billion doses from Pfizer, 200 million from Johnson & Johnson and 100 million from Moderna. Most of these doses will be delivered through the WHO-backed COVAX facility. The European Union will also donate 100 million doses to low and middle income countries by the end of the year, said European Commision President Ursula Von der Leyen, who co-hosted the summit with Italian Prime Minister Mario Draghi. “The pandemic has shown the importance of international cooperation to address the current and any future health crisis. In more general terms, we must look across borders and across disciplines if we are to meet the challenges of our times,” Italian ambassador Vincenzo de Luca said. “These include not only the pandemic but also global inequalities and climate change,” he said, adding this was the spirit of the Rome Declaration adopted at the Global Health Summit. The Rome Declaration sets out a series of mutual reinforcing principles and commitments that will guarantee improved preparedness, a coordinated response, resilience to and recovery from the Covid-19 pandemic and better preparation for future health emergencies. Within the framework of the Global Health Summit, all participants announced additional pledges aimed at guaranteeing a forceful and coordinated response to the pandemic. “So long as the virus continues to circulate freely worldwide, it can mutate and undermine even the most successful vaccination campaign. The free flow of raw materials and vaccines across borders is essential,” De Luca said. Europe has so far exported about 200 million doses of vaccines to 90 countries. Italy has pledged a new donation of 15 million doses of vaccines to low-income countries before the end of 2021. At the Global Health Summit, Italy also announced a pledge of an additional 300 million euros for equitable distribution of vaccines, and a separate pledge of 200 million euros for initiatives to foster climate and health security in low-income countries. The participants of the Global Health Summit committed to promote and make tangible progress towards the principles of the Rome Declaration by the G20 Summit in Rome in October. In this regard, De Luca said, it will be essential to strengthen the role of multilateral institutions in global health and beyond, starting with the World Health Organization (WHO). “We need to provide WHO with sustainable and predictable funding and enable it to become more effective. It is crucial to ensure that an effective early warning system is in place and that governments can quickly share their best practices to prevent, contain and manage a pandemic,” he said. International scientific collaboration is one of the factors behind the rapid development of Covid-19 vaccines, and there is a need for better data sharing and greater knowledge transfers to enable widespread and equitable distribution of the fruits of innovation, De Luca said. “Covid-19 vaccines are the product of complex supply chains, which span many countries, each of which is based on its own industrial capacity and expertise,” he said. “We must preserve cross-border trade and eliminate unjustified trade barriers and general export bans.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pfizer-moderna-j-j-pledge-1-3-billion-doses-of-covid-19-vaccines-at-global-health-summit-101621702319083.html
22-05-2021||World||US considered nuclear strike on China in 1958 over Taiwan, documents show||US military planners pushed for nuclear strikes on mainland China in 1958 to protect Taiwan from an invasion by Communist forces, classified documents posted online by Daniel Ellsberg of "Pentagon Papers" fame show.US planners also assumed that the Soviet Union would aid China and retaliate with nuclear weapons -- a price they deemed worth paying to protect Taiwan, according to the document, first reported by the New York Times.Former military analyst Ellsberg posted online the classified portion of a top-secret document on the crisis that had been only partially declassified in 1975.Ellsberg, now 90, is famous for his 1971 leak to US media of a top-secret Pentagon study on the Vietnam war known as the Pentagon Papers.Ellsberg told the Times that he copied the top-secret Taiwan crisis study in the early 1970s, and is releasing it as tensions mount between the United States and China over Taiwan.Had an invasion taken place, General Nathan Twining, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff at the time, "made it clear that the United States would have used nuclear weapons against Chinese air bases to prevent a successful air interdiction campaign," the document's authors wrote.If this did not stop an invasion, then there was "no alternative but to conduct nuclear strikes deep into China as far north as Shanghai," the document said, paraphrasing Twining.In the event, US president Dwight D. Eisenhower decided to rely initially on conventional weapons.The 1958 crisis ended when Communist forces halted artillery strikes on islands controlled by Taiwan, leaving the area under the control of Nationalist forces under Chiang Kai-shek.China considers Taiwan to be a rebel province that will one day return to the mainland's fold, by force if necessary.Washington has recognized Beijing since 1979, but maintains relations with Taipei and is its most important military ally.- Tensions remain high -In recent months the Chinese air force has increased incursions into Taiwan's air defense identification zone.The United States also frequently conducts what it calls "freedom of navigation" operations in the flashpoint Taiwan Strait waterway.US President Joe Biden is expected to announce his strategy toward China soon, and calls are growing for him to make a clear public commitment to defend Taiwan militarily.A US law requires Washington to help the island defend itself in the event of a conflict, but the United States has pursued a policy of "strategic ambiguity" for decades, refraining from clearly stating what circumstances would lead it to intervene militarily on Taiwan's behalf.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-considered-nuclear-strike-on-china-in-1958-over-taiwan-documents-show-101621698695874.html
22-05-2021||World||Germany imposes travel curbs on UK due to virus variant from India||Germany will impose fresh restrictions on travelers from the U.K. starting on Sunday due to the rapid spread in Britain of the coronavirus strain first identified in India.Travelers from the U.K. will have to spend two weeks in quarantine upon arrival in Germany even if they test negative for the virus, according to the foreign ministry. In addition, transport companies will only be allowed to bring German citizens back into the country.Germany now classifies Britain as a “virus variant area,” the country’s highest risk category, following a recommendation from the Robert Koch Institute (RKI), according to the foreign ministry.German Chancellor Angela Merkel said that she is deeply concerned about the spread of the variant first detected India.“This variant seems to be even more aggressive than the British mutation,” Merkel said after the G-20 World Health Summit on Friday. “That means we will have to be careful.”Germany had recently eased strict lockdown measures after the incident rate dropped below 100 in most areas. Britain, too, was removed from Germany’s list of risky areas after a fast-paced vaccination campaign and tough lockdowns massively reduced case numbers.The decision to classify Britain as the highest risk area again might effect the presence of Merkel’s delegation at the three-day G-7 summit in Cornwall, which is scheduled to begin on June 11. Journalists have been advised not to travel to the U.K. to cover the event because they would be forced to quarantine afterward.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/germany-imposes-travel-curbs-on-uk-due-to-virus-variant-from-india-101621695889716.html
22-05-2021||World||How the Covid variant from India exposed Britain’s weaknesses||Prime Minister Boris Johnson was slow to ban travel to India, even as cases of a dangerous Covid-19 variant in the world’s second most populous country surged. Scientists and advisers now fear the U.K. has exposed its vulnerability, and the question is if the government machine can move fast enough when the next strain arrives.Officials privately suspect Johnson’s team was reluctant to close the border to travelers from India for political reasons with post-Brexit ties around the world high on the economic agenda. There were also concerns the country didn’t have the infrastructure in place to cope with the sheer number of people wanting to return to the U.K.This week, ministers confirmed the variant discovered in India had taken hold in 86 separate parts of Britain, including areas of northwest England and Scotland’s biggest city, Glasgow. While Johnson says there’s no evidence so far that the arrival of the new strain will mean lockdown rules have to remain for longer, he has already warned a delay to lifting restrictions might be needed.Germany said late Friday it will impose fresh restrictions on the U.K. Starting Sunday, travelers from the U.K. will have to spend two weeks in quarantine upon arrival even if they test negative for the virus. In addition, transport companies will only be allowed to bring German citizens back into the country.The U.K. has registered Europe’s highest death toll from the pandemic, though has rolled out its fastest vaccination program. Yet as the government promises a return to as close to normal as possible next month, the country appears to be in familiar territory after a succession of reversals with rules eased and then tightened again. “We need to be able to react more quickly,” said Paul Hunter, professor of medicine at the University of East Anglia. “We cannot wait till there is absolutely no doubt that a serious hazard exists either in a U.K. local authority or in a travel destination.”In late March, as the pandemic in India worsened, Johnson’s officials still regarded the risks as manageable. His senior adviser, Edward Lister, was picking his way through the heat and smog of Mumbai. The 71-year-old had been dispatched to help nail down agreements with Narendra Modi’s government—from medical supplies to defense—in preparation for a high-profile visit by Johnson the following month.For the British prime minister, the trade trip was meant to have been a defining moment. It was due to be his first foreign mission since he led the U.K. out of the European Union, and a stepping stone to negotiations for full free trade agreement—a key prize of Brexit.According to one official briefed on the discussions, Johnson was under pressure from diplomats and aides to press ahead with the trade mission, despite the risks. It is a suspicion that has caused concern among government scientific advisers, according to one person involved.About a week before the trip, the rate of infections started to rise, though it was no worse than in some other countries, another official said, speaking on condition of anonymity. Pakistan was “running much hotter” than India, the person said. Johnson’s visit had already been canceled once and Lister’s preparatory work had been a success. Everything was arranged.The government denies that the desire to keep the trade mission live played any part in the decision not to add India to the red list of countries that are riskiest for travel.The decision-making Covid-O committee of top officials met to discuss which countries should be added to the red list. On April 2, it was announced that Pakistan and Bangladesh were put on it, but India was kept under a “watching brief,” according to a person familiar with the matter.One official involved said ministers had to rely on the data that was available, and that was incomplete. “Political judgments are taken at the place where the science stops and doesn’t have all the answers,” the official said.But it wasn’t just an absence of information on the scale of the risk that kept India off the red list at that meeting. There were also concerns that the wave of Britons arriving home from India would swamp airports, making it harder for Border Force officials to process passengers’ passports and Covid status, according to officials.One person involved in the discussions said fears were raised that there would not be enough beds available in hotels to quarantine passengers arriving from India if the country had been put on the red list sooner.A U.K. government spokesperson said officers will continue to carry out 100% health checks on passengers at the border to protect the public. “While we do this, wait times are likely to be longer and we will do all we can to smooth the process,” the spokesperson said. That will include electronic passport gate upgrades over the summer and deploying extra Border Force officers.The Department of Health said the traffic-light system for travel is based on regular scrutiny of the latest scientific data, the Joint Biosecurity Centre’s risk assessment and wider public health factors.On April 14, Johnson’s office announced that the India trade trip has been scaled back from four days to just one. Five days later, with the pandemic in India looking increasingly bleak, Downing Street canceled the visit and finally put the country on the red list. The new measures, though, didn’t take effect until April 23—a move that one official says was intended to help ease the strain on border staff.“It should have been on the red list from day one,” said Hunter at the University of East Anglia. “To compound that by giving people four days to rush back—those two things together were really inappropriate.” As the debate raged in Westminster last week, the government insisted it had acted in line with the scientific advice and the data available at the time. Extending restrictions would be a major blow to businesses. It would also cause a political headache for Johnson, who has said he never wants another lockdown, and jeopardize the U.K.’s recovery. No date has been set for Johnson to make his trip to India. Whenever it is rescheduled, the row over the red list decision will hang over officials organizing the logistics. In the words of one person involved last time: “Nobody realized how bad it was getting.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/how-the-covid-variant-from-india-exposed-britain-s-weaknesses-101621695812797.html
22-05-2021||World||Two-state ‘only answer’ to Israel-Palestine conflict: US prez||US President Joe Biden has said a two-state solution was the “only answer” to the Israel-Palestine conflict emphatically reiterating decades-old US policy that had enjoyed an indifferent to no backing from his predecessor, Donald Trump.On Friday, Biden also made it clear that “there will be no peace” in the region if Israel’s right to exist as an independent Jewish nation was not acknowledged and accepted.President Biden was speaking at a joint news briefing with visiting South Korean President Moon Jae-in, a day after Israel and Hamas declared an unconditional ceasefire ending an 11-day conflict, which the United States had helped to resolve through “quiet, relentless diplomacy”. US efforts included upwards of 80 phone calls made by its officials to their counterparts in the region, and six between Biden and Israel’s Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu.During the 11-day conflict, President Biden had come under increasing pressure from within his party, especially progressives who were critical of Israel, to do more. “There is no shift in my commitment to the security of Israel. Period. No shift, not at all,” Biden said in response to a question if there was a shift in Democratic party, against Israel. “The shift is that we still need a two-state solution. It is the only answer. The only answer,” he added.“My party still supports Israel,” Biden said, adding, “Let’s get something straight here. Until the region says unequivocally, they acknowledge the right of Israel to exist as an independent Jewish state, there will be no peace.”US commitment to a two-state solution - Israel and Palestine to co-exists as two separate countries - had waned considerably under Trump, who had moved the US even closer to Israel by changing several decades old policies, such as recognising Jerusalem as the capital of Israel.“I’m looking at two-state and one-state and I like the one that both parties like. I’m very happy with the one that both parties like,” Trump had said in 2017. And in 2020, he unveiled a peace plan that proposed a “realistic two-state solution”, which made Jerusalem, which is claimed by both sides, the “undivided” capital of Israel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/twostate-only-answer-to-israel-palestine-conflict-us-prez-101621697098516.html
22-05-2021||World||New voter ID rules in many US states raise concerns of fraud, ballot rejection||When voters in Florida and Georgia want to vote by mail in next year’s races for governor, they will have to make sure they take one more step to ensure they receive a ballot: providing their identification.Just two states had ID requirements in 2020 for voters requesting a mailed ballot. This year, Republicans across the country have zeroed in on mail voting and enacted new limits on a process that exploded in popularity during the coronavirus pandemic.In addition to Florida and Georgia, legislation to require additional identification for mail voting was introduced in Arizona, Louisiana, Michigan, Minnesota, New Hampshire, Ohio, South Carolina and Texas, according to information compiled by the Voting Rights Lab, which advocates for expanded voter access.Republicans, seizing on false claims by former President Donald Trump of widespread fraud in last year's White House election, say identification is needed for mailed ballots to deter fraud and improve confidence in elections. There is no evidence of widespread fraud in the 2020 election. Courts rejected multiple claims by Trump and his allies, a coalition of federal, state and local election officials called it the most secure election in U.S. history, and Trump’s own attorney general said he had seen nothing that would change the outcome.Critics say adding ID requirements to request a mailed ballot is not only unnecessary but creates one more opportunity for voters to make a mistake that could leave them unable to vote absentee. Identification, they say, is already required when registering to vote and when voting in person for the first time.When ID also is required to cast a mailed ballot, as is now the case in Georgia, critics say it will only result in more ballots being rejected. It also is expected to disproportionally affect poor, minority and college-age voters -- groups more likely not to have an ID or to have one with a different address.“Every additional requirement you add will lead to more ballot rejections, people who inadvertently fail to comply or don’t comply correctly with those requirements,” said Wendy Weiser, director of the democracy program at the Brennan Center for Justice at NYU’s School of Law, which supports expanded voter access.A Republican proposal in Michigan has drawn particular concern from Democrats because it would require voters to submit a printed copy of their ID when requesting a mailed ballot. Although the state’s governor, a Democrat, is likely to veto any voting restriction, the state has a unique process that could allow this and other voting bills to become law if enough citizens petition for it and the GOP-controlled Legislature passes it.Michigan Secretary of State Jocelyn Benson, a Democrat, has pushed back against GOP claims that IDs are more secure than the current process, which relies on matching a voter's signature on ballot applications or return envelopes to the signature on file at the election office.“There is no evidence this change reduces or deters fraud,” Benson said. “It actually makes it harder to detect fraud because those seeking to fraudulently request an absentee ballot need only to submit a copy of a fake ID to do so, whereas it’s much more difficult to forge a signature.”The Michigan Senate's majority leader, Republican Mike Shirkey, has said voters favor ID requirements and that it was important to ensure registered voters are Michigan residents. “The best way to do that is through a state-issued ID,” he said.Benson noted that 130,000 of some 7 million registered voters in Michigan don’t have a state ID or driver’s license. Detroit Mayor Mike Duggan, a Democrat, said that one-quarter of Black residents in his city don’t own a car and many don’t have printers at home.“If your family has got a car, has got a personal computer, has got a printer copier at home, these bills are not so bad,” Duggan said. “This is what is wrong: They have constructed a series of bills that a poorer family without computers, without a car, has a far harder time voting than the other families. This is voter suppression at its core.”Voter ID requirements have long been a flashpoint in the battle over voting, with past efforts focused on rules surrounding in-person voting. As of 2020, 36 states had ID requirements for voting at polling places, according to the National Conference of State Legislatures.Most allow a wide range of nonphoto identification such as a bank or utility statement. Many states allow voters to sign an affidavit under penalty of perjury that they are who they say they are.Democrats have said they are not opposed to ID requirements as long as multiple forms of identification are accepted and there is an option for voters to sign an affidavit should they not have an ID or forget to bring it to the polls. Federal legislation being pushed this year by Democrats in Congress would make an affidavit mandatory in any state with a voter ID law.What’s new this year are the additional ID requirements to request or submit mailed ballots. Previously, only Alabama and Wisconsin required identification to request a mailed ballot.Under a recently signed law, Florida voters will have to provide their driver’s license number, state ID number or last four digits of their Social Security number to request a mailed ballot. In South Dakota, those seeking to vote by mail must submit a copy of a photo ID or a notarized oath.Georgia's new elections law requires voters to provide their name, date of birth, address and driver’s license or state ID card number when requesting an absentee ballot and when returning it.Georgia state Sen. Brian Strickland, a Republican whose district is south of Atlanta, told reporters last month that the goal of the requirement was to move away from having to rely on local election officials to match voter signatures on file to applications and ballots, which he described as “not a workable process.”“This was a big complaint we heard from both sides,” Strickland said.Georgia's secretary of state, Republican Brad Raffensperger, said he has long supported an ID requirement. He said he has faced lawsuits from both Democrats and Republicans over signature matching, and said the process is subjective."When you go to photo ID, it’s very objective,” he said.In response to challenges by Democrats, legal settlements in several states have assured voters they will have an opportunity to fix problems that arise with a missing or mismatched signature.The Georgia law already is facing multiple court challenges, including one claiming the ID requirement creates the potential for fraud and identity theft. The required personal identification information can be easily stolen, creating the possibility for ballots to be requested and cast using voters’ names and information without their knowledge, according to a federal lawsuit filed by a group of county election board members, voters and others.Georgia state Sen. Jen Jordan, a Democrat who represents a metro Atlanta district, said the legislation was built on lies spread by Trump and his allies and will end up harming voters.“At the end of the day, we can’t ignore the origins of the bill, the intent behind it and how a lot of these new provisions can be used to invalidate the will of the voter,” Jordan said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/new-voter-id-rules-in-many-us-states-raise-concerns-of-fraud-ballot-rejection-101621691271659.html
22-05-2021||World||‘Don’t kiss or snuggle chickens’: CDC warns backyard poultry owners amid Salmonella outbreak||The US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) has warned that a growing Salmonella outbreak may be linked to backyard poultry, urging Americans to stop kissing or snuggling chickens. In an investigation notice published on Thursday, the CDC said that 163 cases of confirmed illness have been reported across 43 states. Out of the reported cases, the median age of sick people was 24 and 58 per cent of those were female.The US health agency noted that the true number is likely to be much higher since many people recover without medical care and are not tested for Salmonella. “Epidemiologic and laboratory data show that contact with backyard poultry is making people sick,” the report said, adding that 81 people, out of 92 interviewed by state and local public health officials, reported contact with backyard poultry before getting sick."You can get sick from touching your backyard poultry or anything in their environment and then touching your mouth or food, and swallowing Salmonella germs," the CDC said.Also Read | CDC chief wants unvaccinated people to be ‘honest with themselves’. Here’s whySalmonella causes diarrhoea, fever, and stomach cramps and some people may also have nausea, vomiting, or a headache. The symptoms of the bacterial infection usually start within 6 hours to 6 days after infection and last 4-7 days. The CDC issued an advisory on what backyard flock owners should do in order to prevent the disease.“Don’t kiss or snuggle backyard poultry, and don’t eat or drink around them. This can spread Salmonella germs to your mouth and make you sick,” the investigation notice said.The CDC has advised owners to wash their hands with soap and water immediately after touching backyard poultry, their eggs, or anything in the area where they live and roam. It also asked to not let children younger than 5 years touch chicks, ducklings, or other backyard poultry as they are more likely to get sick from germs like Salmonella. As per an estimate by the CDC, Salmonella bacteria cause about 1.35 million infections, 26,500 hospitalisations, and 420 deaths in the United States every year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/dont-kiss-or-snuggle-cdc-warns-poultry-owners-amid-salmonella-outbreak-101621689096939.html
22-05-2021||World||Oxford/AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine 80% effective against B1.617.2 variant: UK study||Two doses from either the Oxford/AstraZeneca or the Pfizer vaccine are over 80 per cent effective in preventing infection from the B1.617.2 variant of Covid-19, first discovered in India, a new UK government study has reportedly found.The Oxford/AstraZeneca two-dose vaccine is also being produced by the Serum Institute of India as Covishield and being administered among the adult population in India to protect against the deadly virus.The UK findings are said to be based on data from Public Health England (PHE) and have also revealed that the two doses provide 87 per cent protection from the B.117 variant, first discovered in Kent region of England and also considered highly transmissible.According to ‘The Telegraph’ newspaper, the latest study's findings were presented to a meeting of the government’s New and Emerging Respiratory Virus Threats Advisory Group (Nervtag) this week.The latest PHE statistics released earlier this week show that case numbers of the B1.617.2 variant had risen by 2,111 over the past week to hit 3,424 cases across the country."I think it's clearly growing, which anyone can see from the numbers as they are reported week by week,” Dr Jeffrey Barrett, director of Covid-19 genomics at the Sanger Institute, told the BBC."If I had to put a guess today it would be 20 or 30 per cent rather than 50 per cent (more infectious than the Kent variant). But there is still uncertainty, 50 per cent might be a reasonable worst case scenario," he said, in reference to the rate of transmissibility of the variant of concern (VOC) first detected in India.Meanwhile, PHE officials are also closely monitoring a variant under investigation (VUI) in the Yorkshire region of England, which is showing high transmissibility.It comes as the National Health Service (NHS) further expanded its vaccination programme and announced that it will open bookings for people aged 32 and 33, adding to the over-34s cohort, from Saturday.NHS England said that the third expansion of eligibility in just one week comes as over four in 10 adults have now had both jabs.“Only days after we extended the offer of a vaccine to 34 and 35 year olds, we are now rolling out the invite to 32 and 33 year olds - an incredible step forward in the biggest and most successful vaccination programme in NHS history,” said UK Health Secretary Matt Hancock.“This is truly a testament to the heroic work of our amazing NHS and care staff, volunteers and local authorities across the country who have helped deliver over 50 million jabs at lightning speed across England, keeping us on track to offer a vaccine to everyone by July,” he said.The Department of Health and Social Care (DHSC) has, meanwhile, said that it is ramping up testing and genome sequencing of sewage and waste water in the drive to track and trace all variants of Covid-19, including the B1.617.2 variant.A new laboratory in Exeter, south-west England, opened last month dedicated to analysing wastewater, making it one of the biggest wastewater processing labs in the world.Increased genomic sequencing of sewage samples are expected to provide more clues to where variants of concern may be circulating undetected in communities. It can pick up evidence of variants from infected people and continue to monitor sewage after surge testing has ended in an area.“Sequencing wastewater samples provides an additional detection system for variants of concern, enabling us to respond more effectively to outbreaks and better protect citizens,” said Chief Executive of the UK Health Security Agency Dr Jenny Harries.“This innovative programme supports the work of Public Health England and NHS Test and Trace to help us understand where the virus may be circulating undetected,” she said.Wastewater samples are taken from around 500 locations in England and sent to the laboratory at Exeter Science Park. Environment Agency scientists analyse the samples to quantify the amount of Covid-19 present.“As infections fall and we head out of national restrictions, analysing wastewater to detect variants early on is important to help local authorities and NHS Test and Trace act quickly to stop variants from spreading in communities,” said Programme Lead at the Joint Biosecurity Centre Dr Andrew Engeli.The experts said that without the need to rely on individuals coming forward for swab tests, this kind of monitoring in a catchment area is able to pinpoint outbreaks to smaller areas and neighbourhoods. There are also pilots analysing the wastewater from specific institutions, such as within the food supply chain and prisons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/oxfordastrazeneca-covid-19-vaccine-80-effective-against-b1-617-2-variant-uk-study-101621687539016.html
22-05-2021||World||2 dead, 8 wounded after shooting in downtown Minneapolis||A shooting in downtown Minneapolis killed two people and wounded eight others, police said early Saturday.The 10 people shot included five men and five women, the police department said in a series of tweets.Two of the men died and another man was at a hospital in critical condition, police said. The other seven wounded people had injuries not considered to be life-threatening.No arrests were immediately announced.Police spokesperson John Elder said the gunfire stemmed from two men in a crowd who got into an argument, pulled out guns and started shooting, KMSP-TV reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/2-dead-8-wounded-after-shooting-in-downtown-minneapolis-101621684640749.html
22-05-2021||World||Animal rights group blockades McDonald's UK distribution centres||Campaign group Animal Rebellion said activists were blockading distribution centres of McDonald's in Britain on Saturday to demand the restaurant chain turn to plant-based foods.Around 50 protesters were using trucks and bamboo structures to stop lorries from leaving McDonald's four distribution centres in the United Kingdom, the group said in a statement.A spokeswoman for McDonald's UK apologised to its customers for the disruption."We are assessing the impact on deliveries to our restaurants and to menu items," she said.The group said it would remain at the sites for at least 24 hours to disrupt the company's supply chain."The meat and dairy industry is destroying our planet: causing huge amounts of rainforest deforestation, emitting immense quantities of greenhouse gases and killing billions of animals each year," said James Ozden, a spokesperson for Animal Rebellion."The only sustainable and realistic way to feed 10 billion people is with a plant-based food system. Organic, free-range and ‘sustainable’ animal-based options simply aren't good enough."Images released by Animal Rebellion showed a replica model of McDonald's golden M-shaped arches logo splattered with blood-like red paint and protesters suspended in the bamboo structures at the gates of a distribution centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/animal-rights-group-blockades-mcdonald-s-uk-distribution-centres-101621683631678.html
22-05-2021||World||Some Covid-19 vaccines help nations exit the pandemic faster than others||With hundreds of millions of people now vaccinated against Covid-19, the coronavirus outbreak should begin to die down in places where a large chunk of the population has been inoculated. But that isn’t happening everywhere.Instead, two paths are emerging: In countries such as Israel, new Covid cases are declining as vaccinations spread, while in other places like the Seychelles -- which has fully inoculated more of its population than any other nation -- infections continue to increase or even reach new highs.One reason for that may be the different types of vaccine being used. Evidence derived from the expanding global inoculation rollout indicates that the messenger RNA shots developed by Moderna Inc. or Pfizer Inc. and BioNTech SE are better at stopping people from becoming contagious, helping reduce onward transmission -- an unexpected extra benefit as the first wave of Covid vaccines were intended to stop people from becoming very sick.Other vaccines, while effective in preventing acute illness or death from Covid, appear not to have this extra perk to the same degree.“This will be an increasing trend as countries start to realize that some vaccines are better than others,” said Nikolai Petrovsky, a professor at the College of Medicine and Public Health at Flinders University in South Australia. While the use of any vaccine “is still better than nothing,” he said, some doses “may have little benefit in preventing spread, even if they reduce the risk of death or severe disease.”Studies of millions of people in Israel vaccinated with the Pfizer-BioNTech shot show the mRNA doses prevented more than 90% of asymptomatic infections -- those who contract the virus but show no symptoms. That’s important, said Raina MacIntyre, an epidemiologist at the University of New South Wales in Sydney, because a vaccine’s ability to stop asymptomatic infection “is the determinant of whether or not herd immunity is possible.”Also Read | World’s most vaccinated country is witnessing Covid-19 surge worse than India. What does it mean?Herd immunity is typically achieved when the virus can no longer find any vulnerable hosts in order to keep spreading.Which vaccines a country can secure could therefore affect everything from policy about mask-wearing and social distancing to lifting border restrictions and reviving economies, given the influence that daily case counts have on government decisions. For individuals it may determine how soon they regain pre-pandemic freedoms.The differences in effectiveness are already leading to preferred brands in countries where more than one vaccine is available. In the Philippines, immunization centers have been instructed not to announce which shots are being given after a crowd turned up at one location hoping to get access to the Pfizer shot.Mask FreeIn the U.S., nearly 40% of the population has been fully vaccinated, mostly with mRNA shots, and the number of new cases each day has dropped by more than 85% in the past four months. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention this month said those who are fully vaccinated can gather without masks or social distancing.“If you are fully vaccinated, you can start doing things you have stopped doing because of the pandemic,” said CDC director Rochelle Walensky, “we have all longed for this moment, when we can get back to some sense of normalcy.”A similar trajectory is evident in Israel, which fully vaccinated nearly 60% of its population with the Pfizer-BioNTech shot and has gradually lifted restrictions as new cases declined to fewer than 50 a day, from more than 8,000 at the beginning of this year. Qatar and Malta are also witnessing a decline in new cases after giving around 30% of their populations two doses of mostly mRNA vaccines.The results provide further evidence of the surprise efficacy of the new mRNA shots; the pandemic is the first time this vaccine technology is being widely used. They work by delivering genetic codes that instruct the human body to make proteins of the virus that in turn stimulate an immune response.Also Read | Coronavirus: World’s most-vaccinated nation Seychelles sees tourism pick-upThe existing mRNA shots require ultra cold storage, limiting their accessibility to countries with poor transport and storage infrastructure.That’s one reason why most countries, though, are relying predominantly on non-mRNA shots ranging from the adenovirus vector vaccines from AstraZeneca Plc, to those from Chinese developers Sinopharm and Sinovac Biotech Ltd. that use an inactivated form of the virus. These more traditional vaccine types have shown efficacy rates of between 50% to 80% in preventing symptomatic Covid in clinical trials, compared with more than 90% for mRNA ones. There’s little data regarding their ability to prevent onward transmission, but signs are emerging that it may be much lower.“Real-world evidence is difficult to compare as it is captured at different times, in different populations, in different places that may have different levels of Covid-19 infection and with different variants of the virus in circulation,” said an AstraZeneca statement.The statement pointed to newly released real-world data from the U.K. as evidence of the shot’s benefits: two doses of the AstraZeneca vaccine is around 85% to 90% effective against symptomatic disease, said Public Health England on Thursday.This is higher than the 66.7% efficacy rate found in clinical trials, though data is not yet available on the vaccine’s ability to prevent asymptomatic infection in the real world.Sinopharm didn’t immediately respond to queries for this story.An archipelago in the Indian Ocean, the Seychelles has fully vaccinated about 65% of its population with AstraZeneca and Sinopharm shots, yet weekly new infections increased rapidly this month, with 37% of those patients having already received their two doses. The surge led authorities to close schools, cancel sporting events and ban household gatherings. Among fully inoculation people, around 60% received the vaccine from Sinopharm and the rest got AstraZeneca’s shot.In Chile in South America, the steady ramp-up in vaccination using mostly Sinovac’s shot didn’t prevent the number of new daily cases from almost doubling in mid-April from a month earlier, despite administering enough doses to cover 30% of the population. Authorities had to reintroduce a lockdown across the country in late March.But in the case of both countries, the type of vaccine available seems to be only one of many factors affecting the spread of the disease. Policy failures in places that reacted too slowly to impose restrictions, or lifted them prematurely, have been a major contributor, as has speed of diagnosis and access to medical facilities. Different transmission rates of virus variants also play a part.Seychelles President Wavel Ramkalawan said transmission increased in his country after the nation’s world-beating vaccine roll-out caused people to let down their guard.The uptick in infections in Chile was attributed by Sinovac’s Chief Executive Officer Yin Weidong to the nation prioritizing elderly people in their initial vaccination efforts. “It’s normal that the country sees a resurgence of infections as social activities increase among the younger people who are mainly not inoculated,” he said in a May 11 interview.* Note: Data for Pfizer and Sinovac vaccine is from real world studies in Israel and Chile respectively, while that for AstraZeneca is from its clinical trials.Variant ThreatWhat seems clear is that all the approved doses reduce the incidence of people becoming severely ill or dying from the disease -- the primary goal of a vaccine. That takes pressure off hospitals and medical resources. Most new Covid patients in the Seychelles, for example, are only experiencing mild symptoms, according to the nation’s president.This is a crucial first step for countries without access to mRNA vaccines, said Helen Petousis-Harris, a vaccinologist at the University of Auckland. After using available vaccines to crush the number of severe cases, countries can stamp out remaining infection with shots that curb transmission once they become available.Another possibility is that vaccination along with the spread of mild cases could also end up building so-called herd immunity, said Ben Cowling, head of the University of Hong Kong’s department of epidemiology and biostatistics. “The places with less immunity against infection but more immunity against severe disease will see circulation of the virus causing mainly mild infections, boosting immunity to a higher level.”Experts say a lot remains unknown and so-called breakthrough infections -- where people who received shots still get Covid -- do occur, even with mRNA vaccines. It’s also not yet fully known how well the different kinds of shots perform against the different variants of the virus.A study conducted in Qatar among some 260,000 people who completed two doses of Pfizer-BioNTech’s vaccine showed the mRNA shot’s effectiveness at preventing infections caused by the South African variant dipping to 75%.The improvements in the U.S and Israel came before those places were affected by concerning new strains, which include variants that have emerged in Brazil and India.“I would be careful about over-interpreting the data,” said Petrovsky at Flinders University, who points out that no head-to-head studies -- where shots are tested against each other -- have been performed to identify the best vaccines. For the mRNA shots, “data on their effects on transmission is very limited.”In the end, it may need the development of new, modified versions of the vaccines to finally win the war against Covid, said Petousis-Harris. Some vaccine developers are working on nasal spray inoculations, which can prevent the virus from taking hold in the respiratory track, thus cutting off infection at its entry point.“We’ve got some super vaccines that are beyond expectation,” she said. “We’ve learned a lot and so imagine what the next one is going to look like.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/some-covid-19-vaccines-help-nations-exit-the-pandemic-faster-than-others-101621683617650.html
22-05-2021||World||Two Covid vaccine doses needed for strong protection against B.1.617.2 variant found in India: Report||Both doses of two-dose regimen Covid-19 vaccines are needed to provide strong protection against symptomatic infection from the virus variant first identified in India, according to a Financial Times report based on UK government research. The B.1.617.2 variant has raised severe concern around the world as health experts are increasingly wary about the vaccine efficacy against the new variant which has now become the second most dominant variant in Britain after B.1.1.7 strain. The United Kingdom has detected 3,424 cases of B.1.617.2 variant across the country as of May 12.Public Health England (PHE) data on vaccine efficacy, presented on Friday to the government’s New and Emerging Respiratory Virus Threats Advisory Group (Nervtag), suggested that two vaccine doses provide 81 per cent protection against the B.1.617.2 variant, reported FT, quoting two officials briefed on the preliminary data. One dose of the Covid-19 vaccine offered 33 per cent protection against the virus variant, per FT.The data from the Oxford-AstraZeneca and Pfizer-BioNTech vaccines showed that while a single Covid shot offered 51 per cent protection against the B.1.1.7 variant, both doses provided 87 per cent protection. This means a single dose of Covid vaccine provides 35 per cent less protection against B.1.617.2 as compared with the variant first detected in the UK.Also Read | Why the gap between Covaxin doses has not been extended, Centre explainsEarlier on Thursday, PHE, citing new analysis, announced that two doses of Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine provide around 85-90 per cent protection against symptomatic disease. British health secretary Matt Hancock said that the new data shows the vaccine saves lives and protects people from ending up in hospital with Covid-19. However, the UK health agency didn’t provide data on vaccine efficacy against B.1.617.2 variant.“Public Health England scientists are evaluating the effectiveness of vaccines against the B.1.617.2 variant of Sars-Cov-2. We will be publishing the results of this evaluation in due course,” PHE was quoted by FT as saying.Meanwhile, a virologist has warned that the spread of new variants, including the one discovered in India, is concerning because of the possibility that it could escape vaccine immunity. Speaking at BBC Breakfast, Dr Chris Smith said that the variants of concern could increase the number of cases as a significant proportion of the UK population hasn’t been fully vaccinated yet.“The more variation there is, the more chances we’re going to see the vaccines stop working,” he added.The government of India recently increased the gap between two doses of the Covishield vaccine, a version of the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine developed by Serum Institute of India (SII), to 12-16 weeks. “Based on the available real-life evidences, particularly from UK, the Covid-19 Working agreed for increasing the dosing interval to 12-16 weeks between two doses of Covishield vaccine," the health ministry said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/two-covid-vaccine-doses-needed-for-strong-protection-against-variant-found-in-india-report-101621681161772.html
22-05-2021||World||Climbing guide says at least 100 coronavirus cases on Everest||An expert climbing guide said Saturday that a coronavirus outbreak on Mount Everest has infected at least 100 climbers and support staff, giving the first comprehensive estimate amid official Nepalese denials of a Covid-19 cluster on the world's highest peak.Lukas Furtenbach of Austria, who last week became the only prominent outfitter to halt his Everest expedition due to virus fears, said one of his foreign guides and six Nepali Sherpa guides have tested positive.“I think with all the confirmed cases we know now — confirmed from (rescue) pilots, from insurance, from doctors, from expedition leaders — I have the positive tests so we can prove this,” Furtenbach told The Associated Press in Nepal's capital, Kathmandu.“We have at least 100 people minimum positive for Covid in base camp, and then the numbers might be something like 150 or 200,” he said.He said it was obvious there were many cases at the Everest base camp because he could visibly see people were sick, and could hear people coughing in their tents.A total of 408 foreign climbers were issued permits to climb Everest this season, aided by several hundred Sherpa guides and support staff who've been stationed at base camp since April.Nepalese mountaineering officials have denied there are any active cases this season among climbers and support staff at all base camps for the country's Himalayan mountains. Mountaineering was closed last year due to the pandemic.Nepalese officials could not immediately be reached for comment Saturday. Other climbing teams have not announced any Covid-19 infections among their members or staff. Several climbers have reported testing positive after they were brought down from the Everest base camp.Furtenbach said most teams on the mountain were not carrying virus testing kits, and that before his team pulled out, they had helped conduct tests and had confirmed two cases.Most teams are still at base camp, hoping for clear weather next week so they can make a final push to the summit before the climbing season closes at the end of the month, Furtenbach said.In late April, a Norwegian climber became the first to test positive at the Everest base camp. He was flown by helicopter to Kathmandu, where he was treated and later returned home.Nepal is experiencing a virus surge, with record numbers of new infections and deaths. China last week canceled climbing from its side of Mount Everest due to fears the virus could be spread from the Nepalese side.Nepal reported 8,607 new infections and 177 deaths on Friday, bringing the nation's totals since the pandemic began to more than 497,000 infections and 6,024 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/climbing-guide-says-at-least-100-coronavirus-cases-on-everest-101621680850385.html
22-05-2021||World||3 Islamist political party leaders killed in bomb blast in Balochistan: Report||Three leaders of the Jamiat Ulema-i-Islam (Nazaryati) among seven people who were killed in a bomb attack in Balochistan's Chaman city on Friday, reported the Dawn.Senior local police official Ahmad Mohiuddin said explosives were packed into a motorbike parked near the vehicle of a religious leader taking part in the rally, reported Geo News.As per Dawn, JUI-N's naib emir Maulana Abdul Qadir Luni, who, according to officials was the target of the attackers, suffered injuries in the bombing.Officials said the blast occurred at Boghara Chowk soon after a rally, staged by the JUI-N to condemn Israeli aggression and genocide of the oppressed Palestinians in Gaza, had concluded.According to them, unidentified people had rigged the motorbike with explosive material and parked it near the venue of the rally and detonated it when Maulana Luni, accompanied by supporters, was leaving the place."It seems the target of the blast was Maulana Luni as the IED planted in the motorcycle was detonated with remote control soon after he left the rally venue," a senior police official said, as per Dawn's report.The bomb attack took place hours after Pakistan's Foreign Minister, Shah Mahmood Qureshi, welcomed a ceasefire between Israel and the Hamas- militant group that rules Gaza. Pakistan wants a peaceful resolution of the Palestine issue.The brutal fighting between the two countries killed at least 243 Palestinians, including 66 children. On the other hand, 12 people were killed in Israeli, including two children and an Indian national, Al Jazeera reports.Demonstrators in Chaman could be seen waving signs that said "Free Palestine", while a major road connecting the capital Islamabad to the neighbouring city Rawalpindi was blocked, reported Geo News.On April 22, three people were killed and 13 others got injured in an explosion in the parking lot of a hotel, which was hosting the Chinese ambassador, in Balochistan's capital Quetta.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/3-islamist-political-party-leaders-killed-in-bomb-blast-in-balochistan-report-101621678045547.html
22-05-2021||World||Why do we get shots in the arm? It’s all about the muscle||Millions have rolled up their sleeves for the COVID-19 vaccine, but why haven’t they rolled up their pants legs instead? Why do we get most shots in our arms?As an associate professor of nursing with a background in public health, and as a mother of two curious kids, I field this question fairly often. So here’s the science behind why we get most vaccines in our arm.It’s worth noting that most, but not all, vaccines are given in the muscle – this is known as an intramuscular injection. Some vaccines, like the rotavirus vaccine, are given orally. Others are given just beneath the skin, or subcutaneously – think of the measles, mumps and rubella vaccine. However, many others are given in the muscle.But why is the muscle so important, and does location matter? And why the arm muscle – called the deltoid – in the top of the shoulder?Muscles have immune cellsMuscles make an excellent vaccine administration site because muscle tissue contains important immune cells. These immune cells recognize the antigen, a tiny piece of a virus or bacteria introduced by the vaccine that stimulates an immune response. In the case of the COVID-19 vaccine, it is not introducing an antigen but rather administering the blueprint for producing antigens.The immune cells in the muscle tissue pick up these antigens and present them to the lymph nodes. Injecting the vaccine into muscle tissue keeps the vaccine localized, allowing immune cells to sound the alarm to other immune cells and get to work.Once a vaccine is recognized by the immune cells in the muscle, these cells carry the antigen to lymph vessels, which transport the antigen-carrying immune cells into the lymph nodes. Lymph nodes, key components of our immune system, contain more immune cells that recognize the antigens in vaccines and start the immune process of creating antibodies.Clusters of lymph nodes are located in areas close to vaccine administration sites. For instance, many vaccines are injected in the deltoid because it is close to lymph nodes located just under the armpit. When vaccines are given in the thigh, the lymph vessels don’t have far to travel to reach the cluster of lymph nodes in the groin.Muscles keep the action localisedMuscle tissue also tends to keep vaccine reactions localized. Injecting a vaccine into the deltoid muscle may result in local inflammation or soreness at the injection site. If certain vaccines are injected into fat tissue, the chance of irritation and inflammation reaction increases because fat tissue has poor blood supply, leading to poor absorption of some vaccine components.Vaccines that include the use of adjuvants – or components that enhance the immune response to the antigen – must be given in a muscle to avoid widespread irritation and inflammation. Adjuvants act in a variety of ways to stimulate a stronger immune response.Yet another deciding factor in vaccine administration location is the size of the muscle. Adults and children ages three and older tend to receive vaccines in their upper arm in the deltoid. Younger children receive their vaccines mid-thigh because their arm muscles are smaller and less developed.Another consideration during vaccine administration is convenience and patient acceptability.Can you imagine taking down your pants at a mass vaccination clinic? Rolling up your sleeve is way easier and more preferred. Infectious disease outbreaks, as in flu season or amid epidemics like COVID-19, require our public health system to vaccinate as many people as possible in a short time. For these reasons, a shot in the arm is preferred simply because the upper arm is easily accessible.All things considered, when it comes to the flu shot and the COVID-19 vaccine, for most adults and kids, the arm is the preferred vaccination route.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/why-do-we-get-shots-in-the-arm-it-s-all-about-the-muscle-101621676949567.html
22-05-2021||World||Eiffel Tower to reopen in mid-July after suffering heavy losses||The Eiffel Tower is getting ready to welcome visitors again starting in mid-July as restrictions linked to the coronavirus ease throughout France.The French capital’s iconic structure will reopen from July 16 to tourists eager to climb the 324-meter tower’s staircases or use its lifts, according to an announcement on Twitter.The news comes as the terraces of cafes, restaurants and bars in Paris and throughout France reopened this week. The country’s curfew was pushed back to 9 p.m. and French citizens can now shop for shoes and visit museums, albeit with restrictions on the number of people who can enter.The operator’s representatives told Agence France-Presse that about 10,000 tourists will be able to visit per day, as opposed to 25,000 in normal times. The attraction receives 7 million visitors each year, according to its website.The iron structure, which has been closed since the start of France’s second lockdown at the end of October, has suffered heavy losses and will need to be recapitalized in the coming months, according to the site operator.Operating losses for 2020-2021 are expected to reach 120 million euros ($146 million) in total, a representative for the Societe d’Exploitation de la Tour Eiffel told AFP on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/eiffel-tower-to-reopen-in-mid-july-after-suffering-heavy-losses-101621677306269.html
22-05-2021||World||US state secretary Blinken to visit Israel, West Bank on May 26-27: Report||U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken will visit Israel and the Palestinian Authority in the occupied West Bank on Wednesday and Thursday as part of Washington's efforts to build on the Gaza truce, a source briefed on the planning said on Saturday.U.S., Israeli and Palestinian officials have not published Blinken's full itinerary. The State Department announced his visit on Thursday, saying he would "discuss recovery efforts and working together to build better futures for Israelis and Palestinians".Blinken's Middle East trip would include visit to Egypt, which mediated the Gaza truce between Israel and Hamas-led Palestinian militants, as well as to Jordan, the source said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-state-secretary-blinken-to-visit-israel-west-bank-on-may-26-27-report-101621675333820.html
22-05-2021||World||Einstein handwritten letter with famous E=mc2 equation gets $1.2 million||A letter written by Albert Einstein in which he writes out his famous E = mc2 equation has sold at auction for more than $1.2 million, about three times more than it was expected to get, Boston-based RR Auction said Friday.Archivists at the Einstein Papers Project at the California Institute of Technology and the Hebrew University of Jerusalem say there are only three other known examples of Einstein writing the world-changing equation in his own hand.This fourth example, the only one in a private collection, only became public recently, according to RR Auction, which had expected it to sell for about $400,000.“It’s an important letter from both a holographic and a physics point of view,” Bobby Livingston, executive vice president at RR Auction said, calling the equation the most famous in the world.The equation — energy equals mass times the speed of light squared — changed physics by demonstrating that time was not absolute and that mass and energy were equivalent.The one-page handwritten letter in German to Polish American physicist Ludwik Silberstein is dated Oct. 26, 1946.Silberstein was a well-known critic and challenger to some of Einstein's theories.“Your question can be answered from the E = mc2 formula, without any erudition," Einstein wrote in the letter written on Princeton University letterhead, according to a translation provided by RR Auction.The letter was part of Silberstein's personal archives, which were sold by his descendants.The buyer was identified by RR only as an anonymous document collector.The rarity of the letter set off a bidding war, Livingston said.Five parties were bidding aggressively at first, but once the price reached about $700,000, it became a two-party contest, he said.The auction began May 13 and concluded Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/einstein-handwritten-letter-with-famous-e-mc2-equation-gets-1-2-million-101621673735077.html
22-05-2021||World||China says Zhurong rover takes first drive on surface of Mars||A remote-controlled Chinese motorised rover drove down the ramp of a landing capsule on Saturday and onto the surface of the Red Planet, making China the first nation to orbit, land and deploy a land vehicle on its inaugural mission to Mars.Zhurong, named after a mythical Chinese god of fire, drove down to the surface of Mars at 10:40 a.m. Beijing time (0240 GMT), according to a post on the rover's official Chinese social media account.China this month joined the United States as the only nations to deploy land vehicles on Mars. The former Soviet Union landed a craft in 1971, but it lost communication seconds later.The 240-kg (530-pound) Zhurong, which has six scientific instruments including a high-resolution topography camera, will study the planet's surface soil and atmosphere.Powered by solar energy, Zhurong will also look for signs of ancient life, including any subsurface water and ice, using a ground-penetrating radar during its 90-day exploration of the Martian surface.China's uncrewed Tianwen-1 spacecraft blasted off from the southern Chinese island of Hainan in July last year. After more than six months in transit, Tianwen-1 reached the Red Planet in February where it had been in orbit since.On May 15, the landing capsule carrying the rover separated from Tianwen-1 and touched down on a vast plain known as Utopia Planitia.The first images taken by the rover were released by the Chinese space agency on Wednesday.Tianwen-1 was one of three probes that reached Mars in February.US rover Perseverance touched down on Feb. 18 in a huge depression called Jezero Crater, more than 2,000 km (1,240 miles) from Utopia Planitia.Hope - the third spacecraft to arrive in February - is not designed to land. Launched by the United Arab Emirates, it is orbiting above Mars, gathering data on its weather and atmosphere.Perseverance and Zhurong are among three robotic rovers operating on Mars. The third is NASA's Curiosity, which landed in 2012.NASA's InSight, which arrived on the surface of the planet in 2018 to study its interior, is a stationary module.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-says-zhurong-rover-takes-first-drive-on-surface-of-mars-101621672577620.html
22-05-2021||World||China's Mars rover starts roaming the Red Planet||China's Mars rover drove from its landing platform and began exploring the surface on Saturday, state-run Xinhua news agency said, making the country only the second nation to land and operate a rover on the Red Planet.The launch last July of the Tianwen-1 Mars probe, which carried the Zhurong rover, marked a major milestone in China's space programme.Tianwen-1 touched down on a vast northern lava plain known as the Utopia Planitia a week ago and beamed back its first photos of the surface a few days later.The Mars probe and rover are expected to spend around three months taking photos, harvesting geographical data, and collecting and analysing rock samples.The six-wheeled, solar-powered, 240-kilogramme (530-pound) Zhurong is named after a Chinese mythical fire god.China has now sent astronauts into space, powered probes to the Moon and landed a rover on Mars -- the most prestigious of all prizes in the competition for dominion of space.The United States and Russia are the only other countries to have reached Mars, and only the former has operated a rover on the surface.Several US, Russian and European attempts to land rovers on Mars have failed in the past, most recently in 2016 with the crash-landing of the Schiaparelli joint Russian-European spacecraft.The latest successful arrival came in February, when US space agency NASA landed its rover Perseverance, which has since been exploring the planet.The US rover launched a small robotic helicopter on Mars which was the first-ever powered flight on another planet.China has come a long way in its race to catch up with the United States and Russia, whose astronauts and cosmonauts have decades of experience in space exploration.It successfully launched the first module of its new space station last month with hopes of having it crewed by 2022 and eventually sending humans to the Moon.Last week a segment of the Chinese Long March 5B rocket disintegrated over the Indian Ocean in an uncontrolled landing back to Earth.That drew criticism from the United States and other nations for a breach of etiquette governing the return of space debris to Earth, with officials saying the remnants had the potential to endanger life and property.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/chinas-mars-rover-starts-roaming-the-red-planet-101621672236206.html
22-05-2021||World||4 men try to enter ex-Pak PM Nawaz Sharif's office in London; PML-N leaders allege 'sinister' intention||A group of unidentified men allegedly attempted to barge into the office of former Pakistani Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif in London, the United Kingdom on Friday, news agency ANI reported quoting local media.As per the report, the four men tried to reach Sharif's office on the pretext of meeting him and when the security denied them entry, they became "aggressive" and "forcibly" tried to enter his office. Sharif was inside his office at the time of the incident, it also reported.They were stopped at the entrance of the office after which they were questioned about the purpose of their visit. They said that they had an appointment with Nawaz Sharif, ANI reported citing local media.Dubbing the incident "cowardly and sinister", Pakistan Muslim League-Nawaz leaders have claimed that the assailants tried to enter his office with a "sinister” intention.Of the four men, three were wearing hoodies and their face was covered with a mask. The fourth person was donning a suit and was without a face mask, according to the ANI report.The four assailants immediately fled the site after security officials called the police. Local police have registered a criminal case against the four.Sharif's daughter and vice-president of PML-N, Maryam Nawaz took to Twitter to condemn the incident. "Those who toyed with Nawaz Sharif's life during his detention have not stopped yet... May God not give anyone a lowly and cowardly enemy," she said in a post on the micro-blogging site.Resorting to gross CRIMINALITY in the face of political frustration and defeat. Peoples voice will not be silenced by low life 3rd rate criminals.#NawazSharif is the voice of the people of Pakistan and will not be silenced, Insha’Allah. May Allah protect you #NawazSharif. pic.twitter.com/EJ0G2ch1S0"Resorting to gross CRIMINALITY in the face of political frustration and defeat. People's voice will not be silenced by low life 3rd rate criminals. Nawaz Sharif is the voice of the people of Pakistan and will not be silenced," she added in the following tweet.Shehbaz Sharif, leader of the Opposition in Pakistan's national assembly, also condemned the incident. He said that attackers "seemed to be armed." He also called on London police to investigate the matter from all angles.Strongly condemn cowardly attempt to barge into the office of Hussain Nawaz where Mian Nawaz Sharif was also present. They seemed to be armed and clearly had a sinister design but thankfully, could not succeed. London police must investigate the incident from all angles.In September last, Sharif made a fiery speech against the Pakistani military's alleged involvement in the government. A week later, protesters criticising his speech, gathered outside his family's residential apartment in Avenfield House and raised slogans against him. They also hurled abuses and swear words at him, Pakistan's daily, Dawn had reported.Sharif made the speech via video conferencing from his office on September 20. The speech also provoked a debate in the country over the military's alleged interference in civilian governance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/4-men-try-to-enter-ex-pak-pm-nawaz-sharif-s-office-in-london-pml-n-leaders-allege-sinister-intention-101621671617017.html
22-05-2021||World||New vibe at White House: Hugs are in; masks are (mostly) out||A smiling crowd of unmasked people filling the largest room in the White House. A visiting head of state welcomed with pomp, circumstance and handshakes. A 94-year old Medal of Honor recipient receiving a joyous hug from Vice President Kamala Harris.The White House is springing back to life.Thanks to growing availability of the coronavirus vaccine and a recent relaxation of federal guidance on masks and distancing, the Biden administration is embracing the look and feel of pre-pandemic days on Pennsylvania Avenue. More West Wing staffers are turning up there for work and more reporters will be doing so as well, as the White House spreads the message that a return to normal is possible with vaccinations.There are lingering concerns about safety and mixed messaging — the same contradictions and confusions that are popping up across a nation that is gingerly re-opening. But the images of a reopened, relaxed White House stand in striking contrast to the days when it was the site of several Covid-19 outbreaks last year, a sign of just how far the pandemic has begun to recede in the United States."We're back," White House press secretary Jen Psaki declared at Friday's daily briefing. “I can confirm we're a warm and fuzzy crew and we like to hug around here.”The changes within the White House over the past week were swift and sweeping. Hugs were in, masks were (mostly) out. There was no need to stand six feet apart. And no one seemed to enjoy the shift more than Biden, the most back-slapping and tactile of politicians.The president had been happy to announce the relaxed mask guidance when he appeared in the Rose Garden on May 13 without a mask, just hours after the CDC said those who are fully vaccinated don't need to wear masks in most settings.That cheerfulness carried over this past week into a series of larger public events that would have been out of bounds earlier in Biden's presidency.For the second straight day, the White House on Friday opened the East Room –- the executive mansion's largest room –- to scores of outside guests. Smiling broadly, Biden awarded the Medal of Honor for the first time as commander in chief, giving it to 94-year-old retired Col. Ralph Puckett Jr. for acts of bravery during the Korean War some 70 years ago.The White House timed Friday's ceremony to coincide with the visit of South Korea's president, Moon Jae-in, who joined Biden at the event before their policy meetings. Both world leaders repeatedly clasped Puckett's hands and crowded in for a photo with the war hero's extended family.A day earlier, an even larger group of lawmakers and other guests were on hand to witness Biden sign legislation to counter an alarming spike in crimes against Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif., and Sen. Susan Collins, R-Maine, were among the lawmakers trading hugs and kisses.“The nicest part is being able to shake hands again and to see people's smiles,” Collins marveled at one point.Afterward, lawmakers who helped shepherd the legislation through Congress surrounded Biden as he signed the measure into law. The president also engaged in an act that had largely disappeared from official Washington during the pandemic: He shook hands with a few guests before leaving.Earlier that day, he had welcomed the newest Kennedy Center honorees to the White House for a visit that marked the return of celebrity wattage to the property.By multiple accounts from Kennedy Center Honors recipients, the White House event was high-spirited, with Biden seemingly thrilled to have visitors.Debbie Allen called the president, “so engaging and open. He spent a lot more time with us than I expected.”Joan Baez said the official visit “turned into a jolly romp,” included a tour of the Rose Garden and culminated in Baez singing for Biden.Due to social distancing guidelines, the number of journalists allowed inside the White House shrunk once the pandemic hit, with the briefing room only about a quarter full for Psaki's daily question-and-answer sessions.Capacity is slated to go to 50 percent soon, with the goal of a full return by summer. The daily Covid-19 testing requirement for staff and most journalists was also expected to soon be waived for the fully vaccinated. And the parking spaces around the West Wing and Eisenhower Executive Office Building have been fuller as of late.Psaki said the effort to return to a more normal vibe was part of "continuing to open the White House up, the people's house up to the American people.”But questions remain about protocol.Abiding by the safety guidelines is a matter of the honor system. And Psaki acknowledged Friday that the White House did not have plans to verify vaccination status. Members of the administration and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention have continued, at times, to offer confusing guidance on exactly when, and by whom, a mask should still be worn.Yet in most ways, the mood has changed dramatically.The first image that Americans saw of Biden at the White House as president was on Inauguration Day, as he sat behind the Resolute Desk in the Oval Office wearing a mask. Aiming to draw a stark contrast with the Trump White House, which took a cavalier attitude toward the virus within the building, the Democratic administration consistently erred on the side of caution, at times exceeding precautions recommended by the CDC.For months, Biden had privately groused that the pandemic prevented him from having face-to-face meetings with lawmakers and world leaders alike, and he chafed at having to conduct diplomacy by Zoom.On Friday, the White House unfurled all of its traditional in-person pageantry for Moon's visit and the two men were able to sit across from each other in the State Dining Room and, later, answer questions before a mask-free audience of diplomats, officials and reporters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/new-vibe-at-white-house-hugs-are-in-masks-are-mostly-out-101621662104735.html
22-05-2021||World||Biden admin backs dating sites to boost plateauing vaccination campaign in US||A Covid-19 vaccine can save your life and get you a date.The Biden White House on Friday threw its support behind - somewhat awkwardly - vaccination features introduced on dating apps such as Tinder, Match and Hinge.“We have finally found the one thing that makes us all more attractive: a vaccination,” Andy Slavitt, senior adviser to President Joe Biden on coronavirus response, said at a White House briefing.Vaccinated people are 14% more likely to get a date, he added, citing data from OKCupid, a dating app.These sites plan to - or have already - introduce a feature that allows users to display badges announcing they are vaccinated and filter out respondents who are not.More than 161 million Americans have been vaccinated, receiving at least one dose of the two-shot Pfizer-BioNTech and Moderna vaccines or one and final of single-dose Johnson & Johnson vaccine. That is 57.6% of the eligible population, 12 and older now, and 48.6% of the total population.The number of shots administered every day is plateauing in many American states, and vaccine hesitancy is now seen as key hurdle by public health experts and officials.The Biden administration has tried various initiatives to overcome it, and encourage Americans to get inoculated, starting with the president and the first lady Jill Biden getting their shots publicly on live telecast. Their predecessors Donald Trump and Melania Trump got theirs’ quietly and unannounced, in keeping with the former president’s reluctance to acknowledge publicly the magnitude of the threat posed by SARS-Cov2, the virus that causes Covid-19, despite being fully aware of it privately.The Biden administration has made it possible for Americans to find a vaccination centre within 8km of wherever they live and has announced that Lyft and Uber are offering free rides to these centres, and back.Slavitt insisted it is an initiative of the dating apps, but the New York Times reported citing unidentified officials that the White House rallied the apps to participate.Dating apps have 50 million Americans among their users. And, the Biden administration finds that an effective way to broaden its vaccination effort.“Social distancing and dating were always a bit of a challenging combination,” Slavitt said, announcing the industry-wide vaccine feature.He added: “So today, dating sites like Bumble, Tinder, Hinge, Match, OkCupid, BLK, Chispa, Plenty of Fish, and Badoo are announcing a series of features to encourage vaccinations and help people … meet people who have that universally attractive quality: They’ve been vaccinated against Covid-19.”The awkward part of the announcement? “Alright, got through that,” said Slavitt, after announcing the initiative, relieved seemingly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/biden-admin-backs-dating-sites-to-boost-plateauing-vaccination-campaign-in-us-101621658755719.html
22-05-2021||World||Nepal President dissolves parliament; election to be held in November||In a dramatic turn of events, Nepal President Bidya Devi Bhandari on Friday midnight dissolved the parliament and announced mid-term polls on November 12 and 19.Bhandari’s announcement came on Friday midnight after she endorsed the recommendation to dissolve the parliament made by Prime Minister K P Sharma Oli.Watch: Nepal president dissolves Parliament, calls for fresh election in NovemberA press statement issued by the Office of President said the parliament was dissolved and dates of midterm polls were announced in line with Article 76 (7) of the Constitution of Nepal.Also Read: Opposition mulls options to 'oust' Nepal PM Oli as political crisis deepensThe council of ministers has recommended conducting`the first phase of the poll on November 12 and the second phase on November 19.Nepal’s political crisis had taken a dramatic turn on Friday as embattled Prime Minister K P Sharma Oli and the Opposition parties staked separate claims for the formation of a new government by submitting letters of support from lawmakers to the President.Prime Minister Oli had reached the President's Office Shital Niwas and presented his list, a couple of minutes ahead of the Opposition leaders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/nepal-president-dissolves-parliament-election-to-be-held-in-november-101621650178068.html
22-05-2021||World||China asserts it will pick heir to Dalai Lama||China on Friday said that it will choose the successor to the India-based Dalai Lama through the process of “drawing lots from the golden urn”, with the candidate subject to approval of the Chinese government. A policy paper released on Friday all but ruled out the scope for the 14th and current Dalai Lama to himself choose his successor.Citing historical precedence, the paper said the reincarnation of the Dalai Lama and other “living Buddhas” has been subjected to approval by the central government since an ordinance was passed during the Qing Dynasty, between 1644 and 1911.“The ordinance stipulated that the reincarnation of the Dalai Lama and other grand living Buddhas had to follow the procedure of drawing lots from the golden urn, and the selected candidate would be subject to approval by the government of China,” said the paper, titled “Tibet Since 1951: Liberation, Development and Prosperity”.The Dalai Lama, who is 85, had fled to India in 1959 following a crackdown on an uprising by the people of Tibet.The Tibetan leader was granted political asylum in India and the Tibetan government-in-exile has been based in Dharamsala since then.In 2017, the Chinese foreign ministry had told HT about the process it would follow on the Dalai Lama’s reincarnation. “The reincarnation of the Dalai Lama must be conducted according to religious rituals and historical conventions, including drawing lots from the golden urn in front of the Shakyamuni (Buddha) statue at Jokhang temple in Lhasa, which embodies the Buddhist spirit,” the ministry had said, adding, “(and) not by what the 14th Dalai Lama has said”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-asserts-it-will-pick-heir-to-dalai-lama-101621649276426.html
22-05-2021||World||WHO: Covid deaths 2 to 3 times higher||The official death toll from the Covid-19 pandemic is likely to be a “significant undercount”, the World Health Organization (WHO) said on Friday, estimating that the true figure of direct and indirect deaths could be “two to three times higher”.Presenting its annual World Health Statistics report, the WHO estimated that total deaths from the pandemic in 2020 were at least 3 million or 1.2 million more than the 1.8 million figure officially reported.By May 20, 2021, WHO statistics showed around 3.4 million people had died globally as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic, although the real figure could be much higher, the WHO said.With the rising death toll in Latin America and in Asia as new variants spread, the death toll “would truly be two to three times higher”, said Samira Asma, the WHO’s assistant director-general in its data and analytics division. “So I think safely about 6-8 million deaths could be an estimate,” Asma told a virtual press briefing.Meanwhile, severely ill Covid patients in Africa are more likely to die than those on other continents, which could be because of a lack of critical care equipment, a study has said. The study was done jointly by experts from Groote Schuur Hospital and University of Cape Town.On the vaccine front, the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies said Asia is facing a supply crisis, with Nepal and Bangladesh having run out of shots.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/who-covid-deaths-2-to-3-times-higher-101621649324869.html
22-05-2021||World||Ceasefire, celebrations, uneasy calm||A ceasefire between Israel and Hamas, the group that controls the Gaza Strip, appeared to hold on Friday after 11 days of deadly fighting that pounded the Palestinian enclave and forced countless Israelis to seek shelter from rockets. Gaza City was quiet under a cover of clouds, with a thin column of smoke wafting into the skies after Israeli airstrikes came to a halt.Palestinians celebrateCelebrations were seen on Gaza’s streets in the minutes after the truce began as cars honked their horns and guns were fired in the air, while in the occupied West Bank, joyful crowds also took to the streets.In Gaza, five more bodies were pulled from the rubble, taking the death toll to 243, including 66 children. The Israeli military said a soldier was killed as well as 12 civilians.Despite the truce, Israeli police fired stun grenades at Palestinian worshippers near Jerusalem’s Al-Aqsa mosque compound on Friday. AFP reporters said forces fired rubber bullets and stun grenades at unarmed Palestinian protesters.The Palestinian Red Crescent said 21 people were hurt in the Al-Aqsa clashes, including two who were hospitalised.Also Read| Joe Biden vows to help 'rebuild' Gaza, insists on two-state solutionUS President Joe Biden commended Israeli PM Benjamin Netanyahu and Egypt’s President Abdel Fattah al-Sisi for working out the ceasefire, saying he believes there’s a “genuine opportunity to make progress”.Biden also recalled his six phone calls with Netanyahu during the 11-day conflict, and “intensive high-level discussions, hour by hour, literally” that US officials had with Egypt and the Palestinian Authority.“I believe the Palestinians and Israelis equally deserve to live safely and securely and to enjoy equal measures of freedom, prosperity, and democracy,” Biden said, “My administration will continue our quiet and relentless diplomacy towards that end.”Residents on both sides of the conflict voiced relief that a ceasefire had taken effect. “People from both sides are done with what’s going on,” said Amwrah Dana, a Palestinian resident of Jerusalem. In Tel Aviv, Avital Fast said, “I hope the truce will remain because the only thing that we want here is to live our life without any alarms or fire.”Also Read| Palestinians clash with Israeli police in Jerusalem hours after ceasefireUS secretary of state Antony Blinken will soon visit West Asia and hold talks with Israeli, Palestinian and regional counterparts to discuss “recovery efforts”, said US state department spokesman Ned Price.Also in the US, Vermont senator Bernie Sanders is leading an effort to halt a $735 million arms sale to Israel amid mounting criticism of Israel. Sanders introduced a resolution on Thursday to block the weapons transfer.In Pakistan, seven people were killed and 13 injured when a bomb exploded during a pro-Palestine rally in the Balochistan province on Friday. The rally was taken out to express solidarity with the people of Gaza.With inputs from Yashwant Raj in Washington, DC||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/ceasefire-celebrations-uneasy-calm-101621649041855.html
22-05-2021||World||Gaza media building owner complains to ICC: Lawyer||The owner of a Gaza building housing international media that was destroyed in an Israeli airstrike is lodging a complaint with the International Criminal Court, his lawyer said.The complaint by Jawad Mehdi says that the attack on May 15 which flattened Jala Tower, housing the offices of US news agency Associated Press and Al Jazeera television, was a "war crime".The filing, a copy of which was seen by AFP, comes after the chief prosecutor of the ICC said last week that "crimes" may have been committed during the recent violence between Israel and the Palestinians."The owner of this building, who is a Palestinian, has mandated his lawyers to file a war crime complaint with the International Criminal Court," lawyer Gilles Devers said in a statement.Devers told AFP outside the court, where around 10 pro-Palestinian protesters were gathered, that Israel could show "no military objective" for the attack."We hear a lot that this tower could have been destroyed because there was equipment or an armed resistance team. This is something that we totally deny after studying the case," Devers said."International law is that you can only harm civilian property if it is used for military purposes, and that was not the case. So we say it today in front this court and in this complaint."Devers said the complaint would be formally sent to the court by email later Friday.Israel claimed that Hamas military intelligence units were in the building.Mehdi said at the time that an Israeli intelligence officer warned him he had one hour to ensure the building was evacuated before a missile slammed into the 13-storey building.The ICC has no obligation to consider complaints filed to its prosecutor, who can decide independently what cases to submit to judges at the court.The ICC had already opened an investigation in March into possible war crimes in the Palestinian Territories by both Israeli forces and Palestinian armed groups since 2014.The move infuriated Israel which is not a member of the court, while Palestine has been a state party to the ICC since 2015.Prosecutor Bensouda said last week that she noted with "great concern the escalation of violence" in the West Bank and Gaza "and the possible commission of crimes under the Rome Statute," which founded the ICC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/gaza-media-building-owner-complains-to-icc-lawyer-101621643257539.html
22-05-2021||World||Joe Biden vows to help 'rebuild' Gaza, insists on two-state solution||President Joe Biden on Friday pledged to help organize efforts to rebuild Gaza and said creating a Palestinian state alongside Israel is the "only answer" to the conflict.Biden also said he had told the Israelis to stop "intercommunal fighting" in the flashpoint city of Jerusalem.However he stressed "there is no shift in my commitment, commitment to the security of Israel" and added that until the region "unequivocally" acknowledges Israel's existence "there will be no peace."The idea of a two-state solution -- with a sovereign Palestinian state alongside Israel and Jerusalem as their shared capital -- has been the cornerstone of decades of international diplomacy aimed at ending the Israeli-Palestinian conflict.US policy under Donald Trump was criticized as being blatantly pro-Israel and ignoring the Palestinians.A Mideast peace plan devised by Trump's adviser and son in law Jared Kushner was billed as providing for a two-state solution. But that blueprint envisioned a Palestinian state with only limited sovereignty and Israel maintaining security over that state.The plan was rejected out of hand by Palestinian leaders.Biden on Friday insisted on a full-blown two state remedy."There is no shift in my commitment to the security of Israel, period, no shift, not at all," he said."But I tell you what there is a shift in. The shift is that we still need a two-state solution. It is the only answer, the only answer," Biden stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/joe-biden-vows-to-help-rebuild-gaza-insists-on-two-state-solution-101621642277820.html
22-05-2021||World||South Korea's Moon meets Joe Biden, hails 'America's return'||South Korean President Moon Jae-in welcomed “America’s return” to the world stage after his meeting with President Joe Biden on Friday and said both leaders pledged to work closely toward denuclearization of the Korean peninsula.Moon came to Washington seeking renewed diplomatic urgency by the US on curbing North Korea’s nuclear program, even as the White House signaled that it is taking a longer view on the issue. High on Biden's list for the meeting as well: coordination in vaccine distribution, climate change and regional security concerns spurred by China.Their meeting was only Biden's second in-person session with a foreign leader because of the coronavirus pandemic.Their formal talks in the afternoon ran long, Biden said, noting his staff interrupted repeatedly to warn they were over time. “But I enjoyed the meeting so much that it caused us to move everything back,” Biden said, as he highlighted the two countries’ “long history of shared sacrifice.”Moon said “The world is welcoming America’s return,” an oblique reference to former President Donald Trump's attempts to disengage on some aspects of American diplomacy.The White House announced last month that it had completed a review of North Korea policy and Biden would veer from the strategies of his two most recent predecessors, rejecting both Trump’s deeply personal effort to win over North Korean leader Kim Jong Un and Barack Obama’s more hands-off approach.But the administration has yet to detail what its third-way effort to try to prod the North to abandon its nuclear program will look like.Moon started his day at the White House complex by meeting with Vice President Kamala Harris and top Biden advisers. Moon also participated in a Medal of Honor ceremony for Ralph Puckett, a 94-year-old Army veteran who was celebrated for his gallantry during the Korean War more than 60 years ago.“Without the sacrifice of veterans including Colonel Puckett ... freedom and democracy we enjoy today couldn’t have blossomed in Korea,” said Moon, who hailed Puckett as “true hero.”Moon, who will leave office next May, is eager to resume stalled talks between Washington and Pyongyang and between Seoul and Pyongyang. But the Biden administration, which confirmed in March that it had made outreach efforts to the North without success, has been less enthusiastic about the idea of direct negotiations in the near term.Asked Thursday whether Biden was open to holding direct talks with Kim, as Trump did twice, press secretary Jen Psaki demurred.“I don’t expect that to be top on his agenda,” she said of Biden.Still, Moon made clear before the meeting that he would nudge Biden to renew diplomatic efforts with the North.“I will not be pressed by time or become impatient during the remainder of my term," Moon told reporters this month. “However, if there is an opportunity to restart the clock of peace and advance the peace process on the Korean Peninsula, I will do everything I can.”A senior administration official, who was not authorized to discuss the matter publicly and briefed reporters on Moon’s visit on the condition of anonymity, sidestepped questions about whether the administration was willing to offer North Korea sanctions relief to begin dismantling its nuclear and ballistic weapons programs.The official said the US was hoping to chart a “flexible” way forward, well aware of where past efforts went awry.Biden was also expected to use the meeting to press South Korea to adopt a more ambitious 2030 target for curbing carbon emissions and to urge Seoul to do more to counter China’s growing influence in the Indo-Pacific region.Moon was expected to seek Biden’s assistance with helping South Korea boost its coronavirus vaccine supply. South Korea has vaccinated only about 5% of its population.Biden also wanted Moon to take a strong stance on China's activity toward Taiwan and other provocative moves Beijing has made in the region. Biden has sought to rally Pacific allies to coordinate on China, which Biden sees as the United States' fiercest economic competitor.Biden, in the early going of his presidency, has spoken out about concerns with Beijing's trade policies and human rights record and has also highlighted regional allies' concerns about an increasingly assertive Chinese military.Biden has taken note of Japan's concerns that China's growing military activity and broad territorial claims present a security threat. Japan is locked in a dispute with China over Beijing’s claim to the Japanese-controlled Senkaku Islands, called Diaoyu in China, in the East China Sea. He's also looked to strengthen relations with India, which has been tested by a military standoff with China along their disputed border in eastern Ladakh.But South Korea could be more reluctant to speak out about China, an important trading partner that it also sees as key in dealing with the Kim regime.Michael Green, who served as senior director for Asia on the National Security Council during the George W. Bush administration, said South Korea's situation is difficult.“This South Korean policy of strategic ambiguity is proving increasingly awkward and almost untenable for Seoul because other middle powers that are not the US or Japan ... are adjusting their China policies,” said Green, who is senior vice president for Asia and Japan Chair at the Center for Strategic and International Studies.Moon on Thursday visited Arlington National Cemetery just outside Washington and laid a wreath at a memorial to Americans killed during the Korean War. He also visited the US Capitol to meet with Democratic House Speaker Nancy Pelosi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/south-korea-s-moon-meets-joe-biden-hails-america-s-return-101621632072935.html
22-05-2021||World||FBI employee accused of storing classified documents at home||An FBI employee has been indicted on charges that she stored classified documents and other national security information at home over the course of more than a decade, the Justice Department said Friday.Kendra Kingsbury, 48, is accused of having unauthorized possession of a broad swath of sensitive government documents, including materials that describe sources, methods and operations and that contain information about operatives such as a suspected associate of Osama bin Laden.Kingsbury worked as an intelligence analyst in the FBI's Kansas City office for 12 years until her suspension in December 2017. The two-count indictment, filed in the Western District of Missouri, alleges that during that time, Kingsbury illegally removed documents she was granted access to at work and stored them at home.Though Kingsbury held a top-secret security clearance and was assigned to squads covering a range of crimes and threats, she did not have a “need to know” the information in most of the documents, prosecutors say.According to the indictment, the records Kingsbury stored at home included details about specific investigations, sensitive human source operations, intelligence gaps with regard to terrorist organizations and foreign intelligence services, and information about the FBI's technical capabilities. The materials also discuss al-Qaida members, including a suspected bin Laden associate, prosecutors say.The indictment does not provide a reason for why Kingsbury mishandled the documents, nor does it accuse her of having transmitted the information to anyone else. The Justice Department declined to elaborate beyond the indictment on Friday.“The breadth and depth of classified national security information retained by the defendant for more than a decade is simply astonishing,” Alan E. Kohler Jr., the assistant director in charge of the FBI’s Counterintelligence Division, said in a statement.The case underscores the risk to national security posed by “insider threats,” Assistant Attorney General John Demers, the Justice Department's top national security official, said in a statement.Court documents do not identify a lawyer for Kingsbury, of Dodge City, Kansas. A message left at a phone number connected to her was not immediately returned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/fbi-employee-accused-of-storing-classified-documents-at-home-101621631095444.html
22-05-2021||World||Princes William, Harry hit out at BBC for ‘deceit’ in obtaining Diana interview||Britain’s Prince William accused the BBC of failing his mother Princess Diana and poisoning her relationship with Prince Charles after an inquiry found a journalist for the broadcaster deceitfully obtained an interview with her in 1995.William’s rebuke to the public broadcaster comes after a report published on Thursday said the inquiry found that BBC journalist Martin Bashir used deceit to win a sensational 1995 interview with Diana, and that the broadcaster covered up the deception.The inquiry’s report has prompted the British government to warn the broadcaster of potential action.During the “Panorama” interview with Bashir, watched by more than 20 million viewers in Britain, Diana shared details of her crumbling marriage to heir-to-the-throne Prince Charles, as well as admitting to adultery.“It is my view that the deceitful way the interview was obtained substantially influenced what my mother said. The interview was a major contribution to making my parents’ relationship worse and has since hurt countless others,” William, 38, said in a statement.In a separate statement issued at the same time, William’s brother Harry drew broader aim at the media and the “ripple effect of a culture of exploitation and unethical practices [which] ultimately took her life”.Diana died in a high-speed car crash while being chased by paparazzi photographers in Paris at the age of 36 in 1997.The BBC set up the investigation, headed by former senior judge John Dyson, in November following allegations from Diana’s brother Charles Spencer that he had been tricked into introducing her to Bashir.Dyson’s report found that Bashir had shown Spencer fake bank statements suggesting that Diana was being bugged by the security services and that two senior aides were being paid to provide information about her.After it was aired, Bashir repeatedly lied to his bosses about how the interview was obtained, the report said. As questions continued, BBC managers failed to scrutinise his version of events properly and covered up facts about how Bashir had secured the interview.The BBC has written to Buckingham Palace to apologise.Bashir apologised for the fake statements, but said he stood by his evidence from 25 years ago and he did not believe they had prompted Diana to give the interview.Britain’s culture secretary Oliver Dowden, whose brief includes media, said an independent inquiry into the affair highlighted “damning failings at the heart of the BBC”, which is publicly funded. Ministers would now “consider whether further governance reforms at the BBC are needed”, as talks approach for renewal of its royal charter covering its running and regulation, he added.Prime Minister Boris Johnson said: “I hope very much the BBC will be taking every possible step to make sure that nothing like this ever happens again.”The BBC’s media editor Amol Rajan on Thursday said blanket criticism from government ministers to the future king and his brother left the BBC “severely injured, probably scarred”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/princes-william-harry-hit-out-at-bbc-for-deceit-in-obtaining-diana-interview-101621623133750.html
22-05-2021||India||Pvt donations pour in as India battles pandemic||New Delhi: From software giants in California to face shield makers from the UK, and the Indian diaspora to a Buddhist group — the Narendra Modi government has received aid to fight Covid19 from a wide range of private donors, government data shows. They have supplied medical oxygen infrastructure, life-saving drugs and even infrared thermal scanners over the past few weeks.The data, reviewed y HT, shows that American companies such as Salesforce, Eli Lilly, Bloom Energy and Thermo Fisher Scientific, Swiss major Roche, UK-based Virustatic Shield Ltd and Canada’s PRACSNS are among the list of international donors. Amazon, Virgin Atlantic, Indian communities in New Zealand, Oman and the UK, a Buddhist order known as Chinese Diligent Buddhists of Master Yunyi and Indian corporate majors such as Reliance Industries, Infosys, Bajaj group, ITC and Tata Group have also extended help in this crisis, according to the government records.The international donors have so far provided more than 6,000 oxygen concentrators, one million rapid antigen kits, more than 50,000 vials of life-saving drugs such as tocilizumab and over 100,000 packs of baricitinib. New Delhi also received 400 ventilators, 200 oxygen cylinders, four oxygen plants, 2,370 oxygen masks, 2,870 nasal cannula and 10,480 pulse oximeters among other items, the data shows.The government has waived off basic customs duty and health cess on import of medical oxygen, oxygen-related equipment and ventilators until July 31, 2021. Covid-19 vaccines, remdesivir and its API are exempted from basic customs duty while corporate social responsibility (CSR) activities now include funds spent on makeshift Covid-19 hospitals, temporary care facilities, awareness campaigns and public outreach programmes to promote vaccination.All non-monetary donations from the private sector to the Centre are being coordinated and provided with end-to-end support by the government’s think tank Niti Aayog. “Private sector, both Indian and International, has been at the forefront of fight against the second wave of covid pandemic. The private sector donors including industries, multinational companies, chambers of commerce and industries, voluntary agencies, and generous individual donors have all come together in this fight,” said Niti Ayog CEO Amitabh Kant. Official data shows Salesforce has donated 2,200 oxygen concentrators and 10,000 pulse oximeters; Indian communities in the UK and Oman have given 708 oxygen concentrators, 2,370 nasal cannula and oxygen masks, 480 pulse oximeters and 30 oxygen concentrators, the data shows. Documents accessed by HT show PerkinElmer sent antigen test kits, ThermoFischer Scientific donated viral transport mediums (VTMs) and disposable PPE components, while Virustatic Shield Ltd gave face shields and Indo Swiss Chambers of Commerce sent face masks.USIBC, Amazon, Bloom Energy, SNJ Charitable Trusts, NongHyup Bank, Indo Thai Chamber of Commerce, Virgin Atlantic and PRACSNS are among those who contributed oxygen-related equipment, while the Buddhist organisation gave 76 oxygen concentrators.About 100 private organisations have contributed so far and an official said that more Covid-related donations were on their way. Indian corporate majors, too, have extended help. The Tata Group helped in setting up Sardar Patel COVID Care Centre and Hospital and imported 14 cryogenic containers for oxygen, among other things. The Bajaj Group installed four oxygen plants in rural hospitals, and are installing oxygen plants in some key government hospitals in western India among other activities. “Reliance Industries is providing over 1,000 tonnes of liquid medical oxygen per day. They have organised airlifting of 24 ISO containers from Saudi Arabia, Germany, Belgium, The Netherlands and Thailand, and are adding 500 MT of transportation capacity for liquid oxygen,” an official document said.“Infosys is helping Karnataka government to scale up the call centre operations, Raytheon Technologies has donated oxygen concentrators, Escorts is setting up a 1000 bed hospital in Faridabad, DCM Shriram is setting up 7 PSA oxygen generation plants at district hospitals in Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh, Honda Motorcycle & Scooter India and Hero MotoCorp are setting up 100 beds hospitals each, Microtek is importing 2000 oxygen concentrators, Venkateshwara Wires, Man Structurals, Balaji Industrial and Basant Fiberteck together have donated 500 beds to COVID Centre at Jaipur,” the official document added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pvt-donations-pour-in-as-india-battles-pandemic-101621707598666.html
22-05-2021||India||Vaccines work against B.1.617 but single dose may not be enough: UK data||The B.1.617.2 variant of the coronavirus, which is believed to have contributed to the devastating second wave of Covid-19 in India, does not render vaccines ineffective but it could require people to get both doses in order to be adequately protected against symptomatic disease. The inference, based on preliminary data from infections among people in the UK, has implications for India’s vaccination drive, according to experts who said the country must now focus on expanding coverage and may need to reconsider its decision to increase the gap between shots. Data from the UK, first reported by the Financial Times on Saturday, suggested a single dose may be significantly less effective against the new variant. “One dose offered 33 per cent protection against symptomatic infection from B.1.617.2, and 51 per cent against B.1.1.7,” said the report. The difference in protection reduced to a mere 6 percentage point when people were vaccinated with both doses, the report added. The data was based on a pooled analysis of people who received the Pfizer-BioNTech and the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine in the UK.When both doses were given, the vaccines appeared to offer 81% protection against the B.1.617.2 variant and 87% protection against B.1.1.7. Experts said that though there is a drop, vaccines continue to protect against the B.1.617 variant. “In any case both shots are required for good and lasting immunity so the focus should continue to be that. The data so far shows reduced but sufficient protection against B.1.617,” said Shahid Jameel, virologist and director, Trivedi School of Bioscience, Ashoka University. “The focus should be on vaccination at scale,” he added. A second expert said the findings reinforce concerns around delayed intervals for second doses, a policy that India and the UK have followed. “The UK vaccine dose delay policy is controversial and risky, and the Indian policy needs reconsidering. The protection conferred by a single dose is not going to be enough to stop the spread of B.1.617, particularly as the vaccines in use in India are not the strongest known. Even the mRNA vaccines struggle against the resistant variants when given only once,” said John P Moore, virologist and professor at Cornell University’s Weill Cornell Medicine. On May 13, India announced that people on Covishield (the India-made version of the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine) need to wait 12-16 weeks for their second doses, citing real world data from UK that showed improved efficacy when the gap between shots was expanded. But on May 15, the UK itself reduced the gap from 12 weeks to 8 weeks and accelerated rollout to more groups, citing the B.1.617 variant. Jameel added that it might be too soon to determine if the extended dosing schedules pose a risk. The B.1.617 is a variant with three sub-lineages – B.1.617.1, B.1.617.2 and B.1.617.3. Among these, whole genomic sequencing has shown that B.1.617.2 has grown rapidly in several parts of the world, including India, UK and US. According to an updated analysis by outbreak.info of data on the global repository GISAID, 58% of the samples sequenced in India over the last 45 days are of this variant, which now appears to have become dominant after rising from relative obscurity in mid-March. Along with B.1.617.1, the B.1.617 lineage now accounts for 70% of the samples analysed in the last 45 days. Moore added that the data from UK reinforce what has been observed in lab analysis. “I am not surprised by the reports from the UK. The B.1.617 variant is known to have a set of mutations associated with antibody resistance, and assays in a UK lab (Gupta in Cambridge) confirm that. It’s a set of mutations not any individual one that’s responsible,” he said. In an interview to Global News, the CEO of BioNTech, Ugur Sahin said on May 20 that he expects the Pfizer-BioNTech mRNA vaccine have around 70-75% efficacy in preventing infection of the B.1.617 variants. While this is lower than the 95% protection from the variant that was first seen in Wuhan, experts said vaccines are likely to still offer significant protection from severe illness.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vaccines-work-against-b-1-617-but-single-dose-may-not-be-enough-uk-data-101621707479767.html
22-05-2021||India||Delhi records 3.58% positivity rate, lowest cases since Mar 31||With 2,260 new cases of Covid-19, Delhi reported the lowest daily incidence of the viral infection in 52 days on Saturday, and the positivity rate – the proportion of samples that return positive – dropped to 3.58%, a figure, experts said, showed the fourth wave was gradually coming under control in the national capital.The Capital has been under a lockdown for a month; the “last resort” step was taken after a massive surge in infections overwhelmed the health care infrastructure and resulted in shortages of essential supplies such as medical oxygen and life-saving drugs.In April, Delhi reported its worst surge of Covid-19, with the number of cases recorded in a single day shooting up to over 28,000 and the positivity rate to 36%, meaning more than one in three people tested were found to have the infection. It has now reduced to around one in 33 tested people having the infection.Dr Jacob John, former head of the department of virology at Christian Medical College-Vellore, said the government should now focus on vaccinating a significant proportion of the population to prevent a third wave.With reports of a shortage of vaccines for those between the ages of 18 and 44 years, the number of jabs given in Delhi almost halved on Saturday. About 50,000 jabs were administered, according to the official health bulletin; the daily jabs crossed 100,000 a day after the vaccination was opened up for the younger population in the Capital.“Some curbs have to remain – malls, gyms, cinemas, weddings any place where people gather. With a large number of people exposed to the infection, there might not be a surge for the next few months... this time needs to be utilised to vaccinate a significant proportion of the people,” said Dr Amit Singh, associate professor, Centre for Infectious Disease Research, Indian Institute of Science, Bengaluru. He added: “In the absence of vaccines, the government also needs to see whether it is prepared with beds and oxygen needed in case there is a surge again.” On Saturday, Delhi reported 182 deaths due to the viral infection, dipping below the 200 mark for the first time in 34 days. However, with fewer cases and a high number of deaths still being reported, the seven day rolling average case fatality ratio (CFR) – proportion of deaths among those who test positive – has shot up to 6.15%. The cumulative CFR – based on the total number of cases and deaths reported so far – is at 1.63%, higher than the national average of 1.1%.As per the latest health bulletin, the new fatalities pushed the death toll due to Covid-19 in the national capital to 23,013. The number of daily cases in the city was 2,260, Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain said on Twitter, adding: “These are lowest numbers after 31 March. Still need to take all precautions and follow Covid appropriate behaviour.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-records-3-58-positivity-rate-lowest-cases-since-mar-31-101621707419654.html
22-05-2021||India||Delhi doctors report rare mucormycosis in GI tract||Not only have the cases of the opportunistic fungal infection mucormycosis, referred to as black fungus, gone up in Delhi, a city hospital has now reported two cases of a rare form of the infection in the gastrointestinal tract. The huge second wave of Covid-19 has driven a surge in cases of mucormycosis, which mainly affects those who have uncontrolled diabetes and were prescribed steroids during Covid-19 treatment. The infection is aggressive and if untreated, can kill up to 80% of those infected. In others, it can lead to loss of eyesight and deformity of facial structures as doctors debride or remove the dead tissue. Mucormycosis usually affects the nose, eye, and then moves on to the brain. The other presentation is mucormycosis in the lungs. Having the infection in the gastrointestinal tract is rare even among the rare fungal infection cases. When it does happen in severely immunocompromised people, it is usually in the stomach or the large intestine. However, the two patients who came to Sir Ganga Ram hospital had the infection in the small intestine. Both the patients had Covid-19, were diabetics, but only one had received steroid for treatment of Covid-19. The city has reported at least 203 cases of mucormycosis following the second wave of Covid-19, with Sir Ganga Ram hospital treating the highest number of patients. It was the first to raise an alarm in the first week of May. A 56-year-old Delhi resident, who lost his wife and two other family members to Covid-19, started experiencing abdominal pain, which he thought was a garden-variety gastritis and took medicines at home. When he went to Sir Ganga Ram hospital, his CT scan revealed that he had a hole in his small intestine. His initial mild Covid-19 symptoms also worsened and he had to be put on ventilator support. Dr Ushast Dhir, senior consultant in the department of Surgical Gastroenterology and Liver Transplantation at the hospital, said, “Ulceration of the jejunam (the first part of the small Intestine) in the patient raised my suspicion of the fungal disease and the patient was immediately started on antifungal treatment . We sent a portion of the removed intestine for biopsy. The biopsy confirmed our worst fear of mucormycosis in the small intestine.” Another 68-year-old patient, who had recovered from Covid-19, started having mild abdominal pain. He was diabetic and had received steroids for the treatment of Covid-19. Although the clinical examination did not show any signs of intestinal perforations, because of a high degree of suspicion Dr Piyush Ranjan, senior consultant of gastroenterology at the hospital, got an urgent CT scan. The scan revealed a small hole in the small intestine just like the first case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-doctors-report-rare-mucormycosis-in-gi-tract-101621706699124.html
22-05-2021||India||India’s vaccination status compared to foreign countries is scary, says Mayawati||Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief and former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Mayawati on Saturday expressed concern at what she described as the poor vaccination status of India as compared to other countries. “I think India’s vaccination status vis-a-vis foreign countries is pretty scary. The second jab has been administered to an even lesser number which is quite serious and worrisome,” Mayawati tweeted. She also urged the Centre and the state governments to pay attention towards this. Mayawati was among the first few Opposition leaders across the country to back the government’s vaccination plan and take the jab.Mayawati had taken her first shot of the Covishield vaccine on March 13 at Lucknow’s TS Mishra Super Specialty Hospital. Last Sunday (May 16), chief minister Yogi Adityanath had apprised Prime Minister Narendra Modi of the vaccination status of the state. Along with vaccination for people in the age group of 45 years and above across all 75 districts of the state, vaccination for the 18-plus category has also been started in 23 districts of the state. The state government has been holding special vaccination camps for various professionals.Around the time Mayawati tweeted on the vaccination status on Saturday, Adityanath announced that special camps to vaccinate judicial officers and media personnel would be held across the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-vaccination-status-compared-to-foreign-countries-is-scary-says-mayawati-101621705139207.html
22-05-2021||India||Kerala adds 28,514 new Covid-19 cases, hike in death rate cause for concern||One of the achievements of Kerala in the battle against Covid-19 is its low mortality rate but that too is under threat with the death rate going up steadily during the second wave of Coronavirus infections, the state health ministry data shows. Kerala reported 176 deaths on Saturday, the highest since the outbreak began. In the last two days, the death toll was 320. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said the rise in the death rate was a serious concern and it is a big challenge to keep up the low-mortality rate. “According to experts, the peak of the second wave is almost over in the state. But virus-related complications and deaths are on the rise. It is a big concern. Our hospitals are fully equipped to face the threat,” he said. The state’s mortality rate is the lowest in the country 0.4 per cent against the national average of 1.30 per cent but going by the recent hike it will be difficult for the state to maintain its low mortality rate, experts said. The CM also said the government will do a medical auditing on black fungus cases and there is no shortage of medicines for the new malady. “Experts said such cases were reported even before the pandemic also. But there is a spike in such cases now. It has to be studied in detail,” he said. At least 28 black fungus cases and two deaths have been reported so far. Experts said rampant self-medication by Covid-19 patients including steroids was one of the reasons for its surge. Though the government had advised home care for mild Covid-19 patients, many of them started taking drugs on their own without realising their complications-- and some of the medicines like Tocilizumab are readily available in medical stores, they said. Kerala on Saturday added 28,514 new Covid-19 cases when 1,26,028 people were tested with a test positivity rate of 22.63 per cent. The active caseload has also come down to 2,89,283 after 45,400 patients recovered. Among those infected 123 are health workers and despite two shots of the vaccine, many health workers are getting infected again in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-adds-28-514-new-covid-19-cases-hike-in-death-rate-cause-for-concern-101621703818965.html
22-05-2021||India||Covid-19 vaccination at workplaces: Who can receive jabs, Centre issues order||Vaccination drive taken by employers at workplaces can be extended to all the family members and dependents of the employees, the Centre has said in a letter written to all states and Union territories.The clarification comes as the Union health ministry was receiving several queries regarding the coverage of family members of workers, after the Centre allowed both private and government officers to operationalise vaccination centre at workplaces from April 11. At that time, vaccination was limited to people above 45 years. From May 1, in which everyone above the age of 18 years is eligible for vaccination."The family members and dependents of the workers, as defined by the respective employers, can also be covered with Covid-19 vaccination at industrial CVCs (Covid vaccination centres)and the workplace CVCs," the letter said. However, the vaccine has to be procured by the private hospitals with whom the employers may tie up. In the ongoing phase, state governments and private hospitals can procure vaccines directly from the manufacturers.In government offices, those who are above the age of 45 years can be covered through the free vaccine doses supplied by the Centre. The 18-44 age group employees of government officers may be covered through the vaccine doses procured by the state governments, the ministry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-vaccination-at-workplaces-who-can-receive-jabs-centre-issues-order-101621700876828.html
22-05-2021||India||Black Fungus declared an epidemic in Bihar||The Bihar government on Saturday evening declared Mucormycosis or Black Fungus an epidemic under Section 2 of the Epidemic Disease Act 1897.Providing this information through a tweet in Hindi, health minister Mangal Pandey said, “Following instructions from chief minister Nitish Kumar, Black Fungus has been made a notifiable disease under the Epidemic Disease Act. Government and private hospitals will have to inform the health department through a civil surgeon. Patients will get free medicine.”A notifiable disease is any disease that is required by law to be reported to government authorities. The collation of information allows the authorities to monitor the disease and provides early warning of possible outbreaks.The Centre, a few days ago, had asked states to declare Black Fungus as an epidemic under the Epidemic Disease Act within the pandemic. The state till Friday had reported 117 cases of Black Fungus.The Bihar government had on May 18 designated the AIIMS-Patna and the IGIMS as centres of excellence for the treatment of Mucormycosis, said Bihar’s additional chief secretary (health) Pratyaya Amrit.AIIMS has created a separate 20-bed ward for effective treatment of such cases.Bihar has diverted around 14,000 vials of Liposomal Amphotericin-B injection, a specific drug for the treatment of black fungus, available under the Kala-azar elimination programme. Around 6,000 vials of the injection from this stock were made available to different hospitals.Bihar CM Nitish Kumar launched mobile RT-PCR testing vans which will move in rural areas to speed up testing for Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/black-fungus-declared-an-epidemic-in-bihar-101621700878929.html
22-05-2021||India||‘Ramdev was reading WhatsApp forward’: Patanjali on ‘allopathy is stupid’ video||Patanjali Yogpeeth Trust on Saturday clarified that yoga guru Ramdev has the utmost respect for medical science and said that Indian Medical Association (IMA)'s allegation that the yoga guru defamed allopathy and scientific medicine is untrue.In a statement issued by the Haridwar-based Patanjali Yogpeeth Trust, it was said that Ramdev was reading ‘a forwarded WhatsApp message received by him’. “Swami ji has no ill-will against modern science and good practitioners of modern medicine. What is being attributed against him is false and nugatory,” said the statement released by Patanjali Yogpeeth Trust general secretary Acharya Balakrishna.In the 140-second long video, which has gone viral, the yoga guru can be seen reading out from his phone, where he is heard saying, “Allopathy is a stupid science. Firstly, hydroxychloroquine failed, the remdesivir failed… plasma therapy effectiveness is now banned, the steroids have failed. Even Fabiflu and Ivermectin have also failed.”Yoga guru claiming Allopathy as stupid science. This pandemic brings new shock every day. pic.twitter.com/1W9ojVOIGY“Everyone might not agree upon what I am going to say next but lakhs of people have died due to intake of allopathic medicines. More people have died due to allopathic medicines than due to lack of medical oxygen or shortage of beds,” Ramdev can be heard saying in the video.Ramdev then says that he is not against allopathy or modern medicine or improvements brought about by science and technology in the field of medicine but the theories and the practices that are applied are not sufficient.The yoga guru came under fire from the IMA and several doctors who demanded his prosecution over his statements. They wrote strongly worded statements to the government and said that Ramdev’s words cast a bad light on the sacrifices made by health workers during the pandemic and also misleads unsuspecting citizens of the country.“The Union health minister (Harsh Vardhan) who himself is a practising modern medicine allopathic postgraduate and head of this (health) ministry, should either accept the challenge and accusation of this gentleman and dissolve the modern medical facility or boldly face and prosecute the person for his words of arson on the sovereignty of the country and book him under the Epidemic Act to save millions of people from such unscientific utterances,” the IMA said in a statement earlier on Saturday.(with inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ramdev-has-no-ill-will-towards-modern-science-patanjali-trust-101621700345697.html
22-05-2021||India||What is intestinal black fungus? 2 rare cases of mucormycosis at Delhi hospital||Mucormycosis or black fungus which affects the eyes, the brain or the lungs has emerged as a major threat in India as the country is gradually tiding over the second wave of the Coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic. Amid this, a rare type of black fungus disease has been reported in the national Capital where the fungus infection has been found in the small intestine, reports said quoting the doctors of Delhi's Sir Ganga Ram Hospital. Two such cases have been reported at the private hospital, but one of them did not receive steroid, the misuse of which has been blamed for the rise in the number of fungal infection cases.Both the patients, however, have high blood sugar level and were recovering from Covid-19. Both had to be operated.What is intestinal black fungus?Mucormycosis can attack different organs of the body, but broadly there are two types — rhino orbital cerebral mucormycosis, which affected the nose, the eyes, the mouth and something spread to the brain, and pulmonary mucormycosis that affects the respiratory system.The fungus can also infect the gastrointestinal tract, skin, and other organs but those are rare. The fungal spores are present in the air, soil and even in food.Two 'rare cases in DelhiAs symptoms, both the patients had mild abdominal pain; like that of gastritis. But the CT scan revealed a perforation in the small intestine. Both the patients were above 50 years old, the hospital authorities said, according to news agency PTI. One of them is a 56-year-old, who lost three of his family members, including his wife to Covid. The other person is 69 years old and had received steroids for Covid."These patients, in the majority, are immune-compromised. Majority of gastro-intestinal mucormycosis is seen in organ transplant recipients. The cases treated at Sir Ganga Ram Hospital were unique as they had Covid and small intestine (instead of stomach/colon) was involved in both cases," the statement released by the hospital said.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/what-is-intestinal-black-fungus-2-rare-cases-of-mucormycosis-at-delhi-hospital-101621698241080.html
22-05-2021||India||Cyclone Yaas unlikely to match intensity of super cyclonic storm Amphan, says IMD||Cyclone Yaas, which may hit the West Bengal coast on May 26, is unlikely to match the intensity of Amphan, which had assumed the shape of a Super Cyclone last year at about the same time. “Probability is highest that Yaas will hit the West Bengal coast after intensifying into a very severe cyclone. As of now it is unlikely to match the intensity of Amphan,” said GK Das, director of the IMD’s regional office in Kolkata. On May 25, the wind speed along the West Bengal coastline, while the cyclone is still at sea, would be around 50-60 km per hours gusting up to 70 km per hour. In the early hours of May 26, the wind speed would be around 60–70 km per hour and gusting up to 80 km per hour. ALSO READ | 65 NDRF teams deployed as Yaas likely to become ‘very severe cyclonic storm’“In the forenoon of May 26 the wind speed will reach around 100 km per hour. In the evening as the cyclone approaches, the wind speed would pick up further and may remain around 120 km per hour,” said Das. Amphan had hit the Sunderbans in south Bengal on May 20 last year with a wind speed of 155–165 km per hour and gusting up to 185 km per hour. It had killed 98 people while pummelling through six districts. “It had intensified into a Super Cyclone over the sea around May 18, but had weakened into a very severe cyclone before hitting the Bengal coast on May 20,” said a senior official. But it is not Cyclone Yaas alone that is worrying experts and officials. The spring tide, which coincides with the full moon, is also on May 26. “During the spring tide the water level in the sea and estuaries remains higher than normal and the tides are much higher. If the timing coincides with Cyclone Yaas, the storm surge would be much higher and devastating. Embankments in the Sunderbans may breach and large areas may get flooded. The devastation would be more if the cyclone strikes in an east to west direction as was seen during Cyclone Aila in May 2009,” said Tuhin Ghosh, director of the School of Oceanographic Studies at Jadavpur University. ALSO READ | Cyclone Yaas likely to intensify into very severe cyclonic storm: IMDDistrict administrations particularly in the coastal block and Sunderban islands have already started strengthening the embankments that form the only barricades between the rivers and villages. “We have already started strengthening the embankments and increasing their height so that the water cannot enter the villages over the top of the embankments,” said a senior official of North 24 Parganas, associated with disaster management. The Covid-19 pandemic has added to the worries of the administration. Even though Cyclone Amphan had also hit when Covid-19 was taking its toll, this time the situation is more alarming. On May 20, 2020 when Amphan had made landfall, West Bengal had registered 142 new Covid-19 cases. On May 20 this year the state recorded 19,091 cases. “Last year on May 20, North 24 Parganas, South 24 Parganas and East Midnapore, the three coastal districts which always bear the first brunt of cyclones, had only 234, 66 and 21 active cases respectively. Now, the same districts have 27,268, 8,290 and 5,498 active cases respectively,” said a health department official. District officials said that the number of cyclone and relief shelters, where evacuated people would be kept, was being increased by roping in school and college buildings so that social distancing could be maintained. “Safe homes were being set up in such buildings so that anyone showing symptoms could be isolated after a Rapid Antigen Test. Ambulances were being kept ready and oxygen was being stored in district hospitals and rural health centres. Teams from the electric supply department were also being kept on standby so that in case of power cuts generators could be used,” said a BDO of South 24 Parganas. In the villages of coastal districts, district officials have already started making announcements on loudspeakers about the approaching cyclonic storm and the evacuation process that could be started on May 25. Fishermen were being asked not to venture out into the sea. In Kolkata too, the city police and city’s civic body were gearing up for the storm. Separate teams were being formed for each area, generators, pumps and heavy machines to remove uprooted trees were being kept on standby. Leave of all officials have been cancelled and control rooms have been set up ahead of the approaching cyclone. “We are monitoring the cyclone and by tomorrow the situation about its trajectory would become clearer,” said a meteorological department official in Kolkata.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-yaas-unlikely-to-match-intensity-of-super-cyclonic-storm-amphan-says-imd-101621697518956.html
22-05-2021||India||Corona curfew extended in UP till May 31; active caseload drops below 1 lakh||The Uttar Pradesh government has decided to extend the ongoing partial Corona curfew till 7am on May 31. The restrictions, which have been in place since April 30, were supposed to come to an end on May 24. The restrictions have been extended in several phases in the first and the second week of May. There will be no new curbs, as essential and emergency services, including medical, groceries, industries, e-commerce, will remain exempt. Vaccination too will continue in this period, the government said."The Uttar Pradesh government is committed to safeguard the life and livelihood of people of the state. Keeping this in mind, the policy of partial coronavirus curfew was adopted,” the statement, issued by the government announcing the extension of the lockdown said. It also said that the restrictions yielded positive results. Several states remained under lockdown for the entire month of May as the authorities are not taking the risk of reopening in the last week of the month, at a time when the situation is improving with a steady dip in the number of daily infections.In April, the Covid-19 situation of Uttar Pradesh was precarious with Varanasi emerging as one of the hotspots. After three weeks of 'Corona curfew', the situation seems to have come under control as there has been a 68 per cent fall in the number of active Covid cases since the peak. However, the daily toll in the state is still above 100. From over 3 lakh active Covid-19 cases, the figure has now nosedived to below 1 lakh.On Saturday, the state's active caseload was 94,482, while 226 deaths were recorded in the last 24 hours. Out of these deaths, Lucknow recorded 21 fatalities, followed by 14 in Varanasi and 12 in Gorakhpur and Kanpur and Meerut 10 each, among others.Uttar Pradesh has also become the first state to condict over three lakh tests in a day, the government said on Saturday. Over 3.06 samples were tested for Covid-19 in the last 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/corona-curfew-extended-in-up-till-may-31-101621696844804.html
22-05-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Govt says breastfeeding should not be halted post-vaccination and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Breastfeeding should not be halted even for an hour: Centre on new vaccine rulesAmid doubts and speculations on whether lactating women have to stop breastfeeding for a day or two after getting vaccinated against Covid-19, the Centre on Saturday said that there should be no disruption in breastfeeding because of the vaccine. Read moreCongress appoints VD Satheesan as leader of opposition in KeralaAfter days of uncertainty and long deliberations, the Congress on Saturday, selected senior leader VD Satheesan as the leader of opposition in Kerala. Read more'PMCries': Rahul blames govt for Covid impact on economy, vaccine shortageCongress leader Rahul Gandhi on Saturday criticised the central government over its handling of the pandemic and took a jibe at Prime Minister Narendra Modi over the ongoing Covid-19 situation in the country. Read moreCovid-19: Triple lockdown to continue in Kerala’s MalappuramKerala’s chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Saturday said that the triple lockdown will continue in the Malappuram district, where the test positivity rate is higher. Read moreWTC Final: 'They have all bases covered,' Former batsman says Team India not 'over-dependent' on Virat KohliThe Virat Kohli-led Indian team will face off against Kane Williamson's New Zealand in the inaugural World Test Championship final at Southampton from June 18th. Read moreArjun Kapoor on mom's reaction to dad Boney marrying Sridevi: 'She never said your father has left us high and dry'Actor Arjun Kapoor has said that his mother never harboured any ill will towards his father, producer Boney Kapoor. Boney was married to Mona Shourie, Arjun's mother, when he began a relationship with the late actor Sridevi. Read moreDelhi Police is warning everyone about fake KYC messages: Here's what you need to knowThe cybercrime cell of Delhi Police is warning citizens about a potential scam wherein fraudsters are duping innocent users by asking them to verify their numbers owing to Know Your Customer (KYC) issues. Read moreAmit Trivedi shares clip of hospital staff singing Namo Namo for Covid patientsAmid the times of peril posed by the pandemic, the healthcare workers are doing their best to make the patients feel better. From dedicating songs to make them feel better, many were spotted dancing with the patients to boost up their morale. Read moreWatch | Covid: Is it possible to get 2nd dose of different vaccine? NITI Aayog answers||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-breastfeeding-should-not-be-halted-even-for-an-hour-centre-on-new-vaccine-rules-and-all-the-latest-news-101621694692051.html
22-05-2021||India||Covid stabilising in large parts of country but positivity still over 10% in 382 districts: Govt||The Centre said that even though the Covid-19 pandemic is stabilising in large parts of the country, there is still a long way to go to battle this particular wave as the positivity rate is still over 10 per cent in 382 districts.Addressing a press conference, NITI Aayog member (Health) V K Paul said India was able to come this far in controlling this pandemic through restrictions on social and economic activities and containment and care measures."In large parts of the country, the pandemic is stabilising, the positivity rate and active cases are reducing and recovery rate is rising. It is also being seen that an increase is being seen in other states so this is a mixed picture but overall there has been a decrease in case burden but we have a long way to go to handle this wave and we also have to ensure that there should be no laxity in the steps we take," he said."As the situation improves we need to keep ensuring that the chain of transmission remains broken. In 382 districts, the positivity rate is over 10 per cent so there is still a long way to go to battle this particular wave," he said.Agarwal said a continuous decline in the Covid-19 active cases has been noted in the last 20 days."From 17.13 per cent reported on May 3, the active cases now comprise 11.12 per cent of the country's total infections. A positive trend in the recovery has also been noted. The recovery rate which was 81.7 per cent on May 3 has increased to 87.76 per cent now," he said.Also, the daily recoveries outnumbered daily new cases for ninth consecutive day, he added.Agarwal said despite consistent increase in daily tests, India's daily positivity rate has declined from 24.83 per cent recorded on May 10 to 12.45 per cent on May 22."Also, a slow but relatively better trend in terms of management is being noted in deaths and most fatalities have been noted in six states -- Maharashtra, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, UP, Punjab, Delhi," he said.Agarwal said districts reporting week-on-week increase in tests and decline in case positivity has increased from 210 to 303 districts."Eight states have more than one lakh active cases and 18 states have more than 15 per cent positivity rate," he said.Talking about vaccine wastage he said, Covishield vaccine wastage reduced from 8 per cent in March 1 to one per cent now while Covaxin wastage decreased from 17 per cent to 4 per cent in the same period.Paul clarified that lactating women can get vaccinated."There were reports that after vaccination mothers should not breast feed their child for a couple of days but I want to clarify that breastfeeding should not be stopped and should be continued and in no situation there is any reason in that context to halt or discontinue breastfeeding even for an hour," he said.On Covid-19 prevalence among children, Paul said seropositivity rate between 10-17 years is roughly the same as between 30-40 and children can also spread the infection."Whenever children contracted the infection then almost always symptoms are minimal, very mild disease or they are asymptomatic and because it is mild the mortality is very very less in them," he said."We have a protocol of Covid disease among children. Protecting children from infection is equally important so that they do not become part of the transmission chain and the minimum risk which they face that risk they should bear brunt of so Covid appropriate behaviour is applicable in children too specially those who are mobile over 10 years of age," he said.On mucormycosis or black fungus, Paul said availability of medicines is being increased. Conditions such as diabetes, weakening of the immune system due to use of steroids, prolonged hospital stay and co-morbidities in Covid-19 may increase mucormycosis infection."Steroids is life saving. It is a wonder drug but its irrational use can lead to mucormycosis. So this outbreak does not progress and further harm is not caused, that is our responsibility," he added.Responding to a question, Agarwal said the WHO is yet to reach a consensus on the vaccine passport issue which is on allowing international travel for those fully vaccinated against coronavirus infection."So far there's no consensus at the level of WHO over this. Discussion is still being done if vaccinated people will be allowed. As of now, as per WHO guidelines and guidelines by other countries, people with negative Covid test reports are being allowed. This is in discussion and when we will be able to reach a consensus at the world and WHO level then we will take necessary steps,” he said.He was responding on a question on media reports claiming that people who took Covaxin jabs may not be allowed to travel internationally as the WHO hasn't included it in its list of vaccines. The reports were separately denied by the Health ministry on its Twitter handle.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-stabilising-in-large-parts-of-country-but-positivity-still-over-10-in-382-districts-govt-101621694695140.html
22-05-2021||India||Breastfeeding should not be halted even for an hour: Centre on new vaccine rules||Amid doubts and speculations on whether lactating women have to stop breastfeeding for a day or two after getting vaccinated against Covid-19, the Centre on Saturday said that there should be no disruption in breastfeeding because of the vaccine. The Centre has recently allowed lactating mothers to take Covid-19 vaccines.Many misleading claims have been made that new mothers who take Covid-19 vaccines should not feed their newborns immediately after vaccination. The waiting period should be one to two days, according to these reports. Niti Aayog (health) member VK Paul said there has been no such advisory as there is no problem in breastfeeding after vaccination. "In no situation, breastfeeding should be halted even for an hour," he said.Pregnant and lactating women were initially excluded from the government's vaccination programme as the Covishield and Covaxin were not tried on these groups in India. Recently, the government's expert group has given a go-ahead to bring both these groups under the purview of vaccination. It said pregnant women can be given the option between the vaccines, while it is completely safe for lactating women to get vaccinated. The Centre has accepted the recommendation on lactating women and paused the one on pregnant women saying more deliberations are required before taking the final decision.Covid-19 infection does not spread from a mother to her newborn through breastmilk, doctors have already said. It can, however, transmit through the regular way of respiratory droplets. Hence, doctors have advised face masks or face shields for lactating mothers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breastfeeding-should-not-be-halted-even-for-an-hour-centre-on-new-vaccine-rules-101621693668430.html
22-05-2021||India||Congress appoints VD Satheesan as leader of opposition in Kerala||After days of uncertainty and long deliberations, the Congress on Saturday, selected senior leader VD Satheesan as the leader of opposition in Kerala. After having suffered a humiliating defeat in the recent assembly polls, the party’s strength has been reduced to 21 in the 140-member house. Satheesan (56) takes over the mantle from Ramesh Chennithala who took up many popular issues and unearthed several alleged omissions and commissions of the first Pinarayi Vijayan government. The party high command’s decision to pick Satheesan is considered a major policy shift in the faction-ridden state unit. The party has also given enough hints that state unit president Mullapally Ramachandran will also be shifted. Sensing his imminent exit, the PCC chief has expressed his desire to quit. After the poll debacle many young leaders have sought a major operation in the party to check its further slide. In the state unit two powerful groups, one led by Chennithala and the other by former CM Oommen Chandy, have always called the shots. A party team headed by senior leader Mallikarjun Kharge had met legislators last week to know their opinion. Though some of them supported Chennithala, a majority reportedly favoured a change in the party and that helped Satheesan to get the new post. “We will work as a responsible opposition and extend all support to the government in its fight against the pandemic. Fight against communal forces will top the party’s main agenda,” said the new opposition leader. Former CM Chandy, Chennithala and Mullapally Ramachandran welcomed his elevation. There are reports that Chandy is upset with the decision but he later denied it saying it was only a creation of the media. There are speculations that Chennithala will be given a key party position in Delhi. Party strongman from Kannur, K Sudhakaran, is a top contender for the PCC chief’s post. A five-time legislator from Paravur constituency in Ernakulam district-- Satheesan rose from the ranks. He started his political career when he was a student. He was the vice-president of the state unit and also served as the AICC secretary. A good debater and orator, his effective intervention in the house in crucial times was lauded. He is taking up the new position at a time when the party strength in the assembly has shrunk like never before and the party rank and file are demoralised after the crushing defeat in the recent assembly elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-appoints-vd-satheesan-as-leader-of-opposition-in-kerala-101621693978364.html
22-05-2021||India||'PMCries': Rahul blames govt for Covid impact on economy, vaccine shortage||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Saturday criticised the central government over its handling of the pandemic and took a jibe at Prime Minister Narendra Modi over the ongoing Covid-19 situation in the country.No VaccinesLowest GDPHighest Covid deaths...GOI’s response?PMCries. pic.twitter.com/b8TbfwnrlI“No Vaccines. Lowest GDP. Highest Covid deaths… GOI’s response? PMCries,” Rahul Gandhi tweeted. The parliamentarian from Wayanad tweeted a chart shared by the former chief economist of the World Bank, Kaushik Basu, which showed figures of India’s annual GDP growth and Covid-19 deaths per million population on May 21.Sharing the chart, Kaushik Basu tweeted it was baffling to see India at the bottom of the chart on both counts. “Latest data on health & economy, Asia. May 21. It is baffling to find India at the virtual bottom of the chart, given that it's one of the world's biggest vaccine producers & till 6 years ago it was one of the world's fastest growing economies,” Basu wrote.Latest data on health & economy, Asia. May 21.It's baffling to find India at the virtual bottom of the chart, given that it's one of the world's biggest vaccine producers & till 6 years ago it was one of the world's fastest growing economies. pic.twitter.com/ViGC4Tn5t9The chart showed that India’s annual GDP growth in the year 2020 was -8.0% and also showed that as of May 21, the nation has recorded 212 deaths per million people. India’s GDP is likely to suffer a GDP contraction of 7.96%, according to a report by HT.Rahul Gandhi has been critical of the government’s handling of the pandemic and in this tweet he took a jibe at Prime Minister’s recent address to Covid-19 frontline workers in his constituency in Varanasi where he became emotional while speaking of the deaths.मोदी सिस्टम के कुशासन के चलते सिर्फ़ भारत में कोरोना के साथ-साथ ब्लैक फ़ंगस महामारी है। वैक्सीन की कमी तो है ही, इस नयी महामारी की दवा की भी भारी कमी है।इससे जूझने के लिए PM ताली-थाली बजाने की घोषणा करते ही होंगे।Earlier in the day, Rahul Gandhi also blamed the government for its handling of the mucormycosis outbreak. He said that he is expecting PM Modi to ask people to ‘clap their hands or bang their utensils’ to cope with the issue. “Due to the mismanagement of the Modi system, there is now a black fungus epidemic in India along with Covid-19. Not only is there a shortage of vaccines, there is also a huge shortage of the drug required to treat this disease. In order to cope with this, the Prime Minister must announce to clap or bang the thali," he wrote.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pmcries-rahul-blames-govt-for-covid-impact-on-economy-vaccine-shortage-101621693140958.html
22-05-2021||India||Covid-19: Triple lockdown to continue in Kerala’s Malappuram, CM Vijayan warns of 'strict action' against violators||Kerala’s chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Saturday said that the triple lockdown will continue in the Malappuram district, where the test positivity rate is higher. He also said that the restrictions in the area would be tightened and warned of “strict action” against the violators.“Triple lockdown will continue in Malappuram district. Restrictions will be tightened as test positivity rate is high. We will conduct tests among 75,000 people on Monday and Tuesday. More police force will be deployed, directed them to take strict action against violators,” news agency ANI quoted Vijayan as saying.Also read | India’s Covid-19 active caseload at over 2.9 million; 8 states contribute 69% to national tallyEarlier on Friday (May 21), the chief minister said that the Covid-19 lockdown in Kerala has been extended till May 30. However, he also mentioned that the triple lockdown would be lifted in three districts, namely, Thiruvananthapuram, Ernakulam and Thrissur and it would continue in Malappuram district. Initially, the triple lockdown was imposed in all four districts, as per the state government order on May 14.Briefing on the Covid-19 situation in his state, Vijayan said, “28,514 new Covid-19 cases, 45,400 recoveries and 176 deaths reported in Kerala today. Total 2,025,319 recoveries and 7,170 deaths in the state so far. Active cases [at] 289,283,” news agency ANI reported.Watch | Drones used for sanitising public places in Kerala’s ThrissurIn the seven-day period between May 16 and 23, when the triple lockdown was in effect, the active caseload decreased in the four districts. However, Malappuram witnessed the least fall, data from the state health department’s daily bulletin showed. On May 14, Thiruvananthapuram had 44,934 active cases which came down to 20,695. Meanwhile, Thrissur’s active caseload currently stands at 22,088 from 56,194, previously reported on May 14, the highest fall among the four districts. Ernakulam witnessed its active cases shrink from 69,180 on May 14 to 45,395 on Saturday. But Malappuram currently has 47,595 active cases, a marginal reduction from the 50,778 reported on May 14.Kerala was only behind Karnataka and Maharashtra in terms of the total confirmed cases as well as active cases, according to data from the Union health ministry on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-triple-lockdown-to-continue-in-kerala-s-malappuram-chief-minister-pinarayi-vijayan-warns-of-strict-action-against-violators-101621692348008.html
22-05-2021||India||65 NDRF teams deployed as Yaas likely to become 'very severe cyclonic storm'||Odisha and all its adjoining coastal districts have been put on high alert in view of the cyclonic storm 'Yaas' in the Bay of Bengal. The National Crisis Management Committee (NCMC) on Saturday reviewed preparedness for the next cyclonic storm scheduled to hit India on May 26.The cyclone is expected to reach West Bengal and northern parts of Odisha in the evening of May 26, with wind speeds of 155-165 km per hour, accompanied by heavy rainfall and storm surges in coastal districts of the states.Also read: Mixing different Covid-19 vaccines theoretically possible, says CentreHere are the preparatory measures made against the cyclonic storm, as per the chief secretaries of the concerned states:Arrangements of an adequate stick of foodgrains, drinking water and other essential supplies have been made along with preparations to maintain essential services like power, telecommunications etc.People are being evacuated from the low lying areas.Rescue and relief teams of army, navy and coast guards with ships and aircraft have been deployed.National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) has made available 65 teams, while 20 additional teams are on standby.Arrangements are also being made to ensure uninterrupted operations of hospitals and Covid Care Centres and to ensure the productions and supply of oxygen to Covid facilities across the country.Also read| Cyclone Yaas: West Bengal fishermen advised not to venture into sea from May 23The review meeting happened under the chairmanship of cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba, who laid stress on all measures to be taken in a timely manner to minimize loss of life and destruction of property.The Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted that the cyclonic storm will intensify into 'very severe cyclonic storm' and will move north-northwestwards, cross West Bengal, district of Odisha and Bangaldesh coast on May 26 evening."Low-pressure area has formed over the east-central Bay of Bengal today morning. To intensify into a cyclonic storm by May 24. To intensify further into Very Severe Cyclonic Storm, move north-northwestwards and cross West Bengal and adjoining north Odisha and Bangladesh coasts around 26th evening," the department said in a tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/65-ndrf-teams-deployed-as-yaas-likely-to-become-very-severe-cyclonic-storm-101621690044396.html
22-05-2021||India||Himachal Pradesh CM distributes home isolation kits, says pandemic nothing less than war||Himachal Pradesh Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur on Saturday flagged off 11 vehicles containing home isolation kits for Covid-19 patients under home isolation.Calling the pandemic outbreak “nothing less than a war”, he urged the people to strictly adhere to Covid-19 protocol like wearing masks and maintaining social distancing.The home isolation kits contain 'chawan prash', 'kaada', protective masks, hand sanitisers, medicines, CM's message, among others.Around 90 per cent of over 31,000 active cases in the state are in home isolation.The chief minister also launched 'Himachal COVID Care' mobile application for helping in the speedy recovery of patients in home isolation.A 'Sanjeevani Specialist OPD' mobile application was also introduced wherein as many as 70 specialists of AIIMS Bilaspur will provide advice to state residents through tele-medicine service.Speaking on the occasion, Thakur expressed his gratitude to Radha Soami Satsang Beas (RSSB) management for making their complexes available for treating Covid-19 patients not only in the state but the entire country.He said a 200-bedded dedicated Covid centre has recently been made functional in Mandi. More such centres are being set up in Kangra, Solan and other districts in the Radha Soami Satsang complexes, he said.Another campaign will be launched on the lines of the Active Case Finding (ACF) programme for identifying Covid-19 patients among MLAs, councillors and panchayat representatives, the CM added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/himachal-pradesh-chief-minister-distributes-home-isolation-kits-says-pandemic-nothing-less-than-war-101621688328136.html
22-05-2021||India||‘Stop irrational steroid use in Covid treatment’: Govt on mucormycosis||The health ministry on Saturday during its daily coronavirus disease (Covid-19) press briefing highlighted that cases of mucormycosis can be prevented if the irrational use of steroids is stopped.“We have to fight mucormycosis. The disease has now taken the shape of an outbreak as it is affecting Covid-19 patients. The role of steroids in mucormycosis cannot be denied. Administration of steroids beforehand, administering steroids in high doses and giving steroids for a prolonged period is irrational,” Niti Aayog (health) member VK Paul said.Paul also highlighted that steroids help in avoiding complications that arise due to Covid-19 and it is a ‘wonder drug’ but inappropriate doses invite the risk of mucormycosis in people.“Covid-19 also affects diabetics and there could be additional reasons as well for mucormycosis. States have already announced measures to contain the disease and several states have declared it an epidemic. All steps are being taken to control the disease,” Paul further added.Lav Agarwal, joint secretary of the health ministry, also said that the government has asked five firms to ramp up production of Amphotericin-B, a drug necessary for the treatment of Covid-19. He also said that the government has given license to five additional manufacturers to start the production of the drug.VK Paul also said that mucormycosis existed before the Covid-19 pandemic but it was a rare disease.Mucormycosis is an infection caused by a fungus called mucormycetes which can enter the body through breathing or skin injuries, and has been widely reported in Covid-19 patients. The immune system can generally ward off the fungus but irrational usage of steroids during Covid-19 treatment, uncontrolled blood sugar put immunocompromised people at a higher risk of contracting the disease. India has reported at least 7,200 cases of mucormycosis and states are scrambling to acquire the drug which is vital to save patients from dying due to the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stop-irrational-steroid-use-in-covid-treatment-govt-on-mucormycosis-101621687888727.html
22-05-2021||India||Mixing different Covid-19 vaccines theoretically possible, says Centre||It is scientifically possible that an individual gets the first dose of one vaccine and the second dose of another vaccine, but it will take time to decide whether it can be recommended, the Centre has said. A recent UK study has found that it is safe to mix doses of different types of vaccines, but there will be many side effects, the study has revealed."It is plausible. But there need to be more studies. It can't be said definitively that mixing of doses can be practised. There is no robust scientific evidence. Only time will tell whether it will be done in future or not, It will depend on international studies, World Health Organization findings etc. Our experts are also continuously studying," Niti Aayog (health) member VK Paul said on Saturday."One shot of one type produces antibodies and the second shot from another will increase that. Scientifically, there is no problem," he added.Watch: Is it possible to get 2nd dose of different vaccine? NITI Aayog answersCovishield and Covaxin are the two vaccines being administered in the country. Both the vaccines consist of two doses, the second dose of which is known as the booster dose. In its several advisories, the health ministry has repetitively cautioned that the second dose of the same vaccine should be taken.The study which says mixing two doses is safe was conducted over around 2,000 volunteers and in the mix and match approach, they were given one Oxford vaccine shot and another Pfizer; another combination of Moderna and Novavax was also tried.The trial was not aimed at finding out whether a combination of two different doses is effective in preventive Covid or not. Only the immune response of the volunteers was tested and the adverse reactions were short-lived.There has been no such study yet in India mixing Covaxin and Covishield. According to the latest findings, the first dose of these two vaccines has different effectiveness. Covishield's first dose offers more protection than Covaxin's first dose and hence the second dose of Covishield can be delayed to 12 to 16 weeks, the Centre has recently said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/can-covishield-and-covaxin-be-mixed-what-vk-paul-says-101621687347736.html
22-05-2021||India||UP govt to vaccinate parents of children below 10 years before third wave of Covid-19||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday said preparations are underway to vaccinate parents of all children below 10 years of age against coronavirus disease (Covid-19) before the third wave of the pandemic, reported ANI."Before the third wave of corona arrives, we are making arrangements to provide protection to the parents of all children under 10 years of age by giving them vaccine doses," ANI quoted Adityanath as saying.Also read: 'Children can get and spread Covid infection,' Centre clarifies 3 pointsEmphasising the aim of the state government to pace up the vaccination process in June, Adityanath also said immunisation of judicial officers, staffers and their families are underway at Lucknow bench of High Court and Allahabad High Court. For media professionals too, he said, the state government has started the vaccination programme in this phase when the government began vaccination for the age group of 18-44 years on May 1. Vaccination for media personnel has also started at Noida and Lucknow, he added, saying that the next step is to create separate centres for judicial officers and media personnel in every district.The chief minister during a press conference in Kanpur said he has instructed all the officials to reconstruct, renovate, provide all modern types of equipment and restart a municipal corporation hospital for children, which has been closed for past years.Every medical college should prepare for 100-ICU pediatric beds, 100 bed for (Neonatal Intensive Care Unit) NICU with oxygen, 20-25 NICU bed in district hospitals and some CSC (Common Service Centre) in rural regions have also been directed to start preparing for the third wave. The chief minister said that the government's aim is to prepare for the third wave while battling the second wave.The chief minister also said that the state government aims to control the second wave of the pandemic within May 30 and urged the citizens to adhere to Covid-appropriate behaviour in order to achieve that target.For the vaccination of disabled, senior citizens, women and farmers, the government will set up centres, the chief minister said.Also read: UP govt announces reward for making villages, wards Covid-free with new campaignHe also said that patients in government hospitals or hospitals taken over by the government are being provided free treatment and food. Community kitchens have also been started in districts so that every person from rickshaw pullers to street vendors, relatives of patients can get meals twice daily, the chief minister said on a visit to Etawah.He spoke about the decline in the number of daily Covid-19 cases in the state. The active cases in the state have declined from more than 300,000 to 94,000 in the last 20 days. The positivity rate of the state currently stands at 2.4 per cent, the chief minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-govt-to-vaccinate-parents-of-children-below-10-years-before-third-wave-of-covid-19-101621683412693.html
22-05-2021||India||News updates from HT: Govt creates pool of trained drivers for medical oxygen transport and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Centre asks states to create pool of trained drivers for transporting liquid oxygenThe transport ministry on Saturday said there is an urgent need to make available a large pool of trained drivers who can supplement or replace the existing drivers. Read more here. 'Enough is enough': IMA demands prosecution of Ramdev under Epidemics Act"Enough is enough," IMA said slamming Ramdev for what it called “repeatedly taking advantage of the situation and creating fear among the public to sell his illegal drugs.” Read more here. 'If he doesn't get a 100, we think he hasn't scored at all': Butt discusses Virat Kohli's 'mental barrier in ICC events'Former Pakistan batsman Salman Butt feels what Virat Kohli has achieved in his professional cricket career is phenomenal and backs the India captain to soon end his century drought. Read more here.Birthday girl Suhana Khan is the face of Gen-Z fashion, proof in stunning picsSuhana Khan turned 21 today and in order to celebrate her, we are taking a trip down memory lane and checking out some of her most stunning sartorial moments. Read more here. Vikram Bhatt on Alia Bhatt being trolled for Gangubai Kathiawadi teaser: ‘Skin of an entertainer should be thick’Vikram Bhatt reacted to Alia Bhatt being criticised for the timing of the release of the Gangubai Kathiawadi teaser. He said that the ‘skin of an entertainer should be thick’. Read more here. Pigs, garbage, water-logging: Hospital in Bihar in shocking state amid Covid﻿Severe water-logging, stray animals like pigs, and accumulation of garbage are some of the ills plaguing the hospital on which people of areas like Saharsa, Samastipur, and Madhubani are reportedly dependent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-govt-creates-pool-of-trained-driver-for-medical-oxygen-101621681943544.html
22-05-2021||India||Congress insulted nation by referring to Covid-19 variant as Indian: Javadekar||Union Information and Broadcasting Minister Prakash Javadekar on Saturday accused the Congress party of “insulting the nation” by referring to the B.1.617 variant of the Coronavirus as the Indian variant and said the opposition party has not only been stoking fear and apprehension, but also weakening the fight against the pandemic. Addressing the media, Javadekar said Congress president Sonia Gandhi should explain why her party is engaging in negative politics and why she has not criticised her party colleague and former Madhya Pradesh chief minister, Kamal Nath’s statement on the variant being Indian. “He called it the Indian Corona. And said Hamari Pechaan, Mera Bharat Covid. This is an insult to India. Many other Congress leaders have also done so. The WHO has already clarified that no country’s name has been attributed to any variant,” Javadekar said.Kamal Nath while attacking the government for its response to the second wave of Covid-19 had referred to the B.1.167 variant as the Indian variant. On the letter Gandhi has written to Prime Minister Modi on the procurement of drugs for patients of black fungus, the minister said the government has already taken proactive steps to procure the necessary medicines for the over 9000 patients across the country. In her letter to the PM, the Congress chief said there is an acute shortage of vital drug Amphotericin-B that is required to treat Mucormycosis or black fungus. She also said that the since the black fungus infection is not covered under the Ayushmann Bharat that offers free health insurance to the poor, the government should provide relief to a large number of patients who cannot afford the treatment.Javadekar, however, said the opposition has not played a constructive role and instead created doubts about the vaccines. “When Covaxin was developed after research in the country they called it the BJP vaccine; now when the vaccine has proved effective, they are spreading doubts and fears that there will be a travel ban because it is not on the list of vaccines that are globally recognised... As far as I know WHO has not taken any such decision, but the Congress’s statements show the party is insulting the country and weakening the fight against the pandemic,” the minister said.On the Delhi government’s demand for more vaccines for the state, Javadekar said the Union government is making all efforts to undertake distribution of vaccines to all states. “The 50 lakh vaccines that have been provided to Delhi so far were provided by the Union government. It is the Union government that has provided the 20 crore plus vaccines in the country and in future also it will continue to do so,” he said.Javadekar said Health Minister Harsh Vardhan has already explained how the government plans to meet the demand for vaccines to inoculate all by the end of December. Criticising Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, the minister said earlier he complained about oxygen shortage and then said there is sufficient supply. “He has to stop making excuses,” Javadekar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-insulted-nation-by-referring-to-covid-19-variant-as-indian-javadekar-101621682218060.html
22-05-2021||India||Children can get and spread Covid infection': Centre clarifies 3 points amid 3rd wave concerns||Amid concerns over a probable third wave of the Coronavirus pandemic, the Centre on Saturday said children are not immune from the infection, but the impact is minimal. "If children get affected by Covid, either there will be no symptoms or there will be minimal symptoms. They do not require hospitalisation generally," Niti Aayog (health) member VK Paul said on Saturday, during the press briefing of the Union health ministry.Explaining three points about Covid-19 infection among children, Dr Paul said that children are not immune from this infection and they can infect others but children do not generally suffer from severe infection. Health infrastructure should be ramped up to treat Covid-19 among children, but it is most important to not let them become a part of the transmission chain in the first place, Dr Paul said. "Some facts are clear in front of us. Children can be infected and they can be infected to quite an extent. It can't be said with certainty that the infection among children is comparatively less. For example, the December-January serosurvey revealed that the seropositivity rate among children and older is almost the same," Dr Paul said.Fauci expects Covid-19 vaccines for children by late-2021 or early 2022Children account for about 3-4 per cent of hospital admission, in both India and the rest of the world, he said adding special attention should be on those between the age of 10 and 12 years as they are very mobile. As the ongoing second wave of the pandemic is gradually coming under control with a steady fall in the number of daily positive cases and in the positivity rate, concerns over a third wave have been expressed by experts, state governments. It has also been apprehended that this possible third wave may impact children.Prime Minister Narendra Modi, in a recent meeting with state and district officials, has asked them to collect data on the infection transmission and severity among youth and children. Earlier, the Maharashtra government said it started preparing for the third wave of the pandemic and started setting up paediatric Covid wards for children. Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal too said children could be at an increased risk of contracting this infection.In the first wave of the pandemic, people above the age of 45 were considered to be the most vulnerable to the infection. In the ongoing second wave, many young people contracted the infection, but according to medical data, there has not been any significant shift in age group and people aged between 45 and 60 years are still the most vulnerable, the health ministry has said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/children-can-get-and-spread-covid-but-centre-amid-3rd-wave-concerns-101621681163932.html
22-05-2021||India||Govt asks social platforms to take down ‘Indian Covid variant’ posts||The Union ministry of electronics and information technology has written to all social media platforms to remove content that “names, refers to, or implies that there is an ‘Indian variant’ of Covid-19,” HT has learnt.“It has come to our knowledge that a false statement is being circulated online which implies that an ‘Indian variant’ of coronavirus is spreading across the countries. This is completely FALSE. There is no such variant of Covid-19 scientifically cited as such by the World Health Organisation (WHO). WHO has not associated the term “Indian Variant” with the B.1.617 variant of the coronavirus in any of its reports,” the ministry wrote in the letter.According to the communication sent by the ministry, the Union ministry of health, on May 12, clarified that there is no Indian variant of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) as the World Health Organization does not name any variant after the country where it has been first reported from.A senior Indian government source told Reuters the notice was issued to send a message “loud and clear” that such mentions of “Indian variant” spread miscommunication and hurt the country’s image.This comes as India, on Friday, continued to report a dip in its confirmed coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases while associated fatalities remained below record levels in the last 24 hours. As per the health bulletin released by the Union ministry of health and family welfare, 257,299 tested positive for Covid-19 in the past 24 hours across the country while 4,194 patients succumbed to the deadly virus. While the country’s cumulative Covid-19 death toll stands at 2,95,525, the total number of cases is at a whopping 26,289,290 till date.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-asks-social-platforms-to-take-down-indian-covid-variant-posts-101621679577922.html
22-05-2021||India||'Enough is enough': IMA demands prosecution of Ramdev under Epidemics Act||Indian Medical Association (IMA) on Saturday lashed out at Yoga guru Ramdev for his remarks on allopathy and demanded the Union health minister Harsh Vardhan to prosecute him under Epidemic Diseases Act 1897 or accept his accusations and dissolve the modern medical facility."Enough is enough," IMA said slamming Ramdev for what it called “repeatedly taking advantage of the situation and creating fear among the public to sell his illegal drugs.”Also read| 6 feet or 10 metres: What experts say about safe distance to keep Covid at bay"When such idolised personal are making vitriolic comments, questioning the authority and integrity of the whole architecture of health ministry, the health minister, who himself is a practicing modern medicine allopathic postgraduate and the head of this ministry, should either accept the challenge and accusation of this gentleman and dissolve the modern medicine facility or boldly face and prosecute the person for his words of arson on the sovereignty of the country and book him under the Epidemic Diseases Act to save millions of people from such unscientific utterances," IMA wrote to the health minister.The apex medical body hits out at Ramdev over a video circulating in social media, in which he said, 'Allopathy ek aisi stupid aur diwaliya science hai'. The IMA also said that he has called modern medical doctors “murderers” in the presence of the health minister while releasing his medicines.IMA accused Ramdev of making false claims against modern medicine to sell illegal and unapproved drugs. It said that he even challenged the integrity of DCGI, the head of which is the health minister himself, as he claimed that Remdesivir, Favipiravir and all other approved drugs by DCGI have failed. 'Lakho logo ki maut allopathy ki dawa khane se hui hai', Ramdev said, as per the IMA."Remdesivir and Favipiravir are approved by CDSCO (Central Drug Standard Control Organisation) and were notified for use for the covid patient by the Central Government in June-July, 2020. The said Notification was made by the Centre under section 2A of the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897. Therefore, u/s 3 of the Epidemic Disease Act read with Section 188 of IPC, Swami Ramdev deserves to be prosecuted for disobeying and causing danger to the life of many by making them believe and make them not to take the advice of allopathy drugs," IMA said.Also read| 269 doctors died of Covid-19 in second wave: IMAIMA also cited the earlier controversies around Ramdev's Coronil and Swasari medicine and the criminal complaint against him by social worker Tamanna Hashmi for putting the lives of people in danger to prove the irresponsibility of the internationally known pharmaceutical owner."However, it is a well-known fact that the Yoga guru and his associate Shri Balkrishna have been taking modern medical allopathy treatment as and when they contract illness," the IMA said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/enough-is-enough-ima-demands-prosecution-of-ramdev-under-epidemics-act-101621673699310.html
22-05-2021||India||Meerut twins lose Covid-19 battle just days after their 24th birthday||As several people have lost their loved ones amid the second wave of coronavirus, a family in Meerut has lost twin sons post Covid-19 complications.The duo turned 24 a day before they were tested positive for the virus.Born three minutes apart on April 23, 1997 to Gregory Raymond and Soja Raphael, both employed as school teachers in Meerut, identical twins Joefred and Ralphred Gregory breathed their last on Thursday and Friday respectively in a city hospital.According to their parents, the twins who were engineers celebrated their 24th birthday this April and both contracted Covid-19 a day later. Their father Gregory said that both his sons were isolated at home after testing positive for the virus.He added, "Amid increasing cases of corona in Meerut, our area was among the containment zones. For this reason, I was treating them at home. I thought that their fever would subside, but it did not happen. They died on May 13 and 14 due to Covid-19. When the oxygen levels of both the sons started dropping below 90, the doctors advised us to admit them to a hospital."Gregory said that he admitted his sons to a private city hospital on May 1.The parents stated that the first corona report of their sons came positive, but after a few days their second RT-PCR report had come negative.They further said that the doctors were planning to shift the duo from the corona ward to the ICU.Gregory said that on April 13, he came to know that his son Joffred had died of post Covid complications, after which he had decided to move Ralphred to a hospital in Dehi but he too died the next day on May 14.The shattered parents said the death of their sons has left a void in their lives forever.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/meerut-twins-lose-covid-19-battle-just-days-after-their-24th-birthday-101621677818451.html
22-05-2021||India||Tamil Nadu extends Covid-19 lockdown by a week from May 24||Tamil Nadu on Saturday extended the Covid-19 lockdown by a week from May 24 without any relaxations.Earlier, the lockdown had commenced on May 10 to help prevent the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and it was supposed to end on May 24.Citing the view of medical experts that the coronavirus spread is likely to peak soon in Tamil Nadu, chief minister MK Stalin had earlier said that everyone must follow the Covid-19 related guidelines."There were views that a third wave of the virus was also probable and we have to be ready to tackle it also. The day when no one was infected with the virus would really be a day of joy and only then would he be happy," Stalin said.Stalin also said that the pace of the coronavirus spread has been slowed down and the number of fresh infections has been controlled."This was due to the lockdown and many measures aimed at preventing the spread of Covid-19, he added.Tamil Nadu on Friday reported 36,184 new Covid-19 cases. The state has 2,74,629 active cases and 19,598 people have succumbed to the infection till date. The number of deaths stood at 467.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-extends-covid-19-lockdown-by-a-week-from-may-24-101621675695393.html
22-05-2021||India||6 feet or 10 metres: What experts say about safe distance to keep Covid at bay||The recent Covid-19 guideline issued by the principal scientific adviser to the government has said that aerosols from a Covid-19 infected person can travel in the air up to 10 metres, which is around 32 feet, while in its earlier guidelines, the health ministry has advised maintaining 'do gaj ki duri', which is around six feet. So, do people need to keep a distance of 10 metres now? Dr Ved Chaturvedi (Lt General) of Delhi's Gangaram Hospital is of the opinion that a distance of 10 metres is advisable but most of the Covid-19 infections spread through droplets in the vicinity, and not through aerosols which are found to travel up to 10 metres."The finding that the virus can travel up to 10 metres has also been supported by The Lancet. But maintaining 'do gaj ki duri' is crucial as most cases are found in the close proximity of an infected person through droplets which spread when a person is speaking. But many people have said that they have not gone outside and not come in close contact with anyone, but still got the infection. So, the virus can remain suspended in the air and can infect another. If an infected person coughs, sings, laughs, talks loudly, infected aerosols can move in the direction of the wind," Dr Chaturvedi said in an interview with All India Radio.But as maintaining a distance of 10 metres may not be possible, good ventilation can come to help, Indian Council of Medical Research chief Dr Balram Bhargava has said. "First, it was found that the virus transmits through droplets. Now it has been found that there are microdroplets that can remain suspended in the air for at least 2-3 hours. Some studies have pointed out that microdroplets can remain in the air for 3 hours. For droplets, we recommend a distance of six feet. For micro-droplets, we recommend good ventilation so that these can be dispersed," Dr Bhargava has recently said.However, wearing masks as advised can provide protection at any distance, experts have said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/6-feet-or-10-metres-what-experts-say-about-safe-distance-to-keep-covid-at-bay-101621677580166.html
22-05-2021||India||Covid-19: Here’s a list of organisations helping India cope with the pandemic||As India reels under the second wave of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, some organisations based out of the country are stepping up to help people find the supplies they need like medicines and oxygen and are even running donation campaigns for the same. The most common platform these organisations are using to reach out to the maximum number of people is their social media accounts, especially Twitter accounts. Click here for full Covid-19 coverageHere are some organisations involved in Covid-19 relief work:Milaap: This Bengaluru-based fundraising organisation has over 21,400 followers on Twitter. It posts about people in need of money for treatment or procurement of medical facilities, including those with Covid-19.GiveIndia: This is a non profit organisation also based out of Bengaluru. This too, is a donation platform with over 578,000 followers on Twitter.Uday Foundation: Uday Foundation is also a health and humanitarian assistance and relief foundation that shares SOS messages and verified leads on where to find Covid-19 resources with its over 746,800 followers on Twitter. It is based out of New Delhi.Oxfam India: A non-profit organisation that is known for its work in the field of child education, empowering women and fighting against inequality in India, Oxfam India has also devoted itself to the fight against Covid-19. It has over 269,400 followers on Twitter and is based out of New Delhi.Rapid Response: This organisation, also based out of New Delhi, is a disaster relief NGO which works for Covid-19 relief as well. It has set up a relief fund to help the community, especially the marginalised, cope with the medical supply and treatment cost. The organisation has over 14,400 followers on Twitter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-here-s-a-list-of-organisations-helping-india-cope-with-the-pandemic-101621666943535.html
22-05-2021||India||Indians vaccinated with Covaxin may not be allowed to travel abroad just yet||People who have been fully vaccinated by both doses of Covaxin might not be allowed to travel internationally as the vaccine produced by Bharat Biotech has not been included in World Health Organization’s (WHO) Emergency Use Listing (EUL) so far, according to a report by LiveHindustan.Several nations in Europe are reopening in a bid to boost their travel and tourism industries and are likely to make regulations for entry of travellers based on recommendations of their respective health departments or are likely to allow people vaccinated with the shots manufactured by companies which are on WHO’s EUL list.India’s other vaccine - Covishield - manufactured by Pune-based Serum Institute of India is on WHO’s EUL. WHO listed the Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine for emergency use on December 31 last year; two AstraZeneca/Oxford Covid-19 vaccines on February 15, produced by AstraZeneca-SKBio (Republic of Korea) and the Serum Institute of India; and the Covid-19 vaccine Ad26.COV2.S developed by Janssen (Johnson & Johnson) on March 12. The UN body has also granted approval to Moderna’s Covid-19 vaccine and included China’s Sinopharm COVID-19 vaccine in its EUL.The two other vaccines used in India’s Covid-19 vaccine drive - Sputnik-V, developed by Russia’s Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) and the Gamaleya Research Institute of Epidemiology and Microbiology and Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin are not yet approved by the UN health body. The European Union (EU), United Kingdom and Canada also have not included Covaxin in their approved list of vaccines. The WHO has not made any announcement so far regarding the inclusion of Covaxin in its EUL.Covaxin, according to WHO’s Guideline Document on “Status of Covid-19 Vaccines within WHO EUL/PQ evaluation process”, will be reviewed during a meeting which will be held between the months of May and June 2021. The document also showed that the Hyderabad-based pharmaceutical company has submitted its expression of interest on April 19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indians-vaccinated-with-covaxin-may-not-be-allowed-to-travel-abroad-just-yet-101621676370507.html
22-05-2021||India||Centre asks states to create pool of trained drivers for transporting liquid oxygen||The Union ministry of road transport and highways has asked states and Union territories to create a pool of drivers trained especially to transport ‘hazardous cargo’ amid an increase in transportation and supply of liquid medical oxygen during the second Covid 19 wave, as per the statement by the ministry.“During the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, a major focus has been on quick and smooth transportation of Liquid Oxygen (LOX) to various parts of the country. In this regard, it has been brought out by the Ministry of Road Transport & Highways that as per extant rules and in consonance with the CMVR, 1989, ONLY trained drivers with adequate training and having ‘hazardous cargo’ license are allowed to operate the Liquid Oxygen (LOX) trucks,” the ministry said in a statement on Saturday.The transport ministry on Saturday said there is an urgent need to make available a large pool of trained drivers who can supplement or replace the existing drivers, keeping in mind daily operations round the clock.The transport ministry has advised states and Union territories to create a pool of trained drivers and 500 such trained drivers are to be made available immediately and the number of drivers to be increased to 2,500 in the next two months.“Also, as a part of a strategy which may be adopted to create an additional pool, the following have been suggested:-Quickly skill drivers with training in handling hazardous chemicals and LMO handling through a short program and apprenticeship,Skill HMV license holders in hazardous chemicals and LMO handling through short (3/4 days) program and apprenticeship.Such training modules have been designed with the help of the Logistics Sector Skill Council (LSSC), Indian Chemical Council (ICC), National Skill Development Corporation (NSDC) & medical oxygen manufacturers,” it added.States and UTs have been requested by the Centre to recommend some local drivers with a heavy motor vehicle (HMV)/hazardous chemical license to opt for these training programs, it said.“Also, a list of all the skilled drivers would be made available on a digital platform and the services of these trained drivers could be utilized for carrying cryogenic LMO tankers. It has also been advised that LOX tanker drivers may be facilitated with a special Covid vaccination drive and priority in admission and treatment in hospitals, in case they are found Covid infected,” the statement added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-asks-states-to-create-pool-of-trained-drivers-for-transporting-liquid-oxygen-101621675917218.html
22-05-2021||India||Cyclone Yaas likely to intensify into very severe cyclonic storm: IMD||Cyclone Yaas is likely to intensify into a “very severe cyclonic storm” and cross the Odisha and the West Bengal coasts on May 26, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Saturday.A low pressure area formed over the east-central Bay of Bengal and the adjoining north Andaman Sea on Saturday.While a low pressure area is the first stage of formation of a cyclone, it is not necessary that all low pressure areas will intensify into cyclonic storms."The low pressure area is very likely to concentrate into a depression over eastcentral Bay of Bengal by tomorrow, the 23rd May morning. It is very likely to move north-northwestwards, intensify into a Cyclonic Storm by 24th May and further into a very severe cyclonic storm during the subsequent 24 hours," the IMD said.It would continue to move north-northwestwards, intensify further and reach north Bay of Bengal near West Bengal and the adjoining north Odisha and Bangladesh coasts by the morning of May 26, it said.“It is very likely to cross West Bengal and the adjoining north Odisha and Bangladesh coasts around the evening of 26th May,” the IMD added.Last week, extremely severe cyclone Tauktae hit the Gujarat coast and left a trail of destruction all over the western coast.As it weakened further, its impact was felt across the north Indian plains and even in the hill states of Uttarakhand and Himachal Pradesh.The April-May and the October-December periods are also known to witness cyclones.Last May saw the formation of two cyclones – one in the Bay of Bengal (super cyclonic storm Amphan) and the other in the Arabian Sea (severe cyclonic storm Nisarga) – that hit the Indian coasts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-yaas-likely-to-intensify-into-very-severe-cyclonic-storm-imd-101621673925243.html
22-05-2021||India||India’s Covid-19 active caseload at over 2.9 million; 8 states contribute 69% to national tally||Active caseload of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in India has been witnessing a declining trend in the past few days and went below the three-million mark, according to the latest data from the centre on Saturday.The Union ministry of health and family welfare said as of Saturday, India had 2,923,400 active cases of the infection. This constitutes 11.12% of the total confirmed cases in India and is a fall of 104,525 cases from the 3,027,925 reported previously on Friday. The ministry also noted that eight states accounted for nearly 70% of the national tally.With 514,259 active cases, Karnataka contributed the highest followed by Maharashtra with 369,673 cases and Kerala with 306,719 cases. Karnataka also was the second highest contributor to the number of daily news cases detected in India after the state reported 32,218 new Covid-19 infections in the last 24 hours, data from the ministry showed. Only Tamil Nadu, with 36,184 cases, identified more new cases than Karnataka in the same time period.Also read | Black fungus: Govt allocates 23,680 additional vials of Amphotericin-B to statesHowever, the top three contributors -- Karnataka, Maharashtra and Kerala -- all witnessed a decline in their respective active caseload since Friday, the ministry also highlighted. In Karnataka, active cases fell by a significant 20,716 cases, the highest in the last 24 hours. While Maharashtra witnessed a reduction of 16,112 cases, Kerala’s count shrunk by 11,501 cases, according to the ministry’s data. Meanwhile, Tamil Nadu’s active cases count increased by 11,239 cases, the highest among all states on Friday.Tamil Nadu (274,629 cases), Andhra Pradesh (209,156 cases), West Bengal (132,181 cases), Rajasthan (131,806 cases) and Uttar Pradesh (106,276 cases) are among the states that added the highest to the national tally of active cases, along with the top three.Many states have also been witnessing a drop in their daily new cases as the country reported 257,299 infections in the previous 24 hours. However, more than 4,000 patients succumbed to their illness in the same time period for the second consecutive day as the death toll inched closer to 300,000-mark (295,525 to be exact).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-covid-19-active-caseload-at-over-2-9-million-8-states-contribute-69-to-national-tally-101621672652757.html
22-05-2021||India||Over 16 million Covid-19 vaccine doses available with states, UTs: Centre||More than 1.60 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses are still available with states and union territories, and over 2.67 lakh doses will be supplied to them in the next three day, the Union health ministry said on Saturday.In a statement, the ministry said more than 21 crore vaccine doses have been provided to states and union territories (UTs)."Of this, the total consumption, calculated based on average up to May 21, 2021, including wastage, is 19,73,61,311 doses (as per data available at 8 am today)," it said."More than 1.60 crore COVID vaccine doses (1,60,13,409) are still available with the states/UTs to be administered," the statement said.It said that 2,67,110 vaccine doses "are in the pipeline and will be received by the states/UTs within the next three days".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-16-million-covid-19-vaccine-doses-available-with-states-uts-centre-101621665308295.html
22-05-2021||India||Cyclone Yaas: West Bengal fishermen advised not to venture into sea from May 23||In view of the cyclonic storm Yaas, which is likely to form in the Bay of Bengal, the head of Regional Meteorological Centre (RMC) in Kolkata Dr Sanjib Bandyopadhyay advised the fishermen of West Bengal not to venture into the sea from May 23 evening, and advised those who are in the deep sea to return to the coast by May 23 morning.Bandyopadhyay said that a low-pressure area is very likely to form over North Andaman Sea and adjoining East Central Bay of Bengal around May 22 and is very likely to intensify gradually into a cyclonic storm by May 24."It would move northwestwards and reach near Odisha-West Bengal coasts around May 26 morning," the chief of RMC Kolkata said.Dr Bandyopadhyay informed that the coastal districts of West Bengal will be witnessing light to moderate rainfall at most places with heavy falls at isolated places from May 25 with a significant increase in intensity."We have issued a warning for the fishermen of West Bengal. They are advised not to venture into the sea from May 23, till further information. Those who are in the deep sea are advised to return to the coast by May 23 morning," he added.The IMD had earlier predicted that the cyclonic storm Yaas will hit the coasts of Odisha and West Bengal on May 26 and both the states will experience heavy rainfall from May 22 to 26.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-yaas-west-bengal-fishermen-advised-not-to-venture-into-sea-from-may-23-101621672260263.html
22-05-2021||India||Sonia Gandhi writes to Modi over shortage of mucormycosis drug||Congress chief Sonia Gandhi on Saturday cited reports of shortage of a medicine needed to treat mucormycosis or black fungus as she wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and sought immediate relief for those suffering from the disease.Black fungus has emerged as a major, potentially life-threatening Covid-19 complication and on Thursday prompted the Centre to ask states to declare the disease notifiable under the Epidemic Diseases Act.Gandhi requested Modi to have the disease covered under the Ayushman Bharat and other government health insurance schemes. “...the illness is not covered under Ayushman Bharat and most other health insurance products. I would request you to kindly take immediate action on the matter...”She cited the Centre’s advisory to the states on declaring mucormycosis as an epidemic and added this means that there must be an adequate production and assured supply of essential medicines to treat the disease. She also called for free treatment of the disease. Gandhi said Liposomal Amphotericin-B needed to treat the disease should be immediately made available to the states while citing reports of its shortage.She wrote to Modi a day after the Prime Minister warned against the “new challenge of black fungus” and said the country must be prepared to fight the fatal condition increasingly being reported among recovering Covid-19 patients.The Centre on Thursday told the Delhi high court that there were 7,251 cases of mucormycosis in India as of May 19.Mucormycosis is a fungal infection with a fatality rate of at least 50%. Typically a rare disease, experts and doctors say thousands have now contracted it because of an overuse of steroids or due to suppression of their immune system, which is often a fallout of attempts to stop the life-threatening immune overreaction due to Covid-19.The actual spread of the disease is likely be wider, and authorities in several states have now sounded the alarm on the disease. Over 200 deaths have been recorded due to mucormycosis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sonia-gandhi-writes-to-modi-over-shortage-of-mucormycosis-drug-101621671896727.html
22-05-2021||India||Madhya Pradesh's positivity rate dips below 5%; govt to ease 'covid curfew' from June 1||Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Saturday said that the restrictions imposed in the state to contain coronavirus disease (Covid-19) will be lifted from June 1. The chief minister announced the beginning of the 'unlock' phase as he said that the positivity rate in the state has come down to around 4%. "Having an infection rate of up to 5% means that it is under control," Chouhan added."We have to open #MPJantaCurfew from June 1, but open it in such a way that its infection does not spread again," Chouhan said.हमें 1 जून से #MPJantaCurfew को खोलना है, लेकिन खोलना इस तरह से है कि फिर से इसका संक्रमण फैलने न पाये।: मुख्यमंत्री श्री @ChouhanShivraj #MPFightsCorona #IndiaFightsCorona pic.twitter.com/fGySuLckKa"We are fighting a long war against # Covid-19 and I am happy to inform you today that the positivity rate in the state has come down to around 4 percent," the chief minister announced.The chief minister urged the citizens to strictly follow the guidelines of the Covid-19 curfew till May 31 to prevent the spread. He also laid stress on testing of the migrant workers entering the state and asked the officials to ensure that the benefits of the schemes for the workers reach them, as he said this is the necessity against the Covid-induced challenges.Chouhan further said that the installation process for the oxygen plant is ongoing at a rapid pace to prevent any lack of the essential life-saving gas. He also announced ₹5,000 per month pension to children who lost their parents to the disease.Also read| Black fungus: Govt allocates 23,680 additional vials of Amphotericin-B to states"We are setting up new oxygen plants in the state at a rapid pace, so that there is no shortage of oxygen. At the same time, we urge you all to plant trees, so that the balance of nature is maintained and natural oxygen is available to all of us," Chouhan said.Madhya Pradesh on Friday found 4,384 people infected with the virus in the last 24 hours, while 79 lost their lives to the disease. The state's tally on Friday reached 7,57,119 and the death toll stood at 7,394, according to the state health department, reported PTI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madhya-pradesh-s-positivity-rate-dips-below-5-govt-to-ease-covid-curfew-from-june-1-101621667192960.html
22-05-2021||India||Black fungus outbreak: Centre allocates 23,680 additional vials of Amphotericin- B to states, UTs||Union minister of chemicals and fertilizers DV Sadananda Gowda announced an allocation of 23,680 additional vials of Amphotericin- B, a key drug to treat raging Mucormycosis or 'black fungus', to various states and Union territories on Saturday.The allocation has been made based on the total number of patients, the minister informed in the official release.After a detailed review of rising no. of cases of #Mucormycosis in various states, a total of 23680 additional vials of #Amphotericin- B have been allocated to all States/UTs today.The Allocation has been made based on total no. of patients which is approx. 8848 across country. pic.twitter.com/JPsdEHuz0WMucormycosis is a rare fungal disease commonly being detected in the Covid-19 patients who are in the recovery phase. People get Mucormycosis, of which there are several types, by breathing in the fungal spores. They can be spread in hospitals and homes by air humidifiers or oxygen tanks containing dirty water.The infection needs to be caught early as it is aggressive and has a high fatality rate. It directly attacks the immune system of the patients and people with Covid-19 and along with comorbidity are in the most vulnerable category.Doctors are suspecting that the sudden surge in Mucormycosis may be linked to the rapid use of steroids to treat Covid-19 patients.The distribution of additional vials comes as several states are reeling under the fatal Mucormycosis epidemic. With infection spreading rapidly in the country, it has led to the shortage of key medicines to treat the fungal infection. On Friday the health ministry said that it was looking for more companies to produce the antifungal drug amphotericin B used to treat it and also increase imports of the medication.India has confirmed 8,848 confirmed cases of Mucormycosis, with Gujarat being the epicentre of the disease. As per the figures mentioned in the release, Gujarat has the highest number of cases with 2,281 infected people. It is followed by Maharashtra with 2000 cases of black fungus.Andhra Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Telangana have 910, 720, 700, 350 cases respectively, the ministry states in the release.In the national capital, 197 people have been infected with black fungus.On Friday, All India Institute of Medical Science (Aiims) director Randeep Guleria listed three factors important in the prevention of the Mucormycosis outbreak."Three factors are very important: First, good control of blood sugar levels; second, those on steroids must monitor blood sugar levels regularly; and, third, be careful about when to give steroids and their dosage," news agency ANI quoted Guleria saying as the Covid-linked infection claimed more than 7,000 lives in the country so far.Guleria also acknowledged that steroid use has become much more prevalent during the ongoing second wave of Covid-19. "Those given high doses of steroids when not indicated can lead to high blood sugar levels and a high chance of Mucormycosis," he said. Guleria called for judicious use of steroids.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/black-fungus-outbreak-centre-allocates-23-680-additional-vials-of-amphotericin-b-to-states-uts-101621668814439.html
22-05-2021||India||Congress' VD Satheesan elected as new leader of opposition in Kerala||Senior Congress leader VD Satheesan was elected as the leader of opposition Kerala on Saturday. The 56-year-old Satheersan is a member of the legislative assembly from Paravur. He will replace Ramesh Chennithala.The five-time legislator wields enough influence among young cadres of the party and his appointment as the leader comes as Congress is focussing more on brandishing youth power along with the party veterans.Satheesan was also part of the Kerala Students Union.The ruling Communist Party of India (Marxist)-led Left Democratic Front (LDF) broke the four-decade-old jinx after the recently held assembly election as it bagged 99 seats out of 140. The Congress-led United Democratic Front won 41, while the Bharatiya Janata Party failed to open its account.On Thursday, Pinarayi Vijayan took oath as the chief minister of Kerala for the second consecutive term. He is heading a 20-member cabinet that includes K Rajan, P Prasad, J Chinchurani and GR Anil. ChittayamCPI also nominated new faces as ministers, going by the party's rule of not fielding any ministers for two consecutive terms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-vd-satheesan-elected-as-new-leader-of-opposition-in-kerala-101621668544899.html
22-05-2021||India||News updates from HT: Biden admin backs dating sites to boost US Covid-19 vaccination drive and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Biden admin backs dating sites to boost plateauing vaccination campaign in USA Covid-19 vaccine can save your life and get you a date. The Biden White House on Friday threw its support behind - somewhat awkwardly - vaccination features introduced on dating apps such as Tinder, Match and Hinge. Read moreModi government cannot say it didn't anticipate consequences, it has been forewarned: Chidambaram on vaccine crisisVeteran Congress leader and former Union finance minister P Chidambaram on Saturday criticised the Narendra Modi-led government at the Centre and said that it cannot say now that it didn't anticipate the consequence of the vaccine shortage because the government had been "duly forewarned". Read moreGujarat reports first case of black fungus in 15-year-old childThe rapidly spreading Mucormycosis, commonly known as black fungus, is now affecting children as well. In Gujarat, the epicentre of the rare fungal disease that affects Covid-19 patients, a 15-year-old was found to be infected with Mucormycosis. Read more'Shah Rukh Khan spoke to all the players individually': Chakravarthy remembers Covid-19 ordeal during IPL 2021Varun Chakravarthy was one of the first players to test positive for Covid-19 in the Indian Premier League 2021. Chakravarthy went for scans on his shoulder after Kolkata Knight Riders’ match against CSK and it is reported that he tested positive for the virus after that. Read moreRadhe's 4.2 million streams don't equal ₹100 crore; Salman Khan film's revenue has been overestimatedSalman Khan had asserted that the box office collections of his new film, Radhe: Your Most Wanted Bhai, would be 'zero' in India. But how much money did the film actually end up generating? Watch hereMommy-to-be Dia Mirza believes meditation is a superpower that is life-alteringMeditation and Yoga have become a part of many peoples lives. Celebrities like Milind Soman and Shilpa Shetty often share posts about mental health and meditation and talk about their importance, especially now. Read moreThis wholesome clip of woman’s parents reading her acceptance letter to college may make you smileA heartening clip of a woman surprising her parents with her acceptance letter to optometry school has now gone viral on Twitter and melting the hearts of netizens. Read moreHow Covid second wave impacted India’s economy & the way forwardThe second wave of the Covid pandemic in India has been a major setback to an economy that was struggling to find its feet after the shock of the extended Covid induced lockdown in 2020. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-biden-admin-backs-dating-sites-to-boost-us-covid-19-vaccination-drive-and-all-the-latest-news-101621667164566.html
22-05-2021||India||Govt asks social media platforms to remove content mentioning 'Indian variant' of Covid-19||The government has asked social media companies to immediately remove any content on their platform which mentions or refers to the term 'Indian variant' of coronavirus, in a bid to curb spread of misinformation around Covid-19.Digital platforms said they have received the latest advisory.On Friday, the IT ministry wrote to all social media platforms emphasising that the World Health Organisation (WHO) has not associated the term "Indian Variant" with the B.1.617 variant of the coronavirus in any of its reports.A notice issued in this regard by the IT ministry states that a "false statement" is being circulated online that implies that an 'Indian variant' of coronavirus is spreading across the countries.The IT ministry said the matter has already been clarified by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare on May 12, 2021 through a press statement.The social media platforms have been asked to "remove all the content that names, refers to, or implies 'Indian variant' of corona virus from your platform immediately".Previously, the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology had issued advisories regarding curbing of false news/misinformation concerning coronavirus on social media platforms.India is one of the biggest markets for digital platforms like Google, Facebook, and Twitter.As per data cited by the government, recently, the country has 53 crore WhatsApp users, 44.8 crore YouTube users, 41 crore Facebook users, while 21 crore use Instagram and 1.75 crore are on Twitter.Earlier this year, the government had introduced guidelines to curb the misuse of social media platforms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-asks-social-media-platforms-to-remove-content-mentioning-indian-variant-of-covid19-101621665515658.html
22-05-2021||India||Gujarat reports first case of black fungus in 15-year-old child||The rapidly spreading Mucormycosis, commonly known as black fungus, is now affecting children as well. In Gujarat, the epicentre of the rare fungal disease that affects Covid-19 patients, a 15-year-old was found to be infected with Mucormycosis. "This is the first case of paediatric Mucormycosis in Ahmedabad," paediatric doctor Abhishek Bansal said on Saturday, as reported by the news agency ANI.The boy was discharged from the hospital earlier after successfully recovering from the Covid-19 disease in April. Later, he was diagnosed with Mucormycosis, the doctor said. He is currently stable and will be discharged after two to three days, news agency ANI reported quoting the doctor.The local media reported that the boy complained of symptoms after a week of recovering from the viral infection and was undergoing treatment at Apple Children’s Hospital.Amid the Covid-19 outbreak in the country, cases of Mucormycosis have emerged in patients who were in the recovery phase of the disease. The fungal infection is more life-threatening and attacks those with weak immune systems or who have comorbidity like diabetes. The disease can result in breathing problems and coughing blood. Other symptoms include blackening or discolouration over the nose, blurred or double vision and chest pain.Also Read | Black fungus: Here is a list of states with highest number of mucormycosis casesDoctors are suspecting that the sudden surge in Mucormycosis may be linked to the rapid use of steroids to treat Covid-19 patients.On Friday, the health officials of Gujarat said that more than 1,100 Mucormycosis patients who had recovered from Covid-19 are undergoing treatment at government hospitals in four major cities of Gujarat.The highest number of 450 patients are admitted to the Rajkot civil hospital, 350 to the main civil hospital of Ahmedabad, around 110 in two state-run hospitals in Surat city and around 225 patients are receiving treatment in government hospitals in Vadodara city including 148 at SSG hospital, PTI reported quoting local administration.All India Institute of Medical Science (Aiims) director Randeep Guleria on Friday listed three factors important in the prevention of Mucormycosis outbreak."Three factors are very important: First, good control of blood sugar levels; second, those on steroids must monitor blood sugar levels regularly; and, third, be careful about when to give steroids and their dosage," news agency ANI quoted Guleria saying as the Covid-linked infection claimed more than 7,000 lives in the country so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gujarat-reports-first-case-of-black-fungus-in-15-year-old-child-101621663059384.html
22-05-2021||India||Modi government cannot say it didn't anticipate consequences, it has been forewarned: Chidambaram on vaccine crisis||Veteran Congress leader and former Union finance minister P Chidambaram on Saturday criticised the Narendra Modi-led government at the Centre and said that it cannot say now that it didn't anticipate the consequence of the vaccine shortage because the government had been "duly forewarned".The Modi government cannot say “we did not anticipate these consequences’. The government has been duly forewarned.In a series of tweets, Chidamabaram also said, "The final warning to the government is that if vaccinations are not accelerated, it will not be possible to prevent a third wave."Stressing that the government needs to provide data on capacity of domestic producers, orders placed for vaccines, import contracts concluded and the agreed schedule of delivery such vaccines etc, the Union minister alleged on the micoblogging site that that the Centre has not disclosed such information yet.WATCH: Chidambaram slams Centre over Covid vaccine; warns scientists of govt’s trap"The claim of the Union Health Minister of getting 216 crore vaccine doses by December 31 to vaccinate the entire adult population by that date must be backed by hard data. So far, it is not," Chidambaram wrote on Twitter.On Wednesday, Union health minister Harsh Vardhan said India will have procured 267 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses by the end of the year, and will be in a position to inoculate at least all of its adult population. "Between August to December 2021, India will have procured 216 crore vaccine doses while, by July this year, 51 crore doses will be procured," the Union minister said during his interaction with the health ministers and principal secretaries of West Bengal and eight northeast states.ALSO READ: 'Such a travesty': Harsh Vardhan to Chidambaram's doubt over India's Covid dataChidambaram further said both International Monetary Fund (IMF) and the World Health Organization have cautioned India about the consequences of the slow pace of vaccination.Both IMF and WHO have cautioned India about the consequences of the slow pace of vaccination.The IMF observed that the situation in India is a warning of the possible events in low and middle-income nations that have seemingly escaped the pandemic till now. A report co-authored by IMF economist Ruchir Agarwal and its chief economist Gita Gopinath on Friday also said that under the business-as-usual scenario, the vaccine coverage in India is expected to remain under 35% of the population by the end of 2021.India has administered more than 193 million vaccines across the country till Friday, since the nationwide inoculation drive began drive on January 16. However, it hit a roadblock to maintain its pace in the past couple of months owing to shortages of vaccines. Beneficiaries across the country faced difficulty in finding slots on the CoWin app, the official portal created by the Centre to book vaccination slots at both government-run and private hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-can-t-say-it-didn-t-anticipate-consequences-it-has-been-forewarned-chidambaram-on-vaccine-crisis-101621660267059.html
22-05-2021||India||Covid crisis in India a warning of possible events in other low- and middle-income countries: IMF||Observing that the ongoing "catastrophic" second wave of Covid-19 in India is a sign that the worst may be yet to come, the IMF has said that the situation in the country is a warning of the possible events in low- and middle-income nations that have seemingly escaped the pandemic till now. A report co-authored by International Monetary Fund (IMF) economist Ruchir Agarwal and its Chief Economist Gita Gopinath on Friday also said that under the business-as-usual scenario, the vaccine coverage in India is expected to remain under 35 per cent of the population by the end of 2021.“The ongoing catastrophic second wave in India, following a terrible wave in Brazil, is a sign the worst may be yet to come in the developing world,” it said.While India’s health system held up fairly well in the first wave, this time its health system is so overwhelmed that many people are dying because of a lack of medical supplies like oxygen, hospital beds, and medical care, the report said."India is a warning of possible events in other low- and middle-income countries (LMICs) that so far have seemingly escaped the pandemic, including in Africa,” it said.For India, the report said, current bilateral purchases of vaccine plus coverage from COVAX will cover about 25 per cent of its population by the first half of 2022.To get to 60 per cent coverage, India will need to immediately place sufficient vaccine orders of about 1 billion doses through contracts that incentivise investment in additional capacity and augmentation of the supply chain.“In this context, the authorities’ recently announced financing of about USD 600 million to the Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech to boost production capacity in the near term is a welcome step,” the report said, adding that authorities estimate that two billion doses will be available by the end of 2021.Efforts should be made to ensure that the projected production capacity will materialise without delay, including through securing the supply chain for raw materials—supported by international efforts to eliminate export restrictions on all critical inputs, it added.In its report, the IMF said that an urgent focus should be to eliminate constraints on cross-border exports of critical raw materials and finished vaccines. Free cross-border flow of vaccine inputs and supplies is essential for the world to achieve its vaccination targets without delay.Governments are taking steps to relax such constraints on raw materials, it said, citing the recent pledge by the US to facilitate greater access of critical raw material to Indian manufacturers after severe shortages emerged.However, there is scope for greater multilateral action on this front, as significant constraints still remain, it said.The IMF report said India continues to face production bottlenecks, including due to ongoing shortages of critical raw materials, suggesting the need for further relaxation of de facto export restrictions under the US Defence Production Act.Despite such near-term constraints, as of mid-May 2021, the authorities estimate that over two billion doses will be available by the end of the year based on company-level supply projections publicly shared by officials.“Therefore, while current pre-purchases of vaccines plus coverage from the COVAX AMC remains around 25 per cent, the authorities intend to meet the residual needs through the additional production,” it said.To reach a coverage of 60 per cent of the population, India will need to order roughly one billion doses of additional vaccines."Given the authorities are expected to comfortably use domestic resources for meeting these residual needs and are not seeking external financing for these purposes, we do not allocate additional funds for India in our budgeting exercise," the IMF said.Indian authorities are currently pursuing a strategy of procuring vaccines for those above 45 years of age by the central government while enabling states to procure vaccines for those aged 18-44.Given the current vaccine pricing offered by domestic suppliers, and the estimated size of the younger population in India, the additional funding needs for the centre for covering the 18-44 population is approximately 0.25 per cent of the GDP, suggesting that there is scope for the government to handle the entire procurement centrally, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-crisis-in-india-a-warning-of-possible-events-in-other-low-and-middle-income-countries-imf-101621659535648.html
22-05-2021||India||UP govt announces reward for making villages, wards Covid-free with new campaign||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Aditynath on Friday announced a special campaign to make villages virus free of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) now wreaking havoc in the rural areas of the country.The special campaign, 'Mera Gaon-Corona Mukt Gaon' (My village-Corona free village), was announced on Friday by the chief minister while he was in Lakhimpur district to review containment measures.It aims to draw local participation to bring down the Covid-19 tally in the country's most-populous state and will be run with special focus on the rural areas. In urban areas, a similar drive will be conducted at the ward level.Emphasis will be placed on strict screening, treatment and vaccination and the state government will reward the three best-performing villages and wards for developmental work through various means. They will also receive additional funds for such work.Speaking after his visit to the district, Yogi Adityanath noted that the large-scale testing in the state is leading to good results. He also appreciated the containment strategy and said it should be made into a "mission."“It was being said that after April 24, one lakh cases will come in the state every day. At present, there are only about 7,000 active cases in the entire state,” the chief minister said, adding that “Uttar Pradesh has successfully fought against Corona,” according to HT's sister site, LiveHindustan.com.The chief minister stressed on saving both life and livelihood.During the second wave of Covid-19, Uttar Pradesh was among the worst-hit states of the country. On Friday, the state government said the number of active cases in the state has come down by 68% since the peak. While the recovery rate has improved to 92.5%.During the peak on April 30, there were 3,10,783 active Covid-19 cases in the state which have now come down to 1,06,276.On Friday, the state added 7,735 fresh Covid-19 cases which took the total case tally to 16,59,212 while the number of total fatalities stood at 18,760.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-govt-announces-reward-for-making-villages-wards-covid-free-with-new-campaign-101621657059808.html
22-05-2021||India||QR code on RT-PCR reports must for passengers flying out of India from today||Passengers travelling abroad will need to carry a negative RT-PCR test report with a QR code from Saturday, the Union ministry of civil aviation said in a set of guidelines issued last week to ensure minimum physical contact. "The airline operators are advised to accept only those passengers who are carrying a negative RT-PCR test report with QR code for boarding international flights departing from India after 0001 hours on 22nd May 2021," the ministry said in a release.Airlines operating in international sectors were advised to make the necessary arrangements. The rule applied to those passengers who are required to carry a negative RT-PCR test report as per the guidelines issued by their destination countries, the release added.Many laboratories have now started providing QR codes on RT-PCR test reports after cases of people editing the reports to show a negative result to meet the regulatory requirements have been reported.Covid-19 manager at Pune's Krsnaa Diagnostics, Shravan Mutha, said that his lab had taken up the practice to counter fake-negative reports. "The QR code takes you to our portal, where the patient can get the details," he said.As the second wave of the pandemic continues to rage in the country, the ban on international commercial passenger flights remains in place till May 31. Several countries, including the United States, Australia, Canada, the UAE and Britain, have also banned flights from India to curb the spread of the highly contagious Covid-19 strain that was first found in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/qr-code-on-rt-pcr-reports-must-for-passengers-flying-out-of-india-from-today-101621649845256.html
22-05-2021||India||India's daily Covid-19 deaths remain above 4,000 for the second day; tally crosses 26.28 million||India continued to maintain a downward trajectory on Saturday as its confirmed coronavirus (Covid-19) cases and deaths remained below record levels in the last 24 hours. According to the daily health bulletin by the Union ministry of health and family welfare, 2,57,299 people were found to be positive of the viral disease taking India's Covid-19 caseload to 2,62,89,290.As many as 4,194 people lost their lives in the previous 24 hours as the cumulative death toll touched 2,95,525.On May 19, the country recorded its highest jump in the daily fatalities as 4,529 people succumbed to the viral disease. Experts have suggested that the trend may continue to rise for another week at least before it begins to settle down in proportion to the number of daily cases.Click here for complete Covid-19 coveragePublic health expert Dr VK Monga attributed the fatalities to prolonged hospitalisation and Covid-19 complications, the news agency ANI reported. “A large number of patients are still admitted in ICU in various hospitals... and because of the complications of Covid-19 and prolonged stay in hospitals, they may lose the battle, thus resulting in increased figures of death," Monga said in the report.Meanwhile, 23,070,365 people have recovered from the Covid-19 as of Saturday morning, the health ministry's dashboard showed.As of May 21, the country has tested a total of 32,64,84,155 samples for Covid-19, of these, 20,66,285 samples were tested over the last 24-hours, the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) said in a statement.India is reeling under the catastrophic second wave of Covid-19, however, over the last two weeks, the numbers have come down from more than 400,000 infections in a day at a time of the peak. The unprecedented rise in the cases had led to swamped hospitals in major cities of the country including the national capital.With improvement in daily infections, authorities are now working to alleviate the shortage of a medicine used to treat a rare fungal disease, prevailing in Covid-19 patients who are at the recovery phase.Mucormycosis, or black fungus as it is commonly known, is a life-threatening fungal infection that attacks those with weak immune systems. Its symptoms include blackening or discolouration over the nose, blurred or double vision and chest pain.With cases rising to worrying levels, the health ministry on Friday said it was looking for more companies to produce the antifungal drug Amphotericin B used to treat it and also increase imports of the medicine.According to the health ministry's statement on Friday, ten states, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Maharashtra, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, West Bengal, Odisha, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and Assam, accounted for 76.66% of new cases registered in a day.On Friday, Tamil Nadu reported the highest daily new cases at 35,579. It was followed by Kerala with 30,491 confirmed cases.On the vaccination front, the country has administered 193-million shots so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-covid-19-tally-rises-by-257-299-cases-death-toll-reaches-295525-101621655742588.html
22-05-2021||India||News updates from HT: Farm unions write to PM Modi, seek resumption of dialogue||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Farm unions write to PM Modi, seek resumption of dialogueAlmost four months after talks between the government and protesting farm groups broke down, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha, a platform of farmer unions wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday, asking the Union government to resume dialogue to end the agitation, but remained steadfast on their demand to scrap the legislation. Read more.Over 800k migrants left Delhi after lockdown announced: GovtAt least 800,000 migrant workers travelled from Delhi to their home states in the first four weeks of lockdown in the Capital, nearly half of them in the first week, a report by the Delhi government said, highlighting that buses and other arrangements were made for labourers to avoid a repeat of last year’s crisis. Read more.WHO: Covid deaths 2 to 3 times higherThe official death toll from the Covid-19 pandemic is likely to be a “significant undercount”, the World Health Organization (WHO) said on Friday, estimating that the true figure of direct and indirect deaths could be “two to three times higher”. Read more.'It's an amazing, interesting idea': Inzamam-Ul-Haq weighs in on Rahul Dravid possibly coaching India for Sri Lanka tourFormer Pakistan captain Inzamam-Ul-Haq is excited at the prospect of seeing Rahul Dravid take charge of the team when India travels to Sri Lanka to play an ODI and T20I series in July. Read more.Watch: Mira Rajput tries Callisthenics during inspiring outdoor fitness sessionGet ready to take your weekend workout motivation from Mira Rajput. The star is known for her fitness routines and her clean eating habits. She often shares glimpses from her workouts and snips of her meals to motivate followers to stay active. Watch here.Arjun Kapoor on respecting Malaika Arora's past, dating someone 'older with son from earlier marriage'Actor Arjun Kapoor has said that his past has impacted the way in which he handles his relationship with Malaika Arora. The couple went public with their relationship in 2019. Read more.Watch: Drones used for sanitising public places in Kerala’s ThrissurThrissur’s municipal corporation used drones for sanitisation. Municipal corporation to use drones in markets, bus stands etc. Drones were seen sanitising a bus stand in Thrissur, Kerala. Kerala on Friday reported 29,673 covid cases and 142 deaths. Watch here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-farm-unions-write-to-pm-modi-seek-resumption-of-dialogue-101621653683864.html
22-05-2021||India||India cumulatively administers 193 million Covid-19 vaccine shots||The cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccines doses administered in the country crossed the 193-million mark on Friday, according to the provisional report by the Union ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW).The report mentioned that 6,63,353 beneficiaries in the age group of 18-44 years received their first dose of the jab on Friday (May 21), while the country has logged cumulative inoculation of 92,73,550 people across 37 states and Union territories since the start of the third phase of the vaccination drive. This includes 1,183,124 from Rajasthan, 1,060,702 from Bihar, 885,881 from Delhi, 682,744 from Maharashtra, 960,032 from Uttar Pradesh, 671,800 from Haryana and 602,691 from Gujarat.More than 1.38 million doses of the coronavirus vaccine were given to the beneficiaries till 8pm on Friday, data released by the government showed.The third phase of the inoculation drive began on May 1, when the government also allowed all above 18-years to get the jab.As of Friday evening, a total of 193,297,222 doses have been administered, out of which 97,37,237 healthcare workers have received their first dose while 66,89,893 healthcare workers have been immunised completely.The cumulative number also includes 1,48,63,770 frontline workers with the first dose of the vaccine and 83,05,152 who have received both doses."The vaccination exercise as a tool to protect the most vulnerable population groups in the country from Covid-19 continues to be regularly reviewed and monitored at the highest level," the ministry said in the report.India rolled out the nationwide vaccination drive on January 16. However, it hit a roadblock to maintain its pace in the past couple of months owing to shortages of vaccines. Beneficiaries across the country faced difficulty in finding slots on the CoWin app, the official portal created by the Centre to book vaccination slots at both government-run and private hospitals.According to a report by ANI, India will get vaccines from five additional manufacturers by the end of the third quarter of this year. These vaccines are the Sputnik V vaccine (in collaboration with Dr Reddy's), Johnson & Johnson vaccine (in collaboration with Biological E), Novavax vaccine (in collaboration with Serum India), Zydus Cadila's vaccine, and Bharat Biotech's Intranasal Vaccine.India is currently using Covishield, developed by Oxford University and AstraZeneca and manufactured by the Serum Institute of India, and Bharat Biotech's indigenously manufactured Covaxin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-cumulatively-administers-193-million-covid-19-vaccine-shots-101621651610179.html
22-05-2021||India||Air India data breach: All you need to know||A cyber-attack on the servers of national carrier Air India resulted in a massive data breach on Friday and affected around 4.5 million customers of the airline. Details, including passport and credit card information of these passengers, were compromised in the attack, Air India said in a statement.“As part of our commitment, we would like to inform you that SITA PSS, our data processor of the passenger service system, recently notified Air India of a data security breach involving personal data of certain passengers, including yours,” the airlines said in a communication to the passengers whose data got stolen.Here is all you need to know about the Air India data breach:- The cyber-attack that left millions of passengers from across the world jeopardised involved personal data registered between August 26, 2011, and February 20, 2021, Air India said in a statement.- “We hereby address to you a personal communication of this data security incident. The breach involved some personal data registered between 26th August 2011 and 20th February 2021 with details that included name, date of birth, contact information, passport information, ticket information, frequent flyer data and also credit cards data,” it said.- In March, Air India said its data processor SITA PSS had flagged a cyber-attack it was subjected to in the last week of February and said it led to the leak of personal data of some of the national carrier’s passengers.- Air India, which assured its passengers that there was no evidence of any “misuse” of the data, said it is in touch with regulatory agencies in India and abroad over the attack.- The airlines also encouraged passengers to change their passwords after the breach, to ensure the safety of their confidential data.- After the incident, the airline said it secured the compromised servers, engaged external specialists of data security incidents, notified and is in talks with the credit card issuers and reset the passwords of Air India frequent flyer programmes.“For more information, you can contact on email id aidata.helpdesk@airindia.in, or call on 01242641415 or visit the website www.airindia.in,” Air India said in its communique to the affected passengers.Currently, other than special flights under the “Vande Bharat” mission, Air India is only operating domestic flights as international travel remains suspended owing to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-india-data-breach-all-you-need-to-know-101621647788771.html
22-05-2021||India||Air India says 10 years of passenger data breached||India’s national airline Air India on Friday reported a data breach that it said involved the personal data, including contact details, credit card numbers and passport information, of an unspecified number of customers.The national carrier said the compromise involved personal data registered between August 26, 2011 and February 20, 2021 and that the data was breached during a hack on its data processor, SITA, which disclosed a cyberattack in March.SITA offers back-end network services to a number of airlines and several of them sent similar notifications to their customers earlier this month. The affected airlines included Lufthansa, Finnair, British Airways, Singapore Airlines, American Airlines and United, and involved close to 4.5 million records.Air India said the data of its customers involved those that were registered over a span of nearly 10 years. “The breach involved personal data registered between 26 August 2011 and 3 February 2021, with details that included name, date of birth, contact information, passport information, ticket information, Star Alliance and Air India frequent flyer data (but no passwords data were affected) as well as credit cards data,” a notification from Air India said.The airline added: “While we had received the first notification in this regard from our data processor on 25.02.2021, we would like to clarify that the identity of the affected data subjects was only provided to us by our data processor on 25.03.2021 and 5.04.2021”.“SITA confirms that it was the victim of a cyber-attack, leading to a data security incident involving certain passenger data that was stored on SITA Passenger Service System (US) Inc servers,” SITA said in a statement on March 4, as per media reports.Cybersecurity experts said they were yet to see specifically Air India data being sold on dark web forums, but added that since the hack did not include passwords, the data may instead be sold as a tranche of credit and debit card data. “The credit card data may show up as individual tranches of card information based on limits etc,” said Yash Kadakia, founder and CTO of Security Brigade.Experts have separately said that sensitive person information like contact and passport data could potentially lead to impersonation attacks and allow perpetrators to break into people’s bank accounts by using such data for verification.“Our data processor has been subjected to a cybersecurity attack leading to personal data leak of passengers. This affected around 4,500,000 data subjects in the world,” Air India said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-india-says-10-years-of-passenger-data-breached-101621646500624.html
22-05-2021||India||India drenched in Tauktae aftermath||Cyclone Tauktae, which made landfall in Gujarat late on Monday evening, has been called the most powerful Arabian Sea cyclone in over two decades. It caused rainfall not seen this time of the year not just along the western coast, but also inland. Here’s how unprecedented the rainfall was in different parts of India.25 states and UTs saw above normal rainfallThe IMD classifies a 20% or more departure from the long period average – the average rainfall from 1961 to 2010 – as rainfall as ‘abnormal’. If the departure is 20% to 59%, it is said to be ‘excess’, and it is 60% or more, the rainfall is said to be in ‘large excess’. For the May 16 to May 21 period (the data is collated for the 24-hour period ending at 8.30am), 25 states recorded ‘above normal’ rainfall. While five states saw just excess rainfall or a departure of just 20% to 59%, 20 states and union territories (UTs) witnessed ‘large excess’. However, even this large excess rainfall was of varying degrees in different areas. In Gujarat, where the cyclone made landfall, the rainfall for this period has been 3,620% above normal, for instance. Landlocked states like Delhi and Madhya Pradesh, where rainfall is not common this time of the year, recorded rainfall 2,000% above normal.Highest ever rainfall in 8 states and UTsPossibly due to different reasons – either a large excess rainfall because of proximity to the cyclone or due to historical absence of rainfall in this period – the recent rain spell broke all-time records in several regions. In eight states and UTs – Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Uttarakhand, Goa and Dadra & Nagar Haveli – the rainfall was the highest ever since 1901, the earliest year for which data is available from IMD. In Gujarat, the 48mm rain in this period was the second highest since 1933. To be sure, the 48mm rainfall in Gujarat is the average for the entire state. Coastal areas are likely to have seen much higher rainfall than inland areas.In Delhi, 3rd wettest non-monsoon day of all timeDelhi saw incessant rain on Wednesday and Thursday – for the 24-hour period from 8.30am on May 19 to 8.30am on May 20, 80.21 mm rainfall took place in the city-state. Looking at all-time records (in the 9,893 days since January 1, 1901), this is the 55th highest single-day rainfall ever recorded in the city. Most of the 54 days that have seen higher rainfall than the current spell always fell during the monsoon period (June to September), when such rain is expected. Outside of monsoon months, only two days have seen a higher rainfall in the city – on October 9, 1956 and October 2, 2010.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-drenched-in-tauktae-aftermath-101621646784323.html
22-05-2021||India||Gandhian tree hugger sparked andolans, and took conservation to the world||In early 1974, the state government announced the auctioning of 2,500 trees overlooking the Alaknanda river in the upper reaches of what is now Uttarakhand. Lumberjacks arrived in Raini village to cut the trees. A local girl saw them and informed the villagers. Women in large groups came out and stopped the lumbermen by hugging the trees. Three local women, Gaura Devi, Sudesha Devi, and Bachni Devi, championed the cause. Through the days that followed, the women refused to leave the trees. That marked the beginning of the Chipko (to hug) movement.The movement was actually the brainchild of a Gandhian activist, Vimla Bahuguna.On Friday, her husband and fellow Gandhian, Sunderlal Bahuguna -- they married with the clear understanding that they would live in the village in an ashram -- who took the Chipko movement to the world and lived a life of austerity, died in Rishikesh on Friday from Covid-19. He was 94.Bahuguna transformed the spontaneous Chipko movement into a turning point in India’s forest conservation efforts by taking it to different parts of Uttarakhand forcing then Prime Minister Indira Gandhi to impose a 15-year ban on tree-cutting in the state. He was admitted to the Rishikesh-based All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) on May 8 after testing positive for Covid-19.Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Uttarakhand chief minister Tirath Singh Rawat, and several environmental activists expressed condolences. “He manifested our centuries-old ethos of living in harmony with nature. His simplicity and spirit of compassion will never be forgotten,” Modi said.Bahuguna was born in Tehri in 1927; by his teens, he was a social activist. Then, inspired by Mohandas Gandhi, he was a nationalist and freedom fighter. He was a tireless protector of the hills, walking thousands of kilometres through them.But it was the Chipko movement that brought him to national attention.Historian and author, Ramchandra Guha and ecologist Madhav Gadgil write in “The Use And Abuse of Nature” that “Chipko was sparked by the government’s decision to allot a plot of hornbeam forest in the Alaknanda valley to Symonds, a sports goods company from faraway Allahabad. A few months before this, the Gandhian organisation in the forefront of the cooperative movement, the Dashauli Gram Swarajya Sangha, had been refused permission by the forest department to fell trees from the very same forest. The transparent favouritism provoked the villagers led by DGSS, to threaten to hug the trees and prevent them from being felled by Symond’s agents.”But the root cause of the movement was the reckless cutting of trees in the 1970s in the upper reaches of now Uttarakhand by timber merchants. From Raini village, the movement spread to several other villages as women hugged trees to protect them. Bahuguna gave a national voice to the movement and wrote a letter to then PM Indira Gandhi.Bahuguna with other activists such as Shekhar Pathak and Chandi Prasad Bhatt started a statewide campaign to protect the forests and people’s livelihood. “He was able to give direction and words to people’s sentiments in the hills. He understood their pain. Nobody could match his dedication to the Himalayas,” Pathak said.Rajendra Singh, water conservationist and founder of Tarun Bharat Sangh, said Bahuguna took the Chipko movement, started by Gaura Devi and other women from Raini village, into the global spotlight. Guha summed the movement by quoting a peasant of Badyagarh on the Chipko movement: “We got only a little food from our fields; when we could not get wood to cook even this paltry amount, we had to resort to a movement.”Bahuguna also opposed the construction of the Tehri Dam by fasting for 75 days and was able to convince the authorities to reduce the dam height, thereby saving hundreds of trees. He broke his fast at the insistence of then PM HD Deve Gowda.Remembering Bahuguna, Ravi Chopra, director, People’s Science Institute, said: “At this time when all environmental regulation and caution has been abandoned by those in power, Bahuguna ji’s voice was a great encouragement to those struggling on behalf of the environment. His passing is a step back for environmental struggles.”Bahuguna’s tireless dedication and perseverance paved the way for those who came after -- and inspired by him, many did.“My life’s vision was shaped by Bahuguna ji. I have been working with him since the 1960s. In 1974, I joined him on the Asakot Arakot padyatra. He has taught many of us the way of life. How can I sum him up in a few words? In a way he instilled the willpower to fight in all of us who worked with him -- the fight to protect our forests.,” said Vijay Jhardhari (69), Chipko movement member and founder of Beej Bachao Andolan.“The environmentalism we talk of today, Bahuguna ji represented and upheld that a generation ahead,” said Medha Patkar, rights activist and founding member of Narmada Bachao Andolan."The Chipko movement has inspired generations of environmentalism in India both in its celebration and critique. Understanding Chipko is not just about love for trees. It is about recognising that nature is a contested space between society, ecology and the economy. It tells us that state power is accountable to the public and citizens need to put their weight behind environmental justice,” said Kanchi Kohli, legal researcher, Centre for Policy Research.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gandhian-tree-hugger-sparked-andolans-and-took-conservation-to-the-world-101621645391242.html
22-05-2021||India||Army chief reviews situation along northern border in Arunachal Pradesh||Army Chief Gen MM Naravane reviewed India's operational readiness along the border with China in the Arunachal Pradesh sector during a two-day visit to the Northeastern region that began on Thursday.His visit to the region came amid the Indian Army's continued standoff with the Chinese military in some of the friction points in eastern Ladakh.Officials said Gen Naravane arrived at Dimapur in Nagaland on Thursday to review the operational readiness along the Northern borders of Arunachal Pradesh and the security situation in the hinterland in the Northeastern region."On arrival at the Corps headquarters in Dimapur, the Army Chief was briefed by Lt Gen Johnson Mathew, General Officer Commanding of Spear Corps and the Division Commanders on the prevailing situation and operational preparedness along the Northern borders," the Army said.It said the Chief of Army Staff complimented all ranks for maintaining excellent vigil and exhorted them to stay alert and keep watch on activities along the Line of Actual Control (LAC).On Wednesday, Gen Naravane said that the Army will maintain an enhanced presence on the entire northern front from Ladakh to Arunachal Pradesh till "de-escalation" is achieved.In view of the border row with China in eastern Ladakh, the Army last year significantly ramped up deployment of troops in all sensitive areas along the nearly 3,500-km-long LAC including in the Sikkim and Arunachal sectorsThe Indian Air Force(IAF) also deployed additional fighter jets and attack helicopters in key bases looking after the airspace along the LAC in the Arunachal sector.India and China were locked in a military standoff at multiple friction points in eastern Ladakh since early May last year but they have completed the withdrawal of troops and weapons from the North and South banks of Pangong lake in February following a series of military and diplomatic talks.The two sides are now engaged in talks to extend the disengagement process to the remaining friction points.There was no visible forward movement in disengagement of troops in the remaining friction points as the Chinese side did not show flexibility in their approach on it at the 11th round of military talks with the Indian Army on April 9.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-chief-reviews-situation-along-northern-border-in-arunachal-pradesh-101621644661675.html
22-05-2021||India||INS Rajput decommissioned after 41 years of service||The Indian Navy's Kashin-class destroyer INS Rajput, the first warship to be fitted with long-range BrahMos missile, was decommissioned on Friday after 41 years of service.The destroyer, built by the erstwhile USSR and commissioned on May 4, 1980, had the distinction of being part of both the Western and Eastern fleets.Indian Navy spokesperson Commander Vivek Madhwal said the warship was decommissioned in a low key event at the naval dockyard in Visakhapatnam."In her glorious service to the nation, the ship has been helmed by 31 commanding officers. The ship, since its commissioning, sailed a distance of over 7,87,194 nautical miles which is equivalent to navigating around the world 36.5 times and 3.8 times the distance from Earth to Moon," he said in a statement.Besides BrahMos, the warship was equipped with an array of weapons and sensors including anti-aircraft guns, torpedoes, and anti-submarine rocket launchers.The ship participated in several key missions in the last four decades, including operation Aman off Sri Lanka that was launched to assist the Indian Peace Keeping Forces (IPKF) and Operation Cactus to resolve a hostage situation off the Maldives.In addition, the ship participated in numerous bilateral and multi-national exercises. It was also the first Indian Naval Ship to be affiliated with an Army regiment -- the Rajput regiment.INS Rajput was constructed in the 61 Communards shipyard in Nikolaev (now Ukraine) under her original Russian name "Nadezhny", meaning "hope". The keel of the ship was laid on September 11, 1976, and she was launched on September 17, 1977.The ship was commissioned as INS Rajput at Poti, Georgia by I K Gujral, the then Indian Ambassador to the USSR, with Captain Gulab Mohanlal Hiranandani as her first commanding officer."The ship was decommissioned in a solemn and low key event due to the coronavirus pandemic when the national flag, naval ensign, and the decommissioning pennant were lowered at sunset time in the presence of Vice Admiral Ajendra Bahadur Singh, the flag officer commanding-in-chief eastern naval command," Commander Madhwal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ins-rajput-decommissioned-after-41-years-of-service-101621644671532.html
22-05-2021||India||States raise shortage of anti-fungal medicine||Amid a surge in cases of mucormycosis (black fungus), the governments of West Bengal and Haryana on Friday alerted the Centre about the shortage of Amphotericin-B -- an anti-fungal drug used to treat the infection. So far, 11 states have declared black fungus as an epidemic under the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897.The fungal infection, which some doctors have blamed on the high use of steroids to combat Covid-19, kills more than 50% of patients within days.On Friday, Haryana health minister Anil Vij sounded an alarm over the shortage of Amphotericin-B, adding that a global tender is being floated to import the medicine at the earliest. “The disease called black fungus has come to fore recently due to which there is a shortage of its medicine,” he said.Also Read| Black fungus: Here is a list of states with highest number of mucormycosis casesWest Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, too, highlighted the shortage.“The medicines are not being made available to us. The Centre procures these medicines,” she said. So far, the state has reported four cases.Under the epidemic act, all states will have to report all confirmed or suspected cases of this condition, seen in recovering Covid-19 patients, to the health ministry.During a meeting to review the pandemic situation on Friday, Union health minister Harsh Vardhan, too, expressed concern over the spread of the rare fungal infection. “Rising number of Black Fungus cases is a concern. Now we are ramping up the production of drug used for the treatment of the disease. Every state has been asked to put black fungus in the notified list.”The Centre on Thursday told the Delhi high court that as on May 19, there were 7.251 cases of mucormycosis in India.Also Read| PM Modi warns against black fungus, mourns fatalitiesAmong the states and union territories that have notified the fungal infection as an epidemic are: Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Haryana, Bihar, Jharkhand, Tamil Nadu, Delhi, Maharashtra, Telangana.Over the past 24 hours, first black fungus cases have been reported from Jammu and Kashmir and Himachal Pradesh.Union chemicals minister Sadananda Gowda said that five more manufacturers have been given licenses to manufacture Amphotericin-B.With inputs from states and agencies||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/states-raise-shortage-of-anti-fungal-medicine-101621643178427.html
22-05-2021||India||China builds villages near LAC, strengthens military facilities||China has combined a policy of building villages close to the Line of Actual Control (LAC) from Xinjiang to Bhutan while simultaneously bolstering military facilities and creating dual-use infrastructure such as airports to keep up the pressure on India, people familiar with the developments have said.Details of the way in which China systematically pumped in money for almost a decade to build “villages of moderate prosperity” along the 4,000km border of Tibet, most of which aligns with the LAC, emerged in a new policy paper on Tibet Autonomous Region released by the Chinese State Council Information Office on Friday.By the end of 2020, many border villages in the remote region were better connected to highways, and all had access to mobile communication, according to the policy paper titled Tibet Since 1951: Liberation, Development and Prosperity.Indian security agencies, too, have gathered extensive information on the campaign to speed up building of border villages along the LAC, ranging from Xinjiang to Arunachal Pradesh. “Residents are moved into the villages, mostly located in disputed regions, from other areas. Some are at a short distance from strategic features on the Indian side of the LAC,” one of the people cited above said.“We have received inputs on such villages coming up on the western sector of the LAC in Xinjiang and Tibet and the eastern sector in Arunachal Pradesh. The worrying aspect is the new pressure on Bhutan in the eastern sector of its border with China, which appears to be aimed at making Bhutan give up territory in the Doklam region.”The pressure on Bhutan is being mounted apparently with an eye on the planned 25th round of boundary talks with China, dates for which are yet to be decided, the people said.Several villages have come up in the tri-junction between India, Bhutan and China, and a new village is said to have come up close to Longju, near Arunachal, which witnessed the first clash between India and China in 1959, according to India-based Tibet expert Claude Arpi.The policy paper said 118,800 km of highways were built to provide access to all administrative villages in TAR. Ninety-four percent of towns and 76% of administrative villages have direct access to asphalt and concrete roads.Sameer Patil, fellow for international security studies at Gateway House, said: “China had the first mover advantage by beefing up border infrastructure on its side some years ago. Then the Indian side began strengthening infrastructure.... The Chinese side’s thinking appears to be that they were losing the advantage and are now undertaking a host of measures to retain that.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-builds-villages-near-lac-strengthens-military-facilities-101621642919838.html
22-05-2021||India||IAF pilot killed after MiG-21 jet crashes in Punjab's Moga||An Indian Air Force (IAF) pilot was killed after his MiG-21 fighter jet crashed at Langeana in Punjab’s Moga district late on Thursday, the police and the air force said in separate statements on Friday.The jet flown by Squadron Leader Abhinav Choudhary was on a routine training sortie and was returning to Suratgarh when the mishap occurred, officials familiar with the matter said.“There was an aircraft accident last night involving a Bison aircraft of IAF in the western sector. The pilot, Sqn Ldr Abhinav Choudhary, sustained fatal injuries. IAF condoles the tragic loss and stands firmly with the bereaved family. A Court of Inquiry (COI) has been ordered to ascertain the cause of the accident involving a Bison aircraft of IAF in the western sector,” said the IAF in a tweet.Police officials said the mishap occured at around 9:30pm and it took them three hours to spot the pilot’s body.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iaf-pilot-killed-after-mig-21-jet-crashes-in-punjab-s-moga-101621640967942.html
22-05-2021||India||Police beat UP teen to death for flouting norms: Kin||A 17-year-old vegetable vendor died on Friday after being allegedly thrashed by police for violating Covid-19 restrictions in Uttar Pradesh’s Bangarmau town, triggering protests and an official probe.The state is currently under a partial curfew amid a surge in Covid-19 cases.Mohammad Faisal was selling vegetables at the local market beyond the deadline of 3pm when the accused policeman Vijay Chowdhary and homeguard Satya Pradesh allegedly started beating him for violating Covid restrictions, said Mohammad Islam, Faisal’s father.Faisal’s family filed a police complaint that said he lost consciousness after the assault but was still taken to the local police station where his condition deteriorated. He was then referred to the Community Health Centre in Bangarmau.“We got a telephone call from a vendor who told us about the assault. I reached the kotwali but by that time, he was taken to the hospital. On getting there, I learnt he was dead,” Mohammad Islam said. He died around 4.30pm, said police.Unnao additional superintendent of police Shashi Shekhar said the deceased’s family filed a complaint and the accused will be booked for murder. In a statement, police said Unnao superintendent of police Anand Kulkarni suspended Chowdhary and sacked Satya , adding that a case will also be lodged against them.The victim’s family, however, accused the police of shielding the other accused. After Faisal’s death, several staged a protest demanding compensation to the family and action against the security personnel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/police-beat-up-teen-to-death-for-flouting-norms-kin-101621641015031.html
22-05-2021||India||Farm unions write to PM Modi, seek resumption of dialogue||Almost four months after talks between the government and protesting farm groups broke down, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha, a platform of farmer unions wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday, asking the Union government to resume dialogue to end the agitation, but remained steadfast on their demand to scrap the legislation.Farmers have been protesting at five sites in large camps near Delhi’s borders: Singhu, Ghaziabad, Tikri, Dhansa and at Shahjahanpur on the Rajasthan-Haryana border, demanding the rollback of three laws passed in September last year to lift restrictions on trade in farm produce.The continued protests have sparked concerns of a potential spread of Covid-19 infections, but the farmers have refused to give up the agitation, citing it as a matter of livelihood.“Mr Prime Minister, this letter is to remind you that, as the head of the government of the largest democracy in the world, the onus of resuming a serious and sincere dialogue with the farmers lies with you,” the letter signed by major farm leaders states.Also Read| Deep Sidhu among 16 named in first charge sheet over Red Fort violenceThe trigger for their outreach wasn’t immediately clear.The signatories include Balbir Singh Rajewal, Darshan Pal, Gurnam Singh Chadhuni, Hannan Mollah, Jagjit Singh Dallewal, Joginder Singh Ugrahan, Shiv Kumar Kakkaji, Yogendra Yadav and Yudhvir Singh, all of who belong to various farm organisations that make up the Samyukt Kisan Morcha.So far, 11 rounds of talks between 40 farm leaders and the government have failed to resolve the crisis. Both the government and farmers called off the series of discussions on January 22, citing lack of progress. The unions have rejected the government’s offer to freeze the laws for 18 months.The Modi government, in September last year, passed The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance, Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020.The government has said the laws would spur investments and give farmers freedom to sell their produce directly to large buyers in a sector that accounts for nearly 15% of India’s $2.9 trillion economy and employs half its workforce.Farmers say the laws will threaten their livelihoods by forcing them to sell to corporate giants at poor prices instead of government-run markets, which offer them minimum support prices (MSP).Also Read| Bharatiya Kisan Sangh demands loan waiver for farmers who died of Covid-19An agriculture ministry official who oversaw previous rounds of talks declined to comment on the letter. “The government is always ready to talk to farmers. The prime minister and the agriculture minister have said this in Parliament and outside,” another official said.“We…are writing this letter a few days before our struggle completes six months on 26th May 2021. On the same day, your government at the Centre, the most anti-farmer government that this country has seen, completes seven years in office,” the letter stated.The farm leaders, however, added that they were firm on their “core demands”. These are repealing the three laws, a legal guarantee for MSP, besides protecting farmers from the adverse impact of a proposed electricity bill, which farmers fear would increase power costs for them.“The farm laws are not under implementation since they are suspended. Yet, I think the government will respond positively to starting the dialogue process again since it cannot be seen to be closing the doors for talks,” said RS Mani, a farm economist formerly with the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-unions-write-to-pm-modi-seek-resumption-of-dialogue-101621636656028.html
22-05-2021||India||Narada case: House arrest for Bengal ministers as justices differ||The Calcutta high court on Friday ordered four heavyweight Bengal politicians be kept under house arrest after a difference of opinion split the two-judge bench on granting the leaders interim bail in a corruption case.Senior ministers Firhad Hakim and Subrata Mukherjee, Trinamool Congress (TMC) legislator Madan Mitra and former Kolkata mayor Sovan Chatterjee will be placed under house arrest, the court said.A five-judge bench, headed by acting chief justice of Calcutta high court Rajesh Bindal, formed later in the day is expected to hear the matter at 11 am next week on Monday.The four have been in judicial custody since Monday after the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) arrested them in connection with the 2016 Narada bribery sting operation.Also Read| CBI makes Mamata party to Narada plea; TMC files FIR“There was a difference of opinion between acting chief justice Rajesh Bindal and justice Arijit Banerjee over the bail plea of the four accused. So, the division bench ordered that a large bench be constituted to hear the matter. Till then, the four accused would be kept under house arrest,” said Manishankhar Chatterjee, Subrata Mukherjee’s advocate.The four had secured bail from a special CBI court on Monday but hours later, the high court stayed the order. CJ Bindal was opposed to vacating the stay but justice Banerjee favoured it.On Friday, advocate Kalyan Banerjee, representing Subrata Mukherjee, told the court that Hakim’s presence was necessary for managing the Covid crisis in Kolkata. “As two of the accused persons are ministers in the state government, the court also permitted them access to administrative files and to meet government officials through video conferencing,” said Manishankhar Chatterjee.As per the court order, “government officials will not have any direct access to the accused. Meetings can be held through video conference and files can be sent to them online. A complete log of the video conference will be maintained. Record of any person visiting the house of the accused has to be maintained. Jail authorities will install CCTVs at the entry point of the houses. Any lapse shall be seriously viewed.”Also Read| Videos, witnesses in Narada case show 4 TMC leaders took cash: CBI sleuthsThe four leaders were hospitalised after complaining of illness on Tuesday. Hakim was admitted to Presidency Correctional Home’s hospital while the rest to state-run SSKM Hospital. The hospital authorities have set up a medical board to treat them. While Hakim returned home late on Friday, the other three accused were still undergoing treatment at SSKM Hospital. Soon after returning home, Hakim held a virtual meeting with officials of Kolkata Municipal Corporation to take stock of the preparedness for cyclone Yaas that is expected to hit the state on May 26.The case against the four pertains to news portal Narada News’s two-year-long sting operation. The videos of the operation were uploaded months ahead of the 2016 West Bengal assembly elections and purportedly showed some TMC leaders accepting money in exchange for alleged favours to a fictitious company.CBI’s plea to transfer the Narada trial out of the state is also pending before the high court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/narada-case-house-arrest-for-bengal-ministers-as-justices-differ-101621636914103.html
22-05-2021||India||Govt, Pfizer hit an impasse on vaccine indemnity demand||Pfizer and the central government are at loggerheads over a demand by the US drugmaker for legal protection from any claims linked to the use of its Covid-19 vaccine in one of the world’s biggest markets, two sources told Reuters.India has not given any manufacturer of a Covid-19 vaccine indemnity against the costs of compensation for any severe side effects, which is a condition Pfizer has obtained in many countries where its shots have already been widely rolled out, including Britain and the US.“The whole problem with Pfizer is the indemnity bond. Why should we sign it?” an Indian government source with direct knowledge of the matter said. “If something happens, a patient dies, we will not be able to question them (Pfizer). If somebody challenges in a court of law, the central government will be responsible for everything, not the company,” the source added.Pfizer declined to comment, citing ongoing discussions. India’s health ministry did not reply to requests for comment on Friday.The second source said Pfizer has been consistent in its position on indemnity and is not planning to change its approach for a deal with India.Local trialIndia, which is facing a shortage of shots as coronavirus cases soar, pledged last month to fast-track approvals for overseas vaccine makers including Pfizer, Moderna and Johnson and Johnson. However, none have since sought permission from India’s drug regulator to sell their vaccine in the country, which has a population of 1.35 billion.The second source said the other issue being discussed between Pfizer and New Delhi was the Indian government’s insistence on a local trial for any vaccine approval. The source added that Pfizer cannot finalise terms of a supply agreement, including indemnity, if the vaccine is not first authorised for use in India.Pfizer withdrew its application for emergency use authorisation for the vaccine developed with Germany’s BioNTech in February after India insisted on such a trial. But three other shots on sale in India, developed by AstraZeneca, Russia’s Sputnik V and Bharat Biotech have completed the small-scale safety trials.Albert Bourla, Pfizer CEO, said on May 4 he was hopeful that the government would change its policy of local trials. A third source told Reuters that India’s foreign minister would visit the US this month to try and address Pfizer’s concerns and ease exports of vaccine raw materials. The foreign ministry did not immediately respond to a request for comment. Reuters||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-pfizer-hit-an-impasse-on-vaccine-indemnity-demand-101621637053380.html
22-05-2021||India||13 Maoists killed by forces in Gadchiroli encounter||At least 15 Maoists, including seven women, were killed in an encounter with Gadchiroli Police in a forest area between Potegaon and Rajoli in Gadchiroli district of Maharashtra on Friday, officials said.The exchange of fire took place at around 5.30 am after around 200 jawans of the elite C-60 anti-Maoist squad conducted raids based on a tip-off that the local Maoist squad was trying to organise a meeting with villagers and tendu leaf contractors over wages for collection of tendu leaves.“At least 15 members of the Communist Party of India (Maoist) were killed in the encounter in the jungle,” Gadchiroli deputy inspector general of police Sandip Patil said.“So far, 15 bodies have been recovered from the site and a search is underway,” Patil added.It is believed that all the rebels killed in the encounter belonged to Kasansur dalam (squad). According to the district police, divisional committee member of the Maoists, Satish Mohanda, who was carrying a reward of ₹16 lakh on his head, was among the deceased. Deputy commander of Kasansur dalam, Rupesh Gawde, was also reportedly killed in the gun battle.District police superintendent Ankit Goyal said several armed Maoists escaped with a few bodies of their colleagues.Maharashtra home minister Dilip Walse Patil praised the police for the operation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/13-maoists-killed-by-forces-in-gadchiroli-encounter-101621630143841.html
22-05-2021||India||Sonia Gandhi slams Centre for ‘anti-people’ activities, exploiting farmers||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Friday accused the BJP-led government at the Centre of indulging in anti-people activities, playing with the future of farmers and acting against their interests by bringing in new agriculture laws. She praised the Congress government in Chhattisgarh, saying that it was trying to bring about a change in the lives of common people, particularly farmers, by empowering them financially. The Congress president indicated this in a written message read out by Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel at an event held at his official residence to disburse cash benefits to farmers and cattle-rearers under two schemes of the state government on the occasion of former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi’s death anniversary. On the occasion, Baghel transferred a sum of ₹1,500 crore into bank accounts of about 22 lakh farmers as the first instalment of agricultural input subsidy under the Rajiv Gandhi Kisan Nyay Yojna (RGKNY) for the kharif crop season 2020-21 for paddy cultivation. “In the current situation, when the BJP government at the Centre is involved in anti-people activities, playing with the future of cultivators, taking every step against interests of farmers by bringing in laws (referring to new farms laws) and exploiting them, I am satisfied that the Congress government in Chhattisgarh has been seriously fulfilling its poll promises,” Gandhi said in the message. Virtually speaking on the occasion, AICC’s Chhattisgarh in-charge PL Punia slammed the Centre saying that while the Central Vista project is the priority of the Union government, the Chhattisgarh government’s priority is its farmers and cattle-rearers. Due to the Coronavirus crisis, the state government has halted several of its major projects, including the new state assembly building, Governor house and CM house buildings, but overcoming the challenges, it provided cash benefits to farmers, which reflects its concern for them, he said. Besides, ₹7.17 crore was also transferred into the accounts of cattle-rearers as payment against the dung procurement between March 15 and May 15 under the Godhan Nyay Yojana. The RGKNY scheme was launched on May 21 last year with an aim to encourage crop production in the state. Under this scheme, the state government had given ₹5,628 crore at the rate of ₹10,000 per acre to about 19 lakh farmers in kharif season 2019-20 in four instalments for paddy cultivation. During the kharif season 2020-21, farmers will be provided an input subsidy of ₹9,000 per acre for paddy cultivation. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sonia-gandhi-slams-centre-for-anti-people-activities-exploiting-farmers-101621626472075.html
22-05-2021||India||Bharatiya Kisan Sangh demands loan waiver for farmers who died of Covid-19||The Bharatiya Kisan Sangh, an affiliate of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh that works in the agricultural sector has demanded that the government should waive the loans availed through the Kisan Credit Card for farmers who have succumbed to the Covid-19 infection. The BKS has conveyed to the ministries of finance and agriculture that the government should take a lenient view of the situation that has been brought on by the second wave of the pandemic and offer to write off the pending dues. “We had urged the government to extend the increase in credit limit till June which has been agreed to. Now we are hopeful that it will consider our request to waive off the loans of those famers who passed away because of the pandemic,” said a BKS functionary. The KCC offers farmers loans at reasonable rates to cover the cost of farming, harvest and other expenses. “It is a good scheme that benefits the farmers; the interest subsidies offered by the state and the central government reduces the burden on the farmers considerably,” the functionary said. The BKS had also urged the government to ensure that all supplies from fertiliser to seeds that are required for the Kharif sowing should be made available to the farmers during the lockdown. “Many states have imposed a locked down though essential services are being provided. However, we have asked the government to ensure that farmers can procure all that they need smoothly and without any impediments,” the functionary said. On Wednesday, BKS general secretary, Badri Narayan Chowdhury demanded that the government should rollback its order on the import of pulses. Dubbing it as an “incorrect decision” the BKS said the decision to import pulses has come at a time when farmers are preparing for the Kharif season and a variety of pulses are sown. Chaudhary said the decision of the Ministry of Commerce, to allow free import of pulses up to October, will have an adverse impact on the farmers getting remunerative prices for their harvest. “We are hopeful that just as the government agreed to our demand to continue with subsidy for fertilisers, it will consider the consequences that the free import of pulses will have on the earnings of the farmers,” the functionary quoted above said. On Friday, while inaugurating a helpline for farmers, BJP president JP Nadda thanked the government for retaining the subsidy on fertilisers. “The price of a 50 kg bag of DAP fertiliser will continue to cost only Rs.1200,” he said. “There are many leaders in the country who call themselves farmer leaders and who spoke about their issues but did not do anything on the ground. Ever since he has become the Prime Minister, Narendra Modi has taken several steps for the benefit of the farmers,” Nadda went on to add.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bharatiya-kisan-sangh-demands-loan-waiver-for-farmers-who-died-of-covid19-101621624191547.html
22-05-2021||India||Karnataka extends lockdown till June 7, to treat Black Fungus cases free of cost||Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa on Friday said that the lockdown in Karnataka will be extended by 14 days and will now end at 6 am on June 7.“Coronavirus (Covid-19) is spreading across the state and to control it there are strict restrictions that are in force till May 24. Due to these restrictions and the cooperation of the people towards the decisions of the government, the spread of the virus is coming under control day-by-day. After reviewing the opinions of experts, these strict restrictions have been extended by 14 days from 24 May till 6 am on June 7,” Yediyurappa said on Friday, after almost an hour-long meeting with cabinet ministers and other senior officials.Yediyurappa said that the provisions of the existing lockdown-like restrictions, including opening of essential shops and services from 6 am to 10 am, will remain in place.The extension of the existing lockdown comes at a time when Karnataka has seen some stabilizing of its daily Covid-19 infections in the 30,000 range, according to government data.Karnataka reported 32,218 new infections in the last 24 hours on Thursday. It also reported 52,581 recoveries which has brought down the active caseload to 514,238, according to the health bulletin. The positivity rate continued to remain high at 24.22%. The state recorded 353 more deaths as the fatality rate remained at 1.09%.Bengaluru recorded 9591 new infections and accounted for 129 fatalities.The other districts of Karnataka, which are on high alert after indications that the surge will now move towards rural areas, has also seen a spike in infections and fatalities. Ballari, Shivamogga, Tumakuru, Uttara Kannada and Mysuru are among the worst hit, recording 23, 20, 16, 22 and 12 deaths respectively.Yediyurappa had also announced a ₹1250 crore financial package, mostly targeted at unorganised workers, two days ago in lieu of the imminent extension of the lockdown, Hindustan Times had reported.“Lockdown is successful only if aggressive containment (testing, isolation & tracking) is done simultaneously. Both measures hand-in-hand could have a reasonable effect on flattening the epidemic curve,” Giridhara R Babu, epidemiologist and professor at the Public Health Foundation of India and member of Karnataka’s technical advisory committee (TAC) said in a post on Twitter.Yediyurappa also said that his administration had decided that free treatment would be provided for those infected with Mucormycosis, more commonly known as black fungus, in government hospitals.There are at least 97 cases of people infected with black fungus reported in Karnataka, according to official estimates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-extends-lockdown-till-june-7-to-treat-black-fungus-cases-free-of-cost-101621623411448.html
22-05-2021||India||Govt tender bars photos, videos at Central Vista||The Central Public Works Department has mandated restrictions on photography and videography as well as the entry of non-essential visitors during the next phase of the Central Vista project that entails the construction of a common secretariat, tender documents reviewed by HT showed on Thursday. The department has also issued guidelines under the head “Construction Sites for Covid-19 Outbreak” that mandate the use of PPE kits by those entering the areas.“Mandatory use of PPEs (face mask, hand gloves and other as applicable) by everyone entering the premise. Re-usable PPEs should be thoroughly cleaned and should not be shared with others. There will be total Ban on non-essential visitors at sites (including from Head office staff, consultants etc. Photography/Videography at site should be carried out by authorised personnel identified by Engineer in charge. Contractor shall make necessary arrangement to keep away unauthorised persons to take photographs/videos,” one of the tender documents stated.The tender inviting bids for the first three common secretariat buildings part of the Central Vista project at an estimated cost of ₹3,408 crore was issued last month, bids for which will open on June 15. It invited technical bids for the two-stage tender process for three buildings to be constructed on the plot that houses the IGNCA that is proposed to be demolished and relocated to a new campus at Jamnagar House. A total of 10 common secretariat buildings have been planned to serve as offices for about 70,000 central government employees.Last week, the Central Public Works Department, the construction arm of the government, installed boards prohibiting photography or video recording and restricted the entry of public at the construction site for the Central Vista, which includes most of the Rajpath stretch. Hindustan Times reported on May 7 that the list of trees that will be removed for the project will include at least 20 jamun trees that are nearly 100 years old and were planted as part of the original plan of Lutyens’ Delhi in the 1920s.A pre-bid meeting was held on April 30 for the common secretariat, including operations and maintenance for five years, and another was held on Tuesday. Fifteen firms evinced interest including Tata Projects Limited, Shapoorji Pallonji Group, L&T, among others.The project involves having a new Parliament building in place by India’s 75th Independence Day in 2022.Kanchi Kohli, a legal researcher at New Delhi’s Centre for Policy Research said: “The Central Vista is a public space, yet the public has been repeatedly excluded from this redevelopment process. It has been treated like a project of the government, by the government and for the government...It is this approach which is now being extended to disallow entry or photography into an area that the government... only holds in public trust.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-tender-bars-photos-videos-at-central-vista-101621622267741.html
22-05-2021||India||4.5 million passengers hit in massive cyber-attack on Air India||In a massive data breach on national carrier Air India, details of around 4.5 million passengers have been compromised including passport and credit card information, Air India said in a statement late on Friday.In a personal communication to those whose details were stolen, the airline said, “As part of our commitment, we would like to inform you that SITA PSS, our data processor of the passenger service system, recently notified Air India of a data security breach involving personal data of certain passengers, including yours.” The identity of the affected passengers, the message said, was provided by the data processor to Air India on March 25 and April 5, 2021.“We hereby address to you a personal communication of this data security incident. The breach involved some personal data registered between 26th August 2011 and 20th February 2021 with details that included name, date of birth, contact information, passport information, ticket information, frequent flyer data and also credit cards data,” it said.Air India’s passenger service system provider SITA based out of Geneva in Switzerland faced a sophisticated cyber-attack in February leading to leak of personal data of a certain number of the national carrier’s passengers.Air India said it is in touch with various regulatory agencies in India and abroad, and has apprised them about the incident in accordance with its obligations.The airline said it has taken the following steps after the data security incident: Secured the compromised servers, engaged external specialists of data security incidents, notified and is in talks with the credit card issuers and reset the passwords of Air India frequent flyer programmes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/45-million-passengers-hit-in-massive-cyber-attack-on-air-india-101621622451619.html
22-05-2021||India||Drop cases against anti-Sterlite protesters: Stalin||Chennai: Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M K Stalin on Friday ordered the withdrawal of most of the cases filed against anti-Sterlite protesters and to provide no-objection certificates (NOC) to those arrested during the protests in Thoothukudi district to pursue higher education and employment opportunities.The decision was taken on the eve of the third anniversary of the police firing that killed 13 civilians who participated in the protest. The government’s order is based on recommendations in the interim report submitted last week by the inquiry commission headed by Justice Aruna Jegadeesan.The one-woman commission was set up by the previous AIADMK regime, a day after the firing, to probe the case. “The committee has recommended withdrawal of needless cases filed against the protestors,” said an order from the state. “After consultation with the Advocate General and a report from the Director General of Police, the chief minister issued directions.”The committee also recommended monetary compensation, which the government accepted and has decided to provide ₹1 lakh each to 93 people who were arrested. One person died in jail, and his mother would be given compensation of ₹2 lakh, the order added.Most cases will be withdrawn except those against protestors, whose cases relating to damages to public property have been transferred to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), the order mentioned. All cases were filed against protesters before May 22, 2018, except those that are pending in the Supreme Court.Residents and activists had been protesting in Thoothukudi to shut down the Vedanta Limited-owned Sterlite copper smelting plant due to complaints of pollution on May 22, 2018, the 100th day of the protest, at least 13 civilians were killed and several grievously injured in a police firing which is being probed by the CBI and the retired justice Aruna Jagadeesan committee. After the incident, the state shut down the factory citing environmental violations and a case for Vedanta’s plea to re-open is pending in the apex court. However, the Supreme Court recently allowed the factory to re-open only its oxygen plant to generate medical grade oxygen which is in rising demand across the country to treat critical Covid-19 patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/drop-cases-against-anti-sterlite-protesters-stalin-101621622390889.html
22-05-2021||India||Andhra HC cancels local body polls, orders fresh SEC notice||Hyderabad: The Andhra Pradesh high court on Friday cancelled the elections to zilla parishads and mandal parishads (block parishads) held on April 8 and ordered the state election commission to issue fresh notification to conduct the polls again.A single judge bench of the high court headed by Justice M Satyanarayana Murthy said that as per the Supreme Court ruling, there should be a gap of at least four weeks between the election notification and the polling date. Justice Murthy set aside the notification issued by state election commissioner Neelam Sawhney on April 1 for the conduct of elections on April 8, with a gap of just one week and ordered for a fresh notification and polling. In all, there are 660 zilla parishad territorial constituencies (ZPTCs) and 9,984 mandal parishad territorial constituencies (MPTCs) in Andhra Pradesh, of which as many as 126 ZPTCs and 2,363 MPTCs were elected unanimously in the beginning of the election process in March 2020, before it was indefinitely postponed due to outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic. Justice Murthy, however, ruled that the unanimously elected ZPTCs and MPTCs would continue and fresh notification could be issued for holding elections only to the remaining 534 ZPTCs and 7,621 MPTCs. An official in the SEC, on the condition of anonymity, said the poll panel is contemplating challenging the order before the division bench of the high court or the Supreme Court after holding discussions with legal experts. After the intensity of the pandemic subsided early this year, former SEC Nimmagadda Ramesh Kumar held elections to the gram panchayats and urban local bodies, but not to zilla parishads and mandal parishads as he stepped down from the post on his retirement on March 31. Former chief secretary of the state Neelam Sawhney, who took over as SEC on April 1, issued the notification for the conduct of elections for ZPTCs and MPTCs on April 8. The Telugu Desam Party (TDP) and Jana Sena challenged the notification in the high court on the grounds that the new SEC had not followed the Supreme Court ruling that there should be a model code of conduct for at least four weeks before polling. Agreeing with their contentions, Justice U Durga Prasada Rao of the high court suspended the election process. The SEC moved the division bench, arguing that the four-week time for implementation of model code of conduct was not made mandatory by the Supreme Court, but was only suggestive in nature. “If the code is implemented for four weeks, all the ongoing developmental works would come to a halt,” the SEC argued. On April 7, the division bench gave an interim order permitting the SEC to hold the elections on April 8. But it ordered that the counting of votes should not be held on April 10 and results should not be declared. The division bench referred the issue back to the single judge bench to settle the issue. Accordingly, elections were held but the counting and results were withheld. The high court continued to hear the arguments till April 21 and reserved its judgement, which was delivered on Friday. In a statement, TDP legislator Anagani Satyaprasad said that the high court judgement was “a slap on the face of the Jagan government, which tried to bulldoze the election process using money and muscle power”.Jana Sena chief Pawan Kalyan, in a statement, also welcomed the high court judgement, saying it had upheld the democratic values. “At least now, the government should not go for prestige, but see that fresh notification is issued for the conduct of elections,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-hc-cancels-local-body-polls-orders-fresh-sec-notice-101621622330782.html
22-05-2021||India||Kerala extends lockdown till May 30, CM says not the time to lower guard||Thiruvananthapuram: The Kerala government on Friday extended the ongoing lockdown till May 30, while the triple lockdown enforced in four worst-affected districts will be withdrawn except in Malappuram, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said. Talking to reporters on Friday, Vijayan said though the test positivity rate and active cases have gone down slightly in the last two weeks, it was not the time to lower guard. Kerala, which is one of the five worst affected states, has been under lockdown since May 7. Later, triple lockdown (strict provisions than curfew) was imposed in four high-case districts: Thiruvananthapuram, Ernakulam, Thirssur and Malappuram. “There is no let-up in cases in Malappuram. Its TPR still remains high. Senior police officers will be camping in the district to take stock of the situation. We have to continue our vigil in other parts of the state though cases are coming down slightly,” he said. In last three days, average TPR in Malappuram was 33%. The state reported 29,673 new cases on Friday when 133,558 people were tested, recording a test positivity rate of 22.22%. The new cases pushed the active caseload in the state to 306,346, which is slightly lower than two weeks ago when the caseload had gone past 475,000. However, what is worrying for the state is the fact that the death rate is going up steadily. Kerala reported 142 deaths on Friday, highest since the outbreak began last year. The state’s mortality rate continues to remain lowest in the country at 0.4% against the national average of 1.30%. In the last one-week, the state has reported 751 deaths, according to health ministry data. Meanwhile fearing exodus of migrant labourers, the state government has started distribution of free food kits while asking contractors and builders to ensure their well-being. According to latest data, around two million people from other states are working in the state especially in construction and unorganised sectors, of which 700,000 have left Kerala in the last two months after the second wave swept the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-extends-lockdown-till-may-30-cm-says-not-the-time-to-lower-guard-101621622270908.html
22-05-2021||India||Karnataka govt extends lockdown till June 7||Bengaluru: Karnataka government on Friday decided to extend the lockdown in the state till 6 am on June 7. The CM has also announced free treatment for those infected with Mucormycosis, more commonly known as black fungus, in government hospitals. There are at least 97 cases of people infected with black fungus in Karnataka, according to the officials.“Coronavirus is spreading across the state and to control it strict restrictions were decided to be in force till May 24. However, after reviewing the opinions of experts, the restrictions have been extended by 14 days from 24 May till 6 am on June 7. Due to these restrictions and the cooperation by the people towards the decisions of the government, the spread of the virus is coming under control day-by-day,” Yediyurappa said, after almost an hour-long meeting with cabinet ministers and other senior officials.Yediyurappa said that the existing relaxations, including the opening of essential shops and services from 6 am to 10 am, will remain in force.The extension of the lockdown comes at a time when Karnataka has seen stability in its daily Covid-19 infections, according to government data.Karnataka reported 32,218 new infections in 24 hours on Thursday. It also reported 52,581 recoveries, which have brought down the active cases to 514,238, according to the health bulletin. The positivity rate continued to remain high at 24.22%. The state recorded 353 more deaths as the fatality rate remained at 1.09%.Meanwhile, Bengaluru on Friday recorded 9591 new infections and 129 deaths. The other districts of Karnataka, which are on high alert after indications that the surge will now move towards rural areas, have also seen a spike in infections and fatalities. Ballari, Shivamogga, Tumakuru, Uttara Kannada, and Mysuru are among the worst hit, recording 23, 20, 16, 22, and 12 deaths respectively.CM Yediyurappa had announced a ₹1,250 crore financial package, majorly targeted at unorganised workers two days ago, Hindustan Times reported.“The lockdown will be successful only if aggressive containment (testing, isolation & tracking) is done simultaneously. Both measures hand-in-hand could have a reasonable effect on flattening the curve,” Giridhara R Babu, epidemiologist, and professor at the Public Health Foundation of India and member of Karnataka’s technical advisory committee (TAC), said in a post on Twitter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-govt-extends-lockdown-till-june-7-101621622211499.html
22-05-2021||India||Districts modify lockdown as Covid cases surge||Bengaluru: Even as Bengaluru continues to witness a decline in new Covid-19 cases since the last three days, other districts in the state are seeing a surge in infections. In an attempt to control the rising cases, the district administrations have made stricter modifications to the lockdown measures, than what is already been announced by the state government. Officials in the know of the developments said that the state government has given district administrations a free hand to implement strict measures. Officials in the know of the developments said that the state government has given district administrations a free hand to implement strict measures. An analysis of the Covid-19 cases in Karnataka between May 13 and May 19 shows that north Karnataka’s Belagavi reported the highest positivity rate at 61.59%, while the state average is 27.28%. Hassan, Uttara Kannada and Ballari recorded positivity rates of 47.29%, 43.30% and 41.63% respectively. In comparison, Bengaluru’s positivity rate during this period was 22.23%. Karnataka on Friday reported 32,218 new Covid cases and 353 deaths with Bengaluru alone recording 9,591 cases and 129 deaths, according to the health bulletin. Haveri, which reported the highest Case Fatality Rate (4.27%) is under total lockdown from May 21 to May 25. While the state government lockdown regulations allow the purchase of groceries between 6 am and 10 am, every day, in Haveri this provision has been suspended. According to the Haveri DC’s order, people will be allowed to purchase groceries only between 6 am to 10 am on Sunday, during this period. Similar restrictions are already in place in Hassan, Ballari, Raichur, Kalaburagi and Shivamogga.till May 25 morning. Under the new restrictions in these districts, grocery stores, vegetable and fruit stores, hotels, and wine stores have been shut down, while exceptions have been given to the health sector, supply of LPG cylinders, home delivery of food from hotels, in situ construction activities, and ATM and petroleum outlets. However, in Hassan, grocery stores have been allowed to remain open between 6 am till 10 am on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday. Similarly, Chikkamagaluru district administration on Thursday decided to impose a complete lockdown for four days. “All shops, commercial activities, and industries will remain closed during this period during which only emergency activities would be allowed,” Deputy Commissioner KN Ramesh said. He also added that 14-day quarantine has been imposed on people entering the district from other parts of the country and the state. A senior bureaucrat who didn’t want to be named said the decision to give the district greater autonomy was a result of lessons learnt from the teething problems of lockdown announced on April 17. “Districts had different problems. For example, a section in the guidelines had said that people can’t use vehicles to purchase essentials, they need to travel by foot. This works in Bengaluru city, but not in a hill town like Kodagu,” said that official. He further added that the government has taken a note of the increase in Covid-19 cases in the rural parts and the strict measures taken by the district to bring the situation under control. “The district administration knows what their requirements are, and they have been asked to approach the state government for any assistance,” he added. Meanwhile, as the state extended the lockdown till 6am on June 7, home minister Basavaraj Bommai on Thursday said that the police department would ensure tighter enforcement of the lockdown to prevent excessive movement of citizens. “As cases are increasing in rural areas, Deputy Commissioners of various districts have imposed lockdown measures strictly, people should also understand the seriousness and cooperate,” Bommai said. He said that in the coming days measures will be put in place wherein the police can seize vehicles of those indulging in unnecessary movement. “...for instance, in Yadgir there are reports about five people going on a motorcycle to attend a marriage, what should we say, so people will have to cooperate with the police to make the lockdown successful,” he added. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/districts-modify-lockdown-as-covid-cases-surge-101621622210831.html
22-05-2021||India||Centre will ensure K’taka gets adequate share of Covid drugs: Gowda||Bengaluru Union minister for chemicals and fertilizers DV Sadananda Gowda on Friday said demands for various medications from Karnataka have increased amid surging Covid-19 cases, adding that the Centre would ensure adequate allocations are made to the state. Gowda, the member of Parliament from Bengaluru North and former Karnataka chief minister, said the state will get the “lion’s share” in allocations of Covid medicines. “Karnataka has so far received 10 lakh (1 million) vials of Remdesivir as allocated till May 23,” the minister said at a press conference in Bengaluru. “From 23 May till 30 May, Karnataka will get the lion’s share of allocations (of Remdesivir) is what I wish to tell you,” he added.The minister said the shortage of antiviral drug cropped as its demand has increased from 2.3 million in the first week of April and now the government is enabling production of 11.9 million at present. He said the government was increasing capabilities to cater to the demand.Remdesivir, a drug used to treat Covid-19 patients, has been discontinued as part of treatment by the World Health Organisation. However, it has been in high demand in many places across the country, including Karnataka. Acute shortage has also resulted in black marketing of remdesivir, with reports of a single vial being sold for a whooping ₹60,000 making headlines over the past few weeks.Karnataka has witnessed a sudden surge in Covid-19 cases since the beginning of April, which has overwhelmed the already inadequate healthcare infrastructure in the state and forcing the BS Yediyurappa-led government, which ignored the warning of an imminent second wave by the technical advisory committee, to play catch up.On Friday, the state reported 32,218 new cases, taking the active caseload due to Covid-19 to 514,238. It also reported 353 fatalities, which took the toll to 24,207 , according to health department bulletin.Gowda said other medication like Tocilizumab was also in high demand. He said Karnataka has so far been allocated nearly 14,000 vials of this imported drug out of the total of around 100,000 that the Centre has so far been able to procure.“We are getting more imported this week. There is no need to panic,” Gowda said.Karnataka has also seen a spike in Black Fungus or Mucormycosis cases in recent days. According to official estimates, around 100 cases have been reported in the state so far. The primary drug used to cure patients infected with black fungus is Amphotericin B, which is an imported drug.Gowda said the Centre has so far secured around 145,000 vials of Amphotericin B, which are being distributed based on demand. The minister said Karnataka has so far been given enough vials to treat 1,650 patients. However, experts questioned the Centre’s calculation, saying that an infected patients requires anywhere between 20-60 vials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-will-ensure-k-taka-gets-adequate-share-of-covid-drugs-gowda-101621622150786.html
22-05-2021||India||K’taka receives 200,000 doses as vaccination drive for 18+ resumes||Bengaluru A day before starting its vaccination drive for all adults, Karnataka received 200,000 doses of Covishield vaccine from Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII) on Friday. The new arrival takes the total procurements, including Bharat Biotech-manufactured Covaxin, to 1,094,170, according to the state government. “Karnataka will receive 2 lakh doses of Covishield today from (an) order placed by (the) state govt. So far, we have received 12,420,510 doses incl 11,326,340 (10,160,060 Covisheid & 1,166,280 Covaxin) from GoI & 1,094,170 (950,000 Covishield & 144,170 Covaxin) from state procurement,” Dr K Sudhakar, Karnataka’s minister for health, family welfare and medical education tweeted on Friday. The arrival of new stock comes a day before the state resumes the vaccination drive for 18-44 age group. Karnataka’s vaccination drive has seen a steady decline in recent days, mostly due to the shortage of vaccines in the state. According to the daily bulletin of the state health department, around 11,800,761 doses have been administered in the state till 3.30 pm on Friday. Only 2,572,151 beneficiaries have received both doses of the vaccines, according to official data. The state administered 81,268 doses on Friday, which is less than 30% of its own target of inoculating 300,000 persons per day. Dr CN Ashwath Narayan, deputy chief minister and head of Karnataka’s task force on Covid-19, on Friday said there were at least 190,000 people in the state who are scheduled to get their second dose of Covaxin. Karnataka continues to prioritise the second dose as shortages have forced the government to suspend vaccination for other age groups (18-44) at least twice in the last one month. Narayan said there are 170,000 doses of Covaxin available in Karnataka at the moment. Among the 18-44 age group, the state government will first inoculate immediate family members of health workers, transport department staff, auto and cab drivers, street vendors, court officials, media personnel, differently abled persons and APMC workers among other sections as priority before they open it to others, officials said. Meanwhile, several people took to social media to complain about not being able to secure appointment or slots on the Cowin app. Karnataka has proposed to develop software that would be linked with the Cowin app and streamline the process. “From June 1, this portal will be operational,” Narayan said. Karnataka, like other states in the country, are heavily dependent on vaccines to tide over the deadly second wave of infections that has a higher rate of transmissibility and resulted in more fatalities. The southern state has seen its daily Covid-19 infections stabilise at around 30,000 per day as against around 50,000 about two weeks ago. Karnataka reported 32,218 new infections on Friday. It also reported 52,581 recoveries, which has brought down the active caseload to 514,238, according to the health bulletin. The positivity rate continued to remain high at 24.22%. The state recorded 353 more deaths as the fatality rate remained at 1.09%. Bengaluru recorded 9,591 new infections and accounted for 129 fatalities on Friday, the bulletin said. Other districts are on a high alert after a spike in infections and fatalities were reported in rural areas. Ballari, Shivamogga, Tumakuru, Uttara Kannada and Mysuru are among the worst hit, recording 23, 20, 16, 22 and 12 deaths, respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ktaka-receives-200-000-doses-as-vaccination-drive-for-18-resumes-101621622090831.html
22-05-2021||India||Want people in India to know they aren’t alone in Covid fight: US doctor||Dr Ashutosh “Ash” Tewari was himself in an intensive case unit (ICU) for two weeks, battling for life against Covid-19. He then watched his childhood best friend die of the illness after being turned down by multiple hospitals in India that were either running short of doctors or medical supplies.The chair of the department of urology at New York’s Mount Sinai hospital is now determined help India fight the second wave of Covid-19 epidemic that has been described by medical experts as four times more devastating than the first.“I want people in India to know they are not fighting this alone, and we are with them,” said Dr Tewari, who came to the US from Kanpur in the 1990s.Along with Michael J. McCarry, senior vice president of perioperative services, Tewari has led Mount Sinai hospital’s assistance to India.The hospital has sent 25 ventilators, and 100 sleep apnea machines with kits to convert them to ventilators, along with other medical equipment to India through chartered flights in three separate shipments.The hospital has said it also plans to donate 10 Crossvent 3+ ventilators and 15 Medtronic 840 ventilators. The ventilators, oxygen devices and other supplies will be divided into 5 pallets to be shipped to five public hospitals in Mumbai, Delhi, Kanpur, Kolkata and Bengaluru.Dr Tewari’s foundation — The Global Prostate Cancer Research Foundation — has also purchased disposable supplies for 100 patients.Mount Sinai hospital has said this relief effort is specially “dear to his (Dr Tewari’s) heart” as he has seen many relatives and friends suffer and die. He is “personally devastated by what is happening all over India and will do anything possible to help”.Dr Tewari watched his childhood best friend die on WhatsApp, the hospital said. Tewari was on the phone with family, helping them through the process, as to how to get oxygenation and which hospital to go to. They were rejected by multiple hospitals “because there are just not enough doctors or supplies”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/want-people-in-india-to-know-they-aren-t-alone-in-covid-fight-dr-ashutosh-ash-tewari-101621621371312.html
22-05-2021||India||Supreme Court grants bail to rebel YSRCP MP in sedition case||The Supreme Court on Friday granted bail to rebel YSR Congress Party (YSRCP) Member of Parliament Kanmuri Raghurama Krishnam Raju, who is facing sedition charges for remarks causing disaffection towards the Andhra Pradesh government, led by chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy.Raju will have to furnish a personal bond of ₹1 lakh with two sureties of the same amount within 10 days. At the request of the state government, the court has imposed a gag order on the MP, restraining him from speaking about the case in the media. According to the court’s directions, however, the police will have to serve a 24-hour notice to Raju before interrogating him, and Raju’s lawyer will remain present at a distance during questioning. The court has also directed the MP to cooperate with the probe and refrain from influencing witnesses.Raju approached the apex court for bail after the Andhra Pradesh high court on May 15 refused to consider his request, and asked him to knock the doors of the trial court for bail.He was arrested by the state Crime Investigation Department (CID) on May 14. The following day, when his application for remand was to be considered, the Magistrate noticed injuries in his leg. Raju claimed he was tortured in custody by police, but the state denied the charge. A three-member medical board of government doctors ruled he had no injuries. Contrary to this finding, however, the Supreme Court found on Friday that the MP had a fractured toe and injuries in his leg, leading to swelling, contusions and clotting.These injuries were mentioned in a report prepared by a team of three doctors of Army Hospital, Secunderabad, on an order passed by the top court, and the vacation bench of justices Vineet Saran and BR Gavai was prima facie convinced that petitioner may have been ill-treated during custody.The state CID has accused Raju of sedition by pointing to statements made over the past year, when he allegedly incited members of a community, religion or caste to beat and even kill members of another community or religion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-grants-bail-to-rebel-ysrcp-mp-in-sedition-case-101621621011832.html
22-05-2021||India||Cyclone Tauktae: Barge’s missing master booked for ‘negligence’||Mumbai Police on Friday filed an FIR against the captain of a barge that sank in the Arabian Sea after being battered by Cyclone Tauktae for alleged negligence and violating safety rules as the death toll from the powerful storm climbed to 60.Police booked master of the barge P305, Rakesh Ballav, for culpable homicide, causing grievous hurt and negligence.“We have registered a complaint against the captain [of the barge] and others on the basis of a statement given by 49-year-old Mistafizur Rahman Hussain Shaikh, who was part of maintenance crew of the barge,” said joint commissioner of police Vishwas Nangre Patil (Law and Order).Ballav is one of 15 people who were on board P305 and are still missing, four days after Tauktae barreled through India’s western coast.Also Read| Cyclone Tauktae: Maharashtra govt targets Centre over mid-sea mishapAt least 186 people have been rescued out of the 261 on board the barge that sank after the storm hit the Bombay High oilfield on Monday near Mumbai, where some of the country’s biggest offshore oil rigs are located.P305 and two other barges pounded by the cyclone were deployed by Afcons Infrastructure for a contract from state-owned major, Oil and Natural Gas Corporation Limited (ONGC). Both Afcons and ONGC announced compensation for the deceased on Friday.Ballav’s role came under focus after Shaikh accused him and other officials of overlooking weather alerts and failing to take appropriate care despite knowing the lapse could result in deaths.There was no response from captain’s family. Police said no one has approached them from Ballav’s family till now.In his statement to police, Shaikh, a Malad resident, said the barge was anchored near an unmanned platform in Heera oil fields and gale-force winds snapped all anchors of the vessel around 8am on Monday. The vessel had sent an earlier distress signal to a tugboat, which was unable to help.The barge started drifting out to sea and hit a platform at 9.45 am on Monday. This caused water to start gushing in that side of the barge, and the captain sent a distress signal to Navy and other authorities.Afcons Infrastructure said the master of P305 chose to stay in the sea near the platform where it was working, despite receiving instructions for returning to Mumbai harbour in the wake of cyclone warnings. It also said the responsibility of all marine operations lay with the owners, Durmast Enterprises.The “extremely severe” cyclone, the most powerful one to hit the region in over two decades, caused gusts of wind up to 210kmph and nine-metre-high waves as it raced past Mumbai and made landfall in Gujarat on Monday night.Also Read| Cyclone Tauktae maintained intensity even after landfall, affected hit 9 statesOver the last four days, navy rescuers have pulled out 60 bodies – including 11 on Friday – but at least 26 people, 15 from the barge and 11 from a tugboat, are still missing.Coast Guard has alerted fishermen and coastal police to keep a lookout in shallow waters for survivors or bodies of crewmembers.Commander Mehul Karnik, chief public relations officer of the Western Naval Command, said the search and rescue operations on Friday involved the INS Kochi, Talwar, Tejas, Betwa and Beas.Their efforts were augmented by aerial survey undertaken by P8I surveillance aircraft and two each of Sea King, Chetak and advanced light helicopters. Coast Guard units have also joined the search for the missing crew of P305.Navy said that it will deploy INS Survey for underwater searches to locate the wreckage of the barge, and Varaprada.Naval officers said they have widened the search to a rectangular area of around 3,200 square miles (80 miles north-south by 40 miles east-west).The search area, the officers said, leans more towards north of the spot where P305 capsized, as more bodies were found there. The Navy is relying more on visual search and aerial surveillance, but they are also using radars to track lifeboats or inflatable rafts floating in the sea.They added that the possibility of the bodies of some crew members being trapped in the barge could not be ruled out.Also Read| 'No option but to jump into the sea': Survivors recount harrowing escapeAfcons Infrastructure said it will provide compensation that would be a combination of ex-gratia payouts and insurance compensation, and range from ₹35 lakh to ₹75 lakh per family. The compensation would be “equivalent to balance period of service up to 10 years’ salaries” and would be paid to “not only the families of the deceased persons on its direct rolls, but also families of all deceased persons who were employed with its subcontractors,” a statement released Friday said. The company also stated that it will set up a trust to support the education of the children of the deceased.ONGC on Friday also announced that it would extend an immediate relief of ₹1 lakh to the survivors and ₹2 lakh to the families of the deceased and missing crew members of P305.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/barges-missing-master-booked-for-negligence-101621621011294.html
22-05-2021||India||Govt asks Twitter to drop ‘manipulated media’ tag from toolkit tweets||The ministry of electronics and information technology has sent a strongly worded notice to microblogging platform Twitter, for affixing the manipulated media tag to “tweets made by Indian political leaders with reference to a toolkit created to undermine, derail and demean the efforts of the Government against the Covid-19 pandemic”.An official familiar with the matter said that in its communication, the ministry has stated that a complaint has already been made by one of the concerned parties before local law enforcement and the veracity of the toolkit is under investigation.The ministry has stated that Twitter’s decision to use the manipulated media tag appears “prejudged and prejudiced.” “While the local law enforcement agency is undertaking the investigation to determine the veracity of the ‘tookit’, Twitter has unilaterally drawn a conclusion in this matter and arbitrarily tagged it as ‘Manipulated Media’,” the ministry has stated, said the official. “Such tagging by Twitter appears prejudged, prejudiced and a deliberate attempt to colour the investigation by local law enforcement agency.”Also Read| Twitter flags Sambit Patra’s ‘Congress toolkit’ tweet as manipulated mediaTwitter declined to comment. Twitter’s policies, however, clearly state that it can use “deceptively altered media”. “We may label Tweets that include media (videos, audio, and images) that have been deceptively altered or fabricated. In addition, you may not share deceptively altered media on Twitter in ways that mislead or deceive people about the media’s authenticity where threats to physical safety or other serious harm may result,” states the company’s policy. The government’s directive comes barely hours after Twitter tagged a May 18 post by BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra as “manipulated media”. In the post, Patra alleged that the Congress circulated a document that outlined ways to defame Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The BJP alleged the toolkit was aimed at building a biased narrative over the Indian government’s handling of the second wave of Covid-19, and the Central Vista Project. Many top BJP leaders, including its chief JP Nadda and Union ministers Smriti Irani, Ravi Shankar Prasad, Hardeep Puri, and Piyush Goyal, amplified Patra’s tweet.The Congress accused the BJP of concocting the document on Covid-19 to defame the opposition party. It wrote to Twitter on Thursday seeking action against Patra and other BJP leaders for “grossly misusing” the platform. The Congress accused the BJP of indulging in “large-scale dissemination of false information”, which “has the potential to cause social unrest in the country”.The Ministry has termed the “unilateral action by Twitter as an effort to influence the fair investigation process and a clear overreach, which is totally unwarranted”. It further added that the action dilutes the credibility of the platform. “This action not only dilutes the credibility of Twitter as a neutral and unbiased platform facilitating exchange of views by the users but also puts a question mark on the status of Twitter as an “Intermediary.”Also Read| BJP leader names ‘author’ of Congress ‘toolkit’In February, Twitter was locked in a rare confrontation with the Union government after being given orders to block over 1,300 links -- entire profiles as well as posts -- for alleged incitement during the January 26 farm protest-linked violence. The company complied partially, saying that the orders were not consistent with the law, prompting the government as well as legal experts to accuse it of ignoring the rule of law. The ministry then sent a strongly worded notice to comply, asking it to comply with the directive or face penal action. Over 95% of the URLs were blocked by Twitter, but the accounts continue to remain accessible.The ministry on Friday asked Twitter to remove the “prejudicial” tag in the interest of “fairness and equity”.Patra, on May 18, tweeted, “Friends look at the #CongressToolKit in extending help to the needy during the Pandemic! More of a PR exercise with the help of “Friendly Journalists” & “Influencers” than a soulful endeavour. Read for yourselves the agenda of the Congress: #CongressToolKitExposed”.Internet Freedom Foundation trustee Apar Gupta said that matter raises concerns regarding the legal powers invoked to ask Twitter to take down the tag. “A threshold concern arises with respect to the legal power that has been used given that the information technology act may not contain such powers. The directions, if any, need to be clearly anchored within existing law, which is right now, not present. It also raises concerns given that platforms have been asked by MEITY barely two to three backs to contain disinformation regarding the pandemic,” Gupta said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-asks-twitter-to-drop-manipulated-media-tag-from-toolkit-tweets-101621620950673.html
22-05-2021||India||PM Modi warns against black fungus, mourns fatalities||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday warned against the “new challenge of black fungus” and said the country must be prepared to fight the rare and potentially fatal condition that is increasingly being seen in recovering Covid-19 patients. The PM was visibly emotional as he spoke about those who had lost their lives to Covid-19 and called for vaccinations to become a mass movement in the long battle against the viral disease.“In our ongoing fight against Covid-19, a new challenge of black fungus has surfaced. We must focus on taking precaution and preparation to deal with it,” said the PM during a virtual meeting with health workers from his parliamentary constituency, Varanasi.The mucormycosis infection, or black fungus, which some doctors have blamed on the high use of steroids to combat Covid-19, kills more than 50% of patients within days. In some cases, eyes and upper jaws are removed by surgeons to save lives.The Centre on Thursday told the Delhi high court that as on May 19, there were 7.251 cases of mucormycosis in India. Of these, Uttar Pradesh recorded 289.Paying his respects to those who lost their lives during the pandemic, Modi said: “This virus has snatched many people from us. Those who lost their loved ones because of Corona, I pay my tribute and I express my condolences.”The PM also called for special attention to rural areas and highlighted the need to take treatment to the doorsteps of patients to reduce the burden on the health system. “Our mantra will be, jahaan bimar, vahi upchaar (wherever there is illness, there should be treatment). The more we take wellness to the people, the less will be the pressure on our health systems,” he said.He lauded the efforts of doctors, nurses, technicians, ward boys and ambulance drivers. “But this pandemic is so big that despite all the efforts we have not been able to save the lives of our family members.”Modi said Varanasi benefited from the strategy of having micro containment zones, while highlighting “Kashi Kavach” – a telemedicine initiative involving doctors, laboratories and private companies.“Unprecedented pressure on the health system posed a major challenge before us. But the medical infrastructure that came up in Kashi during the last seven years helped us a lot in handling the situation that emerged due to the second wave of Covid-19,” said the PM.“Bringing doctors, labs and e-marketing companies together to provide a telemedicine facility named ‘Kashi Kavach’ is also a very innovative initiative.”The Prime Minister termed the vaccine a ‘safety armour’ against Covid-19 and also urged people to get vaccinated.“Vaccination has provided protection to our frontline workers, who could serve the people. In the coming days, we will be extending vaccine protection to everyone,” he said.Modi also talked about the threat to children and said they needed to be protected in the fight against Covid.“There is a need to protect our children against Covid-19. We have had successes in the past in battling diseases which affect children, and we have successfully dealt with those illnesses and ensured the safety of our children. We must implement best practices and do all we can to ensure children are safe,” he said, specifically pointing to Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s role in succesfully dealing with Japanese encephalitis (JE) , which claimed the lives of thousands of children in UP.“Once, Yogiji cried in Parliament for it... After becoming chief minister, Yogiji, along with the Centre, launched a drive against JE. And we have controlled JE up to some extent...,” he added.Soon after the virtual address, Samajwadi Party president and former UP CM Akhilesh Yadav attacked the Bharatiya Janata Party governments at Centre and the state, saying that the lives of people could have been saved had both focused on arranging essentials for Covid patients instead of indulging in“fake” praise.“People of the state and the country are facing hardships due to the exchange of praises between heads of the country and the state. Had the time spent on fake praises been spent on arranging vaccines, beds and oxygen, lives of many people could have been saved. Condemnable!,” Yadav said in a Twitter post in Hindi.Uttar Pradesh reported 7,682 new Covid cases on Friday, taking its tally to 1,659,212. The death toll in the state reached 18,760 with 172 new fatalities.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-warns-against-black-fungus-mourns-fatalities-101621620890635.html
22-05-2021||India||Mamata Banerjee may fight by-election from Bhawanipore as MLA vacates seat||West Bengal agriculture minister and Bhawanipore legislator Sobhandeb Chattopaddhyay resigned from the assembly on Friday, clearing the way for chief minister Mamata Banerjee to contest a by-election from the constituency she represented twice since coming to power a decade ago.Banerjee took oath as chief minister on May 5 for the third time despite losing her election from the high-profile Nandigram seat to her protégé-turned-rival Suvendu Adhikari. Under the rules, she has to get elected to the House in six months.“My party did not ask me to resign. I was under no pressure. I took the decision as a sincere worker of the Trinamool Congress (TMC) so that Mamata can contest from Bhawanipore again,” Chattopadhyay said after putting in his papers.“Her role in state and national politics is more important right now,” he added.Assembly speaker Biman Banerjee confirmed the resignation.“Chattopadhyay came to my officer a little after 2.30 pm and submitted his resignation. He said it is his voluntary decision. I have accepted it,” he said.A veteran TMC leader, Chattopadhyay was shifted from his traditional seat of Rashbehari in Kolkata to Bhawanipore after Banerjee decided to move to the rural Nandigram seat to take on Adhikari.She lost the election by 1,956 votes but led TMC to a thumping victory in the assembly polls by winning 213 of the 292 seats contested. BJP won 77 and Adhikari is now the leader of opposition.With Chattopadhyay’s resignation, Bhawanipore becomes the sixth assembly seat to fall vacant. The state assembly has 294 seats but polls were held in 292 as two as two candidates at two seats in Murshidabad district died of Covid-19 before elections were held.The Election Commission (EC) has not declared the poll schedule for any of these seats.TMC leaders said Banerjee will decide what role Chattopadhyay will play. He may contest any of the vacant seats.The party may also send him to the Rajya Sabha, replacing Dinesh Trivedi who joined the BJP on May 6. Chattopadhyay, 77, said he is too old to go to Parliament.Like Banerjee, finance minister Amit Mitra also needs to get elected within six months. He did not contest the polls. Mitra earlier represented the Khardah seat, which fell vacant after the TMC’s winning candidate died of Covid-19.On May 17, Banerjee cleared a cabinet decision to form Vidhan Parishad, or legislative council, which she promised before the polls. Banerjee said eminent people as well as veteran leaders who were not nominated for the assembly elections would be made members of the Vidhan Parishad.Vidhan Parishad members can become ministers and civic body members and legislators elect its members.However, according to Article 169 of the Constitution, Parliament has to pass a bill for creation of Vidhan Parishad and the President’s assent is also mandatory. The process may take more than six months.In such a scenario, Mitra could contest any of the vacant assembly seats, TMC leaders said on condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mamata-may-fight-by-election-from-bhawanipore-as-mla-vacates-seat-101621620830557.html
22-05-2021||India||Goa court acquits former Tehelka editor in rape, sexual assault case||A fast-track court in Goa on Friday acquitted Tarun Tejpal, 57, the former editor of Tehelka magazine, of charges of rape and sexual assault levelled by a former colleague during a conference at a five-star hotel in Goa in 2013.The case hit the headlines for weeks amid a renewed focus on crimes against women. It surfaced a year after the rape and murder of a 23-year-old student on a moving bus in Delhi provoked national outrage, and prompted the government to pass tougher laws to check such crimes. The allegations against Tejpal also triggered a debate on harassment of women at workplaces, and underreporting of such cases over fears of job losses and persecution.Tejpal faced the trial under India Penal Code’s Sections 376 (rape), 354 A (sexual harassment), 354 B (criminal assault with intent to disrobe a woman), 341 (wrongful restraint), and 342 (wrongful confinement).Additional sessions judge Kshama Joshi acquitted Tejpal, days after his lawyer Rajeev Gomes, 47, died of Covid on May 12.Tejpal maintained he was falsely accused of sexual assault, while Francisco Távora, the special public prosecutor in the case, called the judgement a serious setback, and said that the state was likely to file an appeal.“[We] will be going through the reasons assigned by the judge. We are seriously aggrieved and that is why we will be preferring an appeal against it,” Távora said.Tejpal said after the verdict the past seven-and-a-half years have been traumatic for his family. “In an awfully vitiated age, where ordinary courage has become rare, I thank her [the judge] for standing by the truth,” he said in a prepared statement. “...we have dealt with the catastrophic fallout of these allegations on every aspect of our personal, professional, and public lives,” he added.Tejpal also said they felt the “boot of the state”but cooperated fully with the Goa Police and the legal system through hundreds of court proceedings. He thanked the court for “its rigorous impartial and fair trial” and for its thorough examination of the CCTV footage and other empirical material on record.The investigators in 2013 said there were no cameras in the elevators even as they studied footage from CCTV cameras in the hotel. Tejpal had also referred to an “unfortunate incident” between himself and the colleague in a leaked e-mail to Tehelka’s management in 2013. He described the incident “bad lapse of judgment” in the e-mail.In another note, later, however, he said that he was being “framed”.In his statement following his acquittal, Tejpal said his family’s privacy should be respected. “I will make a comprehensive statement at an appropriate time in the future.”Tejpal also paid a tribute to Gomes. “Seldom does a long-fought vindication arrive hand in hand with profound heartbreak. Last week, my trial lawyer died of Covid. Dynamic and brilliant at 47, he was on the brink of a scintillating career as a criminal lawyer at the national level. No person fought harder, and with greater skill to reclaim my life and reputation. As a family, we owe Rajeev a profound and permanent debt.”Gomes’s son, Sean, was present in the court and thanked it for passing a fair and just judgement. “...my father put in a tremendous amount of hard work and dedication into this case,” he said.Távora blamed Tejpal’s attempts to get himself discharged in the case among the reasons for the delay in the trial. “The accused wanted discharge in the case and went up to the Supreme Court and got a stay. That is why the trial was stopped for a while for two years. Then it was resumed in 2019. Since August 2019, it has been going on. Since September 2020, it has been going on a day-to-day basis.”The trial in the case began in September 2017 before it was stalled as Tejpal moved the high court, and then the Supreme Court against the framing of charges against him, and for his discharge. The Supreme Court ordered that the trial be completed by December 2020. It later extended the deadline citing the pandemic. The pronouncement of the judgement was again adjourned on Wednesday as power supply was disrupted due to Cyclone Tauktae.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tarun-tejpal-acquitted-in-2013-sexual-assault-case-101621585008423.html
22-05-2021||NA||Highlights: UK records 2,829 new Covid-19 cases, 9 more deaths||The Covid-19 caseload in India has increased to 25,772,440 on Thursday after hundreds of thousands of people continued to contract the viral disease. The death toll surged to 287,122 after more than 3,000 people succumbed to the disease in a span of 24-hours.Meanwhile, mucormycosis or a black fungus remained a cause of concern as more people found to be suffering from the rare life-threatening disease. On Thursday, the Centre asked states to declare mucormycosis a notifiable disease as the number of confirmed people in the country reached 7,250.Click here for complete Covid-19 coverageWith black fungus, reports of white fungus cases are also surfacing and that is further adding to the woes of medics. Though there has been no official confirmation about such cases, various media reports claimed Bihar has reported around four cases of white fungus, which according to the health experts is more dangerous than Mucormycosis.Meanwhile, in the United States, New York City passed a milestone of 4 million first doses and administered more than 7.75 million total shots.Unvaccinated people in the US should keep wearing masks in public, said Anthony Fauci, President Joe Biden’s top health adviser.Japan approved the Moderna Inc. and AstraZeneca Plc, bringing the number of inoculations allowed in the country to three. The Group of Seven nations will next month discuss ways to recognise vaccination certifications internationally.The European Union moved forward with a plan for EU-wide vaccination certificates, boosting chances of a summer tourism rebound.Follow all the updates here:4,129 fresh cases take Pune's Covid-19 tally to nearly 989,000Pune's Covid-19 caseload climbed to 988,916 on Friday after 4,129 fresh cases were reported in the last 24 hours, an official told news agency PTI. As many as 96 people succumbed to the disease, taking the district's death toll to 15,853, the official added.UK records 2,829 new Covid-19 cases, 9 more deathsThe United Kingdom on Friday recorded 2,829 new cases of the Covid-19 disease and 9 more deaths, taking the caseload and death toll to 4,457,923 and 127,710 respectively, according to official figures. According to news agency ANI, UK's Covid-19 reproduction number falls between 0.9 and 1.1. Jammu and Kashmir reports 3,848 new Covid-19 casesJammu and Kashmir reports 3,848 new Covid-19 cases, 4,466 recoveries and 43 deaths in the last 24 hours.Total cases 2,63,905Total recoveries 2,10,547Death toll 3465Active cases 49,893Telangana logs 3,464 Covid-19 cases, 25 deathsTelangana on Friday reported 3,464 Covid-19 cases, taking the tally to over 5.47 lakh, while 25 fatalities pushed the toll to 3,085. Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) accounted for the most number of cases with 534, followed by Rangareddy (243) and Medchal Malkajgiri (219), a health department bulletin said.Corona curfew in Bhopal extended till May 31Corona curfew in Bhopal extended till May 31, the decision has been taken in a meeting of Bhopal Crisis Management Team.Maharashtra reports 29,644 new Covid-19 casesMaharashtra reports 29,644 new Covid-19 cases, 44,493 recoveries and 555 deaths in the last 24 hours.6 more die of Covid-19 in Noida, 3 in GhaziabadUttar Pradesh's Gautam Buddh Nagar recorded six more Covid-19 deaths that pushed its toll to 412 while Ghaziabad had another three, pushing its fatality count to 405, official data showed on Friday.129 deaths, 6,225 virus cases in RajasthanRajasthan recorded 129 deaths and 6,225 coronavirus positive cases on Friday, taking the state’s fatality count to 7,475 and infection number 9,03,418, according to an official report.Uttarakhand reports 3,626 new Covid-19 casesUttarakhand reports 3,626 new Covid-19 cases, 8731 recoveries and 70 deaths today.Total cases 3,07,566Total recoveries 2,33,266Death toll 5600Active cases 63,3733,848 fresh Covid-19 cases, 43 deaths in J-KJammu and Kashmir on Friday recorded 3,848 fresh COVID cases that took its tally to 2,63,905 while 43 more fatalities pushed the death toll to 3,465, officials said.Will have to temporarily halt vaccination drive in Delhi for 18-44 group from Monday: AtishiWill have to temporarily halt vaccination drive in Delhi for 18-44 group from Monday owing to vaccine stocks getting over: AAP MLA AtishiKarnataka extends Covid-19 lockdown from May 24 for 14 daysKarnataka extends Covid-19 lockdown from May 24 for 14 days till 6am on June 6.Chandigarh administration announces weekend Corona curfewChandigarh administration announces weekend Corona curfew from 5am on Saturday (22nd May) to 5am on Monday (24th May).'No time to be tired' - German clinic fights severe Covid-19 cases"We're not overbooked, but there are still too many coming in," a young nurse says as she arms herself with protective equipment: bonnet, gown, goggles, a fine particle mask and two pairs of gloves over her arms.EU advises against administering second dose of AstraZeneca shot to those who developed blood clotsEuropean Medicines Agency, the European Union watchdog, advised medical professionals to not administer the second jab of AstraZeneca shots to anyone who had developed blood clots from the first jab of vaccines like AstraZeneca and Johnson and Johnson. Jharkhand records 2,056 new cases of Covid-19, 60 fatalitiesJharkhand recorded 2,050 new cases of Covid-19 on Friday, taking the total number of cases to 3,24,884. 60 new fatalities were also recorded, the death toll now stands at 4,714, reported PTI.Dr Fauci says the need to administer booster dose may depend on Covid-variantsDr Antony Fauci said on Friday that not all Americans will be needing a booster dose this summer, adding that it is still “possible” that an additional shot would be needed later this year to ward off possible infection, reported Associated Press.Haryana administration sets up drive-through vaccination centre in PanchkulaHaryana: Panchkula administration sets up drive-through COVID19 vaccination center at Parade Ground, Sector 5 pic.twitter.com/FsrdAlEVVyDelhi reports 3,009 new Covid-19 cases in last 24 hoursDelhi reports 3,009 new Covid-19 cases, 7,288 recoveries and 252 deaths in the last 24 hours.Active cases: 35,683Total recoveries: 13,54,445Death toll: 22,831Record 20.61 lakh Covid tests done in a day in India; daily positivity rate dips at 12.59%: GovtMore than 20.61 lakh tests for detection of Covid-19 were conducted in a span of 24 hours in the country, the highest-ever tests done in a single day, while the daily positivity rate has declined to 12.59 per cent, the Union health ministry said on Friday.Union government to ramp up production of Amphotericin-BHealth Ministry along with Department of Pharmaceuticals, and the Ministry of External Affairs are ramping up domestic production of Amphotericin-B drug, used to treat Black Fungus, through five manufacturers reported ANI. Five more manufactures have been given license to manufacture the drug in the country.Asia facing a vaccine crunch, cautions Red CrossThe International Federation of Red Cross urged pharmaceutical companies and governments to work together in order to ensure better supply of Covid-19 vaccines in Asia, which has now become the epicentre of the global pandemic, and is registering a record number of cases. Covid-19 curfew extended till May 31 in Goa, reports ANIGoa chief minister Pramod Sawant extended the on-going curfew in Goa till May 31, reported news agency ANI. The Goa government had imposed curfew-like restrictions for 15 days starting from May 9. Leader of Chipko Movement, Sunderlal Bahuguna, succumbs to Covid-19Celebrated environmentalist and leader of Chipko Movement, Sunderlal Bahuguna succumbed to Covid-19 at AIIMS Rishikesh on Friday.Many vaccination centres in Delhi will close today, says Satyendar JainDelhi health minister Satyendar Jain said many vaccination centres in the capital will be closing today since the available stock of Covisheild vaccines for the 18-44 age group and that of Covaxin vaccine for the same age group will be used up soon, reported ANI.Karnataka scheduled to receive 2 lakh doses of CovishieldKarnataka is scheduled to receive 2 lakh doses of Covishield today. So far the state has received 1,24,20,510 doses, comprising of 13,26340 doses (1,01,60,060 Covisheid and11,66,280 Covaxin) from the Union government free of cost and 10,94,170 (9,50,000 Covishield and 1,44,170 Covaxin) via state procurement, Karnataka Health Minister told news agency ANI.India's Covid-19 death toll rises by 4,209 new deathsIndia's Covid-19 infection tally crosses 26 million-mark with 259,551 fresh cases. The death toll rises by 4,209 new deaths.States declare mucormycosis a notifiable diseaseSeveral states over the last 24 hours declared mucormycosis, a life-threatening viral infection in Covid-19 patients, a notifiable disease following the central government's advisory on Thursday. Check the full list hereSingapore's Covid-19 caseload rises by 41Singapore has reported 41 new cases of the coronavirus, taking the total number of infections in the nation to 61,730, news agency PTI reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-coronavirus-latest-updates-death-toll-india-world-may-21-2021-101621559755794.html
22-05-2021||Today's||The 2022 battle for Lucknow begins||India’s politicians have shifted focus from the east and the south to the north. Even as the country battles the devastating second wave of Covid-19 infections, both political activity and political competition have intensified in states going to polls early next year. And nowhere is this battle most intense, and arguably most crucial for the future of Indian politics and democracy, than in the state of Uttar Pradesh (UP). With 80 Lok Sabha seats; 403 assembly seats; a population of over 200 million; some of the most dismal health and education indicators in the country; high degrees of unemployment and massive outmigration for work, the future of India’s political trajectory, aspirations to meet sustainable development goals, and nature of economic growth rests substantially on what happens in and to UP.With elections scheduled for only February-March next year — and nine months is an eternity in Indian politics — it would be foolish to attempt predicting possible outcomes in the state. But there are two ways to examine the state of political play in UP at this moment, as parties begin strategising, carving out political and social coalitions, and investing in their messaging to gear up for the polls.The first way to assess UP’s political dynamic is using the conventional framework for understanding the state. Within this analytical scheme, five factors will play a crucial role — leadership, caste, religion, organisation, and alliances. On leadership, Yogi Adityanath — he was appointed chief minister (CM) after the 2017 elections, as opposed to being projected as the face before the polls — has, over the past four years, established his own personal brand in the state. This brand rests, in turn, on two elements. The first is maintaining a strongman Hindutva leader image — from “anti-Romeo” squads to legislation against interfaith marriages; from cow protection as one of the State’s top political objectives to a pattern of persecution of dissent; from the focus on the Ram Temple at Ayodhya to presiding over a power structure that has barely any Muslim presence in a state with over 40 million Muslims, Yogi Adityanath clearly believes that the mandate of 2017 was for the Hinduisation of UP’s polity, and thinks of this as a politically appealing platform. But alongside this, the second element of this image is projecting himself as a modern CM — from investment summits to advertising any global report (even when it may not be an endorsement), from claiming success over improved law and order (even when these claims may not stand up to factual scrutiny and there has been a valorisation of extra-judicial methods, including encounters) to projecting himself as a “clean” no-nonsense administrator. Whether this leadership model has the sanction of UP’s citizens is a key question for 2022. Challenging him will be the Samajwadi Party (SP) leader Akhilesh Yadav — whose tenure does evoke a degree of nostalgia for his focus on infrastructure and initiatives, but who remains handicapped by his Yadav-centric party and seeming unwillingness to put in the hard grind required of politics; Mayawati — whose vote base is shrinking with every election, and who is seen as having a behind-the-scenes understanding with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP); and Priyanka Gandhi — who is in charge of the UP Congress but has neither shifted to Lucknow nor has been declared as the party’s CM face nor has been able to build the organisational might required to take on the BJP. And then there will be the identity-related questions that will determine UP’s electoral dynamic. The BJP’s ability to maintain its multi-caste alliance will be on test here — at a time when there are tensions between Brahmins and Thakurs among its upper caste base (with the CM’s Thakur identity seen as dictating its governance priorities); between upper castes and those belonging to other backward classes (OBCs) over power-sharing; between upper castes (particularly Thakurs) and Dalits and OBCs and Dalits; within OBCs on the question of sub-categorisation; and between the government and Jats, especially of western UP, over farm laws. The Opposition’s ability to go beyond its traditional vote base will also be on test here. Will the SP manage to go beyond its Yadav-Muslim base and win support of other segments? Does the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) still enjoy the absolute support of its Jatav base, and can it expand this to include other Dalit sub-castes as well as those from other social groups? Does the Congress have any core base left at all? All of this is also, of course, tied to the question of religious polarisation. The BJP’s strategy of consolidating Hindu castes (barring Yadavs and Jatavs) has yielded dividends in the 2014 and 2019 Lok Sabha polls, besides the 2017 state polls. Has this Hindu consolidation deepened, or have fractures begun to emerge? On the other side, all opposition parties have relied on Muslim consolidation — but the Muslim vote has either got fragmented, or been insufficient to propel any of them to power. The fourth conventional factor is organisational and financial strength — where the BJP is miles ahead. And the fifth is alliances. To consolidate the anti-BJP vote, the SP and Congress tied up in 2017 — with the latter dragging the former down with it. In 2019, the SP and BSP collaborated — but neither did neat vote transfers happen nor was their collective social coalition enough. A wide opposition alliance may consolidate anti-BJP votes but also runs the risk of being seen as catering to Muslims, which then allows the BJP to consolidate Hindus. All these factors will remain relevant in the polls next year. But there is a second framework to examine the UP political landscape — as India’s first major post-Covid-19 election. To be sure, there have been elections in Bihar, Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Assam, Kerala and Puducherry — but this was, for most part, before the staggering scale of the suffering inflicted by the second wave of Covid-19 infections. UP is a key battleground of the current Covid-19 war. Anecdotal reports and independent assessments clearly suggest that the health system in the state has collapsed, even as the virus has spread across rural areas. Testing is hard. Hospital admissions are harder. Basic medical support in terms of oxygen support and drugs hasn’t reached the poor, especially in rural areas. Official figures do not capture the scale of either the cases or the deaths — now symbolised by bodies floating on the Ganga. The return of migrants from India’s urban centres has added to economic distress. All of this has meant that despite a somewhat stifled political environment, political space in UP is opening up. There are more voices criticising the government, both at the state and central level, and questioning the CM. There also appears to be, in parts, an erosion of trust in Prime Minister Narendra Modi.And that is why both the management of Covid-19 and the pace of vaccination in UP will be big political variables that may well intersect and alter the older categories of politics of the state. As politicians turn towards the battle for Lucknow, the themes and messages of the campaign, and the salience of the public health crisis, will probably give as much insight into the quality of Indian democracy as the outcome itself. letters@hindustantimes.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-2022-battle-for-lucknow-begins-101621694401608.html
22-05-2021||Today's||The wise words of Manmohan Singh||Just before he lost power, Manmohan Singh said history would be kind to him. I’m sure it will, but it’s too early for such history to be written. However, what the good doctor did not know is that in just seven years, things would so drastically change we would reflect on his views, not just with fondness and nostalgia, but as the hallmark of a wisdom we’ve sadly forgotten.This struck me when my friend, Seema Chishti, sent me a link to an interview Singh gave the BBC in 1999. His glory days as finance minister were over. He was now the Leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha. No one could have imagined he might one day become prime minister. This was, therefore, an interregnum. It was also a time when he spoke out honestly, boldly and said what we needed to hear. Watching that interview was like rediscovering Singh.Listen to the things he said. They won’t just appeal to your heart and mind. They answer a deeper need. They fill the void that surrounds us. First, on what our politics has been reduced to.“Politics has ceased to be a vehicle of purposeful social change. It has become a ticket for power. Power for the sake of power. Not power as an instrument of doing something good for society.” And he placed the blame squarely on our leaders. “Many politicians practice a very divisive politics for narrow sectarian reasons. It may be good politics for the moment but it can be a sort of disaster for our country.”So what do we need? “I do believe we need a new type of politics. A politics of frankness, a politics which tells people things straight as they are. We cannot fool our people … I do believe for the last 50 years, politicians have been taking our people for a ride and I feel there is a great danger if the gap between what politicians say, promise and do grows the way it has been growing.”At the heart of this new politics, he saw new leadership. “Leadership is the crux of the matter. Leaders have to be leaders. They have to be pace-setters, not people who follow what is momentarily in the popular mind, look at the opinion polls every day and adjust their thinking to that. Without a measure of strong conviction Indian leadership cannot deliver the goods.”And, he bluntly added, we need new thinking. “We need a change in the mindset of all those who make critical ruling decisions of our national life, be it in politics, economics or social engineering. We need a big change in thinking at all levels but more so in those who are our leaders.”So what does this mean for politicians? “Politicians in our country do not adjust their thinking to the changing needs of our time. Our politicians feel whatever they learn in their childhood is adequate stock for them to pronounce on everything in the world. I think there’s contempt for knowledge. Unless our politicians value knowledge they cannot be purposeful instruments of social change.”But what if none of this happens? Indeed, what if things get worse? Well, Dr. Singh did not mince his words.“We should not assume there is a divine destiny which will ensure India continues to flourish and prosper, howsoever we mismanage our affairs. Great nations like the Soviet Union have perished and disappeared from the surface of the earth. If the Indian polity is not well managed we ought to realize a similar danger could overtake us too … I am not saying this is on the cards right away or it’s inevitable but if we continue to mismanage our economy, if we continue to divide our country on the basis of religion, caste and other sectarian issues, I think there is a great danger of that sort of thing happening. It’s a serious danger.” Karan Thapar is the author of Devil’s Advocate: The Untold StoryThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-wise-words-of-manmohan-singh-101621691458385.html
22-05-2021||Today's||Restoring the spirit of cooperative federalism||Recently, two prominent Indians commented on the handling of the coronavirus pandemic in different ways. Taken together, they seem to sum up where we have reached in the debate on this crisis, and point to the direction in which we should travel now.First, Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief, Mohan Bhagwat has said, “Following the first wave, we all lowered our guard — people, government, administration alike.” He added that this is no time for a blame-game. The sarsanghchalak is close to the seat of power in the government — so at last a prominent person, identified with the government, has admitted that it must share the blame for what has gone wrong. This is surely a significant moment, suggesting that now is the time to stop arguing over where we have gone wrong, and who has been at fault in order to concentrate on preparing for a possible third Covid-19 wave. The sarsanghchalak said we have to be prepared for that wave “like the rock against which waves crash only to recede into the ocean”.The containment of the virus is, now, to a considerable extent, in the hands of chief ministers as well. The central government has to play a role in holding them together. So Prime Minister Narendra Modi will have to carry all the chief ministers with him if India is to stand united like a rock, and practise cooperative federalism in letter and spirit. This means the prime minister and chief ministers must listen to each other. Modi is a highly skilled communicator. He can galvanise the crowds at rallies, speak like a statesman when addressing the nation, and use the unique intimacy that can be conveyed by radio to broadcast his ‘Mann Ki Baat’ programmes. But how good a listener is he?That brings me to the second intervention. After the prime minister telephoned Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren to enquire about conditions in the state, Soren complained, “He only spoke his mind. It would have been better if he’d talked and listened about the work.” At the end of the week, West Bengal’s chief minister Mamata Banerjee had a similar complaint following the prime minister’s meeting with district authorities.That criticism does confirm an impression the prime minister gives of being someone who prefers to talk rather than listen. He is known to have listened to very few people before taking two of the most crucial decisions of his time in office — demonetisation and the imposition of the national lockdown. It is, of course, just as important for chief ministers to listen to the prime minister. They must also listen to their people, rather than imposing draconian restrictions and threatening arrests as has been the case in Uttar Pradesh. If the prime minister and chief ministers are to be cooperative federalists, electoral defeats will have to be taken with good grace by the central government. In Bengal, the unprecedented provision of armed central paramilitary police for every Bharatiya Janata Party legislator; the arrest of four Trinamool Congress leaders while two former party leaders, now with the Bharatiya Janata Party, accused in the same case, are left untouched; and the bias of Bengal governor, Jagdeep Dhankhar, does not signal cooperative federalism. In Delhi, where the BJP faced a humiliating defeat, the home ministry chose April 27, the height of the oxygen and beds crisis, to bring into effect the legislation which undermines the elected government of the city.Cooperative federalism is a great idea, and is the need of the hour. Unfortunately, it is easier said than done.The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/restoring-the-spirit-of-cooperative-federalism-101621690980362.html
22-05-2021||Today's||On Covid, why the Centre needs a communication strategy||Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi is universally acknowledged as a communicator par-excellence. But ever since he came to power in 2014, the government’s communication strategy has been a subject of intense discussion and drawn polarised responses.The government’s disdain towards large sections of Indian mainstream media, which several of the ruling party’s leaders sees as associated with the old Congress “ecosystem” and disparagingly refer to as “Lutyens’ Media”, is well-known. This was, further, manifest in the government dispensing with the conventional post of a media adviser in the Prime Minister’s Office and discontinuing the practice of taking journalists as part of the PM’s entourage on official foreign visits. PM Modi has also not held a single press conference, so far, in his seven-year tenure.The impression conveyed was that Mr Modi believed that he had been elected as PM despite mainstream media, which he saw as having carried out a sustained campaign against him for a good 12 years since the Gujarat Riots of 2002 (incidentally, the Opposition disagrees and blames the same media for enabling Modi’s rise, in a classic instance of how the same situation can be perceived so differently by opposing sides). PM Modi preferred to communicate directly with citizens, going over the heads of mainstream journalists via social media, radio or digital vehicles such as My Gov India and the Narendra Modi App. A substantial part of his messaging was also reserved for political speeches, which given our system of perennial elections, offered ample occasions.If election results and popularity polls were indices, PM Modi’s media strategy has worked just fine. Though there may have been disenchantment among some affluent sections of society — traders, businessmen, intelligentsia — his core constituency swelled as the 2019 general elections proved. There was a loss of sheen in his international image, because of a set of domestic initiatives which were inadequately understood outside, and because of the tendency to tar all right-wing leaders with the same brush as Donald Trump, especially during Covid management. But India’s stature had risen substantially on the global stage for PM Modi to worry about this. With international institutions and economists projecting double digit economic growth, India appeared to have weathered the Covid-19 storm better than many had predicted. So, it all seemed hunky-dory till the second tidal wave of Covid-19 arrived and in no time engulfed the nation.Also Read | How different regions are faring in Covid-19 vaccinationWhile no one could have foretold the scale and ferocity of the second wave, the government was caught totally unprepared. In 2020, the virus arrived in India later than in the West. That gave us time to get our act together, though it was far from anything close to what was necessary. However, India fared better than many other countries on one front -- that was communication.The PM led this effort from the front -- addressing the nation and building morale through various creative means (albeit mocked by his critics) such as the Janata curfew and applauding the work of corona warriors. There were daily briefings by the government. The Arogya Setu App, though not fool-proof, was rolled out to trace infections. Transparent dashboards were created to track the spread of the disease, recoveries and deaths and resources were mobilised — hospital beds, doctors and health care workers. The National Disaster Management Act was invoked and a nationwide lockdown was imposed.Despite severe dislocations and disruptions, there was continuous central monitoring and advisories were issued from the home ministry based on real time feedback on the situation across the country. The nation went into a war mode even as it was dealing with a serious face-off with China on the northern frontiers.Cut to 2021, and it is a different world altogether. There is a veritable carnage across cities and the countryside that does not bear repetition. Scenes of death and devastation are being relentlessly beamed on national and international media. There is not a family which has not been touched by the virus in one form or the other. Almost every Indian has lost someone in their circle. Along with the smell of funeral pyres, public angst is blowing in the wind. The government is at the receiving end of the most mordant criticism it has faced since its formation. Some are already calling this the worst year in independent India’s history.Also Read | Covid-19 death tolls are likely a ‘significant undercount’, says WHORumours fly thick and fast in any crisis. It is often difficult to sift fact from fiction. If the problem is localised, it may be possible to isolate information flow. But, when the country is ablaze, remaining silent is not an option, especially in this digital age when news travels at the speed of light. No one understands this better than PM Modi. Therefore, his relative silence at this juncture is mystifying.The PM has been interacting with chief ministers and officials, with the latest ones being the conference with district magistrates on Thursday, and his interaction with frontline workers in Varanasi on Friday, where he expressed his deep sorrow for the losses during this wave. But this lacks the direct connect with citizens that the PM is so skilled at. His de-facto second-in command home minister Amit Shah has barely been seen or heard in public, at least not since the West Bengal campaign when both were at the forefront.Yet, it is not as if the government is immune to criticism. Its sensitivity is reflected in the reactions of prickly bureaucrats and haranguing party spokespersons. There is some defence of the government put out by peripheral spin doctors and those who still repose faith in the leadership of Narendra Modi. But, they are neither cogent nor effective. By all accounts, the Modi government appears to be losing the war of narratives.In every crisis — small or big, be it in a family, organisation or government — there will be those descending to fish in troubled waters. Some of them may be pure mercenaries, while others are simply opportunists. In corporate crises, agents are often planted by competitors or may come from internal and external stakeholders unhappy with the management. In the same way, when it comes to the government, there could be the opposition or external forces working to undermine its efforts. This is part of the game and has to be dealt with professionally. There is little point in raising conspiracy theories and living in denial.Also Read | Cyber attacks on critical infrastructure: Is India ready?The primary responsibility of leaders during a crisis is to instil confidence among the people. The bridge between the two Cs — of crisis and confidence — is the third C, communication. Effective communication itself is built on a set of 3 Cs — it has to be continuous, consistent and credible. This is a full time job and cannot be left to a motley set of amateurs. Becoming reactive and petulant is half the game lost. It may be difficult to modify public opinion but it is possible to moderate it.Thus, instead of writing angry rejoinders to foreign newspaper editors, our embassies and consulates would do well to reach out to important members of the media and influencers to put the official position in perspective. This can be done by the press officers at our foreign missions or even with the help of expert media relations agencies.A similar approach needs to be followed at home. It would be naive to believe that everyone will come around to support the government’s stand. But even if one manages to get across a point sideways, it can create the bandwidth for addressing the real issues. Media training of bureaucrats and ministers is a good place to start - but not if it creates an impression that something insidious is afoot publicly. Influence has to be earned, not demanded.The government needs to have a communication strategy not for its own survival but for the protection of its citizens from untoward distraction and sabotage in a national calamity. There is no reason to be apologetic about “perception management”. Wrong perceptions cannot only bring down organisations and governments but also harm citizens, whose fate is intrinsically linked to tragedy, by derailing the rescue efforts.Therefore, the Prime Minister must speak up in the interest of the close to 1.4 billion Indians who have reposed their faith in him, and give them a realistic view of how we got here, where we are now and what lies ahead. This will serve both the regime and citizens well.Sandip Ghose is a political observer and commentator on current affairs. He tweets @sandipghose The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/on-covid-why-the-centre-needs-a-communication-strategy-101621589749848.html
22-05-2021||Editorials||Battling a new epidemic||India’s Covid-19 pandemic now appears to have an epidemic within it. The Union government told the Delhi High Court on Thursday that at least 7,251 people have mucormycosis. Typically, the number of people who get this disease over an entire year is a fraction of the current caseload across the country. The fungus that causes the disease is found in soil and decaying organic matter such as fruit and vegetables, and is as ubiquitous in the natural environment as the immunity to it among healthy people. But that has changed this year as Covid-19 swept the country, exposing endemic problems in how India and Indians approach health care. These are spread over a wide spectrum of issues involving hygiene, a lack of understanding of best practices, a tendency to self-medicate and even misinformation.Doctors and the government experts say mucormycosis infections — also called black fungus cases — are occurring in people who have high blood sugar and have been given strong doses of steroids or immunosuppressants to calm an immune system kicked into overdrive by Covid-19. For more than 12 months now, medical practitioners have known how to choreograph an immune response so that a patient is not unnecessarily vulnerable while stopping immune cells known as cytokines from destroying tissues in the lungs and elsewhere. In multiple press conferences, the government’s experts have urged doctors to not prescribe immune-suppressing steroids too early, and for more attention to be given to people with high blood sugar that makes them vulnerable to opportunistic pathogens. Those warnings now appear to have been inadequate.While the exact triggers of the mucormycosis outbreak will slowly be worked out, anecdotal evidence offers several explanations. People have been self-medicating with steroids, which are cheap and are seen as lifesavers in Covid-19; India has a large number of people with uncontrolled diabetes; and India’s medical facilities — particularly in smaller towns and villages — lack adequate hygiene. While the second and third factors have more to do with structural problems, the first highlights the need for citizens to go by proper medical advice and for the government to make it available. It also brings into focus the lack of proper checks on drugs sales, an old concern in a country known for overuse of antibiotics. Both the pandemic, and now the epidemic, have shown the acute harm caused by endemic problems. Don’t let these persist.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/battling-a-new-epidemic-101621602829281.html
