25-05-2021||News||Jal Jeevan mission goes digital in five states||Water is a global story, but a remote village in southern Rajasthan, ringed by the rocky Aravali mountain range, has its own — one that goes back generations.“Our forefathers would tell us that each generation had to move to a different mountain side just to be close to a water source,” said 50-year-old Dhanaram Garasia, the sarpanch (village head) of Gharat, an arid tribal region in the state’s Sirohi district.“Close” denotes a distance of roughly three kilometres. That’s where the nearest water source — a stream — lies in this sparsely populated mountain village of the tribal Garasia community.For 25 tribal households of Upli Uberia Phali, a hamlet in Sirohi, the stream to the other side of a craggy cliff is a lifeline. It is also a rich mine of granite and marble. The water there is often fetid, contaminated with silica dust from the mines. But that’s all there is.Garasias, mainly settled in arid southern Rajasthan, are a Scheduled Tribe. The tribe has three sub-clans — Rajput Garasia, Dungri Garasia and Bhil Garasia. Residents of Upli Uberia Phali mostly belong to Bhil Garasias, who also act as carriers of water for other tribes for a living in a water-scare region.Over the years, authorities have made several attempts to provide sustainable water to the small tribal community. They were largely unsuccessful. The reasons were diverse, from dearth of appropriate technologies to something as basic as the lack of a motorable road to move men and machinery.Over 120 million Indian households, such as those in Upli Uberia Phali, lack access to clean water near their homes, the highest in the world, according to UN-Water. The World Bank estimates India loses nearly 6% of its gross domestic product or GDP because of water crisis and environmental degradations.India has had several public programmes to bring clean water to its people, such as the National Drinking Water Mission launched in 1986, but the goal of providing drinking piped water to every household has got a special impetus under Prime Minister Narendra, who announced the Har Ghar Jal programme (water for every home) under the Jal Jeevan Mission in 2019.Also Read | Inside India’s new plan to deliver waterFour months ago, residents of Upli Uberia Phali got one of the India’s first Internet-of-Things (IoT)-based smart water management plant as part of the Har Ghar Jal mission.To monitor the rural drinking water supply systems, the Jal Shakti ministry has taken the digital route to use sensor-based IoT devices to effectively monitor the implementation of Jal Jeevan Mission (JJM) in more than 600,000 villages, according to official data.The Jal Jeevan Mission in collaboration with Tata Community Initiatives Trust (TCIT) and Tata Trusts recently completed pilot projects in Uttarakhand, Rajasthan, Gujarat, Maharashtra, and Himachal Pradesh.The transformation Water crises mean drudgery for women, who bear their worst brunt. Before the smart water system was installed in the hamlet, Kukibai, a housewife who goes by one name, would trek a daily route of nearly three kilometres through hilly jungles, not once but twice or sometimes thrice, to get to the shallow spring.Like her, womenfolk of the village used to make three to four trips every day, metal vessels clutched to their waists, foraging for the day’s fill. On bad days, they had to go further to neighbouring village, Malera, six kilometres away. It was hard toil. “My back aches, my arms go numb,” Megibai, another resident, says.Residents are in awe of the IoT-based smart water plant, which supplies piped water to each of the 25 households.Dhanaram, the sarpanch, said when a plan to get piped water to the hamlet reached the local panchayat office, villagers initially didn’t believe him even though the state’s chief minister Ashok Gehlot had himself announced it.Installing the plant was an engineering challenge. The first step for engineers was to conduct a “resistivity test”, a hydrological exercise to determine the most sustainable site for a borewell.Also Read | Five underground silos to tackle Mumbai’s flooding woes“The village didn’t have a motorable road. That was a key challenge in moving machinery and men,” says Ganpat Singh Kumpawat, an official of Tata Community Trust Initiative. Villagers then worked to create a car-wide road, clearing boulders and jungles.The Jal Jeevan Mission has been conceived in a way that villagers contribute 10% of the capital cost, according to Bharat Lal, the chief of the Jal Jeevan Mission in the Jal Shakti ministry.The technology On the outside, the smart water plant is seemingly simple, consisting of a borewell and an overhead 7000 tank. Inside, a range of sensors trigger operations and relay data in near real-time to a national dashboard in the Jal Shakti ministry.Most locations in the rural water network lack easy access to a power grid for running IoT devices. “It requires using a combination of technologies such as radio frequency and cellular for communications and using solar or battery-based powering mechanisms for difficult to access locations,” said Siddhant Masson, Project Lead of IoT-based smart water management at TCIT.The IoT-based water plant in Sirohi is a first-of-its-kind source to tap remote monitoring and control system in a completely off-grid rural environment. It runs on solar and battery only.Also Read | Chandigarh admn puts water tariff hike on hold till next yearOperations are high-tech and automated. It has five chip-based sensors that show realtime data on a computer inside the plant. The plant has a mobile internet connection and an internet gateway. The main sensor calculates how much water goes into each of the five supply lines that multiply into 25 different piped connections. “It’s technically called an FM sensor. It helps us detect leakages and faults,” says Suresh Kumar Meghwal, an official.A second sensor in the tank gives out readings on chlorination levels, turbidity and particulate matter, which together take care of quality of drinking water. For piped water projects like these, sustainability is key issue.A groundwater sensor constantly monitors the depth at which water level is in the borewell. “The main utility of a smart water management plant like this one is to be able to monitor water quality and detect overexploitation, which is not possible otherwise,” Meghwal says.While these technical parameters are overseen by Meghwal and his team, the overall guardianship of plant is with a team of local women headed by Kukibai.They are the lead members of the village’s “pani samity” or water council, which keep an account of how much water is drawn and consumed. They collect ₹50 every month for each user, which goes into maintenance.The smart water plant has acquired a sacred status. “Every month, we perform a puja for its wellbeing. We believe it must be worshipped to keep it happy,” Kukibai says.(This is the second of a four part series on India’s water crisis and the ambitious Jal Jeevan Mission)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/jal-jeevan-mission-goes-digital-in-five-states-101621926790129.html
25-05-2021||Noida||As Ghaziabad ramps up testing, cases decline||In the last nine days, the Ghaziabad health department has ramped up testing over the preceding few weeks and found fewer Covid-positive cases, officials said.Experts say this indicated that the district had crossed the peak.Between April 15 and April 30, it had conducted an average of 5,506 daily tests (1,828 RTPCR, 3,678 antigen) giving 684 average daily cases. In the next fortnight, it conducted only 3,658 daily average tests (1,707 RTPCR, 1951 antigen) that yielded 738 average daily cases.Then the target was increased to at least 2,900 daily RTPCR tests and 5,200 daily tests.From May 16 till May 24, it has already conducted 5,228 daily average tests (2,974 RTPCR, 2,254 antigen) tests and returning 329 daily average cases - an average positivity rate (proportion of tests returning positive results) of 6.3%. Currently, the positivity rate in May stood at 10.36%, down from the peak of 19.3% on May 6.“For about a month starting mid-March, we were short on testing kits, which is no longer the case. These numbers indicate that the spread of infection has come down,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer. “This is primarily due to partial curfew. Early treatment through faster detection also helped.”Initially, the partial corona curfew began at 8pm on April 30 and was due to end at 7am on May 4 but was extended several times. It is now extended to stay in place till 7am on May 31.The officials familiar with the development also said that testing has also been increased in rural areas which was about 26% of overall testing till last week and now it is about 30% at present.“Since the positivity is less in rural areas, increase in testing in such segments will also result in decline in positivity,” the officer added.The World Health Organization (WHO) recommends a positivity rate of 5% or lower over two weeks to consider the infection under control in a region.“The declining figures indicate that the peak is over. Had the curfew been implemented earlier; it would have reduced number of cases and deaths. The recovery of patients in ICUs and on ventilators is still major concern,” said Dr Ashish Agarwal, president of Indian Medical Association (Ghaziabad). “It is also vital that vaccination is increased and within next couple of months, the vaccination coverage should cover 50-60% of the city population ahead of any probably third wave,” he added.According to state control room records, there were 102 Covid-related deaths during the period starting March till December 31, 2020. But the tally on May 24 stood at 420.He said that in case the government decided to do away with the partial Corona curfew, strict enforcement of Covid protocols should continue.“It is vital that enforcement continues. Otherwise, people will again flout guidelines and it may happen those cases may start to increase again. During the present second wave, the cases spiked at rapid pace and also declining fast,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/as-ghaziabad-ramps-up-testing-cases-decline-101621967350919.html
25-05-2021||Chandigarh||Despite curfew, snatchers, burglars have a free run in Ludhiana||Even though the district was under a 17-hour curfew and full weekend lockdown for the last two weeks, the restrictions seem to have been no impediment for snatchers and thieves.Around 40 cases of snatching, vehicle theft and burglaries were reported between May 10 and 23, while curfew was in place from noon till 5am to rein in the surging Covid cases in Ludhiana.This, when the police claim to have been on 24x7 patrol to ensure compliance of the curbs.As many as 15 residents fell prey to snatchers, who took away their mobile phones and other belongings, and another 14 cases came to fore where burglars broke into properties and decamped with valuables. Three of these took place during the day time.While the city came to a halt during the curfew hours, thieves even managed to make off with nine parked vehicles.The maximum number of cases, four each, was reported in areas under the Division Number 7 and Salem Tabri police stations.Police also found women actively involved in snatchings. On May 20, a Sector 32-A resident, Poonam Sharma, 42, had reported to the police that a woman, along with her male accomplice, snatched her gold chain at knifepoint near Vardhman Mills.According to investigations, most of the snatchings took place in the interior lanes, as people remained off the main roads due to the restrictions.In some relief, during these two weeks, police managed to cut short the theft spree of six gangs, including one of highway robbers that targeted truck drivers. Yet, most cases remain unsolved.Box attached||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/despite-curfew-snatchers-burglars-have-a-free-run-in-ludhiana-101621966991679.html
25-05-2021||Chandigarh||Teen assaulted, kidnapped in Jagraon over neighbourhood rivalry, three arrested||Police have arrested three men for assaulting and kidnapping a 15-year-old boy at Jagraon’s Anarkali Bazaar on Monday.The accused, Sagar Kalyan, Inderpreet Singh and Sunny, all residents of Rani Wala Khuh, Jagraon, attacked the victim, Sachin Kumar, 15, also of the same area, over a neighbourhood rivalry, police said.Kumar, who works at a garment shop in Anarkali Bazaar, had stepped out of the shop on Monday, when the trio attacked him with sharp-edged weapons.They forcibly took him away on a motorcycle, while relentlessly beating him up and eventually dropped him near the new grain market, before fleeing. On being informed, the City Jagraon police reached the spot and rushed the victim to a hospital.In his statement to the police, the teenager said the accused had a rivalry with some residents of his colony, and also nursed a grudge against him after spotting him talking to them. He alleged they also snatched his silver chain and ring.ASI Chamkaur Singh, who is investigating the case, said the accused were arrested within a few hours of the attack.They have been booked under Sections 365 (kidnapping), 379-B (snatching), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/teen-assaulted-kidnapped-in-jagraon-over-neighbourhood-rivalry-three-arrested-101621966871598.html
25-05-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana’s daily Covid cases drop further, but deaths go up||The district’s daily Covid-19 cases fell below the 500 mark for the first time in 40 days with 461 people testing positive in the last 24 hours.The number of daily deaths, however, saw an uptick with 19 patients losing their lives to the virus, 26% higher than Monday’s 15 fatalities.Tuesday’s cases were 9% lower than 507 a day ago. At 482, it was on April 15 last when the daily infections were less than 500. Since then, the cases shot up, reaching the peak of 1,729 on May 9, forcing district authorities to clamp a 17-hour lockdown from May 10.Case fatality ratio on the riseThe restrictions on public movement have yielded results in the form of cases slumping by 73% in the subsequent 16 days. However, the fatalities’ graph has yet to show a major downturn. Instead, the case fatality ratio (CFR) – the proportion of deaths against positive cases – continues to climb on a weekly basis.The CFR in the week before the lockdown (May 3-9) was 1.4% with 140 deaths against 9,405 cases.While the infections came down to 8,800 in the first week (May 10-16) of the restrictions, the case-death ratio shot up to 1.9% with 170 casualties. The subsequent week (May 17-23) was worse, with the CFR spiking to 2.9%, as 154 of the 5,223 patients testing positive died.Active cases slip furtherOn a positive note, with the district adding more recoveries on Tuesday, the active cases dropped to 7,133, against 7,804 on Monday.Of the 81,986 people contracting the infection in Ludhiana so far, 72,945 have successfully beaten the virus – a recovery rate of 88.9%, ahead of the state average of 87.8%. Among the 7,133 patients recuperating at hospitals and in home isolation, 64 are on ventilator support at various health facilities.District’s death toll crosses 1,900 markThe latest fatalities pushed the district’s Covid toll to 1,908, highest in Punjab.Fourteen men and five women were among those who died on Tuesday, with a 30-year-old resident of Kundanpuri being the youngest.The oldest to die was a 69-year-old resident of Civil Lines. A whopping nine of the total 19 deceased were in their 50s, while four among those who died were aged between 60 and 70. Three each were in their 30s and 40s.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhianas-daily-covid-cases-drop-further-but-deaths-go-up-101621966691481.html
25-05-2021||Other||Tributes paid to departed AMU faculty members and doctors||Agra : In a bid to honour the contributions of faculty members and doctors who passed away recently; the faculty members of the department of medicine, Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College (JNMC), Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) held a condolence meeting on Tuesday. Prof Anjum Mirza Chugtai (department of medicine) recalled how the deceased Prof Shadab Ahmad Khan (Former Chairman) lost his life while working tirelessly to provide care for patients. Speaking about the work of late Prof Mohammad Shoaib Zaheer for the development of the department; Prof Chugtai said, “The demise of these faculty members is a big loss to the medical fraternity”. He extended condolences to families of the deceased and read the condolence letters sent to sent to Nargis Alam, wife of Prof Shadab Ahmad Khan and Fatima Zaheer, wife of Mohammad Shoaib Zaheer. Prof Chugtai also paid homage to deceased retired faculty members, Prof Arif Siddiqui, Prof M Mobashir, Prof Sifat Afzal and Prof Abu Qamar Siddiqui and mourned the demises of sisters and brother-in-law of Prof Shahzad Faizul Haque and wife of Prof Khwaja Saifullah Zafar. During the meeting, Prof Chugtai also grieved the demise of his mother, who passed away at the age of 90. Prof Shahzad Faizul Haque who was also present at the meeting recalled his association of over 40 years with late Prof Shoaib Zaheer. “I was batch mate of late Prof Shoaib Zaheer in MBBS and MD and was appointed as a lecturer with him and Prof Shadab Khan,” he said adding that the demise of Prof Shoaib Zaheer and Prof Shadab Khan is a personal loss. Prof Haque added that all faculty members of the department stand with the families of the deceased to provide them with all the support. Dr M Aslam (Associate Professor, department of medicine, spoke about the support and guidance he received from Prof Shadab Khan during student life and after his appointment as a faculty member. Dr M Uwais Ashraf (assistant professor, department of medicine) elaborated how both Prof Shadab Khan and Prof Shoaib Zaheer were always there to support||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tributes-paid-to-departed-amu-faculty-members-and-doctors-101621966390806.html
25-05-2021||Other||Locals in Chitrakoot using social media to help tribals||Lucknow: When Nathu Kol, a tribal of Karwi block of Chitrakoot district failed to get medicine for his ailing wife, he sought helps from a local resident who shared Kol’s appeal for help in the local social media group. Acting swiftly on the message, a group of locals arranged the medicines and drove to Kol’s village to hand them over. A group of locals in Chitrakoot district are using social media to arrange rations, vegetables, medicines and emergency help for people living in tribal pockets of the district. The group began its work when the Covid-19 cases spiked again in late March. With the help of Parhit Seva Sansthan, an NGO, the group arranges help for people living in tribal areas. Anuj Hanumant of Parhit Seva Sansthan said, “We started arranging help for people in April when the government machinery was exhausted with rising number of Covid-19 cases. We started with by delivering dry rations to people in tribal pockets and slowly expanded from there.” Reportedly, the livelihood of the tribals was affected badly due to restrictions imposed in the wake of spurt in Covid-19 cases. To reach out to tribals in need, the group uses social media groups. “As very few tribal families have smart phones, we added as many locals as possible, including businessmen, students and journalists who use smart phones in tribal areas so that they could inform about people needing help,” said Hanumant. “We started with one group which has now expanded to four groups with more than 300 members,” he added. When the group receives a request for help from tribals, it arranges whatever is required and ensures that it is delivered to the family. The group claims to have given food and other help to over 1000 tribal households in the past two months. “We also seek support from the district administration, specially in case of medical emergencies for tribals,” said Anuj.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/locals-in-chitrakoot-using-social-media-to-help-tribals-101621966150990.html
25-05-2021||Other||Head constable dismissed, 2 others held for kidnapping accused in dacoity case||New Delhi: A Delhi police head constable has been dismissed from service after he and his two associates allegedly kidnapped a dacoity accused and hid him at the Jamia Nagar police station in south-east Delhi, the police said on Tuesday.The 25-year-old victim, Varun, was rescued from the police station itself where he was confined without the knowledge of other police personnel, said RP Meena, deputy commissioner of police (south-east).“The head constable, Rakesh Kumar, has been arrested and dismissed from service,” Meena said.The head constable’s two alleged associates, Amir Khan and Mukesh Kumar, too have been arrested. While Khan is a police informer with a criminal record, Mukesh Kumar is a Delhi Home Guard personnel, the officer said.The kidnapping came to police’s notice after they received a PCR call on May 15 about a woman waiting in Sarai Kale Khan with ₹1 lakh as ranson money.Her brother was kidnapped and the abductors used his mobile phone to demand a ransom of ₹3 lakh, but the deal was settled for ₹1.8 lakh. But the police call was made before the money could exchange hands.The Sarai Kale Khan police registered a kidnapping case and began searching for Varun. They got the hint of his location after a photo of the kidnapped victim showed police chairs and tables in the background.The police eventually rescued Varun from Jamia Nagar police station where he was allegedly kept captive by the head constable and Khan.What emerged was an unusual story.“Earlier this year, Varun and his associates robbed a person in East Delhi’s Gandhi Nagar. Varun’s share of the loot was ₹1.5 lakh,” said the DCP.One of Varun’s associates, Anubhav, happened to mention this to Khan, who was the head constable’s informer. The policeman and Khan allegedly decided that if they kidnapped Varun, they could recover the robbed money from him and share it among themselves.So, the duo allegedly roped in the home guard jawan Mukesh Kumar in the plan and used his car to carry out the kidnapping.Once the police sorted out the kidnapping case, they also ended up solving the Gandhi Nagar dacoity case, in which a police case was registered earlier but the crime was not cracked. The DCP said that ₹1.4 lakh of that money has been recovered from Varun’s home and a search is on for his associates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/head-constable-dismissed-2-others-held-for-kidnapping-accused-in-dacoity-case-101621966033091.html
25-05-2021||Other||Covid curbs extended till June 3 in Jharkhand||RANCHiThe Jharkhand government on Tuesday decided to extend the lockdown in the state by another week during which interstate, interdistrict movement of people would continue to remain shut. The restrictions, which first came in force on April 22 with stricter measures introduced from May 13, were to end 6 am on May 27. After Tuesday’s decision, all these restrictions would continue to be in force till 6 am on June 3.The decision was taken at a meeting of the state disaster management committee chaired by chief minister Hemant Soren, a statement from the CM office said. “The Swasthya Suraksha Saptah (lockdown) has been extended till 6 am on June 3. All the restrictions which are currently in place would continue to be in force,” the statement said. The officials said mandatory e-paas system for travel within the city from 7am to 2 pm, when essential services are allowed, would continue to remain in place. However, government employees, media persons, employees of big companies and industrial units have been exempted from the e-pass system. Their office IDs would be enough would be considered as pass for their travel, the statement said. The government has also decided to open its Secretariat, with 33 per cent attendance in all its departments. However, all officials from the level of joint secretary and above are expected to attend office regularly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid-curbs-extended-till-june-3-in-jharkhand-101621961410719.html
25-05-2021||Chandigarh||64 black fungus patients in Haryana not infected by Covid: Vij||Haryana health minister Anil Vij on Tuesday said there are at least 64 patients in state undergoing treatment for black fungus even though they were not infected by Covid-19.Stressing on the need of extensive research to ascertain the causes behind black fungus that had infected over 450 people in Haryana by Monday, Vij said that as per a study it was found that 213 black fungus cases, while undergoing treatment for Covid did not even require medical oxygen.“People with no history of Covid or who were not on oxygen support during Covid treatment are suffering from black fungus and it is a matter of concern,” he said, asking the Centre and scientists to look into these findings.He added that of 413 patients of black fungus who were part of the study, 79 were not diabetic. Vij said 110 patients of black fungus were not given steroids and 213 were among those not on medical oxygen therapy during Covid treatment.“So, there is an urgent need of research to ascertain causes of mucormycosis (black fungus),” Vij said in a tweet and a press statement.TWO MORE DIE OF BLACK FUNGUS IN KARNALMeanwhile, two more deaths caused by mucormycosis (black fungus) were reported in Karnal on Tuesday, taking the district’s death toll to six.As per information from the district health department, four new cases of black fungus were reported in district in the past 24 hours and number of infected persons has reached 28.They were suffering from Covid and were admitted at Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College and Hospital, Karnal.Dr Jagdish Dureja, director of the hospital, said the two people who died have been found infected with black fungus after their death.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/64-black-fungus-patients-in-haryana-not-infected-by-covid-vij-101621960872243.html
25-05-2021||Chandigarh||Dalal seeks probe by commission of inquiry against BJP-JJP regime||Former Haryana minister Karan Singh Dalal on Tuesday sought appointment of a commission of inquiry to look into the alleged acts of omission and commission of the BJP-JJP regime in state during the ongoing pandemic.Dalal, who submitted a representation in this regard to the Haryana governor, accused the state government of failing in tackling black marketing of medicines and shortage of hospital infrastructure during the pandemic.“Haryana has also borne the brunt of the epidemic where lakhs have been affected and thousands have died, mostly without proper medical care and attention. In fact, the second wave has exposed the hollow claims of the Haryana government regarding everything being normal and under control. No set Covid protocol was followed and there was persistent shortage of medicines, beds, ventilators and oxygen in hospitals which led to hoarding and black marketing,” the Congress leader said.Dalal alleged that a blunder was committed by the state government when it decided to use industrial oxygen for medical purposes. The outcome has opened Pandora’s box as incidence of new life-threatening diseases such as black fungus have been seen.‘ALLEGATIONS BASELESS, PREPOSTEROUS’Rebutting Dalal’s allegations, a government spokesperson said that the observations made in the representation were baseless and preposterous.“The Haryana government has not only been on its toes right from day one but has also taken a large number of preventive measures in anticipation to avert the catastrophe caused by Covid-19. That is why the fatality rate in state has remained around 1 % and the recovery rate has been around 95%,” the spokesperson said.The spokesperson said that a provision of 13,949 oxygen beds and 5,350 ventilator beds has been made in state. “Haryana is not only the first state to conduct a door-to-door survey in the rural pockets but the campaign of test, track and treat ensured that the pandemic was contained well in time,” the spokesperson said.The spokesperson said Dalal’s comments regarding use of industrial oxygen were unscientific. “The industrial oxygen was converted to medical grade and then used in hospitals,” the spokesperson said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dalal-seeks-probe-by-commission-of-inquiry-against-bjp-jjp-regime-101621960751502.html
25-05-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana to purchase 20 lakh smart meters: State power minister||Haryana power minister Ranjit Singh on Tuesday said that 10 lakh smart meters were purchased of which 2.75 lakh have been installed in Gurugram, Faridabad, Karnal and Panchkula.He said that the department will soon purchase about 20 lakh smart meters to ensure more transparency in electricity bills.Singh said there will be no surcharge on electricity till the lockdown is in place in state and electricity security of four months has been deferred for one year.He said that 236 teams of about 1,700 members have been constituted to conduct power theft raids in industries, brick kilns, shopping malls and resorts across state.He said that ever since he took charge of the power department, about 2,600 power theft cases have been detected after conducting raids in the field and accordingly fine has been imposed on the defaulters which has generated the revenue of ₹536 crore in the power sector.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-to-purchase-20-lakh-smart-meters-state-power-minister-101621960692300.html
25-05-2021||Chandigarh||Refrain from wasting public money on Coronil: Haryana AAP||Criticising the BJP-led Haryana government for “wasting public money on unscientific treatments like distribution of Patanjali’s Coronil kits”, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) unit of Haryana said the state government should utilise the funds to purchase more ventilators and create adequate oxygen plants for hospitals in state instead.State health minister Anil Vij had on Monday said that one lakh Coronil kits will be distributed free of cost to Covid patients to speed up their recovery. Vij had also said the cost of Coronil kits will be borne by Patanjali and the Haryana government’s Covid relief fund in 50:50 ratio.In a joint statement, head of AAP medical cell in Haryana, Dr Sarika Verma and Rajya Sabha MP Sushil Gupta said, “The Drug Council of India has not approved Coronil as a medical treatment for Covid and the government should refrain from wasting taxpayers’ money on it.”The statement said the party will request Vij to make all medical expenditure on the advice of the ICMR. The state government should improve the health infrastructure by increasing the number of tertiary care centres in every district instead of spending it on products which have no medicinal value.“There is shortage of Amphotericin in every city of Haryana. Hospitals in Gurugram, Faridabad, Ambala and Hisar are struggling to get adequate medicines to treat patients. We request Vij’s intervention to airlift required injections from foreign countries and utilise taxpayer’s money to save people’s lives,” AAP leaders said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/refrain-from-wasting-public-money-on-coronil-haryana-aap-101621960690643.html
25-05-2021||Chandigarh||Nalagarh-based pharma unit making fake Covid drug vials sealed||The drug control authorities of Haryana and Himachal Pradesh have sealed a pharmaceutical unit in Nalagarh for allegedly manufacturing fake remdesivir injections in large quantities. The fake drugs were seized in Haryana and found floating in a canal in Punjab.The Haryana Police said that an FIR was registered at the Ambala police station on April 21 after police seized 24 remdesivir vials from the possession of four accused.Working on this information, 11 accused were arrested during the investigation. They were selling the vials to people at exorbitant rates.Police traced the manufacturing unit, Alfin Drugs Pvt Ltd, owned by one Dilpreet Singh in Nalagarh, and sealed it along with the drug control authorities.Total 673 fake remdesivir injections were recovered, of which 423 vials were seized from the arrested accused. The remaining 250 were recovered on Monday from the unit which was subsequently sealed.During the course of the investigation, connection of these accused have been found with remdesivir injections that were thrown in the canal at Salempur village police station in Chamkor Sahib, Punjab.Further probe is underway and we are trying to arrest other members of the syndicate, police said, urging people to inform police about black-marketing of Covid-19 medicines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/nalagarhbased-pharma-unit-making-fake-covid-drug-vials-sealed-101621960574246.html
25-05-2021||Chandigarh||128 Covid fatalities reported in Haryana||Haryana on Tuesday recorded 128 fatalities and 2,817 new cases of Covid-19 while 6,720 patients recovered in the past 24 hours, according to the health bulletin.It was for the first time in the past many weeks that the new cases count was below 3,000 even as 50,545 samples were taken in the past 24 hours.The fatality rate rose to 1.04% on Tuesday when the death toll mounted to 7,735.Of total 128 deaths, the highest 16 people died in Hisar, followed by 11 in Jhajjar, nine in Rohtak, eight each in Gurugram, Karnal, Panipat, Sirsa and Bhiwani. Jind, Kaithal, Yamunanagar, Kurukshetra and Ambala recorded five fatalities each.Similarly, Gurugram recorded 220 new cases, Faridabad 102, Sonepat 143, Hisar 295, Ambala 124, Karnal 197, Panipat 94, Rohtak 121, Rewari 205, Panchkula 174, Kurukshetra 67, Yamunanagar 162, Sirsa 208, Mahendergarh 83, Bhiwani 125, Jhajjar 122, Palwal 32, Fatehabad 77, Kaithal 45, Jind 163, Nuh 20, and Charkhi Dadri 38.The bulletin stated that there are 27,779 patients in home-isolation and the active cases in state were at 34,088.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/128-covid-fatalities-reported-in-haryana-101621960517445.html
25-05-2021||Chandigarh||Covid vaccine wastage of Haryana is 2-3%||The Covid-19 vaccine wastage in Haryana has been brought down to 2-3% as per the latest data Centre has released, said additional chief secretary (ACS, health) Rajeev Arora.Earlier, the wastage percentage of Covieshield was 6% and that of Covaxin was 10.2%, prompting the Haryana health department to take corrective measures.“The vaccine wastage percentage was relatively higher in the data released by the Centre as there was data mismatch and the districts have rectified it,” Arora said.The data mismatch was corrected and subsequently the wastage percentages dropped in case of Covishield from 6% to 3.1% and that of Covaxin from 10.2% to 2.4%, he said.“So, the average wastage percentage is between 2-3%,” Arora added.Mission director, National Health Mission (Haryana) Prabhjot Singh, along with the state immunisation team, held two orientation programmes with officers of the health department involved in vaccine administration of all districts through video-conferencing.Thereafter, the districts with high wastage were identified and separate consultation was given to them. Arora said districts which were high on vaccine wastage were Hisar, Palwal, Nuh, Kaithal, Rohtak and Bhiwani.Arora said 53.72 lakh vaccine doses have been presently administered in state. Among the best performing districts are Gurugram (6,34,610 vaccine doses), followed by Faridabad (5,00,600), and Ambala (3,94,162).At least 2,07,892 healthcare workers (HCWs) have been administered first dose of the vaccine and 1,33,828 HCWs the second dose. Among the frontline workers (FLWs), 1,64,609 FLWs have been administered the first dose and 75,740 FLWs the second dose.Among people above 60, and those falling within the age group of 45 to 60, 32,70,712 people were administered the first dose of vaccine and 7,74,105 the second dose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-vaccine-wastage-of-haryana-is-23-101621960394426.html
25-05-2021||Pune||12-year-old drowns at construction site||In a tragic incident, a 12-year-old boy was found dead in a waterhole at an under construction building site of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) in Kharadi on Monday afternoon. The deceased boy has been identified as Anand Dattatray Shelke (12), a resident of Thite Vasti slums located in the immediate neighbourhood. According to the Kharadi police, a limited portion of the area has been dug up while no other construction activity was in progress at the entire site. The dug-up area had accumulated rainwater and three boys from a neighbouring slum had come to the site evading the security guard and entered the water. Two of them managed to come out while another got trapped inside the silt in the waterhole. Sensing trouble, the duo alerted the security guard who immediately dialled the police. A search was carried, and he was found dead due to drowning. His body has been sent for postmortem at Sassoon General Hospital. Chandan Nagar Police Station in charge Sunil Jadhav said, “We have lodged an accidental death related case and investigation is on to find out what is being constructed by PMC. The incident took place at around 1.30 pm when the trio entered the waterhole without the knowledge of the watchman.” Assistant inspector Bhalchandra Dhavale said, “His parents are poor and are freelance labourers, Anand and his two friends came to the site at around 1 pm who were spotted by the security guard who immediately asked them to leave. The boys left the spot but returned again and quietly went into the waters. The guard was having lunch when the incident took place, and he was informed about it by two surviving boys.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/12yearold-drowns-at-construction-site-101621960210626.html
25-05-2021||Pune||GST deputy commissioner among two killed in e-way mishap||A deputy commissioner-level officer of the Goods and service tax (GST) department from Mumbai was among two people who died in a collision between an SUV and a truck along the Pune-Mumbai Expressway stretch in Kamshet area of Pune on Tuesday morning. The deceased were identified as GST deputy commissioner Abhijeet Ramling Gawle (45), his friend Shankar Gaura Yetnal (45), his wife Shilpa Gawle (40) and their driver Pandit Khandu Pawar (37), all residents of Mumbai, according to the police. The accident occurred at the 76km mark along the expressway around 8 am when the Gawle family and their friend were travelling through Pune to their native place in a white Toyota Innova Crysta registered in Ratnagiri. “From what we have gathered so far, it looks like their driver tried to get past two vehicles from the middle lane and while overtaking, he rammed into the back of a truck. The passenger side traveller (GST deputy commissioner) and the one sitting behind him were killed while the driver of the car and the one sitting behind him were injured,” said constable Viraj Kamthe of Kamshet police station. A case under relevant sections of Indian Penal Code and Motor Vehicle Act was registered at Kamshet police station. Police Naik Mithun Dhende is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/gst-deputy-commissioner-among-two-killed-in-e-way-mishap-101621959910630.html
25-05-2021||Pune||Two bodies found floating in canal in Phursungi||Fire brigade officials from Kondhwa fished two bodies –a male and a female from the canal near the Sonarpul spot in Phursungi gaon at 7.30 am on Tuesday morning. A missing complaint in connection with the incident has been registered with the Hadapsar police. The fire brigade officials found the floating body in the irrigation canal behind after they were informed about it by a police constable, said Prashant Ranpise, PMC chief fire officer. “The bodies have been handed over to the police after it was recovered by our staff. The bodies were floating on the canal and people passing through the area saw the bodies which led to a huge crowd gathering around the spot,” he said. The Hadapsar police maintained that it could be a case of suicide but had no leads in connection with the corpses. Both the corpses are reported to be in the age group of 40-45, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/two-bodies-found-floating-in-canal-in-phursungi-101621959070543.html
25-05-2021||Pune||SPPU students panic after results declared without practical grade||Some students of the Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) panicked after they saw a ‘F’ grade next to their practicals in the results declared by the university’s examination department on Tuesday. Several students reported that they are not able to see the internal marks given by the college and practical marks whereas some received a ‘fail’ or an NA’ remark in their mark sheet. This technical snag is affecting their online application for the second semester exams starting next month. “After I completed my exams through the student login id, I tried to check my result, but my college internal marks were not shown on it. Also, at one of the practical subjects it was showing NA, if the practicals are not conducted due to Covid pandemic then why the NA remark is given. It is all confusing for us and I am worried whether I will be able to appear for the next semester exams,” said Pratik Karade, a second year Bachelor of Science student. Currently, the first semester exams are underway where more than 10.5 lakh students are appearing for 3,700 subjects in the online mode. The exam which began on April 10 is being conducted of 50 marks with multiple-choice questions (MCQ) method in online mode. The university’s SPPU Edutech Foundation is conducting the exam. It was instructed to all affiliated colleges of SPPU that they should conduct practicals and internal tests before June 15 and start submitting their marks to SPPU. The results which are declared by SPPU are only showing marks of the written online exams, and before the subjects having practical marks are either showing NA or a fail remark. As the colleges were closed due to the Covid pandemic, no practical sessions were held for students and majority of the colleges have not yet sent their internal marks to the university. “Students are in a state of confusion and also worried about their exams subsequently their future career. Most of the students are now applying for higher studies courses once they finish the second semester the admission process would start. But if they are declared fail or not given internal marks, it will impact on their results and further to get the admissions. This issue is due to the lack of coordination between SPPU and college administrations which needs to be improved,” said Kuldeep Ambedkar, a student and president of Students Helping Hand organisation. SPPU’s examination and evaluation department has given a clarification about the issue saying that these results are temporary and are given only for the reference of the students. “The results which are declared now are temporary results just for the students to know their marks in the online written exams. Once we get the internal marks and practical marks from all the colleges, we will declare the final results of both first and second semester combine. Students need not worry about their results, or any other issue related to the exam,” said Mahesh Kakade, SPPU examination and evaluation department head.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/sppu-students-panic-after-results-declared-without-practical-grade-101621958950649.html
25-05-2021||Other||Mayor’s letter to Union health minister asks for permission to buy 2.5 million Covishield doses||PUNE In a bid to provide Punekars with the Covid-19 vaccines, first and second dose, Pune mayor Murlidhar Mohol has written to Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan, requesting for at least 2.5 million doses of Covishield. Mohol has also made a similar request to the Serum Institute of India (SII), to which they have responded, asking the city to get clearance from the central and state governments.In the letter, Mohol stated, “We the representatives of Pune, with the help of the administration, are working hard to supply the necessary medical aid, but as the population of the city is about 50 lakh (5 million), we are running short of the available facilities. The third wave is yet to come and it is forecasted that it will affect the younger generation, and I think this is more serious. Now, we can say that vaccination is the only weapon in our hand to fight against the coronavirus. It is the only antidote available to us to survive. Vaccination drives are being conducted in the city on large scales. But as compared to the population of the city the number of the vaccines we receive, is less and that is why we cannot reach each and every person in the city.”The letter added: “With reference to the above mentioned subject we are in correspondence with Serum Institute of India to provide us at least 25 lakh doses of Covishield vaccines. Pune Municipal Corporation is ready to buy 25 lakh doses of Covishield vaccines and we will be adhering to all the terms and conditions of payments. We are ready to buy vaccines for citizens. The Central Government of India has 50% shares of vaccines produced in India and the State Government and private hospitals the remaining 50 per cent. It is my humble request to you to grant us the permission to buy the vaccines directly from the Serum institute of IndiaReplying to the letter sent by the mayor, SII executive director Dr S S Jadhav said, “Cyrus Poonawala, chairman of Serum Institute, is keen to help the Pune Municipal Corporation. He also wants to give priority to Pune. However, as per the guidelines of the Central Government, the company can only supply vaccines to the Centre, state governments and private hospitals. Therefore, permission should be obtained from the Central Government to supply vaccines to Pune.”Vax on campus @ Magarpatta cityMeanwhile, vaccination for corporates on campus began, with Noble hospital at Magarpatta city. Today, 200 doses of Covishield were given to staff of Magarpatta City, in Hadapsar. “On the first day, 200 vaccine doses were given and gradually the number will increase to daily 1,000 doses. It will also cover the corporate employees and residents inside the city,” said Dr H K Sale, executive director, Noble Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mayors-letter-to-union-health-minister-asks-for-permission-to-buy-2-5-million-covishield-doses-101621957570571.html
25-05-2021||Other||Now, drones to help keep Ganga clean in Varanasi||In a novel step, the Varanasi administration on Tuesday deployed four unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) or drones to ensure regular monitoring of Ganga ghats in the temple town.Inaugurating the facility, chief minister Yogi Adityanath said the step has been taken to ensure that no one dumps any sort of waste in river Ganga anymore.“These drones are connected to big TV screens at Kashi Integrated Command and Control Centre (KICCC). They will send live pictures to the centre where a team will regularly monitor the river banks. Whenever somebody tries to dump any waste in Ganga, his picture will be captured and the Nagar Nigam team, along with the police team, on the spot will be alerted,” said a senior official of Varanasi Nagar Nigam (VNN).Municipal commissioner Gaurang Rathi said monitoring through drones began soon after the chief minister inaugurated the facility.CM lauds Mirzapur team for Covid managementMeanwhile, chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday said the Uttar Pradesh government with its effective management of Covid-19 has proved many experts wrong who claimed that cases in UP will go above 30 lakhs in May. The CM was reviewing Covid-19 management in Mirzapur.Lauding the team for controlling the spread of Covid-19 in the district, the CM said, a few experts claimed that UP will witness over 1 lakh positive cases daily from April 25 to May 10 and they will cross the 30-lakh mark in May.“Following the mantra of ‘trace, track and treat’, the health department officials, with the cooperation from the public, succeeded in effectively controlling Covid in the state,” said the CM.“On April 28, over 38,000 cases were reported in a single day in the state. At present, active cases in the state are 69,000. Daily active cases have come down to 3,900. The recovery rate is increasing, and the positivity rate is decreasing,” he said.The CM said oxygen plants were being set up in every district to make them independent in terms of oxygen and the infrastructure at the hospitals is being spruced up.“When the first wave started, there was no facility for Covid testing in the state. Still, till date, we have managed to conduct 4.70 crore Covid tests. At the same time, 1.65 crore people have been vaccinated. The state has over 80,000 ventilator beds and preparations to deal with the possible third wave are underway,” the CM said.He appealed to the people to go for testing in case of experiencing Covid-19-like symptoms and also get the vaccination.The chief minister said the vaccination of people aged between 18 and 45 will begin across all districts from June 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/now-drones-to-help-keep-ganga-clean-in-varanasi-101621956911751.html
25-05-2021||Other||State dept urges district authorities to ensure children do not miss out on regular vaccines||PUNE On Tuesday, the state immunisation department held a meeting with district authorities, asking them to ensure that all children are vaccinated under the routine immunisation programmes. The anticipated third wave of Covid-19 is likely to affect children and also, the upcoming monsoon season puts children at risk for various other infections. Pune district authorities have missed their regular immunisation target for April, given that the second wave of Covid-19 was at its peak in the same month. Pune rural has vaccinated about 7% of its target children, while PMC has vaccinated 3% of the target children under the routine immunisation programme, which includes pentavalent, BCG, measles and rubella. District immunisation officer, Sachin Edake said, “We have vaccinated less than the annual target of 8.3% children every month. By the end of March 2022 we should have covered every child for routine immunisation. However, the pandemic, strict lockdown and a fear of stepping out and the hesitancy of parents to bring kids to primary health centres hindered the routine immunisation.” “However now we are planning to create more awareness and open up more immunisation centres so that children are vaccinated. The third wave could hit us anytime and during the monsoon season children fall ill, so it is important to immunise them. In the rural areas about 7% have been vaccinated of the 8.3% target set for each month.”Similarly Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has also fallen back on its routine immunisation as only 3% of its target of 60,900 children for the have been vaccinated. A senior health official at the PMC, requesting anonymity, said, “We have missed our target due to the lockdown and due to the Covid-19 peak. Our own staff was involved in treatment and vaccination process for Covid-19. However, routine immunisation is essential to make sure that we keep other epidemics away. To ensure children are vaccinated with the three most important vaccines in the first 11 months after birth, we may plan to start more immunisation centres.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/state-dept-urges-district-authorities-to-ensure-children-do-not-miss-out-on-regular-vaccines-101621956910513.html
25-05-2021||Pune||Pune dist reports 131 Covid deaths, rural counts for more than hundred||Pune: The rising number of Covid-19 positive cases in Pune rural is now resulting in more deaths in the region due to the infection. On Tuesday, as per the state health department, Pune district reported 131 Covid deaths of which 106 were reported from Pune rural alone. This took the death toll in rural area to 3,622. Pune district reported 2,696 new Covid cases which took the progressive count to 1,003,844 of which 946,389 have recovered, 11,807 declared dead and 45,648 are active cases undergoing treatment or are in home isolation. On Tuesday, Pune rural reported 1,401 new Covid cases which took the progressive counts to 281,523. Pune city reported 739 new cases which took the progressive count to 481,181 and with 25 more deaths the toll went up to 6,469 while PCMC reported 556 new cases and the progressive count went up to 241,140 and with zero deaths the toll stood at 1,656. The state reported that 36,176 patients discharged on Tuesday and 5,218,768 Covid patients discharged after full recovery until Tuesday. The recovery rate in the state is 92.76%. Also, 24,136 new cases in the state on Tuesday and 601 Covid deaths. The case fatality rate in the state is 1.61%. Of 33, 541,565 laboratory samples 5,626,155 have been tested positive (16.77%) for Covid-19 until Tuesday. Currently, 2,616,428 people are in home quarantine and 20,829 in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-dist-reports-131-covid-deaths-rural-counts-for-more-than-hundred-101621956011106.html
25-05-2021||Other||Despite upward trend in Satara and Kolhapur, Pune division’s positivity rate drops by 5% over 7 days||PUNE The collective positivity rate of five districts in the Pune division has reduced by five per cent over the past seven days. Pune district clearly indicates a downward trend of Covid cases, according to officials of the division commissionerate, while Satara and Kolhapur are still showing the upward trend. The number of daily positive cases in Solapur and Sangli has stabilised. The total number of mucormycosis patients in the five districts is now at 1,030. From May 10-16, the Pune division recorded a positivity rate of 22.31%. This reduced for the duration of May 17-23 to 17.43%. “The case fatality rate in the division is 1.95. Of the five districts in the division, Pune is clearly showing a declining trend. Whereas Satara and Kolhapur are showing an upward trend. The number of Covid patients in Solapur and Sangli has stabilised. These districts have hit a plateau and a phase of decline is expected to begin,” said Anil Ramod, additional divisional commissioner, Pune division. The number of active patients in the Pune division was 1,40,765 on May 17. This reduced to 1,03,510 on May 24. Satara district recorded 23,458 active cases on May 17, which marginally reduced in a week to 21,294 on May 24. Kolhapur district had 13,316 active cases on May17. On May 24 it recorded 13,521 active cases.According to the officials, Satara and Kolhapur can be said to have an upward trend because the number of positive cases have not gone down vis-à-vis the number of tests conducted. To contain the spread of the infection in the hotspot districts the administration has decided to emphasise institutional quarantines. “We have asked the collectors to isolate patients in rural parts in institutional quarantine centres. We are emphasising village- based isolation,” said Ramod. The increasing cases of Mucormycosis, colloquially known as “black fungus”, has posed a new challenge to the administration. As of May 24. Pune division recorded 1,030 total cases of black fungus and 52 deaths. Most of the total cases number of, at 620, are recorded in Pune district. Currently, a of total 813 patients are undergoing treatment in the division for black fungus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/despite-upward-trend-in-satara-and-kolhapur-pune-division-s-positivity-rate-drops-by-5-over-7-days-101621956010462.html
25-05-2021||Kolkata||Kolkata airport suspends all flight operations between 8.30am and 7.45pm on Wednesday||Ahead of cyclone Yaas landfall, the Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose International (NSCBI) Airport in Kolkata suspended all flight operations between 8.30am and 7.45pm on Wednesday.In view of the weather warning by @Indiametdept over #CycloneYaas, flight operations at #KolkataAirport will be suspended from 0830 IST upto 1945 IST on 26.05.2021.We sincerely apologise for the inconvenience caused.@AAI_Official@MoCA_GoI@HardeepSPuri@HomeBengal #Yaas"In view of the weather warning by @Indiametdept over #CycloneYaas, flight operations at #KolkataAirport will be suspended from 0830 IST upto 1945 IST on 26.05.2021.We sincerely apologise for the inconvenience caused. @AAI_Official, @MoCA_GoI, @HardeepSPuri, @HomeBengal #Yaas," Kolkata Airport's official handle informed via a tweet. Airliner IndiGo also in a tweet said that due to the cyclone its flight operations will be impacted.Along with Kolkata airport, Bhubaneshwar airport has also suspended its operations starting May 25 11 pm to May 27 5am. Jharsuguda airport will also remain shut between May 26 12am to May 27 7.45am. #AAI's Bhubaneswar @aaibpiairport will be closed from 11:00PM today 25th May'21 till 05:00AM of 27th May'21, @aaijharsugudaa1 Airport to remain shut from 00:01AM of 26th May'21 to 07:45AM of 27th May'21. Durgapur & Rourkela Airports to be closed on 26th May'21.#6ETravelAdvisory: Due to Cyclone Yaas, flight operations at #Kolkata will be impacted tomorrow, 26th May'21. Please visit https://t.co/tbHyUhH4SS to check the flight status and Plan B https://t.co/xe8o6KPFAl to opt for alternate options or get a refund for your cancelled flight."#6ETravelAdvisory: Due to Cyclone Yaas, flight operations at #Kolkata will be impacted tomorrow, 26th May'21. Please visit http://bit.ly/2QCfBUK to check the flight status and Plan B https://bit.ly/36u4Mh9 to opt for alternate options or get a refund for your cancelled flight," IndiGo said in a tweet.Cyclone Yaas is expected to make its landfall near Dhamra Port in Odisha's Bhadrak district. Yaas is likely to have windspeeds of 155 kmph to 165 kmph, gusting to 185 kmph, according to India Meteorological Department's (IMD) bulletin. The National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) has deployed its highest number of teams in Odisha and West Bengal for undertaking relief operations. Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee asked people to remain indoors and said that the government has rescued at least 1.1 million people so far. Chief ministers of Odisha and Andhra Pradesh have also reviewed their preparedness ahead of the landfall of Yaas. The Paradip port in Odisha suspended its operations from 2 pm on Tuesday due to cyclone Yaas and measures were taken to safeguard the Integrated Test Range of Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) from any damages. Kendrapara, Bhadrak, Jagatsinghpur and Balasore districts which are likely to be impacted by heavy rainfall have already issued a red alert. Two people also died in West Bengal after being electrocuted following a tornado which Hooghly and North 24 Parganas districts on Tuesday. The tornado also partly damaged 40 houses in Halisahar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/kolkata-airport-suspends-all-flight-operations-between-8-30am-and-745pm-101621955830433.html
25-05-2021||Pune||Man arrested for robbery and trespassing into actress Sonalee Kulkarni’s house||The Pimpri-Chinchwad police have arrested a 24-year-old man for trespassing into and attacking Marathi actress Sonalee Kulkarni’s house in Nigdi. The arrested man was identified as Ajay Vishnu Sekte (24), Kulkarni (33) has a house in the Pradhikaran area of Nigdi. The man injured in the early morning attack was identified as Manohar Kulkarni, the actress’s father who tried to confront the man. “We are not sure if it is a fan or a robber who entered the actress’ house. The people who caught him have beaten him up, so he is undergoing treatment at YCM Hospital. Upon further interrogation we will know if he was a fan or not,” said senior police inspector Ganesh Javadwad of Nigdi police station. A case under Sections for attempted robbery and causing hurt during a robbery of Indian Penal Code (IPC) was registered at Nigdi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/man-arrested-for-robbery-and-trespassing-into-actress-sonalee-kulkarni-s-house-101621955890493.html
25-05-2021||City||No relaxation in curfew in Srinagar for now despite dip in Covid-19 cases||Deputy Commissioner, Srinagar, Aijaz Asad on Tuesday ruled out any relaxation in the curfew in the city even though there was a decline in the daily Covid-19 cases. The official said that the Covid-19 situation in the district was in a decisive phase during which they can’t take any chances.“The Covid cases are coming down daily. The caseload is reducing but now we need to remain more alert. It can turn much better or even worsen. We still have 6,000 active cases in Srinagar. So there is no option of relaxation (in Covid-19 curfew) for now,” he said while talking to the media during a vaccination drive.“All decisions are taken by the state executive committee keeping in view the emerging situation and analysing the load of positive cases district wise,” he said.Srinagar was put under Covid-19 curfew, along with other high case districts, on April 29 with only emergency services allowed to operate. The restrictions were recently extended to May 31.By the beginning of May, the district was reporting the record highest number of daily cases out of the 20 districts of the Union territory. From a highest of 1,311 cases on May 4, the tally came down to 309 on Monday. Overall, the district has recorded 62,400 cases and 737 deaths.Asad said that the people need to continue to strictly follow the SOPs.“We should maintain social distancing and wear masks and, more importantly, go for vaccinations. Eligible groups should participate in vaccination drives. We will come out of the second wave successfully, just how we emerged from the first wave, when we all will work together,” he said.“If we see the history of pandemics, we will observe that there have mostly been four waves in every pandemic. That is why we need to prepare and vaccination can shorten this process of preparation,” he said.On Tuesday, the administration launched a vaccination drive across the city for the vulnerable and high-risk groups.“Today, 35 vaccination sites were opened in Srinagar for the 18-44 year age group. The drive has been started for most vulnerable groups and high-risk groups including journalists, shop keepers, vendors, milk and vegetable sellers, widows and orphans, construction workers - the groups that have maximum mobility and contact with people,” Asad said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/no-relaxation-in-curfew-in-srinagar-for-now-despite-dip-in-covid-19-cases-101621955665919.html
25-05-2021||Other||RTO’s new rates for hiring ambulances sees “marginal” increase||PUNE The Pune Regional Transport Office (RTO) has revised ambulance fares for a second time, in the wake of the Covid-19 crisis. RTO authorities said the current increase is marginal as compared to previous fares and are applicable in Pune, Pimpri-Chinchwad and Baramati.Pune RTO Ajit Shinde said, “The revised rates are to be adhered to by the ambulance owners and drivers as they should follow the norms as laid down in the GR. Any charges beyond the specified limits will invite strict action against the violators.” Exorbitant ambulance rates being charged during the first wave of Covid-19 had become a cause for concern. RTO authorities stated that they have considered that some ambulances have an air-conditioning system while fixing the new rates.For a distance of 25km or a time period of two hours, the fare has been increased from the existing slab of ₹500 to ₹900 for regular ambulances, and from ₹600 to ₹950 for ambulances with an AC. The fare for commuting beyond 25km has been fixed at ₹12 to ₹14 per km, up from the existing ₹11 to ₹13 per km. Also, waiting charges have been fixed at ₹100 to ₹150 per hour.RTO authorities maintained that the fare includes charges for the return distance and is calculated from the time the patient sits in the ambulance till the point of disembarkation. The fare charges are to be prominently displayed inside the ambulance.Private ambulances are at the service of the municipal corporation, government or semi-government agencies, local self-government institutions and government undertakings. The cost of fuel, driver’s salary, and maintenance of these ambulances will be borne by the municipal authority. There are separate rates for these ambulances to be provided to the ambulance owners by the respective institutions. Depending on the type of ambulance, charges for these ambulances must not exceed ₹1,600 per day.New ambulance rates25km or a time period of two hours ₹900 for regular ambulances ₹950 for ambulances with ACBeyond 25km  ₹12 to ₹14 per km (for both AC and non-AC ambulances)Waiting charges - ₹100 to ₹150 per hour||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/rtos-new-rates-for-hiring-ambulances-sees-marginal-increase-101621955830539.html
25-05-2021||Other||Jamshedpur stops Covid vaccination||Three teams of National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) were deployed in Jamshedpur, while as East Singhbhum (Jamshedpur) district administration stopped Covid-19 vaccination drive at all centres on Wednesday and Thursday in view of Cyclone Yaas expected to hit the state on Wednesday, officials said on Tuesday.“We have stopped vaccination drive for both 45-plus and 18-45 group, while house-to-house testing drive has also been stopped for Wednesday and Thursday. People have been asked not to venture out from their houses for next two days. Companies have been asked to manage with minimum employees and call only those staff on duty who are absolutely necessary,” Suraj Kumar, Jamshedpur deputy commissioner (DC), said.As per Indian Meteorological department, cyclone Yaas is expected to reach Jamshedpur and it’s neighbouring districts by late Wednesday night and cross the next day at an estimated speed of 100-120kmph. The effect of the cyclone was, however, visible from Tuesday itself with intermittent rains and overcast conditions throughout the day.The weather department predicted heavy rains and storms in and around Jamshedpur district on Wednesday and Thursday, while the effect is likely to slow down gradually from Friday. South Eastern Railways (SER) has also stopped movement of over 60 trains for next 72 hours, barring three trains Tata-Danapur, Tata-Chapra and South Bihar Express trains. “Eleven more trains passing through Tatanagar have been cancelled Tuesday,” SER informed in a press statement. Earlier, it cancelled 50 pairs of trains, including Covid-19 special trains. The district administration also ordered closure of all markets on Wednesday and Thursday, while Tata Motors announced to take block closure. Tata Steel also issued an alert for it’s Jamshedpur Plant. Around 50 shelters have been set up in low-lying areas and riverside areas of the district. The DC has set up control rooms with detailed deputation of officers, and cancelled leave of all electricity department officials for the two days. The health department has also been put on high alert and emergency numbers have been issued by district administration and SER.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jamshedpur-stops-covid-vaccination-101621955650568.html
25-05-2021||Pune||Four arrested for stealing agricultural vehicles||The Pune rural police arrested four people for stealing agricultural vehicles during lockdown period from unsuspecting farmers in Pune, Junnar, and Ale Phata regions, according to Abhinav Deshmukh, superintendent of police, Pune rural police. SP Deshmukh was speaking at a press meeting held on Tuesday. The police have recovered 10 tractors, five cows, two pick-up trucks, a Mahindra Bolero, a Mahindra Scorpio, six motorcycles, an oxygen cylinder, a cooking gas cylinder, a gas cutter, and a set of spanners. The total estimated worth of the seized goods was ₹76,88,000, according to the police. The four men arrested by the local crime branch of Pune rural police were identified as Satish Ashok Rakshe, a resident of Shirur and native of Shringonda area of Ahmednagar; Dnyandev alias Mauli Vinayak Nachbone, a resident of Shirur and a native of Ausa area of Latur; Pravin Kailas Korde, a resident of Shirur and a naitve of Junnar area of Pune; Sunil alias Bhau Bibhishan Devkate,a resident of Barshi area of Solapur, according to the police. “The modus operandi of stealing tractors had developed in the lockdown period. They conducted recee of the villages to find out where the new tractors were. They stole them during night hours and sold it to nearby farmers and made-up reasons to delay paperwork and eventually ignore it. They also stole pick-up trucks, cattle, SUVs, motorcycles. They had also attempted to loot ATMs,” said SP Deshmukh. The police have brought to light 21 cases by arresting these four. Of these 21 cases 12 are from Pune district, eight are from Ahmednagar, and one is from Solapur, according to the police. All arrested men are drivers and had started committing these crimes after the first lockdown was announced. Rakshe and Nachbone are relatives and Korede was known to them. The fourth person helped them increase their reach into other districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/four-arrested-for-stealing-agricultural-vehicles-101621955590519.html
25-05-2021||Pune||Students, parents face challenges due to uncertainty on board exams||As the uncertainty over Class 10 and 12 exams continues in the state as well as in the country, students and parents are worried and under tremendous pressure from the last few days. The situation is so critical that there has been an increase in the number of children and parents contacting psychologists and counsellors. Parents are tense worrying about how to handle their child in this tense situation of lockdown, the uncertainty of exams and for students who are unaware about their future careers.“The current situation of Covid and along with that the tension of board exams has really disturbed the houses of Class 10 and 12 students. I daily get at least two to three calls from parents of these students, either for the child’s mental health issues or for their own parenting issues. Earlier, students were preparing for the board exams, then suddenly Class 10 exams were cancelled, and students relaxed. While those students who had seriously prepared well for the exams went into depression as they cannot score good marks. Now, again this issue of conducting the exams is going on, due to which students are worried and frustrated,” said Dr Anjali Chaudhary of Sangopan- The Art of Parenting, a child counsellor and parenting coach. “On the other hand, parents are worried about the child’s safety whether to send the child to appear for the exam or not and even their future career with college admissions. More than urban area parents, rural parents are more confused and do not have proper guidance from anyone. This is leading to clashes between parents and children, already from the last 1.5 years the daily routine of children is disturbed, they are not able to spend time with their friends and go outside. Now again the tension of exams to be conducted and in such adverse situation is making them psychologically disturbed,” she added. Last month, the state government cancelled the Class 10 exams due to an increase in the number of Covid cases. While the Class 12 exams were postponed, a petition was filed at the Bombay High Court by professor Dhananjay Kulkarni challenging the Maharashtra government’s decision cancelling the Class 10 board exams this year due to the surge in Covid-19 cases. Even the central education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank along with other senior ministers held a meeting chaired by defence minister Rajnath Singh on Sunday regarding conducting of Class 12 board exams in the country. Asawari Chavan a class 10 student said, “I was preparing very hard for my board exams despite the Covid pandemic through my online lectures and taking help from our teachers. I was so excited to appear for the exam, but it got cancelled and disturbed all my plans. Since then, I stopped studying and now suddenly there are news about exams would be conducted again, and now I am worried again. The link of study is gone and due to the tension of Covid infection I cannot concentrate back fully on my study syllabus.” Mahesh Rathi a parent of Class 12 student said, “There is confusion about the exams, safety of students and further admissions in the college. No clear guidelines or instructions are there and we as parents are more worried for our child. It is affecting our entire family, as my son is not able to plan his further career goals and we cannot plan financially for his admission.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/students-parents-face-challenges-due-to-uncertainty-on-board-exams-101621955531712.html
25-05-2021||Ranchi||Cyclone Yaas: Very heavy rainfall likely today; 13 trains cancelled||Strap: Air service likely to be affected; disaster management department asks districts to make alternative arrangements for electricity in hospitals, ensure oxygen back-up  In view of the approaching Cyclonic Yaas, that is likely to trigger very heavy to extreme rainfall coupled with gusty winds in parts of the state on Wednesday, as many as 13 trains that depart or pass through Ranchi railway station have been cancelled, while flight operations from Ranchi airport will depend upon climatic condition of the city on Wednesday, officials said on Tuesday. Besides, the state disaster management has directed districts to make alternative arrangements for electricity at hospitals and ensure oxygen back-up. Districts have also been asked to ensure other modes of communication such as satellite phones and wireless communication system in case mobile communication gets affected due to the cyclone. According to the prediction of the weather department, cyclone Yaas is likely to make landfall around Wednesday noon. However, most parts of the state, mainly southern and central parts, are likely to experience light to moderate rainfall since morning, that will intensify to heavy to very heavy rainfall by evening, weather officials said. Senior public relation officer of South-eastern Railway, Neeraj Kumar, said in view of the cyclone, as many as 13 trains, which depart or pass through Ranchi, have been cancelled till now. Meanwhile, Birsa Munda Airport director Vinod Sharma said they have ensured all precautionary measures for works related to civil, electrical, operation, fire and ATC (air traffic control) departments. “On an average, seven flights are operating currently on a daily basis. If Ranchi doesn’t get much affected by rainfall or high-speed winds, flight operations may remain unaffected on Wednesday. We are also ready for flights in case they are diverted to Ranchi due to the cyclone’s impact,” Sharma said. The state electricity department was also prepared to deal with any imminent damage caused by the cyclone. The department officials said they have distributed electricity poles and wires to all divisions so that power services can be restored at the earliest in case of any damage. Districts that are likely to get affected most by the cyclone have already set up control rooms and made arrangements of temporary shelters. Ranchi deputy commissioner (DC) Chhavi Ranjan on Tuesday held an emergency meeting to chalk out preparedness strategy to deal with the cyclone. The DC said temporary shelters homes have been set up on block level and circle officers have been asked to ensure food and drinking water at the centre. A special team has been set up to deal with any emergency situation and Ranchi municipal commissioner officials have also been directed to be prepared, he said. The DC said oxygen refilling companies have been asked to keep back up oxygen so that patients do not suffer. Similar kinds of arrangements have been made by East Singhbhum, West Singhbhum, Seraikela-Kharsawan, Simdega, Dumka, Dhanbad, Bokaro and other administrations. Senior scientist at Ranchi centre of India Meteorological Department (IMD) Abhishek Anand said the cyclone is likely make landfall by the noon on Wednesday at West Bengal-Odisha coasts between Paradip and Sagar islands close to north Dharma and south of Balasore He said the impact of the approaching cyclone was visible in several districts of the state on Tuesday. Most parts of Jharkhand will experience light to moderate rainfall on Wednesday, while southern and central parts of Jharkhand might experience very heavy to extreme rainfall coupled with gusty winds of speed up to 130kmph. “East Singhbhum, West Singhbhum, Seraikela-Kharsawan are likely experience extreme rainfall, while Ranchi, Khunti and Gumla might see heavy to very heavy rainfall. The southern parts of the state might experience wind gusting up to 130kmph by the evening, while Khunti, Gumla and Simdega up to 90kmph. Ranchi and other districts may face wind speed up to 70kmph,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/cyclone-yaas-very-heavy-rainfall-likely-today-13-trains-cancelled-101621955531145.html
25-05-2021||Other||Data analysis of black fungus cases questions blame being put on Covid-19 treatment protocols||PUNE The Pune district health office has analysed 620 reported cases of mucormycosis in the district since December 2020. The analysis shows that in May alone, 538 cases, which account for 91% of the reported cases minus duplications. The analysis also provides insights on the type of treatment these patients received during their Covid-19 treatment. Mucormycosis has become a major challenge for the administration which is now struggling to treat patients for both the infections, mucormycosis and Covid-19. The analysis of all the cases registered on the health office portal gives the number of people who have received steroid therapy and oxygen support, necessary during the treatment of Covid-19. These treatment protocols are now being questioned as possible causes of mucormycosis. Mucormycosis, which is a fungus, has now become a major challenge because of the number of infections reported. The infection is primarily caused due to two reasons; one when fungi enters the body, and second, when immunity is suppressed. There have been demands to study whether contamination of industrial oxygen which is repurposed for medical use could lead to the introduction of the fungus, or if excessive use of steroids during the course of treatment on Covid-19 patients, could lead to suppression of immunity. However, the data analysis of the cases in Pune shows that close to half the number of mucormycosis patients did not receive any steroid therapy, and similarly, close to half did not receive any oxygen support during the course of their Covid-19 treatment. The analysis shows that of the 620 cases, 351 did get steroid therapy, while 269 did not get steroid therapy. Similarly, 302 people did not receive oxygen support prior to the onset of mucormycosis. The data also showed that of the 620 cases, 380 had diabetes. This was followed by 105 who had an immunocompromised status and 69 who had a comorbidity.The district administration, in its report, also stated that due to the duplication of names, about 29 cases have been repeated. Of the total 591 actual cases, 92 are from out of Pune district, like from Ahmednagar (32), Solapur (17) and Satara (17). On Tuesday, state health minister Rajesh Tope said, “Currently there are 2,245 active cases of mucormycosis in the state and of that, 1,007 are undergoing treatment through the MPJAY scheme. We are also getting 60,000 vials of Amphotericin B injection through a global tender which will reach the state directly by the first week of June.”Dr Halikar Sudhir, ENT specialist from Noble Hospital, said, “I have treated about 40-42 patients for mucor in the second wave alone. In 40 patients I saw that 15 did not report diabetes, while seven-eight were being treated at home so they had very mild to moderate symptoms during their Covid-19 treatment. They required only small doses of steroids and possibly no oxygen therapy. So this entire debate about contaminated oxygen or excessive use of steroids is questionable based on the data from the district administration and my own experience.”“We need to now study that whether this new strain is compromising the immunity of the host to such an extent that the fungus is having a strong impact. This is because we did not see so many cases of mucor in the first wave. Another thing to notice is that mucormycosis is a very commonly present fungus in our homes and even in the hospitals, so the fungus enters everyone’s body; but only those with compromised immunity face severe symptoms. Even among my patients I found that non-diabetic mucormycosis patients had milder symptoms than those who had diabetes,” Dr Sudhir said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/data-analysis-of-black-fungus-cases-questions-blame-being-put-on-covid-19-treatment-protocols-101621955530475.html
25-05-2021||Other||CUSB set to introduce NCC as elective subject at undergraduate level||PATNAIn a first, Central University of South Bihar (CUSB), Gaya, is set to introduce the National Cadet Corps (NCC) as an elective subject in graduation courses from the academic session beginning in 2021.Varsity officials said the decision was taken after approval of the University Grants Commission (UGC) to consider NCC as generic elective credit course (GECC) under Choice Based Credit Scheme (CBCS) in consonance of the New Education Policy 2020.CUSB vice-chancellor HCS Rathore said, “After approval of UGC and circulars issued by the All India Council of Technical Education and Ministry of Defence for offering NCC as a main subject in colleges, we received the proposal of Brigadier CC Jaleel, group commander of Gaya NCC, for introducing the course in the varsity’s curriculum.”“We have accepted the proposal but still need to fulfil certain formalities like recognition of course through board of studies, expert committee, approval of Academic Council prior offering the course. If all goes well, we would commence the course in the coming academic session”, he said.Elaborating the course plan, CUSB’s public relation officer Muddasir Alam said, “The NCC course consists of 24 credits in which 14 are allotted for Institutional Training and 10 credits are allotted for two 10 days Annual Training Camps. After completing the prescribed criteria, cadets would be to earn the credits for their concerned degrees along with the A, B & C certificates”.“We are the first varsity in the state to initiate the course as full-fledged main subject at undergraduate level,” he said.In 2018, CUSB initiated NCC as service organisation only for female students.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cusb-set-to-introduce-ncc-as-elective-subject-at-undergraduate-level-101621955470443.html
25-05-2021||Other||28 new cases of black fungus, 2 die||PATNATwenty-eight new cases and two deaths due to mucormycosis or black fungus were reported in Bihar on Tuesday, taking the total number of cases in the state to 229 and deaths to seven. The two deaths were reported from Patna’s Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (IGIMS), said its superintendent Dr Manish Mandal. He, however, did not share the details of the deceased. All these cases were associated with coronavirus. While some patients had contracted the fungal infection during treatment of Covid-19, many others reported it as a post-Covid complication, said health officials. Bihar reported 3,306 new cases of coronavirus and 104 deaths to the virus on Tuesday, taking the total number of cases so far to 6,95,726 and deaths to 4,746. Even as new infections were down, the number of deaths remained high. The state had reported 111 deaths in a single day on May 18, the highest so far this month. Among the new cases of mucormycosis, 19 were reported at the IGIMS, two at the Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College Hospital (JLNMCH) in Bhagalpur, one at the All India Institute of Medical Science (AIIMS), Patna, and seven at different private health facilities across the state, said health officials. IGIMS, with a total 91 patients, had the highest number of black fungus cases. AIIMS was next, having reported 61 cases so far, JLNMCH 9 and one each at the Patna Medical College Hospital, Nalanda Medical College Hospital (both in Patna), Darbhanga Medical College Hospital and the Sri Krishna Medical College Hospital in Muzaffarpur, among the government medical colleges in the state. Paras HMRI hospital (13 patients) and Ruban Memorial Hospital were among the 12 private facilities with highest number of cases of black fungus. Cases of mucormycosis had also been reported from Purnia, Aurangabad and Nalanda. Hike in pay of contract docs, paramedics In the midst of the pandemic, the Bihar government on Tuesday increased by ₹25,000 the monthly remuneration of senior residents and tutors, having three years tenure post at state-run medical college and hospitals. They would now get ₹85,000 in the first year, ₹90,000 in the second and ₹95,000 in the third year. The order comes into effect from February 25 this year. The doctors were drawing ₹60,000 in the first year, ₹65,000 in the second and ₹70,000 in the third as per the last revision in 2017. The revision was undertaken as the stipend of post graduate medical students at medical college hospitals was more than the senior residents and tutors, after the increase in PG stipend in January this year. PG medicos, commonly called junior doctors, will get ₹68,545 in the first year, ₹75,399 in the second and ₹82,938 in the third year of their masters’ curriculum. Prior to the revision in January, they used to get ₹50,000, ₹55,000 and ₹60,500 in the first second and third year, respectively, The government also increased by ₹3,000 to ₹5,000 the monthly remuneration of contractual paramedics and support staff posted at government health facilities. Among the 30 positions, include X-ray technicians, laboratory assistants, operation theatre assistants, X-ray mechanic, ECG technicians, holter and radiotherapy, dialysis, echocardiogram technicians, etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/28-new-cases-of-black-fungus-2-die-101621955410471.html
25-05-2021||Patna||Cyclone Yaas to trigger heavy rain, thunderstorm in Bihar on May 26: MeT||Patna Meteorological Centre on Tuesday sounded an alert predicting the impact of cyclone resulting in heavy to extremely heavy rain in the parts of the state on May 26, following the India Meteorological Department (IMD)’s forecast for the escalation of Cyclone Yaas into a very severe cyclonic storm near eastern coast. Director of Patna Meteorological Centre Vivek Sinha issued a special weather bulletin on Tuesday cautioning moderate to heavy rain along with high-velocity winds, thunderstorm and lightning activities in most parts of the state on Wednesday and continue till May 30.Deliberating the current weather system, Sinha said, “As per today’s numerical model, Cyclone Yaas is situated over west-central and east-central Bay of Bengal. The cyclone is likely to move towards the northwest region at the speed of 16 kmph. On Wednesday, the cyclone may intensify into a very severe cyclonic storm crossing Odisha and West Bengal and reach Jharkhand and Bihar. However, the cyclone is expected to weaken into depression in Jharkhand which would also slow downwind speed up to 40kmph in Bihar and Jharkhand”. “Under the influence of above meteorological mechanisms, the state is expected to reel under heavy rain and thunderstorm activities. Southern districts are more prone to experience the high impact of the cyclone while rest parts may receive light to moderate rain”, he added As per tthe daily bulletin issued, Sangrampur and Munger received 50 mm rain each, Amrapur and Bihpur 40 mm each while Sabour 30 mm.Weatherman Dinesh Kumar Bharti, said, “East and central parts of the state recorded light to moderate rain. Impact of Cyclone Yaas would be felt in southern districts within 24 to 48 hours”.Meanwhile, chief minister Nitish Kumar held a high level meeting with ministers and senior officials to review preparedness for Cyclone Yaas. Kumar asked the officials and DMs of all districts to be on alert and be prepared to meet any requirement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/cyclone-yaas-to-trigger-heavy-rain-thunderstorm-in-bihar-on-may-26-met-101621955411108.html
25-05-2021||Pune||Police dog Jack tracks down man wanted for rape and murder of 71-year-old||A man wanted for rape and murder was arrested within four to five hours after the victim’s body was discovered with the help of the Pune police dog squad member Jack and the officials of the fingerprint department. A 52-year-old man was arrested by Pimpri-Chinchwad police for sexual assault and murder of a 71-year-old woman in Chakan area of the district on Monday. The arrested man was identified as Anil Sudam Waghmare (52), a resident of Kurkundi village of Khed taluka of Pune. The 71-year-old woman who lived by herself in the same village was found lying in a pool of blood on Monday. “He forcefully entered her house and tried to rape her. When she resisted, he hit her in the head with a metal pipe used to fan the flame of an earthen stove to grievously hurt her and kill her. After her death he sexually assaulted her according to the investigation in the matter,” read a statement from Manchak Ipper, deputy commissioner of police, Zone-1 of Pimpri-Chinchwad police. A complaint in the matter was lodged by the woman’s 50-year-old daughter-in-law. The officials of Chakan police station are investigating the case further. A case under Sections 376 (sexual assault), 302 (murder), and 450 (house-trespass to commit offence punishable with imprisonment for life) of Indian Penal Code has been registered at Chakan police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/police-dog-jack-tracks-down-man-wanted-for-rape-and-murder-of-71yearold-101621955351432.html
25-05-2021||Other||Police hit hard by second wave, 33 dead so far||PATNAThe second wave of coronavirus has hit the Bihar Police harder than the first one, leaving 33 of its members dead in just two months of this year, April and May, compared to 26 fatalities reported last year since the pandemic outbreak in March 2020.An official in the state police headquarters said exposure to the public during the assembly election duty in the neighbouring West Bengal and Assam may also have led to a spike in infection among the police personnel. The second wave has also hit the force’s upper echelons and several top officials are in home isolation. Meetings are now being held online. “It’s a worrisome situation for the police department as we are not able to work in a systematic way as we used to because of this virus,” the official said.According to the information obtained from police headquarters, the 33 police persons who died were from various ranks, from inspector to chowkidar. Around 2,400 have been infected in the second wave, of which 150 were hospitalised, some in serious condition. There are around 445 active cases in the state police department. The number of Covid cases among police personnel last year wasn’t immediately available.Bihar Police has a strength of 80,000, including personnel posted in about 1,100 police stations across the state and other police wings such as CID, special branch, STF, Vigilance, government rail police, etc. Additional director general (headquarters) Jitendra Kumar said, “We have observed that vaccination has been effective in containing infections or its impact on our personnel. We are trying our best to get all our personnel vaccinated as soon as possible. About 90% have received the first dose, and of them, 75% have received the second dose.”Bihar Police Association’s state president Mrityunjay Kumar Singh has requesting the state police chief to make special arrangements for treatment of police personnel and their families. He also urged to deploy a police officer with a dedicated mobile number at the headquarters to coordinate with the affected family members of the police personnel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/police-hit-hard-by-second-wave-33-dead-so-far-101621955352118.html
25-05-2021||Other||HC keeps lens on deaths, state seeks time to compile||PATNAThe Patna High Court, which has been hearing a suo motu public interest litigation (PIL) on Covid management in Bihar, on Tuesday said it was important that every death, Covid or non-Covid, was reported and documented, as it could go a long way in helping the state prepare for the third wave of the coronavirus pandemic.Referring to its May 17 order, the bench of Chief Justice Sanjay Karol and Justice Sanjay Kumar said the official website for death registration must be updated with information compiled from every village, panchayat, block, district or town. Instead of information regarding the infrastructure available in districts, the correct figure of deaths should be reported as it would give an overall view of the ground situation, the bench said.The court also wanted to know if there was only one crematorium at Buxar and why the state’s affidavit was silent with regard to burial grounds. “The affidavit is also conspicuously silent as to how many public functionaries related to panchayati Raj institutions have reported deaths in their respective areas within 24 hours, as directed earlier, and why the official website is not updated. Why it is that the digital India programme is not being put to use in Bihar?,” the court asked, adding if the authorities needed time to compile data, that could be granted for the sake of correct and complete information.The court granted one week to the government for presentation of complete and correct information after advocate general Lalit Kishore said that the chief secretary had directed all the district magistrates for the same and sought 10 days of time. “Till now, the civil surgeon used to inform the health department regarding Covid death figures in his district. Now, after the court direction, the chief secretary has directed the DMs to furnish all death figures, whether they take place in village, panchayat, block or district town, or at home or in hospitals or dedicated facilities. Separate affidavits will have to filed for each district, starting off with Buxar,” the AG said. Earlier, the AG said that due to efforts of the court, things had started improving, with positivity rate dropping to two per cent, recovery rate increasing to 97% and number of active cases coming down to 27,000 in less than two months, while “states like Maharashtra, Gujarat etc, with better medical infrastructure, are still battling the pandemic, though they, too, have witnessed significant improvement in the situation”. The bench said while what the AG’s observation sounded good, the court would not let its guard down and like to maintain the momentum, “as we are preparing ourselves for a situation that may arise six months from now in the form of expected third wave”. “The government’s affidavit says that bed occupancy in hospitals has come down to 50%, oxygen supply has improved and ventilators are available, even if some are non-functional, as reported in newspapers. But the best way we can serve the residents of the state is by coming up with facts and figures. That is why we said Buxar is a test case with regard to reporting and registration of deaths. It is equally important that deaths are reported,” the bench observed. The bench said while the state’s stated policy was “test, track and treat”, what percentage of its population was actually being tested. “If 1.25 lakh tests are being conducted in a state with a population over 10 crore, what percentage it comes to population wise compared to Delhi, Maharashtra or other states? The state is working, but it needs to work more, have more equipment and infrastructure,” it said. The bench was also informed that the state government had withdrawn from the ESIC Hospital, Bihta, where 76 beds were manned by the Army and 50 by the hospital authorities. The court asked if the ESIC hospital under one management would be able to serve better. “Bihta is an important hospital to cater to rural population. With cases of black/white fungus rising, it would require dedicated wards. As is emerging, the cases are rising in rural areas due to indiscriminate use of steroids and drugs by quacks,” the court said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hc-keeps-lens-on-deaths-state-seeks-time-to-compile-101621955350607.html
25-05-2021||Pune||Paper leak case: Lt. Col. Bedi’s police custody extended until May 28||The police custody of lieutenant colonel-rank officer arrested by Pune police from Secunderabad in Army recruitment question paper leak case was extended by a court in Pune on Tuesday.The remand of Lt Col Bhagat Preetsingh Sartajsingh Bedi (44) was extended until May 28 by additional sessions Judge AY Thatte on Tuesday. “He was presiding over the committee that was overlooking the exam procedure. The question paper was of 50 questions. He saw the paper, wrote the 50 questions by hand on a paper, and sent a photo of those hand-written questions to the earlier arrested person,” said public prosecutor Premkumar Agarwal. A source close to the investigation revealed that the two may have destroyed both their phones used for the transactions after the police raids. “They have consented to extended custody so there was no argument from our side. They are co-operating with the investigation,” said defence advocate Sudhir Shah. Lt Col Bedi had allegedly sent the questions to a storekeeper from Delhi Cantonment, Vira Prasad Kotiswamy Narnepati (41), who was arrested on May 15. Narnepati’s police custody remand was also extended until May 28 by the same court on Monday. Narnepati revealed that the officer had sent him the paper, according to Laxman Borate, assistant commissioner of police (ACP), crime, Pune police. The police have recovered a blue coloured phone from Narnepati. However, the recovered phone is not the one he used to send the paper to one among the two other people wanted in the case. The person who received it from Narnepati had sent it to the second person wanted in the case. Narnepati had allegedly recived ₹7,00,000 and had paid ₹3,00,000 from it to Lt Col Bedi for the paper and returned ₹4,00,000 to the two others wanted in the case, according to ACP Borate. When the case came to light, the nation-wide recruitment exam was cancelled hours before it was held. “He paid ₹3,00,000 to the Lt Col for receiving the paper but once the police raids were done and exam was cancelled, he sent the remaining money back. All these transactions were in cash,” said ACP Borate. Two separate offences were registered in the matter and a total of 12 arrests have been made so far in the case and after February 28 when the exam was supposed to be held at 40 centres with 30,000 aspirants. One case in the matter is registered under Sections 406, 420, 120(b), and 34 of Indian Penal Code, Sections 6 and 7 of Maharashtra Prevention of Malpractices at University Board and Other Specified Examination Act, 1982; Sections 7, 12, and 13 of Prevention of Corruption Act 1988 (2018 Amendment) and Section 66(c) of Information Technology Act at Vishrantwadi police staiton. Another case in the matter is registered under Sections 420, 409, 34 of Indian Penal Code, Sections 6 and 7 of Maharashtra Prevention of Malpractices at University Board and Other Specified Examination Act, 1982; Sections 7, 12, and 13 of Prevention of Corruption Act 1988 (2018 Amendment) and Section 66(c) of Information Technology Act at Wanowrie police station. So far, the arrest of one person in both the cases has confirmed any link between the two cases. Two major rank officers, Thiru Murugan Thangavelu (47) and Vasant Vijay Kilari (45), were arrested earlier in the Wanowrie case. The others arrested in the case include Kishore Mahadev Giri (40), Malegaon in Baramati; Madhav Sheshrao Gitte (38) a resident of Sappers vihar colony in Pune; another accused called Bharat Lakshman Adakmol (37) from Pachora, Pune; Gopal Yuvraj Koli (31) a resident of BEG Center in Dighi; and Uday Dattu Auti (23) a resident of BEG Khadki. The ones arrested in Vishrantwadi were identified as Ali Akhtar Khan (47), Azad Lalmohammed Khan (37) and Mahendra Chandrabhan (37).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/paper-leak-case-lt-col-bedi-s-police-custody-extended-until-may-28-101621955230472.html
25-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra records 24,136 new Covid-19 cases, 601 fresh deaths; tally over 5.62 million||Maharashtra’s daily tally of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) remained below the 30,000-mark for the sixth consecutive day after 24,136 new cases were reported on Tuesday, taking the caseload to 5,626,155, according to the state health department’s bulletin. As many as 601 people succumbed to the viral disease on Tuesday while 36,176 recovered from it, taking the state’s cumulative deaths and recoveries to 90,349 and 5,218,768, respectively, the bulletin showed.The daily recoveries in Maharashtra continue to outnumber the new cases and the overall recovery rate stood at 93%. The active cases have further declined to 314,368.Tuesday’s case count in Maharashtra is 2,014 more than that of Monday’s when 22,122 cases were seen. The death toll on Tuesday is also 240 greater than that of Monday’s (361 deaths).Also Read| Maharashtra stops home isolation in 18 districts with high Covid positivity rateThe state capital Mumbai, however, continued to report a fall in its daily infections as 1,029 people tested positive for Covid-19 while 37 more died. The city’s caseload is nearing 700,000 with 14,650 deaths, the health department’s bulletin showed.Eighteen districts in Maharashtra including Nashik, Latur, Ahmednagar, Pune and Gadchiroli banned home isolation for all infected patients and would send them to Covid care centres, state health minister Rajesh Tope said on Tuesday, adding the decision was taken as these districts have reported above-average positivity rates.Collectors of all these 18 districts have been ordered by the Maharashtra government to set up more Covid care centres.The Maharashtra government on Tuesday also said that Mucormycosis has been classified as a notified disease in the state. More than 2,000 (2,245 to be exact) have been infected with the fatal disease in Maharashtra so far, health minister Tope said and all such patients will be treated free of cost at state government operated hospitals.Amid the rising cases of Mucormycosis, there is also a skyrocketing demand for Amphotericin-B injections. To address the demand, Maharashtra will receive 60,000 injections through a tender floated by the state government, Tope said adding this is an additional supply apart from the current allocation of the drug by the central government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maha-records-24-136-new-covid-cases-601-fresh-deaths-tally-over-5-62-million-101621953739784.html
25-05-2021||Kolkata||2 die due to electrocution, 40 houses partly damaged in tornado ahead of Yaas: Mamata Banerjee||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday said that two people died due to electrocution in West Bengal's Chinsurah due to a tornado ahead of the landfall of cyclone Yaas. "Two people died due to electrocution in Hooghly's Chinsurah today. In another incident in Halisahar, 40 houses were also damaged due to the tornado. At least four to five people suffered minor injuries in this incident," Mamata Banerjee said at a press conference. The chief minister assured that Bengal is prepared ahead of the landfall and said it has rescued 1.1 million so far. "We are prepared. Based on the information we have, the cyclone will hit the state between morning and noon. Since the landfall is expected to occur between early morning and noon, it is advisable to remain indoors. I request everyone to remain calm," Mamata further added. "I request people to not get out of their homes unnecessarily. More than three lakh officials are on alert. We will be stationed here the entire night. Officers and police officials are stationed everywhere," the chief minister said. The tornado hit Hooghly and North 24 Parganas and occurred hours before cyclone Yaas is expected to make a landfall near Dhamra Port in Odisha's Bhadrak district tomorrow.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/two-electrocuted-40-houses-partly-damaged-in-tornado-ahead-of-yaas-mamata-101621951493381.html
25-05-2021||Chandigarh||Covid-19 vaccine wastage rate improves in Haryana, average now at 2% to 3%, says state government||The Haryana government on Tuesday said that the Covid-19 vaccine wastage in the state has improved from 6%, according to the government’s data, to 2-3%. In a press release, the Centre also said that the vaccine wastage rate was higher in the government data because of a mismatch, which has now been rectified by the districts.“Haryana health department improved the vaccine wastage data from 6%, as per the data recently released by the Centre to 2-3% (as per recently updated data available with state government). The vaccine wastage percentage was relatively higher in the data released by the Centre as there was data mismatch and the districts have rectified it.” the state government said in its statement on Tuesday.“Haryana had a 6% vaccine wastage of Covieshield and 10.2% wastage of Covaxin. Thereafter the officers of the health department immediately swung into action and identified that there was a data mismatch,” the government further said.Additional chief secretary of health Rajeev Arora said that the health department officials have corrected the data mismatch and “subsequently the wastage percentages dropped from 6% for Covieshield to 3.1% and 10.2% of Covaxin to 2.4%. Thus, the average wastage percentage is between 2-3%,” the statement showed.Earlier on May 11, the Union ministry of health and family welfare in a press release, noted that Haryana, Rajasthan and Assam were the top three states with the maximum wastage. Data from the ministry showed that the wastage was 6.49% in Haryana, 5.92% in Assam and 5.68% in Rajasthan. The ministry also highlighted that Nagaland, Tamil Nadu, Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Punjab, Manipur, Bihar and Meghalaya were the other states which also reported a higher rate of vaccine wastage.In Haryana, 3,270,712 people between 45 and 60 years of age have been given the first dose and 774,105 people in the same age group have received their second. Also, in the 18 to 44 years age group, 4,388,638 first doses and 983,673 second doses have been administered, according to the state government’s data on Tuesday. Also, 3,757 new Covid-19 cases and 95 deaths were reported in the state previously on Monday, a bulletin from the state government showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid19-vaccine-wastage-rate-improves-in-haryana-average-now-at-2-to-3-says-state-government-101621952802384.html
25-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra stops home isolation in 18 districts with high Covid positivity rate||Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope said on Tuesday that patients of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) belonging to 18 districts of the state which have a high positivity rate will no longer be allowed home isolation and will be admitted to Covid care centres. Home isolation is typically suggested for those patients of Covid-19 which are asymptomatic or have mild symptoms.According to the health department’s data, out of the total 36 districts in Maharashtra-- Ratnagiri, Osmanabad, Beed, Hingoli, Akola, Amravati, Thane, Sangli, Gadchiroli, Wardha, Nashik, Ahmednagar, Latur, Satara, Sindhudurg, Raigad, Pune and Kolhapur-- have above-average positivity rates, news agency PTI reported.Speaking to reporters on Tuesday, Tope said home isolation will be completely stopped in these districts and the district collectors have been instructed to set up more Covid care centres in their respective regions.Also Read| Maharashtra mulls relaxation in curbs as Covid cases continue to dropAs rural areas across India have also been impacted under the infectious second wave of the coronavirus pandemic, the Maharashtra health minister said the collectors of these aforementioned 18 districts will use funds from the premium collected on auction of minor minerals to set up Covid care centres in villages, PTI further reported.Tope also said workers from the Accredited Social Health Activist (ASHA) will be educated on how to carry out Rapid Antigen Tests and use self-testing kits. These workers will further encourage people residing in villages to undergo tests and also spread awareness about getting vaccinated against Covid-19, he said.Also Read| Maharashtra adds 22,122 new Covid cases; Mumbai's daily tally continues to fallMaharashtra- which was once the worst affected region due to the pandemic in India- has seen a significant drop in daily cases and deaths in the recent weeks. On Monday, the state recorded another low of 22,122 new cases and 361 more deaths. This is the fifth consecutive day that the new infections remained below the 30,000-mark. Nearly 5.2 million have recovered from Covid-19 in Maharashtra so far and the recovery rate has climbed to 93%.However, the state is currently grappling with a huge spike in the cases of Mucormycosis or black fungus. Health minister Tope said on Tuesday that 2,245 people have been infected with the fatal disease so far and the state government has classified Mucormycosis as a notified disease.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-stops-home-isolation-in-18-districts-with-high-covid-positivity-rate-101621952135290.html
25-05-2021||Kolkata||‘Storm surge triggered by cyclone Yaas during full moon would inflict maximum damage’: IMD||Storm surge in the sea and rivers triggered by very severe cyclone ‘Yaas’, which coincides with the perigean spring tide of Wednesday’s full moon, would inflict the maximum damage this time, India Meteorological Department (IMD) officials have warned. “The maximum damage would be caused by the storm surge this time. On May 26, when the cyclone hits, there is also the spring tide. The damage would be the maximum in the coastal districts of East Midnapore and South 24 Parganas,” said Sanjib Banerjee, deputy director general of IMD’s regional office in Kolkata Experts said that the water level in the sea rises at least a metre high during a spring tide, which occurs during a full moon, over a normal high tide that comes every day. The water level is highest during the perigean spring tide when the moon is closest to the earth. “The storm surge triggered by the cyclone at East Midnapore district would be 2m–4m, while in South 24 Parganas it would be 1m–2m. This is over and above the astronomical tide (spring tide),” said Banerjee. Storm surge is the abnormal rise in seawater level during a cyclone. The sea and river level rises and floods the low-lying areas along the banks and coastline. For storm surge, the IMD has issued a red warning, the highest level of warning that calls for taking action, for East Midnapore district. For South 24 Parganas district an orange warning ( officials to remain prepared) has been issuedYaas has already intensified into a severe cyclone and is expected to gather more steam and become a very severe cyclone by Tuesday late night before hitting the Odisha–West Bengal coast somewhere around Balasore on Wednesday noon. “The water level is already high because of the spring tide and that’s more worrying. Sea and river water have gushed into some places along the coast and in the Sunderban delta. Around nine lakh people have already been evacuated,” said Mamata Banerjee, chief minister of West Bengal. The chief minister said that she, along with top bureaucrats and some cabinet ministers, would stay the night in the control room set up at the secretariat to monitor the storm and the related disaster management work. The IMD has issued a red warning for heavy to very heavy rain for two districts – East Midnapore and West Midnapore and an orange warning (be prepared) for another 13 districts on May 26. Around three lakh government employees, from senior bureaucrats to home guards and civic volunteers, have been deployed for disaster management work and carry out relief work after the cyclone. The Army has been kept on standby.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/storm-surge-triggered-by-cyclone-yaas-during-full-moon-would-inflict-maximum-damage-imd-101621952351178.html
25-05-2021||Kolkata||Cyclone Yaas: West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee to stay in control room, to monitor situation closely||As cyclone Yaas is expected to hit the coasts of Odisha and West Bengal later on the afternoon of May 26, Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday said that she will “monitor the situation closely” in the state from the control room in the secretariat building Nabanna.Chief minister Banerjee visited the control centre established in view of cyclone Yaas earlier on Tuesday, to inspect the preparations in place. “I have spoken to all the DMs on cyclone Yaas. I will stay in Nabanna tonight. I will monitor the situation closely,” news agency ANI quoted the chief minister as saying. The West Bengal state government had set up the control room to monitor the cyclone that is moving towards the state.Earlier on Monday, Banerjee while briefing on the steps taken to handle the situation, said that 4,000 shelters have been prepared and a million people were to be evacuated. “As many as 4,000 cyclone shelters are ready, 10 lakh people [are] to be evacuated. 51 disaster management teams, 1,000 electricity and 400 mobile network restoration teams [have been] formed. 20 districts will be severely affected,” ANI quoted her as saying.On Monday, she also met with the Union home minister Amit Shah over a video conference, in which Shah discussed the preparedness of states expected to be hit by the cyclone. Chief ministers of Odisha and Andhra Pradesh were also present in the meeting. During the meeting Banerjee assured that all steps have been taken to ensure minimal loss to life and property by the cyclone, news agency PTI reported.Alleging that the Centre has been impartial towards West Bengal, Banerjee said that it assured Bengal of all help but earmarked an advance of only ₹400 crore to the state. Following the meeting with the home minister Banerjee said, “At the meeting, I sought to know why Bengal, despite being a bigger state than Odisha and Andhra Pradesh -- both in terms of population density and number of districts -- is getting less? Why are we being deprived repeatedly?" PTI quoted her asking.Meanwhile, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) in a press release at 1pm on Tuesday said that the severe cyclonic storm Yaas is very likely to further intensify into a very severe cyclonic storm in the next 12 hours. “It is very likely to cross north Odisha-West Bengal coasts between Paradip and Sagar Island close to north of Dhamra and south of Balasore, during noon of Wednesday, the 26th May as a Very Severe Cyclonic Storm,” the weather bureau further said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/cyclone-yaas-west-bengal-chief-minister-mamata-banerjee-to-stay-in-control-room-to-monitor-situation-closely-101621945864618.html
25-05-2021||Pune||Drive for 18-plus picks up pace at private hospitals in Pune||PUNE Four days after private hospitals in Pune begun vaccination for the 18-45 years age group, scores were vaccinated amid slots booked till Friday in most hospitals.At many hospitals, long queues were witnessed amid youngsters patiently waiting for their turn since morning. So far, at least 18 health facilities in the city have started vaccination with the latest being Deenanath hospital, which is inoculating the 18-45 years age group at Balshikshan school, Mayur colony.Interestingly, some local youths said few hospitals were visited by youngsters from nearby villages or other cities to get jabs. While HT could not independently confirm this, authorities clarified that there are no directions that prohibit people from one part of the district or another to get vaccine dose in other parts.On being asked if those not from Pune are also coming to the city for jabs, Dr H K Sale, executive director of Noble hospital, said, “We do not get to know the address of the beneficiaries who come to us. Anyone sitting in Loni or even from a nearby district can book a slot for those getting the vaccine under 18-45 years of age criteria. Mentioning the address is not a mandatory criterion.”Many said they have not been able to book a slot through online registration at private hospitals.“I am trying to get an online slot from last one week in a private hospital but it gets full within seconds when it opens up. There should be an offline registration facility available at the hospital even for the age group between 18 to 45,” said Karan Makwana, an IT professional.The scene was in contrast to one being witnessed earlier this month when many from rural areas complained their jabs are being taken by those living in the city.According to Dr Avdhut Bodamwad, medical superintendent at Ruby Hall Clinic, around 10,000 people have been vaccinated till now at the private hospitals in Pune.“As few hospitals have got the vaccine doses directly from the manufacturers, each hospital has vaccinated 1,000 to 1,200 people till now,” said Bodamwad, who is also a member of Hospital Association of Pune.While youths from the IT sector are unhappy with the limited slots given for online registration at private hospitals. “I am trying to get an online slot from last one week in a laid private hospital but it gets full within seconds when it opens up,” said Karan Makwana an IT professional.He said the number of beneficiaries getting jabs at private hospitals would have been double if the 18-45 age group would have been allowed on-site registration.On Monday, the Central health ministry enabled on-site registration for the 18-45 years age group on the Co-WIN platform for all government vaccination centres. This was in addition to the facility of online appointments provided for this population group. However private centres will have to publish their vaccination schedules exclusively with slots for online appointments.Meanwhile, hospitals including Ruby Hall Clinic, Noble hospital and Sahyadri Hospitals were to start on-campus vaccination from Monday. However, on-campus vaccination for employees of corporates could not start on Friday due to a technical glitch in the portal, hospital authorities said.“Vaccination dry run was carried out today at destination centre inside the Magarpatta City but as we had login issues it didn’t take off. We will be doing vaccination for corporate companies and residential area people possibly from tomorrow.” said Sale from Noble Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/drive-for-18-plus-picks-up-pace-at-private-hospitals-in-pune-101621944611783.html
25-05-2021||Pune||Pune scientists discover new species of multidrug-resistant bacteria from snake||PUNE The city-based scientists along with other experts in the country have discovered a new species of bacteria which are known to resist the approved antibiotics used in the treatment of snake bites. The bacteria was found in the scats or faecal of “vine snake” a green coloured snake commonly found in the northern western ghats. The two species of bacteria have been discovered for the first time, claim scientists.According to these researchers, it is necessary to find out the microorganisms of animal origin which can lead to various human diseases or the next pandemic in future given the current Covid-19 pandemic situation.A team of scientists working from Junnar, Pune and Chandigarh made this discovery which was accepted in February 2021 by “The study” and recently published in the Springer – Nature journal Antonie Van Leeuwenhoek.According to the team, while most of the study for isolation and identification of microorganisms from snakes and other wild animals mainly focus on the oral cavity. But in the present study, the novel microorganisms are isolated from the scat of snakes.RD Chaudhari from the department of zoology and research centre, Shri Shiv Chhatrapati College, Junnar, Pune (SSCC) who first collected the faeces of the snake four years ago, said, “It is a huge discovery and further study is needed. We do not know how harmful this new bacteria or how safe it is. It is resistant to the existing antibiotics we use for the treatment. The most important point is that this bacteria can enter other species not just through snake bites, but also through the faeces of the snake and can be carried through the water flow in the rainy seasons or air.”The faecal microbiome is studied to understand the gut microbes and in this case, also the microbes from the scat may represent the microbes present in the gut of the snake. The role of this microbe in the snake gut needs to be established by further studies. The bacteria reported here comes under the family Planococcaceae. Some species of this family are pathogenic.It is important to identify the bacteria in snakes because they can cause disease. As society develops, the chance that humans have contact with animals decreases; however, the desire of people to interact with animals increases. As a result, several people will come in contact with these bacteria which are opportunistic invaders and may lead to various diseases. Most of the bacterial species isolated from the snakes have public health importance and have been incriminated in human infections worldwide. Some snakes may already harbour these bacterial pathogens from the wild, said the statement issued by National Centre for Cell Sciences (NCCS), which is located in Pune and which also worked in the project and Shri Shiv Chhatrapati College.“Given the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, multiple researchers after a more detailed bioinformatics analysis of the sequence of 2019-nCoV found that coronavirus might come from snakes. So we need to realise that these microscopic organisms have the potential to cause more such pandemics in future. Hence, nowadays it becomes important to focus on such a study to avoid diseases originating from wild animals,” said Chaudhari.In the present study strain, SN6T and SN6b as novel species of the genus Savagea and the family Planococcaceae are discovered for which the name Savagea serpentis sp. Nov of is given. As these bacteria are isolated from snakes hence the species name serpentine is given. In addition to NCCs and SSCC both of which are located in the Pune district, microbial type culture collection and CSIR Institute of Microbial Technology, Chandigarh also worked on this research.According to the team, the newly isolated bacteria from scats of vine snake are resistant to multiple antibiotics of four different classes that are aminoglycosides including gentamicin, amikacin, tobramycin, neomycin, and streptomycin, b-lactams including penicillin G, amoxicillin, cephalosporin C, cefoxitin, thienamycin, aztreonam, clavulanic acid; fluoroquinolones including levofloxacin, ciprofloxacin, moxifloxacin, ofloxacin, gemifloxacin.. and sulphonamides including sulfadiazine, sulfamethizole, sulfamethoxazole, sulfasalazine, sulfisoxazole and others. The most interesting fact mentioned by the team is that other bacteria from the family Planococcaceae are sensitive to several antibiotics including tetracycline, streptomycin, ampicillin, erythromycin, gentamicin, penicillin-G, rifampin, streptomycin and others.Further, the team added that there are many bacteria including multi-drug resistant which are present in the snakes leading to wound infections after snake bites. In some serious cases, patients may suffer from cellulitis, tissues necrosis, finger or toe gangrene, and/or extensive necrotizing fasciitis. To avoid such types of infections antibiotic therapy is the only way. It is also mentioned that ciprofloxacin, amikacin, cefotaxime, cefepime, ciprofloxacin, ampicillin, gentamicin, penicillin and vancomycin are the most frequently prescribed antibiotic after snake bite to control wound infection due to bacterial flora present in snakes. But these newly isolated bacteria are resistant to these drugs which is of serious concern.They further added that a few species and strains of Planococcus have been demonstrated to be pathogenic to other animals. Some species lead to an outbreak of necrotic hepatitis in chickens. Some of the species and strains of Planococcus are found in bronchial biopsy in a child with cystic fibrosis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-scientists-discover-new-species-of-multidrug-resistant-bacteria-from-snake-101621944130770.html
25-05-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh’s Mohini Singh awarded British Order of Merit||Britain’s Queen Elizabeth II has appointed Indian citizen Mohini Singh, who works at the British deputy high commission in Chandigarh as a consular officer, as an honorary Member of the Most Excellent Order of the British Empire (MBE). This honour is conferred by the Queen in recognition of Mohini’s services to British people during the Covid-19 pandemic, a press release from the deputy high commission said on Tuesday. Also read: We need Taiwan as observer at WHA and Covid investigation, says USIn 2020, the UK Government organised 66 special chartered flights, running from April 8 to June 5, which brought back nearly 18,000 passengers from 32 locations across India to the UK. The lockdown coincided with a peak period for British people travelling to Punjab to see family and visit Golden Temple. To meet the extraordinary demand from the region, Amritsar airport saw the largest number of UK Government chartered flights across the whole of India – with the deployment team on the ground made up of staff from the British high commission in Delhi and the deputy high commission in Chandigarh. As a consular officer, Mohini’s role was to help provide support and advice to British nationals trying to get home. One of UK’s largest repatriation ops in 2020 Caroline Rowett, the British deputy high commissioner in Chandigarh, said: “Mohini worked tirelessly to support affected British people during the lockdown and the ban on international travel due to the Covid-19 pandemic. During the lockdown, over 8,000 people were successfully repatriated from Amritsar on 29 flights, one of the UK’s largest repatriation operations in 2020.” An elated Mohini Singh said: “I’m delighted to receive this award and grateful to be a part of the UK in India network. It has been a challenging year, but my family and colleagues have been extremely supportive, empathetic and unfailingly kind.” Mohini, who is from Chandigarh, has been working at the British deputy high commission in Chandigarh since 2018. She holds a Master’s in Public Affairs from the University of Texas, Austin, USA. The Member of the Order of the British Empire (MBE) is awarded for an outstanding achievement or service to the community.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhs-mohini-singh-awarded-british-order-of-merit-101621944010680.html
25-05-2021||Pune||Civic Sanskriti: Games of change to redefine your perspective on garbage||The Zilla Parishad office has asked for suggestions on waste management. I think we need to play some games and conduct some workshops.The first game is Needs and Wants. Imagine that the city is to be evacuated and you have only a few hours to pack essentials. What will you take? Imagine, if you could only take 10 things or five items – what would they be? Do we really need all the things we acquire?The second game is Tales Tails Tell. Take an item, say a pair of jeans and put it on a flat surface like a bed or a table. Then add one or more “tails” behind it, with name cards, to show all the stages of production – from cotton (and water, seeds, fertiliser, pesticides) to cloth production. The metal rivets (mining, ore transport and refining, metal production, rivet production, transport) will be another tail. Add another for the zipper. Combine the tails to the fabrication of the jeans, the transport to the shop and your home. The idea is to realise that each stage produces waste and pollution. What is to be done with the jeans when one longer needs them?The third is the Segregation Game.Make a list of the items of waste produced in your house in a week. Classify each item as dry or wet. Do you already segregate these? Do we need more categories of bins?Red Dot Learn to place diapers and sanitary napkins into paper bags and mark these with a red dot so that waste collectors can safely deposit these for further processing.Experiment When will they degrade? Dig up a patch of soil about four to five inches deep and bury a banana peel, a piece of paper, a bit of plastic. Check on them after a couple of weeks and a couple of months. Wash before you bin Many people order food and dump the containers with leftover food right into the trash. It’s an invitation to flies, cockroaches, rats and ants. A little care to rinse out the food containers will help to keep your home more hygienic and improve the work conditions of those who have to handle the waste.Then we should have projects for the entire family and online workshops for each ward or neighbourhood. One, on how to set up a compost unit and another on how to set up a rooftop garden, where you can use the compost and also, keep your roof cool, and get some fresh veggies and herbs. How about a craft workshop to convert coconut fibre into kitchen scrubs, and coconut leaf fronds into brooms? Arrange a V-Collect Mela every few months to give away clothes, toys, electronics and household items you don’t need. Play SimCity in real life with a neighbourhood walk and a map to plan area-level waste management. The aim will be to place material recovery units, biochar units, and storage space for construction and demolition debris to be used when needed.Now is a good time to slow down and think these things and the materials in our lives. How would they continue their journey in the earth’s natural cycles once their productive life in our homes is done? When life was simple, we would classify waste as wet and dry, and be done with it. Dry waste included paper, plastic, metal, glass and wet waste, was just veggie peels and leftovers. For many years now, we use complex materials. Some packages lay aluminium and plastic to hold chips, while others pack paper and aluminium to hold liquids like milk or juice. Napkins and diapers are not made of cotton but layers of plastic with super absorbent polymer. Suitable solutions to manage complex wastes need some whole-of-system innovations, from producers to consumers to recyclers. We need to be smart with the materials we use and the systems we set up. Neighbourhood-scale, decentralised and humane methods of waste management that can function even during lockdowns. Collection of household waste should be done with non-polluting handcarts and wheelbarrows, avoiding trucks on diesel.We can start by working with the city and the Zilla Parishad to shift to Zero Waste. Each house or society should set up an individual or collective compost unit, keep dry waste clean and give to waste collectors for recycling; keep sanitary waste separate and mark it with a red dot; promote re-use of household items with V-Collects; and support safe working conditions and fair wages for waste collectors who help everyone lead a healthier life. Note: The ZP needs to strengthen the Covid Waste collection and management system too.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/civic-sanskriti-games-of-change-to-redefine-your-perspective-on-garbage-101621942693992.html
25-05-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan HC asks state to apprise on preventive measures against black fungus, issues notice||Concerned over the rapid rise in the cases of mucormycosis (black fungus), the Rajasthan High Court has issued a notice to the state government to inform it about the preventive steps being taken to deal with the disease, HT has learnt.The division bench of Justice Sabina and Justice MK Vyas passed the order while hearing a PIL filed by advocate Siddhartha Jain. The petition stated that the black fungus infection or mucormycosis mainly affects people who are on medication for other health problems that reduce their ability to fight environmental pathogens. While it is very rare, it can lead to the loss of the upper jaw and sometimes even the eyes. The second surge of the Covid-19 pandemic in the country has been more devastating than the first. Before the pandemic like Corona was over, another pandemic called mucormycosis (black fungus) took birth, which has hit more than 500 people in Rajasthan.Counsel for the petitioner Chitrank Sharma told the court that in view of the increasing cases of black fungus, the Rajasthan government has placed orders for the purchase of about 2,500 injections of Liposomal but mucormycosis patients have to take about 40 or more than 40 injections and it costs about 4-5 lakhs for the treatment. Due to this, many people were not able to get treated and lost their lives.“Due to the pandemic of black fungus, hundreds of people are facing innumerable problems in these challenging times, a major one of them is not getting proper treatment because of shortage of beds, medical oxygen, ventilators and medicinal drugs in the hospitals. Several people of the state are unable to get proper treatment or even basic medical care and the treatment of the black fungus pandemic is very costly,” he added.The petition has urged an increase in the availability of medicine and to provide appropriate medical facilities to the patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-hc-asks-state-to-apprise-on-preventive-measures-against-black-fungus-issues-notice-101621942271039.html
25-05-2021||Pune||Army recruitment paper leak: Pune court extends officer’s custody till May 28||A Pune court on Tuesday extended the police custody of the army officer arrested from Secunderabad, Telangana, in the army recruitment paper leak case. A total of 12 arrests have been made so far in the case since February 28 when the nationwide exam was supposed to be held at 40 centres with 30,000 aspirants.Lt Col Bhagat Preetsingh Sartajsingh Bedi’s remand has been extended till May 28. “He was presiding over the committee that was overseeing the exam procedure. He saw the paper, wrote the 50 questions by hand on a paper, and sent a photo of that to the earlier arrested person,” alleged public prosecutor Premkumar Agarwal.Lt Col Bedi allegedly sent the questions to a storekeeper from Delhi Cantonment, Vira Prasad Kotiswamy Narnepati (41), who was arrested on May 15. Narnepati’s police custody remand was also extended till May 28 by the same court on Monday.A source close to the investigation said the two may have destroyed both their phones used for the transactions after the police raids. Also Read | 13 minors fined for playing cricket during lockdown in Pune“They have consented to an extended custody so there was no argument from our side. They are cooperating with the investigation,” said defence advocate Sudhir Shah.According to Laxman Borate, assistant commissioner of police (ACP), crime, Narnepati allegedly received ₹700,000 for the questions, of which, he paid ₹300,000 to Bedi. “He paid ₹300,000 to the Lt Col for receiving the paper. But once police raids began and the exam was cancelled, he sent the remaining money back. All these transactions were in cash,” he said.The nationwide recruitment exam had to be cancelled hours before it was held.Two separate offences were registered, in Vishrantwadi police station, and Wanowrie police station respectively, under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code; Maharashtra Prevention of Malpractices at University Board and Other Specified Examination Act, 1982; Prevention of Corruption Act 1988 (2018 Amendment) and Information Technology Act.So far, the arrest of one person in both the cases has confirmed a link between the two cases.The army and the police are jointly probing the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/army-recruitment-paper-leak-pune-court-extends-officer-s-custody-till-may-28-101621941550503.html
25-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi adds 1,568 new Covid cases, 156 deaths; positivity rate drops to 2.14%||Delhi on Tuesday registered 1,568 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and 156 more fatalities, taking the Capital’s caseload and death toll to 1,419,986 and 23,565 respectively, according to the health department’s bulletin. As many as 4251 people recovered from the coronavirus disease on Tuesday and the total recoveries in the national capital have climbed to 1,374,682 while active cases have come down to 21,739, the bulletin also showed.The Covid-19 positivity rate in Delhi has further declined to 2.14%. Tuesday’s case count in Delhi has been the lowest since March 31, when 1819 people tested Covid-19 positive. The new cases on Tuesday are 18 less than that on Monday, when 1568 infections were recorded—the lowest single-day addition since March 30.Also Read| Arvind Kejriwal reviews preparations for Covid-19 third wave in DelhiThe health department’s bulletin showed 73,406 tests were conducted on Tuesday of which 47,494 are RT-PCR/CBNAAT/TrueNat tests while the remaining 25,912 are rapid antigen tests. Nearly 12,000 Covid-19 patients continue to remain under home isolation and the containment zones have come down to 39,640.Even though the Covid-19 graph has been declining in Delhi since the beginning of May, the national capital is currently struggling with cases of mucormycosis, commonly known as black fungus. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Monday that there are 500 cases of mucormycosis in the Capital and Delhi is currently facing a shortage of Amphotericin-B injections, which is used for treating the fatal disease. Delhi, unlike other states and Union Territories (UTs) in the country, has not yet declared mucormycosis as an epidemic.The Aam Aadmi Party-led government has designated three hospitals—Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan Hospital (LNJP), Guru Teg Bahadur Hospital (GTB) and Rajiv Gandhi Super Specialty Hospital—for treatment of patients infected with black fungus.Also Read| Top Delhi doctor gives tips to combat black fungus amid alarming rise in cases“However, these hospitals do not have sufficient injections to treat patients,” Kejriwal said while addressing reporters on Monday and added Delhi needs 2000 injections of Amphotericin-B daily but the Centre has only allotted 400-500.With regard to vaccination, over 5.14 million beneficiaries have been administered vaccine doses so far. Amid an acute shortage of doses, Delhi has currently suspended vaccination for those between 18-44 years of age.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-adds-1568-new-covid-cases-156-deaths-positivity-rate-drops-to-214-101621940634732.html
25-05-2021||Patna||Patna-based Rajni Ranjan showcases her Covid-19 inspired nail art, expresses gratitude for Sonu Sood||From safety reminders on social media posts to health messages through graffiti and artwork, many artists have come forward to raise awareness around coronavirus pandemic. And in one such unique initiative to support the cause, Patna-based artist Rajni Ranjan is using her creativity to educate the masses, one nail at a time.Ranjan, a professionally trained beautician and a self-taught freehand nail artist, recently posted pictures of her art that shows portraits of a nurse inoculating a patient painted on nails along with precautionary messages. She captioned the photo, “Let’s get your weapon and get armed to fight against this evil... Get vaccinated get shielded.”The 26-year old who aims to spread Covid-19 vaccination awareness with her innovative skills says, “I pick topical causes, newsy events and even festivals to spread the message through this medium of mine, and vaccination awareness is important in the present situation.”Ranjan also created another artwork thanking actor Sonu Sood for his exemplary efforts for helping those in need. With the actor’s portrait and message as ‘Sonu Sood – The Real Super Hero’ on each nail, the artist in her heartfelt note wrote, “If I can’t give back to the society, then this isn’t a good life I am leading.” – Sonu Sood. This man shows how your actions speak louder than words. @sonu_sood thank you for being there in hard times for everyone.” The actor also acknowledged her artistic craft on Twitter.The story of using nails as a canvas goes back to 2017, the year when Ranjan joined Instagram with a purpose to show her artistic side but with a twist. “When I joined the social media platform, I wanted to showcase my interest in art but with something different, so I started painting nails,” says Ranjan who directly paints own nails or artificial ones without designing a rough sketch. She also adds, “It takes up to 2-3 hours to complete one design. And if there are minor mistakes, those can be easily rectified similar to how we do on canvas.”As Ranjan has been doing nail art for the last 6-7 years as leisure pursuit, she also credits inheriting her father’s creative side for her artistic skills. “Papa used to do canvas painting as a hobby earlier, I think somehow I have got the talent and inspiration from him”, she says.She also aspires to get certified training in nail art and open a studio, and also give training to those interested in the profession.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/patnabased-rajni-ranjan-showcases-her-covid-19-inspired-nail-art-expresses-gratitude-for-sonu-sood-101621940774620.html
25-05-2021||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh to begin Covid unlocking process from June 1: CM||As the number of cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) is going down in Madhya Pradesh, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan announced on Tuesday that the state will begin the unlocking process from June 1. The lockdown-like restrictions, referred to as ‘Janata Curfew’ by the state government, are currently in force till May 31 in a majority of the districts, including the state capital of Bhopal. These restrictions have proven to break the chain of transmission as the daily cases and positivity rate have significantly reduced.Speaking at the state cabinet’s meeting, Chouhan said, “Madhya Pradesh is on the verge of gaining control over Covid-19. Friends, this has been made possible due to your hard work along with the efforts of the public, the crisis management committee and the administration.”Also Read| MP minister faces Cong ire after driver named in Remdevisir black marketing racketChouhan added that Madhya Pradesh on Tuesday recorded only 2424 new Covid-19 cases and 7,373 people recovered from the viral disease. The state’s recovery rate has climbed to 92.68% and nearly 15 districts are reporting less than 10 cases. Tuesday’s case count in the state is 512 less than that of Monday’s when 2936 people tested positive for the coronavirus disease. Last week, the daily cases in Madhya Pradesh hovered between 3,000-5,000.हमारा प्रयास रहे की #COVID19 के कम से कम प्रकरण आयें । यह तभी संभव होगा जब लोग कोविड अनुरूप व्यवहार का पालन करेंगे, मास्क लगाएं दूरी बनाए रखें बार-बार हाथ धोने की आदत डालें भीड़ इकट्ठी ना होने दें: CM#MPFightsCoronaAmid fears of an upcoming third wave of the pandemic in India, the chief minister said a process has to be formulated for the same and ministers who are also in charge of districts, should speak to the respective crisis management committee and plan on how the curfew will open. Chouhan added testing will continue with 75,000-80,000 samples being tested for Covid-19 every day in order to ensure that no infected person becomes a super spreader.Also Read| Daily Covid-19 cases in India fall below 2-lakh mark after 40 daysChouhan once again appealed to the state’s residents to follow Covid appropriate behaviour such as wearing masks, maintaining social distancing, washing and sanitising hands and said this is the only way through which cases will start declining. “If there are fewer people infected with Covid-19, arrangements will be made for contract tracing and their treatment in Covid care centres,” the Madhya Pradesh CM said.With a view to ensure better handling of the pandemic, the state government will form five committees which will include members of the council of ministers, Chouhan further said. These committees will manage vaccination drives, Covid-related practices, make arrangements for medical oxygen and other essentials, hospital management and public awareness about Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/covid19-madhya-pradesh-to-begin-unlocking-process-from-june-1-says-cmchouhan-101621938932124.html
25-05-2021||Chandigarh||YouTuber booked in Arunachal for racist remarks held in Ludhiana||YouTuber and social media influencer Paras Singh, alias Bunty, was arrested in Ludhiana on Tuesday for his racial remarks against a Congress MLA from Arunachal Pradesh and ill will towards the people of the state. Paras Singh, who goes by the name Paras Official on his YouTube channel, had in a video posted on Sunday termed Congress MLA Ninong Ering a non-Indian and apparently claimed that Arunachal Pradesh was a part of China, sparking furore among Arunchalees and people from other parts of the country. Also read: Aim to comply, discussing issues: Facebook on new social media guidelinesIn another video, posted on Monday, he apologised for his comments. “A case has been registered against Paras for racial hatred and the cyber crime branch in Itanagar is investigating the matter,” Arunachal Pradesh police chief RP Upadhyaya said. Paras Singh has 457k subscribers on his YouTube channel. Union minister of state for youth affairs and sports Kiren Rijiju confirmed Paras Singh’s arrest and tweeted that he has talked to the Ludhiana commissioner of police to speed up the process to hand over the accused to Arunachal Pradesh Police. Appalled, dismayed: Arunachal leaders Arunachal Pradesh chief minister Pema Khandu condemned the racial slur and said the “video aims at inciting ill will and hatred towards the people of Arunachal Pradesh”. Social media should be used with caution and any infringement will lead to action according to law, the CM added. State deputy chief minister Chowna Mein said he was “appalled and greatly dismayed” to see the YouTube post, which not just “casts doubt on the nationality of the Arunachal Pradesh MLA but also questions about the existence of the state within India”. “To doubt our nationality because of how we look is a problem most of us from the Northeast of India face regularly in the mainland. What we look like, how we dress, what we eat and how we live makes us no less Indian. We are proud to be a state in the Union of India where even in the interior most we greet each other with a Jai Hind and primary schoolchildren even in the border villages sing Saare Jahaan se Achha, Hindustan Hamara with pride,” he said on his official Twitter handle. More legal trouble for YouTuber Paras Singh had apparently made the comments while reacting to a letter written by Ering to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, wherein he had sought a ban on the relaunch of PUBG Mobile as Battlegrounds Mobile India. The Pasighat East MLA, when contacted, said he would file a case against Paras Singh. The All-Arunachal Pradesh Students’ Union (AAPSU) issued a statement to say that the people of the state are hurt by the remarks. “Such incidents are not isolated ones and have been happening time and again in various parts of the country. It is distressing that even after over 70 years of the country’s independence, people from the state and the northeast region in general face humiliation in other parts of the country, whenever they go there for work or study,” the joint statement by AAPSU president Hawa Bagang and general secretary Tabom Dai said. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/youtuber-booked-in-arunchal-for-racist-remarks-held-in-ludhiana-101621934890336.html
25-05-2021||Delhi||Sushil Kumar suspended by Northern Railway after arrest in murder case||Two-time Olympic medallist Sushil Kumar, a senior commercial manager with the Northern Railway, has been suspended following his arrest by the Delhi Police in connection with the murder of a fellow wrestler, a spokesperson said on Tuesday. “Sushil Kumar has been suspended from his job at Northern Railway as criminal offence investigation against him is underway,” Deepak Kumar said, according to news agency ANI.Sushil Kumar, on the run for nearly three weeks, was arrested on Sunday for his alleged involvement in the death of a 23-year-old wrestler at Chhatrasal Stadium, along with co-accused Ajay from outer Delhi's Mundka area.Also read | Sushil Kumar cried in lock-up, was up all night: PoliceKumar had been on deputation with the Delhi government since 2015 and was posted as an officer on special duty (OSD) at Chhatrasal Stadium for development of sports at school level. His deputation was extended last year and he applied for an extension for 2021 as well which had been rejected by the Delhi government and he was sent back to his parent cadre of Northern Railway, news agency PTI cited officials as saying.Also read | Court denies pre-arrest bail for on-the-run Olympics hero Sushil KumarOn Tuesday, Kumar and his aide Ajay were taken to the Chhatrasal Stadium by the officers of the Delhi Police’s Crime Branch to recreate the crime scene where they had allegedly thrashed Sagar Dhankad to death late on May 4. They were also taken to Shalimar Bagh where they are believed to have rushed to after the murder, before fleeing Delhi, officials probing the crime said. "Kumar was also taken to the spot to recreate the scene of crime and ascertain the sequence of events that unfolded on the day of incident," a senior police officer was quoted as saying by PTI.Also read | 'Sushil Kumar seemed nervous, changed statements during interrogation': PoliceKumar was interrogated for almost four hours on Monday to ascertain the sequence of events on May 4 which led to the crime and also about his whereabouts after the incident. "He was also questioned about his associates and friends who helped him to hide. He will be taken to the spot for recreating the crime scene,” the officer mentioned above said.Dhankad died early on May 5, hours after he and his two friends were thrashed allegedly by Kumar and his associates. Police have found that dispute over a flat in Model Town owned by Kumar, where Dhankad lived, had snowballed into a clash between the two groups.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/sushil-kumar-suspended-by-northern-railway-after-arrest-in-murder-case-101621932798906.html
25-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra to get 60,000 vials of medicine for mucormycosis from June 1: Tope||Maharashtra Health Minister Rajesh Tope on Tuesday said the state would get 60,000 vials of Amphotericin-B, the key drug for the treatment of mucormycosis patients, from June 1 onwards. There are 2,245 patients of mucormycosis, also known as the black fungus, in Maharashtra, Tope told reporters after attending a review meeting on the mucormycosis and Covid-19 cases in the state. Tope said the state has floated a global tender for procuring Amphotericin-B vials for the treatment of mucormycosis. "The state would get 60,000 vials of the medicine from June 1 onwards. It will be an additional supply apart from the current allocation of the medicine by the Centre," he said. The minister said there are 2,245 patients of black fungus in the state and out of them, 1,007 are already covered under the Mahatma Jyotirao Phule Jan Arogya Yojana (MJPJAY), he said. “The entire cost of the treatment of mucormycosis patients under the MJPJAY will be free of cost, including the cost of the medicine. The state is also trying to cap the cost of treatment of mucormycosis patients who are admitted in private hospitals,” he said. Tope said the Maharashtra government has issued a GR (government resolution) regarding such treatment and the finance department has allocated ₹30 crore for the same. There have been several cases of mucormycosis, a rare but serious fungal infection, among Covid-19 patients in Maharashtra and some other states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-to-get-60-000-vials-of-medicine-for-mucormycosis-from-june-1-tope-101621933143929.html
25-05-2021||Kolkata||Buddhadeb Bhattacharya hospitalised with Covid-19 as condition deteriorates||Former West Bengal chief minister Buddhadeb Bhattacharya,77, who was being treated at home for Covid-19, was admitted at a private hospital in south Kolkata on Tuesday afternoon after his oxygen saturation level dropped below 90%, said hospital authorities.The former CM was admitted around 12.30pm and put on a non-invasive ventilator. A CT scan of his lungs was also done.“Bhattacharya is stable right now. A panel of six doctors has been formed for his treatment,” said Dr Rupali Basu, CEO of Woodlands Hospital where he is admitted.The former CM and his wife Mira Bhattacharya, 71, tested positive for Covid-19 on May 18. While Bhattacharya was treated at home, his wife was admitted at Woodlands Hospital the same night. She was released on Monday.Also Read | HT Editorial: Not Ayurveda vs allopathyBhattacharya, one of the most senior leaders of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) or CPI(M), is a patient of Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD). His movements are restricted.“Though the carbon dioxide level in his blood is not very high, COPD can make things difficult for a Covid patient. We are using injectable steroid and antibiotics. Since steroids can increase blood sugar level, we have to administer insulin as well. We have to keep in mind his age and comorbid conditions,” said Dr Kaushik Chakraborty, one of the doctors in the panel.CPI(M) leaders said Bhattacharya was not ready to go to the hospital but the party’s state secretary Surjya Kanta Mishra, who is also a doctor, convinced the former chief minister and told him that he cannot be treated at home anymore.In October last year, Bhattacharya was admitted to the hospital for six days in a critical condition with symptoms such as breathlessness and low oxygen count in the blood. He was put on ventilation. However, his condition improved very fast.“The CT scan report showed that COPD has affected his lungs further since October,” said Dr Chakraborty. Bhattacharya had tested negative for Covid-19 in October.The medical attendant who looked after the ailing leader has also tested positive for Covid-19 but his condition is not serious, doctors said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/former-bengal-cm-buddhadeb-bhattacharya-hospitalised-with-covid19-101621933330609.html
25-05-2021||Lucknow||No examination without vaccination, says Akhilesh Yadav||The Samajwadi Party said on Tuesday that students should be inoculated against the coronavirus before board exams are conducted, with its president Akhilesh Yadav asserting "no examination without vaccination".As the government is in the process of taking a decision on the Class 12 board exams and subsequent entrance tests that were postponed due to the second wave of Covid-19, a demand has been made from some quarters that if the exams are to be held, the students be vaccinated first."Pahle tika, fir pariksha (first vaccination, then examination). No Examination Without Vaccination," Yadav tweeted.Demanding vaccination of students, Samajwadi Party MLC Udaiveer Singh said, "The central government should not play with lives of students."At a high-level meeting called by the Ministry of Education earlier this week, Delhi, Kerala and some others demanded vaccination of students before the exam.After the meeting on Sunday, Union Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ said there is a broad consensus among states about conducting Class 12 board exams and an “informed, collaborative” decision will be taken by June 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/no-examination-without-vaccination-says-akhilesh-yadav-101621931577870.html
25-05-2021||Lucknow||UP Panchayat polls:New village heads to be sworn in virtually||Uttar Pradesh’s newly elected village pradhans and ward members will be sworn in through a video conference on Tuesday and Wednesday. District magistrates have issued notification to reconstitute all the village panchayats where pradhans and at least two-thirds of the members have been elected. After this the newly-formed village panchayats will hold their first meeting throughout the state on Thursday, May 27, in accordance with the two notifications, issued by the state government, asking districts magistrates to make necessary arrangements for the virtual swearing-in of village heads and members as well as holding of the new panchayats’ first meeting.The Panchayat polls in UP for over 8.69 lakh posts were held in four phases between April 15 and April 29. Counting of votes was held on May 2.The three tier rural governance system elected public representatives from the village to the district level in a curtain-raiser to the 2022 state assembly polls. The ruling BJP did not perform as per expectations and posted losses in strongholds such as Ayodhya, Varanasi, Lucknow and Gorakhpur.The oath-related notification issued by additional chief secretary (Panchayati Raj) Manoj Kumar Singh, says it will not be desirable to call 58,176 newly elected pradhans and 7,31,813 ward members to the blocks to administer them oath amid the Covid-19 pandemic outbreak.“Therefore, it has been decided after due consideration that officials nominated by DMs will administer oath, virtually, to pradhans and members who will be connected to the blocks through laptops etc that panchayat secretaries will arrange in villages’ panchayat bhawans, community centres etc on May 25 and May 26,” the circular stated.The other notification asked DMs to ensure that all newly constituted village panchayats necessarily convene their first meeting on May 27 after pradhans and members take oath. It also asked DMs to ensure that the constitution of six village committees was on the panchayat’s agenda for the first meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uppanchayat-polls-new-village-heads-to-be-sworn-in-virtually-101621931230966.html
25-05-2021||Other||Tripura man accused of abducting, raping differently abled minor arrested||Tripura Police arrested a 29-year-old man accused of abducting and raping a 15-year-old differently abled girl at a village in North district of Tripura. The man, identified as one Jasimuddin, is currently in judicial custody. Police said that the girl’s brother lodged a complaint against Jasimuddin on May 23. On the basis of the complaint, police registered a case under Section 366(A) (procuration of a minor girl) , 376 (rape) of Indian Penal Code and 4 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act (POCSO) Act and arrested Jasimuddin. Also Read | Minor gang raped, three arrestedDuring the preliminary investigation, they found that Jasimuddin introduced himself as Tenu Das to the girl. He used to work as plumber near her house. Police added that Jasimuddin said that he married the girl and they lived together. “ We arrested him on Sunday and sent him to court the next day. We are investigating the matter,” said North superintendent of police Bhanupada Chakraborty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tripura-man-accused-of-abducting-raping-differently-abled-minor-arrested-101621930990869.html
25-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi Police take Sushil Kumar to Chhatrasal Stadium to recreate scene of crime||Delhi Police teams on Tuesday took arrested wrestler Sushil Kumar and his aide Ajay to Chhatrasal stadium where they had allegedly thrashed to death wrestler Sagar Dhankad on the night of May 4, to recreate the scene of crime. They were also taken to Shalimar Bagh where they are believed to have rushed to after the murder, before fleeing Delhi, officials probing the crime said.Sushil Kumar and Ajay, who were both arrested on Sunday after being on the run for 19 days, were questioned on the basis of the recovered footage of the murder to establish the sequence of events and identify others who were involved, a senior police officer said. Also Read | Sushil Kumar cried in lock-up, was up all night: PoliceDhankad died early morning on May 5, hours after he and his two friends Sonu and Amit Kumar were thrashed allegedly by Kumar and his associates. Police have found that dispute over a flat in Model Town owned by Kumar, where Dhankad lived, had snowballed into a clash between the two groups. Kumar and six others were absconding after the murder. A cash reward of ₹1 lakh was also announced on Kumar’s arrest. A non-bailable warrant and a look out circular was also issued against him earlier this month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-police-take-sushil-kumar-to-chhatrasal-stadium-to-recreate-scene-of-crime-101621930210174.html
25-05-2021||Chandigarh||19-year-old ambulance driver killed in oxygen cylinder blast in Moga||A 19-year-old ambulance driver was killed when an oxygen cylinder exploded at the house of a Covid-19 patient at Kokri Vehnival village in Moga district, police said on Tuesday. The driver, Satnam Singh, had just brought the patient home from a private hospital and was checking the cylinder kept in the house when the blast occurred late on Monday night. The patient was in the ambulance and escaped unhurt. Also read: Medical students stuck in India seek help to take exams in BangladeshSatnam’s father Avtar Singh said, “The elderly patient was on oxygen support in a private hospital of Moga. But when his health deteriorated, he was referred to a level-3 hospital. The family, however, decided to take him home.” “My son was assigned the task of driving him back home. Once there, the patient requested my son to check the oxygen cylinder as there was no technical staff of the hospital with him. The cylinder exploded in the process and my young son died on the spot,” he said. Avtar Singh was at the civil hospital in Moga with relatives to collect the body after the post-mortem. The use of storing oxygen cylinders at home is not allowed in Punjab. State health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu announced on Monday that oxygen concentrators will be issued for use at home on the advice of a doctor for patients post Covid-19 recovery. Oxygen cylinders are not allowed for patients in home isolation. They are to be taken to hospital to for oxygen supply Deputy superintendent of police (city) Barjinder Singh was at the civil hospital to investigate the case. “I have informed the sub divisional magistrate and station house officer of the police station concerned to initiate further action,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/19yearold-ambulance-driver-killed-in-oxygen-cylinder-blast-in-moga-101621928590165.html
25-05-2021||Jaipur||Ensure more Covid-19 vaccines are available to states: Rajasthan CM Gehlot to centre||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot said on Tuesday that the Union Health Ministry should provide more vaccines to states instead of highlighting vaccination statistics. Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan should have put vaccine production on top priority and if necessary, more companies should be allowed and encouraged to produce vaccines by changing the law, he said."The Union Health Ministry should leave statistics and ensure more vaccines are available to the states. If the third wave affects children, then the country will never forgive," Gehlot tweeted. In a country with a population of 130 crore, if vaccines are not provided soon and the third wave of coronavirus starts affecting children, then the situation of lack of oxygen and medicines will be worse than the second wave and saving children lives will be difficult, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/ensure-more-covid-19-vaccines-are-available-to-states-rajasthan-cm-gehlot-to-centre-101621926146902.html
25-05-2021||Bangalore||Covid-19: Karnataka receives 300,000 Covishield vaccine doses from centre||Karnataka has received three lakh additional Covishield doses from the Centre, for the 45 plus age group, Health Minister K Sudhakar said on Tuesday. In a tweet, the minister said, "Karnataka received 3 lakh doses of Covishield today under the Central quota. Total Covishield doses received from the Centre is 1.05 crore. Total Covishield purchased directly by the state is 13.54 lakh."According to Sudhakar, the state government has received 13.1 lakh Covaxin doses so far. The state government has placed an order of 3 crore vaccines comprising two crore Covishield and one crore Covaxin. In addition, the state has decided to float a global tender for two crore vaccines. There is an acute shortage of vaccines in the state which forced the government to suspend the vaccination drive for 18 to 44 except the frontline workers and a select group of people. In order to meet the requirement, the government invited Bharat Biotech to set up its Covaxin manufacturing unit at Malur in Kolar. The unit under construction is likely to have four to five crore doses a month by the end of August. The state has set a target to vaccinate all the eligible groups by the year end. Karnataka is among the states with high Covid prevalence. The state on Monday reported 25,311 new infections and 529 fatalities. There are 4.40 lakh active cases in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/covid19-karnataka-receives-300-000-covishield-vaccine-doses-from-centre-101621925751595.html
25-05-2021||Chandigarh||Milkha Singh stable, on low-flow oxygen in Mohali hospital||A day after legendary athlete Milkha Singh was admitted to Fortis Hospital, Mohali, it is learnt that his condition is stable and he is on low-flow oxygen. Milkha, 91, complained of discomfort on Monday morning after which he was admitted to the intensive care unit of the hospital with Covid pneumonia. Earlier, he was recovering in isolation at his house in Sector 8, Chandigarh. Also read: Mucormycosis treatment challenges, oxygen therapy link: Top doctor lists outHis son and golfer Jeev Milkha said that the move to hospital was precautionary. “He’s weak and not eating well since Sunday, so we had to hospitalise him. We thought it’s safer to have him admitted where he would be under supervision of senior doctors and recover well,” he said. The Olympian is said to have contracted the virus from a staff member at his residence. Other family members tested negative, while Milkha’s RT-PCR test came out positive. Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, Chandigarh, provided a home attendant and oxygen facility. Milkha Singh is the only Indian athlete to have won an individual Commonwealth Games gold on the track, after claiming the 440 yards race at Cardiff in 1958. He has also won four Asian Games titles, including the 200-400 double in 1958 and the 400m in 1962. His greatest performance was finishing fourth in the 400m final at the 1960 Rome Olympics, missing out on the bronze by 1/10th of a second. Known as the Flying Sikh, he’s the first Indian athlete to get the Padam Shri in 1959.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/milkha-singh-stable-on-low-flow-oxygen-in-mohali-hospital-101621924089874.html
25-05-2021||Ranchi||BJP hits out at Jharkhand CM Soren for his free shrouds pledge||The opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has hit out at Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren for his announcement for free shrouds to those who die of Covid, saying the government should instead provide free treatment and medicines.Soren made the announcement at a virtual review meeting with his ministers on Monday.Also Read | Jharkhand facing vaccine shortage, 3 days’ stock left for 18- 44 group, says CMThe BJP reminded the government it needs to focus on the treatment of people. “Your statement regarding distributing free shrouds is shocking and painful for people. Lives of at least 100-200 people would have been saved had you ensured that private hospitals in Ranchi and other places treat at least five poor Dalit and tribal patients,” said BJP legislature party leader Babulal Marandi.BJP spokesperson Kunal Sarangi said the government should instead focus on strengthening health care. “As per the seventh schedule, public health and sanitation come under the state government. Instead of improving it, the Hemant Soren government is playing with the emotions of people,” said Sarangi.Ruling Jharkhand Mukti Morcha leaders were not immediately available for comments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/bjp-hits-out-at-jharkhand-cm-soren-for-his-free-shrouds-pledge-101621923609870.html
25-05-2021||Lucknow||UP ministers, MLAs adopt health centres; Sonia Gandhi sends wood to cremate poor||While Uttar Pradesh ministers and lawmakers are adopting government healthcare centres to help improve the healthcare infrastructure in the state amid the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic, the Congress president, Sonia Gandhi, has sent three truckloads of wood to help the poor cremate their dead in Rae Bareli, her Lok Sabha constituency. Several UP ministers have responded to chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s appeal asking Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MLAs to adopt government-run primary or community health centres (PHCs or CHCs). UP has nearly 3,500 PHCs and around 850 CHCs, most of them in dilapidated condition without adequate manpower. A right to information (RTI) query in 2015 also revealed that the state had very few health centres compared to its population. A health department official said the situation hasn’t improved much since. On Monday, basic education minister Satish Dwivedi and minorities welfare minister Mohsin Raza announced adoption of health centres in Itwa in Siddharth Nagar district, from where Dwivedi is an MLA, and Safipur in Unnao, Raza’s home town. “I will do my best to better the medical facilities and infrastructure in this CHC,” Raza said, adding he had intimated his decision to the chief minister. Dwivedi said he planned to demolish the old health centre building in Itwa and replace it with a new one.Ved Prakash Gupta, the BJP lawmaker from Ayodhya who has just recovered from Covid, too, confirmed he was adopting one health centre while several other lawmakers said they were finalising the adoption. “I have adopted PHC at Pura Bazaar, located where an Azamgarh-Ayodhya four lane road is coming up. We also intend to set up a trauma centre there in due course,” Gupta said. BJP MLC and party vice president Vijay Bahadur Pathak said he had adopted a PHC in Azamgarh. “We are committed to improving facilities in health care,” Pathak said. There are indications that Yogi Adityanath, too, might adopt a CHC or a PHC.Meanwhile, Congress chief Sonia Gandhi sent three truckloads of wood to enable the poor to cremate their dead in Rae Bareli. “Sonia ji had directed her representative KL Sharma ji to arrange wood for cremation and now the party cadres will help the poor in cremating their near and dear ones,” said party spokesman Vinay Dwivedi.Cremation in Rae Bareli takes place at Gokna, Dalmau and Gegaso ghats on the banks of the Ganga and many poor people are burying their dead by the riverside in absence of money to buy firewood for their last rites. Several bodies of suspected Covid-19 patients were seen floating in Ganga at several places in UP earlier this month, prompting administration to step in with help to cremate bodies.The Yogi government has announced ₹5,000 for cremation of all the poor in the villages, while the state’s labour welfare council too has separately announced ₹7,500 for the purpose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-ministers-mlas-adopt-health-centres-sonia-gandhi-sends-wood-to-cremate-poor-101621923369984.html
25-05-2021||Mumbai||Illegal phone tapping: Mumbai Police record Rashmi Shukla’s statement in Hyd||The Mumbai cyber police have recorded the statement of Indian Police Service (IPS) officer Rashmi Shukla in connection with the alleged illegal phone tapping and confidential report leak. Shukla, who is presently on central deputation and posted as additional director general of Central Reserve Police Force’s (CRPF) in Hyderabad, has refuted the allegations, people aware of the matter said.Shukla was summoned twice for questioning, but she cited the pandemic and her responsibilities in CRPF to express her inability to have her statement recorded. She later moved the Bombay high court against the summons, but it granted permission to the Mumbai Police to record her statement in Hyderabad.Shukla did not respond to HT’s calls and text messages.Also Read | ATS head for Antilia case is Thane top copThe cyber police on March 26 filed a case on a state intelligence department (SID) complaint against unknown persons for allegedly leaking the report submitted by Shukla, over the purported payments for transfers within the police department when she was the commissioner of intelligence in August 2020. Shukla’s report named senior politicians, middlemen, and police officers, who allegedly sought transfers and postings of their liking. The report referred to “monetary exchange” between officers and middlemen acting in close connection with politicians.Home department officials said that the copy that was reportedly leaked was the SID’s office copy and did not bear Shukla’s signature.Maharashtra chief secretary Sitaram Kunte submitted a report to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, detailing the circumstances in which Shukla created the report. Kunte’s report added Shukla intercepted calls of six persons in the name of “public safety” and thus “misguided the authorities”. It said no transfers of police officers took place between June 27 and September 1, 2020, the period in which the calls were intercepted.Kunte’s report questioned whether Shukla had leaked the report. It said if that were the case then she would be liable for “strict action”. “The report leak had led to breach of privacy and defamation of the officers whose names have been mentioned in it. The deals for the transfers mentioned in it and actual transfers done by the government differ. This proves that there was no question of any scam in the transfers,” Kunte’s report said.Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis has said Shukla sought proper permissions from the then additional chief secretary (home) and intercepted the phone calls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/illegal-phone-tapping-mumbai-police-record-rashmi-shukla-s-statement-in-hyd-101621923309893.html
25-05-2021||Kolkata||SC to hear plea seeking SIT probe into alleged post-poll violence in West Bengal||The Supreme Court will hear on Tuesday petitions seeking the constitution of a Special Investigation Team (SIT) to probe the alleged post-poll violence that took place in West Bengal. The top court will also look into accusations that the state government was complicit and overlooked these incidents, news agency ANI reported.While the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) accused the Trinamool Congress (TMC) of "targeted killings", the Mamata Banerjee-led party said the BJP was spreading fake news on social media.Also Read: No post-poll violence after May 8, Bengal govt tells HCThe BJP shared on social media images of bodies of party workers in North 24 Parganas district’s Amdanga assembly constituency, Kotulpur in Bankura district and Mothabari area of Malda district and accused the TMC of killing them. Police probe into the incidents resulted in the conclusion that these deaths were either by suicide or drowning accidentally.  “Spreading fake news, morphed photographs and edited videos is an old practice of the BJP. Even when a debt-ridden farmer commits suicide or a man takes his own life after a failed affair, the BJP sees an opportunity to create a sensation,” TMC MLA and party spokesperson Tapas Roy had said. Following a judgement of the Calcutta high court that said the state had taken steps to contain violence, Bengal BJP’s chief spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya said, “Having highest respect for the court, I would like to say that its observation is surprising. The court should send its representatives to those areas where the TMC has unleashed terror. Women are being raped and molested. Shops and farms are being looted and ransacked so that our workers lose their source of income...Banerjee and her police are giving wrong information to the people to hide the truth.”Also Read: In Bengal’s post-poll political violence, a battle of narrativesA two-judge vacation bench of the apex court, headed by Justice Vineet Saran and comprising Justice B R Gavai, will hear the petitions filed by Arun Mukherjee, Debjani Halder, Bhupen Halder, Prosanta Das and Paramita Dey.These petitions, in addition to demanding that an SIT be formed to probe the incidents, also sought direction from the chief secretary, government of West Bengal and the Centre, to provide immediate relief to the internally displaced persons affected due to post-poll violence by setting up camps, making provision for food, medicines, pandemic resources, and making appropriate medical facilities accessible to them in light of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, ANI reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/sc-to-hear-petitions-of-political-violence-in-west-bengal-today-101621918779399.html
25-05-2021||Other||Cyclone Yaas inches closer, West Bengal to evacuate around a million people||Around a million people are likely to be evacuated and taken to cyclone shelters in West Bengal before very severe cyclone Yaas hits the West Bengal-Odisha coast on Wednesday noon. “Evacuation process has already started and we plan to evacuate around a million people before the cyclone hits on Wednesday noon,” said a senior official of the state government. On Monday, the administration started moving people living on some of the remote islands in the Sunderban delta and on islands, such as Ghoramara, located close to the confluence of the River Ganges and the Bay of Bengal. “The sea and the river get very rough as a cyclone approaches and hence people living on Ghoramara Island had to be evacuated on Monday,” said a senior official of the South 24 Parganas district administration. In the early hours of Tuesday, the cyclone was located around 450 km south-east of the West Bengal coast. “From a cyclone, Yaas has already intensified into a severe cyclone. It is likely to intensify further into a very severe cyclone and is expected to hit the land somewhere around Balasore in Odisha on Wednesday noon,” said a senior official of the Indian Meteorological Department’s regional office in Kolkata. Click here for LIVE Updates on Cyclone YaasChief minister Mamata Banerjee said on Monday that around 20 districts, including those in north Bengal, would be affected. The worst affected would be the coastal districts of East Midnapore, South 24 Parganas and North 24 Parganas. Winds with speed reaching up to 70-80 kmph and gusting up to 90 kmph are likely to hit Kolkata on Wednesday. Rain and strong winds have already started in the coastal areas and the sea has turned rough. In East Midnapore which is located closest to Balasore, the wind speed may reach up to 155 - 165 kmph gusting up to 185 kmph. In some areas, such as Gosaba Island in the Sunderban delta, block administration has evacuated pregnant women and shifted them to ‘mother hubs’ on Monday. “As Covid-19 is taking a heavy toll we have arranged separate facilities for pregnant women, particularly those whose estimated date of delivery is very close. Also, this time safe homes and quarantine centres have been set up to isolate suspected and confirmed Covid-19 cases,” said a senior official of Gosaba in the Sunderbans. What is a cause of concern for the administration is the cyclone coinciding with the spring tide phase during the full moon, sp the storm surge could be higher and more devastating this time. In May 2020, when cyclone Amphan hit the state, low tide was prevailing. Hence, the storm surge was not so high even though the gale was strong. “The water level is already high because of the spring tide and once the cyclone hits, we are expecting waves at least 2-4 m high at East Midnapore district which shares its boundary with Odisha. In North 24 Parganas and South 24 Parganas, the storm surge would be 1-2 m high,” said an official of the meteorological department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cyclone-yaas-inches-closer-west-bengal-to-evacuate-around-a-million-people-101621919050277.html
25-05-2021||Patna||25 ventilators sent by Centre 9 months ago finally installed at Bihar hospital||The 25 ventilators received nine months ago under PM CARES Fund finally became operational on Monday at the Darbhanga Medical College and Hospital (DMCH), the largest government hospital in north Bihar.Hospital officials have maintained that the installation was delayed due to paucity of oxygen supply and other technical issues. While the hospital has been in the news for alleged poor state of affairs, the ventilators provided under the PM CARES fund too have been questioned by several states over their quality. The Centre, however, has blamed lack of technical knowhow as the chief reason for problems faced by the states. DMCH medical superintendent Mani Bhushan Sharma too was on record having accepted a lack of manpower to handle ventilators.Darbhanga district magistrate (DM) Thiyagarajan SM, himself a doctor, said the oxygen cylinder manifold system from the old surgical wing was shifted to Covid care wing, which also has a 25-bed ICU, after completion of necessary civil works.“Earlier, doctors had complained that the consumption of oxygen in the ventilators was high. The complaint has been redressed,” said DMCH superintendent Dr Manibhushan Sharma.He said two patients have now been placed on the ventilators received from PM CARES Fund.Three ventilator technicians, one biomedical engineer, four paramedics and three technicians to run the new manifold oxygen plant have been roped in by DMCH to run the new ICU efficiently, Sharma said.The total number of ventilators at the DMCH has now gone up to 32.On Monday, 2,844 people were reported to have tested positive for Covid-19 infection in the last 24 hours, raising the state’s tally to over 692,000 cases. The disease also claimed 93 more lives in Bihar raising the death toll to 4,642.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/25-ventilators-sent-by-centre-9-months-ago-finally-installed-at-bihar-hospital-101621916769552.html
25-05-2021||Patna||19 new cases of black fungus in Bihar, total rises to 201||Bihar has reported 19 new cases of Mucormycosis or black fungus on Monday, taking the total number of patients to 201. The state also registered one death, taking the death toll from the disease to five.Seven new black fungus cases were reported from Patna’s All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), four at the Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (IGIMS), three at the Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College Hospital in Bhagalpur, one from the Darbhanga Medical College Hospital (DMCH) and four from different private health facilities in Patna, said state health officials, adding other details were awaited. Black fungus is a life-threatening opportunistic fungal infection and according to the Union health ministry, India currently has 5,424 cases among Covid-19 patients spread across 18 states and Union territories. 4,556 of these patients have a history of Covid-19 infection and 55% of them had diabetes. Mucormycosis, if left untreated, can kill up to 80% of those infected. In others, it can lead to loss of eyesight and deformity of facial structures as doctors debride or remove the dead tissues. It usually affects the nose, eye, and then moves on to the brain.The Bihar government on May 22 declared black fungus a notifiable disease under the epidemic diseases act. On May 18, it designated the AIIMS at Patna and the IGIMS, as centres of excellence for the treatment of the fungal infection in the state. Several other states have also declared Mucormycosis as an epidemic.Bihar reported the first casualty due to suspected Mucormycosis when a 58-year-old man from Kaimur, admitted at the AIIMS, died on May 12. A doctor, who was undergoing treatment at the Ruban Memorial Hospital, a private health facility in Patna, also died of black fungus on May 17. Two deaths of patients from Chapra and Patna were reported at the IGIMS on May 23. AIIMS Patna has already created a separate 30-bed ward for treatment of cases of black fungus, which have been rising rapidly from the end of April.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/19-new-cases-of-black-fungus-in-bihar-total-rises-to-201-101621914969563.html
25-05-2021||Delhi||Windy day ahead; Delhi AQI in moderate category today||Strong surface winds are likely to prevail on Tuesday as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast. The minimum temperature on Tuesday is likely to be 23 degrees Celsius (°C) while the maximum temperature is predicted to hover around 37°C. The minimum temperature on Monday was 21.2°C and the maximum temperature was 36°C. Delhi’s air quality was in the moderate category on Tuesday morning. Data from Central Pollution Control Board showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 7am stood at 132. On Monday, the average 24-hour AQI stood at 169 in the moderate category. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered good, 51 and 100 satisfactory, 101 and 200 moderate, 201 and 300 poor, 301 and 400 very poor, and 401 and 500 severe.Also Read | Centre allows walk-in vaccines for all adultsAccording to the early air quality warning system for Delhi-NCR, the air quality is likely to remain in the moderate category on Tuesday and Wednesday. Clear sky and strong winds on Tuesday are favourable for higher dust concentration, as per the warning system. Subsequently, the air quality is likely to remain in the moderate to poor category over the next five days.On Monday, the Union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar) said, “Strong southwesterly winds are forecasted for the next three days, local dust uplifting and long-range transport from dry arid regions are likely to increase. High winds, high boundary layer height are likely to influence AQI positively and high dust emission negatively. AQI is forecasted to stay in the moderate category with short spells of high dust concentration for the next three days.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/windy-day-ahead-delhi-aqi-in-moderate-category-today-101621911069597.html
25-05-2021||Chandigarh||Black Fungus: Chandigarh orders 2,000 vials of Amphotericin B||Advisor of Chandigarh Administration, Manoj Parida on Monday informed that Union Territory has placed an order for 2,000 vials of Liposomal Amphotericin B injection, a drug which is used in treatment of black fungus.The Advisor informed that, the order of Amphotericin B injection is being placed with Mylan company."We have placed an order for 2,000 vials of Liposomal Amphotericin B injection with Mylan company for supply costing about ₹1.2 crores. We have followed Punjab tender rates," said Parida."Of 62 patients of Mucormycosis admitted, 10 are from Chandigarh," he added.Further speaking about restriction in the Union Territory, Parida informed that salons, barbershops, spas, and malls will continue to remain closed."It is clarified that salons, barbershops, spa, and malls will continue to remain closed. Non-essential shops like auto service centres are allowed to be open till 3.00 pm only" said"All essential shops like chemists, groceries can remain open till 5:00 P.M. Only non-essential to close at 3:00 pm" he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/black-fungus-chandigarh-orders-2-000-vials-of-amphotericin-b-101621906769785.html
25-05-2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand facing vaccine shortage, 3 days' stock left for 18- 44 group: CM||Hitting out at the Centre, Jharkhand Chief Minister Hemant Soren said on Monday that the state was facing a severe shortage of Covid vaccines and has barely two-three days of shots for the 18-44 age group left in its stock.Chairing a cabinet meeting, Soren said the Centre failed to alert states and take necessary measures even as it had prior knowledge of the second wave of the pandemic."The Government of India knew about the (second wave of the) infection but there was much delay in directions to the states and ultimately the entire country was impacted by it," he said, chairing a meeting of his Cabinet Minister."We were suggested that there should not be any lockdown in the country but given the rate of infections, the state governments started taking their own decisions. Today there are partial or complete lockdowns (in every state)," he added.The chief minister said that Jharkhand got barely 40 lakh doses of vaccines against a requirement of 4 crore doses, leading to the shortage.Only a week or ten days' stock of vaccines are left for people above 45 years of age, while two-three days of stock is left for the 18-44 age group, he added.However, the state government would make serious efforts to procure the required quantity of vaccines, including through imports, he said.Soren said the state government would soon make a decision on extending the lockdown as 23 of its 24 districts share borders with either Odisha, Bihar, West Bengal, Uttar Pradesh or Chattisgarh, which are severely affected.Every day about 20,000 people are coming to the state through the railways and to combat the spread, Jharkhand has decided to intensify testing in rural areas on a war footing, Soren said.In urban areas, he said, the chain of the virus has been broken and fresh cases have reduced drastically to around 2,000 from earlier 15,000-20,000 a day."As far as death rates are concerned, we are the top in the country. UP and Bihar are reporting fewer deaths but you can assess if it is true. Many states are manipulating data but it is the priority of our government that we will ensure full transparency and take all possible steps to contain the virus," Soren said."Till the time a single death takes place in the state, we will consider it as peak," he said, adding that 'kafans' (shroud to cover bodies) would be made available to the people free of cost as there were reports of people facing difficulties in getting them.Sounds of sirens of ambulances could only be heard in state capital Ranchi a month back but now the situation has changed, he claimed.The second wave proved much fatal for the state and people lost their relatives, friends and loved ones, Soren said."Jharkhand was barely able to face the first wave when it was attacked by the second wave. However, with our limited resources, manpower and means we would battle the third wave if it comes and a number of steps have been initiated to augment the health infrastructure in the state, including special child care wards in hospitals," he said.Special emphasis is being given on rural areas as Jharkhand's 75 per cent of the population reside there and a massive door-to-door campaign has been launched where survey would be conducted in all rural households, providing them with necessary kits to fight Covid-19, he said."Our priority has been life and livelihood. The infection rate is decreasing. We issued 10 lakh e-passes for the movement during the restrictions as we didn't want people to face inconvenience," Soren said.Jharkhand has launched a massive 10-day drive for the rural areas under which each home in every village will be surveyed and proper treatment facilities will be made available to the people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/jharkhand-facing-vaccine-shortage-3-days-stock-left-for-18-44-group-cm-101621906855759.html
25-05-2021||Delhi||Sharp fall in cases, but most Covid ICU beds in Delhi remain full||Even as Delhi continues to witness a steady decline of daily new Covid-19 cases, the number of seriously ill patients has remained nearly stagnant, with most ICU beds in big private hospitals remaining almost full.The number of Covid-19 cases has reduced from a 7-day average of 18,374 (May 3-9) in the first week of May to 3,285 (May 17-23) in the third week of the month, and the number of hospitalisations declined by 33% in this period, but the ICU occupancy has declined by only 5.6%.Doctors and government officials said this is because of extremely critical patients reaching hospitals during the peak and long recovery time in ICUs.HT analysed government data between May 10 and May 22 and found that while the number of active cases in Delhi has seen a decline of 67%, and the number of non-ICU patients by 59%, the number of ICU-patients has remained almost stagnant. Indeed, some days including May 12, 13 and 14, the number of ICU patients were even higher than May 10. From May 10 to May 22, the number of ICU patients has declined by 11% -- indicating that the pace of recovery of serious Covid-19 patients is way longer than those with milder symptoms.During the entire 13-day period, the number of ICU patients in Delhi remained above 5,000 till May 20 . It was only from May 21 that it went down below 5000.At the worst of this crisis, only 13.6% of Delhi’s Covid-19 beds were empty (16,942 occupied and 2,666 vacant) on April 20, while six days after that the city had completely run out of ICU beds for the general public, according to government data. Currently, of the total 28,485 beds across the Capital, 8,791 are occupied and 19,694 are vacant.Dr SCL Gupta, medical superintendent of Batra hospital said, “The numbers have started coming down over the last two or three days. But it will take another two weeks for the ICUs to empty out. These are still patients who were admitted during the peak.”The number of cases in Delhi peaked on April 20, with 28,395; the hospital occupancy on May 6, with 20,117 ; and the number of people in ICUs at 5,813 on May 12.The longer ICU stay led to a clogging up of the system at the peak, said Dr Sumit Ray, critical care specialist and medical superintendent of Holy Family hospital.“That is the timeline of Covid-19. Those who get critically ill, tend to have a long hospital stay. In the ICU, those who are not on ventilators take about two to three weeks to recover and those who are on ventilators could take up to a month. During the peak, the beds in ICU were completely full and that is the reason people were running from hospital to hospital,” he added.However, the availability of ICU beds has improved markedly. But if the current occupancy of ICU beds is just over 62%, it is largely because of ICU capacity added in the city over the last three weeks. The Delhi government created two makeshift 500-bed ICU-only facilities on vacant grounds and attached them to Lok Nayak and GTB hospitals. Another 200 were added at the Radha Saomi facility in Chhatarpur.“Now, we are getting only three to four patients a day and not all of them need ICU care. So, most of the patients currently admitted to the ICU are those who were taken in during the peak. Patients in ICU, especially those on ventilators, need a long time to recover. The numbers are likely to start coming down over the next couple of weeks,” said a senior doctor from Rajeev Gandhi super speciality hospital who asked not to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/sharp-fall-in-cases-but-most-covid-icu-beds-in-delhi-remain-full-101621899782947.html
25-05-2021||Delhi||‘MCQs second option; first choice would be to cancel CBSE exams’: Delhi schools||A day after the Union education ministry asked states to examine two proposals for the Class 12 Central Board Secondary Education (CBSE) exams, several schools in Capital said they would prefer that the exams be cancelled, but if the government insists on going ahead with them, choose the option in which students will be evaluated through multiple choice questions (MCQs).At a high-level meeting chaired by defence minister Rajnath Singh, and attended by the Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank and all state education ministers, the government on Sunday offered two proposals to the states on conducting exams only in major subjects – either in the regular format at designated centres, or multiple choice papers of a shorter duration at schools where the students are enrolled.Madhulika Sen, senior adviser at Tagore International School, said neither parents nor the teachers were in favour of holding exams.“Maybe the government is considering to hold physical exams considering the drop in cases. But what about the third wave or the increase in black fungus cases? We don’t know what the situation will be in July,” she said.School principals said that, if the exams were held, they would prefer the second option, but cautioned that it was going to be a major challenge during the pandemic since they’d not only have to convince teachers to come for invigilation but also ensure distancing inside the exam centres and outside the school premises.Sen said, “The biggest challenge is to convince teachers to come and work as invigilators because many haven’t been inoculated. The black fungus situation is also evolving. Another issue is that while we will follow all Covid-protocols at the school premises while conducting exams, what about the scene outside school? Even earlier this year, when schools reopened for board students, we faced problems with ensuring physical distancing outside schools as children and parents will crowd there.”Manju Sethi, principal of Bluebells School International, said it will be a big challenge to ensure safety of teachers who will be sent for invigilation duties.“We smoothly conducted pre-board exams at our school, but during the practical exams in March, my teachers had to go for invigilation to other schools, and many tested positive for Covid It will be a big challenge to decide whether to appoint teachers from parent schools as invigilators or let CBSE appoint invigilators for all schools,” she added.Several principals said CBSE should prepare a proper plan to send question papers online to the schools in order to avoid any contact during their transport.Jyoti Arora, principal of Mount Abu Public School in Rohini, said, “The question papers of all subjects should be sent online and appropriate time should be provided to download and photocopy them depending upon the number of students in that subject in a school. Besides, there should be a mechanism to evaluate the MCQ format answer scripts digitally.”Some teachers were of the opinion that any change in the format at this stage will add to the exam stress among students. Meenakshi Khushwaha, principal of Birla Vidya Niketan in Pushp Vihar, said, “The MCQ format is good when it comes to the evaluation process, but any change in the pattern will further disturb students. They have already suffered a lot and we should not do anything that will increase their stress. It will unfair to students preparing for exams in the existing format,” she said.Others also pointed out that the new format may put students at a disadvantage. Rajrani, who teaches History at a government school in east Delhi, said, “When the Class 12 students returned to school for practicals and board preparations in February, we practiced with question papers in the current format. For descriptive answers, even if a student forgets a few points he may be able to score some marks. However, in objective-type questions, there will be no marking if students cannot answer a question. With schools closed, we don’t know how we will ensure enough practice for them in a month.”Some school administrators also raised the issue of lack of space if exams are to be conducted in-person. Mary Jyotsna Minj, head of Government Girls Senior Secondary School in New Kondli, said the school has around 650 Class 12 students in both morning and evening shift.“We have around 59 classrooms and if we were to follow social distancing measures, each classroom would have only 12 students. We would only be able to conduct exams for major subjects, if we use a majority of the rooms and depute two teachers as invigilators in each room,” she said, adding that the school plans to use open areas if needed. “But to arrange senior teachers, when so many of them are engaged in Covid duties and other work, will be a challenge since the number of rooms used as exam halls will increase," Minj added.Delhi’s education minister Manish Sisodia said in Sunday’s meeting that conducting board exams without vaccinating all students and teachers will be a big mistake.CBSE controller of examinations Sanyam Bhardwaj did not respond to requests for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/mcqs-second-option-first-choice-would-be-to-cancel-cbse-exams-delhi-schools-101621896541202.html
25-05-2021||Lucknow||4 held for assaulting meat seller in UP; victim also booked||Four men accused of thrashing a meat-seller at Gott village under Katghar police station in Uttar Pradesh’s Moradabad district on Sunday were arrested on Monday, Moradabad police said. However, the victim was also booked for killing an animal with the intention to create mischief and violating lockdown guidelines.A video of the incident was widely circulated on social media on Sunday. In that the men, along with two others — all of them self-styled gau rakshaks (cow protection vigilantes) —were seen catching a meat-seller and transporter named Mohammed Shakir and assaulting him for allegedly carrying buffalo meat with him. Shakir also alleged that his attackers demanded ₹50,000 from him.Moradabad’s superintendent of police (city) Amit Kumar Anand said a case was registered against six people on the complaint of the victim’s brother, Zakir, and hunt was on for the other two men, including the main accused, Manoj Thakur. “We will arrest them soon,” Anand said.Thakur claimed to be the national vice president of Gau Raksha Vahini, a cow protection vigilante group. But the outfit said he was fired from it six months earlier. The police couldn’t give a clear answer about Thakur’s institutional affiliation. “The case is under investigation, and I don’t know much about it,” said Gajendra Singh, station house officer of Katghar police station, when asked to confirm if Thakur was indeed an office-bearer of the vigilante group.The police also lodged a case against Mohd Shakir for “causing mischief by killing an animal” and committing an act likely to spread infection and cause violation of the partial Covid curfew — legalese for the charge of not wearing a mask.But the Moradabad SP denied it was a counter case. “Approximately 50kg meat was seized from him, and he failed to show any valid document for its purchase,” Anand said.The case against the vigilantes was registered under sections 147 (rioting), 148 (armed with a deadly weapon), 149 (unlawful assembly), 389 (extortion), 386 (extortion by putting a person in fear of death), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code at Katghar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/4-held-for-assaulting-meat-seller-in-up-victim-also-booked-101621895682567.html
25-05-2021||Delhi||Despite sharp drop in Delhi’s Covid-19 caseload, most ICU beds in major pvt hospitals still full||Even as Delhi continues to witness a steady decline of daily new Covid-19 cases, the number of seriously ill patients has remained nearly stagnant , with most ICU beds in big private hospitals remaining almost full.The number of Covid-19 cases has reduced from a 7-day average of 18,374 (May 3-9) in the first week of May to 3,285 (May 17-23) in the third week of the month, and the number of hospitalisations declined by 33% in this period, but the ICU occupancy has declined by only 5.6%.Doctors and government officials said this is because of extremely critical patients reaching hospitals during the peak and long recovery time in ICUs.HT analysed government data between May 10 and May 22 and found that while the number of active cases in Delhi has seen a decline of 67%, and the number of non-ICU patients by 59%, the number of ICU-patients has remained almost stagnant. Indeed, some days including May 12, 13 and 14, the number of ICU patients were even higher than May 10. From May 10 to May 22, the number of ICU patients has declined by 11% -- indicating that the pace of recovery of serious Covid-19 patients is way longer than those with milder symptoms.During the entire 13-day period, the number of ICU patients in Delhi remained above 5,000 till May 20 . It was only from May 21 that it went down below 5000.At the worst of this crisis, only 13.6% of Delhi’s Covid-19 beds were empty (16,942 occupied and 2,666 vacant) on April 20, while six days after that the city had completely run out of ICU beds for the general public, according to government data. Currently, of the total 28,485 beds across the Capital, 8,791 are occupied and 19,694 are vacant.Dr SCL Gupta, medical superintendent of Batra hospital said, “The numbers have started coming down over the last two or three days. But it will take another two weeks for the ICUs to empty out. These are still patients who were admitted during the peak.”The number of cases in Delhi peaked on April 20, with 28,395; the hospital occupancy on May 6, with 20,117 ; and the number of people in ICUs at 5,813 on May 12.The longer ICU stay led to a clogging up of the system at the peak, said Dr Sumit Ray, critical care specialist and medical superintendent of Holy Family hospital.“That is the timeline of Covid-19. Those who get critically ill, tend to have a long hospital stay. In the ICU, those who are not on ventilators take about two to three weeks to recover and those who are on ventilators could take up to a month. During the peak, the beds in ICU were completely full and that is the reason people were running from hospital to hospital,” he added.However, the availability of ICU beds has improved markedly. But if the current occupancy of ICU beds is just over 62%, it is largely because of ICU capacity added in the city over the last three weeks. The Delhi government created two makeshift 500-bed ICU-only facilities on vacant grounds and attached them to Lok Nayak and GTB hospitals. Another 200 were added at the Radha Saomi facility in Chhatarpur.“Now, we are getting only three to four patients a day and not all of them need ICU care. So, most of the patients currently admitted to the ICU are those who were taken in during the peak. Patients in ICU, especially those on ventilators, need a long time to recover. The numbers are likely to start coming down over the next couple of weeks,” said a senior doctor from Rajeev Gandhi super speciality hospital who asked not to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/despite-sharp-drop-in-delhi-s-covid-19-caseload-most-icu-beds-in-major-pvt-hospitals-still-full-101621887847863.html
25-05-2021||Delhi||Centre must either vaccinate all class 12 students or look at alternatives to exams: Sisodia||Delhi education minister Manish Sisodia on Monday said the Centre should not be driven by an “obsession with examinations” while taking any decision regarding the Class 12 board exams and also cautioned the Union government against turning schools into super spreaders of Covid-19 by conducting exams.Sisodia’s comment came a day after the Union government convened a digital meeting to decide on the Class 12 board exams and subsequent entrance examinations that were postponed from March-April due to the second wave of Covid-19 across the country.At least two states, Maharashtra and Delhi, were of the opinion that exams should not be conducted amid the pandemic. Several states also raised the demand of vaccinating students and teachers before conducting exams, officials said; the Centre has asked states to submit their detailed suggestions on the matter by Tuesday.In an interview to India Today on Monday, Sisodia said, “We will give two suggestions to the Centre on Tuesday--- either to vaccinate around 1.4 core students scheduled to appear for Class 12 exams across the country; or, to cancel the exams and evaluate students on the basis of their historical references. In case a few students are not satisfied with their marks under the alternative method of evaluation, they should be given another option to appear for exams when the situation improves.”“The government should not be driven by an obsession with examinations and prioritise the interests of students. We should not turn schools into super spreaders due to our mistake (of holding exams during the pandemic),” he said.Sisodia said the central government should speak to Pfizer, which has developed a vaccine for children above the age of 12 years, and acquire that vaccine for inoculating 1.4 crore students (across all boards, all over India) who are currently studying in the 12th grade. “Or, the government may consult health experts on whether the vaccine given to those in the age group of 18+ can also be given to the students of class 12, who are mostly 17 or 17.5 years old,” he said.In another interview to NDTV, Sisodia said, “I request the Centre to consider that over 2.5 lakh Covid-19 cases are still being reported from across the country on a daily basis. Even as the cases are receding in Delhi, Covid-19 has started to make inroads into rural India. Besides, there are theories that the third wave of Covid-19 will mostly affect children. Any decision should be taken after considering all these factors... We cannot conduct exams by risking the safety and security of our children.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/centre-must-either-vaccinate-all-class-12-students-or-look-at-alternatives-to-exams-sisodia-101621887787846.html
25-05-2021||Other||31 doctors hired for Ramlila ground Covid facility disengaged from duty||New Delhi: Thirty-one junior resident doctors who were hired to work at Ramlila ground Covid care facility attached to Guru Tegh Bahadur (GTB) for three months, have been disengaged from duties days after they joined. While the doctors alleged they were removed due to disagreements over “payments”, hospital authorities said their services were not required since Covid-19 cases have been on the decline in the national capital. The hospital earlier this month appointed 136 junior resident doctors on a per-day and per-shift basis at the 500-bed facility, initially for a three-month period, and doctors joined between May 10 and May 15. On Sunday, however, the GTB hospital issued an order saying the services of at least 31 of these doctors were terminated immediately. Dr Nitin Bagari, one of the residents who was discharged, said, “The authorities hired us for three months. However, we have been removed from duty within days of joining, without any prior notice. I joined the facility only on May 12.” Dr Bagari recently completed his MBBS programme and internship. Another junior resident, who asked not to be named, said, “Some of us recently raised an issue regarding the night shift. We demanded that it be counted as a double shift and we be paid accordingly. Within days, authorities removed us from duty.” GTB hospital officials rejected these claims. “The doctors were hired on a daily honorarium basis to manage Covid-19 cases during the peak. They were to be hired for a maximum of three months but not necessarily so. Right now, cases have gone down and we cannot justify having so many doctors. Interns from GTB hospital have now been diverted to manage any patients admitted in the facility,” said a senior official from the hospital administration, asking not to be named. Meanwhile, the 31 doctors said they plan to protest against the move at the Covid facility on Tuesday. “We will gather to ask authorities why we were removed so abruptly,” said Dr Bagari.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/31-doctors-hired-for-ramlila-ground-covid-facility-disengaged-from-duty-101621887727924.html
25-05-2021||Delhi||HC seeks status report on mosquito menace as civic bodies chalk out vector control drives||The Delhi high court on Monday initiated a public interest litigation (PIL) on the mosquito menace in the national capital said if not contained, vector borne diseases would add to the existing problems and complexities of the Covid-19 pandemic.The observations came even as the three civic bodies in the national capital are gearing up to conduct mega drives this week to ensure vector control -- nearly 1,700 municipal staff of the north and east corproations will be engaged in the exercises of fogging and spray of anti-larva medicines, while south corporation will launch a separate drive in its area.However, a bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh noted that on account of the current pandemic, steps to control the mosquito menace have taken a back seat.“We are inclined to take suo motu cognisance of the mosquito infestation which has taken place in Delhi. On account of the current pandemic, steps to contain such infestation have taken a back seat. Every year, during and after the monsoon months, the city sees vector borne diseases such as dengue and chikungunya, and if this is not contained, with the growing Covid pandemic, the rise of such diseases would lead to and add to the problem and complexities (of Covid),” the bench said.It issued notices to the Delhi government, the three municipal corporations, New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) and the Delhi Cantonment Board (DCB) seeking to know the steps taken by them or planned to be undertaken by them to contain the mosquito infestation. AAsking the civic authorities to “pull up their socks”, the court said, “The mosquito situation is very bad... With the onset of monsoon, and looking at the pandemic, we will land in major problems.”“If people get dengue or something and they need to be hospitalised in Covid times, it will multiply the problem very badly,” it added, while directing the authorities to file their responses by Thursday.Meanwhile, the north civic body has also identified over 170 sites, which are prone to water accumulation and fit for mosquito breeding. “We have identified more than 170 places, which are prone to mosquito breeding. Intensive fumigation and anti-larva medicine spraying will be conducted at these locations and other places as well. Our domestic breeding checkers (DBCs) are already inspecting households for mosquito breeding. We will ensure that vector borne diseases do not hit the capital this year,” Jai Prakash, mayor, North Delhi Municipal Corporation, said. He said he has also written to the public works department (PWD) and other road owning agencies to keep their drains and roads clean to ensure no waterlogging takes place during monsoon. According to data provided by civic bodies, 25 cases of dengue have been reported till May 22 this year while only 18 cases were reported during the same period in 2020. Similarly, the capital has reported only four cases of chikungunya till May 22, 2021, while 10 cases of chikungunya were reported during the same period last year. Till May 22, 2021, Delhi has reported eight cases of malaria while the number was 18 during the same period last year. The total number of dengue cases in 2020 was 1,072 while it was 2,036 in 2019. There is no figure available for the current year. The South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) said it is already carrying out fumigation exercises and has issued over 1,800 fines to owners of properties where mosquito breeding was found. A senior official of the SDMC said, on condition of anonymity, “The department has sent nearly five lakh awareness text messages. We have appealed to people to control mosquito breeding in and around their houses by cleaning their water coolers every week. The civic body has also issued nearly 1,800 legal notices and fines against households and commercial units for mosquito breeding on their premises.” Nirmal Jain, mayor, East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC). said the civic body will soon begin spraying of anti-larva medicine at locations where water usually accumulates. “We are making efforts to control mosquito breeding. Our staff is engaged in Covid duty as well, so, from this week, will start dedicated drives to control mosquito breeding,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/hc-seeks-status-report-on-mosquito-menace-as-civic-bodies-chalk-out-vector-control-drives-101621887667822.html
25-05-2021||Delhi||Two selling vial of black fungus drug for ₹11,300 held, 20 vials seized||The Delhi Police on Monday said arrested two men and seized 20 vials of amphotericin B, currently a hard-to-obtain antifungal drug used for treating patients who have mucormycosis, or black fungus, a disease that is on the rise across the country. The two had procured the injections from Lucknow in Uttar Pradesh and were selling each vial for ₹11,300, which is about 36 times its actual price of about ₹330, the police said.This is the first seizure of the antifungal drug in Delhi and the second case of cheating in the name of delivering urgently needed injections in the past three days.The increasing cases of black fungus (mucormycosis) and an acute shortage of amphotericin B injection -- the only effective drug against the disease according to doctors -- has led to the hoarding and black marketing of the injection, police said. A similar hoarding and black-marketing of drugs such as remdesivir, faviprarir and ivermectin, which are used to treat Covid-19 patients, was seen in the month of April and early-May, when Covid cases were at an all-time high in the capital. Experts also said the sudden rise in black fungus cases, especially in recovered Covid-19 patients, may be because of the high use of steroids and them remaining on oxygen and ventilator support for a prolonged time.Given the spike in cases, the allocation of amphotericin B to various states and Union territories (UTs) is being done by the central government, depending upon the number of cases reported by each state and UT. Union minister of chemicals and fertilizers DV Sadanand Godwa on Saturday had announced an allocation of 23,680 additional vials of amphotericin B to all states and UTs.Deputy commissioner of police (south) Atul Kumar Thakur said on Sunday, two students who are members of a WhatsApp group, “Covid Helper”, formed to help out patients, told the Saket police about the black marketing of amphotericin B. The duo said while they were trying to source the drug for a patient, they came across a person who was selling one vial for ₹11,300.“The students demanded 20 vials of amphotericin B and the person agreed to deliver them for ₹2.26 lakh. The delivery was scheduled near Max hospital in Saket. Our raiding team along with the students reached the meeting point and waited for the suspects, who arrived in a MGF Hector SUV. Spotting the police team, the suspects tried to flee but were caught. The car was searched and 20 vials of amphotericin B were seized,” said DCP Thakur.A case was registered and the two men, identified as Rajnish Shrivastava,46, and his driver Murtaza Khan,36, were arrested. The SUV in which they were travelling and transporting the injections was also seized.“Shrivastava disclosed that he brought the injections from Lucknow and was trying to sell them at a very high price, taking advantage of the current shortage. We are now trying to find out how and from whom Shrivastava procured the injections. The seized injections are of the newly produced lot,” said Thakur. Police said Shrivastava completed his masters in tourism from Lucknow University and later started a company, AmbuSmith Inc., that deals in medical equipment and modification of ambulances. Shrivastava is into the trading of medical equipment such as stretchers and ICU beds for hospitals. His business of modifying ambulances is being run from a workshop in Mohammadpur village near the Delhi airport. Khan, his driver, also helped him in the business.Driver arrested for cheatingIn another case, a 28-year-old driver was arrested on Saturday for allegedly cheating the family of a patient suffering from black fungus of ₹3,000 after promising the home delivery of amphotericin B. The arrested man, Prashant Kumar Sharma, had circulated his mobile number on social media as a supplier of the antifungal drug. The patient’s family contacted him and he tricked them into paying ₹3,000 into his online wallet. However, after taking the money, SHarma neither delivered the injection nor returned the money, said deputy commissioner of police (Shahdara) R Sathiyasundaram.“Two mobile phones were seized from Sharma. We are trying to ascertain the number of people he had duped by promising to deliver amphotericin B injections,” added Sathiyasundaram.Delhi Police chief SN Shrivastava, in a virtual meeting with senior officers on Saturday, had directed them to remain vigilant and take action against financial frauds, cyber crimes, and fraudsters involved in the black-marketing of essentials such as medicines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/two-selling-vial-of-black-fungus-drug-for-11-300-held-20-vials-seized-101621887547879.html
25-05-2021||Chandigarh||Capt tells ‘Invest Punjab’ to work out model for incentives on case-to-case basis||Chief minister (CM) Capt Amarinder Singh on Monday asked the Punjab Bureau of Investment Promotion (PBIP), also known as ‘Invest Punjab’, to work out a model where incentives for industry can be given on a case-to-case basis. Chairing the third meeting of the board of governors of PBIP through video conferencing, the CM said the anti-red tape legislation, recently passed in the state, was aimed at making government procedures investor friendly. Invest Punjab CEO Rajat Agrawal said in the last four years, 2,394 projects, to the tune of ₹84,500 crore, have come to the state. Out of these, 53% projects have already started production and another 35% are in various stages of construction. He added that 24% of the total projects have come up in SAS Nagar while 22% projects are in Ludhiana. The state also witnessed investments in interior districts such as Sangrur and Bathinda, and border districts such as Gurdaspur, Amritsar and Pathankot, he said. The CM said that since March 2017, investment proposals have come from countries such as Germany, Japan, France, USA, UK, UAE, Singapore, Spain, Denmark, South Korea and New Zealand, and he hopes that by the end of December 2021, Invest Punjab achieves a milestone of Rs. 1 lakh crore in investments. Hero Group’s chairman and managing director Pankaj Munjal said his company has already tied up with Japanese Company Yamaha and Mitsui besides other companies of Germany and UK to set up facilities in the Hi-Tech Cycle Valley. He said that the e-cycle market industry alone has a global potential of over Rs. 5 lakh crore, out of which, India has merely captured 2% i.e Rs.10,000 crore which could further be enhanced to Rs.50,000 crore. Chairman, CII Punjab, Bhavdeep Sardana emphasised on the need for setting up a steel city in the state, considering the existing growth and potential in secondary steel, forging and machining. Chairman and managing director of Vardhman Group, Sachit Jain spoke about the investments made by AICHI Steels of Japan in Punjab through Vardhman Steels. He further informed that Vardhman Steels is planning to invest another Rs. 200 crore in its expansion project very soon. Speaking on the occasion, finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal said the state has major land chunks for industry at Rajpura, Bathinda and Goindwal Sahib, which can be optimally utilised and offered to those entrepreneurs who want to set up their ventures in Punjab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/capt-tells-invest-punjab-to-work-out-model-for-incentives-on-case-to-case-basis-101621886648372.html
25-05-2021||Mumbai||ATS head for Antilia case is Thane top cop||Jaijeet Singh, who headed the state’s anti-terrorism squad (ATS) while it probed Antilia bomb scare case, has been appointed the chief of Thane Police. His appointment was made as part of minor IPS reshuffle three weeks after Vivek Phansalkar was transferred as Thane police commissioner, following his promotion. Vineet Agarwal, ADG and principal secretary (home), a 1994-batch IPS, will replace Singh as ATS chief. Sanjay Saxena, ADG, will take over from Agarwal. ATS, under the 1990-batch IPS officer Jaijeet Singh, probed Antilia explosives scare and Mansukh Hiran case before they were handed over the National Investigation Agency. State home department issued the transfer order on Monday according to Maharashtra Police Act 1951. After Phansalkar’s appointment as managing director of Maharashtra State Police Housing and Welfare Corporation Limited earlier this month, Suresh Kumar Mekhla, joint commissioner of police, Thane was given an additional charge of CP, Thane.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ats-head-for-antilia-case-is-thane-top-cop-101621886527844.html
25-05-2021||Chandigarh||3 Covid patients diagnosed with black fungus die in Amritsar||Three Covid positive patients, who were also diagnosed with mucormycosis died at Amritsar hospitals on Monday. Punjab has reported 17 deaths due to black fungus in the past four days. While one patient belonged to Amritsar district, the others were from Tarn Taran and Jalandhar districts. “A 65-year-old Amritsar resident died in a local private hospital while two patients, 62-year-old man from Patti, Tarn Taran, and other 75-year-old man from Phillaur, Jalandhar, died at Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Amritsar, on Monday,” said Amritsar civil surgeon Dr Charanjit Singh. GMCH medical superintendent Dr KD Singh said, “Two Covid-19 positive patients, who were also found infected with black fungus, had died at the hospital but the fungal infection was not the main reason behind their death. They died due to Covid-related complications.” A total of 111 cases of mucormycosis have so far been reported from state and an expert group has finalised the treatment protocols for the disease, state health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said. He said 25 of these cases were reported from government health facilities, while the remaining 86 from various private hospitals.“Black fungus cases are mainly found in patients who have recently recovered from COVID-19 or are immune-compromised (suffering from HIV or Cancer etc.) or the patients recovered from Covid with help of steroids/immuno-modulators, those who were on oxygen support for long time and people having uncontrolled diabetes,” the minister said in an official statement.Sidhu said antifungal drugs are required to treat this disease and the supply of these medicines is regulated by the central government. Two injections are being provided to the states by the Union government in the treatment of black fungus. No one can procure these medicines from the open market directly as their distribution is under the sole purview of Government of India, he stated.The health minister informed that an expert group of the state government has finalised the treatment protocols and an expert committee has been formed to advise the treating hospitals and physicians in accordance with the treatment protocol for mucormycosis or black fungus.Any hospital requiring injections Liposomal Amphotericin-B and Amphotericin-B can also approach this committee and it shall be made available subject to the availability from Government of India. However, at present due to restricted supply, this committee would examine requests and ensure that the basic requisite quantity of the medicine is provided to hospitals which require these injections on priority for treating the patients of black fungus.All patients of this disease will have to be notified by the treating institution/physician as the disease is now a notified disease in the state of Punjab. Sidhu further stated that symptoms of black fungus infection can include facial pain or swelling, stuffy nose or brown nasal discharge, toothache, loose teeth, redness, pain or swelling of the eye, fever, shortness of breath, headache, altered sensorium, double or blurred vision. If anyone has any such symptoms, he/she should report to the nearest health facility at the earliest, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/3-covid-patients-diagnosed-with-black-fungus-die-in-amritsar-101621886412817.html
25-05-2021||Mumbai||‘4,522 buildings in Thane in dangerous condition’||The pre-monsoon survey of dangerous buildings conducted by the Thane Municipal Corporation has revealed over 4,522 buildings in Thane are in dangerous condition. Of these, over 73 buildings are in extremely dangerous category (C1) and need to be evacuated and 154 in C2A (can be structurally repaired), which also need to be evacuated. The survey states 2,416 buildings are in C2B (can be repaired without evacuation) and 1,879 in C3 (minor repairs needed) category. While Naupada has the most number, 43, buildings in extremely dangerous categories, Mumbra and Wagale Estate have the highest number of buildings in C2B and C3 categories. A civic official requesting anonymity said, “Most of the buildings here are stuck in legal battle or in dispute over redevelopment. Merely a few of these 43 are occupied at present. Overall Mumbra has highest number of 1,419 dangerous buildings,followed by 1069 in Wagale Estate.” Civic commissioner Dr Vipin Sharma had asked officials to vacate all dangerous buildings in the city by May 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/4522-buildings-in-thane-in-dangerous-condition-101621886407822.html
25-05-2021||Mumbai||Hiran murder case: Arrested cop dismissed from city police force||Suspended police constable Vinayak Shinde, arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in Antilia bomb scare and the subsequent murder of Thane trader Mansukh Hiran, has been summarily dismissed from service. Mumbai police’s additional commissioner (West) Sandeep Karnik issued an order under Article 311(2)(B) of the Constitution of India dismissing the constable, who was already serving life imprisonment for his role in Lakhan Bhaiya fake encounter killing. He allegedly aided and abetted controversial Mumbai police officer Sachin Vaze in purportedly committing the two crimes, when he was out on emergency parole.Mumbai police spokesperson and deputy commissioner of police Chaitanya Siriprolu on Monday said that Shinde was earlier suspended, now he has been dismissed from the service. An order to this effect was issued by additional CP, West on Saturday. “Based on the findings of NIA’s probe about his role in the serious cases his dismissal procedure was initiated. His act maligned the police’s image in public and his actions also brought shame to the police department. Hence he is fit for dismissal from the police service without holding a departmental enquiry,” said Karnik.Shinde was arrested by the Maharashtra Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) on March 21. He was later handed over to NIA. Shinde was actively involved in murder of Hiran on March 4, the ATS had said.ATS sources said Shinde was in regular touch with Vaze ever since he got out on parole in May 2020 and, according to ATS remand application, Shinde was looking after Vaze’s “illegal activities” in Mumbai and Thane area. Gujarat based accused Naresh Gaur, also arrested by NIA, had allegedly supplied Sim cards to Shinde who in turn handed them over to Vaze. Shinde would help Vaze in all his illegal works, ATS stated. Sinde had served in Mumbai crime branch. Shinde, an accused in encounter case of slain gangster Lakhan Bhaiyya, had come out on parole. Ramnarayan Gupta alias Lakhan Bhaiya was killed in a fake encounter on November 11, 2006. In 2013, a Mumbai sessions court had awarded life sentences to 21 people, including 13 Mumbai Police personnel, convicted in the case. Presently Shinde is in judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/hiran-murder-case-arrested-cop-dismissed-from-city-police-force-101621886227809.html
25-05-2021||Other||Struggling to stay afloat amid lockdown, Amritsar’s hoteliers mulling to quit biz||With occupancy almost down to zero amid the pandemic-induced lockdown and the recurring expenses weighing heavy on the pocket, several hoteliers in Amritsar are mulling to quit the business.Home to several tourist attractions such as Golden Temple, Partition Museum, Town Hall, Sadda Pind, War Memorial, Jallianwala Bagh, Attari-Wagah border, Durgiana Temple, Heritage Street, Ram Tirath Temple, Gobindgarh Fort and Pul Kanjri, Amritsar is considered to be the hub of tourism in Punjab and has around 700 hotels. Of these, at least two dozen hotels are already up for sale and around 50 other hotel owners are planning to follow suit, as per the hoteliers’ association. Most of these hotels have already laid off several staff members and are working at 30 to 50% strength. But with no income, they are struggling to meet regular expenses, such as electricity and rent. Surinder Singh, president of Federation of Hotel and Guest Houses Association, Amritsar, says, “At least 50 to 60 hoteliers in the city are eager to leave the trade. Nearly two dozen have already put up their hotels for sale, but no one wants to buy a sinking ship. These hoteliers are reeling under debt from banks and taxes imposed by the government. If the lockdown continues for some more time, we fear that many hoteliers may commit suicide like the farmers. Our association, at the national level, is planning to approach the Supreme Court demanding relaxations.”AP Singh Chatha, president of the Amritsar Hotel and Restaurant Association (Ahara), said, “Four five-star hotels of our association have already shut their operations. Many members are under depression as there is zero occupancy in their hotels. Unable to pay taxes, they are being harassed by government officials. Heavy penalties are being imposed for late payment. Many who had taken hotels on lease have also left the business. Most of the hotels are running with 25 to 50% staff strength and their salaries have also been decreased to 50%.”A hotelier, wishing to be anonymous, said, “With no customers, I am unable to pay the installments of my bank loan and the interest is piling up. We are receiving electricity bills and constant tax filing reminders but how do we pay when we have no income?”Hotelier Jatinder Singh alias Moti Bhatia demanded that the government waives off all taxes since March 2020. “We should also be exempted from paying electricity bills. Otherwise the industry will not be able to revive even after the next ten years,” he said.Amritsar district tourism officer (DTO) Gursharan Singh said, “We are in constant touch with the hoteliers and hope that the situation improves in the coming days. The state government is also concerned about the grievances of the hoteliers.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/struggling-to-stay-afloat-amid-lockdown-amritsar-s-hoteliers-mulling-to-quit-biz-101621886048358.html
25-05-2021||Other||Amphotericin B shortage in Lucknow’s private hospitals makes doctors fall back on other anti-fungal treatment options||The lack of amphotericin B injections for the treatment of black fungus in private hospitals has prompted doctors to use other anti-fungal options, which are not as broad spectrum as amphotericin B.“Anti-fungal drugs are available in different categories. Amphotericin B is first choice and covers almost all the types of fungal infection. But if not available, there are other anti-fungal injections being used,” said Dr RK Mishra of SIPS hospital where 12 black fungus patients have recovered till now.“Ten patients recovered without amphotericin B, while two managed amphotericin B on their own. However, those given other options took a longer time to recover. But they recovered,” said Dr Mishra.Dr Farookh Ansari, medical director of Chandan hospital, another private hospital treating black fungus patients, said instead of waiting for amphotericin B, other options were used on patients. Chandan hospital has treated over a dozen black fungus patients.Amphotericin B is in short supply in the private sector while government-run medical colleges treating black fungus cases have an adequate stock. Hence, doctors in the private sector are using alternatives to save lives.“We use amphotericin B as it covers all types of fungal infections. It takes 28 days to get a fungal culture report. Hence, instead of waiting, we start other available anti-fungal treatment options. In several cases it has worked.”“The injection amphotericin B has been found most effective in black fungus cases. hence it is the preferred one. But if not available, the other options can be used instead of waiting,” said senior plastic surgeon Dr Vaibhav Khanna, director of Healthcity hospital.Dr Ved Prakash, head of the department of pulmonary critical care medicine at King George’s Medical University, said, “Posaconazole has also been used in black fungus cases. Instead of injection amphotericin B, which is considered to cover maximum fungal infections, the alternatives can also work among black fungus patients.”Who’s at risk?Covid patients with prolonged hospital stay on oxygen support having comorbidity such as diabetes were at the risk of getting black fungus, said doctors.“Covid induced poor immunity contributes 50% while history of uncontrolled diabetes where patients are irregular in monitoring of their sugar levels and also fail to take the prescribed medicine regularly, contributes to another 30% getting the black fungus infection. Those who develop high sugar during Covid treatment due to use of steroids are also at risk,” said Dr RK Mishra of SIPS hospital.At times, Covid-induced hypoglycaemia too causes poor immunity for getting infected, said Dr Mishra who has treated 14 black fungus patients.“I do not agree with the theory that only prolonged oxygen support is responsible for black fungus infection. Two patients I treated never needed oxygen support,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/amphotericin-b-shortage-in-lucknow-s-private-hospitals-makes-doctors-fall-back-on-other-anti-fungal-treatment-options-101621885927779.html
25-05-2021||Mumbai||8 days on, Navy calls off SAR op for barge P305 and tugboat Varaprada||The Indian Navy on Monday evening called off the eight-day search and rescue (SAR) operation for missing crew members of barge Papaa305 (P305) and tugboat Varaprada, which capsized in the Arabian Sea last Monday, hours after extremely severe cyclone Tauktae hit the Mumbai coast. Meanwhile, three of the eight bodies that drifted ashore in Valsad and Daman in Gujarat have been identified as crew members of Varaprada. The toll of the P305 tragedy remains 70 and the Varaprada incident three.On Monday morning, the Navy located Varaprada on the seabed, about 20 nautical miles away from Mumbai, following a thorough search using advanced side sonar of INS Makar. “The Navy sent its special diving team in search of crew members, to check if any of Brave Nature’s victims were trapped on the tugboat,” said commander Mehul Karnik, chief public relations officer of the Western Naval Command. “The diving team did not find any crew member trapped, after which Naval officials decided to call off the SAR.” The Navy then withdrew their assets from the SAR in Heera oil fields in the Arabian Sea. The tugboat sank on May 17, when it was returning to Mumbai harbour. The incident came to light after INS Kolkata rescued two crew members of the tug, while on their way to the search and rescue for barge P305. Barge P305 was deployed at an unmanned platform in Heera oil fields, one of the largest ONGC rigs in the Arabian sea. It was anchored about 200m away from the platform when the cyclone hit the Mumbai coast. The barge got de-anchored in the night of May 16, and hit a platform while drifting in the rough sea. It eventually sank around 7pm on May 17, with 261 on-board. The rough weather and very choppy sea made the Navy’s search and rescue operation one of the most challenging operations undertaken by them in four decades. The Navy succeeded in rescuing 186 crew members of P305 and has so far recovered bodies of 70 others during the search. The barge was also located on the seabed in Heera oil fields, but the diving team did not find any body trapped inside. Meanwhile, Yellow Gate police said so far 48 of the 70 bodies have been identified by their relatives. The process of identification of the remaining 22, to find the five missing P305 crew members, is on. The police will also go for DNA fingerprinting, as some of the bodies are decomposed. The agencies claimed on Sunday that they found 17 more bodies over the past two days at different beaches in Raigad district, Palghar and Valsad at Gujarat. Officials said seven bodies were recovered from Valsad, one from Daman, one from Arnala beach in Palghar district and eight bodies were found at Alibag, Murud, Nagaon and Sasawne in Raigad district. Of the eight bodies found at Gujarat and Valsad, three were found to be crew members of Varaprada. The remain bodies are being checked to find the 8 missing people from the tugboat.The body of Nagendra Prajapati, 59, the captain of the tugboat, was identified by his elder brother Surendra, 61, who came from Lucknow on Monday. Surendra identified his brother’s body on the basis of his wrist watch and gold ring. The body was found by local residents of Bhagal village when it landed ashore on May 21, said a police officer. Another body of Umed Singh, 59, who was working as a second engineer on Varaprada, was identified by his elder brother Rajkumar Singh, 63, on Sunday. Rajkumar came from Jalaun district of Uttar Pradesh after the company informed him about the incident. Aadhaar, election card, mobile phone and bank debit cards were found in his pockets. The third body, of Saddam Hussein Ejaz Ahmed, 29, who worked as an electrician on Varaprada, was identified by his elder brother Azad who lives in Mumbai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/8-days-on-navy-calls-off-sar-op-for-barge-p305-and-tugboat-varaprada-101621885868897.html
25-05-2021||Chandigarh||Hoist black flags atop houses on May 26: Sukhbir to partymen||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Monday asked party leaders and workers to hoist black flags atop their houses on May 26 to express solidarity with the farmers protesting against the farm laws. Sukhbir also requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi to talk to the farmers immediately to resolve all their grievances, saying there is no scope for egos in a democracy. ‘People have lost faith in govt hospitals’ Inaugurating the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee’s eighth Covid care centre in the state at Guru Nanak Sangat Hospital, Kalra village, of Adampur town in Jalandhar on Monday, the SGPC chief said people have lost faith in government hospitals due to lack of arrangements for Covid patients. “The Centre has failed to provide vaccines to Punjab despite high mortality rate. Punjab needs a bold leadership at this juncture. I urge the CM to visit most-affected districts and also direct his ministers to engage with the people directly to resolve their issues like lack of oxygen, medicines and quality medical care.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hoist-black-flags-atop-houses-on-may-26-sukhbir-to-partymen-101621885868406.html
25-05-2021||Other||Ghaziabad DM asked to file affidavit on alleged black marketing of oxygen||The Allahabad high court has directed the Ghaziabad district magistrate (DM) to file his personal affidavit in a public interest litigation (PIL) on the alleged black marketing of oxygen in UP’s Ghaziabad district resulting in the deaths of several Covid-19 patients during the second wave of the pandemic.The court also asked the DM to file the inquiry report in the probe instituted by him on a complaint filed by the petitioner Nand Kishore, the sitting BJP MLA from Loni constituency of Ghaziabad, alleging involvement of ADM (City) of Ghaziabad, and some other persons in the black marketing of oxygen.The bench comprising justice Sunita Agarwal and justice Sadhna Rani (Thakur) passed the order on the PIL filed by Nand Kishore. The order was passed on May 21 and came into the public domain on May 24.The petitioner requested a CBI probe against the ADM (City) of Ghaziabad, and some other persons for their alleged involvement in black-marketing and illegal sale of oxygen in Delhi, Haryana, etc, “resulting in the deaths of scores of Covid patients in Ghaziabad and nearby areas”.Appearing for the petitioner, senior advocate SFA Naqvi argued, “ADM (city) is in charge of oxygen distribution in Ghaziabad and under his nose black marketing of oxygen was taking place.”“Ghaziabad has several oxygen plants and can easily sustain and fulfil the entire oxygen demand in the district. Regardless, the city has been facing a shortage of medical oxygen,” said Naqvi.The petitioner has filed some audio and video clips along with the petition.The state government counsel submitted that shortage of oxygen was not reported in the district of Ghaziabad during the period of the complaint, that was in the last week of April 2021, and the allegations in this regard in the petition are baseless.“Further, the petitioner on May 1 filed a complaint to the senior superintendent of police (SSP), Ghaziabad, after which a three-member inquiry committee was set up by the DM Ghaziabad, which is conducting an inquiry.” submitted the state government counsel.The court directed the Ghaziabad DM to file his personal affidavit, bring on record the inquiry report and fixed June 7 as the next date of hearing in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ghaziabad-dm-asked-to-file-affidavit-on-alleged-black-marketing-of-oxygen-101621885808856.html
25-05-2021||Mumbai||LLM students allege discrepancies in admissions as students with lower scores bag seats||Less than a week after the University of Mumbai (MU) wrapped up the final round of admissions to Master of Law (LLM) course for the 2020-21 academic year, a group of students have raised objection to the manner in which seats were allotted. In a letter addressed to the MU vice-chancellor as well as the governor of the state, these students have pointed out discrepancies, showing how non-revealing of vacant seats left some with higher entrance exam scores losing a seat to those with lower scores. “The last spot admission round was announced in mid-May and applicants were asked to once again apply for a division as per the seat vacancy information shared by MU on their website. We applied accordingly, only to later find out that there were more vacant seats in other divisions, which we were not made aware of,” said an applicant. He added that due to this error on the part of the law department at MU, students with a lower score in common entrance test (CET) have bagged seats while those with higher scores have not. On May 15, the university’s department of law issued a notice allowing candidates, who could not make it to the five merit lists, to apply afresh for the vacant seats through spot admission. On the same notice, the department announced that the sixth merit list would be the last one. There are around 600 seats for LLM in six divisions — Constitutional and administrative law, business law, intellectual property and information technology law, human rights law, criminal law and criminal administration, and environmental and legal order. Applicants, however, alleged that the university hid seat vacancy from all divisions before announcing the sixth and final merit list. “The seat vacancy list on the MU website showed only four vacant seats and students applied accordingly. However, once the sixth merit list was out it showed at least a dozen other students were allocated seats across divisions. How did these students find out about more vacant seats without MU officially announcing the same? The university is clearly keeping seats hidden from the common admission process,” said another student.An official from MU told HT that as per law, reserved category seats cannot be converted into general category seats, even though there are no applicants under these categories. “The final round was conducted to give students another chance at applying for LLM seats as the second Covid-19 wave affected the admission process. But in the special round, we still cannot give away seats from reserved categories to those from the open category,” said the official. MU in a statement has refuted all claims, saying the admissions was a virtual process and conducted smoothly without any errors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/llm-students-allege-discrepancies-in-admissions-as-students-with-lower-scores-bag-seats-101621885807764.html
25-05-2021||Chandigarh||Bathinda AIIMS forms task force to treat black fungus patients||The All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Bathinda, has constituted a multidisciplinary mucor task force to treat patients diagnosed with black fungus.Institute executive director Dr DK Singh said on Monday that the team will work on early diagnosis and treatment of mucormycosis patients.ENT specialist Dr Vaibhav Saini will be the in-charge while Dr Vikasdeep Gupta has been designated as the nodal officer of the task force. Dr Singh said patients can dial the black fungus helpline number 0164-286-7348 or AIIMS Covid helpline number 0164-2867468/69 for assistance. O2 concentrator bank facility The district authorities on Monday started an oxygen concentrator bank to facilitate people under post-Covid-19 care.Deputy commissioner B Srinivasan said the medical equipment will be issued at a nominal cost of ₹200 per day for 10 days and a refundable security amount of ₹10,000.He said the machines will be provided by the district Red Cross officials after an undertaking by a doctor or hospital that patient’s family has been trained in using the oxygen concentrator.On Monday, Bathinda reported 315 fresh Covid cases and 14 deaths.Pvt doctors join hands to offer free treatment in Amritsar AMRITSAR: Private doctors have joined hands under the banner of Amritsar-based Muskaan Trust to offer free treatment to patients suffering from black fungus. They have also launched a free ambulance and oxygen concentrator service to those suffering from Covid-19, in collaboration with Toronto-based Pravasi Sahaayta Foundation. These doctors are being assisted in their endeavours by city businessmen, who have come together to aid this mission under the banner of an NGO, Helpers.“The initiative has been launched by extending our services to 30 black fungus-affected patients,” said Dr Madhu Shankar Diwan, founder, Muskaan Trust, and an oral and maxillofacial surgeon. He said that the treatment entails several expensive surgeries. Dr Kuldip Singh Arora, president, Indian Medical Association (IMA), Punjab, and Dr PPS Batra, an ENT surgeon have also extended their support to the Trust in the humanitarian initiative.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bathinda-aiims-forms-task-force-to-treat-black-fungus-patients-101621885749778.html
25-05-2021||Chandigarh||Actor Deep Sidhu booked for violating Covid norms||The district police booked actor Deep Sidhu for violating Covid guidelines during his visit to Faridkot district on Monday.Out on bail in the Red Fort violence cases, Sidhu, along with his supporters, reached at gurdwara at Jaitu and later went to Matta village in the Faridkot on Sunday. Police said Sidhu addressed a large gathering at both the places, which was a violation of lockdown guidelines issued by the state government. “During investigation, we found that he was not even wearing mask,” police said in a statement.An FIR has been registered under Sections 188 (disobedience to the order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of any disease dangerous to life) of IPC and Section 3 of the Epidemic Diseases Act at Jaitu police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/actor-deep-sidhu-booked-for-violating-covid-norms-101621885568852.html
25-05-2021||Other||Teen’s death in Unnao: Suspended constable arrested, DNA test likely||A suspended police constable, who is accused of beating a teenage vegetable vendor to death in Unnao’s Bangarmau area on Friday, was arrested on Monday afternoon, according to the Unnao police. The arrest of Vijay Chowdhary comes a day after a sacked home guard jawan, Satyaprakash, was arrested in the same case. Another police constable Simavat, the third accused in the case, is yet to be arrested. While Satyaprakash was sacked after the teen’s death, the two constables were suspended. After Chowdhary’s arrest, a Unnao police team left for Lucknow to seek permission for a DNA sample test from additional director general of police (Lucknow zone) SN Sabat. Sabat was not available for comment. But people familiar with the issue said the police had taken the clothes and shoes worn by the constable on the day of incident into custody. Forensic experts would lift the DNA samples and they would be matched with that taken from the vendor’s body, said a senior officer. The DNA matching, the officer claimed, was imperative to build a strong case against the constables. Meanwhile, Satyaprakash was interrogated for about 30 minutes and sent to the Unnao jail. Replying to the two-three questions put to him, the home guard said the vendor was forcibly taken from his shop and brought to the police station sandwiched between him and constable Vijay Chowdhary. “As we reached the police station, the vendor slumped to the ground, everyone got scared,” he said, according to officials privy to his interrogation. His version of the teen being taken away by force is corroborated by the footage from CCTV camera, which was installed opposite his shop. The footage shows Chowdhary and Prakash arriving on a motorcycle and stopping a metre away from the shop. Chowdhary is seen gesturing to the vendor to come and the vendor follows the instruction. Then, Chowdhary is seen slapping him thrice with force and compelling him to sit on the motorcycle. The home guard, on his part, has denied beating the teen inside the police station. But the vendor’s family insists he was assaulted inside the police station where his condition deteriorated. The home guard’s denial was in line with the police station CCTV footage, which was mysteriously released a day after the death on Saturday. According to the footage, the vendor apparently was allowed to go back, but he had difficulty walking and nearly fell at the gates. Policemen are seen attending him and carrying him away. The CCTV footage raises doubts as no camera number is seen, nor is there any mention of time and date, those privy to the issue indicated. Unnao district magistrate Ravindra Kumar said the police were looking into who released the footage and whether it was edited. The vendor’s father alleged that his son was beaten up in the police station and the footage was deliberately produced to refute this allegation. “Then where else was he beaten up? The post-mortem has found 14 injuries, the one on the back of the ear was fatal,” he said. His mother was inconsolable and said her son was handed over to her and a relative in an unconscious state at the police station. “We took him to the hospital in a battery rickshaw that we arranged. The policemen did nothing,” she alleged. According to people familiar with the issue, the release of the footage has raised more questions than answers. None of the policemen present in the Bangarmau police station on the day had been questioned yet, according to them. “It has been two days since the investigation was transferred to the crime branch and they haven’t been questioned,” they said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/teens-death-in-unnao-suspended-constable-arrested-dna-test-likely-101621885567791.html
25-05-2021||Chandigarh||CJ urged to form larger HC bench on examining marital status for giving protection to runaway couple||A single bench of the Punjab and Haryana high court has requested the chief justice to constitute a larger bench to examine whether protection can be provided to runaway couples without examining their marital status. The bench said this while hearing a petition filed by a couple from Haryana wherein the man ran away with a woman without divorcing his wife and sought protection. The bench said, “It appears that various benches of this court (of co-ordinate strength) have formed different opinions on the matter which cannot be reconciled easily. Therefore, it is appropriate to request the chief justice to constitute a larger bench to decide the petitions seeking protection.” The expression “person”, the bench added, is used instead of using the word “adult” in view of the fact that this court also seems to have granted protection in certain cases where both the petitioners were had not attained adulthood. “Keeping in view the fact that a large number of writ petitions regarding the issue are being filed, the counsels would be at liberty to request a larger bench for interim relief and expeditious disposal,” it said. In the past few weeks, conflicting verdicts have been given on the issue of protection to runaway couples. On May 11, a bench observed that the “entire social fabric of the society will get disturbed” if the plea for protection from a live-in couple is accepted, while another termed live-in relationships “morally and socially not acceptable”. These judgments were followed by two other benches ruling the opposite. A bench on May 18 held that live-ins are not prohibited nor do they amount to commission of any offence, another observed that such relationships may not be acceptable to all but could not be termed illegal and, therefore, the denial of protection to live-in couples would be a mockery of justice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cj-urged-to-form-larger-hc-bench-on-examining-marital-status-for-giving-protection-to-runaway-couple-101621885453418.html
25-05-2021||Chandigarh||Door-to- door survey starts in Kalanaur to identify people with comorbidities||To check the spread of Covid-19 infection, , the health department on Monday started a door-to- door survey in Kalanaur block of Gurdaspur district to identify people with comorbidities, especially non-communicable diseases.Twenty two medical teams will conduct the survey, said officials. Kalanaur senior medical officer Dr Lakhwinder Singh Athwal said, “People with diseases like hypertension and mellitus diabetes are more prone to get infected with the virus as they have a low immunity. We observed that non-communicable diseases are a major factor behind Covid deaths. We launched this campaign to put such people on medication in time.”Dr Athwal added, “Our mass media wing is creating awareness about the impact of the virus on those with comorbidities. We are appealing to the public to contact health facilities in case they have any symptoms.”He added, “On day 1, we identified 41 persons with non-communicable diseases and we started their medication immediately. Unfortunately, majority of them did not know they had any complication. Since November 2020, we have identified 1,284 patients of mellitus diabetes and 752 patients of hypertension.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/doorto-door-survey-starts-in-kalanaur-to-identify-people-with-comorbidities-101621885452448.html
25-05-2021||Chandigarh||Stop taking subordinates along to new place of posting: Punjab DGP to senior cops||Punjab director general of police (DGP) Dinkar Gupta has directed the senior officers to stop transferring their subordinates and personal staff of their choice to their new place of posting, terming the practice “not permissible”. In a letter shot off recently to heads of police ranges and districts, the DGP said it has come to notice that some police commissioners and senior superintendents of police (SSPs) are taking junior officials such as deputy superintendents of police (DSPs), station house officers (SHOs), and their personal staff along. Such a practice needed to be stopped forthwith, he added.“Allegations of corruption and misconduct by such personal staff, especially readers etc, have come to my notice. Such practices lower the image of the government and the police department besides bringing a bad name to the officers concerned,” the letter read.He further directed the inspector generals of police (IGPs), deputy inspector generals of police (DIGs), police commissioners, SSPs and commandants to ensure that the practice is stopped immediately. “The administration wing or the headquarters will not encourage and accede to such requests in the future. Any such request must be approved by the DGP office,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/stop-taking-subordinates-along-to-new-place-of-posting-punjab-dgp-to-senior-cops-101621885450509.html
25-05-2021||Chandigarh||163 cases pending against MPs, MLAs in Punjab, high court told||At least 163 cases are pending against sitting or erstwhile Members of Parliament (MPs) and Members of the Legislative Assembly (MLAs) in Punjab. This was stated in an affidavit submitted by Arun Pal Singh, inspector general of police, litigation, bureau of investigation, Punjab, during the resumed hearing of a suo motu plea initiated upon apex court orders on monitoring trials against sitting or erstwhile MPs and MLAs. The data has been compiled by the director, bureau of investigation, Punjab, after obtaining information from the commissioners of police and senior superintendents of police of various districts. Satya Pal Jain, additional solicitor general of India, has sought more time to seek information from the Enforcement Directorate on the said matter. The case will now come up for hearing on May 27. 21 cases in Haryana In an affidavit by Sanjay Kumar, inspector general of police, administration and law and order, Haryana, it was submitted that a total of 21 cases – eight against ex-MLAs of the state and two against former legislators of Himachal Pradesh – are still under trial and three out of these have been transferred to the Central Bureau of Investigation in Chandigarh. The high court was appraised that 15 out of the 21 criminal cases are pending before trial courts, whereas, six cases are pending before the appellate/revisional courts. Pandemic delaying probe in 7 cases in Chandigarh An affidavit filed by Sanjay Baniwal, director general of police, Chandigarh, stated that seven cases are pending but all these are in investigation stage. None of these have reached the trial stage. Kuldeep Chahal, senior superintendent of police, Chandigarh, told the high court, “Investigation in these cases has been slightly delayed due to the Covid-19 situation and an effort shall be made to conclude the same at the earliest.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/163-cases-pending-against-mps-mlas-in-punjab-high-court-told-101621885449402.html
25-05-2021||Other||Want to respond to plea into CBI probe against Anil Deshmukh: Lawyer Jaishri Patil to HC||Advocate Jaishri Patil has moved a praecipe in the Bombay high court (HC), seeking that she be added as a respondent in the petitions filed by the Maharashtra government as well as former state home minister Anil Deshmukh. The government and Deshmukh have sought an interpretation of HC’s April 5 order, which directed an independent probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) into corruption allegations made by former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh against the politician. Patil has claimed that as the independent probe ordered by HC was based on her complaint to Malabar Hill police, she should have been added as a respondent in both the petitions. However, as neither the state nor Deshmukh had done so, HC should consider her application and be allowed as a respondent in the petitions. Pointing to the fact that the state had tried to bypass her and pressed for an urgent hearing on May 21 before the bench of justice SJ Kathawalla and justice SP Tavade, Patil in her praecipe has said that the government wanted another bench to interpret parts of the April 5 order to suit its purpose. She has stated that as the order was passed by the bench headed by the chief justice, the interpretation of the order should also be done by the same bench. Justifying her request to be included as respondent, Dr Patil said that as her complaint was the basis of the April 5 order, she should be given an opportunity to explain the grounds of the plaint and the Singh’s intention in the letter which he wrote to the chief minister on March 20 making the allegations against Deshmukh. The praecipe has sought tagging her application along with the petitions filed by the state and Deshmukh, so that she may also be heard and allowed to be added as a respondent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/want-to-respond-to-plea-into-cbi-probe-against-anil-deshmukh-lawyer-jaishri-patil-to-hc-101621885389683.html
25-05-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab asks vaccine makers to speed up deliveries to private hospitals||The Punjab government has requested the vaccine manufacturers in the country to speed up deliveries of doses to private hospitals in the state. Officials said though private hospitals deal directly with the vaccine makers, the state government has decided to play the role of a mediator to expedite the process. Principal secretary (health) Hussan Lal said the department is communicating with the manufactures through the central government. “They have assured to deliver around 2 lakh doses of Covishield soon,” he said. Of the 2 lakh doses, Sohana Hospital in Mohali alone has booked 50,000 shots, said an official privy with the development. “All we want is to increase the availability of vaccine in the state. We had sought requirement from private hospitals and have tied up with the manufacturers,” Lal added. On Monday, vaccine jabs were administered at 23 sites of Fortis, Max Medcentre, Matshya and Suri Jeevan Jyoti in Mohali, Oswal and Fortis hospitals in Ludhiana, Amandeep Hospitals in Amritsar, Pathankot and Tarn Taran, Reliance Industries staff in Hoshiarpur and Columbia Asia Hospital, Patiala. The state government is also expected to start booking of Sputnik vaccine by month- end. But some officials said the bookings may take couple of more weeks. “We have written to Dr Reddy’s who have distribution rights of Sputnik vaccine in India. But for the time being, they have expressed inability to commit to us,” said State vaccination nodal officer Vikas Garg. Drive for 18-45 group to stay suspended for 2 more days The resumption of the inoculation drive for the 18-45 age group may take two more days as 1,14,190 doses of Covaxine are likely to arrive in the state by Wednesday (May 26). “At present, we are left with only 20,000 doses for this category and that was the reason why the drive was suspended for the last three days,” said director (health) Dr GB Singh. The delivery of around 2 lakh Covishield doses is also scheduled to reach the state by the month-end. For the vaccine drive for those aged above 45, the state has around 1.50 lakh doses left and is expecting delivery from central pool by May 28. Now, Pfizer refuses to supply shots directly The state government on Monday issued a statement that vaccine manufacturer Pfizer has also refused to send supply vaccine directly to the Punjab government citing its policy according to which it only deals with the federal government concerned. The development came a day after Moderna refused to supply its vaccine to the state government on similar grounds. Citing a communication from Pfizer, state vaccination nodal officer for Vikas Garg said the firm is only working with the federal governments across the world to supply its vaccine as part of the national immunisation programmes. Garg said besides Pfizer, many vaccine manufacturers such as Moderna and Johnson & Johnson were approached for direct purchase of jabs as per the directions of chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh to explore possibilities of floating a global tender for the procurement of vaccine. He said now the state is still hoping for a positive reply from Sputnik V and Johnson & Johnson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-asks-vaccine-makers-to-speed-up-deliveries-to-private-hospitals-101621885389172.html
25-05-2021||Other||Expand boundary of Tadoba-Andhari Tiger Reserve: Maharashtra CM to forest dept||The boundary of the popular Tadoba-Andhari Tiger Reserve in Maharashtra will be expanded after chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray on Monday directed that the two villages from the buffer zone of the national park be shifted owing to the rising number of tigers in the sanctuary.Located at Chandrapur district of Vidarbha region, Tadoba sanctuary is a popular tourist destination owing to frequent tiger sightings. During a review meeting, Thackeray directed the forest department to expand the reserve area, amid the possibilities of a potential growth in the number of tigers. Out of 312 tigers in state, 203 are within Tadoba and its buffer zone. The man-animal conflict in Chandrapur forest, which houses Tadoba, has resulted in the deaths of 33 people in 2020 and 18 so far this year. “To reduce the conflict and offer free area to the wild cats, the relocation of the two villages should be immediately undertaken,” Thackeray told officers.The state forest department has already relocated locals of four villages from the forest area. “The relocation will help avoid such conflicts. The villagers should be given cash compensation during the relocation. At the same time, measures need to be taken to reduce the accidental deaths of tigers. Most of the tiger deaths have occurred by falling into wells. Measures such as heightening of the fencing walls of the wells should be undertaken,” CM said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/expand-boundary-of-the-tadoba-andhari-tiger-reserve-maharashtra-cm-to-forest-dept-101621885327763.html
25-05-2021||Mumbai||Five underground silos to tackle Mumbai’s flooding woes||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) is constructing five underground water silos at vulnerable spots in the island city to mitigate the flooding that usually happens during the monsoon. Two chronic waterlogging spots have been identified for the pilot project currently under construction: One at Hindmata Junction in Dadar (East) and the other at Gandhi Market near Matunga, both on Babasaheb Ambedkar (BA) road. Both spots get inundated up to over two feet of water during every heavy spell of rain. The road is one of the main connectors of the eastern suburbs to the island city. According to officials, of the five silos, two will be at Hindmata (one under Hindmata flyover, and one under the northbound carriage of BA road). Water from these silos will be channelled from underground pipes to two other bigger underground silos — one at Pramod Mahajan Udyan on Senapati Bapat Road, near Elphinstone station, and one under St Xavier’s ground in Parel.From these two bigger silos, water will either flow into the sea through underground pipes, or used for non-potable purposes. In the long run, BMC plans to set up water-filling points at the two bigger silos at Elphinstone and Parel, for refilling water tankers for non-potable purposes. One more underground silo is being constructed at Gandhi Market under the south-bound carriageway on BA road, which is yet another low-lying area. Three dewatering pumps will pump the surface water into this tank, from where underground pipes will discharge it at the railway culvert near Matunga. P Velarasu, additional municipal commissioner, in-charge of BMC’s stormwater drains (SWD) department, said, “Since this is the first time we are trying the concept in the city, we have selected these two waterlogging spots. Depending on the success with this project, construction of similar silos in other waterlogging-prone spots will begin after monsoon 2021.” Other similar spots identified by the civic body are Postal Colony, Chembur; Oberoi Mall in Goregaon; and the area around Mahalaxmi in South Mumbai. While the silos at Hindamata with a capacity to hold 1,000 cubic metres of water or 1,000,000 litres, each, and the silo at Gandhi Market with the capacity to hold 1,200 cubic metres of water, will be completed before this monsoon, the two silos at Parel and Elphinstone will be completed by monsoon 2022. Velarasu said, “The two silos at Parel and Elphinstone, where work is going on right now, will be completed and used for monsoon 2021. But we have dug up only a portion of both these open spaces. There is more scope to create another silo at each of these open spaces. This will be phase two of the project, taken up after monsoon 2021. We didn’t want to dig up the entire open space in one go.” The total water holding capacity of the tanks at Parel and Elphinstone alone is 50,000 cubic metres, once completed. The first phase, to be completed before this monsoon, will have a total water-holding capacity of 16,000-17,000 cubic metres, Velarasu said. The cost of the first phase is Rs60 crore, while the cost of the entire project is Rs130 crore. Velarasu added, “The project has been designed by the SWD department of BMC) with a local consultant. A local contractor is constructing the silos. SWD department is taking remarks from the civic bridges department, for the silo under the Hindmata flyover.” BMC has maintained it is safe in terms of the structural stability of the flyover, to have silos underneath it, as they are nowhere near the pillars of the flyover. Manoj Baraskar, independent structural auditor, said, “Foundations of flyovers are Pile foundations and go pretty deep. As long as sufficient distant is maintained between the pillars and the tank, it should cause no problem for the structural integrity of the flyover. As far as structural integrity of the road is concerned (near Gandhi Market) we need to regular inspection chambers. Beams of carriageways are likely to be in contact with water accumulated on the surface of the road, so steal in the beams may rust, and need regular inspection. Otherwise there should be no problem at all, and is a good idea.” The idea to construct underground water tanks to hold monsoon flood water was first mooted for Mumbai in early 2019, along the lines of underground water tanks constructed in Tokyo in Japan, to mitigate flooding. BMC was also in the process of signing a memorandum of understanding (MOU) with Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) for the project. Bids were floated in 2019 for constructing underground water silos in Mulund and Bhandup, so as to divert excess rainwater from Mithi river.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/five-underground-silos-to-tackle-mumbai-s-flooding-woes-101621885267782.html
25-05-2021||Other||48 freshwater turtles found dead in Maharashtra; no case filed yet||The forest department in Maharashtra’s Jalgaon recovered carcasses of at least 48 Indian flapshell turtles from an under-construction aqueduct in Asoda village, Jalgaon district, on Sunday. The development incidentally took place on World Turtle Day, observed globally on May 23. While post-mortem reports of the reptiles were not available till the time of going to press, department officials claimed that the turtles had likely died of heatstroke. “Post-mortem reports will be available only on Tuesday,” said Vivek Hoshing, deputy forest conservator, Jalgaon. Flapshell turtles are categorised as ‘vulnerable’ in the International Union for Conservation of Nature’s (IUCN) red-list of globally threatened species, as they face a “high risk of extinction in the wild.” The deaths were reported to the forest department early on Sunday by locals from Asoda, where construction work is underway to provide an irrigation channel from Waghur damn to the agricultural fields of Mamurabad village. A seasonal stream known as the Lavki nullah has been temporarily diverted by the contractor to lay the main water pipeline. A biodiversity register, prepared at village level under the mandate of the Biodiversity Act, had previously documented the presence of these freshwater turtles in the nullah. “It seems that once the kaccha nullah was diverted and the water in it dried up, the turtles living there went to the aqueducts of the main pipeline, which is being built adjacent to the stream. These are metal pipes which absorb a lot of heat. Because there was no mud or water, it is possible that the turtles died of overheating. The pipes were being welded together, which may have contributed to the deaths,” said Hoshing. Despite the scale of mortalities in this incident, the forest department has not yet registered an offence against the contractor or any other persons under the Wildlife Protection Act (WPA), 1972, citing that the Indian flapshell turtle is not protected under the law. Justifying this claim, Hoshing referred to a December 2020 judgment of the Supreme Court (SC) against a Kerala resident, George Kurian, in which it was ruled that possession of a specific sub-species of flapshell turtles (lissemys punctata punctata) will not be punishable under WPA. Kurian was found to be in possession of Lissemys punctata punctata (sometimes known as the South Indian flapshell), which the SC ruled this to be different from the species Lissemys punctata (commonly known as the Indian flapshell), which is indeed protected under Schedule 1 of the WPA.“This is a flippant technicality, and holds no water scientifically speaking. WPA has not been updated since 1972 to reflect changes in modern taxonomy. Scientific names keep changing all the time, but the species remains the same. Lissemys punctata punctata is a sub-species of lissemys punctata, which is afforded the highest protection under the law.A startling number of them have died under suspect circumstances. It warrants an investigation by the forest department,” said Dr Varad Giri, noted herpetologist and taxonomist. Moreover, Giri added that the 2020 SC order concerns only possession of the animal and not its death. “You cannot even kill vermin without permission under the law. The forest department needs to do more in asking who is responsible for these deaths,” he said. When asked for a response to these arguments, Hoshing said, “No, the flapshell is not protected in any schedule of WPA. There is no mention of this specific species, so how can we register an offence? Besides, the incident has occurred on non-forest land, where we have no jurisdiction.” Experts also pointed out that the exact taxonomy the dead flapshells in Asoda is not yet proven. “It is not easy to simply distinguish only by looking. How the forest department come to the conclusion about the sub-species is not clear,” said one herpetologist working in Maharashtra, not wanting to be identified.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/48-freshwater-turtles-found-dead-in-maharashtra-no-case-filed-yet-101621885208791.html
25-05-2021||Chandigarh||Patiala’s Rajindra Hospital reports 208 deaths in a week||Patiala’s Rajindra Hospital has reported 208 deaths in the past one week. Of these, 84 victims belonged to Patiala, while 124 were from other districts.Since the second wave hit the state, Rajindra Hospital, a tertiary healthcare institute of the Malwa region, has recorded over 2,100 Covid deaths.Medical superintendent Dr HS Rekhi said though the number of admissions in the isolation ward has come down by 10-15%, critical patients are still admitted in level-3 wing of the hospital.“This is the main reasons behind the high mortality rate as at least 150 level-3 beds are still occupied. The patients were admitted to the hospital in a critical stage,” he said.Patients from other parts of Punjab and neighbouring states, including Haryana and Delhi, approached the hospital for treatment due to shortage of beds and oxygen supply in their respective areas.“Most of the patients are coming with 30-40% oxygen saturation level. We are hopeful that their condition will improve in the coming days,” Dr Rekhi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/patialas-rajindra-hospital-reports-208-deaths-in-a-week-101621885208296.html
25-05-2021||Chandigarh||Woman arrested for killing son with aide’s help in Gurdaspur village||GURDASPURA woman and her lover have been arrested for killing former’s son at Balwanda village, 26km from the district headquarters. The half-burnt body of the victim, Randeep Singh (26), of Balwanda village was found from Jhanda Labana village drain on Sunday. While Rupinderjit Kaur (45) and Sukhwinder Singh (27) have been arrested, their associate Gurjit Singh of Chak Sharif village is on the run.Police said Rupinderjit and Sukhwinder developed illicit relations six months ago. They duo hatched a conspiracy to kill Randeep, who opposed their relationship. Rupinder’s husband Kulwant Singh and her younger son are in the army. Addressing a press conference, Gurdaspur SSP Nanak Singh said: “A case under Section 302 (murder) and 201 (Causing disappearance of evidence) of the IPC was registered at Kahnuwan police station after Randeep’s body was recovered.”He said a team under the supervision of DSP-detective Rajesh Kakkar was formed. During the investigation, the body, which was half-burnt, was identified. When the body was taken to the victim’s home, his mother refused to identify it. Later, police grilled Rupinderjit and her lover and they confessed to the crime.”“Rupinder started giving sleeping pills to her son two days before executing the crime. They used a hammer and a knife to kill Randeep and also tried to burn his body, which was later dumped into the drain, said the SSP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/woman-her-lover-arrested-for-killing-son-in-gurdaspur-village-101621885148998.html
25-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra mulls unlocking, starting next week||With Covid-19 cases on the decline, the state is planning gradual unlocking from June 1, by allowing shops and establishments dealing in non-essential commodities to operate, albeit with timing restrictions, and government offices to operate with more employees. However, the suburban train network is unlikely to be open for the general public for a few more weeks.Meanwhile, Maharashtra reported 22,122 new Covid-19 cases, which was the lowest single-day spike in 69 days (17,864 infections were reported on March 16). The state tally has now touched 5,602,019. The death toll stands at 89,212 after the addition of 361 new fatalities on Monday. The state has witnessed a steady decline in cases over the past three weeks as the daily caseload dropped below 30,000, from it hovering around 55,000 three weeks ago. The active cases in the state dropped to 348,395 on Sunday, from its peak of 699,858 cases on April 22. The daily growth rate dropped to 0.69% on May 18, from 1.45% on April 30. This has led to the rising demand of relaxation from the ongoing lockdown, which has been imposed in a phase-wise manners beginning from April 5. The ongoing lockdown is in force till 7am on June 1.The deliberation over the gradual relaxation from the lockdown has begun at the state government level. The final decision by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray is expected to be taken towards the end of the week after due deliberation with his cabinet colleagues and the experts from the state task force. The state is expected to allow the establishments from non-essential sector to operate for limited hours, along with the shops and establishments in the essential sector. The timing of operation of the players in essential sector is also expected to increase. “Industrial units, too, may get some relaxations, while the workforce in government offices is expected to go up from the current permission of 15%. However, the establishments like restaurants, malls, multiplexes will continue to remain shut as they have been proved to be superspreaders in the past,” said an official from Mantralaya.The positivity rate in as many as 23 districts (of total 36) is still more than 10% and relaxations from the curbs there is against the guidelines of the Centre and World Health Organisation (WHO). Satara, Sangli, Parbhani, Osmanabad, Hingoli, Beed, Sindhudurg are among those with a high positivity rate. “We are expecting the positivity rate to fall below the benchmark towards the end of the week, so that they, too, get some relaxations,” the officer said.Relief and rehabilitation minister Vijay Wadettiwar said on Monday that the state government was considering unlocking from June 1. He, however, said that it will continue in the districts where cases are still high. “There are currently at least 14 district which we consider to be in the red zones with high number of cases and the restrictions for them cannot be lifted. But for other districts where cases have fallen, some relaxations will be given. After all the industrial losses, livelihoods of the people need to be considered. The modalities for unlocking will be chalked out in the next 4-5 days,” he said.Wadettiwar said that districts with high number of cases may see more restrictions and containment zones. “The districts, which still are hotspot of cases, will have more containment zones, aiming at restricting the rise in cases. We have also directed strict action against people who step out in public places without valid reasons. We have also been emphasising on institutional quarantine of infected people in these districts to break the chain of infection,” he said.The minister clarified that the local trains in the MMR would not be opened for the general public for at least for few more weeks. “There has been lot of demand for allowing the people from various categories to commute in local trains, but it is not possible at least for next few weeks. One of the main reasons for the drop in the cases in Mumbai and surrounding areas is the restrictions on rail commuting. If we allow all to commute in trains, there would be similar crowding, leading to the spread of the virus. We will continue to allow people in health services and government employees to commute,” he said.There were 263,774 tests conducted on Monday, while the number of recoveries were 42,320. The positivity rate stood at 8.3%. The state currently has 327,580 active cases. There are currently 327,580 active patients across the state, of which Pune tops with 48,258 patients, followed by Mumbai with 28,299 active patients. The death toll has now reached 89,212 with Mumbai leading with 14,613 death,s followed by Pune with 11,497 patients. Kolhapur, Satara, Sangli remains to log high number of cases. On May 24, there were 1209 cases in Kolhapur region, which is much more compared to 901 new cases a month back. Satara also witnessed an increase in cases as 1,912 cases were recorded last month on April 24, which jumped to 2,470 on Monday. In Buldhana, there were 641 cases last month on April 24, which jumped to 1190 on Monday. In Kolhapur, there was huge queue outside the Regional Transport Office (RTO) to recover the vehicles seized during the lockdown of those who were travelling without valid reason. In Nagpur, citizens heaved a sigh of relief was lockdown was relaxed. Dr Ishwar Gilada, Secretary General, Organised Medicine Academic Guild (OMAG), said the problem is Covid-19 has now deeply penetrated to the rural pockets. “Many rural people tend to skip testing as Covid-19 is seen as a stigma. The result is entire family gets infected since this mutant is highly virulent,” said Gilada. “Another issue is the inadequate hospital infrastructure as rural pockets have hardly 30 % of healthcare facility which cater to more than 70 % of the population,” said Gilada. “The entire process is delayed due to which more people get infected and even the death rates increase,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-mulls-unlocking-starting-next-week-101621885147746.html
25-05-2021||Other||Covid tests: Three institutes in Lucknow asked to correct data glitches||The details of over 8000 patients, who underwent Covid RT-PCR tests, were filled erroneously by three labs at King George’s Medical University (KGMU), Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGIMS) and Ram Manohar Lohia Institute of Medical Sciences that has created problems in contact tracing, an official letter indicates.The staff at KGMU made the erroneous entries against 3749 samples tested there; there were data entry errors at SGPGIMS with regard to 1078 samples and at Dr Ram Manohar Lohia Institute of Medical Science there were such 4049 samples (total 8876 ), said a letter of the director general medical health to the three institutes.“You may correct the incorrectly uploaded data and also ensure that such errors are not done so that the rapid response teams at the community health centre level are able to perform their duty. Else the responsibility of incorrect data will be upon you,” said DG in his letter to the three premier institutes of the state that collectively conduct the maximum tests in the state via RT-PCR (reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction) method.The issue came to light when rapid response teams went to the addresses mentioned against IDs of the tested persons with Covid-19 positive reports. The teams found the persons had been already given medical kits. On being asked, the persons told the teams that they had given the swab sample again to check their current Covid status (second test).In case, the person gives a sample again for Covid test, the reference ID generated by the labs has to be kept the same as in the first instance so that the teams get the data of the previous test and do not unnecessarily visit their homes again.In many cases, repeat samples of the same person have been mentioned with different IDs generated by the labs. As a result, the teams that went to the address found the person was tested earlier also and had already received medical kit and medical advice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid-tests-three-institutes-in-lucknow-asked-to-correct-data-glitches-101621885027760.html
25-05-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab logs 178 deaths, 4,539 fresh Covid cases||Punjab on Monday reported 178 coronavirus-related fatalities, taking the toll to 13,468, while 4,539 fresh cases raised the infection count to 5,43,475, according to a medical bulletin.The number of active cases dropped from 57,505 on Sunday to 54,996, the bulletin said.The state’s single-day recoveries of 6,803 were also in excess of the daily infection count on Monday.Seventeen deaths were reported from Patiala, 16 from Sangrur, 15 from Ludhiana and 14 from Bathinda.Ludhiana registered 507 new cases, followed by 401 in Mansa, 340 in Amritsar and 334 in Jalandhar.The state’s Covid-19 positivity rate stood at 6.51%, according to the bulletin. The recovery count rose to 4,75,011, it said.There are 387 critical Covid patients who are on ventilator support, 1,011 other critical patients and 6,743 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said.A total of 87,75,622 samples have been collected for COVID-19 testing so far in the state, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-logs-178-deaths-4-539-fresh-covid-cases-101621884910530.html
25-05-2021||Chandigarh||Cong may suffer if 2022 polls are fought under Capt: Pargat||Amid attempts by the Congress leadership to sort out the rift in the state unit, Congress MLA Pargat Singh on Monday said the party’s prospects could take a hit if it goes into the 2022 assembly polls under the leadership of incumbent chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh. “There is resentment against the state government among the people. The chief minister should get his own survey done and he will know,” the Jalandhar Cantonment MLA told reporters after a meeting with cabinet ministers Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and Charanjit Singh Channi at his official flat here. The state polls are due early next year. While he downplayed the meeting calling it “routine”, both Randhawa and Channi have been discontented with the chief minister lately. They are among half-a-dozen dissenting leaders, including former minister Navjot Singh Sidhu, who are trying to regroup. All India Congress Committee (AICC) general secretary in-charge of Punjab affairs Harish Rawat has asked the state leaders not to air their grievances in public. Another Congress general secretary KC Venugopal had also on Friday said the party leadership was watching the developments in Punjab and will take a call on the situation. Pargat also endorsed Amargarh MLA Surjit Singh Dhiman’s call to fellow legislators on Saturday to come together and resign en masse from their seats due to the state government’s failure to fulfil the expectations of the people. “Dhiman did the right thing and others should also speak up,” he said, prodding other MLAs to also come out and express their feelings. Pargat, who had last week accused the chief minister’s political secretary of making a threat call to him, again spoke in Channi’s defence in the harassment allegation by a woman IAS officer. “The matter is being raked up after a gap of two years without any complaint. Why is a lady officer’s name being dragged in all this now?” he questioned, insinuating attempts to arm twist the minister. Meanwhile, Punjab Women Commission chairperson Manisha Gulati, who last week threatened to go on hunger strike if the state government fails to apprise her of its stand in the harassment allegation against the minster, said the chief minister had called up to assure her that the state government would give its reply soon. “Therefore, I have postponed the protest for now,” she told reporters. The chairperson said she was not scared of the consequences of taking up the issue and those who were accusing her of acting under the influence of the state government. “The commission is not under pressure from anyone. I am being trolled by some people, but I do not care. There are some who are asking why it is being taken up after two years. I want to state clearly that there is no delay,” she insisted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cong-may-suffer-if-2022-polls-are-fought-under-capt-pargat-101621884789048.html
25-05-2021||Mumbai||ACB arrests Aarey Colony CEO, his aide over bribe in Mumbai||The anti-corruption bureau (ACB) arrested the chief executive officer of Aarey Milk Colony, Nathu Vitthal Rathod, in a bribery case. His aide and staff member has also been arrested while accepting ₹50,000 cash on his behalf. ACB will now probe if the senior dairy development officer has amassed any disproportionate assets during his service, said a senior ACB officer.Rathod, 42, was also holding charge of deputy commissioner of Worli Dairy, considered as post of a senior bureaucrat.According to ACB, the complainant, slum dweller, who owns unit 32, Aarey Colony in Goregaon. The complainant required permission from the CEO’s office (as the state owns area of Aarey Colony) for carrying out repair work in his house, and hence he met with Rathod and was directed to meet staff Arvind Tribhuvam Tiwari, 57.Upon meeting Tiwari, the complainant was told that to get the permission he needed to pay ₹50,000 to Rathod as bribe and that Tiwari would receive it on behalf of his senior. Following this, the complainant informed ACB on May 14. ACB officers laid a trap at the CEO office and arrested Tiwari while accepting the bribe. Soon after this, Rathod was also held. “They’ve been arrested under sections of the Prevention of Corruption Act. We’ll now dig into all financial transactions of the accused officer and find out if he has amassed any disproportionate assets during his service,” said a senior ACB officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/acb-arrests-aarey-colony-ceo-his-aide-over-bribe-in-mumbai-101621884787753.html
25-05-2021||Other||Mumbai man kills wife after she confronts him about his affair||An online food delivery app employee was arrested by Bhandup police on Sunday for allegedly strangling his wife to death when she confronted him over his affair. According to the police, on Saturday, they had received a call from Sonu Jha, 27, who informed them that his wife Soni, 28, had become unresponsive after falling in the house. The police reached the spot and rushed Soni to a hospital. “She was declared dead by the hospital, following which we registered an accidental death report in the case,” said senior inspector Sham Shinde of Bhandup police station. Shinde said that Soni’s autopsy report stated that her death occurred due to strangulation. “The victim had a ligature mark around her neck after which her death was ruled as a murder,” said Shinde. They then detained Soni’s husband. “Jha was the only person living with Soni and he was present in the house at the time of her death,” Shinde said. During interrogation, Jha confessed that he had killed his wife by strangling her with a saree. He told the police that they had married after a long courtship. However, after getting married, there were quarrels between the couple on regular occasions. Jha in his statement said that Soni was upset with his long hours of work and had found out about his extra-marital affair a few days ago. “On Saturday when Jha returned from work, Soni confronted him about his affair. Enraged with the constant questioning, Jha picked up the victim’s saree and strangled her with it,” said Shinde. The police then arrested Jha for murder under section 302 of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mumbai-man-kills-wife-after-she-confronts-him-about-his-affair-101621884728327.html
25-05-2021||Other||Widely publicise free treatment of black fungus for poor: HC to Maharashtra govt||The Maharashtra government on Monday informed the Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court (HC) that 1,000 hospitals were being empanelled for the treatment of mucormycosis, apart from the 130 existing hospitals treating fungal ailments as well as the 19 medical and surgical packages earmarked for treating the infection under the Mahatama Jyotiba Phule Jan Arogya Yojana (MJPJAY). MJPJAY facilitates cashless treatments to needy patients from below poverty line. HC has directed the state to widely publicise the facility for the “poorest of poor, the illiterate and semi-literate as well as those living in tribal belts”. The information was furnished by the state in a suo motu public interest litigation (SMPIL) instituted by HC after news reports pointed to shortage of oxygen, black marketing of essential drugs to treat Covid-19 and issues pertaining to the last rites of victims of coronavirus. After reports raised an alarm on the rising number of mucormycosis cases in the state and the plight of people from the economically weaker sections who contracted the infection but were unable to afford treatment for it, the court included the issue in the PIL. The state government on May 18, through a government resolution (GR), had said that the grievances of the underprivileged would be considered, and that the treatment for black fungus infection would be covered under MJPJAY. A division bench of justice Ravindra Ghuge and justice Bhalchandra Debadwar in a hearing of the SMPIL on May 21 had asked the state government to ensure “proper distribution” of Amphotericin B injections and other medicines required to treat black fungus and consider the request to cover its treatment – which can cost nearly ₹8- ₹10 lakh – under MJPJAY. On Monday, chief public prosecutor DR Kale for the state said that in line with the May 18 GR, medicines for treating mucormycosis would be made available through district civil surgeons. Referring to a report filed by the regional manager of state health insurance society, Kale said expenses for mucormycosis treatment would be capped, so that non-government hospitals do not raise exorbitant bills. The state government further said that antifungal medicines required for the treatment of the ailment would be provided free of cost to patients admitted in pre-identified hospitals, and district civil surgeon and state health assurance society would reimburse the cost of the drugs. He added that daily consumption of medicines while treating mucormycosis patients would also be monitored through MJPJAY web portal. “The hospitals treating mucormycosis patients would display instructions for the public at large at conspicuous places and make information as regards availability of beds on the portal. This would prevent unscrupulous elements [hospitals] from fleecing poor people by raising large bills. Needless to state, the list of hospitals identified for such treatment and through which the medicines would be made available should also be given wide publicity, so that patients do not land in the wrong hospital for availing treatment on mucormycosis,” noted the bench in its order. The court further directed the government lawyer to take instructions and address the issue of availability of medicines or injections necessary for treating mucormycosis patients and posted the further hearing of the SMPIL on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/widely-publicise-free-treatment-of-black-fungus-for-poor-hc-to-maharashtra-govt-101621884669959.html
25-05-2021||Mumbai||No response to Maharashtra’s bid to buy vaccines||Maharashtra’s efforts to tide over the Covid-19 vaccine shortage by buying directly from global manufacturers have not got any response, as the deadline for global bids ends on Tuesday. The state is likely to extend the duration for manufacturers and suppliers to submit bids for the second time. The current deadline ends on May 25. The Mumbai civic body has also floated the tenders for vaccines and its deadline too ends on Tuesday. It is yet to announce its decision, although it had received three offers for supplying Russia made Sputnik V vaccine. The state floated an express of interest (EOI) on May 17 to procure 50 million doses of the Covid-19 vaccines approved by the World Health Organization (WHO) and the United States Food and Drug Administration, and are being manufactured in other countries. The deadline ended on May 20 and was extended to May 25, as there was no response. “We have not got any response to the EOI floated to procure Covid vaccines,” Rajesh Tope, state health minister, told HT. This comes at a time when the state has suspended its drive for those below 45 years due to non-availability of doses since May 12. It was trying to place orders with Indian and foreign manufacturers to replenish their stocks and reopen all centres. By floating global tenders, the state is aiming at importing the doses of the vaccines manufactured by Pfizer, Johnson & Johnson, Zydus Cadila, Sputnik among others. “We have no option but to extend it further as we need vaccines to immunize those in the 18-45 age group as decided by the Centre. The decision over giving extension will be taken on Tuesday,” Tope said. In case of Mumbai, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has received three proposals till now for supplying Russian Sputnik vaccine. The BMC had last week extended the last date to May 25 for receiving a global expression of interest. The BMC had also sought clarification from the three companies that had submitted their proposals. The clarification was about documents relating to them being the official supplier of the Sputnik vaccine. The three proposals had quoted around ₹1,500 for both doses. Until Monday, the BMC had not extended the tender dates. The civic body too is expected to announce its decision on Tuesday. Meanwhile, Tope again urged the Centre to form a policy for vaccine import at national level. “The state has already urged the Centre to frame a national vaccine import policy to avoid unhealthy competition among states to procure vaccines,” he added. The demand was made in the backdrop of US pharmaceutical giants Pfizer and Moderna making it clear that they will deal only with the central government and not sell Covid-19 vaccines individually to any state. On Monday, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said they have spoken to Pfizer and Moderna for procuring vaccines and both the manufacturers have refused to sell it directly. On Sunday, the Punjab government said that the Moderna Inc. declined their request to procure vaccines by saying that it only deals with the Central government. “The bid was open for all the players and was not sent to specific manufacturers,” the health minister said, in response to a question on any communication received by the state from manufacturing firms such as Pfizer or Moderna vaccines over vaccine supply. The Central government provides free doses for those above 45 years but for the beneficiaries below 45 years of age, the stock has to be procured by the state government. The Indian manufacturers have not given any confirmed supply schedule to the state, except assurance of improving supplies from June. “We are hoping their production capacity will start increasing from June. As soon as the supplies of vaccine stock become regular, we will start the vaccination drive around-the-clock. We will hold the drive for 24 hours a day. I want to immunise the entire population at the earliest and have planned things accordingly,” the chief minister said on Sunday. The state is also not getting enough supply from the Centre that has slowed down its drive for those above 45 years of age. On Monday, it vaccinated 248,251 beneficiaries. Between May 15 and 21, 844,135 people were inoculated, against 1,834,369 in the preceding week of May 8-14 and 1,433,165 from May 1-7. In the last week of April, 2,080,998 doses were given to the beneficiaries, according to the statistics available on Co-Win portal. Inputs from Mehul Thakkar||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/no-response-to-maharashtra-s-bid-to-buy-vaccines-101621884669298.html
25-05-2021||Chandigarh||Three Covid patients diagnosed with black fungus die in Amritsar||Three Covid positive patients, who were also diagnosed with mucormycosis, popularly known as black fungus, died at Amritsar hospitals on Monday.While one patient belonged to Amritsar district, the others were from Tarn Taran and Jalandhar districts. A 65-year-old Amritsar resident died in a local private hospital while two patients, 62-year-old man from Patti, Tarn Taran, and other 75-year-old man from Phillaur, Jalandhar, died at Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Amritsar, on Monday,” said Amritsar civil surgeon Dr Charanjit Singh.GMCH medical superintendent Dr KD Singh said, “Two Covid-19 positive patients, who were also found infected with black fungus, had died at the hospital but the fungal infection was not the main reason behind their death. They died due to Covid-related complications.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/three-covid-patients-diagnosed-with-black-fungus-die-in-amritsar-101621884668840.html
25-05-2021||Mumbai||After mucormycosis, Mumbai sees cases of aspergillosis||Amid rising concerns over mucormycosis cases in the city, doctors are observing growing cases of another invasive fungal infection—aspergillosis– among recovered Covid-19 patients. Doctors attribute it to unregulated usage of steroids among patients infected with the novel coronavirus in the second wave. Mucormycosis is a serious, but rare fungal infection caused by a group of mould called mucormycetes. Similarly, aspergillosis is an infection caused by aspergillus, a common mould (a type of fungus) that lives indoors and outdoors. Doctors said aspergillosis that “mimics mucormycosis” spreads slowly, but also causes blindness, organ dysfunction, loss of body tissue and can reach the lungs of the patients. Healthy people breathe in aspergillus spores every day without getting sick due to high immunity. Taking this as a cue, currently many hospitals are routinely performing a nasal endoscopy for all in-house post Covid-19 patients with low immunity for early diagnosis of invasive fungal infections. “There is a sudden and alarming increase in the occurrence of invasive aspergillosis. Those with a weakened immune system, having uncontrolled diabetes, organ transplant recipients, ones with certain types of blood cancer, and those taking steroids or having lung diseases are at a higher risk of developing health problems due to aspergillus,” said Dr Shalaka Dighe, ENT surgeon, Zen Multispeciality Hospital, Mumbai. Civic-run hospitals like King Edward Memorial (KEM), Parel and Lokmanya Tilak General Hospital, also known as Sion hospital, also have patients with aspergillosis. “We have got patients with either of the fungal infections or with co-infections of mucormycosis and aspergillosis. These fungi remain in the environment always. Earlier, we used to see these types of fungal infection among patients with immunosuppression like cancer, HIV, TB or organ transplant patients,” said Dr Hetal Marfatia, head of the ENT department, KEM hospital. Dr Amol Patil, senior consultant, ENT and skull-base surgery at Nanavati Max Super Speciality Hospital, said the concept of white and black fungus is misleading. Fungi are mainly differentiated as invasive and non-invasive. “Both mucormycosis and aspergillosis are opportunistic invasive fungal infections, which means they affect people with a weakened immune system. If the infection gets detected at a later stage, both require debridement to remove dead tissues. This leads to loss of patients’ eyes, palate and nose. Mucormycosis is more aggressive than aspergillosis,” he said. Mucormycosis commonly affects the nose and para-nasal sinuses and can very quickly spread to the eye and brain. Symptoms are nonspecific and include a blocked nose, bloody or foul smelling discharge from the nose, cheek swelling or pain, swelling of eyes, double vision, loose teeth and pain in the teeth. Invasive aspergillosis most commonly affects the lungs and causes cough with expectoration, blood in the sputum, fever and breathlessness. Involvement of the nose and sinuses results in symptoms similar to mucormycosis. To rule out any confusion, doctors prefer doing fungal culture. “Patients with aspergillosis are usually treated with an antifungal drug called Voriconazole. But if any patient also has presence of mucor, Voriconazole can lead to a flare-up of mucormycosis. In such cases, we use a newer antifungal called Isavuconazole to treat these patients, as it works against both mucormycosis and aspergillosis,” said Dr Dighe. Some states like Uttar Pradesh and Bihar are also reporting candidiasis fungus infection. “Candidiasis, which many people have foolishly named as ‘white fungus’, is harmless. It can be treated with normal antifungal medicines and ointments,” said Dr Patil. Why the rise? Covid-19 patients are often given high doses of steroids which compromises their immunity to fight fungal infections. This is as one of the primary reasons for the growth of fungal infection in the second wave of the pandemic. Dr Lancelot Pinto, an epidemiologist sharing his views on the rising cases of fungal infection stated that there has been a widely held perception the second wave was caused by a virus that was more lethal than the first time around. This, coupled with the fear of a lack of hospital beds, the urgent need to control the infection, and the belief that sicker the patient, higher the dose of steroid should be, potentially could have nudged doctors to prescribing higher and prolonged doses of steroids. “The use of corticosteroids, for a prolonged duration, and in high doses could be contributory (in fungal growth), especially among patients with uncontrolled diabetes, immunosuppressive conditions such as chronic liver disease, kidney disease, and malignancies,” he said. Dr Ajay Doiphode, president, Association of Otolaryngologists (AOI), Mumbai Branch, said Tocilizumab, another immunosuppressive medication that is given to Covid-19 patients is also associated with invasive fungal infections. Abhay Pandey, national president of All Food and Drug Licence Holder Foundation (AFDLHF), said when there was a severe shortage of oxygen for Covid-19 patients in April, many companies producing industrial oxygen (not for human consumption) were forced to produce medicinal oxygen without proper quality check. “There is a possibility that the fungus which remains in the environment may have gotten inside the patients through this sub-standard and polluted oxygen,” said Pandey who has also written a letter to the state health ministry regarding it. Dr Pinto said “There has been speculation around the quality of oxygen, the use of zinc supplements, excessive steam inhalation as being contributory, but these should be considered speculative unless proven.” “It is known that fungus thrive more in moist and damp environments so tropical countries are witnessing more cases of fungal infection. As these molds remain in the environment, it is essential that patients even after recovery maintain proper hygiene and keep wearing masks,” said Dr Patil. Doctors suggest patients remain more vigilant, monitor their blood sugar levels, look for red flags like eye pain, swelling of the eyes and cheek, nose block, cheek pain, and abnormal discharge from the nose. Infected in a week of dischargeSunil Kanal, 62, a resident of Chembur was diagnosed with Covid-19 on April 5. He was admitted to a private hospital on April 9. After 21 days of hospital stay, he was discharged on April 30. But despite repeated requests of his family, the hospital refused to do a CT scan during discharge. Within eight days of discharge, he started having fever which made the family members curious. “I had read about mucormycosis, so I immediately took him to an ENT for a general check-up. Later, he was diagnosed with a similar fungal infection, aspergillosis, which by then had spread to his lungs through his nose and throat,” said Roshan Kanal 38, his son who has already spent around ₹6 lakh on his Covid-19 treatment. Now, the patient is undergoing treatment at Zen Multispeciality Hospital, Chembur. Dr Shalaka Dighe, ENT Surgeon, the treating doctor, said, “At present, we are treating him with an antifungal medicine—Isavuconazole. We are trying to optimise his infected lungs before we can decide on operating upon him. Due to his health condition, we can’t even operate on his infected nose as we can’t put him on general anesthesia. We will do his CT scan in the next two days, depending on the result, we will take the final decision.” THE FUNGAL INFECTIONSBoth mucormycosis and Aspergillosis are opportunistic fungal infections. They affect people with a weakened immune system. The spores of mucor and aspergillus are found in the environment. Inhalation of these spores normally does not have any harmful effects. The body’s immune system destroys them. However, it results in serious infections in immunocompromised patients such as those with uncontrolled diabetes, organ transplant recipients, patients with blood cancer and Covid-19. Mucormycosis commonly affects the nose and paranasal sinuses and can very quickly spread to the eye and brain. Symptoms are nonspecific and include a blocked nose, bloody or foul smelling discharge from the nose, cheek swelling or pain, eye swelling, double vision, loose teeth, pain in the teeth. Invasive aspergillosis most commonly affects the lungs and causes cough with expectoration, blood in the sputum, fever and breathlessness. Involvement of the nose and sinuses results in symptoms similar to mucormycosis. Aspergillosis spreads slower than mucormycosis. Mucormycosis is more aggressive than Aspergillosis. Aspergillosis is normally treated with Voriconazole. Mucormycosis is treated with Liposomal Amphotericin B/ Amphotericin B. The differentiation of fungus as black and white is not scientifically correct, doctors said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/after-mucormycosis-mumbai-sees-cases-of-aspergillosis-101621884548339.html
25-05-2021||Other||Black fungus patients’ kin face agonising test of patience for injections||It took Rahul two days to get a letter from the additional commissioner (administration) permitting 18 doses of the amphotericin B injection for his relative admitted to Chandan hospital in Lucknow for the treatment of black fungus (mucormycosis).Till now, the state has reported 598 cases of black fungus, including over 200 in Lucknow, and there have been 19 deaths across Uttar Pradesh.Having received the letter on May 22, Rahul thought he would get the vials, possibly that day itself. His hope did not bear fruit.Despite having the letter, Rahul has been waiting outside the Red Cross office in Qaiserbagh here for two days to get the injection. He had nothing to show for his effort even on Monday.“It took two days to get the letter from authorities. Now, it is even tougher to actually get the injections at the Red Cross office, while my relative remains in a serious condition,” said Rahul, resident of Gorakhpur’s Chauri Chaura. He was among several other attendants waiting on the Red Cross office campus near the Qaiserbagh bus station here on Monday.Patient admitted to government-run medical colleges and government hospitals get the injection from there (medical colleges and government hospitals) but those admitted at private hospitals need to take injection from Red Cross. The attendants outside the Red Cross office were those who had their relatives admitted to private hospitals.When asked about the situation, Lucknow divisional commissioner Ranjan Kumar said, “We are continuously distributing the injection/medicine for black fungus. The stock is coming and the committee formed to screen the need approves the application for distribution. The supply is coming.”The Red Cross that is supposed to distribute amphotericin B to patients admitted to private hospitals in districts under Lucknow division has received applications from 70 attendants who have their relatives admitted at private hospitals in the state capital and the districts nearby such as Gonda, Kanpur, Unnao, Hardoi, Rae Bareli and Sitapur. Those admitted at government medical colleges/hospitals are provided this injection by medical colleges/hospitals only.“It seems the authorities have evolved this paperwork just to buy time. They do not have the injections and the paperwork took two days that I fear might go in vain,” said another attendant standing at Red Cross office campus, who did not wish to be named.“There had been 40 applications for a three-day dose (18 doses @ 6 per day) that required 720 injection vials. But only 90 have come since Red Cross was entrusted the task of distributing the injection on May 20,” said Indian Red Cross Society (Lucknow) chairman Om Prakash Pathak. “We gave only one-day dose, that is six injections, to 15 attendants/applicants by Sunday, and no fresh stock has come on Monday,” he said.Patients admitted to private hospitals can purchase the injection from medical stores, but there are hardly any injections with the medical stores in and outside Lucknow.According to an order issued by additional chief secretary (medical health and family welfare) Amit Mohan Prasad on May 19, the Red Cross has been entrusted the task of distributing amphotericin B injection for black fungus patients admitted to private hospitals, after approval from the committee.In view of the shortage of these injections, the health department had started an arrangement that medical colleges will get a separate stock. Patients admitted at private hospitals will be provided the doses via open market or through the Red Cross society in four divisions of Lucknow, Varanasi, Agra, Meerut.14 fresh cases, three more deaths With 14 fresh black fungus cases, the state’s tally reached 598. Nineteen deaths have been reported, including 3 at King George’s Medical University on Monday. Those who died included 40-year-old man from Bihar, a 53-year-old woman from Deoria and a 70-year-old woman from Lalganj.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/black-fungus-patients-kin-face-agonising-test-of-patience-for-injections-101621884488330.html
25-05-2021||Other||Varanasi police launches op ‘Dastak’ to identify, trace criminals||Commissionerate of Police, Varanasi on Monday launched operation ‘Dastak’ to identify, trace hardcore criminals and send them to jail.A brainchild of the commissioner of police of Varanasi A Satish Ganesh, operation ‘Dastak’ is a combination of digital and manual policing for ensuring action against the criminals active for the last five years and committed various incidents of loot and contract killing.A Satish Ganesh said that the operation ‘Dastak’ has three phases. In the first phase, the police teams will knock at the door of the criminals and collect detailed information about the criminals from their respective family members and locals and will document the details. In the second phase, which has to be completed with the first phase, the police teams will focus on getting the latest picture of the criminals for their identification. The third phase will focus on tracing the criminals and sending them to jail.He said that with the launch of the operation a list of the criminals, who were involved in various crimes during the last five years, has been sent to police stations in the Varanasi police Commissionerate area for the verification of the criminals. The verification, as part of this operation, will begin on Tuesday. Ganesh said that the cops have been instructed to complete the verification within a fortnight.He said that a mobile app is being developed for digital policing. It will be available at the Google play store soon. The cops in the Varanasi police Commissionerate will upload the app on their mobile. It will have details of the hardcore criminals with their latest photographs and criminal history that will help in tracing the criminals and arrest them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/varanasi-police-launches-op-dastak-to-identify-trace-criminals-101621884428315.html
25-05-2021||Mumbai||BMC to start vaccinating lactating women from Tuesday||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) is set to start vaccinating lactating women in the city from Tuesday, said civic officials. The move comes after the Central government allowed the same on May 19.Dr Mangala Gomare, chief of BMC’s public health department, said, “We will start walk-in vaccination for lactating mothers from Tuesday, as the Central government has allowed it. However, we do not have any permission or guidelines for pregnant women. Hence, they will not be vaccinated for now.”According to BMC officials, they will allow lactating women to get their jabs on walk-in basis and a separate desk will be created for them. They will require a certificate from their doctor and will have to fill a consent form at the vaccination centre. BMC in a statement said, “On the first three days of the week, lactating women can walk in for vaccination. If they wish to get the Covid vaccine, they will need to have a certificate from the gynaecologist treating them on their letterhead regarding vaccination.”The statement added, “Pregnant women must also give their own consent to receive the Covid vaccine after obtaining such a certificate from a gynaecologist. Both the gynaecologist’s certificate and the consent form should be handed over to the vaccination centre.” Consent forms will be available at vaccination centres. Meanwhile, those aged above 45 years will be allowed to walk in for their second dose from Tuesday. The walk-in facility available to this age group for their first dose will continue as well.According to BMC, between Monday and Wednesday, those above 45 years of age will be allowed for both dose of vaccination on walk-in basis and between Thursday to Saturday vaccination will be only on basis of appointment, and on Sunday vaccination will remain suspended.However, the vaccination for 18-44 years of age group remains suspended in civic and government-run vaccination centres.BMC had last week allowed those aged above 60 for walk-in vaccination. however, now it has decided to allow all above 45 years of age to walk in for vaccination on three days.On Monday, 25,211 citizens were vaccinated in the city, of which 9,078 were from the 18-45 age group, 6,007 were aged between 45 and 59, 9,064 were senior citizens and the remaining were healthcare and frontline workers. Overall, 2,980,478 citizens have been vaccinated in the city since January 16.As per BMC data, there are 1.1 million senior citizens in Mumbai, and 0.88 million of them have received their first dose of vaccine. The civic body is now focusing on covering the remaining senior citizens.Meanwhile, those wanting second dose of Covaxin will be allowed on walk-in basis. According to BMC, those requiring second dose of Covishield have to come 84 days after taking first dose, as per the Centre’s instructions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bmc-to-start-vaccinating-lactating-women-from-tuesday-101621884307755.html
25-05-2021||Mumbai||Daily cases drop to 1,049 in Mumbai, positivity rate at 4.7% but fatality still high||The city on Monday reported 1,049 Covid-19 cases against 21,947 tests conducted on Sunday, with a positivity rate for the day of 4.7%. Mumbai also reported 48 deaths. The total case count has reached 697,959 and toll 14,613. Daily case fatality rate reported on Monday is 4.5%. Mumbai has been reporting a higher daily case fatality rate for the past month. The higher number of deaths has been attributed to the spike in cases reported in April and first part of May as well as a rise in critical patients infected during this period. Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner in charge of civic public health department, said, “More deaths occur in patients who are in the intensive care unit (ICU). Patients admitted to ICU take longer to be discharged and remain in the hospital for more than 21 days on an average, whereas the normal cycle of the virus in an asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic patient is 14 days. At least 25% of our ICU patients have been in the hospital for 28 days or longer.” “ICU bed occupancy is higher when compared to normal Covid-19 bed occupancy. Even though independently, more ICU beds are vacant now in comparison to last month,” he added. Of the total 22,078 beds available for Covid-19 patients, 13,704 or 61% are currently vacant.In case of ICU beds, 532 of the total 2,867 beds or 18% are vacant. Of the 1,471 ventilator beds, only 147 or 9.9% are vacant.Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) Save Lives strategy, coined in mid-2020 to reduce the number of Covid-19 deaths, is still in place, Kakani said. In addition, BMC is studying reasons of death in individual cases, and referring the findings to the state task force to come up with solutions. Once the infection reaches the patient’s lungs or other complications related to Covid-19 have reached an advanced stage, it is more difficult to treat them with drugs like Remdesivir, said Kakani. In such cases, the line of treatment doctors opt for takes longer to show its effects.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/daily-cases-drop-to-1-049-in-mumbai-positivity-rate-at-4-7-but-fatality-still-high-101621884187705.html
25-05-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal logs 1,949 fresh infections, 61 fatalities||Himachal Pradesh recorded 1,949 fresh coronavirus infections on Monday, taking the state’s tally to 1,80,983 while the death toll mounted to 2,813 after 61 more patients succumbed to the contagion. Of the new cases, 545 were reported in Kangra, 215 in Mandi, 194 in Shimla, 163 in Bilaspur, 162 in Una, 159 in Hamirpur, 132 in Chamba, 125 in Sirmaur, 116 in Kinnaur, 84 in Kullu and 10 in Lahaul-Spiti. At 23, the highest 23 fatalities were reported in Kangra, followed by seven in Sirmaur, five each in Shimla and Solan, four each in Chamba, Hamirpur and Mandi, three in Kullu and two each in Bilaspur and Una. Recoveries reached 1,53,964 after 3,686 people recuperated. The active cases have come down to 24,181. Meanwhile, Kangra remains the worst hit district with 40,992 infections and is followed by Mandi with 24,308 cases and Shimla 22,969 cases. Solan has 20,580 cases, Sirmaur 13,924, Hamirpur 12,840, Una 11,735, Bilaspur 11,403, Chamba 8,118 , Kullu 7,943, Kinnaur 2,738 and Lahaul-Spiti 2,493.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-logs-1-949-fresh-infections-61-fatalities-101621884128367.html
25-05-2021||Mumbai||Palghar admin returns 23-coach Covid train||Western Railway (WR) on Sunday afternoon took back the 23-coach Covid train, which was stationed at platform 3 of Palghar station, to Valsad as only four patients got treated there and the local administration found it a costly affair. The Covid train, which can accommodate 2,000 patients, arrived at Palghar on May 1 in view of the paucity of hospital beds in Palghar. However, only five coaches were used with four patients admitted and later discharged from there.Palghar district collector Dr Manik Gursal wrote to WR on May 12, mentioning that Covid case load was low in Palghar and there was 50% vacancy in hospital beds at the Covid care centres in the district, hence there was no need of the Covid train. “Hence we took the train and it is currently stationed at Valsad,” said Sumit Thakur, chief public relations officer, WR, adding, “If needed by the administration, we will send the train back to Palghar.”As on Monday, 107,460 Covid cases and 1,993 deaths were reported in Palghar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/palghar-admin-returns-23-coach-covid-train-101621884068851.html
25-05-2021||Chandigarh||Mercury again set to breach 40°C in Chandigarh||With the maximum temperature reaching 37.4°C in Chandigarh on Monday, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted that mercury is likely to cross 40°C on Wednesday with a further rise in the following days.The maximum temperature breached the 40 degrees-mark last on May 17 (40.7°C) and dropped thereafter amid cloudy weather and rain.Speaking about this, the IMD officials said, “With dry weather conditions prevailing in the city, the temperature is likely to soar to 41°C in the next three days. While rain seems unlikely in the coming days, dust raising winds blowing at a speed of 30kmph can be expected.”The maximum temperature of the city went up from 33.8°C on Sunday to 37.4°C on Monday, while the minimum temperature dropped from 23.6°C degrees on Sunday to 20.5°C on Monday. In the next three days, mercury will hover between 39°C and 41°C, while the minimum temperature will remain between 22°C and 23°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mercury-set-to-breach-40-c-in-chandigarh-again-101621884068326.html
25-05-2021||Chandigarh||Black fungus declared an epidemic in J&K||The Jammu and Kashmir government on Monday declared mucormycosis, commonly called black fungus an ‘epidemic’ and notified the J&K Epidemic Diseases (Mucormycosis) Regulations that make it mandatory for all government and private health institutions to report suspected and confirmed cases to the health department. The UT had reported its first death due to the fungal disease, which is increasingly affecting recovering coronavirus patients, on May 21. The victim had been a 40-year-old man of Poonch. The move comes days after the Centre directed all the states and UTs to make black fungus a notifiable disease.According to the notification, all the government and private health facilities and medical colleges are required to follow the guidelines for screening, diagnosis and management of the disease issued by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW), Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and J&K government as amended from time to time.The guidelines make it mandatory for all such facilities to report suspected and confirmed cases to the health department through district-level officers and Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP).The notification also mandates that no person, institution or organisation will spread any information or material for management of mucormycosis without prior permission of the directorate of health services in Jammu and Kashmir. The DHS will constitute a committee headed by Chief Medical Officer (CMO) of the concerned district, which will have specialist of internal Medicine, Ophthalmology, ENT and Epidemiologist as members to review any violations. The violators will be punished under Section 188 of Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/black-fungus-declared-an-epidemic-in-jk-101621883948408.html
25-05-2021||Chandigarh||Illicit liquor units busted in Ambala, Panchkula raids||Two illicit liquor units were busted in Panchkula and Ambala, police said on Monday.A Panchkula police arrested a man for running an illegal liquor factory at his house in Barwala on May 23. During their raid, police found drums of ENA (extra neutral alcohol), the primary raw material for making alcoholic beverages, hidden in a tempo traveller parked inside the house. The police also recovered 1,800 empty bottles from the premises.A case was registered against the accused under sections 61 (1), 4 and 20 of the Excise Act; sections 188, 269, 270, 51-B of the Disaster Management Act; and sections 420, 467, 468 and 471 of IPC.In a similar case, the Ambala police seized large quantities of country-made liquor from an illicit liquor facility in Saha area on Sunday night.The police arrested three labourers — as Ankit, Arvind and Ankur, all from Uttar Pradesh’s Muzzafarnagar. A local resident, identified as Ankit of Barara, was among the four persons booked under relevant sections of IPC and Punjab Excise Act.As per a police statement, 115 boxes of country-made liquor, 15 drums of chemical, six containers of ready liquor, 50 boxes of phenyl, empty drums, bottle caps, labelled stickers, plastic bottles and other raw materials were recovered.Deputy excise and taxation commissioner Alok Pasi said contents of some other drums will also be tested, while investigation is on trace the supply chain.In March too, the police had unearthed a similar illegal facility in Saha after getting a tip-off from the CIA unit of Kurukshetra Police.Pasi said, “We are also trying to understand why this location is being favoured for such criminal activities.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/illicit-liquor-units-busted-in-ambala-panchkula-raids-101621883828240.html
25-05-2021||Chandigarh||Milkha Singh hospitalised after testing Covid+, stable||Four days after testing positive for Covid-19, sprint legend Milkha Singh, 91, was admitted to a private hospital in Mohali on Monday. His condition is stated to be stable.So far in isolation at his house in Sector 8, Chandigarh, he was moved to hospital as a “precautionary measure”, according to his son and ace golfer Jeev Milkha Singh.“He was weak and not eating well since yesterday; so we had to hospitalise him. We thought it is safer to have him under supervision of senior doctors,” said Jeev, who returned from Dubai on Saturday. “Mr Milkha Singh was admitted at Fortis Hospital, Mohali, in the intensive care unit on May 24 with Covid pneumonia. He is stable and presently on low flow oxygen and medical management,” stated a hospital release.Milkha had contracted the infection from one of his staff members at home, though none of the other family members tested positive. The PGIMER had provided him an attendant along with oxygen facilities. The legendary athlete is a four-time Asian Games gold medallist and 1958 Commonwealth Games champion, but his greatest performance was the fourth-place finish in the 400m final of the 1960 Rome Olympics.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/milkha-singh-hospitalised-after-testing-covid-stable-101621883648262.html
25-05-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh caps CT scan rates at ₹1,800||Following the Punjab and Haryana high court’s directions, the Chandigarh administration on Monday capped the charges for CT and HRCT at ₹1,800. It had earlier told court that the rates are to be reduced from ₹2,000 to ₹1,900.Computed tomography (CT) scan and its high-resolution (HR) variant are medical imaging techniques used in radiology to get detailed images of the body non-invasively for diagnostic purposes. Chest CT scan is being widely used by Covid-19 patients to assess the extent of infection in lungs. UT health secretary Arun Gupta said no private diagnostic centre should charge more than ₹1,800 for CT/HRCT scan, which is inclusive of all taxes. Earlier, the Mohali administration had also capped the price at ₹2,000.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-caps-ct-scan-rates-at-1800-101621883528172.html
25-05-2021||Chandigarh||J&K sees lowest daily Covid cases in 4 weeks||Jammu and Kashmir on Monday clocked the lowest daily Covid case total in four weeks with 2,237 fresh infections. It also registered 45 coronavirus-related deaths. The overall death toll in the UT has reached 3,609 and the total cases 2, 72,858. Officials said that 36,272 tests were conducted in the past 24 hours, a reduction of 20% against the average 45,000 daily tests carried out in the week. The overall number of tests has reached 8.27 million. However, a similar number of tests (36,700) eight days ago, had returned positive for 4,100 persons. The number of patients who were cured in the UT on Monday was 3,999, including 2,509 from Kashmir and 1,490 from Jammu. The overall number of people who recovered reached 2, 23,619, pushing the recovery rate to 81.95%.Of the 45 deaths in the UT, 29 were reported in Jammu division and 16 in Kashmir. Of the new cases, 1,383 are from Kashmir while 854 are from Jammu, while 16 are travellers.Covid cases have reached peak levels in May, touching 96,775 cases and fatalities 1,327 on Monday. The number of patients who have recovered from the disease this month so far is 78,178. Officials said with 441 cases, Jammu had the highest number of new infections, followed by 309 in Srinagar district, 204 in Kupwara and 169 in Kulgam. The number of active cases stands at 45,630. Dr Sanjeev Kumar Digra, professor, department of paediatrics, SMGS Hospital, Jammu said irrespective of the hype over the third wave, young children have always been at risk of contracting the infection.“As more of the population is infected with the virus, young children become more vulnerable. Thus, the onus of protecting children is on adults. If they religiously follow Covid-appropriate behaviour, they can ensure that the infection does not reach their kids at home,” he said.Dr Sanjeev said Covid symptoms in children include fever, throat pain, cold, cough, dysentery. “In the second wave, it has been observed that children also tend to develop rashes and redness in eyes. If a child is suffering from high grade fever for four to five days, is not eating well, starts vomiting, not breathing naturally, has bluish discolouration of body parts, has sunken eyes or dry lips, and his/ her oxygen saturation level dips below 94, one must immediately consult a doctor,” he said.Srinagar and Jammu districts have together contributed for about 1.10 lakh cases and 1,713 deaths of the total. The Jammu district has the highest number of 976 fatalities followed by Srinagar with 737 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jk-sees-lowest-daily-covid-cases-in-4-weeks-101621883471325.html
25-05-2021||Chandigarh||Audit raises objection to ₹21cr spending by Chandigarh forest dept||Auditors discovered irregularities in the ₹21.42 crore spent by the Chandigarh forest and wildlife department between April 2019 and March 2020, an RTI reply has revealed.The audit was carried out by the office of principal director of audit (central) which had sent a report to the department on October 28, 2020, seeking the latter’s response in six weeks.As per the audit report, an unauthorised payment of ₹47.77 lakh was made to a security agency for outsourcing its services without executing a legal contract with it. Moreover, in case of some eight tenders, where the total bid amount was ₹18.89 crore, the minimum turnover condition was not met by any of the three bidders. Execution without fulfilling the prescribed terms and conditions led to void contracts, the report stated.Against 10 sanctioned posts, the department employed 33 people, including four extra clerks, two peons, eight drivers, four supervisors and five security guards, with their wages amounting to ₹46.94 lakh in excess expenditure. Due to the planning of an unrealistic budget, excessive saving of ₹1.32 crore was done. The report stated that excessive savings or underutilisation of funds led to parking of funds which could have been utilised for other government functions.While the procurement of goods and services by ministries or departments is mandatory through the government e-marketplace (GeM), it was found that an all-in-one pc, a sofa set, RCC pipes and outsourcing of some other services totalling to ₹11.78 lakh was done outside of the GeM portal. It was also found that one employee, an accountant, was drawing two conveyance allowances per month and an amount of ₹31,000 had been wrongfully paid.Non disposal of unserviceable items which had been lying unused for over nine years in the stores also cost the department ₹14.90 lakh. This included various items like bicycles, barbed wires and lawn mowers among other items, the report stated.Apart from the fiduciary irregularities, the report pointed out that there was a non-deduction of uncommuted pension from hired ex-servicemen, improper maintenance of form number 7 and service books; non-physical verification of consumables and fixed assets; and some other general irregularities.While the report mentions that a response to these objections is awaited, deputy conservator of forests Abdul Qayum said a brief reply had been sent by the department already. “If it is not deemed satisfactory, a detailed response will be prepared and sent,” he said without elaborating on what had been said in the brief reply.Social activist RK Garg, who filed the RTI, said, “The department frequently violates the rules, and the authorities must take strict note of this. How were contracts worth ₹18.89 crore were voided and ₹2.44 lakh spent just on a sofa set needs to be examined.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/audit-raises-objection-to-21cr-spending-by-chandigarh-forest-dept-101621883408241.html
25-05-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh admn puts water tariff hike on hold till next year||The Chandigarh administration on Monday stayed the hike in water tariff till March 31, 2022. The charges were increased by 200 times in September last year.A detailed notification regarding the stay is awaited. It is expected to bring more clarity on the date from which the decision would be applicable, and if the hiked charges that were paid by the residents would be adjusted.After public outcry and criticism from the opposition, the MC general house had passed a resolution in October last year, asking the administration to withdraw its September the notification and stick to the existing rates till the pandemic was over.In response, the UT administration in February this year had asked the MC to reconsider the resolution, and then in May sought some clarifications.UT administrator VP Singh Badnore took the decision in view of the MC resolution and pandemic situation, it is learnt. MC commissioner KK Yadav had opposed the MC resolution on rollback of the hiked tariffs, contending major loss to a financially struggling civic body.The MC collects ₹90 crore per annum as water charges, but the expenditure incurred to maintain supply to its 1.8 lakh consumers is ₹225 crore, said an official. Struggling to even pay salaries to its employees because of a severe financial crunch, the civic body was expected to earn an additional ₹60 crore from the hike.Political slugfest The administration’s decision has come days before the Congress had planned a major city-wide protest against the hike.Facing resistance from various quarters, the top BJP leadership, including city president Arun Sood and mayor Ravikant Sharma met the UT administrator a few days ago and pressed for a rollback.Sharma said, “We always deliver on our promises. Just after my election, I declared that the rollback would be one of my priorities.”Meanwhile, even though Congress welcomed the decision, it questioned its timing. “Why put the hike on hold till March 2022 only? Is it because the MC elections are due in December this year,” asked HS Lucky, chief spokesperson of city Congress.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-admn-puts-water-tariff-hike-on-hold-till-next-year-101621883351380.html
25-05-2021||Lucknow||Lucknow Development Authority starts community kitchen for kin of Covid patients, vaccination for staff||The Lucknow Development Authority (LDA) on Monday started a community kitchen that would provide free meals to the kin of Covid patients who are undergoing treatment at various hospitals in the city. Abhishek Prakash, vice chairman of LDA, who is also the district magistrate, reviewed preparation of food in the kitchen that is operating from the LDA’s community centre in Gomti Nagar.“A large number of people from outside Lucknow are also undergoing treatment in the state capital. For kin of such Covid patients making arrangement of food is an uphill task,” said Prakash. “The centre will provide lunch and dinner to the attendants of patients. Those who need the service can contact at this mobile number 7081101777. Proper hygiene will be maintained in the kitchen to make sure quality food is served,” Prakash said. Even last year during the lockdown, the development authority had provided food packets daily to the needy across the city. Also in the day, the LDA also started vaccination drive at its Gomti Nagar office for its employees and their family members. To note several employees of the development authority had succumbed to Covid in the last two months.On day one of the drive, 240 people in the age group of 18-45 years were vaccinated. While 70 people above 45 years also took the jab.Secretary, LDA, Pawan Kumar Gangwar has also issued an appeal to staff members to get vaccinated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lucknow-development-authority-starts-community-kitchen-for-kin-of-covid-patients-vaccination-for-staff-101621883287644.html
25-05-2021||Chandigarh||Remdesivir row: FIR recommended against Mohali’s Mayo Hospital||Finding Mayo Hospital (now Mount Star Hospital) in Mohali’s Sector 69 guilty of black-marketing 83 remdesivir injections in the past one month, a four-member inquiry committee has recommended penal and legal action against it. Remdesivir is used for the treatment of Covid patients and is being provided to private hospitals at controlled rates by the state government. The inquiry was initiated after allegations of irregularities at the private hospital.In the report submitted to Mohali deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan, the committee has recommended an FIR against the hospital management, chief financial officer (CFO) Mukesh Sharma, his son Kshitij Sharma and the pharmacy on its premises. The hospital changed its name to Mount Star about 10 days ago due to an ongoing litigation.The committee found that bills for the injection were issued in the name of a prominent cement manufacturing firm besides the CFO and a few doctors of the hospital. One bill was also issued in the name of a woman on March 17 even as she was admitted on March 18. While doctors reportedly denied getting any injections, the reply to the show-cause notice issued to the hospital was also unsatisfactory, the committee stated in its report.When the controversy erupted, the three directors of the hospital — Deepak Tyagi, Virender Dhankhad and Dr Manoj Sharma — had accused the CFO and his son of illegally procuring remdesivir injections and selling them at a premium to patients outside the hospital. The CFO, on the other hand, has alleged that the directors had fabricated documents pertaining to the drug sale to frame him. Both allegations are being probed by police.Subdivisional magistrate (SDM) Jadgeep Sehgal, who was part of the inquiry committee, said: “When the management was aware that the CFO is selling injections illegally, then why did they not inform the administration? Also, how come the pharmacy gave an injection to the CFO’s son? It is clear the hospital made huge profit by selling the injections in the black market.”According to sources in the administration, the hospital procured the injections from the state government for ₹1,800 each and sold them for nearly ₹40,000, pocketing over 2,000% profit, even as private facilities are required to sell remdesivir at the same rate at which it is procured under the National Health Mission. Its current price varies between ₹1,150 and ₹2,500, depending on the brand.“I have received the report, on the basis of which strict action will be taken against the hospital,” said the deputy commissioner. An FIR will be registered against the guilty under the Disaster Management Act, Epidemic Diseases Act and other relevant penal provisions.The inquiry committee also included deputy superintendent of police Deep Kamal, senior medical officer Dr Vijay Bhagat and drug inspector Jai Jai Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/remdesivir-row-fir-recommended-against-mohali-s-mayo-hospital-101621883228673.html
25-05-2021||Chandigarh||HP extends corona curfew till May 31||The Himachal Pradesh Cabinet, which met on Monday, decided to extend the corona curfew in the state for another week till May 31. In the meeting, which was presided over by chief minister Jai Ram Thakur, it was decided that private hospitals in the state will be encouraged to conduct vaccinations. It was suggested that members of legislative assembly (MLAs) along with sub-divisional magistrates (SDMs) review the treatment being provided to Covid patients in home isolation in their respective areas. The Cabinet also approved the excise policy for the financial year 2021-22, which envisages a collection of ₹1,829 crore – ₹228 crore higher than the financial year 2020-21, thereby registering an increase of 14%. Considering the present situation, the excise year 2020-21 has been extended by one month up to June 30. The new excise policy will be operational for nine months from July 1 to March 31, 2022. Approval was also given for renewal of retail excise vends in the state for the year 2021-22 for a renewal fees of 3% of the value of unit or vend. This has been done to augment the government’s revenue, reduce the price of liquor and curb its smuggling from neighbouring states. The Cabinet also decided to extend the year’s toll leases by one month up to June 30. The leases for 2021-22 will be valid till March 31, 2022. It approved a new scheme for implementation of a project on fodder development as per the announcement of the chief minister in the 2021-22 budget. The project envisages propagation of planting stock of perennial high-yielding grass species, fodder trees and their further dissemination on farmer’s fields as well as gausadans in the state. The Cabinet approved 33 posts of different categories, 11 each in newly created municipal corporations in Mandi, Solan and Palampur for smooth functioning of these corporations and 20 posts of drivers in agriculture department. It also decided to open a new sub-tehsil at Thakurdwara in Kangra and Telka in Chamba district. A sub-tehsil Nagrota Surian in Kangra district will also be upgraded to tehsil along with creation of requisite posts. The ministers gave the nod for opening a new division of the public works department at Sarahan in Sirmaur district at Gagal Shikor along with two new sections at Sarahan-II and Gagal Shikor. They also decided to open a new Government Pharmacy College in Sulah Vidhan Sabha area of Kangra district. Around 34 vacant posts of associate and assistant professors will be filled at Dr YS Parmar Government Medical College, Nahan; Pandit Jawahar Lal Nehru Government Medical College, Chamba; Shri Lal Bahadur Shastri Government Medical College, Ner Chowk; Dr Radhakrishanan Government Medical College, Hamirpur; IGMC, Shimla; and RPGMC, Tanda. A new post of assistant professor in the rheumatology cell in the department of general medicine in IGMC, will be created, it was decided. Five vacant posts of professors, assistant professors and associate professors will be filled in the department of nephrology in IGMC Shimla and RPGMC, Tanda, it was decided. The cabinet also accorded its approval to procure a CT Scan 128 Slice machine at a cost of ₹4.28 crore for RPGMC, Tanda. The community health centre in Dharampur, Solan will be upgraded from a six-bedded unit to 50-bedded unit. The ministers also agreed to shift the health sub-centre Tatapani in Mandi district to Sanwidhar Khanderi. Legislators can now use flags on vehicles Himachal Pradesh legislators in can now use flags on official, private and hired vehiclesso that they can get their due recognition.The Cabinet has authorised Vidhan Sabha speaker to specify the design of the flag, said urban development minister Suresh Bhardwaj. Most legislator had been yearning for permission to hoist flags as the government has allowed bureaucrats and police officers to use flags on their vehicles. After the government had limited the use of the red beacons in 2017. The Vidhan Sabha in 2019 issued stickers from the Assembly for legislators’ vehicles.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hp-extends-corona-curfew-till-may-31-101621882868431.html
25-05-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh tricity’s single-day Covid count drops to 611||The number of new Covid-19 cases dropped to 611 in the tricity on Monday, even as 20 more people succumbed to the virus.After crossing the grim milestone of 600 on March 19, the daily infections had peaked at 2,612 on May 10 and have been on the decline since then. However, even as the second wave is receding, the number of deaths has been piling up.On Monday, Mohali and Chandigarh reported seven casualties each while six patients succumbed in Panchkula. In terms of cases, Chandigarh recorded 245 cases, followed by 218 in Mohali and 148 in Panchkula. Recovery rate across the tricity remained over 90% while positivity rate dropped to 5% in Mohali and 7% in Chandigarh. Panchkula saw a spike in positivity rate to 15.7% after dropping to 6.9% on Sunday. With more people being cured than those testing positive, the active case load has dropped to 11,059 from 12,223 the previous day. As many as 687 patients were discharged in Mohali and 684 in Chandigarh on Monday.Dr KK Talwar, former PGIMER director and health adviser to Punjab Government, said the death toll is expected to stay on the higher side for at least three weeks after the cases see a decline. “We should see an improvement in the situation in early June,” he said, adding that lockdown curbs should be eased in a gradual manner to ensure that cases do not see a jump again. Meanwhile, Chandigarh administrator VP Singh Badnore expressed serious concern over the number of fatalities. He directed the social welfare secretary that children orphaned due to Covid-19 should be taken care of at government welfare homes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-tricity-s-single-day-covid-count-drops-to-611-101621882809969.html
25-05-2021||Chandigarh||Lockdown curbs relaxed; all shops to open in Chandigarh||After three weeks of closure, all non-essential shops will be allowed to open in Chandigarh from Tuesday, but with restricted timings.In the Covid review meeting on Monday, UT administrator VP Singh Badnore decided to give some relief to traders, who have been protesting the closure. All shops dealing in non-essential items will be allowed to open from 9am to 3pm, except on Saturday and Sunday, when the weekend curfew will continue. Meanwhile, shops selling essential items, such as vegetables, fruits, milk and grocery, will remain open till 5pm on weekdays and 2pm at weekends. However, chemist shops can operate 24x7.All shop premises must be sanitised, and all workers and customers should wear masks. Market associations are to ensure availability of masks, both at shops and entry points to markets. They will also have to ensure that there is no congestion or crowding inside shops or in open areas of the market.The decision was taken keeping in view a substantial reduction in the number of Covid-19 cases, the loss of livelihood for daily wagers and financial setback to traders, shopkeepers and other commercial organisations, said a UT spokesperson.Welcoming the move, Charanjiv Singh, president, Chandigarh Beopar Mandal, said, “The decision is in right direction and will provide relief to all traders.”The administration had on May 3 decided to impose a weeklong lockdown in the city, wherein all shops, except those selling essential items, were shut down. The lockdown was twice extended keeping in view the continuos rise in Covid-19 cases.Other restrictions to continue till 5am on June 1Meanwhile, the administration decided to keep all shopping malls, cinema halls, theatres, museums, gyms, libraries, spas and salons closed. Sukhna Lake and Rock Garden will also continue to remain closed, though parks will remain open from 6am to 9am for morning walk.Night curfew from 6pm to 5am will continue, and weekend curfew will also be imposed from 6pm on Friday to 5am on Monday.Restaurants will not be allowed any in-room dining. However, home delivery (till 10pm) and takeaway (till 5pm) will be allowed. Though Sampark Centres will remain open from 9am to 5pm, they will have to strictly follow Covid protocol.As far as possible, private sector employees should work from home, the administration has decided, though no action will be taken against private offices remaining open, wherever necessary. Sport centres will remain open for national players and those preparing for Olympics and national games. While other gatherings remain banned, marriage functions and funerals will be allowed, with a cap of 20 and 10 attendees, respectively.Badnore said the restrictions will be reviewed and reimposed if the pandemic situation does not improve in the city. He also decided that the traders’ demand for rent exemption in government-owned/allotted shops will be separately examined along with a similar demand for relaxation in electricity and water charges and property tax.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/lockdown-curbs-relaxed-all-shops-to-open-in-chandigarh-101621882628921.html
25-05-2021||Other||Delhi police visit Twitter offices in city, Ggm over ‘toolkit case’||New Delhi: The Delhi Police on Monday said they have sought a clarification from Twitter in connection with a tweet by Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP’s) national spokesperson Sambit Patra about an alleged toolkit released by the Congress party that the micorblogging site tagged as “manipulated media.”Delhi Police officers on Monday evening visited offices in South Delhi’s Lado Sarai and Golf Course Road in Gurugram. A police team from Lodhi Colony’s special cell visited the offices to secure the participation of Twitter’s Managing Director Manish Maheshwari as part of the probe. “The person(Manish Maheshwari) who had to join investigation said he is not the concerned person. He sent a reply to the DCP of special cell that he was part of Twitter India and not Twitter Inc. Any tagging to that concerned tweet was done by Twitter Inc. Though his bio said he is the MD of Twitter in India. So we visited the Twitter office to summon the concerned and verify his claims. This is just a preliminary inquiry,” a senior police officer said. The visit came after the special cell of Delhi Police asked Twitter to explain the “manipulated media” tag.  The city police’s special cell has been conducting an enquiry into a complaint filed with the police chief and the Tughlak Road police station on May 18 by two Congress party leaders, seeking a first information report (FIR) against some BJP leaders for allegedly “forging documents, and circulating fabricated material on Twitter under the hashtag CongressTolkitExposed.” No FIR was registered till Monday evening in the matter, the police said.But it wasn’t immediately clear whether the police were investigating this or the “manipulated media” tag which means, according to the platform’s policies, “deceptively altered media”. Twitter flagged the Patra tweet on Friday. In his tweet, Patra released details of the Toolkit, a social media campaign playbook, that the Congress allegedly prepared to defame Prime Minister Narendra Modi and build a biased narrative over India’s management of Covid-19, and the Central Vista project. The IT ministry has already written to Twitter , expressing its displeasure at the tagging, and asking it to remove the “manipulated media” descriptor. “Delhi Police is enquiring into a complaint in which clarification is sought from the Twitter regarding the classification of a tweet by Sambit Patra as manipulated . It appears that Twitter has some information which is not known to us on the basis of which they have classified it as such. This information is relevant to the enquiry. The special cell, which is conducting the enquiry, wants to find out the truth. Twitter which has claimed to know the underlying truth should clarify,” the Delhi Police said in a statement released on Monday evening by their spokesperson Chinmoy Biswal.Twitter did not immediately respond to queries on the incident. On May 18, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Sambit Patra posted two purported documents of the Congress’s research department on Twitter and called them a toolkit with “elaborate plans” to defame Prime Minister Narendra Modi, politicise religion and help build a “biased narrative” over Covid-19 management and the Central Vista project. Other BJP leaders also joined Patra in the allegations.Rajeev Gowda, who heads the Congress’s research department, immediately hit back and accused the BJP of propagating a fake “toolkit” on Covid-19 mismanagement and attributing it to his party. The same day Godwa and Rohan Gupta, chairman of the party’s social media department, filed a police complaint.Gowda on Monday said, “This is an effort to cover up the whole thing. The BJP hatched a conspiracy to cook up a forged document and they have been caught. Now they are trying to browbeat twitter. They have no legal authority to do that.”On Wednesday, a case was registered in Raipur in Congress-ruled Chhattisgarh against the state’s former chief minister Raman Singh and other BJP leaders for allegedly promoting enmity by allegedly spreading fake news related to the “toolkit”. In response to a summons from Chattisgarh police, Patra has sought a week’s time. A Twitter spokesperson declined to comment on the matter. Patra did not respond to requests for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-police-visit-twitter-offices-in-city-ggm-over-toolkit-case-101621882627682.html
25-05-2021||Other||Minister’s brother appointment row: University VC sends report to governor||LUCKNOW Vice chancellor of Siddharth University, Kapilvastu, Prof Surendra Dubey on Monday confirmed that chancellor governor Anandiben Patel had sought a report about the appointment of state’s basic education minister’s younger brother in the university and said he had sent his report to the governor.The appointment of Arun Kumar, UP’s basic education minister Satish Dwivedi’s brother, as assistant professor in psychology, under the economically weaker section (EWS) quota, had created a political storm with the opposition seeking minister’s resignation on the issue.Arun’s wife is also an assistant professor in another institution, reason why opposition parties claimed that his appointment under EWS quota wasn’t justified. However, the VC said the EWS certificate produced by minister’s brother was issued by the district administration. “If the document submitted by him turns out to be fake, the university will take action against him as per the rules which includes his termination and recovery of salary. Arun joined the university on May 21,” the VC added.“I was not even aware that Arun is the brother of the basic education minister in the UP government,” the VC said adding that though he was aware of viral posts on social media pertaining to minister’s brother appointment, he would order a probe only if asked by a competent authority to do so.“I will order probe only if any competent authority ask me to get the matter investigated. On the basis of social media reports, EWS certificate of the faculty members will not be made public,” the VC said.“Posts were advertised in October or November 2019. Arun used EWS certificate that was valid for a period of one year. The last date for submitting application was December 2019. The scrutiny of the applications got delayed because of pandemic COVID-19 that broke out in March 2020. Subsequently, Arun was appointed by the selection committee in March 2021,” the VC said.Meanwhile district magistrate Siddharth Nagar, Deepak Meena said the certificate of Economically Weaker Section (EWS) that was issued to the minister’s younger brother in 2019 by the district administration was “genuine”.“It was valid for a period of one year. The university concerned must have cross checked its validity when he applied to the post of assistant professor,” the DM said.IPS Amitabh Thakur and his wife social activist, Nutan Thakur lodged a complaint with governor Anandiben Patel, who is chancellor of the university, saying that prima facie the minister’s brother used EWS quota to get the job which “looks to be fake” and an inquiry should be set up to settle the dispute.The basic education minister Satish Chand Dwivedi had denied any foul play in his brother’s appointment.“My brother got selected to the post of assistant professor through a fair selection process followed by the university. Anyone having doubts on his selection may seek probe,” the minister said in a video statement.The minister added that he was not involved in the selection process in any way. Asked about his brother using EWS quota, the minister said if a family member is earning well, it doesn’t mean that all members of the family are financially stable.“My brother applied for the post using an income certificate issued by the district administration which must have been checked by the university,” said the minister who represents Itwa constituency in Siddharth Nagar district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ministers-brother-appointment-row-university-vc-sends-report-to-governor-101621882328169.html
25-05-2021||Other||Water police keep vigil to prevent dumping of bodies in rivers||: In a bid to stop dead bodies from being dumped in the Ganga and other rivers, Jal police is busy patrolling the rivers on motorboats round-the-clock. Besides stopping people from dumping bodies in rivers, Jal police is also ensuring that buried bodies do not get uncovered and fall in the rivers as the river changes course from time to time.Senior police officials are also inspecting different ghats in the district regularly and are patrolling in the river with their teams.Teams of Jal police, PAC and SDRF have been deployed at different ghats of the district to stop people from immersing or burying dead bodies. However, no dead body has been found floating in rivers yet, officials claimed.On Sunday, SSP Sarvshrestha Tripathi, SP Crime Ashutosh Mishra, SP trans-Yamuna Saurabh Dixit and SP City Dinesh Kumar Singh patrolled the waters in Sangam area and inspected the cremation ghats. They issued instructions to Jal police, PAC and SDRF teams to remain alert and keep strict watch at the ghat and surrounding areas.SP Crime Ashutosh Mishra said Jal Police personnel have been asked to remain mobile on motorboats and water scooters. A PAC platoon along with two motorboats have been deployed at Shringverpur ghat, an SDRF team with two motorboats are present at Phaphamau Ghat, half PAC platoons along with one motorboat each are deployed at Arail and Chhatnag Ghats. Moreover, Jal police teams with motorboats are active at Dshahshmegh and other ghats. SP Crime further said no dead body had been found floating in river. All steps were being taken to ensure that bodies were properly cremated instead of being immersed or buried in sand, he added.Earlier, video footages and photographs of graves at Shringverpur and other ghats have gone viral around a week back. Later, some videos of dogs digging graves and feasting on bodies also went viral following which administration spring up into action. Not only force was deployed at ghats, but efforts were launched to cover up the bodies that have come up in the sand due to winds or rains.Residents living on riverbanks said that large number of bodies buried in sand may come up and pose health hazards if water level rises in coming days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/water-police-keep-vigil-to-prevent-dumping-of-bodies-in-rivers-101621882208240.html
25-05-2021||Gurugram||Govt using Delhi Police to intimidate Twitter, says CPI(M)||The CPI(M) on Monday alleged that the central government was using the Delhi Police to "intimidate" Twitter for "political purposes".The Delhi Police's Special Cell on Monday served a notice to Twitter India in connection with a probe into a complaint about an alleged 'Covid-19 toolkit' and asked it to share information based on which it had classified a related tweet by BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra as "manipulated media", officials said."Priority of these times is to focus on providing healthcare, medicines and vaccines. Union Home Minister instead unleashes Delhi Police on a social media platform to intimidate it for petty and partisan political purposes.Inhuman. Shameful," tweeted CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury.Two teams of the Delhi Police also descended on Twitter's offices in Delhi and Gurgaon on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/govt-using-delhi-police-to-intimidate-twitter-says-cpim-101621881284796.html
25-05-2021||Chandigarh||GADVASU to hold week-long free milk adulteration testing camp||To create awareness regarding milk adulteration among residents, College of Dairy Science and Technology (CODST), Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (GADVASU), will be organising a week-long free milk adulteration testing camp from May 26, which will continue till June 1, observed as World Milk Day.During this camp, milk will be tested free of cost for adulterants, and residents from across Punjab can participate. As per officials, residents may bring a minimum of 100ml chilled raw milk samples in clean and dry glass or plastic bottles to CODST between 8am and 1.30pm on these dates. The milk sample bottles should be labelled with name and contact number of the person bringing them. The milk samples will be analysed at the college and the quality results will be conveyed through WhatsApp or text messages on the following day.For any query regarding the camp, residents can contact 0161- 255-3308.CODST dean Ramneek said adulteration of milk by unscrupulous persons was usually done for increasing the quantity of milk, extending shelf-life, maintaining SNF, and avoiding detection of sour milk. GADVASU vice-chancellor Inderjeet Singh said the camp was being organised to spread awareness among residents regarding milk adulteration.He stated that the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) established June 1 as World Milk Day, which celebrates the contributions of the dairy sector to sustainability, economic development, livelihoods, and nutrition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/gadvasu-to-hold-week-long-free-milk-adulteration-testing-camp-101621881908520.html
25-05-2021||Noida||Residents push for developing green belt in Sector 77||Residents are demanding that the Noida authority develop a 60-acre plot that is currently a dust bowl located in Sector 77 into a green zone. Sector 77 and adjoining areas are home to a number of high-rises.“We have been pursuing the matter with the authority for quite some time. It will help not just Sector 77 but neighbouring areas as well by reducing dust pollution,” said Amit Gupta, a resident of Prateek Westeria, Sector 77.Deepak Mittal, a resident of Antriksh Forest in the same sector, said that his high-rise is adjacent to this proposed green belt which he had been seeing barren for over a decade. “Since the area is large with loose soil, whenever wind blows it brings dust directly into our houses,” Mittal said.“The city has seen so many plantation drives. I don’t understand why this (the plot) had been left out. It’s high time that the revival of this green belt is taken seriously,” said Sachin Goyal, a resident of JM Orchid, Sector 76.According to Noida authority officials, the work will begin soon.“We have sent the proposal and the work will begin soon. We will be exploring the option if it should be developed on Miyawaki afforestation method or not. Due to Covid-19 pandemic, many residents have approached us to plant more medicinal and oxygen generating trees like peepal, neem, banyan, and sahajan,” said IP Singh, officer on special duty, public health, Noida authority.The Miyawaki method revives the green cover on degraded land using little water by retaining moisture with help of stubble and straw, the officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/residents-push-for-developing-green-belt-in-sector-77-101621881909084.html
25-05-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad to come up with dedicated child hospital ahead of third Covid-19 wave||To tackle a possible third wave of Covid-19, the Ghaziabad administration on Monday said it will acquire a private hospital on the Delhi-Meerut Road and convert it into the district’s first dedicated child hospital.The hospital will be equipped with 60 beds for children aged up to 12 years and will also have one ventilator/ICU ward, said district officials. An oxygen plant will also be setup for ensuring regular supply.Confirming this, district chief medical officer (CMO) Dr N K Gupta said, “It will be acquired as we have done with other private hospitals during the pandemic. The hospital staff will remain and in case of any shortage we will also provide staff.”During his recent visit to Ghaziabad, UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath had directed officials to come up with paediatric ICU (PICU) beds for children in case they are affected in a possible third wave in the future.“The children’s guardians will get updates on health status 3-4 times a day. The doctors of the hospital will also be in touch with experts of other medical institutions virtually,” district magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey said in a press statement. “We have also directed private hospitals to reserve 10 beds each for treatment of children.”According to official records obtained from the district health department, about 677 children up to the age of 10 were infected with Covid-19 from April 1 to May 13 this year.The PICUs for children will also be setup at the district hospital and the district women hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-to-come-up-with-dedicated-child-hospital-ahead-of-third-wave-101621881848137.html
25-05-2021||Noida||Three recovered Covid patients succumb, families accuse Ghaziabad hospital of negligence||Ghaziabad: Chaotic scenes were witnessed Monday morning at the Sarvodaya Super Speciality and Heart Hospital in Ghaziabad where the families of three post-Covid patients, who died within a short span of each other, allegedly engaged in a spat with the hospital authorities, accusing them of medical negligence. Finally, the police reached the hospital and pacified the families of the victims. The hospital authorities identified the three victims 54-year-old Mona Gambhir and two patients aged 62 years and 52 years. According to the families, the oxygen supply allegedly got disrupted and the hospital authorities were allegedly lax on their part, which they said claimed the lives of the patients. “It is a case of negligence. My nephew was present at the hospital where my sister was under treatment; her oxygen level was 91. On Monday when my nephew went to see her at 8am, she was lying with her mouth open on the bed. She was on a Cpap system with oxygen. The police also arrived,” alleged Tarun Bajaj, Mona’s brother. The Cpap (Continuous positive airway pressure) is used to help patients who have obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) breathe with ease during sleep. The machine raises air pressure in the throat so that the airway does not collapse while breathing.“She had been cured of Covid and thereafter, was admitted at the hospital for the past eight-10 days. They first put her on normal oxygen and later on the Cpap system. It is due to negligence of the hospital that patients suffered such a condition,” he alleged further. The families of the other two victims could not be contacted despite repeated attempts. Chief medical officer Dr NK Gupta said that he got in touch with the hospital after the incident. “I spoke to the hospital authorities and have asked for a detailed report. We will get the incident inquired,” he added. According to the medical superintendent of the hospital, following the commotion, the staff at the hospital declined to continue working and had to be put at ease. “The families raised different allegations and all three were post-Covid patients. There was lung involvement and all three patients had developed severe infection. We put them on a ventilator. Both women patients were taken from the Cpap system to a ventilator on Monday and they could not survive. Another male patient was already on a ventilator. Their attendants were also told to shift them to higher centres if they wish,” Dr Manoj Jain, the superintendent of the hospital, said, adding that the three deaths took place within the span of an hour.“They also raised allegations that the oxygen system was not functioning. We have a centralised oxygen supply system and if it developed any fault, other patients, too, would have also suffered complications. However, other patients were not affected. Our staff also got panicked due to the commotion,” he added. The police, meanwhile, said they have not received any complaint so far from the families.“Our team reached the hospital to maintain law and order. We have not received any complaint about the incident so far. In case we get a complaint, we will forward it first to the health department for an inquiry, as per procedure, under sections of medical negligence (if any),” said Nipun Agarwal, superintendent of police (city 1).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/three-recovered-covid-patients-succumb-families-accuse-ghaziabad-hospital-of-negligence-101621881847591.html
25-05-2021||Noida||Noida: Long queue for drive-through vaccination at GIP Mall||A two-kilometer long queue of cars leading up to the GIP Mall in Noida’s Sector 38 was seen on Monday for the drive-through vaccination camp there where the second dose of Covaxin was administered for those who were 45 years and older (45+).The mall’s parking lot has been a vaccination centre since May 22 from 10am to 4pm. Monday’s queue was a first.“The centre has a cap of administering 200 doses a day. However, around 300-350 cars had lined up at the centre. People had started coming at 8am itself,” Praveen Kumar, an official from district administration who was managing the vaccination site, said.Vaccinations here did not require prior booking and were free of cost. Second doses of Covaxin were given at the centre. As per the Cowin dashboard, 192 people were vaccinated at the centre on Monday and a total of 742 people have been vaccinated here since May 22.People who arrived at the centre alleged that some were allowed to walk-in and get their second dose.Shikha Dwivedi, a resident of Delhi’s Mayur Vihar, said she was waiting for her turn since 9.30am. “We waited in the car for six hours to get the shot. But others who came in as late as 2pm simply walked into the centre and got it. There is no one to check whether people are going in by turn or not,” she said.“When people saw that walk-in vaccinations were also taking place, those who were behind us in their vehicles in the queue got down, walked up to the centre and got vaccinated. Officials should have kept a check on this,” said Pankaj Bisht, a resident of Sector 75. Delivery executives were seen delivering food to people waiting in their cars as many ordered meals online. “We came at around 9am and even then, the queue was at least one-and-a-half km long. We hadn’t anticipated this and were not carrying any food so we had to order some for us at 3pm,” said VK Saluja, a resident of Sector 45.Many people had arguments at the centre with security guards as well. “The management should tell people waiting in the queue about the number of vaccines available with them and how many are left. There are still over 50 cars in line awaiting their turn when we walked up to the centre, by which time we got to know that only 10 more doses will be given. How will we get to know this sitting inside the car,” said Vikram Negi, a Sector 119 resident who had come with his mother to get vaccinated.Officials said that tokens will be issued from Tuesday. “We will issue 200 tokens on a first-come, first-serve basis at the centre. Only those who with it will be given doses,” said Gajendra Singh, sub-divisional magistrate and nodal officer for vaccination in Gautam Budh Nagar.L-1 health centre for Covid patients in Sector 100 The Noida Lok Manch, an NGO, is starting a 10-bed L-1 healthcare facility at the Late Tekram Memorial Health Centre in Sector 100 for Covid-19 patients.“The centre is primarily for the underprivileged section of the society who can’t afford to get treated for Covid at hospitals. The centre will have facilities such as oxygen cylinders, concentrators, 24/7 lab testing and expert medical care,” said Mahesh Saxena, general secretary, Noida Lok Manch.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-long-queue-for-drive-through-vaccination-at-gip-mall-101621881667641.html
25-05-2021||Chandigarh||FIR against Khanna hospital for overcharging Covid patient||Taking stringent action against fleecing of Covid-19 patients, police have lodged an FIR against Jain Multispeciaty Hospital, Khanna.The hospital was found charging 259% more than the rates fixed by the state government from the family of a Covid patient, who eventually succumbed to the virus.A case under Sections 188, 269 and 270 of the Indian Penal Code; Sections 51 (B) and 58 of the Disaster Management Act; and Section 3 of Epidemic Diseases Act has been registered against the hospital management following a complaint by Sagar Verma, a resident of Yamunanagar, Haryana.In his complaint to the Ludhiana deputy commissioner, Verma alleged that the hospital handed them a bill of ₹8.45 lakh for the treatment of his father, Ashwani Verma, 50, who eventually died. The family managed to pay ₹4.08 lakh, but the hospital demanded full payment.After the deputy commissioner ordered a probe by a committee, it was found that as per government rates fixed for Covid treatment, the actual bill should have been ₹2.35 lakh. On its part, the hospital claimed the huge bill as a “clerical mistake” and the total was actually ₹4.86 lakh, still 106% higher than the government’s guidelines.The inquiry report also established that due to the malpractice of overbilling by the hospital, the complainant shifted his father to another health institution, where he succumbed later.Deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma said complaints against malpractice by hospitals can be filed on health department’s 104 helpline or to his office. He added that in this hour of distress, the administration will not spare anyone breaching the capped charges for Covid treatment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/fir-against-khanna-hospital-for-overcharging-covid-patient-101621881068235.html
25-05-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad doctors claim ‘yellow fungus’ infection in a post-Covid patient||Doctors at a Ghaziabad private hospital on Monday claimed that one of their patients, a 45-year-old man who had recovered from Covid-19, is diagnosed with mucour scepticus disease, or so-called “yellow fungus”.But the district health department said that they awaited the patient’s histopathological (tissue test) report for confirmation.The patient arrived at the Harsh ENT Hospital at Raj Nagar District Centre (RDC) on Sunday with post-Covid complications.“It is called as yellow fungus as the affected area is yellow in colour and has pus formation below it. It is generally found in reptiles. It was detected through endoscopic examination of the patient’s nose,” Dr BP Tyagi, senior ENT surgeon at the hospital.News agency ANI reported that yellow fungus is a fatal disease because it starts internally and therefore it is important to note its symptoms. Dr Randeep Guleria, the director of Delhi’s All India of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), said during a Covid-related press briefing in Delhi on Monday that the terms like “black, yellow and white fungus” could mislead and create confusion.“Fungal infections, like black fungus is a different family. Its culture has white coloured fungal colonies and has black dots. So, in general terms it is stated as black fungus. In general, we have mucormycosis (so-called “black fungus”) which is more prevalent nowadays. We also have infections like candida, aspergillosis, cryptococcus and histoplasma besides coccidioidomycosis,” he said.He added that most fungal infections nowadays are of mucormycosis and aspergillosis (so-called “white fungus”) with some candida infections as well.“So, it is better we use correct names and labelling the same fungus with names of different colours can create confusion,” Dr Guleria said. Ghaziabad chief medical officer Dr NK Gupta said, “We have spoken to the doctors at the hospital. We are waiting for the histopathological report, expected in a couple of days,” Dr Gupta added.So far, the hospital at RDC, Raj Nagar is treating 27 patients suffering post-Covid complication of mucormycosis and invasive aspergillosis and three of them are stated to be suffering from both.“These are basically different types of fungal infections and nowadays they are generally termed as per their appearance (colour). Yellow fungus infections mostly occur in unhygienic conditions or during humid weather conditions. It can also affect our vital organs and there is also pus formation. Most of the fungal infections occur in immuno-compromised patients or those having prolonged treatment history besides those having diabetes,” said Dr Sanjeev Kumar Jain, consultant (ENT), Columbia Asia Hospital at Ghaziabad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-doctors-claim-yellow-fungus-infection-in-a-post-covid-patient-101621879567585.html
25-05-2021||Noida||Not a single case of Covid reported in over 180 villages in GB Nagar: Survey||A recent survey by the Gautam Budh Nagar administration revealed that there had been no cases of Covid-19 in 183 of the 399 villages so far despite the second wave raging through the district.The number of tests in these rural blocks was 51,783 from April 15, and the number of RT-PCR tests were just under 6,900. During the same period, the district had conducted almost 70,000 tests. The figures pointed to the district administration’s focus on villages, something that Prime Minister Narendra Modi and UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath had stressed upon too.GB Nagar district magistrate Suhas LY said they had pursued aggressive testing at nearly 298 villages. “Till May 24, our health officials have conducted over 50,000 tests in as many as 298 villages, out of which 183 had no Covid-19 case. The positivity rate is less than 5% in the other villages,” he said.Also Read| Covid-19: Over 5 lakh vaccines administered in NoidaThe DM said that vigilance committees, formed to keep an eye out for symptoms, at all villages have been asked to ensure 100% testing. “They’ve instructed to report about people having influenza-like illness (ILI) symptoms to the district health officials,” he said.The Noida chapter of Indian medical association (IMA) has welcomed the district administration’s decision to ramp up testing in rural areas. Dr NK Gupta, its president, said that such micro-level efforts can be very effective in checking further spread of the infection.District chief medical officer Dr Deepak Ohri said that they had been focussing on rapid antigen tests, as per the Indian Council of Medical Research guidelines.On vaccinations, he said that, till Thursday, over 500,000 persons had been inoculated in the district so far. “While 408,324 of them received their first doses, the rest got their second dose. These figures indicate that despite some technical issues and lukewarm response in the initial days of vaccination drive, the inoculation in the district has been satisfactory,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/not-a-single-case-of-covid-19-reported-in-over-180-villages-in-gb-nagar-finds-survey-101621879207577.html
25-05-2021||World||UK accused of reintroducing Covid restrictions on the sly||The British government faced accusations Tuesday that it was reintroducing local lockdowns on the sly after it published new guidelines for eight areas of England that it says are hot spots for the coronavirus variant first identified in India.Lawmakers and local public health officials expressed shock that they hadn't been made aware of the changes to the guidelines to travel and social interaction that the Conservative government published online last Friday. They also said the guidelines weren't mandatory and that the mixed messaging could undermine efforts to keep a lid on the virus by creating unnecessary confusion.In last week’s updated guidance, the government recommended that people within eight localities, including Hounslow in west London, the city of Leicester and the northwest towns of Blackburn and Bolton, shouldn’t meet up indoors or travel outside their areas unless it is for an essential matter, such as going to work.Keir Starmer, the leader of the main opposition Labour Party, accused the government of behaving in an “utterly shameful” fashion by not informing people in areas affected.“Local lockdowns are the wrong approach for both public health and local economies,” he said.In response, the government says it was just putting on the record the guidance that Prime Minister Boris Johnson has presented in the past couple of weeks during the spread of the so-called Indian variant, which critics say was seeded by a too-lax border policy.“We want the whole country to move out of these restrictions together and we’re trusting people to be responsible and act with caution and common sense as they have done throughout the pandemic,” vaccines minister Nadhim Zahawi told lawmakers.He insisted that the onus was on personal responsibility and that the government is still intending to take a national approach to lifting restrictions.In a joint statement, the directors of public health in the eight areas affected said government officials confirmed there are “no local lockdowns” and that everyone is working together to boost testing, vaccinations and to support those people who have to go into quarantine.The government's strategy over the past couple of months of lockdown easing has been to lift restrictions on a national basis, though it hasn't ruled out the possibility of local measures if needed.Restrictions across England — and the rest of the U.K. — have been lifted over the past few weeks as the number of coronavirus infections has fallen sharply in the wake of a strict lockdown and the rapid rollout of vaccines. Among many changes, the most recent easing has seen pubs and restaurants reopen to customers indoors and the number of people allowed to meet up outdoors increased to 30.The next easing is planned for June 21 and is intended to involve the lifting of all social restrictions. However, Johnson has warned that it could be pushed back if the new variant spreads widely. A decision on that date is set to be announced on June 14.Though new cases in the U.K. remain low at around 2,500 a day, against nearly 70,000 at one point in January during the peak of the second wave, they have been inching up slightly in recent weeks.That's raised concerns that the so-called Indian variant, which is thought to be more transmissible, is taking off at a time when restrictions have been eased and many younger people have yet to receive a dose of vaccine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-accused-of-reintroducing-covid-restrictions-on-the-sly-101621959925475.html
25-05-2021||World||Gunshots heard near George Floyd square on anniversary of death||The Minneapolis intersection where George Floyd died was disrupted by gunfire Tuesday, just hours before it was to be the site of a family-friendly street festival marking the anniversary of his death at the hands of police.Associated Press video from the scene showed people running and seeking cover as shots rang out. A police spokesman didn't immediately respond to a message seeking comment.Journalist Philip Crowther, who was shooting live video from 38th and Chicago, reported hearing as many as 30 gunshots about a block east of the intersection. Crowther said a storefront window appeared to have been broken by a gunshot.“Very quickly things got back to normal,” Crowther said. “People here who spend a significant amount of time, the organizers, were running around asking, ‘Does anyone need a medic?’ It seems like there are no injuries."Police said they responded to reports of gunfire at about 10:10 a.m. at the 3800 block of Elliot Ave. South. Callers told police that a vehicle was seen speeding away from the area.Soon after, someone went to Abbott Northwestern Hospital with a gunshot wound. The victim was taken to Hennepin County Medical Center and it’s believed the injury is not life-threatening. It wasn't immediately clear if that person was injured in the shooting near George Floyd Square.The intersection has been barricaded since soon after George Floyd's death and quickly turned into a memorial — and also a challenging spot for the city, with police officers not always welcome.Informally dubbed George Floyd Square, it was being transformed Tuesday into an outdoor festival on the anniversary of his death, with food, children's activities and a long list of musical performers.“We're going to be turning mourning into dancing,” rapper Nur-D tweeted. “We're going to be celebrating 365 days of strength in the face of injustice.”Also Read | ‘Your legacy will last forever': Leaders, celebs mark George Floyd’s death anniversaryFloyd, 46, who was Black, died on Memorial Day 2020 after then-Officer Derek Chauvin knelt on his neck, pinning him to the ground for about 9 1/2 minutes. Chauvin, who is white, was convicted last month of murder and faces sentencing June 25. Three other fired officers still face trial.The “Rise and Remember George Floyd” celebration, including a candlelight vigil at 8 p.m., caps several days of marches, rallies and panel discussions about his death and where America is in confronting racial discrimination.Many members of the Floyd family are scheduled to be in Washington, D.C., on Tuesday, in a private meeting with President Joe Biden, who called family members after the Chauvin verdict and pledged to continue fighting for racial justice.Floyd family attorney Ben Crump said he hoped Biden will renew his support for policing reform named for George Floyd that would ban chokeholds and no-knock police raids and create a national registry for officers disciplined for serious misconduct.“Now is time to act,” Crump said Tuesday on CNN. “Not just talk but act.”Floyd’s brother Philonise, appearing alongside Crump, said he thinks about George “all the time.”“My sister called me at 12 o’clock last night and said ’This is the day our brother left us,'” he said, adding: “I think things have changed. I think it is moving slowly but we are making progress.”Nur-D, whose real name is Matt Allen, took to the Minneapolis streets in the days after Floyd's death, often providing medical assistance to protesters who were shot or gassed in confrontations with police. He eventually founded an organization, Justice Frontline Aid, to support safe protest.He described the past year as “like we've lived 20 years inside of one" and hoped that people would feel “honesty and a real sense of togetherness” during Tuesday's celebration at what's informally known as George Floyd Square.“If you're angry, you can be angry. If you're sad, you can be sad,” Nur-D said in a follow-up interview. “If you're feeling some sense of joy over the verdict and some sort of like step in the right direction, and you want to celebrate that, do that as well.”The event was organized by the George Floyd Global Memorial. Angela Harrelson, an aunt of Floyd's and a member of the board of directors, said the organization has stockpiled 3,000 items surrounding Floyd's death — things like artwork left behind in the square — and will display some of them in a pop-up gallery.Separately, the Floyd family announced the launch of a fund that will make grants to businesses and community organizations in the neighborhood where he died, as well as broader grants “encouraging the success and growth of Black citizens and community harmony.” The money comes from $500,000 earmarked as part of the city's $27 million civil settlement for the Floyd family earlier this year.The event at George Floyd Square was due to start at 1 p.m., the same time Gov. Tim Walz asked Minnesotans to pause for a moment of silence to honor Floyd. Walz asked that the moment last for 9 minutes, 29 seconds – the length of time that prosecutors say Chauvin had his knee on Floyd’s neck.Walz’s proclamation says Chauvin’s guilty verdict was a step in the right direction, “but our work to dismantle systemic racism and discrimination has not ended. True justice for George Floyd will come only through real, systemic change to prevent acts like this from happening again — when every member of every community, no matter their race, is safe, valued, and protected.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/gunshots-heard-near-george-floyd-square-on-anniversary-of-death-101621959909516.html
25-05-2021||World||Indian-origin British MP takes time off work for mental health reasons||An Indian-origin Member of Parliament, who is also Britain’s youngest MP in the House of Commons, on Tuesday announced on social media that she will be taking "several weeks" off her parliamentary work for mental health reasons.Nadia Whittome, born in the UK to a Punjabi father and representing her birthplace of Nottingham in central England for the Opposition Labour Party since her win in the December 2019 General Election, said she was suffering from post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) and had tried to balance her full-time work with the condition but had now been advised by her doctor to take time off.The 24-year-old, traditionally referred to as the “Baby of the House” in the Commons as its youngest member, said she had decided to be open about her “mental health struggle” to help others talk about similar issues.“Over recent months, I have been battling some persistent health issues. Until now, I have been attempting to manage them alongside continuing with my full time work as an MP," Whittome said, in a statement posted on Twitter.Unfortunately, it has become clear that this is not feasible and I have been advised by my doctor that I need to take several weeks off in order for my health to improve," she said.The MP added that she feels it is important for her to be honest that it is mental ill-health she is suffering from – specifically post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD).“One in four people will experience mental health problems each year, but there is still a great deal of shame and stigma surrounding it. Through being open about my own mental health struggle, I hope that others will also feel able to talk about theirs, and that I can play a small role in creating greater acceptance and facilitating healthier discussions around this issue," she said.On the advice of my doctor, I'm going to be taking some time away from work for health reasons.Constituents should continue to contact my office as normal - my staff will be there to assist you.My full statement is below. pic.twitter.com/0CMDxc8OYlShe thanked the Labour Party leader, Sir Keir Starmer, and his political secretary Jenny Chapman for their "kindness" as she asked her constituents to continue reaching out to her "fantastic" staff as normal, who would support their needs until she returns to the job she loves.Starmer wished her well, adding: "I respect Nadia's bravery in speaking openly about her mental health and I look forward to welcoming her back to Parliament."At the peak of the first wave of the coronavirus pandemic in March 2020, Whittome had returned to her previous role of a care-worker on a part-time basis and said she would donate the salary from her role at the ExtraCare retirement home to a local Covid-19 support fund.Following her election in 2019, she had promised to donate a large part of her MP salary to her local community, stating at the time that she hoped it "sparks a conversation about earnings".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/indianorigin-british-mp-takes-time-off-work-for-mental-health-reasons-101621950388488.html
25-05-2021||World||‘Your legacy will last forever': Leaders, celebs mark George Floyd’s death anniversary||People around the world on Tuesday marked the first death anniversary of George Floyd, a Black man who was murdered by a white police officer in Minneapolis, US. Floyd, 46, died after Derek Chauvin knelt on his neck for about nine and a half minutes. Chauvin was convicted last month of murder and faces sentencing on June 25.While police brutality against people of colour, especially those from the Black community, has been a growing matter of concern in the United States, George Floyd’s death became a watershed moment in American history with a rejuvenated Black Lives Matter movement. The video of Floyd’s murder sparked outrage across the world which only intensified as more details about the incident emerged.A transcript of the minutes leading to George Floyd’s death showed he uttered “I can’t breathe” more than 20 times and was told by Chauvin to stop “yelling”. Black Lives Matter protests, which at times turned violent, received unprecedented support from politicians, celebrities, as well as business leaders who highlighted the disproportionate risk that Black people face in the law enforcement and justice system.Observing the death anniversary of George Floyd, US state secretary Antony Blinken said that the nation must face the reality of racism at home in order to be a credible force for human rights around the world. Taking to Twitter, Blinken said, “By addressing our shortcomings openly and honestly, we live up to the values that we stand for worldwide.”Also Read | Biden hosts George Floyd family on anniversary of shocking murderFormer US president Barack Obama said that hundreds more Americans have died in encounters with police since the murder of George Floyd but the year has also given “reasons to hope.” In a series of tweets, the first and only Black president in American history asserted that “more people in more places are seeing the world more clearly than they did a year ago.”“When injustice runs deep, progress takes time. But if we can turn words into action and action into meaningful reform, we will, in the words of James Baldwin, 'cease fleeing from reality and begin to change it,'” he added.US senator Elizabeth Warren said that she’s committed to keeping the fight to pass the ‘George Floyd Justice in Policing Act’, a civil rights and police reform bill drafted by Democrats, as a step towards cementing the "unshakeable truth that Black Lives Matter." The NBA's social justice coalition has also called on the Senate to pass the bill to honour the memory of Floyd and "others who have been victims of police brutality."“A year ago today we didn’t know his name, but now it’s forever etched in our consciousness: #GeorgeFloyd,” tweeted iconic talk show host Oprah Winfrey.Formula One champion Sir Lewis Hamilton said that George Floyd wasn't supposed to die that day and the “impact of his life and its unfair ending remains with us.” “What does justice mean for a daughter who lost her dad? For a woman who lost her partner? For a man who lost his brother? What does justice mean when a man's life is stolen because of nothing more than the colour of his skin?” the British racing driver asked rhetorically. "Rest in peace, George Floyd. Your time here was cut far too short. Your legacy will last forever," he added.pic.twitter.com/KhxV2emIcxHere are some of the reactions marking George Floyd’s death anniversary:﻿It’s been a year since those horrifying 8 minutes and 46 seconds stole George Floyd’s life. Today, I am thinking of this clip of his daughter Gianna, and all the young people out there who have seen so much, but refuse to give up hope. pic.twitter.com/VclaQksysoToday, we honor George Floyd’s life and mourn with his family. One year after his murder, we remain dedicated to rooting out systemic racism and police violence against people of color, and building a nation free of oppression that respects the human dignity of every person.Today marks a year since George Floyd was murdered. My heart is with his family — and all Black and Brown families who have had a loved one taken from them by the police.George Floyd's life mattered. Let's honor it with action — organizing to end police brutality. pic.twitter.com/MrMXDiJN2rTo John Lewis, the effects of the protests following George Floyd’s murder were clear.“People will never, ever forget what happened and how it happened,” he said. ”And it is my hope that we are on our way to greater change."That’s my hope too. Don’t stop pushing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/your-legacy-will-last-forever-leaders-celebs-mark-george-floyd-s-death-anniversary-101621954100530.html
25-05-2021||World||'You have bomb onboard': Belarus suggested diverted Ryanair flight to land in Minsk||Belarus air traffic control told a Vilnius-bound Ryanair flight there was a bomb on board and suggested it divert to Minsk, according to a transcript released by the transport ministry Tuesday.The forced grounding of the European passenger flight Sunday sparked a global outcry with EU-based carriers cutting air links with Belarus and European leaders warning of fresh sanctions.The aviation department of the Belarus transport ministry released a transcript of what it says was the conversation between Minsk airport and the Ryanair pilot."We have information from special services that you have bomb on board and it can be activated over Vilnius," Minsk air traffic control said, recommending that the aircraft make a landing.The pilot then questioned the origin of the bomb threat, to which Minsk said airport security had received it via email.Belarus several times suggested that the plane land in Minsk saying it was "our recommendation".On Monday however Belarus authorities said that the decision to land in Minsk was made independently by the pilot and that he had the option of going to either Poland or Ukraine.They also said the bomb threat supposedly came from the Palestinian Islamist group Hamas in an email addressed to Minsk airport. They reiterated this claim in Tuesday's statement.The transport ministry also said Tuesday that representatives of international agencies were invited for "further consideration of the circumstances" of the incident.The invited organisations are the International Civil Aviation Organization, the International Air Transport Association, the European Union Aviation Safety Agency and the EU and US Civil Aviation Authorities.The Ryanair aircraft travelling from Athens to Vilnius had an opposition activist on board who was arrested in Minsk airport after all passengers disembarked for a security check.Roman Protasevich, 26, fled Belarus in 2019 to the EU from where he co-ran the Nexta Telegram channels, a key Belarus opposition media that helped mobilise protesters.Belarusian state TV late on Monday broadcast a short video of Protasevich confirming that he was in prison in Minsk and "confessing" to charges of organising mass unrest.His allies however say the video was made under pressure from authorities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/you-have-bomb-onboard-belarus-suggested-diverted-ryanair-flight-to-land-in-minsk-101621949017650.html
25-05-2021||World||US-Russia to work towards strategic stability, China is the elephant in the room||In a path breaking development, United States' National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan and the Secretary of the Russian Security Council Nikolay Patrushev on Tuesday held consultations on United States-Russia relations in the run-up to summit between President Joe Biden and President Vladimir Putin in Geneva next month.The two NSA talked about strategic stability between the two former adversaries with the fall-out of China being brought into the arms control and cyber control regimes. In simple terms it enciompasses nuclear weapons, missiles, anti-satellite weapons, and anti missile defence.The joint statement issued after the meeting makes it clear that both the countries want to work towards normalizing ties and keeping in touch with each other on critical global issues.This normalisation of ties suits India as it is a close ally of both US and Russia with Patrushev being a key interlocutor with Indian NSA Ajit Doval. According to the statement, the US-Russia NSA meeting was a logical continuation of the recent discussions held in Reykjavik between Secretary of State Blinken and Russia's foreign minister Sergey Lavrov."At the meeting, both sides agreed that a normalisation of the US-Russian relations would be in the interest of both countries and contribute to global predictability and stability" the statement said. Patrushev is a close and trusted aide of President Putin, just as Sullivan is the NSA to President Biden.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-russia-to-work-towards-strategic-stability-china-is-the-elephant-in-the-room-101621948355739.html
25-05-2021||World||US demands new ‘transparent’ probe into Covid origin as Fauci ‘not convinced’||The United States on Tuesday called for a “transparent” second phase of investigation into the origins of novel coronavirus SARS-CoV-2 and the route of introduction to the human population. In a video message to the 74th World Health Assembly (WHA), US health secretary Xavier Becerra advocated that international experts should be given independence to fully assess the source of the virus, which has claimed more than 3.4 million lives so far.An international team of experts visited Wuhan in January to probe the origins of the virus and identified two most likely scenarios that caused SARS-CoV-2 transmission to the human population, including the one involving intermediary host species. The hypothesis of introduction through a laboratory incident had gained a lot of traction in the early days of the outbreak but the global study, convened by the World Health Organization (WHO), deemed it “extremely unlikely.”"Phase 2 of the Covid origins study must be launched with terms of reference that are transparent, science-based, and give international experts the independence to fully assess the source of the virus and the early days of the outbreak," Becerra told the annual ministerial meeting of the WHO.Also Read | We need Taiwan as observer at WHA and Covid investigation, says USWhile Becerra didn’t mention China directly, his call for a transparent and independent investigation came days after top US infectious disease expert Dr Anthony Fauci raised doubt over the preliminary findings. At a virtual event hosted by Poynter Institute on May 11, Fauci was asked whether he was convinced with the theory that the virus “developed naturally.”"I am not convinced...I think we should continue to investigate what went on in China until we find out to the best of our ability exactly what happened," said Fauci, director, National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases."Certainly, the people who investigated it say it likely was the emergence from an animal reservoir that then infected individuals, but it could have been something else, and we need to find that out. So, you know, that’s the reason why I said I’m perfectly in favour of any investigation that looks into the origin of the virus," he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-demands-new-transparent-probe-into-covid-origin-as-fauci-not-convinced-101621947084550.html
25-05-2021||World||Moderna says its Covid-19 vaccine found safe, effective in kids as young as 12||Moderna's Covid-19 vaccine was shown to be effective in adolescents aged 12-17 and showed no new or major safety problems in a clinical trial, the developer said on Tuesday, potentially setting the stage for a second vaccine for school-aged children to be authorized in July.Moderna Inc, whose vaccine is authorized for adults 18 and older, said it will submit the findings of its adolescent study to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration and other regulators for emergency use authorization in early June.U.S. regulators took about a month to review a similar study from Pfizer/BioNtech, which was authorized for ages 12-15 on May 10. If Moderna gets the same treatment, its authorization would come in early July.Most children with Covid-19 develop only mild symptoms or no symptoms. Yet children remain at risk of becoming seriously ill, and they can spread the virus. Widely vaccinating 12- to 18-year olds could allow U.S. schools and summer camps to relax masking and social distancing measures suggested by the CDC.“We are encouraged that mRNA-1273 was highly effective at preventing COVID-19 in adolescents," Stéphane Bancel, Moderna's chief executive, said in a statement.Also Read | Moderna, Pfizer said they’ll deal only with Centre, not states: Delhi govtModerna's trial evaluated the vaccine in 3,732 adolescents aged 12 to 17, two thirds of whom got the vaccine and one third of whom got a placebo. The main goal was to produce an immune response on par with that seen in the company's large, Phase 3 trial in adults, which was 94.1% effective at preventing Covid-19.Two weeks after the second dose, researchers found no cases of Covid-19 in the vaccine group compared to 4 cases in the placebo group, resulting in a vaccine efficacy of 100%, based on case definitions from the company's adult trial.Using a case definition from the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, which requires only 1 Covid-19 symptom, the vaccine was found to be 93% effective, suggesting the vaccine may be protective against cases with milder symptoms, the company said.The researchers found no new safety issues. The most common side effects after the second dose were headache, fatigue, body aches and chills.The company said it is still accumulating safety data. All study participants will be monitored for 12 months after their second dose to determine long-term protection and safety.Moderna said it plans to submit the data to a peer-reviewed publication. The company is currently testing its vaccine in children as young as 6 months of age.In addition to the United States, Pfizer's vaccine is also authorized for use in younger teens aged 12 to 15 in Canada and Algeria.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/moderna-says-its-covid-19-vaccine-found-safe-effective-in-kids-as-young-as-12-101621944733361.html
25-05-2021||World||Blinken pledges US aid to build Gaza without helping Hamas||U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken vowed Tuesday to “rally international support” to aid Gaza following a devastating war there while keeping any assistance out of the hands of its militant Hamas rulers, as he began a regional tour to shore up last week’s cease-fire.The 11-day war between Israel and Hamas killed more than 250 people, mostly Palestinians, and caused widespread destruction in the impoverished coastal territory. The truce that came into effect Friday has so far held, but it did not address any of the underlying issues in the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, something Blinken acknowledged after meeting with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu.“We know that to prevent a return to violence, we have to use the space created to address a larger set of underlying issues and challenges. And that begins with tackling the grave humanitarian situation in Gaza and starting to rebuild,” he said.“The United States will work to rally international support around that effort while also making our own significant contributions.” He added that the U.S. would work with its partners “to ensure that Hamas does not benefit from the reconstruction assistance."Blinken will not be meeting with Hamas, which does not recognize Israel’s right to exist and which Israel and the U.S. consider a terrorist organization.Blinken addressed the larger conflict, saying "we believe that Palestinians and Israelis equally deserve to live safely and securely, to enjoy equal measures of freedom, opportunity and democracy, to be treated with dignity.”But the top U.S. diplomat faces the same obstacles that have stifled a wider peace process for more than a decade, including a hawkish Israeli leadership, Palestinian divisions and deeply rooted tensions surrounding Jerusalem and its holy sites. The Biden administration had initially hoped to avoid being drawn into the intractable conflict and focus on other foreign policy priorities before the violence broke out.Netanyahu, meanwhile, is fighting for his political life after a fourth inconclusive election in two years. He faces mounting criticism from Israelis who say he ended the offensive prematurely, without forcibly halting rocket attacks or dealing a heavier blow to Hamas.Netanyahu hardly mentioned the Palestinians in his remarks, in which he warned of a “very powerful" response if Hamas breaks the cease-fire.Netanyahu spoke of “building economic growth” in the occupied West Bank, but said there will be no peace until the Palestinians recognize Israel as a “Jewish state.” The Palestinians have long objected to that language, saying it undermines the rights of Israel’s own Palestinian minority.The war was triggered by weeks of clashes in Jerusalem between Israeli police and Palestinian protesters in and around the Al-Aqsa Mosque compound, a site revered by Jews and Muslims that has seen several outbreaks of Israeli-Palestinian violence over the years. The protests were directed at Israel’s policing of the area during the Muslim holy month of Ramadan and the threatened eviction of dozens of Palestinian families by Jewish settlers.The truce remains tenuous since tensions are still high in Jerusalem and the fate of the Palestinian families is not yet resolved.The evictions were put on hold just before the Gaza fighting erupted, but the legal process is set to resume in the coming weeks. Police briefly clashed with protesters at Al-Aqsa on Friday, hours after the cease-fire came into effect.Adding to the tensions, an Israeli soldier and a civilian were stabbed and wounded in east Jerusalem on Monday before police shot and killed the assailant in what they described as a terrorist attack.Then, early Tuesday, a Palestinian man was shot and killed by undercover Israeli forces near the West Bank city of Ramallah, according to the Wafa news agency. Pictures circulating online appeared to show the man bloodied and lying in the street. The Israeli army referred questions to the Border Police, which did not respond to requests for comment.Blinken will head to Ramallah later Tuesday to meet with Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas, who has no power in Gaza and was sidelined by recent events. Abbas heads the internationally backed Palestinian Authority, which administers parts of the occupied West Bank but whose forces were driven from Gaza when Hamas seized power there in 2007.Abbas, who called off the first Palestinian elections in 15 years last month when it appeared his fractured Fatah movement would suffer an embarrassing defeat, is seen by many Palestinians as having lost all legitimacy. A crowd of worshippers at Al-Aqsa chanted against the Palestinian Authority and in support of Hamas on Friday.But Abbas is still seen internationally as the representative of the Palestinian people and a key partner in the long-defunct peace process. The Palestine Liberation Organization, the umbrella group led by Abbas, recognized Israel decades ago, and the Palestinian Authority maintains close security ties with Israel.Blinken will also visit neighboring Egypt and Jordan, which have acted as mediators in the conflict. Egypt succeeded in brokering the Gaza truce after the Biden administration pressed Israel to wind down its offensive.The administration had been roundly criticized for its perceived hands-off initial response to the deadly violence, including from Democratic allies in Congress who demanded it take a tougher line on Israel. Biden repeatedly affirmed what he said was Israel’s right to defend itself from rocket attacks from Gaza.The administration has defended its response by saying it engaged in intense, but quiet, high-level diplomacy to support a cease-fire.Blinken has said the time is not right for an immediate resumption in Israeli-Palestinian negotiations, but that steps could be taken to repair the damage from Israeli airstrikes, which destroyed hundreds of homes and damaged infrastructure in Gaza.The narrow coastal territory, home to more than 2 million Palestinians, has been under a crippling Israeli-Egyptian blockade since Hamas seized power. Israel says the blockade is needed to keep Hamas from importing arms, while the Palestinians and human rights groups view it as a form of collective punishment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/blinken-pledges-us-aid-to-build-gaza-without-helping-hamas-101621942348907.html
25-05-2021||World||UK Conservatives seen as insensitive to Muslims: Report||Prime Minister Boris Johnson helped create an impression that his Conservative Party is “insensitive” to Muslims with a newspaper column comparing veil-wearing women to “letter boxes,” a report into prejudice in Britain’s governing party said Tuesday.The inquiry, set up by the party in 2019 to investigate all forms of discrimination, said “anti-Muslim sentiment remains a problem” within the Conservative Party at local and individual levels. But it didn't conclude that the party was institutionally racist or failed to take complaints seriously.“While the party leadership claims a ‘zero tolerance approach’ to all forms of discrimination, our findings show that discriminatory behaviors occur, especially in relation to people of Islamic faith,” said the committee, led by Srawan Singh, an academic and former member of Britain’s equalities commission.But it said it didn't find evidence of a party which “systematically discriminated against any particular group.”Johnson has a long history of making provocative and offensive comments in a career that has combined politics and journalism. He has called Papua New Guineans cannibals, claimed that “part-Kenyan” Barack Obama had an ancestral dislike of Britain and, in a 2018 newspaper column, compared Muslim women who wear face-covering veils to “letter boxes” and “bank robbers.”The committee cleared Johnson of breaking the party’s code of conduct, but said Conservative leaders “ought to set a good example for appropriate behaviors and language.”Johnson has previously apologized for any offense given by his language, but not for writing the words. He has dismissed such comments as jokes or plain-speaking, or accused journalists of distorting his words.He told the commission that he wouldn't use “some of the offending language from my past writings” now that he is prime minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-conservatives-seen-as-insensitive-to-muslims-report-101621940457176.html
25-05-2021||World||Prince William, Kate cook meals for vulnerable; Sikh women’s group guide couple||Britain’s Prince William and his wife, Kate Middleton, joined a Sikh women’s group on Monday to prepare meals for vulnerable families in Edinburgh, UK. The official Twitter handle for The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge posted pictures of the royal couple trying their hands at making chapatis in the café kitchen at the Palace of Holyroodhouse, Queen’s official residence in Scotland.In a video shared on YouTube by The Royal Family Channel, Prince William, second-in-line to the throne, and Kate are seen taking instructions from members of Sikh Sanjog, a charity group based in Scotland, on how to make chapatis. The royal couple also spent time with children who are seen using colouring books.“Cooking up a storm in the cafe kitchen at the Palace of Holyroodhouse with Sikh Sanjog, where the Duke and Duchess prepared meals to be distributed to vulnerable families across the Edinburgh community,” the tweet read.Cooking up a storm in the café kitchen at the Palace of Holyroodhouse with Sikh Sanjog, where The Duke and Duchess prepared meals to be distributed to vulnerable families across the Edinburgh community 🍛 pic.twitter.com/pFkoor8yQqAlso Read | Princes William, Harry hit out at BBC for ‘deceit’ in obtaining Diana interviewSikh Sanjog had set up a service to provide hot curry meals to disadvantaged people in the community during the lockdown. The group is still providing the service as the United Kingdom is in the final phase of the four-step roadmap out of lockdown. Sikh Sanjog thanked the duo on Twitter for joining them in the kitchen, adding that the children and staff enjoyed their company.“We hope you gained a good understanding of why our services for women and young people are so vital, especially in challenging times,” the group said.The British royal family has been facing criticism for alleged racism following an explosive interview of the Duke and Duchess of Sussex with the iconic talk show host Oprah Winfrey. Meghan Markle claimed that the royal family, which she referred to as “The Firm”, refused to make her son a prince partly due to conversations about how dark his skin might be.While Meghan Markle refused to name the person because it would be “damaging” to them, Harry later clarified that Queen Elizabeth II and Prince Philip, who died in April, were never part of those conversations. Prince William refuted the claims saying they are “very much not a racist family."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/prince-william-kate-cook-meals-for-vulnerable-sikh-women-s-group-guide-couple-101621939066552.html
25-05-2021||World||China denounces people's tribunal in Britain on alleged Xinjiang abuses||China on Tuesday denounced plans for a people’s tribunal in Britain on allegations of genocide against Uyghurs and other Turkic Muslim people in China's Xinjiang region.The spokesman for the northwestern region’s government, Xu Guixiang, said China “condemned and despised” the hearings, which are expected to draw dozens of witnesses when they begin in early June.The tribunal, which does not have government backing, is to be chaired by prominent lawyer Geoffrey Nice, who led the prosecution of ex-Serbian President Slobodan Milosevic and worked with the International Criminal Court.“This is a total violation of international law and order, a serious desecration of the victims of real genocide, and a serious provocation to the 25 million people of all ethnic groups in Xinjiang,” Xu told reporters at the latest in a series of briefings in Beijing intended to counter growing criticism of China's policies in Xinjiang.The region has become a major foreign policy headache for China, which is accused of locking up more than a million Uyghurs, Kazakhs and members of other minority groups in re-education camps where they are forced to denounce their traditional culture and swear fealty to China’s ruling Communist Party and its leader, Xi Jinping.Women from the region have also testified that they have been forced to undergo contraceptive measures, children have allegedly been taken from their incarcerated parents and claims of forced labor have prompted multinational companies to cut ties with Xinjiang's key cotton industry.China says it has merely been providing job training and counseling to de-radicalize those influenced by jihadist propaganda following years of violent outbursts against Chinese rule in the region.While the tribunal’s judgment is not binding on any government, organizers hope the process of publicly laying out evidence will compel international action to tackle the alleged abuses in Xinjiang.Former US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo declared before he left office that China’s policies against Xinjiang’s Muslims and ethnic minorities constituted crimes against humanity and genocide. His successor, Antony Blinken, reiterated the statement on his first day in office.The Associated Press reported last year that the Chinese government was systematically forcing sterilization and abortion on Uighur and other Muslim women, and sent many to camps simply for having too many children.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-denounces-people-s-tribunal-in-britain-on-alleged-xinjiang-abuses-101621934677886.html
25-05-2021||World||Japan to impose 10-day quarantine on travelers to India, 5 South Asian countries||Japan on Tuesday said it has extended the quarantine period for travelers who have recently been to India and five other South Asian countries amid growing concerns over B.1.617 Covid-19 variant.The Japanese government said that those people who recently traveled to India, Bangladesh, the Maldives, Nepal, Pakistan and Sri Lanka, have to complete 10 days of mandatory quarantine period instead of six days.The government will newly impose a three-day quarantine period on travelers who have been to Kazakhstan and Tunisia, with a coronavirus test on the final day, Kyodo News reported.The move is set to take effect on Friday.As Japan has already banned the entry of foreign nationals, including those with resident status, who have been to the six countries within the past two weeks, except under special circumstances, the measure primarily effects Japanese citizens."There is a strong feeling of unease among the Japanese people regarding coronavirus variants, so we have decided to further tighten border controls in order to protect their health and lives," Chief Cabinet Secretary Katsunobu Kato told a press conference according to Kyodo news agency.The country has registered 718,864 confirmed cases and 12,312 deaths till yesterday (Monday). As of May 15, a total of 5,593,436 vaccine doses have been administered in the country, according to the World Health Organisation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/japan-to-impose-10-day-quarantine-on-travelers-to-india-5-south-asian-countries-101621934395835.html
25-05-2021||World||Indian-origin family in US returns $1 million discarded lottery ticket to winner||A woman in the US state of Massachusetts threw away her shot at USD 1 million, but as luck would it, she got a second chance at the fortune, thanks to an Indian-origin family who returned the discarded lottery ticket to their long-time customer, earning appreciation for their honesty.Lea Rose Fiega bought a Diamond Millions scratch-off ticket in March at Lucky Stop, a store owned by the Indian-origin family in Southwick, where she was a regular customer."I was in a hurry, on lunch break, and just scratched it real quick, and looked at it, and it didn’t look like a winner, so I handed it over to them to throw away,” Fiega said on Monday.But the ticket was not fully scratched off and it sat in a pile in the store for 10 days until Abhi Shah, son of the store owners, noticed the unfinished USD 30 ticket in the trash, the New York Post reported.Abhi said the winning ticket was sold by his mother Aruna Shah to one of their regular customers.“One evening, I was going through the tickets from the trash and [noticed] that she didn’t scratch the number. I scratched the number and it was USD 1 million underneath the ticket,” Abhi was quoted as saying by the local TV station WWLP.“I was a millionaire for a night,” he joked.Abhi said he initially thought of buying a Tesla car, but later decided to return the winning ticket.“I mean I had USD 1 million in my hand and on the other hand I wanted to do something good,” he said.The family said it was not an easy decision to return the ticket.“We didn’t sleep two nights,” said Maunish Shah, owner of Lucky Spot.“He called my mom, grandparents in India, they said, ‘Give it back, we don’t want that money,’” Maunish said.The family then decided to return the ticket. Since the customer visited the store often, they knew where to find her.The younger Shah came to find Fiega at work and told her his parents wanted to see her, according to the lottery winner.“I said ‘I’m working,’ and he said ‘no you have to come over’. So, I went over there and that’s when they told me. I was in total disbelief. I cried, I hugged them,” Fiega said.The other customers of the store are not surprised that the Shahs did the right thing.“They’re just purely good people. You can tell by just talking to them,” one customer was quoted as saying by WBZ TV, a CBS-owned-and-operated television station licensed to Boston, Massachusetts.The family is now fielding congratulatory calls and interview requests from across the country.“If I had kept that million, I wouldn’t have been this famous. So, I’m glad I gave it back,” Abhi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/indianorigin-family-in-us-returns-1-million-discarded-lottery-ticket-to-winner-101621933362382.html
25-05-2021||World||Iranian media say 3 heavyweights barred from June presidential polls||Three of the best-known candidates in Iran's June presidential elections, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, Ali Larijani and Eshaq Jahangiri, have been barred from running, Iranian media said Tuesday.First reported by ultraconservative Fars news agency, the trio's disqualification by the conservative-dominated Guardian Council came days before campaigning starts for the June 18 poll to succeed President Hassan Rouhani.Iranian media had widely predicted a showdown between conservative former parliament speaker Larijani, an advisor to supreme leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, and ultraconservative judiciary chief Ebrahim Raisi.But unlike Raisi, Larijani did not feature on what Fars said was an "unofficial final list" of seven candidates approved by the Guardian Council, which has veto power over election hopefuls.Reformists had pinned their hopes on Jahangiri, first vice-president to Rouhani.Firebrand ex-president Ahmadinejad had been expected to be disqualified.Approved candidates on the list reported by Fars also include ex-Revolutionary Guards chief Major General Mohsen Rezai, ultraconservative former nuclear negotiator Saeed Jalili and central bank governor Abdolnasser Hemmati.The other three on the list were the reformist ex-vice president Mohsen Mehralizadeh, and ultraconservative MPs Alireza Zakani and Amirhossein Ghazizadeh-Hashemi.The Guardian Council's spokesman Abbas Ali Kadkhodaee also said that "only seven of the presidential candidates have been qualified by the council", according to the council's website.He had earlier told ISNA news agency that the final list "must be announced by the interior ministry".That is expected to happen on Wednesday or Thursday.Barred candidates have until midnight Tuesday night to appeal. Those approved are allowed to start campaigning from May 28.Under the Islamic republic's constitution, Rouhani is barred from running for a third consecutive term.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/iranian-media-say-3-heavyweights-barred-from-june-presidential-polls-101621933901798.html
25-05-2021||World||US senator helps unite Indian family separated by Covid-19 travel ban||An Indian family separated due to the recent travel restrictions in view of the Covid-19 cases in India was united over the weekend because of the personal efforts made by a top Democratic Senator Robert Menendez.Software solutions architect Ashu Mahajan, who is on H-1B visa, travelled to India on April 17 to see his ailing father just days before his death on April 21 from Covid-19. But before he could return home to New Jersey, new pandemic restrictions went into effect forcing the closures of American embassies and consulates located in India.As a highly-skilled immigrant worker with an H1-B visa, Mahajan is required to have his passport reviewed and stamped at an American embassy or consulate before travelling to the US, but that the earliest he was told he could get an appointment was in February 2022.The H-1B visa is a non-immigrant visa that allows US companies to employ foreign workers in speciality occupations that require theoretical or technical expertise.“Having the family separated for so long would not only be a tremendous hardship—it would jeopardize the very job that makes Mahajan’s H1-B status and his family’s life here in America possible,” Menendez, who is Chairman of the powerful Senate Foreign Relations Committee, told reporters at Scotch Plains in New Jersey.“I’m incredibly proud of my staff in New Jersey and in Washington with the Senate Foreign Relations Committee for working together to bring Mr. Mahajan home. They reached out to the State Department. They made clear all that was at stake in this case, and they successfully secured an expedited appointment at our embassy in New Delhi so that he could get that passport stamp and board a plane back to America,” Menendez said.Menendez was joined by Mahajan along with his wife Neha and two daughters, 15-year-old Sanaa and nine-year-old Aishi, at the press conference near their Scotch Plains home to announce his safe return.“When I was leaving for India, I knew my dad was sick. I was still debating whether I should go or not. If I go, I knew I would have visa issues, but still, I took that decision because it was related my dad,” said Mahajan.“While he was in the hospital, I was not even thinking about visa issues. After that, it hit me that I would be separated from my family for more than a year. At that time, I told Senator Menendez I became so pessimistic about everything, whether this is going to happen or not. But thanks to Senator Menendez and his team they have been reassuring us all this while and showing us directions on how to go about this,” he said.“We really want to thank Senator Menendez and his staff. If it were not for his support and his office’s support, I don’t know when I would see Mahajan,” said Neha Mahajan.“When the girls would see him. Every night we spent on two different continents, my girls would ask me, ‘When is daddy coming home?’ And I really did not have an answer for them. Yesterday was probably the first night when I saw him and I was able to sleep in peace because during a pandemic we are all going through a lot. And immigration related matters are the last ones that you need to impact and keep us separated,” Neha told reporters.Hundreds of Indians on H-1B visas have been facing similar situations as a result of the travel restrictions imposed on those coming to the US from India.The Mahajan’s have been caught for nearly a decade in the immigration backlog after they legally immigrated to the US through the H1-B visa programme and applied and qualified in 2012 for green cards, Menendez’s office said.Their youngest daughter, Aisha, is an American citizen, which was a factor that the US State Department considered in expediting her father’s case.“Ironically, had the family received their green cards and permanent resident status in a timely manner, Ashu Majahan never would have faced his predicament because he would not have been required to get his passport stamped before travelling home to New Jersey,” said his office.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-senator-helps-unite-indian-family-separated-by-covid-19-travel-ban-101621933360327.html
25-05-2021||World||Covid in Thailand: Vaccine hesitancy grows ahead mass inoculation rollout||Vaccine hesitancy has risen sharply in Thailand opinion polls show, just weeks away from the start of a mass inoculation programme and as the country fights its deadliest Covid-19 outbreak.Reasons for the rise in vaccine hesitancy were unclear in the polls, but there are widespread complaints at government disorganisation, delays in getting vaccines and reliance on Sinovac and locally made AstraZeneca doses.Thailand has reported 135,439 infections and 832 deaths since the pandemic began last year.In January, 83% of Thais surveyed by polling firm YouGov were willing to be vaccinated, but by May that dropped to 63% in the same poll, lower than Vietnam and the Philippines at 83% and 66% willingness, respectively.Thai-based Suan Dusit Poll on Sunday echoed the YouGov findings of rising vaccine hesitancy, with 64% of respondents willing to be vaccinated, compared with 66% in January.Dissatisfaction with the military-backed government's vaccine strategy has been building for months."People are worried about the vaccines that the government procured. It's not that we don't want to get shots, but there is hesitancy," Facebook user Than Tongkum wrote under a government announcement encouraging vaccinations.Asked by Suan Dusit poll for their views on Thai vaccinations, only 57% of respondents believed they would help develop immunity and reduce the virus impact, while 59% worried about side-effects.With Thailand's main vaccination drive, which is due to start June 7, relying heavily on AstraZeneca, respondents had 66% confidence in the shot, fourth behind US-developed vaccines, with Pfizer top at 75%.Thailand aims to inoculate 70% of its population by year-end, a level its tourist hotspots must also reach locally before reopening to vaccinated foreign visitors.Registration is ongoing for the first 16 million people including those over 60 or with health conditions.So far, 7.8 million people have registered.Government spokesman Anucha Burapachaisri said he believes the vaccines will be embraced once the inoculation programme starts."As Thailand receives more doses, there will be more vaccine sites, which will help create awareness among the public after they see large numbers of vaccinations do not lead to serious side effects," he told Reuters.Actress Araya "Chompoo" Hargate sparked controversy after she posted to her 10.5 million followers on Instagram saying she chose Sinovac."Can't help but think this is government PR," wrote user iloveurdadmaybe.Among the concerns is perception that Sinovac has a low efficacy rate."Just hearing that it's Sinovac that's only 50% safe and 50% effective," wrote Facebook user Dang Juntawan."Injections are on chance. If you're unlucky you'll die."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-in-thailand-vaccine-hesitancy-grows-ahead-mass-inoculation-rollout-101621932894806.html
25-05-2021||World||US allows its expired passport holders to travel back to country||United States citizens whose passports had expired and were travelling overseas will now be able to return to the country until December 2021 amid the Covid-19 pandemic."US citizens currently overseas whose passports expired on or after January 1, 2020, may be able to use their expired passport for direct return travel to the United States until December 31, 2021," informed the Department of State on Monday.However, recently expired passports cannot be used to travel from the US to an international destination or to travel to a foreign country for any length of stay longer than an airport connection en route to the country or to a United States territory.The State Department continues to strongly recommend citizens reconsider travel abroad and postpone their trips if possible."We also remind US citizens who wish to return to the country that proof of a negative Covid-19 test result, taken within 72 hours of their flight's departure, is required for air travel to the United States. For those wishing to renew their passport upon their return to the United States, current processing times can be found at the official website," the statement read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-allows-its-expired-passport-holders-to-travel-back-to-country-101621926482538.html
25-05-2021||World||US warns against travel to Japan, Sri Lanka due to Covid-19 concerns||Amid rising coronavirus cases in Japan and Sri Lanka, the US State Department issued a travel advisory warning against travel to the respective countries due to Covid transmission concerns."This week, the following Travel Advisories have been assessed and reissued with updates, raised to a Level 4 - Do Not Travel: Japan, Sri Lanka," the State Department said on Monday.The US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) said in a new alert that Americans should avoid all travel to Japan and advised anyone who does have to visit the country to get vaccinated prior to traveling there."Because of the current situation in Japan even fully vaccinated travelers may be at risk for getting and spreading Covid-19 variants and should avoid all travel to Japan," it added.This comes few months before the Olympics are set to be held in Tokyo in July. The Olympics were already postponed once due to the pandemic.Japan has been witnessing a surge in Covid-19 cases as it reported over seven lakh coronavirus infections till Sunday ahead of the Olympic Games.According to the World Health Organisation (WHO) on Monday, the country registered 7,14,274 confirmed cases and 12,236 deaths till yesterday (Sunday). As of May 15, a total of 5,593,436 vaccine doses have been administered in the country.Meanwhile, in Sri Lanka 2,971 new Covid-19 cases were reported on Monday. Till Monday, a total of 167,172 C-19 cases have been reported in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-warns-against-travel-to-japan-sri-lanka-due-to-covid-19-concerns-101621912008571.html
25-05-2021||World||Biden hosts George Floyd family on anniversary of shocking murder||President Joe Biden marks the anniversary Tuesday of the police murder of George Floyd by hosting the African American man's family -- but without being able to celebrate hoped-for national police reform.Floyd's daughter Gianna, his mother, sister and brothers will be among those attending private talks with Biden at the White House, Press Secretary Jen Psaki said."The courage and grace of his family, and especially his daughter Gianna, has really stuck with the president," she told reporters. "He's eager to listen to their perspectives."The choking to death of Floyd in Minneapolis on May 25 last year and subsequent conviction of the officer, Derek Chauvin, who'd knelt on his neck for nearly nine minutes, were seen as seminal moments in the long US struggle for racial equality.After the killing during Floyd's arrest outside a store, protests and riots erupted across a country already crackling with tension from the election battle between Biden and then president Donald Trump.In the wake of the verdict this April against Chauvin, who faces sentencing next month, Biden sought to build on political momentum by urging Congress to pass a far-reaching police reform bill in time for the first anniversary.Americans must confront the "systemic racism" revealed by Floyd's killing "head on," he declared.However, the ambitious deadline comes with only the House having passed the bill, known as the George Floyd Justice in Policing Act, while the Senate continues to wrangle over key details.The bill seeks to reform what critics say have become ever more violent and unaccountable police forces around the country.Opponents argue that police are being unfairly blamed when they are simply trying to operate in a dangerous and often heavily armed society.However, Biden and reform proponents say that a culture of impunity and underlying racism have made incidents like Floyd's death increasingly common.- Personal impact on Biden -Among other measures, the bill would ban potentially fatal restraint techniques used on suspects, like chokeholds.It would also end so-called "no-knock warrants," when police are authorized to burst into a suspect's house unannounced -- a volatile situation that led to the accidental killing of a Black woman, Breonna Taylor, in Louisville, Kentucky, in March 2020.The most far-reaching of the measures that senators are still debating would be to end current legal protections that block civil lawsuits against police accused of misconduct.Psaki put a brave face on chances of success, saying "the president is still very much hopeful that he will be able to sign the George Floyd Justice in Policing Act into law."While nothing is easy to get through the heavily divided Congress, Biden hopes that the energy unleashed in the wake of Floyd's death will "help move this legislation across the finish line."Confirming that there's still hope for the bill, House Democrat Karen Bass, Senate Democrat Cory Booker and Republican senator Tim Scott issued a joint statement on Monday citing "progress.""This anniversary serves as a painful reminder of why we must make meaningful change. While we are still working through our differences on key issues, we continue to make progress toward a compromise and remain optimistic," they said.For Biden himself, hosting the Floyds for a "real conversation" will be a moving moment, Psaki said.George Floyd's death was "a day that certainly impacted him personally and impacted millions of Americans."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/biden-hosts-george-floyd-family-on-anniversary-of-shocking-murder-101621906295787.html
25-05-2021||World||Joe Biden calls Belarus plane diversion an 'outrageous incident'||President Joe Biden on Monday said the forced diversion by Belarus of a commercial passenger jet so it could arrest an opposition journalist was “a direct affront to international norms" and condemned the action as an “outrageous incident."Biden made the statement — and joined calls for an international investigation — as the European Union imposed sanctions against Belarus, including banning its airlines from using the airspace and airports in the 27-nation bloc in reaction to Sunday's forced diversion of the Lithuania-bound Ryanair flight. The flight had originated from Greece, but was forced to land in Minsk.Also Read: EU to impose sanctions on, cut air links with Belarus after plane diversionBiden in his statement also expressed outrage over a video statement from Raman Pratasevich, who ran a popular messaging app that played a key role in helping organize massive protests against Belarus authoritarian leader President Alexander Lukashenko, that aired on Belarusian state television Monday night.In the video clip, Pratasevich, 26, said his treatment in custody was “maximally correct and according to law.” He added that he was giving evidence to investigators about organizing mass disturbances.“This outrageous incident and the video Mr. Pratasevich appears to have made under duress are shameful assaults on both political dissent and the freedom of the press," Biden said in a statement. “The United States joins countries around the world in calling for his release, as well as for the release of the hundreds of political prisoners who are being unjustly detained by the Lukashenka regime."Separately, the White House said that national security adviser Jake Sullivan on Monday spoke with Belarus opposition leader Svyatlana Tsikhanouskaya. Sullivan told the opposition leader that the U.S. “in coordination with the EU and other allies and partners, will hold the Lukashenka regime to account."Also Read: Outrage as Belarus forces plane to land, arrests journalist on boardTwo U.S. senators urged the Biden administration to prohibit U.S. airlines from entering Belarus airspace because of the incident. “We must protect innocent passengers from despotic regimes and stand in solidarity with dissidents who are being targeted," Sens. Dick Durbin, D-Ill., and Marco Rubio, R-Fla., said in a joint statement.The U.S. and the EU had already imposed sanctions Belarusian officials amid months of protests, which were triggered by Lukashenko’s reelection to a sixth term in an August 2020 vote that the opposition rejected as rigged. More than 34,000 people have been arrested in Belarus since then, and thousands beaten.“I applaud the courage and determination of Belarusians fighting for basic rights, including journalists like Raman Pratasevich and opposition leaders like Svyatlana Tsikhanouskaya and her husband, Syarhey Tsikhanouski," Biden said in a statement. “The United States will continue to stand with the people of Belarus in their struggle."Pratasevich was a co-founder of the Telegram messaging app’s Nexta channel, which played a prominent role in helping organize the anti-Lukashenko protests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/biden-calls-belarus-plane-diversion-an-outrageous-incident-101621902694954.html
25-05-2021||World||‘State terrorism, piracy’: Global outrage over Belarus flight diversion||Pressure was building Monday for a tough international response to Belarus’s forced landing of a European airliner so it could arrest an opposition activist.The Ryanair flight from Athens to Vilnius carrying dissident journalist Roman Protasevich was diverted while in Belarusian airspace on Sunday over a supposed bomb threat.Accompanied by a Belarusian fighter jet on the orders of Belarusian President Alexander Lukashenko, the plane landed in the capital Minsk where Protasevich, a 26-year-old who had been living in Lithuania, was arrested along with his Russian girlfriend.The move sparked an international outcry, with Western leaders accusing Belarusian authorities of essentially hijacking a European plane.As EU leaders prepared to meet for a summit later on Monday, Brussels said it had summoned the Belarusian ambassador to condemn the “coercive act”.Belarus’s exiled opposition leader Svetlana Tikhanovskaya said Protasevich’s life was in danger, calling for an international investigation and concrete steps against the regime.Belarus on Monday insisted the country had acted legally and accused the West of playing politics. “There is no doubt that the actions of our competent authorities... fully met established international rules,” foreign ministry spokesman Anatoly Glaz said in a statement, accusing the West of “politicising” the situation.The diversion of the plane was condemned in Europe, with EU chief Ursula von der Leyen describing it as “outrageous and illegal”, Poland denouncing it as “an act of state terrorism” and France calling for a “strong and united response”.NATO demanded a probe into the “serious and dangerous incident” and alliance envoys were to discuss it on Tuesday.US Secretary of State Antony Blinken called it “a shocking act” that “endangered the lives of more than 120 passengers.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/state-terrorism-piracy-global-outrage-over-belarus-flight-diversion-101621902574866.html
25-05-2021||World||National Guard exits US Capitol for the first time after January 6 attack||The US Capitol stood unprotected by National Guard troops for the first time in nearly five months Monday as concerns about right-wing extremist threats have diminished since the January 6 attacks.The last 2,149 of what had been nearly 26,000 troops in an extraordinary deployment in Washington departed over the weekend as their mission to protect Congress formally ended.The troops were mobilized after hundreds of supporters of then-president Donald Trump stormed the Capitol, halting the joint session of Congress to confirm Trump's rival Joe Biden as winner of the presidential election.Some broke into lawmakers' offices, and called for the killing of members of Congress and vice president Mike Pence, who was presiding over the session.Also Read: Trump administration officials to testify on January 6 riotsAmid fears of more threats around and following the January 20 inauguration of Biden, thousands of Guard troops were mobilized, patrolling the Capitol area day and night while a large fence encircled the grounds, making it appear a building under siege.The troops remained in Washington for months after the inauguration as what many dubbed an insurrection was investigated."These airmen and soldiers protected not only the grounds, but the lawmakers working on those grounds, ensuring the people's business could continue unabated," Secretary of Defense Lloyd Austin said in a statement.Trump, who was impeached for encouraging the assault, later claimed the attackers were "zero threat" to lawmakers and downplayed the episode.Since January 6 the FBI has arrested and charged some 440 people involved in attacking the legislature, dozens of them associated with armed militia groups.Nancy Pelosi, the Democratic speaker of the House of Representatives, thanked the National Guard, calling them "American heroes and defenders of democracy.""Their presence in our temple of Democracy following January 6th, one of the most harrowing and horrific days in our history, has brought security, safety and healing to the Congress and indeed the Country," Pelosi said in a statement."It is imperative that Congress continues to take action to honor the sacrifice of law enforcement and to protect the Capitol and ensure that an attack can never again be perpetrated against it," she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/national-guard-exits-us-capitol-for-the-first-time-after-january-6-attack-101621901280930.html
25-05-2021||World||Key impeachment Gordon Sondland witness sues Pompeo over $1.8M in legal fees||Gordon Sondland, the Trump administration's ambassador to the European Union and a pivotal witness in 2019 impeachment proceedings, sued former Secretary of State Mike Pompeo on Monday in an effort to recover $1.8 million he racked up in legal expenses.Sondland alleges in the lawsuit, filed in federal court in Washington, that Pompeo had committed to reimburse his legal expenses after he was subpoenaed by House Democrats to testify in an impeachment case that accused then-President Donald Trump of withholding military aid from Ukraine while demanding an investigation into political rival Joe Biden and his son Hunter.Instead, Sondland says, Pompeo “reneged on his promise” after learning the details of Sondland's testimony.“With the contractual commitment of Pompeo having been abandoned apparently for political convenience, Ambassador Sondland turns to this Court to reimburse his attorneys’ fees and costs and make him whole,” Sondland's lawyer, Mark Barondess, wrote in the lawsuit.A spokesperson for Pompeo called the lawsuit “ludicrous” and said Pompeo was “confident the court will see it the same way.”In testimony that Sondland's lawsuit describes as “highly fraught, highly charged and highly risky with tremendous consequences,” the then-ambassador described for investigators how Trump and his lawyer, Rudy Giuliani, explicitly sought a “quid pro quo” with Ukraine, leveraging an Oval Office visit for political investigations of Democrats.Trump was impeached by the House but acquitted in February 2020 by the Senate.Sondland was fired days after Trump's acquittal “simply for telling the truth,” according to the lawsuit. Since then, the complaint says, the government “has bobbed and weaved in the face of every attempt” by Sondland to be fully reimbursed for the legal expenses.The suit says the unwillingness to cover Sondland's legal fees not only represented a breach of commitment and “normal convention” but was also “especially problematic in this instance because the amount of preparation needed to comply with the subpoenas was staggering."“Ambassador Sondland retained a Washington, D.C. law firm well experienced in Congressional investigations that possessed the capacity to assist him, along with his long-time personal counsel, in preparation for his critically important testimony,” the lawsuit states. “Ambassador Sondland continued to rely on Pompeo’s individual promise, on behalf of himself and the Government, in seeking outside counsel and incurred nearly $1.8 million in attorneys’ fees and costs.”The lawsuit was first reported by The Washington Post.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/key-impeachment-gordon-sondland-witness-sues-pompeo-over-1-8m-in-legal-fees-101621901323584.html
25-05-2021||World||EU to impose sanctions on, cut air links with Belarus after plane diversion||The European Union agreed Monday to impose sanctions on Belarus, including banning its airlines from using the airspace and airports of the 27-nation bloc, amid fury over the forced diversion of a passenger jet to arrest an opposition journalist.Reacting to what EU leaders called a brazen “hijacking” of the Ryanair jetliner flying from Greece to Lithuania on Sunday, they also demanded the immediate release of the journalist, Raman Pratasevich, a key foe of authoritarian Belarusian President Alexander Lukashenko.“We won’t tolerate that one can try to play Russian roulette with the lives of innocent civilians,” said EU Council chief Charles Michel, who presided over the EU meeting.A brief video clip of Pratasevich, who ran a popular messaging app that played a key role in helping organize huge protests against Lukashenko, was shown on Belarusian state television Monday night, a day after he was removed from the Ryanair flight.Also Read: Outrage as Belarus forces plane to land, arrests journalist on boardSitting at a table with his hands folded in front of him and speaking rapidly, Pratasevich said he was in satisfactory health and said his treatment in custody was “maximally correct and according to law.” He added that he was giving evidence to investigators about organizing mass disturbances.In their unusually swift action in Brussels, the EU leaders also urged all EU-based carriers to avoid flying over Belarus, decided to impose sanctions on officials linked to Sunday's flight diversion, and urged the International Civil Aviation Organization to start an investigation into what they viewed as an unprecedented move and what some said amounted to state terrorism or piracy.The leaders called on their council “to adopt the necessary measures to ban overflight of EU airspace by Belarusian airlines and prevent access to EU airports of flights operated by such airlines.” In addition calling for the release of Pratasevich, they also urged authorities in Minsk to free his Russian girlfriend, Sofia Sapega, who was taken off the plane with him.The text was endorsed quickly by the leaders who were determined to respond with a “strong reaction” to the incident because of the “serious endangering of aviation safety and passengers on board by Belarussian authorities,” said an EU official with direct knowledge of the discussions who was not authorized to speak publicly about the private talks.Ryanair said Belarusian flight controllers told the crew there was a bomb threat against the plane as it was crossing through Belarus airspace Sunday and ordered it to land. A Belarusian MiG-29 fighter jet was scrambled to escort the plane in a brazen show of force by Lukashenko, who has ruled the country with an iron fist for over a quarter-century.Belarus authorities then arrested the 26-year-old activist, journalist and prominent Lukashenko critic. Pratasevich and his Russian girlfriend were taken off the plane shortly after it landed, and authorities haven't said where they're being held. Ryanair Flight FR4978, which began in Athens, Greece, was eventually allowed to continue on to Vilnius, Lithuania.“This is an attack on democracy,” said Ursula von der Leyen, the president of the executive European Commission. “This is an attack on freedom of expression. And this is an attack on European sovereignty. And this outrageous behavior needs a strong answer.”Von der Leyen added that a €3 billion EU investment and economic package for Belarus will remain on hold until Belarus “turns democratic.”Also Read | Minutes to touchdown: The moment a Belarusian dissident knew his time was upU.S. President Joe Biden said late Monday that he asked his team to develop appropriate options to hold accountable those responsible, in close coordination with the European Union, other allies and partners, and international organizations.White House press secretary Jen Psaki said earlier that the administration condemned the “shocking act” of diverting a flight to detain a journalist. She said Biden had been briefed on the incident and National Security adviser Jake Sullivan raised the issue in his call with the secretary of the Russian Security Council.EU leaders were particularly forceful in their condemnation of the arrest and the move against the plane, which was flying between two of the bloc’s member nations and was being operated by an airline based in Ireland, also a member.EU leaders have tried to bring Belarus closer to the bloc — to encourage democratic reforms and reduce the influence of Russia — but have failed so far.British Transport Secretary Grant Shapps said he instructed the U.K. Civil Aviation Authority “to request airlines avoid Belarusian airspace in order to keep passengers safe.” He added he was suspending the permit allowing Belavia to operate in the U.K.Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelenskyy ordered officials to move to cut the air link with Belarus and ban Ukrainian flights via the neighbor's airspace.The U.S. and the EU have imposed sanctions on top Belarusian officials amid months of protests, which were triggered by Lukashenko’s reelection to a sixth term in an August 2020 vote that the opposition rejected as rigged. More than 34,000 people have been arrested in Belarus since then, and thousands beaten.The Belarusian Foreign Ministry bristled at what it described as “belligerent” EU statements, insisting Minsk acted “in full conformity with international rules.”It ordered all Latvian diplomats out of the country after the Belarusian flag was replaced Monday with the white-and-red one used by the opposition at the world ice hockey championship in Riga, Latvia. The event was moved from Minsk amid the international outcry over the crackdown.Lufthansa said a flight from Minsk to Frankfurt with 51 people aboard was delayed Monday following a “security warning.” It was allowed to depart after the plane, passengers and cargo were searched.On Sunday, flight tracker sites indicated the Ryanair flight was about 10 kilometers (6 miles) from the Lithuanian border when it was diverted. There were conflicting reports on what exactly happened.Belarusian transport ministry official Artem Sikorsky said the Minsk airport had received an email about the bomb threat from the Palestinian militant group Hamas.But Ryanair said in a statement that Belarusian air traffic control instructed the plane to divert to the capital. The plane was searched, and no bomb was found. Ryanair CEO Michael O’Leary described the move as “a case of state-sponsored hijacking … state-sponsored piracy.”Passengers described Pratasevich's shock when he realized the plane was going to Minsk.“He freaked out when the pilot said the plane is diverted to Minsk. He said there’s death penalty awaiting him there,” passenger Marius Rutkauskas said after the plane finally arrived in Vilnius.Pratasevich was a co-founder of the Telegram messaging app’s Nexta channel, which played a prominent role in helping organize the anti-Lukashenko protests. Nearly 2 million Belarusians in the nation of 9.3 million people have followed the channel. Belarus authorities have labeled the channel “extremist” and charged Pratasevich in absentia of inciting mass riots and fanning social hatred. He could face 15 years in prison.Amid the international outrage, Moscow quickly offered a helping hand to its ally.Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov said the episode needs to be investigated — but that it couldn’t be rushed. Moscow and Minsk have close political, economic and military ties, and Lukashenko has relied on Russian support amid Western sanctions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/eu-to-impose-sanctions-on-cut-air-links-with-belarus-after-plane-diversion-101621900470901.html
25-05-2021||World||Trump's govt forced deported parents to leave kids behind: Report||A government watchdog says the Trump administration, under its practice of separating families at the border, forced migrant parents to leave the US without their children, contradicting claims by officials that parents were willingly leaving them behind.The Department of Homeland Security Inspector General said in a report released Monday that it found at least 348 cases in which Immigration and Customs Enforcement had no records showing migrants wanted to leave their children in the US. It also found “some” cases in which agency officials deported parents even while knowing they wanted to take their children with them.That contradicted assertions by senior DHS officials that parents were choosing to leave their children in the US to stay with family or for other reasons while they were deported in 2017 and 2018 as the administration sought to enforce a hard-line approach to immigration enforcement.The findings, issued by Trump-appointed Inspector General Joseph Cuffari, provide new insight into a policy that became a significant political crisis for the previous administration and a continuing challenge for the current one, which is working to reunite children who remain separated even now.“Those who conceived of this travesty will have to live with the memory of their cruelty for the rest of their lives," said Sen. Dick Durbin, an Illinois Democrat who is chair of the Judiciary Committee and requested the report.The Trump administration separated thousands of migrant parents from their children since the summer of 2017 as it moved to criminally prosecute people for illegally crossing the southwest border. Minors could not be held in criminal custody with their parents and were transferred to the Department of Health and Human Services.The mass separation of families sparked public outrage and a lawsuit from the American Civil Liberties Union, which also collected reports of parents being deported without the opportunity to take their children with them.“Throughout the litigation, we learned that some parents were even told their child would join them on the plane only to have the plane take off without the child," ACLU attorney Lee Gelernt said.That contradicts what DHS officials were telling the public.Then-DHS Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen, according to the report, testified to Congress in December 2018 that “every parent” had a choice to take their child back to their country and those who did not “made the choice not to have the child accompany them.”Nielsen told Congress in March 2019 that there has been “no parent who has been deported, to my knowledge, without multiple opportunities to take their children with them."Nielsen did not immediately respond to a request for comment. She has said previously that her agency did not set out to intentionally separate families but had no choice because the administration was criminally prosecuting border-crossers.Trump issued an executive order halting the practice of family separations in June 2018, days before a federal judge's ruling that did the same and demanded that separated families be reunited.In response to the report, ICE said it concurred with the findings and is working to address the issues around recordkeeping raised in the report.Shortly after taking office, President Joe Biden set up a task force to reunite hundreds of children who remain separated. It announced the first four reunifications this month.That effort is going on as the Biden administration confronts an increase in the number of migrants under 18 attempting to cross the southwest border by themselves.The administration has transferred about 19,000 to facilities overseen by HHS. Those children are being allowed to remain in the US while the government decides whether they have a legal claim to residency through a citizen parent or for some other reason.Meanwhile, the Biden administration continues to turn back adult migrants, including asylum-seekers, and many families crossing together under a public health order issued at the start of the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trumps-govt-forced-deported-parents-to-leave-kids-behind-report-101621881272949.html
25-05-2021||India||In meeting with UN chief, Jaishankar discusses the ‘Covid challenge’||Effective global vaccine solutions to tackle the Covid-19 pandemic and regional challenges in India’s neighbourhood, especially the situation in Afghanistan, figured prominently in a meeting between external affairs minister S Jaishankar and UN chief Antonio Guterres on Tuesday.Jaishankar’s meeting with UN Secretary-General Guterres in New York was the first major engagement of his five-day visit to the US. Jaishankar is also set to meet his American counterpart Antony Blinken and other officials of the Biden administration to discuss ways to ramp up the availability of Covid-19 vaccines. The foreign minister said in a string of tweets after the nearly hour-long meeting that he had highlighted to Guterres the importance of increased production and equitable distribution of vaccines, including the availability of raw materials needed to make the doses.“Discussed the Covid challenge, underlining the importance of finding urgent & effective global vaccine solutions. Critical to ramp up the vaccine supply chain to ensure greater production & fairer distribution,” Jaishankar tweeted after what he characterised as a “warm and comprehensive” meeting with the UN chief.The Indian government is currently focused on ways to boost access to vaccines and to increase their domestic production in the face of a growing domestic shortage of doses. Jaishankar’s interactions with his US interlocutors are expected to focus on ways to remove hurdles in critical supply chains for components needed to make the vaccines, including components and crucial equipment.On the other hand, the UN’s health agency, the World Health Organization (WHO), is looking at ways to ramp up vaccine supplies to the COVAX facility to increase the distribution of doses to low and middle-income countries. The disruption of supplies from Serum Institute of India (SII), the world’s largest vaccine manufacturer, has hit COVAX’s plans for supplying doses to dozens of countries.The situation in Afghanistan following the US drawdown of forces also figured in the meeting between Jaishankar and Guterres. Concerns have grown in the global community about the fragile security situation in the war-torn country, with Australia announcing on Tuesday that it will close its embassy in Kabul from May 28 because of an “increasingly uncertain security environment”.Jaishankar tweeted, “Deliberated on regional challenges in India’s neighbourhood. Shared our concerns about ensuring that the gains of the last two decades in Afghanistan are adequately protected.”With reference to Afghanistan, he added, “Countering terrorism and radicalisation remain priorities for the entire region.” Jaishankar tweeted that he and Guterres also discussed recent developments in Myanmar, where the elected government was removed in a military coup on February 1, and exchanged views on climate action. Jaishankar said greater resources were “essential for larger ambitions” for tackling climate change and financing “will determine our seriousness and credibility” to tackle the phenomenon.The minister said he had highlighted India’s constructive role in UN Security Council and conveyed the priorities of India’s presidency of the body during August. “Maritime Security and Technology for Peacekeeping address the needs of the day,” he said.Jaishankar also welcomed Guterres’ appreciation for India’s peacekeeping operations, including at Goma in the Democratic Republic of Congo. Indian troops played a crucial role in evacuating civilians and UN personnel from North Kivu’s capital Goma after a volcano erupted in the Congo last week.Jaishankar’s visit to the US marks the first trip to the country by a senior Indian leader since the Biden administration assumed office in January.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-meeting-with-un-chief-jaishankar-discusses-the-covid-challenge-101621966213036.html
25-05-2021||India||Odisha CM Patnaik stresses on saving lives as countdown for Cyclone Yaas begins||As the countdown for Wednesday's landfall of the very severe cyclonic storm "Yaas" begins,Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Tuesday asked officials to take all possible steps to protect human lives. Patnaik conducted a meeting to take stock of the cyclone situation in the state which has already started impacting lives across the coastal districts as heavy rain pounced with blowing of wind at a speed of about 60 kmph. "Every life is precious, thus all possible steps should be taken to protect life," the Odisha chief minister said. While the severe cyclonic storm Yaas is moving at a speed of around 15 kmph and presently lies about 180 km off Paradip coast, Odisha government rushed men, machines and medicines to the districts likely to be affected before Wednesday noon. The Doppler radar at Paradip has meanwhile located the "eye" of the severe cyclonic storm Yaas, sources said. "To be very specific, the cyclone is likely to make landfall near Dhamra port between Basudevpur in Bhadrak district and Bahanaga in Balasore district on Wednesday," Special Relief Commissioner (SRC) PK Jena informed Patnaik at the review meeting. The SRC said the landfall process will begin at 4 am of Wednesday and continue for four hours till 8 am and all 77 blocks have been kept under high-impact zone category. Wind speed during the landfall will be around 140-155 kmph, gusting to 180 kmph, Jena said. On the rescue, relief and restoration preparedness, the SRC said 52 teams of NDRF, 60 teams of ODRAF, 206 Fire Service teams and 86 wood cutting teams of forest department have already been deployed in 10 coastal and adjoining districts. Keeping in view the tidal surge warning of 2 meter to 4.5 meters during the landfall time, which will continue for about four hours, Jena said evacuation process is going on in full swing. Over 3 lakh have already been evacuated from the low- lying, local surge pockets and vulnerable areas to safe place. The process will be completed by tonight, he said. The state has 860 permanent shelters and 6,200 temporary homes identified where 7 to 8 lakh can be safely accommodated observing COVID protocol, he said. Each person in the shelter is being given face mask, sanitiser and facilities of hand wash is there in the shelters. This apart, free kitchens have started operating in all places, Jena added. While arrangements have been made to take the COVID-19 patients staying in unsafe buildings, Jena said pregnant and expecting mothers in districts are being shifted to "Maa Gruha" or Community Health Centres. The high-risk pregnant women are being shifted to nearest hospitals, he added. The SRC also urged people not to come out of their house during the cyclone and specifically asked youths to refrain from taking selfie during the cyclone. He claimed that all the fishermen from Odisha have meanwhile returned to the coast and awareness is being made through public announcement system asking them not to venture into the sea till May 27th as the sea condition is rough to very rough. The IMD also suggested the authorities to keep hoisted Great Danger Signal No. 10 (GD10) at Paradip and Dhamra Ports of Odisha, Great Danger Signal No. 8 (GD8) at Puri Port and Local Cautionary Signal No. 3 (LC3) at Gopalpur Port of Odisha. Commodore N P Pradeep, Naval Officer-in_Charge, Odisha & Commanding Officer INS Chilka said the Indian Navy is closely monitoring the movement of the cyclonic storm Yaas. Headquarters, Eastern Naval Command, and Naval Officers-in- Charge at West Bengal and Odisha area have carried out preparatory activities to combat the effects of the cyclone and are in constant touch with the state administrations for rendering assistance. As part of the preparedness, eight flood relief teams and four diving teams are prepositioned at Odisha and West Bengal to augment the existing resources. Four naval ships are on standby with Humanitarian Assistance and Disaster Relief (HADR) bricks, diving, and medical teams to render assistance in the most affected areas along the Odisha and West Bengal coast, he said. Naval aircraft have been kept ready at Naval Air Stations, INS Dega at Visakhapatnam and INS Rajali near Chennai to undertake an aerial survey of the most affected areas, casualty evacuation, and airdrop of relief material as required, the official said. Meanwhile, reports of tree uprooting has reached here from Bhandaripokhari in Bhadrak district, Simulia in Balasore district and house damage at Rajkanika in Kendrapara district under the impact of heavy rains and wind, sources said. The IMD in its latest bulletin informed that the severe cyclonic storm 'Yaas' has intensified into a Very Severe Cyclonic Storm. The system moved north-northwestwards with a speed of about 15 kmph during past 6 hours, and lay centred at about 160 km east-southeast of Paradip (Odisha), 250 km south- southeast of Balasore (Odisha), 240 km south-southeast of Digha (West Bengal) and 230 km south of Sagar Islands (West Bengal). The cyclone is very likely to move north-northwestwards, intensify further and reach near north Odisha coast close to Dhamra port by the early morning of Wednesday, it said. It is very likely to cross north Odisha-West Bengal coasts close to north of Dhamra and south of Balasore, during noon of Wednesday as a very severe cyclonic storm, the bulletin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-cm-patnaik-stresses-on-saving-lives-as-countdown-for-cyclone-yaas-begins-101621964526078.html
25-05-2021||India||Explained: Where did cyclone Yaas get its name from? Know more about the storm||The Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) in its latest bulletin on Tuesday said the storm that formed over the Bay of Bengal, 'Yaas', intensified into a “very severe cyclonic storm” and is likely to cross north Odisha-West Bengal coasts between Paradip and Sagar islands early on Wednesday.The IMD said at 9pm on Tuesday that 'Yaas' was located about 160km east-southeast of Paradip and 250km south-southeast of Balasore.Click here for latest updates on cyclone YaasIn a weather alert, IMD director general Mrutyunjay Mohapatra said that the impact of the cyclone will be severe for six hours before and after the landfall and Chandbali in Odisha will bear the maximum brunt of the storm.Even as authorities of both West Bengal and Odisha are pressed in action on war footing to mitigate the impact of the storm on lives, the Internet is abuzz with chatter over the peculiar name of the cyclone, especially days after another cyclone with a strange name, Tauktae (pronounced Tau'Te), battered the west coast of the country and left a trail of death and destruction.How did 'Yaas' get its name:'Yaas' (pronounced as Yass) got its name from Oman. The word has its origin in the Persian language and means the flower jasmine in English.Why do cyclones have names?The cyclones are named to identify the storms to send out warning notifications about their development. As the technical names could be difficult for the common people to remember and spread awareness on, naming them gives a unique identifier to these cyclones and makes it easier for the media and various authorities to disseminate information on them. If the speed of a cyclone is more than 34 nautical miles per hour then a panel gives it a special name.Who names them?The panel comprising 13 countries, including India, Bangladesh, Myanmar, Pakistan, the Maldives, Oman, Sri Lanka, Thailand, Iran, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates and Yemen, name cyclones in the region. In 2020, a new list of names was released that had 169 names of cyclones, having 13 suggested names each from 13 countries.Is there a criterion behind the names?The Indian Meteorological Department names the cyclonic storms rising in the north Indian Ocean when their forecast says that the depression has intensified into cyclonic storms with three-minute sustained wind speeds of at least 63kmph. The names are selected keeping in mind that they are gender, religion, culture, and politically neutral; they should not be offensive, or hurt anyone’s sentiments; they ought to be short and easy to pronounce; and the maximum length of the name should be eight letters.What will the next cyclone be called?The list of 13 names prepared by each of the 13 nations are out in public domain. The next cyclone in the region will be called 'Gulab', as recommended by Pakistan, while the one after it will be ‘Shaheen’, as named by Qatar. At present the first list is in use. Once the names in the first list are exhausted, the second list of the names in the table will be used, and so on.How severe will 'Yaas' be?In West Bengal, the wind speed in Kolkata, Howrah and Hooghly will reach between 70kmph and 80kmph gusting to 90kmph on May 26. The coastal areas bordering north and south 24 Parganas will experience 90kmph to 100kmph wind speed, gusting to 120 kmph. West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee said the impact of 'Yaas' could be more than cyclone Amphan that battered the state last year.Meanwhile, the storm surge in the sea and rivers triggered by ‘Yaas’, which coincides with the perigean spring tide of Wednesday’s full moon, would inflict the maximum damage this time, IMD officials have warned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/explained-where-did-cyclone-yaas-get-its-name-from-know-more-about-the-storm-101621960395039.html
25-05-2021||India||Will you die within 2 years after taking Covid vaccine? Centre busts fake news post||As the world continues to suffer the brunt of the coronavirus pandemic, there has been a tsunami of fake news on social media platforms giving misinformation about the viral disease with regard to source of origin, symptoms, remedies, vaccination, appropriate behaviour etc. Government authorities have time and again informed people through social media or official announcements to refrain from believing and re-sharing such rumours about the pandemic.One such fake news has been doing the rounds in India. The Centre on Tuesday tweeted a post which allegedly quoted Nobel Laureate and prominent French Virologist Luc Montagnier, stating that all those who have been vaccinated against the Covid-19 disease will die within two years. “The claim in the image is fake. The Covid-19 vaccine is completely safe. Do not forward this message,” the Centre said in a subsequent tweet.What is the viral post all about?According to the tweet shared by the Centre, the fake news post quoting Luc Montagnier read, “All vaccinated people will die within two years. Nobel Laureate Luc Montagnier has confirmed that there is no chance of survival for people who have received any form of vaccine.Also Read| Moderna says its Covid-19 vaccine found safe, effective in kids as young as 12In the shocking interview, the world’s leading virologist stated bluntly: “There is no hope and possible treatment for those who have already been vaccinated. We must be prepared to cremate the bodies.” The scientific genius backed up the claims of other eminent virologists after studying the ingredients of the vaccine. “They will all die from antibody-dependent enhancement. That is all can be said,” the viral post further read.What is the real story behind the viral post?Earlier in May, Luc Montagnier gave an interview to Pierre Barnérias of Hold-Up Media where he was asked about the ongoing mass vaccination program against Covid-19, according to a report by US-based RAIR Foundation.However, Montagnier never claimed that vaccinated beneficiaries will die within two years.An image allegedly quoting a French Nobel Laureate on #COVID19 vaccines is circulating on social mediaThe claim in the image is #FAKE. #COVID19 Vaccine is completely safeDo not forward this image#PIBFactCheck pic.twitter.com/DMrxY8vdMNIn fact, the Nobel Laureate said that vaccination has led to the creation of variants. “For the China virus, there are antibodies created by the vaccine. What does the virus do? Does it die or find another solution? The new variants are a production and result from the vaccination. You see in each country. It is the same. The curve of vaccination is followed by the curve of deaths,” Montagnier said in the interview which was translated in English, according to the RAIR Foundation’s report.Also Read| 'Sputnik V vaccine supplies in accordance to contract,' says RussiaThe virologist said he is doing experiments with those patients who got infected with Covid-19 after taking the vaccine. “I will show you that they are creating the variants that are resistant to the vaccine,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-you-die-within-2-yrs-after-taking-vaccine-centre-busts-fake-news-post-101621961181280.html
25-05-2021||India||Former Maha DGP Subodh Kumar Jaiswal appointed CBI Director||A high-powered committee led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and comprising Chief Justice of India NV Ramana and Congress Lok Sabha floor leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury on Tuesday appointed IPS officer Subodh Kumar Jaiswal as the new Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) Director.The 1985 batch officer from Maharashtra cadre is currently posted as director general of Central Industrial Security Force (CISF).According to the order issued by the Appointments Committee of Cabinet (ACC), Jaiswal will take over CBI. The post has been lying vacant since February first week when Rishi Kumar Shukla completed his tenure. Additional Director Praveen Sinha has been looking after the affairs of the premier investigation agency as interim chief since then.The decision to appoint Jaiswal at the coveted post was taken following a 90-minute long meeting by the panel, in which Congress leader reportedly opposed to the process adopted for the selection.Jaiswal will have a fixed tenure of two years in CBI from the day he joins the agency.The senior officer has earlier served as the Director General of Maharashtra Police before coming to centre on deputation last year.During his tenure as DGP Maharashtra, he had differences with the coalition government led by Shiv Sena on various issues including its transfer policy. He had opposed the transfer of the IPS officers before completion of two years of the tenure, as per the provisions in the Act.He has also served in the Mumbai Anti-Terrorism Squad, the Maharashtra police special investigation team (SIT) and the state reserve police force.In his previous central deputation, he had served with the Special Protection Group (SPG) that secures the Prime Minister and with the Research and Analysis Wing (R&AW), the country's external intelligence agency.People familiar with the development said that CJI made it clear during the meeting on Monday that there shouldn’t be any controversy in the selection process and officials left with less than six months in their retirement should not be considered for the CBI chief’s post. This, officials said, immediately ruled out three 1984 batch IPS officers - Y C Modi, Rakesh Asthana and S S Deswal - who were also strong contenders for the post, as they are set to retire in May, July and August respectively.Officials said the panel agreed on the names of Jaiswal, another 1985 batch IPS officer - Kumar Rajesh Chandra and 1986 batch officer - V S K Kaumudi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-maha-dgp-subodh-kumar-jaiswal-appointed-cbi-director-101621889562385.html
25-05-2021||India||Antiguan PM says Choksi’s citizenship will be revoked if he has fled the country||Antiguan prime minister Gaston Browne on Tuesday said that if fugitive diamantaire Mehul Choksi has indeed fled the country then his citizenship will be revoked. Browne pointed out that there is no reliable information so far to confirm that Choksi, who is wanted in a ₹13,500 crore loan fraud in Punjab National Bank, has fled Antigua and Barbuda. Browne also said that the law enforcement is working round the clock to locate Mehul Choksi.Mehul Choksi goes missing in Antigua, reports say he may have fled to Cuba“We don't have any reliable information to date to confirm that he has fled the country. It is likely that he may still be here and law enforcement is utilizing all efforts, including all intelligence to locate him,” Brown was quoted as saying in the Antiguan parliament, according to news agency Antigua News Room.Responding to reports that Choksi may have fled to Cuba, Browne said the possibility of Choksi leaving for Cuba on a boat is highly unlikely. "If he is in Cuba, it would have been by boat and he would have to leave within a matter of 36 hours, which is extremely unlikely," Browne said.Browne said that the local police along with the international police are working to locate Choksi. He said that the Antiguan government is working closely with the Interpol and the Indian government. Browne highlighted that Mehul Choksi has two cases before the courts of Antigua and Barbuda - one concerning his extradition to India and the other concerning the status of his Antiguan citizenship - due to which Mehul Choksi has reason not to leave the country."We have been collaborating with the Indian government. Mr Choksi has two cases before the courts of Antigua and Barbuda. One is the extradition to India, and the second one is revocation of his citizenship. From all indications, Mr Mehul Choksi has very strong interests here to fight those two cases," Browne said.Earlier on Tuesday, Choksi's lawyer refuted reports of the diamantaire fleeing to Cuba while speaking to HT. Vijay Aggarwal refuted the reports and said that Antigua police are investigating the matter. "Mehul Choksi is missing. His family members are worried and anxious and had called me to discuss. Antigua police are investigating. The family is in the dark and worried about his safety."Choksi who fled India in 2018 left his home on Sunday to go for dinner at the southern part of the island and has been missing since, according to reports by Antiguan media.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/antiguan-pm-says-choksi-s-citizenship-will-be-revoked-if-he-has-fled-the-country-101621959528655.html
25-05-2021||India||'No reliable info that Mehul Choksi has fled': Antigua PM||Antiguan prime minister Gaston Browne on Tuesday hinted that fugitive diamantaire Mehul Choksi has not fled the country, according to a video posted by antiguanewsroom.com. Browne said that there is no reliable information to confirm that Choksi has fled the country.“Mr Choksi was reported as missing. Since then, the Stratcom unit of Antigua and Barbuda police force has issued a statement. In fact, that statement will be shared with the Interpol and we have been collaborating with the Indian government as well. Mr Choksi has two cases before the courts of Antigua and Barbuda. One is the extradition to India, and the second one is the revocation of his citizenship. From all indications, Mr Mehul Choksi has very strong interests here to fight those two cases,’ Browne said in the Antiguan parliament on Tuesday.“I would not believe that law enforcement or anyone for that matter would have contemplated that Mr Choksi would have fled the country. In any case, we don’t have any reliable information to date to confirm that he has fled the country. It is likely that he may still be here and law enforcement is utilizing all efforts, including all intelligence to locate him,” Browne said.He added that in case it is true that Choksi has indeed fled the country, “we could get a judgement in absentia and we will revoke his citizenship in due course.”Browne said that “if indeed, Mr Choksi has fled the country as speculated, it would have been by boat because no aircraft with any flight plan (to Cuba) and any passenger by the name of Mehul Choksi would have been found by the authority,” adding that “no plane would have landed in this country illegally.”Talking about speculations that Choksi may be in Cuba, Browne said, “If he is in Cuba, it would have been by boat and he would have to leave within a matter of 36 hours, which is extremely unlikely.”Browne added “law enforcement continues to collaborate with regional and international police to make sure that he is located, just in case he may have absconded. But again Mr Speaker, we don’t have any reliable information to date to confirm that indeed he has absconded”.Police in Antigua have launched a search for Choksi, who went missing in the tiny Caribbean island on Sunday evening after heading to a popular local restaurant for dinner, according to his lawyer and a missing persons notice issued by the country’s Royal Police Force.Indian agencies have also alerted the Interpol for more information about his whereabouts, people familiar with the developments said.Reports in the Antiguan media on Monday suggested that Choksi may have fled to Cuba fearing his extradition to India but his lawyer Vijay Aggarwal denied the contention and Indian agencies said they had no such information.“Mehul Choksi is missing. His family members are worried and anxious and had called me to discuss. Antigua police are investigating. The family is in the dark and worried about his safety,” Aggarwal told HT.A report in a Caribbean news website Associates Times, quoting a person named Govin, a purported close aide of Choksi, claimed that he had “left the country a few days ago and is currently living in a safe house in based in Cuba”. The claim, however, appeared at odds with the police’s version of events, and of his last sighting.Choksi, who has sought refuge in Antigua after allegedly cheating Punjab National Bank of ₹13,578 crore along with his nephew Nirav Modi, and fleeing India in 2018, left his home on Sunday “to go for dinner at a well-known restaurant in the southern part of the island and was never seen again,” according to a report in the antiguanewsroom.com.The diamond merchant’s vehicle was found at Jolly Harbour, a popular nightlife hub on the 280 square km island with a population of less than 100,000 that is famous for its cricketing antecedents -- it is the home of talismanic West Indies batsman Sir Vivian Richards and iconic fast bowler Andy Roberts. Antigua famously has 365 beaches, “one for every day of the year”, according to its tourism tagline.Police in Antigua have sought public assistance to gather information on Choksi, who, according to a police statement, was last seen at about 5:15 pm (local time) before leaving for home in a car, which has since been recovered.After an official complaint was lodged at the Johnson Point Police Station, the police launched a manhunt. “Based on additional information received, the police have conducted numerous searches but to no avail,” the local police said in the statement on Monday.Giving information on his physical attributes for identification purpose, the police statement asked people to inform the Johnson Point Police Station or the Criminal Investigations Department (CID) if they had any information on his whereabouts. “Mehul is described as being of Indian descent, brown in complexion, five feet six inches (5’ 6”) in height, heavily built with a balding hairline. The police are seeking the assistance of the public in knowing the whereabouts of Mr Choksi,” the police statement said.Indian officials that HT spoke to, both in the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and the Enforcement Directorate (ED), said they are in touch with the concerned Antiguan officials through the ministry of external affairs (MEA), and were confident that Choksi would be traced soon.India has been pursuing Choksi’s extradition in Antigua since 2018, and an Interpol red notice is pending against him.In a charge sheet filed last year, ED alleged that Choksi did not just defraud Indian banks, but customers and lenders in Dubai and the US as well. His assets worth ₹2,500 crores have already been attached.As reported by HT in March, Antigua & Barbuda has initiated the process to cancel Choksi’s citizenship granted under the Caribbean nation’s Citizenship by Investment Programme (CIP) in November 2017. He has challenged the move in a court in the Caribbean nation.India has an extradition arrangement with Antigua and Barbuda. As per the provisions of the Extradition Act, 1993 of Antigua and Barbuda, a fugitive may be extradited to a designated Commonwealth country or a state with which there are general or special arrangements or a bilateral treaty.Choksi’s extradition is pending since 2018 in court there, which he has challenged.People familiar with his citizenship said that Choksi has approached the high court there against Antigua’s process to revoke his citizenship but the whole legal battle may take some time.His nephew Nirav Modi is currently lodged in a UK jail. The Westminster’s Court in London, in February this year, ordered his extradition, which he has challenged in the UK high court.Sherbir Panag, partner at Panag and Babu and international legal expert on white collar crimes, said, “Assuming that Mehul Choksi has left the country after he felt that India’s diplomatic efforts to bring him back here are working, he will try to place himself in a jurisdiction which doesn’t have extradition arrangement/treaty with India”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mehul-choksi-goes-missing-in-antigua-reports-say-he-may-have-fled-to-cuba-101621959671425.html
25-05-2021||India||News updates from HT: Leaders, celebrities mark George Floyd’s death anniversary and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘Your legacy will last forever': Leaders, celebs mark George Floyd’s death anniversaryPeople around the world on Tuesday marked the first death anniversary of George Floyd, a Black man who was murdered by a white police officer in Minneapolis, US. Floyd, 46, died after Derek Chauvin knelt on his neck for about nine and a half minutes. Chauvin was convicted last month of murder and faces sentencing on June 25. Read moreLakshadweep BJP leader springs a surprise on party, says some grievances genuineA Bharatiya Janata Party leader from Lakshadweep on Monday waded into the row over Lakshadweep’s acting administrator Praful Khoda Patel, saying he should have taken the people along before issuing the new regulations that have led to an uproar in the archipelago of 36 islands and beyond. Read morePM Modi to deliver keynote address during Buddha Purnima celebrationsPrime Minister Narendra Modi will on Wednesday deliver the keynote address at the virtual Vesak celebrations during the occasion of Buddha Purnima. Modi is scheduled to deliver his address at 9.45am in the meeting which would also be attended by “over 50 prominent Buddhist religious leaders from around the world”, a statement from his office said. Read more‘Toolkit’ probe: Delhi Police asks two Congress leaders to join investigationDelhi Police on Tuesday served notices to two Congress leaders Rohan Gupta and MV Rajeev Gowda in the ‘Covid toolkit’ case and asked them to join the probe following a complaint into the matter, officials familiar with the developments told news agency PTI. Read moreAnushka Sharma and Virat Kohli help raise funds to procure world's most expensive medicine for a childAnushka Sharma and Virat Kohli turned good samaritans for a child suffering from spinal muscular atrophy (SPA), a rare genetic disorder. The patient, Ayaansh Gupta, needed a medicine named Zolgensma, which costs ₹16 crore, to beat the disease. Read more'He could be more vulnerable to injury problems': Richard Hadlee's major concern for India's primary fast bowlerFor India, Jasprit Bumrah has been the backbone of the fast bowling attack in the past few years, and his ability to adapt across all formats has made him one of the best pacers in the world at this moment. Read moreRelax! Twitter and Facebook will not stop working tomorrow due to the new IT rules: Here's what experts thinkOn Tuesday, social media platforms were rife with discussions that major social media platforms like Facebook, Twitter, WhatsApp and Instagram would face bans if they failed to comply with the government’s new intermediary guidelines for social media platforms. Read moreCyclone Yaas: Bengal CM Mamata to spend night in office, 9 lakh evacuated||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-leaders-celebrities-mark-george-floyd-s-death-anniversary-101621955851334.html
25-05-2021||India||PM Modi to deliver keynote address at virtual Vesak celebrations during Buddha Purnima on April 26||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will on Wednesday deliver the keynote address at the virtual Vesak celebrations during the occasion of Buddha Purnima. Modi is scheduled to deliver his address at 9.45am in the meeting which would also be attended by “over 50 prominent Buddhist religious leaders from around the world”, a statement from his office said.“Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi will deliver the keynote address on the occasion of Virtual Vesak Global Celebrations on Buddha Purnima i.e. on 26th April 2021 at around 09:45 AM,” the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) said in a press release.“The event is being organised by the culture ministry in collaboration with the International Buddhist Confederation (IBC) and will witness participation of all the supreme heads of the Buddhist Sanghas from around the world. Over 50 most prominent Buddhist religious leaders from around the world will address the congregation,” the PMO further said in its statement.The ministry of culture also confirmed the event through a tweet: “As the world celebrates the UN Day of #Vesak on 26th May 2021, Hon’ble Prime Minister Shri @narendramodi will deliver the keynote address on the occasion of 2565th #BuddhaPurnima Diwas 2021, in the International event being organised by @MinOfCultureGoI & @IbcWorldOrg. #VesakDay.”The celebrations this year have been taken online for the second consecutive year following 2020 due to the Covid-19 pandemic. During the virtual celebrations last year too, PM Modi delivered the keynote address. “Buddha Purnima celebrations are being held through a Virtual Visak day owing to the impact of the Covid-19 Pandemic across the globe. The event is being organised in honour of the victims and the frontline warriors of Covid-19,” a statement from the PMO said on May 6, last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-deliver-keynote-address-at-virtual-vesak-celebrations-during-buddha-purnima-on-april-26-101621956131660.html
25-05-2021||India||Lakshadweep BJP leader springs a surprise on party, says some grievances genuine||A Bharatiya Janata Party leader from Lakshadweep on Monday waded into the row over Lakshadweep’s acting administrator Praful Khoda Patel, saying he should have taken the people along before issuing the new regulations that have led to an uproar in the archipelago of 36 islands and beyond.“It seems some of the grievances of the island people are genuine. It is always good to seek the opinion of people and their elected representatives before making decisions,” BJP’s Lakshadweep unit general secretary HK Mohammed Kasim said on Tuesday.The BJP leader’s remarks are at variance with the Bharatiya Janata Party’s official stand that has backed the acting administrator’s decisions, dismissing the offensive against him as a “misinformation campaign”.Kasim said he has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah about his stand on the political firestorm that erupted over the acting administrator’s actions.Opposition leaders including nearly a dozen lawmakers who have written to the central government and President Ram Nath Kovind have alleged that Praful Khoda Patel unilaterally decided to introduce norms for mandatory acquiring of private property for development, enact a special law that gives police powers to detain anyone, remove beef from the mid-day meal, cut trees for road expansion projects and introduce two-child norm for contesting in local body elections without consultations with people.Patel’s critics said the changes, described by his supporters as reforms, have attracted widespread resentment among the 70,000-strong population of the islands. They said the steps were aimed at “destroying the unique culture and tradition of the Indian Ocean group of islands.”Patel, a minister of state for home in Gujarat cabinet when Narendra Modi was the chief minister, was appointed as Dadra and Nagar Haveli administrator in 2016 and later also became the administrative head of Daman and Diu. In December, he was asked to officiate as administrator of the islands spread across 32 sq km after the death of Dineshwar Sharma.The Congress, CPI(M) and Muslim League have joined hands to oppose the administrator and demand his recall, accusing Patel of trying to “saffronise the island” where almost 95% population is Muslim.BJP vice-president in charge of Lakshadweep AP Abdullah Kutty said he was not aware of Kasim’s position and insisted that the opposition had ganged up.“These moves (by Praful Khoda Patel) are aimed at the overall development of the island. Usually administrators become pawns in the hands of local leaders. But this time it is not happening so all have ganged up against him,” he said, adding the ongoing “save Lakshadweep campaign” was politically motivated.Many office-bearers of Lakshadweep unit of the BJP resigned en masse in protest against the administrator's action. Among those resigned are the party's Yuva Morcha unit secretary PP Mohammad Hashim, who resigned along with seven others. The resignations were sent to BJP vice-president AP Abdullah Kutty.Lakshadweep MP, Nationalist Congress Party’s Mohammed Faizal, rejected the BJP criticism.A second-time MP from the island, Mohammed Faizal said new rules like two-child norm for local body polls, removal of beef from the mid-day meal scheme and the goonda act were an insult to the local people. The island has the “lowest crime rate in the country and its small jails are almost empty”. According to the National Crime Records Bureau, Lakshadweep did not register a single case of murder, attempt to murder, kidnapping, rape or robbery in 2019. There were 12 cases of rioting and 1 case of arson.Mohammed Faizal said some of Patel’s decisions were against the recommendations of Justice Raveendran Commission appointed by the Supreme Court in 2012 to look into allegations of some private resorts allowed in violation of coastal zone regulations.“His moves to widen roads, and develop inner areas are against the integrated island management plan mooted by the commission. You can’t develop it as a major tourism hub by hurting the sentiments of local people. All elected representatives are kept in the dark,” he said.Kerala BJP president K Surendran accused the opposition MPs of “spreading canards”.“Beef was not banned on the island at all. Some of the uninhabited islands are becoming a haven for anti-national forces. Development of the island is the need of the hour,” he said.Congress general secretary KC Venugopal, who accused the BJP of trying to turn the peaceful island into “another Kashmir”, said the Congress will send a team to the island to study the situation.Many film personalities and artists have also joined the ‘save Lakshadweep’ campaign on social media. Meanwhile, the Lakshadweep police have arrested four people including two students for allegedly sending threatening messages to the administrator.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lakshadweep-bjp-leader-springs-a-surprise-on-party-says-some-grievances-genuine-101621953491183.html
25-05-2021||India||‘Will fight for the rights of the people of Lakshadweep’: Priyanka Gandhi||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra criticised the administrator of the Union Territory Lakshadweep on Monday accusing him of destroying the heritage by imposing new rules on the inhabitants of the group of islands located in the Arabian Sea.Congress seeks recall of Lakshadweep administrator over draconian measuresPriyanka Gandhi’s accusations come after Praful Patel announced a slew of measures like the implementation of the Lakshadweep Anti-Social Activities Regulation Bill, 2021, or the “goonda act” in the islands which have a low-crime rate, ban of beef and elimination of non-vegetarian food from the menu of food given to children who go to Anganwadi schools. The former home minister of Gujarat took over the role of the administrator of Lakshadweep in December 2020.“The BJP government and its administration have no business to destroy this heritage, to harass the people of Lakshadweep or to impose arbitrary restrictions and rules on them,” Priyanka Gandhi said in a series of tweets. She said it is the people of this group of islands who understand and ‘honour its rich natural and cultural heritage.’Priyanka Gandhi also said that such measures should not have been taken without consulting the inhabitants of the islands. “Dialogue sustains democracy. Why can’t the people of Lakshadweep be consulted? Why can’t they be asked what they believe is good for them and for Lakshadweep?” she further said. Priyanka said that she will fight to protect the rights of the people of the islands and protect the “national treasure” cherished by all Indians.Congress leader Ajay Maken on Tuesday also demanded that Patel should be recalled from his position and he should withdraw the orders issued by him. The party called the orders ‘anti-people’, according to a report by HT.Praful Patel’s changes also allowed the government to take over the control of the local administrative powers of the elected Zilla panchayat regarding matters related to education, health care, agriculture, animal husbandry and fisheries. It also bars any person with more than two children from contesting the panchayat election polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-beef-ban-praful-patel-will-fight-for-the-rights-of-the-people-of-lakshadweep-priyanka-gandhi-101621949080062.html
25-05-2021||India||India, New Zealand for closer cooperation for free and open Indo-Pacific||India and New Zealand on Tuesday agreed to cooperate for a rules-based world order and a free and inclusive Indo-Pacific region during their foreign office consultations. The consultations, held virtually after a gap of more than two years because of the Covid-19 pandemic, reviewed bilateral cooperation and focused on steps to enhance engagement in key areas such as defence and security, trade and investment, counter-terrorism and climate change. The consultations were held against the backdrop of New Zealand’s foreign minister Nanaia Mahuta warning that the country could find itself at the heart of a “storm” of anger from China, and that exporters need to diversify to ensure they can survive deteriorating relations with Beijing. Both sides exchanged views on regional issues and “reiterated the importance of closer cooperation for a rules-based international order and a free, open and inclusive Indo-Pacific region”, the external affairs ministry said in a readout. Also Read | Japan to impose 10-day quarantine on travelers to India, 5 South Asian countriesThe response to the pandemic and access to vaccines and medicines for containing Covid-19 globally were also discussed by officials of the two countries. The two sides further discussed ways to strengthen coordination in multilateral and regional forums and carried out a comprehensive review of bilateral cooperation. They also discussed steps to “enhance the depth and momentum of engagement in different areas including defence and security, trade and investment, space, counterterrorism, cyber security, disarmament and climate change, and for strengthening people-to-people ties”, the readout said. The Indian side at the virtual meeting was led by Riva Ganguly Das, secretary (East) in the external affairs ministry, while the New Zealand delegation was led by Mark Sinclair, deputy secretary for the Americas and Asia group in the foreign ministry. The previous round of consultations was held in New Delhi in February 2019. In an interview with The Guardian newspaper, New Zealand’s foreign minister said the country couldn’t ignore what was happening in the Australia-China relationship. “And if they are close to an eye of the storm or in the eye of the storm, we’ve got to legitimately ask ourselves – it may only be a matter of time before the storm gets closer to us,” Mahuta said. Her comments came against the backdrop of Australia’s intensifying trade war with China and growing pressure on New Zealand to take a firmer stance on human rights violations and crackdowns by China. Mahuta added: “The signal I’m sending to exporters is that they need to think about diversification in this context – Covid-19, broadening relationships across our region, and the buffering aspects of if something significant happened with China.” she asked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-new-zealand-for-closer-cooperation-for-free-and-open-indopacific-101621948151142.html
25-05-2021||India||‘Toolkit’ probe: Delhi Police asks two Congress leaders to join investigation||Delhi Police on Tuesday served notices to two Congress leaders Rohan Gupta and MV Rajeev Gowda in the ‘Covid toolkit’ case and asked them to join the probe following a complaint into the matter, officials familiar with the developments told news agency PTI.The official confirmed that notices were served to Congress social media head Rohan Gupta and party spokesperson MV Rajeev Gowda with connection to the probe. The enquiry into the complaint is in its preliminary stage and no FIR has been filed so far. The police official also said that the notices are not fresh.“These notices were served around 8-9 days ago based on a complaint received from the Congress party. They were asked to join the probe so that it could help us in carrying the investigation forward,” the officials said.Earlier on Monday, Delhi Police searched Twitter India’s offices in New Delhi and Gurgaon and sent a notice to Twitter India asking it to clarify as to why BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra’s tweet on a ‘toolkit’ allegedly made by Congress to defame the government and PM Modi was tagged as ‘manipulated media’ by the social media giant.“The Delhi police team went to the Twitter India office to serve a notice to the social media giant as a part of routine process. This was necessitated as we wanted to ascertain who is the right person to serve a notice, as replies by Twitter India MD have been very ambiguous,” Delhi Police PRO Chinmay Biswal was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.Congress and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) have been at loggerheads since the past week over a purported ‘toolkit’ which the BJP claims was made by Congress to diminish the image of the Prime Minister and criticise government’s efforts to contain the pandemic. The Congress claims that the alleged ‘toolkit’ being tweeted by the BJP is fake.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/toolkit-probe-delhi-police-asks-two-congress-leaders-to-join-investigation-101621947320586.html
25-05-2021||India||Major fire breaks out at HPCL refinery in Vizag, no casualties reported||A major fire broke out due to a blast in one of the refineries of Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Limited (HPCL) in Andhra Pradesh’s Visakhapatnam on Tuesday afternoon, HT has learnt.An HPCL spokesman said the fire broke out in one of the crude processing units of the HPCL at around 3 pm. “Safety measures and firefighting was activated immediately and fire has been extinguished,” he said.Stating that the cooling operations had been taken up, the spokesman said there were no casualties in the mishap and there was no risk to the public. “The other refinery operations are continuing as normal,” he added.Visakhapatnam deputy commissioner of police Aishwarya Rastogi told reporters that the blast took place at Unit-3 of the HPCL refinery in the old terminal building.“Immediately, five fire tenders from the premises were pressed into service and more fire tenders were being rushed,” he said, adding that the exact reason for the fire was yet to be ascertained.Thick plumes of smoke billowed in the areas surrounding the HPCL plant, including Gajuwaka and Malkapuram areas on the outskirts of Visakhapatnam.Soon after the fire broke out, warning sirens were sounded and all the employees of the refinery were evacuated from the plant. Though it was suspected that at least six workers were trapped in the unit that exploded, it was later found that all of them managed to come out safely and no one was harmed in the incident.The HPCL authorities rushed a few ambulances to the spot to extend medical help to any worker who might have received injuries.Andhra Pradesh home minister Mekathoti Sucharita expressed shock over the refinery incident and spoke to senior police officials in Visakhapatnam to find out the details. She said apart from five fire tenders within the HPCL premises, another seven fire tenders were pressed into service to douse the fire.“There are no casualties or injuries. There is no need for the people of Visakhapatnam to be panicky,” she said.In September 1997, the HPCL, Visakhapatnam, witnessed the worst-ever fire accident killing 60 people and injuring 20 others. The fire started after an LPG pipeline leak caused an explosion in the storage area of the refinery.The blaze was still raging 12 hours after the explosion at around 6.30 am. About 70,000 people in the vicinity of the plant fled their homes to safer places. The local administration opened 10 relief camps in Visakhapatnam to accommodate the citizens till it was safe for them to return home.In August 2013, too, there was a similar fire accident in the HPCL. Two people were killed in the fire while 30 others got injured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/major-fire-breaks-out-at-hpcl-refinery-in-vizag-no-casualties-reported-101621947191638.html
25-05-2021||India||Congress seeks recall of Lakshadweep administrator over draconian measures||The Congress on Tuesday demanded the recall of Lakshadweep administrator Praful Khoda Patel and withdrawal of all “unilateral and anti-people” orders issued and promulgated during his tenure while accusing him of attempting to destroy the region’s cultural heritage.“...I demand an immediate recall of Patel and withdrawal of all the draconian and authoritarian draft orders issued by him....” said Congress leader Ajay Maken.Praful Patel, a former Gujarat minister, took charge as the administrator in December.Maken questioned how someone without any experience in civil service or military can be appointed as the administrator. He said Patel was made the administrator to fulfil Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)’s ideological objective and to ensure the presence of a representative of the party in Muslim-majority Lakshadweep.Also Read | Congress to Twitter: Tag as ‘manipulated media’ tweets of Union ministersPatel has introduced several contentious regulations including the Draft Lakshadweep Development Authority Regulation, 2021, which gives the administrator powers to remove or relocate islanders from their property for town planning or any developmental activity. Under the Prevention of Anti-Social Activities Act (PASA), introduced in January 2021, a person can be detained without any public disclosure for up to one year. As per another notification, a panchayat member with more than two children will be disqualified.Maken questioned the need for PASA in an area with the lowest crime record in the country. “Lakshadweep has near 0% crime rate... what is the need for an authoritarian and draconian order like PASA?”The administrator has also taken over the control of the powers of elected zilla panchayat related to education, health care, agriculture, animal husbandry and fisheries.Patel has given a go-ahead to open liquor bars in the island, a non-alcoholic zone due to its Muslim population, to promote tourism. He has also imposed a beef ban and ordered vegetarian food at Anganwadis. The Congress has said the local people fear that “all these unilateral and anti-people decisions would ultimately lead to the destruction of traditional livelihood and unique culture of Lakshadweep.”On Monday, Congress leader K C Venugopal wrote a letter to President Ram Nath Kovind seeking Patel’s recall while calling his measures authoritarian.Lakshadweep parliament member Mohammad Faizal has also urged the Centre to recall Patel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-seeks-recall-of-lakshadweep-administrator-over-draconian-measures-101621947070981.html
25-05-2021||India||BJP cadre asked to cover 100k villages to mark PM Modi govt’s 7th yr at Centre||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has set a target of covering 100,000 villages and organising 50,000 blood donation camps across the country to mark the party’s seventh year in power at the Centre on May 30.Instead of public programmes this year, the focus would be on relief programmes in the wake of the ongoing second wave of the pandemic.At a meeting of the national office bearers, party president JP Nadda said on Monday that workers will have to redouble efforts to reach out to people with needs.However, these relief programmes will have to be conducted without breaching any Covid appropriate protocol, said a party functionary. According to two other senior functionaries who are privy to the meeting, Nadda also stressed on ensuring that functionaries as well as the cadre on the ground do not indulge in any form of “political blame game”.Also Read | Congress to Twitter: Tag as ‘manipulated media’ tweets of Union ministers“The Opposition has been trying to politicise the pandemic and create an impression that the government did not make the required efforts to provide healthcare and vaccines for the people. At a time like this, party workers have been told to ensure that they focus only on providing relief,” said the second functionary cited above.Opposition parties, including the Congress, have alleged that the Union government did not make efforts to procure vaccines and also failed to ramp up infrastructure for medical care.The party, which also faces a clutch of elections next year, has now begun preparations to mitigate the anger on the ground through its Seva hi Sangathan campaign.On Saturday, HT had reported that all BJP-ruled states have been asked to draft and implement a policy for supporting children who have lost both their parents during the pandemic. A third functionary said members of Parliament, MLAs and other elected representatives have also been asked to oversee relief activity in their respective constituencies and states. “There are many MPs who have begun the process of organising relief camps and setting up helplines. They have also been asked to compile reports of the work they undertook and share it with the party high command,” said a third functionary.The functionary said the party has highlighted three areas for carrying out work; providing food and essentials; providing medicines, and helping people in the rural areas access healthcare facilities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-cadre-asked-to-cover-100k-villages-to-mark-pm-modi-govt-s-7th-yr-at-centre-101621946290701.html
25-05-2021||India||1971 Indo-Pak war decorated Army veteran loses battle with Covid-19||Colonel Panjab Singh, a 1971 Indo-Pak war hero, who with a handful of soldiers repulsed an attack by a Pakistani Army battalion and defended a strategic point in Poonch, died of post-Covid complications on Monday, HT has learnt. The Vir Chakra recipient passed away at the age of 79 at Command Hospital, Chandimandir, said Defence spokesperson, Lieutenant colonel Devender Anand.Recently, Colonel Panjab Singh successfully recovered from Covid-19 but due to some medical complications post his recovery, he left for heavenly abode on Monday, Anand added. Born on February 15, 1942, Singh was commissioned into the 6th Batallion of the SIKH Regiment on December 16, 1967. He went on to have the honour of commanding the prestigious Battalion from October 12, 1986, to July 29, 1990. In the 1971 war, during Operation Cactus Lilly, 6 SIKH occupied 13 kilometres of frontage on the heights above Poonch covering two strategic points, the loss of which would have directly threatened Poonch. “Col Panjab Singh, VrC (Retd) then a Major, was commanding a company deployed at Tund which had been actually limited to a platoon with the company headquarter. The enemy attacked the position with more than a Battalion on December 3, 1971, supported by artillery and mortar fire. The next 72hours were classical defensive battle fought by the fierce soldiers of 6 SIKH under the inspiring command of Col (then Major) Panjab Singh. The enemy came as close as few meters to the defences. Col Panjab, with complete disregard for his safety, moved from trench to trench and ensured that all weapons under his command engaged the assaulting force till the attacking force retreated leaving behind their dead and weapons. The enemy attacked the position nine times over two nights which were similarly foiled. For this brave act, he was awarded the prestigious Vir Chakra on December 24, 1971,” said Col Anand.Post-retirement, Col Panjab Singh was the director of Sainik Welfare, Himachal Pradesh, and dedicated himself to the welfare of the veteran’s fraternity. “He was also the vice president, Indian Ex-Service League, Himachal Pradesh of Southern Area. A popular gentleman, as a veteran he continued to inspire a generation of young officers who were lucky to interact with him. He leaves behind a proud legacy of a brave soldier and a gentleman,” said the spokesman. Unfortunately, on May 21, his elder son Anil Kumar also succumbed to the Covid-19. Col Singh is survived by his wife Vidya Devi, their daughter Usha, son Ajay Kumar, son-in-law Lt Gen DP Pandey, daughters-in-law Smriti, Suman and grandchildren.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/1971-indo-pak-war-decorated-army-veteran-loses-battle-with-covid19-101621945752266.html
25-05-2021||India||Centre cautions Union Territories over surge in Covid-19 cases||Union home secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla on Tuesday cautioned Union Territories (UTs) over surges in Covid-19 cases and asked them to remain vigilant to the situation as he chaired a meeting to review the management of the pandemic in the federally administered regions.He advised the UTs to learn from their experiences and to keep pace with testing and vaccination rates, besides enforcing appropriate behaviour and strengthening the medical infrastructure.Jammu & Kashmir was lauded at the meeting for performing reasonably well in mitigating the second Covid-19 wave with 3,946 cases per million population being reported over the last two weeks. The region has reported 62 deaths per million during the same period.Also Read | Delhi adds 1,568 new Covid cases, 156 deaths; positivity rate drops to 2.14%Jammu & Kashmir chief secretary BVR Subrahmanyam said they have enhanced both testing and vaccination capacities. “The early detection of infection has allowed for timely medical intervention, whereas vaccination was found to reduce the severity of disease in patients... both strategies have been successful in restricting Covid-related fatalities in the UT,” he said. Subrahmanyam credited timely response for reduction of cases from an all-time high of 5,500 to 2200 in two weeks. There was a reduction in the case positivity rate from 13% to 6.2% during the same time. Subrahmanyam said more cases were now being reported from rural than urban areas. He added they plan to establish five-bedded Covid care facilities with at least one oxygen-supported bed at approximately 4,000 Panchayats to provide immediate medical care. Twin 500-bedded temporary hospitals were also being established by the Defence Research and Development Organisation in Jammu and Srinagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-cautions-union-territories-over-surge-in-covid-19-cases-101621944791283.html
25-05-2021||India||India approves opening of first consulate in the Maldives||The Indian government on Tuesday approved the opening of a new consulate in Addu City of the Maldives this year to augment the country’s diplomatic presence in the Indian Ocean archipelago. A meeting of the Union cabinet, chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, cleared the proposal for opening the first such consulate in the Maldives, which has an important place in the government’s “Neighbourhood First” policy. “Opening of a consulate general in Addu City will help augment India’s diplomatic presence in Maldives and make it commensurate with the existing and aspired level of engagement,” an official statement said. “This is also a forward-looking step in pursuit of our national priority of growth and development or ‘Sabka Saath Sabka Vikas’. Augmentation of India’s diplomatic presence will...provide market access for Indian companies and bolster Indian exports of goods and services,” the statement added. Also Read | In Nepal’s political theatre, Delhi risks eroding strategic gains by backing OliThe opening of the consulate will also have a “direct impact in augmenting domestic production and employment in line with our goal of a self-reliant India or Atmanirbhar Bharat,” according to the statement. India and Maldives share ethnic, linguistic, cultural, religious and commercial links steeped in antiquity. Maldives occupies an important place in the ‘Neighbourhood First Policy’ and the ‘SAGAR’ (Security and Growth for All in the Region) vision of the Government of India. Indians are the second largest expatriate community in the Maldives, with an approximate strength of 22,000. About 25% of doctors and teachers in the Maldives are Indians. India is currently implementing large infrastructure projects worth $2 billion, such as ports, roads, bridges, water and sanitation, in the Maldives. Bilateral relations have also benefited from President Ibrahim Solih’s “India First” policy. The Maldives also received considerable assistance from India since the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic. It was the first country to receive made-in-India vaccines in January, when New Delhi gifted 100,000 doses. This was preceded by health and humanitarian assistance provided in 2020, including nearly 12 tonnes of medicines, and a soft loan of $250 million for budgetary support.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-approves-opening-of-first-consulate-in-the-maldives-101621943470902.html
25-05-2021||India||We need Taiwan as observer at WHA and Covid investigation, says US||Addressing the 74th World Health Assembly (WHA) on Tuesday United States secretary of health and human services Xavier Becerra said the world leaders must do more to understand the current pandemic and look forward toward detecting, preparing, and responding to future biological threats."The Phase 2 of the Covid origins study must be launched with terms of reference that are transparent, science-based, and give international experts the independence to fully assess the source of the virus and the early days of the outbreak," Becerra said.He stressed the need to implement and adhere to obligations under the international health regulations."We need to improve transparency, immediately share critical information about outbreaks with pandemic potential, and strengthen health systems to withstand shocks," he said.ALSO READ: At WHA talk-shop, countries mull WHO reforms and rebuilding post-Covid worldHe also reiterated the US' demand for inclusion of Taiwan as an observer. "Global collaboration will be key in tackling the many challenges still before us. Collaboration with non-state actors must continue, and we must invite Taiwan to be a part of the World Health Assembly as an observer," he said.China considers Taiwan as its undisputed territory and retaliates at any country which wants to have separate and independent diplomatic ties with Taipei. For US to ask for Taiwan to become an observer at the WHA is akin to showing the red flag to president Xi Jinping."The Covid-19 pandemic not only stole a year from our lives, it stole millions of lives," he said at the gathering."The challenges before us are many, but not insurmountable," Becerra acknowledged.He praised the pan-American health organisations for leading efforts to combat the pandemic and deliver much needed supplies and vaccines to our neighbors in the Americas as well as AFRO and its concurrent work to respond to multiple Ebola outbreaks on top of Covid-19."Now we must honor our departed by taking urgent action this year – to strengthen health security and pandemic preparedness so that we are better prepared for the next global health crisis," he said, adding, "This means improving global triggers, so all countries take swift action toward the next biological threat."He stressed the need for developing surge capacity for the global manufacturing of personal protective equipment, vaccines, therapeutics, diagnostics, and the healthcare workforce."Together, we must address racial, gender and other forms of inequality, promote sexual and reproductive health and rights, and strive for equity across society," he said.The WHO kicked off the main annual gathering of World Health Assembly with 194 member states on Monday with all eyes on the global response to Covid-19 - and what concrete steps can be taken to avert future pandemics.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/we-need-taiwan-as-observer-at-wha-and-covid-investigation-says-us-101621940847031.html
25-05-2021||India||News updates from HT: Covid vaccinations will increase as production rises, says Gagandeep Kang and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘Vaccination rates will rise as production increases': virologist Gagandeep KangGagandeep Kang on Tuesday said that there is a global shortage of vaccines and India has to take a decision on whether it wants to buy vaccines developed by either Chinese or Russian vaccination companies. Read moreIn Nepal’s political theatre, Delhi risks eroding strategic gains by backing OliA fresh political crisis is brewing in Nepal. President Bidhya Bhandari has dissolved the Parliament and called for fresh elections on the recommendation of Prime Minister K.P. Oli, but not without the drama that is part and parcel of Nepali politics. Read moreWho will win India vs New Zealand World Test Championship final? Legendary Richard Hadlee has his sayAhead of the summit clash in Southampton, England which begins on June 18, legendary New Zealand fast bowler Richard Hadlee shared his thoughts on the first-ever WTC final in the history of cricket. Read moreHyundai on EV offensive and Ioniq 6 and Ioniq 7 to carry forward chargeHyundai has big and mighty plans for its upcoming Ioniq 5 electric vehicle which is scheduled for an official launch later this this year but in its battery-powered arsenal are more products that would seek to make Hyundai a formidable player in the EV space. Read moreMalaika Arora aces a neat Camatkarasana to improve self confidence with YogaWe don’t know how she does it but Malaika Arora makes even the most complex of exercises look effortless and this week was no different as she nailed Yoga’s Camatkarasana in a neat manner. Read more‘Sputnik V, Sputnik Lite are reliable like Kalashnikovs…’: Russian deputy EnvoyRussian Deputy Envoy Roman Babushkin said Sputnik Lite, the single dose Covid vaccine’s promotion and distribution in India would be very helpful. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-covid-19-vaccinations-will-increase-as-production-rises-says-virologist-gagandeep-kang-and-all-the-latest-news-101621941385750.html
25-05-2021||India||‘Vaccination rates will rise as production increases': virologist Gagandeep Kang||Virologist and member of Supreme Court-appointed committee on allocation of medical oxygen Gagandeep Kang on Tuesday said that there is a global shortage of vaccines and India has to take a decision on whether it wants to buy vaccines developed by either Chinese or Russian vaccination companies.She said that a decision should be taken on procurement of vaccines until Indian companies begin production. She also said that vaccination rates will go up as soon as companies ramp up production. “There is a global vaccine shortage and we can import vaccines but the vaccines made in China and Russia are the only ones available hence we have to decide which vaccines we are willing to buy until Indian companies ramp up production,” Dr Kang was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.India’s Panacea Biotec and the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) on Monday announced that full-scale production of Sputnik V Covid-19 vaccine is slated to begin this summer. The Russian sovereign wealth fund has tied up with Gland Pharma, Hetero Biopharma, Panacea Biotec, Stelis Biopharma and Virchow Biotech to produce at least 850 million doses a year in India. India has not made any deals with China so far regarding procurement of Covid-19 vaccines.“Vaccinations are slow as there is no or limited supply. There were supposed to be more doses of vaccines available but as companies step up production vaccination rates will go up,” Kang further added.Several states in India have written to the Centre regarding halting of vaccination drives due to lack of vaccines. The Punjab and Delhi governments have also said that their vaccine procurement requests were turned down by vaccine companies Moderna and Pfizer. According to the health ministry on Monday, India has so far vaccinated at least 196 million people out of which 43.1 million people have been administered with both doses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vaccination-rates-will-rise-as-production-increases-virologist-gagandeep-kang-101621941165219.html
25-05-2021||India||Fire at HPCL’s plant in Visakhapatnam, no casualty reported||A major fire broke out at one of the crude processing units of the Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Limited’s (HPCL’s) plant in Andhra Pradesh’s Visakhapatnam on Tuesday afternoon, the state-run company said. “A fire incident occurred in one of the crude processing units of HPCL’s Visakh Refinery today. Safety measures & firefighting was activated immediately. The fire has been extinguished. There is no casualty & no risk to the public. Other Refinery operations are normal,” HPCL said in a tweet.No casualties have been reported but a few workers are said to be trapped in the unit. All the employees of HPCL in the nearby units have been evacuated, officials said. Ambulances also have been rushed to the spot, they added.“As per information, a blast was reported at Unit-3 plant in HPCL. Five fire tenders are present at the spot. More fire tenders are being rushed. The cause of the incident is yet to be ascertained,” deputy commissioner of police (DCP) Aishwarya Rastogi was quoted as saying by ANI earlier.Images tweeted by ANI showed huge flames and smoke billowing out of the HPCL plant.“There was a deafening sound like a blast and there was a ball of fire. The siren was sounded and we all came running out to safety," a worker said, according to news agency PTI.The HPCL’s Vizag refinery has three crude units.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fire-at-hpcl-s-plant-in-visakhapatnam-no-casualties-reported-101621940505805.html
25-05-2021||India||Congress to Twitter: Tag as ‘manipulated media’ tweets of Union ministers||The Congress on Tuesdaywrote to Twitter urging it to tag as “manipulated media” tweets of Union ministers for “spreading false and malicious propaganda” related to the alleged toolkit, which the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has claimed was made to defame Prime Minister Narendra Modi and build a biased narrative over Covid-19 management, and the Central Vista project.This comes days after Twitter last week flagged as manipulated media BJP national spokesperson Sambit Patra’s tweet with details of the alleged Congress toolkit. Several BJP leaders and Union ministers amplified Patra’s tweet.The government has written to Twitter to express its displeasure over the tagging of Patra’s tweet. The Delhi Police on Monday said they have sought a clarification from Twitter in connection with the tagging. Police officers also visited Twitter’s offices and to issue summons to Twitter’s managing director Manish Maheshwari related to the probe into the toolkit.Also Read | After Delhi Police’s visit to Twitter office, Rahul Gandhi tweets about truthIn his letter to Twitter, Congress spokesman Randeep Surjewala has cited links to the tweets of 11 Union ministers including Piyush Goyal, Harsh Vardhan, Ramesh Pokhriyal, Ravi Shankar Prasad, and Smriti Irani for action. “You would appreciate that the forged, fabricated material and the claims made under the malicious #CongressToolkitExposed, by the various ministers above-named, is identical to the material that has already marked as ‘manipulative media’, by Twitter, on various accounts including that of the BJP Spokesperson- Mr. Sambit Patra (@sambitswaraj,” he wrote. “...people tend to believe ‘true’ and take on face value, any information that is put up directly by a Union Minister of the Government of India through his/her official/verified Twitter account.” Surjewala argued it becomes even more important that their tweets are also classified as manipulated media. He added ministers should be dealt with the same yardstick.Twitter defines any media (videos, audios, and images) that have been deceptively altered or fabricated as manipulated. Tweets are labelled under this category when they are “likely to cause harm”.Congress last week wrote to Twitter seeking the removal of BJP chief J P Nadda, Irani, Patra, and B L Santosh’s tweets about the toolkit and to permanently suspend their accounts. Two Congress leaders have filed a complaint seeking a first information report against BJP leaders for allegedly “forging documents, and circulating fabricated material on Twitter under the hashtag CongressToolkitExposed.”There was no immediate response from BJP or Twitter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-asks-twitter-to-tag-as-manipulated-media-tweets-of-ministers-101621938911062.html
25-05-2021||India||Aarogya Setu will display vaccination status, double blue ticks for fully vaccinated||The Aarogya Setu mobile application, India’s contact tracing app introduced last year during the early months of the coronavirus pandemic, has now been upgraded to also indicate a person’s vaccination status. The app is used for contact tracing and also for the dissemination of medical advisories intended to contain the spread of Covid-19 in India and is currently maintained by the National Informatics Centre (NIC). “Now your Vaccination Status can be updated on Aarogya Setu. Get your self vaccinated - Get the Double Blue Ticks and Get the Blue Shield,” Aarogya Setu tweeted on Tuesday.The application uses Bluetooth technology and the personal contact number of a person to mark them as either Covid-19 positive or negative. All Covid-19 test results are uploaded by the laboratory which analysed the samples to the Indian Council of Medical Research’s (ICMR’s) online portal. Once a person tests positive for the coronavirus disease, ICMR then shares the user’s contact number with the Aarogya Setu based on which the person is marked as Covid-19 positive in the app—indicated by status changed to red colour).Apart from the Co-WIN digital platform used for Covid-19 vaccinations, the government has said that the Aarogya Setu app could also be used by the beneficiaries to register themselves.India’s vaccination drive against the coronavirus disease commenced on January 16 and is currently in its third phase, during which all people above 18 years of age are eligible to receive the vaccine. Two vaccines—Covishield manufactured by the Serum Institute of India and Covaxin manufactured by Bharat Biotech—are being used for inoculation in India. Lately Russian-made Sputnik V vaccine has also received approval for usage in the country. According to the latest data from the Union ministry of health and family welfare, 198,538,999 doses of the Covid-19 vaccine have been administered to eligible beneficiaries in the country as of 8am on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aarogya-setu-will-display-vaccination-status-double-blue-ticks-for-fully-vaccinated-101621938102863.html
25-05-2021||India||Covid-19 cannot be a ground for anticipatory bail, says SC||The Supreme Court on Tuesday held that apprehension of death due to the worsening Covid-19 situation cannot be a ground to grant anticipatory bail to an accused. The order was passed on a petition filed by Uttar Pradesh government challenging a May 10 order of the Allahabad high court which granted protection from arrest to a man citing the worsening pandemic situation in Uttar Pradesh.Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, who appeared for the state, had requested for a stay on the order on an apprehension that the same would be cited by other accused before various courts. A vacation bench of justices Vineet Saran and BR Gavai stayed the high court observations and appointed senior advocate V Giri to assist the court as amicus curiae. The court issued notice on the state’s plea and agreed to hear the petition in the first week of July.The bench, however, did not stay the bail granted to the accused, one Prateek Jain, facing 130 criminal cases but made it clear that if the accused did not appear on the next date, the bail granted to him will stand cancelled and the HC order subsequently stayed. The HC allowed the accused to remain on anticipatory bail till January 3, 2022, considering the news of a possible third wave of infections by September this year. Also Read | Provide ration, meals to migrants, Supreme Court tells statesMehta told the court that the HC passed sweeping observations without considering the facts of the case and the gravity of the offences against the accused. The bench said, “The observations (made by HC) shall remain stayed.” It further added that courts in the country, while considering bail petitions, will solely go by the merits of the case and not by the observations made in the Allahabad HC order.The Uttar Pradesh government had filed the plea on the ground whether an accused needs to be protected till the threat of novel coronavirus to their life is minimised or eradicated. The accused had sought protection from arrest before high court, claiming that he would be vulnerable to Covid in a crowded jail without proper medical facilities. Without adopting the common yardsticks provided under law to deal with anticipatory bail applications, the single-judge HC bench of Justice Siddharth said, “extraordinary times require extraordinary remedy and desperate times require remedial remedy”. “The apprehension of an accused being infected with novel coronavirus before and after his arrest, and the possibility of his spreading the same while coming into contact with the police, court and jail personnel or vice-versa can be considered to be a valid ground for grant of anticipatory bail to an accused,” the bench observed. It further held that in cases where a charge sheet has been filed or warrants issued against an accused, “such an accused is required to be protected till the threat of novel coronavirus to his life is minimised or eradicated and normal functioning of the courts is restored”. The bench had also relied on a Supreme Court judgment from earlier this month that ordered the release of prisoners granted bail or parole to decongest jails in view of the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-cannot-be-a-ground-for-anticipatory-bail-says-sc-101621936750592.html
25-05-2021||India||Cyclone Yaas may cause maximum damage in Odisha’s Chandbali: IMD||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Tuesday severe cyclonic storm Yaas may make landfall between Dhamra and Chandbali areas of Odisha's Bhadrak district early on Wednesday. Yaas is likely to intensify into a very severe cyclonic storm by Tuesday evening and Chandbali is likely to witness the maximum damage, IMD’s director general Mrutyunjay Mohapatra said.Also read | Odisha braces for Cyclone Yaas, issues red alert for 4 districts“It is expected to intensify into a very severe cyclonic storm on May 26 and cross the coast somewhere near Chandbali in Bhadrak district with wind speed of 155-165 km per hour accompanied by gusts of 185 km per hour. The impact of Cyclone Yaas will be high six hours before and after the landfall. Big trees and electric poles may get uprooted. Chandbali is likely to witness maximum damage due to the cyclone,” Mohapatra added.Also watch: Cyclone Yaas to intensify into 'very severe cyclonic storm'; prep ramped upThe system is likely to cause heavy rain over large parts of West Bengal and Odisha on Tuesday and Wednesday. "Rain has already started and will continue. Wind speeds in Kendrapara and Jagatsinghpur districts will reach around 80kmph by midnight," he was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.IMD said in its latest bulletin issued at 9.10am on Tuesday that Yaas is likely to move north-northwestwards and intensify further into a very severe cyclonic storm during the next 12 hours. The system has been moving north-northwestwards at a speed of 10kmph during the past six hours. It lays centred around 320km south-southeast of Paradip (Odisha), 430km south-southeast of Balasore (Odisha) and 420km south- southeast of Digha (West Bengal) at 5.30am, it said.Also read | Cyclone Yaas inches closer, West Bengal to evacuate around a million peopleSqually wind speeds reaching 50-60kmph gusting to 70kmph are prevailing over north Bay of Bengal and along and off Andhra Pradesh-Odisha-West Bengal-Bangladesh coasts, the weather bureau said. Wind speeds will increase to 155-165kmph gusting to 185kmph over northwest Bay of Bengal and along and off north Odisha and adjoining West Bengal coasts including Jagatsinghpur, Kendrapara, Bhadrak, Balasore districts of Odisha during landfall, it added.Wind speeds may increase to 100-120kmph gusting to 145kmph in Odisha's Mayurbhanj district and West Bengal's Purba Medinipur and South 24 Parganas districts. Wind speeds reaching 80-90kmph gusting to 110kmph will prevail over Odisha's Puri, Cuttack, Khurda and Jajpur districts and West Bengal's Jhargram, Paschim Medinipur and North 24 Parganas districts during the period. Yaas is also expected to cause a storm surge of 2-4 metres along the coastline of Purba Medinipur and 1-2 metres in South 24 Parganas.Authorities began evacuating thousands of people to safety on Tuesday as a "severe" Cyclone Yaas neared, days after another cyclone battered the west coast of the country leaving a trail of death and destruction. Odisha’s special relief commissioner Pradip Jena said district collectors have been asked to finish evacuation from the four coastal districts of Balasore, Bhadrak, Kendrapara and Jagatsinghpur by Tuesday afternoon. He added that arrangements have been made to accommodate up to 750,000 evacuaees in 7,000 shelters prepared for the purposed. “Zero casualty is the motto. We are leaving no stone unturned for saving lives,” Jena said. Fishermen have been asked not to venture out into the sea till further information. It warned of destruction to thatched houses, extensive damage to kutcha dwellings and some damage to pucca buildings in coastal and adjoining interior districts of West Bengal. IMD also warned of bending or uprooting of electric poles and disruption of railway services due to snapping of power lines and signalling systems, prompting the South Eastern Railway to cancel several passenger special trains till Wednesday.Also read | As Cyclone Yaas moves towards eastern coast, warning for these statesThe last time Odisha faced a cyclone was in May 2019 when Cyclone Fani ripped through Puri, Khurda and Cuttack districts, killing 64 people and affecting about 16.5 million people in more than 18,000 villages. It damaged an estimated 360,000 houses. Cyclone Titli killed 77 people in 2018, destroyed 260,000 hectare of agricultural land and over 60,000 houses and killed more than 35,000 domestic animals. In 2013, Cyclone Phailin wreaked havoc in the eastern state affecting over 1.1 million people and causing damages worth  ₹4,240 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-yaas-may-cause-maximum-damage-in-odisha-s-chandbali-says-imd-101621935852124.html
25-05-2021||India||21.89 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses provided to States, UTs so far||The Ministry of Health and Family Welfare on Tuesday said that more than 21.89 crore vaccine doses have been provided to States and Union Territories so far.It also said that 1,77,67,850 crore Covid vaccine doses are still available with the States and UTs to be administered.According to the Health Ministry, the Centre has so far provided, both through the free of cost category and through direct state procurement category, more than 21.89 crore vaccine doses (21,89,69,250) to states and union territories."Of this, the total consumption, including wastages is 19,93,39,750 doses (as per data available at 8 am today)," the ministry said.Furthermore, 7 lakh vaccine doses are in the pipeline and will be received by the states and UTs within the next three days.It further said that the Government of India has also been facilitating direct procurement of vaccines by the states and UTs."Vaccination is an integral pillar of the comprehensive strategy of Government of India for containment and management of the pandemic, along with Test, Track, Treat and COVID Appropriate Behaviour," it added.The implementation of the liberalised and accelerated phase-3 strategy of Covid-19 vaccination has started from May 1, 2021."Under the strategy, in every month 50 per cent of the total Central Drugs Laboratory (CDL) cleared vaccine doses of any manufacturer would be procured by Govt. of India. It would continue to make these doses available to the state governments totally free of cost as was being done earlier," it further added.As per the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, a total of 19,85,38,999 vaccine doses have been administered through 28,41,151 sessions, as per the provisional report till 7 am today. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2189-crore-covid-19-vaccine-doses-provided-to-states-uts-so-far-101621934358860.html
25-05-2021||India||Black fungus declared as notified disease in these states||With the cases of Mucormycosis, commonly known as the black fungus, seeing a steady rise across the country amid an-already ravaging second wave of the coronavirus disease pandemic, several states declared the fungal infection a notified disease under the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897.READ MORE: What is Mucormycosis and how deadly is it? Know everything about Black FungusThe Union health ministry has urged states and Union territories to make black fungus a notified disease under the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, stating that the infection is leading to prolonged morbidity and mortality among Covid-19 patients. A notified disease is required by law to be reported to the government authorities. The collection of information allows the authorities to monitor the disease and provide early warning of possible outbreaks.Here is a list of states that have declared Mucormycosis a notified disease:1. Telangana—Soon after the Centre’s notification last Thursday, Telangana was the Mucormycosis a notified disease.2. Odisha--The Odisha government, too, declared Mucormycosis as a notified disease on May 21 after the state reported its first case on May 10.3. Rajasthan--Chief minister Ashok Gehlot has said that the black fungus infection has been notified as an epidemic in Rajasthan and said that the health department is required to have complete details of patients infected by it.4. Karnataka--Karnataka health minister K Sudhakar declared black fungus a notified disease.5. Tamil Nadu--The Tamil Nadu government has declared black fungus a notified disease under the Public Health Act.6. Uttarakhand--The Uttarakhand government declared black fungus as a notified disease in the state under the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897. The state government has also issued an SOP for distribution of Amphotericin B, a drug used in treating black fungus patients.7. Bihar--Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar announced black fungus as a notified disease under the provisions of the Epidemic Diseases Act.8. Madhya Pradesh--The Madhya Pradesh government declared black fungus a notified disease in the state under the provisions of the Epidemic Diseases Act and the Madhya Pradesh Public Health Act.9. Gujarat--According to a statement by Gujarat CMO, the state declared black fungus an epidemic in the state. “Government and private hospitals/medical colleges treating the disease will have to follow guidelines by Union health ministry as well as ICMR for screening, diagnosis and treatment," the statement read.10.Maharashtra--Maharashtra is the latest state to classify black fungus as a notified disease.11.Andhra Pradesh--The Andhra Pradesh government has notified mucormycosis under the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/black-fungus-declared-as-notified-disease-in-these-states-101621930175465.html
25-05-2021||India||Chennai school teacher arrested over sexual harassment complaints||A Chennai schoolteacher was arrested late on Monday for allegedly sexually harassing multiple students, Shankar Jiwal, the city police commissioner said. He was produced before a magistrate on Tuesday and remanded in judicial custody.The teacher has been booked under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, Indian Penal Code’s Sections 354 A (sexual harassment) and 509 (insulting modesty of a woman) as well as provisions of the Information Technology Act related to publishing or transmitting obscene material in electronic form and that containing sexually explicit act.An alumna of the school where the teacher taught was the first to accuse him of sexual misconduct during online and physical classes. The allegations went viral on Sunday. The following day, around 1,000 alumni of the school wrote to the management seeking immediate action. The alumni expressed disappointment that the school had not taken action despite complaints against the teacher, who taught at the school for over 20 years.Also Read | TN govt seeks ban on Family Man-2 web seriesThe school denied having received complaints but said that it would look into the allegations and suspended the teacher.Students have complained that the teacher would crack inappropriate jokes about the body parts of women and show up in a towel wrapped around his waist for the online classes. He also allegedly asked a student to watch a movie with him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chennai-school-teacher-arrested-over-sexual-harassment-complaints-101621933870302.html
25-05-2021||India||Post-poll violence: SC issues notice to Bengal government||The Supreme Court on Tuesday sought response from the West Bengal government and police on the post-poll violence in the state that reportedly resulted in mass exodus of lakhs of people, including women and children.Issuing notice on a petition filed by a Delhi-based social worker Arun Mukherjee and four others, a vacation bench of justices Vineet Saran and BR Gavai agreed to hear the matter in the week commencing June 7. By this date, the court has directed the state government and police to file counter affidavits, explaining the allegations of inaction by state authorities in curbing the violence. The petition accused the police of shielding the perpetrators alleged to be workers of the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) party and threatening the victims to withdraw their complaints.Appearing for the petitioners, senior advocate Pinky Anand told the court that several human rights bodies such as the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC), the National Commission for Women (NCW) and National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) had visited the victims and prepared reports on the trauma suffered by them. Anand made an oral request to the court to make the NHRC, NCW and NCPCR as parties to the petition and issue notice to them.The court allowed the request and added the NHRC, NCW, NCPCR, the National Commission for Scheduled Castes and National Commission for Scheduled Tribes as parties.The petition claimed that on May 2, soon after declaration of the assembly poll results, widespread incidents of loot, rape and murder took place where families of Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP) were targeted. Lead petitioner Mukherjee, who runs a social organisation catering to welfare of Bengali community across the country, received several distress calls from affected families in the state. Fearing for their life, many families left the state leaving their homes and livelihood behind. The displaced families were settled in camps in Assam. Also Read | Provide ration, meals to migrants, Supreme Court tells statesThe petitioners requested for a Special Investigation Team (SIT) to be set up to register the cases and probe the complicity of the state agencies. “The attacks suggest a larger conspiracy to crush the political opposition and their supporters in the state,” the petition stated, referring to the victims being families associated or working for the BJP. In addition, it demanded an inquiry commission to assess the scale and causes behind such large-scale displacement. The petition further sought long-term relief by way of rehabilitation of the displaced persons, compensation for loss of family members, property, livelihood, and for the mental and emotional agony suffered by them. As the families have been surviving in harsh conditions in the camp during times of a pandemic, the petition requested for directions from court to provide food, medicines, pandemic resources, and appropriate medical facilities in the light of Covid-19 pandemic . According to the data gathered by the petitioners, people from Cooochbehar, Kamakhyaguri, Tufanganj, Alpiurdaur, Falimari, Rampur villages in Bengal took shelter at refugee camps in Rangapali and Srirampur in Assam. The Union government is also party to the petition. The petition asked the court to consider directing the Centre for using its power under Article 355 of the Constitution and pass executive orders to ensure rule of law in the state. “The respondents by way of their action/inaction have led to a condition where rule of law no longer prevails in Bengal, democracy has been murdered, fundamental rights are breached, fascism and humanitarian crisis has arrived,” the petition stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/postpoll-violence-sc-issues-notice-to-bengal-government-101621933750857.html
25-05-2021||India||Covid: Daily recoveries outnumber new cases in Maharashtra's Aurangabad district||The daily count of Covid-19 recoveries has outnumbered the fresh infections in the last one month in Maharashtra's Aurangabad district, an official said on Tuesday. The district on Monday (May 24) recorded 326 Covid-19 cases, which is a marked decline from April 24, when it saw 1,497 new infections, the official said. The present Covid-19 positivity rate stands at 4.75 per cent, and there are 5,284 active cases in the district, he said. At least 23,249 people tested positive for the infection from April 24 to May 24, and 31,473 were discharged from hospitals after recovery in this period, the official said. The district has so far recorded 1,40,737 infections, including 1,32,361 recoveries and 3,092 deaths, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-daily-recoveries-outnumber-new-cases-in-maharashtra-s-aurangabad-district-101621932283794.html
25-05-2021||India||'Sputnik V vaccine supplies in accordance to contract,' says Russia||Various Indian states are requesting Russia to supply doses of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccine Sputnik V to them and these requests are being studied "very carefully", Russian deputy envoy to India Roman Babushkin said, according to news agency ANI.Sputnik V, considered the world's first registered vaccine against Covid-19, was being exported according to the "contract obligations," the Russian deputy envoy added."Supplies of Sputnik V are going on according to the contract obligations and schedules. We are getting some more requests from other Indian companies and state governments and all proposals are being studied very carefully," he said.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageOn Monday, the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) and Panacea Biotec, one of the leading pharmaceutical producers in India launched the production of the Sputnik V Covid-19 vaccine."Sputnik V is one of the vaccines which is included in the Indian mass vaccination drive and it speaks for itself. This company (Panacea Biotec) is one of the Indian partners which the Russian Direct Investment Fund and is developing a business partnership. The preliminary schedule is gradually is to reach 850 million doses in India per year. We know that there is interest from other business partners and even state governments, all these proposals we are studying very carefully," the envoy said.Also Read | Full-scale production of Sputnik V in India this summer: Russian developersHighlighting how "helpful" Russia's second single-dose vaccine 'Sputnik lite' would be for India, the envoy said, "As you know, the other Russian vaccine is very reliable. We say the Russians are reliable like Kalashnikovs because they are based on the technologies which are used for decades. As far as Sputnik lite is concerned, it is going through the third phase of clinical trials. We believe that the vaccine will be in production here because India is one of the leaders in the world in terms of the capacity of medicine production is a matter of shortest time."The Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) approved Sputnik V vaccine's usage in India April 12, and vaccination against coronavirus with the Russian vaccine started on May 14.This was the India's third vaccine against Covid-19, with the country already administering Covishield - the Oxford-Astrazeneca vaccine manufactured by the Serum Institute of India - and Bharat Biotech's Covaxin to its people.(With ANI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sputnik-v-vaccine-supplies-in-accordance-to-contract-says-russia-101621919927490.html
25-05-2021||India||Afghan forces rescue 41 people from Taliban prison in Herat||Afghan forces rescued 41 people, including 19 security force members, from a Taliban prison in western Herat province on Monday night, the Special Operations Corps said in a statement, reported TOLOnews.The operation was launched in Marwa village of Pashtun Zarghon district of the province, the statement said, adding that "seven Taliban terrorists who were the prison keepers were killed during the operation.""The forces have also seized weapons during the operation and destroyed six motorcycles belonging to the Taliban," it said.Eight security force members were freed from a Taliban prison in an operation in northern Baghlan on Sunday night, the Ministry of Defense had said.The operation was launched in Amarkhil village of Baghlan-e-Jadid and the security force members who had been taken captive were released, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/afghan-forces-rescue-41-people-from-taliban-prison-in-herat-101621931540931.html
25-05-2021||India||Aim to comply, discussing issues: Facebook on new social media guidelines||Facebook on Tuesday said it is working to comply with the rules notified in February to govern the online content and was discussing the provisions that “need more engagement” with the government even as the deadline for compliance is due to end on Tuesday. The company underlined it remains committed to people’s ability to freely and safely express themselves on the platformThe rules allow users to dispute action taken against them by social media intermediaries such as Facebook and Twitter and setting up a three-tier self-regulatory framework for so-called over the top (OTT) platforms like Amazon Prime and online news media entities.“We aim to comply with the provisions of the IT [Information Technology] rules and continue to discuss a few of the issues which need more engagement with the government. Pursuant to the IT Rules, we are working to implement operational processes and improve efficiencies,” a Facebook spokesperson said.The statement came a day after electronics and information technology ministry officials warned of stern action in case of non-compliance with the new guidelines such as appointments of chief compliance and grievance officers by social media intermediaries.An official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, said so far none of the prominent significant social media intermediaries have sent the government any intimation of such appointments. “It is not necessary they inform the ministry. They can even furnish the details on the website. Either way, they have to comply,” the official said. “The rules were notified on February 25 and social media intermediaries have been given three months to comply.”Also Read | WhatsApp won’t limit users’ accessThe policy also includes bringing digital news publishers under the ambit of Section 69(A) of the Information Technology (IT) Act. The provision empowers the government to order the blocking of access to content that is considered a threat to public order. An officer, who will head an inter-ministerial committee at the apex of the self-regulatory system, can also issue this order under emergency circumstances where the companies will not be given a chance for explanation. The committee will have to meet within 48 hours to ratify the emergency block.The rules mandate increased due diligence by social media companies and data sharing, such as information about the first originator, with enforcement agencies. They define significant social media intermediaries as platforms that have five million users or above.Under part four of the guidelines, the intermediaries are required to appoint compliance officers, “responsible for ensuring compliance with the Act and rules” and be “liable in any proceedings relating to any relevant third-party information, data or communication link made available or hosted by that intermediary where he fails to ensure that such intermediary observes due diligence while discharging its duties under the Act”.Intermediaries are also required to appoint nodal contact persons for 24x7 coordination with law enforcement agencies and resident grievance officers.A second official said as soon as the rules were notified, they became a legal framework. “According to part seven of the new guidelines, if the intermediary does not follow the rules, it is liable for punishment under Indian law, as section 79 of the [IT] Act will no longer apply.” Section 79 provided the intermediaries “safe habour” which is the exemption from punishment for third-party content posted on their websites.“Where an intermediary fails to observe these rules, the provisions of sub-section (1) of section 79 of the Act shall not be applicable to such intermediary and the intermediary shall be liable for punishment under any law for the time being in force including the provisions of the Act and the Indian Penal Code,” says the part seven.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aim-to-comply-discussing-issues-facebook-on-new-social-media-guidelines-101621931890713.html
25-05-2021||India||Beef ban, nod to liquor sale: Lakshadweep protests as Praful Patel approves new reforms||A public outcry was sparked in Lakshwadweep over a slew of reforms announced by the new administration led by Bharatiya Janata Party's Praful Patel. The BJP leader, appointed as the administrator of Lakshadweep in December 2020, is facing opposition over policies introduced by him from the people of the Union territory and politicians, both from within Lakshadweep and the neighbouring state of Kerala.Since taking over as Lakshadweep’s administrator, Patel has been making tweaks in the local administration. However, locals have termed the reforms as "anti-people" in Lakshwadeep, which largely has a Muslim population and is heavily dependent on fishing.Patel’s reformsPatel introduced a proposal to implement the anti-social Activities Regulation bill, 2021, or the goonda act in the island territory where the crime rate is already very low. Locals fear that bill will pave the way for the administration to arrest without a trial and feel that such harsh laws are not required. The government also took over the control of the local administrative powers of elected Zilla panchayat regarding-- education, health care, agriculture, animal husbandry and fisheries.The new proposal will also bring changes in panchayat regulations and will make any person with more than two children ineligible to contest panchayat elections. He also gave a nod to open liquor bars in the island, a non-alcoholic zone due to its Muslim population, to promote tourism; a beef ban and eliminating non-vegetarian food from the menu of Anganwadi children.Kerala lawmaker Hibi Eden, in his letter to the Centre, also claimed that the many government contract employees in the tourism sector were terminated without any reason. "Majority of the 70000 people in this Island depend on fishing and government services, but the new administration demolished huts of fisherman accusing Coastal Regulation Zone (CRZ) violation," he wrote in the letter to President Ram Nath Kovind, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah.Patel has also diverted all cargo to Mangalore by ending a long-lasting trade relation between the island and Beypore port of Kerala, the neighbouring state.Call for recallThe issue has garnered support from various opposition parties in Lakshadweep and Kerala, as well as from people on social media. Lakshadweep lawmaker and NCP's Mohammed Faizal and his colleagues from neighbouring Kerala—TN Prathapan (Congress), Elamaram Kareem (CPI-M) and ET Mohammed Basheer (Muslim League) have also urged the Centre to recall Patel.On Monday, Congress general secretary KC Venugopal wrote a letter to the President alleging that the current administrator of Lakshadweep Praful Patel had taken "authoritarian measures" and demanded his recall. Venugopal said that there is apprehension among the people of Lakshadweep and resultant widespread protests "owing to the authoritarian measures taken by the current Administrator Praful Patel".However, the Centre has dubbed the criticism as a result of Patel's efforts to end "corrupt practices" involving local politicians prevalent and usher in development there.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/beef-ban-nod-to-liquor-sale-lakshadweep-protests-as-praful-patel-approves-new-reforms-101621931021124.html
25-05-2021||India||Covid-positive Buddhadeb Bhattacharya admitted to hospital as condition deteriorates||The condition of former West Bengal chief minister Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee deteriorated on Tuesday, news agency PTI reported. The 77-year-old tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) last week.The politician was being treated at home but after his oxygen level slipped below 90 per cent this morning, he was rushed to the hospital on advise of doctors, said officials.Bhattacharya, one of the most senior leaders of the CPI(M), has been suffering from Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD) for more than a decade. His movements are restricted.His wife Mira Bhattacharya, who also tested Covid-19 positive, was discharged from a private hospital in south Kolkata on Monday. She was admitted on May 18.Bhattacharya was admitted to hospital in October last year after he complained of breathlessness and low oxygen count in the blood. At that time, he was put on ventilator.A 13-member medical board was also formed for his treatment. The CPI(M) leader had tested negative for COvid-19 at that time.Bhattacharya was the chief minister of West Bengal from 2000 to 2011.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-bengal-cm-buddhadeb-bhattacharjee-s-health-condition-worsens-hospitalised-101621929791543.html
25-05-2021||India||Malayalam actor Unni Dev arrested in wife’s suicide case in Kerala||The Kerala Police on Tuesday arrested Malayalam actor Unni Dev in connection with his wife Priyanka’s death by alleged suicide at her house in Vembayam in Thiruvananthapuram district last week. A day before her death she had filed a police complaint against Unni Dev under the domestic violence act.Soon after her death, her family members alleged foul play and claimed she was tortured for dowry. They said Priyanka had bruises all over her body and she was forced to leave her husband’s flat in Kochi. They demanded that her husband and his relatives were booked for abetment to suicide. Unni and Priyanka, a physical education teacher, got married in 2019. Priyanka’s relatives said they used to fight frequently during the Covid-19 induced lockdown last year, when he allegedly started selling off her gold.Son of Malayalam actor late Raja P Dev, known in the south for his negative roles, Unni Dev started his career in television serials and later featured in many movies in minor roles. A senior police officer of Vattapara police station on the outskirts of Thiruvananthapuram said he will be charged with abetment to suicide, domestic violence and other relevant charges of the Indian Penal code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/malayalam-actor-unni-dev-arrested-in-wife-s-suicide-case-in-kerala-101621929430332.html
25-05-2021||India||SC issues notice to WB govt on plea seeking humanitarian relief for people displaced due to alleged post-poll violence||The Supreme Court on Tuesday issued a notice to the West Bengal government on a plea seeking humanitarian relief for people displaced due to the alleged violence in the state which took place after results of the assembly elections were announced earlier this month.A bench of justices Vineet Saran and BR Gavai issued the notice based on the petition filed by a social worker named Arun Mukherjee and four others.The top court also allowed the National Human Rights Commission of India (NHRC), the National Commission for Scheduled Castes (NCSC), the National Commission for Scheduled Tribes (NCST), the National Commission for Women (NCW) and the National Commission for Protection of Child Right (NCPCR) to be made parties to the petition, the hearing of which will take place next on June 7.Based on the request by senior advocate Pinky Anand, appearing for the petitioners, the rights bodies have been added as parties to the case as they have prepared reports on the trauma faced by women and children due to the violence.Earlier in the day, the NCW sent a notice to the Director General of Police (DGP), West Bengal, and asked him to appear before the body at 12.30pm on May 31. It has also asked for the action taken on crimes against women from April 1, due to the post poll violence in the state, news agency ANI reported.The ruling Trinamool Congress has claimed that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is spreading fake news on social media and is inciting violence in the state. “Despite a crushing defeat, BJP has no shame left in them and is inciting violence using its fake news machinery,” the party had tweeted earlier on May 6 regarding the BJP’s allegations.Counting of votes for the West Bengal assembly election was done on May 2, 2021, following which many reports of alleged post-poll violence emerged in the state due to the clashes between the supporters of the TMC and the BJP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-issues-notice-to-bengal-govt-on-plea-seeking-humanitarian-relief-for-people-displaced-due-to-alleged-post-poll-violence-101621927673906.html
25-05-2021||India||UK starts preparations for trade negotiations with India||The UK on Tuesday started preparations for a trade deal with India, launching a 14-week consultation process to seek the views of the public and businesses ahead of negotiations on a free trade agreement set to begin in the autumn.UK trade secretary Liz Truss kicked off the preparations for the trade deal, under which Britain wants the removal of barriers to doing business and trading with India, including the removal of tariffs of up to 150% on whisky and 125% on British-made cars.The UK government is seeking input from consumers and businesses across all sectors that will help it craft a deal that includes closer cooperation in future-focused industries such as science, technology and services and creating high-value jobs across Britain.The UK also wants to make it easier for British services firms to operate in India, thereby boosting the country’s status as an international services hub. India’s growing middle-income population and connected youth will be the target consumers for goods and services from the UK.Truss said, “We’re firing the starting gun on a free trade deal with India – the world’s largest democracy, fifth biggest economy, a nation of 1.4 billion people and a huge market for British goods like whisky, cars and services.“We want an agreement that pushes new frontiers in industries of the future and helps us build a greener, more innovative and more services-led economy that will deliver higher-paying jobs across the country.”Also Read | India-UK pact tackles illegal migration in both countries, says Priti PatelDuring a virtual summit between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his UK counterpart Boris Johnson on May 4, the two countries launched an Enhanced Trade Partnership that envisages facilitating market access in specific sectors, and unveiled plans to finalise an interim trade deal by mid-2022 as a precursor to a free trade agreement.The Enhanced Trade Partnership, part of the UK’s efforts to ramp up trade ties with countries around the world following its exit from the European Union (EU), will see Britain open up its fisheries sector to more Indian players, facilitate more opportunities for nurses, recognise Indian seafarers’ certificates and enter into a joint dialogue on a social security agreement.In return, India lifted restrictions to enable British fruit producers to export their produce to the country and improved access for medical devices through the acceptance of “UK Certificates of Free Sale”. The two sides will also work towards reciprocal opening up of legal services.These actions are likely to generate some 25,000 new direct and indirect jobs in India, officials have said.UK international trade minister Ranil Jayawardena said a trade deal with India will break down barriers and make it easier for British businesses to sell their goods, as well as secure more investments, higher wages and lower prices in Britain.Before the negotiations start, the UK and India must complete a “pre-negotiation scoping phase” or a period of engagement with businesses and the public. The UK’s public consultation, which runs till August 31, includes a questionnaire that will gather information from participants about their experiences and priorities when doing business with India.India-UK trade was worth £23 billion in 2019, and both countries want to double the figure by 2030. Almost half a million jobs are supported across India and the UK through investments in each other’s economies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uk-starts-preparationa-for-trade-negotiations-with-india-101621927930631.html
25-05-2021||India||Tripura hotel turns into first private Covid care centre||A private hotel in Tripura has been converted into a paid Covid care centre, becoming the first of its kind facility in the state, grappling with rising number of infections.Tripura’s West district administration issued a notification declaring Ginger Hotel in Agartala a private Covid care centre. 24x7 healthcare services at the centre will be provided by a private nursing home named Divine Touch Medi-clinic. It will initially have 30-50 beds including 10 oxygenated ones.For a single room, patients will be charged ₹3,500; Rs. 4,000 for single occupancy in a double room and Rs. 5,000 for double occupancy in a double room. The rates include cost of food and water. Medicines, oxygen, investigation etc will cost extra.“... . under the Epidemic Disease Act , 1897 and Disaster Management Act , 2005, do hereby declare the Ginger Hotel as Paid Covid Care Centre”, the notification signed by West district magistrate Raval Hamendra Kumar reads.The Covid-care centre in-charge has been asked to submit daily reports to the chief medical officer of West district while the chief medical officer will soon nominate a medical officer to monitor the centre.Tripura currently has 7535 active Covid cases, with the total number of cases crossing 46,099 including 462 deaths related to the disease so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-hotel-turns-into-first-private-covid-care-centre-101621927870127.html
25-05-2021||India||News updates from HT: Obscure US firm offers $500 billion investment in India and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Humble appeal to beloved PM Modi: Obscure firm offers to invest $500 bnA little-known company based in the US has made a “Humble Appeal to our Beloved and Hon'ble Prime Minister”, saying it wants to invest $500 billion in equity into India's National Infrastructure Pipeline (NIP). Read moreIllegal phone tapping: Mumbai Police record Rashmi Shukla’s statement in HyderabadThe Mumbai cyber police have recorded the statement of Indian Police Service (IPS) officer Rashmi Shukla in connection with the alleged illegal phone tapping and confidential report leak. Read moreOdisha starts massive evacuation drive ahead of cyclone Yaas landfallOdisha has started a massive evacuation exercise in the coastal districts ahead of Cyclone Yaas’ arrival by Wednesday noon. Read more‘Even Kohli knew that if I bat on, we will win’; Suryakuamar ‘happy’ to be sledged by Virat in IPL 2020Indian batsman Suryakumar Yadav recently recalled an incident from Indian Premier League (IPL) 2020 in which he was sledged by Royal Challengers Bangalore (RCB) skipper Virat Kohli. Read more2021 Triumph Bonneville Bobber launched in India. Price & specifications hereTriumph Motorcycles India on Tuesday launched the all-new 2021 Bonneville Bobber at ₹11.75 lakh (ex-showroom). The new Bobber brings forward a range of significant updates inside out. Read more‘Let your mind wander’: Nasa’s latest share showcases unexplored galaxies light years away from Earth‘Are we really alone in this vast universe?’- This question may have popped up in your mind while looking up at the star-studded night sky. We may not be experts in this matter but trust Nasa to expand your horizon of thinking with their latest share featuring a galaxy cluster far away from our Earth. Read moreCovid: Uttar Pradesh resident infected with black, white & yellow fungusAfter cases of black and white fungus being reported from across the country, now a case of yellow fungus has been detected in man from Uttar Pradesh’s Ghaziabad. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-obscure-us-firm-offers-usd-500-billion-investment-in-india-and-all-the-latest-news-101621926676159.html
25-05-2021||India||Odisha starts massive evacuation drive ahead of cyclone Yaas landfall||Odisha has evacuated nearly 60,000 villagers from the coastal districts by Tuesday afternoon ahead of Cyclone Yaas’ arrival on Wednesday. Authorities have been told to ensure adherence to Covid appropriate behaviour during the massive evacuation exercise keeping in mind the high prevalence of Covid-19 in the coastal areasState’s special relief commissioner Pradip Jena said district collectors have been asked to finish evacuation from the four coastal districts of Balasore, Bhadrak, Kendrapara and Jagatsinghpur, by Tuesday afternoon. These districts are likely to face the maximum brunt of the cyclone as per the weather forecast. He added that arrangements have been made to accommodate up to 750,000 evacuaees in 7,000 shelters prepared for the purposed.“Zero casualty is the motto. We are leaving no stone unturned for saving lives,” Jena said. Close to 6,500 pregnant women due to deliver before June 1 are also being moved to hospitals. Jena said 10 senior IAS and IPS officers have been sent to the 4 coastal districts and Mayurbhanj to supervise relief, rehabilitation and restoration measures in the wake of the cyclone.As per the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD), cyclone Yaas developed into a severe cyclonic storm over east-central Bay of Bengal and is moving north-northwestwards about 360 km south-southeast of Paradip and 460 km south-southeast of Balasore.“It is expected to intensify into a very severe cyclonic storm on May 26 and cross the coast somewhere near Chandbali in Bhadrak district with wind speed of 155-165 km per hour accompanied by gusts of 185 km per hour. The impact of Cyclone Yaas will be high 6 hours before and after the landfall. Big trees & electric poles may get uprooted. Chandbali is likely to witness maximum damage due to the cyclone,” said IMD director general Mrutyunjay Mohapatra.Mohapatra said sea tide would be as high as 4-5 metres above the mean sea level during the period and heavy to very heavy rainfall up to 300 mm was expected on May 26. He added that the thatched houses, asbestos roofs and even old pucca buildings in the four coastal districts were likely to get impacted the most, while big trees including palm and coconut may get uprooted.The arrival of the cyclone in Odisha coincides with the surge in Covid-19 cases in several areas. Coastal districts such as Balasore and Bhadrak that would be in the eye of the cyclone are reporting a TPR over 30%.Chief minister Naveen Patnaik has asked people and officials to be mindful of the twin challenges of Covid-19 pandemic and the cyclone.“...Now the government is ready to tackle both Covid and Cyclone Yaas situations. Your cooperation will strengthen our preparedness for the impending cyclone amid the prevailing pandemic situation,” he said.In Balasore, which falls in the projected path of cyclone Yaas, people have been advised to keep drinking water for at least four days and those living under thatched houses have been advised to move to nearby cyclone relief centres.On ground, functionaries of Panchayati Raj institutions said they are finding it difficult to ensure Covid appropriate behaviour at shelters. “As there is no cyclone shelter nearby, we have identified 4 schools to house people with kutcha houses. But maintaining social distance may not be possible in those centres considering the number of people,” said Manjurani Behera of Maheshpur gram panchayat in Bhograi block of coastal Balasore.Behera said as the sea will be in spate on May 26 due to the full moon and tidal surge may cause big damage.Of the 1.09 lakh active Covid cases in the state, the four coastal districts of Balasore, Bhadrak, Kendrapara and Jagatsinghpur have more than 10,000 Covid patients. Though more than 85% of them are in home isolation, shifting them to cyclone shelters is fraught with risk. The weekly positivity rate (May 15 to 21) in Bhadrak (39.4%) and Balasore (35.1%), the two districts in the path of the cyclone, is the highest in the state while districts like Khurda, Cuttack and Jajpur too have positivity rate above 20%.“We are trying to keep Covid positive people separate in shelters. Everyone in such centres would be given free masks. Besides, medicines and water are being kept in readiness,” said SRC Pradip Jena, adding that extra oxygen cylinders, medicines, drinking water and food for at least three days are being planned at hospitals.Meanwhile 52 NDRF teams have been deployed for post cyclone rescue and relief operations. Similarly, 50 to 60 ODRAF teams and 175 to 200 fire tenders have been kept ready for coordinated rescue and relief operations. At least 35 tree cutting teams have been kept ready. Similarly, 165 teams from the public works department and 165 teams from the rural development department have been formed for cyclone management.Odisha last faced a cyclone in May 2019 when Cyclone Fani ripped through coastal Puri, Khurda and Cuttack districts with wind speed of 200 kilometres per hour, killing 64 people and affecting about 16.5 million people in over 18,000 villages. It damaged an estimated 360,000 houses.In 2018, Cyclone Titli killed 77 people, destroyed 260,000 hectare of agricultural land, over 60,000 houses, and killed more than 35,000 domestic animals.In 2013, Cyclone Phailin wreaked havoc in the state affecting over 1.1 million people and causing damages worth ₹4,240 crore.Between 1891 and 2021, over 100 tropical cyclones have lashed Odisha — the highest among other coastal states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-starts-massive-evacuation-drive-ahead-of-cyclone-yaas-landfall-101621926251284.html
25-05-2021||India||'Sushil Kumar seemed nervous, changed statements during interrogation': Police||A team of Delhi Police's Crime Branch took Olympic medallist Sushil Kumar, the prime accused in the alleged murder case of wrestler Sagar Dhankar, and his associate Ajay Bakkarwala to three locations in Delhi--Model Town, Shalimar Bagh, and Chhatrasal Stadium-- connected with the incident.As per Delhi Police sources, when the police was questioning the wrestler at the said places, Sushil was seemingly nervous and was changing his statement repeatedly."The Crime Branch team is investigating the matter from every angle including who helped Sushil Kumar while he was absconding. Police took Kumar and Ajay to Chhatrasal Stadium where the fight took place. The second location was the flat in Model Town from where Sushil and his companions brought Sagar Dhankhar and Sonu to Chhatrasal Stadium. The third location was the flat in Shalimar Bagh where Sushil used to live," sources told ANI.They said the police questioned Sushil at these locations and tried to know who else was present with him during the course of the events on May 4 and May 5. They said that police also tried to verify the video in which wrestler Sagar Dhankar could be seen being beaten by two-time Olympic medallist Sushil Kumar.Also Read | Sushil Kumar cried in lock-up, was up all night: Police"Sushil confessed to being in the Chhatrasal Stadium and said he tried to be a mediator between the two groups that were fighting. However, he did not confess to bringing Sagar Dhankhar and Sonu from the Model Town flat. When the police was questioning Sushil at these places, he was getting nervous and was changing his statement repeatedly," the sources added.Sources also informed that forensic experts are reaching Model Town police station to examine the vehicles used by Kumar and they will also visit Chhatrasal Stadium to collect the evidence.Delhi Police on Monday said the Delhi Police Crime Branch will investigate the case related to the Chhatrasal Stadium brawl that led to the alleged murder of a 23-year-old wrestler Sagar.The Special Cell of Delhi Police on Sunday arrested Sushil Kumar, who was absconding accused in the murder case of wrestler Sagar Dhankar, along with his associate Ajay, who was allegedly helping the wrestler while on the run.A Delhi Court on the same day granted six days of police custody of Sushil Kumar. A non-bailable warrant was issued against 38-year-old Sushil and others in the case relating to the alleged killing of the 23-year-old wrestler.According to the police, Sushil while absconding crossed the borders of as many as seven states and union territories during the last 18 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sushil-kumar-seemed-nervous-changed-statements-during-interrogation-police-101621925411756.html
25-05-2021||India||Cyclone Yaas: Indian Navy ramps up preparations, deploys rescue, relief teams||With Cyclone Yaas predicted to make landfall on the eastern coast on May 26 and likely to hit parts of Odisha and West Bengal, the Indian Navy on Tuesday said it has ramped up rescue and relief operations to minimise damages."INS Netaji Subhas is spearheading the Indian Naval's relief effort at West Bengal and is in close coordination with the State Government of West Bengal for preparations for Cyclone Yaas, which is scheduled to make landfall between Odisha and West Bengal coast on May 26", informed an official release by the Indian Navy.As part of the preparation, two Navy Diving Teams and five flood relief teams, comprising of specialized Navy personnel with associated equipment and inflatable boats, have been deployed.One diving and two flood relief teams each, have been positioned at Digha and Frazerganj, both in West Bengal on May 23 and May 24 respectively.One flood relief team has been kept on standby at Diamond Harbour, for redeployment as necessary, at short notice. These teams are equipped to undertake casualty evacuation of stranded/ marooned personal, road clearing/ tree cutting operations, and distribution of relief material, as would be required by the local district administration.In addition, the Indian Navy is also positioning Humanitarian Assistance and Disaster Relief (HADR) material for about 500 people at its depot Centre at Kolkata, for subsequent distribution if required, in the aftermath of the Cyclone. Four Indian Navy Ships, loaded with HADR material, medical teams and additional diving teams, would also closely follow the Cyclone and be available for rendering further assistance.Naval Helicopters from onboard the INS ships, Medium-Range Maritime Patrol (MRMP) aircraft at Visakhapatnam as well as Long Range Maritime Patrol (LRMP) aircraft at Arrakkonam (Tamil Nadu) are also standby for deployment at short notice in the aftermath of the Cyclone for casualty evacuation, aerial survey and airdrop of relief material, based on requests from the State Government, as required.Meanwhile, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) today predicted that the cyclonic storm Yaas is going to intensity into a 'very severe cyclonic storm' in the next 12 hours."The severe cyclonic storm Yaas over east-central Bay of Bengal moved north-northwestwards with a speed of about 9 kmph during past six hours and lay centred at 9 UTC of May 24 over east-central Bay of Bengal," IMD said in its bulletin."It is very likely to move north-northwestwards, intensify further into a very severe cyclonic storm during next 12 hours. It would continue to move north-northwestwards, intensify further and reach northwest Bay of Bengal near North Odisha and West Bengal coasts by May 26 early morning," the weather agency said.Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik has urged the people living in the coastal regions of Odisha to cooperate with the local administration and shift to cyclone shelters. Addressing the people of the state yesterday, the CM also asked them to adhere to Covid-19 protocols and wear two masks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-yaas-indian-navy-ramps-up-preparations-deploys-rescue-relief-teams-101621924243767.html
25-05-2021||India||Odisha braces for Cyclone Yaas, issues red alert for 4 districts||Several districts in Odisha were on Tuesday placed on high alert as the India Meteorological Department (IMD) issued warnings for extremely heavy rains ahead of Cyclone Yaas’ landfall. A red alert was issued for Kendrapara, Bhadrak, Jagatsinghpur and Balasore districts for Tuesday and Wednesday. “We have issued the highest danger warning for Dhamra and Paradip ports,” IMD Bhubaneswar said.For Mayurbhanj, Jajpur, Cuttack, Khorda and Puri, IMD issued an orange alert for Tuesday as the weather department predicted heavy to very heavy rainfall. Wind speeds of 150-160kmph gusting 180kmph are expected as Cyclone Yaas, which is brewing in the Bay of Bengal, may make landfall by the afternoon on Wednesday, IMD also said.Thousands of locals were evacuated as Cyclone Yaas is set to make landfall days after Cyclone Tauktae, which was also of similar intensity, killed more than 100 people in the country’s western coastal states. "Cyclone Yaas is very likely to cross north Odisha-West Bengal coasts between Paradip and Sagar Island around Balasore, during noon of Wednesday, the 26th May as a Very Severe Cyclonic Storm," IMD said in its bulletin.Click here to track live updates of cyclone YaasMeanwhile, Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik directed the state's home minister to reach Balasore and remain there to monitor the situation ahead of the 'very severe cyclonic storm.' He also urged people living in the coastal regions of Odisha to cooperate with the local administration and shift to cyclone shelters. As the cyclone crisis coincided with the Covid-19 pandemic situation, complicating the rescue work, the Odisha chief minister also asked the state residents to adhere to Covid-19 protocols and wear two masks.In terms of preparedness, more than 800 Odisha Disaster Rapid Action Force (ODRAF) personnel are in a high state of readiness for Cyclone Yaas. On Monday, the state government prepared a list of high-risk districts and assigned them to senior officers to supervise relief, rehabilitation and restoration work. The Indian Air Force and Indian Navy have also kept helicopters and vessels ready for the relief and rescue work.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-braces-for-cyclone-yaas-issues-red-alert-for-4-districts-101621916048927.html
25-05-2021||India||Daily Covid-19 cases in India fall below 2-lakh mark after 40 days||India crossed a significant milestone on Tuesday, when it recorded 1,96,427 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in a 24-hour span. The number of daily cases have fallen below two lakh-mark after 40 days, the Union health ministry said.India had registered 1,84,372 new coronavirus infections on April 14.The country also reported the lowest death toll in 21 days with 3,511 fresh fatalities, the health ministry data updated at 8am showed. The fresh fatalities include 592 from Maharashtra, 529 from Karnataka, 404 from Tamil Nadu, 207 from Delhi, 196 from Kerala, 187 from Punjab, 153 each from Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal, 122 from Uttarakhand and 103 from Rajasthan.The active cases further reduced to 25,86,782, which is now 9.60 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate has improved to 89.26 per cent.India’s daily recoveries continue to outnumber the daily new cases of the infection for the 12th consecutive day. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 2,40,54,861, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.14 per cent, the data stated.India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16 last year. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19 last year. India crossed the grim milestone of 2 crore on May 4, 2021.According to Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), 33,25,94,176 samples have been tested up to May 24 with 20,58,112 samples being tested on Monday.Meanwhile, the cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered to beneficiaries has reached 19,85,38,999, the health ministry said. It also said that 12.82 lakh vaccination doses were administered for 18-44 age group in last 24 hours.This is the highest since May 1 when the liberalised pricing and accelerated national Covid-19 vaccination strategy was implemented, the ministry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/daily-covid-19-cases-in-india-fall-below-2-lakh-mark-after-40-days-101621922974259.html
25-05-2021||India||Goa’s Mandovi river was cleaner during lockdown months, study confirms||The water quality of Goa’s Mandovi river showed significant improvement during the Covid-19 lockdown in 2020 thanks to a steep reduction in human activity, a National Institute of Oceanography study has found. The midstream sections of the river that usually show a high proportion of coloured dissolved organic matter (CDOM) were found to be clearer by almost two folds, it added.“The concentration of dissolved nutrients in 2020 was also low compared to the previous reports. There was a complete standstill of anthropogenic activities such as operating pleasure cruises, water transport systems like barges, shipbuilding activities, and commercial establishments following the government-imposed lockdown, which might have reduced the CDOM and nutrients in the estuary,” the research said.Also Read | EU leaders set for spat over distribution of carbon-cut burdenThe lockdown provided the first-ever opportunity to study the water column characteristics of Mandovi Estuary when most of the anthropogenic activities were either stopped or reduced drastically. The water quality of the Mandovi is known to be poor because of bacterial presence and dissolved oxygen.The presence of CDMO is one of the parameters to examine water quality.The researchers carried out sampling in the Mandovi Estuary in early May 2020 during the phased lockdown opening to compare the CDOM absorption during the spring inter-monsoon (March–May) of 2014–2018 with that of 2020 when the anthropogenic activities were minimal.The 81-kilometre long Mandovi river originates in Karnataka and along with its tributaries irrigates over half of Goa’s cultivable area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goas-mandovi-river-was-cleaner-during-lockdown-months-study-confirms-101621922890343.html
25-05-2021||India||After Delhi Police’s visit to Twitter office, Rahul Gandhi tweets about truth||Day after the Delhi Police sent a notice to Twitter India in connection with the probe into a complaint about the alleged 'COVID toolkit', Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday tweeted about truth. The Delhi Police said on Monday they have sought a clarification from Twitter in connection with a tweet by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Sambit Patra about an alleged toolkit released by the Congress party that the microblogging site tagged as “manipulated media.” According to Twitter, it "may label tweets that include media (videos, audio, and images) that have been deceptively altered or fabricated"."Truth remains unafraid," Gandhi tweeted using the hashtag 'Toolkit’.Truth remains unafraid. सत्य डरता नहीं।#ToolkitDelhi Police officers also visited Twitter’s offices in south Delhi and Gurugram on Monday evening to secure the participation of Twitter’s managing director Manish Maheshwari as part of the probe.Also watch: Cops search Twitter's offices over Congress toolkit row, say reportsThe Congress on Monday alleged that the "cowardly raid" on the microblogging site's offices by the Delhi Police "exposes lame duck attempts" to hide a "fraudulent toolkit" by BJP leaders. “This is an effort to cover up the whole thing. The BJP hatched a conspiracy to cook up a forged document and they have been caught. Now they are trying to browbeat Twitter. They have no legal authority to do that,” Rajeev Gowda, who heads the Congress’s research department, said.Also read | BJP leader names ‘author’ of Congress ‘toolkit’The Delhi Police’s special cell has been conducting an inquiry into a complaint filed with the police chief and the Tughlak Road police station on May 18 by two Congress party leaders, seeking a first information report (FIR) against some BJP leaders for allegedly “forging documents, and circulating fabricated material on Twitter under the hashtag CongressToolkitExposed.” No FIR was registered till Monday evening in the matter, the police said. “Delhi Police is enquiring into a complaint in which clarification is sought from the Twitter regarding the classification of a tweet by Sambit Patra as manipulated. It appears that Twitter has some information which is not known to us on the basis of which they have classified it as such....” the Delhi Police said in a statement on Monday.Also read | Centre asks Twitter to drop manipulated media tag from ‘toolkit’ tweetsBJP’s Patra, in his tweet, released details of the Toolkit, a social media campaign playbook, that the Congress allegedly prepared to defame Prime Minister Modi and build a biased narrative over India’s management of Covid-19, and the Central Vista project.The opposition party, however, denied the allegation and claimed the BJP is propagating a fake 'toolkit' to defame it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-delhi-police-s-visit-to-twitter-office-rahul-gandhi-tweets-about-truth-101621921062132.html
25-05-2021||India||Delhi govt imports 6,000 oxygen cylinders from China as preparation for 3rd wave begins||The Delhi government has imported 6,000 oxygen cylinders from China, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal informed as he reviewed preparation for the third Covid-19 wave in the country. The "second wave in control, started prep for 3rd wave. Imported 6000 oxy cylinders," he wrote on Twitter on Monday."Can set up 3000 oxy beds with these," he added while thanking the central government for its assistance. "Grateful to HCL, Give India and Central govt (esp Indian embassy in Beijing) for helping us get these cylinders to Delhi. Many more preparations underway," Kejriwal also said.Second wave in control, started prep for 3rd wave. Imported 6000 oxy cylinders. Can set up 3000 oxy beds with these. Grateful to HCL, Give India and Central govt (esp Indian embassy in Beijing) for helping us get these cylinders to Delhi.Many more preps underway pic.twitter.com/RZGHObqKneAlong with the nation, Delhi was also reeling under the catastrophic second wave of the Covid-19. During this, the city's healthcare infrastructure was stretched to the limit as cases rose to unprecedented levels. It also led to the severe shortage of medical oxygen and hospital beds in the national capital.On Monday, Delhi recorded 1,550 fresh cases of Covid-19 and 207 fatalities, in a lowest single-day jump since March 27, when it logged 1,558 cases.It was also the second consecutive day when the number of daily infections was below the 2,000-mark. On Sunday, 1,649 people were found to be infected with Covid-19 in 24 hours.With cases falling steadily, the positivity rate in the city has improved to 2.52 per cent. At the time of the peak, the positivity rate had soared to above 30 per cent.It also recorded 207 fatalities in the last 24-hours. Delhi's death toll now stands at 23,409.On May 19, Delhi recorded 3,846 cases and 235 deaths and the numbers further dropped to 3,231 cases and 233 deaths on May 20. On May 21, the daily tally stood at, while 252 lost their lives.On May 22, it continued to fall further to 2,260 cases.The positivity rate was 5.5 per cent on Thursday and 4.76 per cent on Friday, slipping gradually to less than 4 per cent on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-govt-imports-6-000-oxygen-cylinders-from-china-as-preparation-for-3rd-wave-begins-101621921451404.html
25-05-2021||India||Patanjali Dairies head dies of Covid, company says had no role in his allopathic treatment||Sunil Bansal, who headed the dairy business of Yoga guru Ramdev's Patanjali Ayurved, died of COVID-19, the company said on Monday, adding it had no "role in his allopathic treatment."Bansal, 57, who was Vice President in the Dairy Division of Patanjali Ayurved Ltd, died on May 19.A specialist in dairy science, Bansal joined Patanjali's dairy business in January 2018 when the company announced its plans to sell packaged cow milk and other milk-based products including curd, buttermilk and cheese.Also Read | 'Shows maturity': Harsh Vardhan lauds Ramdev for withdrawing remarks on allopathy "He died of COVID-19 on May 19 in Rajasthan Hospital, Jaipur where his wife is a very senior health official of Government of Rajasthan," the Haridwar-based firm said in a statement.His death comes at a time when Ramdev is courting controversy over his comments about allopathic medicines and Covid-19. The statement too reflected that."Patanjali didn't have any role in his allopathic treatment which was largely coordinated by his wife," it said. "However we were concerned and used to ask for his well-being from his wife."On Sunday, Ramdev was forced to withdraw a statement made in a viral video clip in which he is heard saying that "lakhs have died from taking allopathic medicines for Covid-19."He is also heard questioning some of the medicines being used to treat the disease.The statement was met with vociferous protests from the doctors' association, following which Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan asked him to withdraw the "extremely unfortunate" statement."It's very unfortunate to have lost a young energetic colleague who was taskmaster," Patanjali said in the statement on Bansal's death.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/patanjali-dairies-head-dies-of-covid-company-says-had-no-role-in-his-allopathic-treatment-101621921113644.html
25-05-2021||India||Medical students stuck in India seek help to take exams in Bangladesh||Hundreds of Indian students enrolled in Bangladeshi medical colleges have been unable to return to Bangladesh for their exams as travel remains suspended between the two countries amid a surge in Covid-19 cases in India.“...authorities in Bangladesh suggested we go back to India after Bangladesh imposed a lockdown in March this year. Now as the situation has improved there, they are planning to conduct exams but are not allowing us back,” said Ammar Iqbal, a final year MBBS student at Bangladesh’s Monno Medical College.Many Indians have been enrolling in Bangladeshi medical colleges because of lower fees.Bangladesh has cited the new contagious Covid-19 variant as a reason for preventing Indian students from returning.Ifia Jan, another student, said Bangladesh was allowing back its citizens stuck in India. “Is there no fear of them carrying the new variant to Bangladesh?” Jan questioned. “We have already lost a year due to the previous lockdown. We cannot afford to delay our degree by a year again.”Also Read | Bangladesh appeals to world community for Covid-19 vaccine dosesShariar Nabi, the acting dean of Dhaka University, said thousands of students from across the world were enrolled in colleges affiliated to the varsity, and they cannot postpone the exams for just a few hundred Indian students. He added there was no official advisory to these students to leave the country and therefore they were not bound to wait for their return. “We need our thousands of final-year medical students to graduate as early as we can. There is a crisis of doctors here as well,” Nabi said. He added Bangladesh’s health ministry wanted the next batch of doctors as soon as possible.Muhammad Akhtar-Uz-Zaman, principal of the Monno Medical College, said the students have to appear in person for exams as the college has no provision for online exams. He added neither the Medical Council of Bangladesh nor India permits online medical exams. “Even if there was a provision, the Medical Council of India (MCI) would not entertain the degrees of these students as it does not allow online exams. The colleges here are recognised by MCI since many Indian students study here. We have to abide by MCI’s guidelines.”He added medical science as a subject demands subject knowledge that cannot be assessed online. “The final year students have to go through behavioural and diagnostic assessment which can only happen in hospitals where they are asked to examine patients. Therefore, online exams for such students are impossible.”Students said they were trying to reach out to the external affairs ministry. But a spokesperson for the ministry said that they have not received any official written representation.An official at Dhaka’s Indian High Commission, who did not wish to be named, said they have been in touch with the Bangladeshi authorities but do not have the approval for the return of the students yet. He added Bangladesh had been easing the lockdown and their request to bring back these students might receive a nod in a day or two.“However, the final say on this lies with the Bangladeshi government. If the external [affairs] ministry of India could directly reach out to Bangladeshi government, maybe they would act faster on it.”Viqar ul Haq, a third student, said Bangladesh could make a negative RT-PCR test mandatory for all the incoming students. “We are even ready to go for a two-week quarantine upon arrival, but the government should at least allow us in. The insensitivity of both governments will put our future at stake.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/medical-students-stuck-in-india-seek-help-to-take-exams-in-bangladesh-101621921089950.html
25-05-2021||India||India has administered over 198mn Covid vaccine doses till now||India had administered over 198 million coronavirus vaccine doses by Monday, May 24, even as the Centre allowed states to open on-site registration, appointment, and administration of doses for adults below the age of 45. It is being enabled in government vaccination centres, to begin with.By Monday 8pm, 198,443,550 vaccine doses had been given in India of which 1,252,320 beneficiaries of the age group 18-45 years received their first dose during the day. Cumulatively, 11,881,337 people in this age group got their vaccine doses across 37 States/UTs since the start of Phase-3 of the vaccination drive. Bihar, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh have administered vaccine to over a million each beneficiaries of the age group.Also Read | India’s Covid-19 tally nears 27 million with 196,427 fresh cases, 3,511 deathsBihar has given 1,386,811 vaccine doses to beneficiaries in 18-45 age group while Delhi has vaccinated 933,152 people in that age group. Meanwhile, Delhi has reported that vaccine firms have refused to deal with state governments. US pharmaceutical giants Moderna, and Pfizer have told the Delhi government that they will deal only with the Centre, said chief minister Arvind Kejriwal. Later, Pfizer issued a statement confirming it plans to supply vaccine only to the Union government.On Monday, India reported 194,514 fresh Covid cases of which Maharashtra logged 22,122 cases while Delhi recorded 1,550. Karnataka and Tamil Nadu recorded 25,311, and 34,867 fresh cases respectively. Meanwhile, Roche India announced the launch of its antibody cocktail to treat Covid patients, the cost of per patient dose working out to be ₹59,750. The first batch of Casirivimab and Imdevimab is available in India while a second batch will be made available by mid-June.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-has-administered-over-198mn-covid-vaccine-doses-till-now-101621919649882.html
25-05-2021||India||Mucormycosis treatment challenges, oxygen therapy link: Top doctor lists out||Gujarat and Maharashtra are among the 18 states which have reported more than 5000 cases of mucormycosis or black fungus as the country battles the massive second wave of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). According to Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan, Gujarat reported 2165 cases, Maharashtra 1188, Uttar Pradesh 663, Madhya Pradesh 590, Haryana 339 and Andhra Pradesh 248 cases. "Out of these 5424 cases of mucormycosis, we have seen that 4556 cases have a history of Covid-19 infection, while 875 cases are amongst non-Covid patients. Diabetes was present in 55 percent of the patients,” the health minister said at the 27th group of ministers (GoM) meeting on Covid-19 on Monday."We have been warning, issuing advisories and, through our experts, it has been communicated that indiscriminate use of steroids must be avoided and diabetes must be treated thoroughly as best as possible," he said. “Nine lakh vials of Amphotericin-B are being imported by the central government for the treatment of black fungus. Of this, 50,000 vials have been received and around 300,000 vials will be available in the next seven days," he said.Also read | Top Delhi doctor gives tips to combat black fungus amid alarming rise in casesNineteen states have already declared mucormycosis a notifiable disease under the epidemics act and will now have to be reported to government authorities.What is mucormycosis?Mucormycosis is a deadly and aggressive fungal infection that causes blackening or discolouration over the nose, one-sided facial swelling, headache, nasal or sinus congestion, fever, blurred or double vision, chest pain, breathing difficulties and coughing blood. The disease has a close link to diabetes and conditions which compromise the immune system of the human body. According to experts, an overuse during the Covid-19 pandemic of certain drugs which suppress the immune system could be causing the surge.Mucormycosis has a mortality rate of 54%, which can vary depending on the condition of the patients and the body part affected, data from the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention shows.Also watch: ‘No indication that Covid 3rd wave will impact children more’: AIIMS director﻿Not a communicable diseaseDr Randeep Guleria, the director of Delhi’s All India Institute of Medical Science (AIIMS), said on Monday the number of cases of mucormycosis is being reported is on the rise but it is not a communicable disease and does not spread from one person to another, like Covid-19 does.Dr Guleria also cautioned against using the term black fungus while talking of mucormycosis, as it leads to a lot of avoidable confusion. “Black fungus is another family; this term got associated with mucormycosis due to the presence of black dots among the culture of white fungal colonies. In general, there are various types of fungal infections such as candida, aspergillosis, cryptococcus, histoplasmosis and coccidioidomycosis. Mucormycosis, candida and aspergillosis are the ones observed more in those with low immunity,” he said during a press briefing.Also read | Now, Ghaziabad hospital reports 7 cases of ‘white fungus’ infection“Candida fungal infection can manifest with symptoms such as white patches in the mouth, oral cavities and tongue; it can infect private parts and can also be found in the blood (in which case it can become serious). Aspergillosis, which is relatively not common, affects and invades lungs by creating cavities in the lungs. What is observed in Covid-19 is mostly mucormycosis; aspergillosis is observed occasionally, and Candida in some people.”High-risk category“Ninety to ninety-five per cent of patients getting infected with mucormycosis are found to have been either diabetic and/or taking steroids. This infection is seen very rarely in those who are neither diabetic nor taking steroids,” Guleria said.Also read | Can people without Covid get black fungus? Experts explainHe also said that patients who are under high-risk category, those with uncontrolled diabetes and using steroids and are Covid-19 positive, with following symptoms should immediately report them to their doctors. “Some warning signs for mucormycosis such as headache, rusting or bleeding from nose, swelling below the eye, lowering of facial sensation, if observed in high-risk patients or those taking steroids, need to be informed to doctors so that early diagnosis and treatment can be given,” he said.No definite link with oxygen therapy“Many patients taking treatment at home, who were not on oxygen therapy, have also been found to get infected with Mucormycosis. So there is no definite link between oxygen therapy and catching the infection,” Dr Guleria added.Treatment challengesAnti-fungal treatment goes on for many weeks so it is proving to be challenging for hospitals as Covid-19 patients and other patients who get mucormycosis need to be housed in separate hospital wards. Surgery also needs to be done judiciously since aggressive surgery for mucormycosis can have adverse outcomes for Covid-19 patients.Also read | ‘Stop irrational steroid use in Covid treatment’: Govt on mucormycosisMaintaining proper hygiene is very important for diabetic patients since chances of opportunistic infection is very high in them, experts have said. They have also said that those using oxygen concentrators should ensure cleaning of humidifiers regularly.Types of mucormycosisMucormycosis can be categorised depending on the organ of the human body it attacks. Signs and symptoms of the infection also vary depending on the affected body part.Rhino orbital cerebral mucormycosis: It infects the nose, orbit of eye / eye socket, oral cavity and can even spread to the brain. Symptoms include headache, nasal congestion, nasal discharge (green colour), pain in sinus, bleeding nose, swelling on face, lack of sensation on face and skin discolouration.Pulmonary mucormycosis: This fungal infection affects the lungs and causes fever, chest pain, cough and coughing of blood.The fungus can also infect the gastrointestinal tract.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mucormycosis-treatment-challenges-oxygen-therapy-link-top-doctor-lists-out-101621917754853.html
25-05-2021||India||1 dead, 7 missing as two boats capsize in Odisha’s Malkangiri||A child drowned while seven other migrant workers went missing after two boats capsized in Sileru river at Andhra-Odisha border in Chitrakonda area of Malkangiri district on late Monday evening.Chitrakonda tehsildar T Padmanabha Dora said the incident happened when 30 migrant labourers in two boats were returning from Telangana to their homes in Kandhaguda and Gunthaguda villages in Odisha’s Malkangiri district at night, hoping to avoid testing by rapid antigen tests, made compulsory for people entering the state for the purpose of detecting and containing Covid-19 infections that have spiralled during the ongoing second wave of the pandemic. “While 19 people came back safely in a boat after finishing their work in Telangana, 11 others [were] travelling in two other boats when the mishap happened. When one of the boats capsized after hitting a pole underneath the water, panic-stricken occupants jumped to the other fishing boat to save their lives. But it too gave in and sank in the river,” said the tehsildar.A team of Odisha Disaster Rapid Action Force later recovered the body of a child from the river. While three migrant workers swam to safety, seven were missing. Five among the missing were women and the remaining two were children.The incident comes just days after a boat capsized in the Sileru river near the banks of Orapadar village in Andrapali gram panchayat of Malkangiri.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/1-dead-7-missing-as-two-boats-capsize-in-odisha-s-malkangiri-101621918209703.html
25-05-2021||India||India's Covid-19 tally nears 27 million with 196,427 fresh cases, 3,511 deaths||India recorded 196,427 new cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the last 24 hours, taking the total tally of cases to 26,948,874, according to Union health ministry update on Tuesday morning. It also showed that 3,511 deaths were also recorded in the same period, taking the nationwide toll to 3,07,231.The number of active cases in the country further went down by 133,934, and reaching 25,867,782 the ministry's update at 8am showed.The number of deaths have hovered near the 4,000-mark for past several days, leading to concerns among experts and government officials.The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said a total of 33,25,94,176 samples were tested up to May 24 including 20,58,112 samples tested yesterday.However, the number of daily cases in high caseload states like Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh Delhi are on a decline, which shows that the severity of the second wave of Covid-19 is on a decline in India.Several states have extended ongoing curbs in a bid to keep the Covid-19 infection from spreading. Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Kerala, Karnataka, Telangana, Uttar Pradesh, Nagaland, Mizoram, Meghalaya, Arunachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir and Goa have re-imposed curfew-like restrictions after active coronavirus cases showed a decline.Metropolitan cities like Mumbai and Delhi have seen signs of improvement in recent days, but there is a growing concern about smaller towns and rural areas where the coronavirus has made inroads.Union health minister Harsh Vardhan on Monday said that the daily recoveries from the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) exceeded the new cases in the country for the eleventh straight day.Ten states including Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, West Bengal accounted for 81.08% of the coronavirus infections seen on Monday, the Union health ministry said, adding that Tamil Nadu saw the maximum (35,483 new cases) followed by Maharashtra at 26,672.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-daily-covid-19-cases-deaths-fall-to-196-427-and-3-511-respectively-total-infection-tally-close-to-27-million-101621908519289.html
25-05-2021||India||Some of CBI appointments that have recently sparked a row||A Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led committee on Monday finalised the names of four officers to head the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) even as Congress member of the panel, Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, objected to the selection process. Chowdhury accused the government of adopting a “casual and superficial” approach and questioned the shortlisting process, HT reported on Tuesday.The CBI chief’s position has been vacant since February 3 when Rishi Kumar Shukla completed his tenure. Praveen Sinha has been working as the agency’s interim chief since then.Here is a look at some of the CBI appointments that have recently sparked a row.• Ranjit Sinha’s appointment as CBI chief in 2012 triggered a controversy as the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) demanded that it be put on hold citing a Rajya Sabha panel’s recommendation that a collegium should make the selection. Aam Aadmi Party chief Arvind Kejriwal also questioned the “secretive manner” in which the government chose Sinha and called him a “tainted person”. The government maintained the selection was done in a “fair manner” following the “due process” and that the Prime Minister had the authority to decide on the matter. Sinha’s two-year term was marred by the controversy over entries in the visitors’ diary at his official residence that showed he had allegedly met suspects in the alleged 2G spectrum allocation and coal scams.Also Read | Antigua police launch probe to find missing Mehul Choksi; no leads so far• Common Cause, an NGO, opposed Rakesh Asthana’s appointment as CBI’s Special Director in 2016. It moved the Supreme Court challenging the appointment, claiming it was illegal, mala fide as Asthana allegedly accepted favours from Gujarat-based Sterling Biotech and Sandesara Group of companies when he was Surat police commissioner in 2011. But the court dismissed the challenge to Asthana’s appointment. It said Asthana’s appointment cannot be struck on the basis of unverified diary entries against him. A fight between CBI director Alok Verma and his deputy, Asthana, also rocked the agency in 2019 and forced the government to divest them of their powers and send them on forced leave. In February 2020, the CBI exonerated Asthana in a criminal conspiracy and corruption against him filed in 2018.• M Nageswara Rao was named CBI interim chief inOctober 2018until the appointment of a new director when Verma was removed as the agency’s chief. Common Cause and activist Anjali Bhardwaj moved the Supreme Court and sought a specific mechanism to ensure transparency in the CBI chief’s appointment. They alleged Rao’s appointment was not made on the recommendations of the selection committee. In their plea before the Supreme Court, the petitioners said: “In fact, it appears that the committee was completely bypassed and had no role in the appointment of Nageswara Rao, thereby rendering the appointment illegal as it is in violation of the procedure for appointment of Director, CBI.” The court dismissed the plea.• Rishi Kumar Shukla was named the CBI director three days after chief minister Kamal Nath removed him as Madhya Pradesh police chief in February 2019. Mallikarjun Kharge, the Congress member of the selection panel, sent a dissent note citing a Supreme Court judgment and the Delhi Special Police Establishment Act that listed seniority, integrity, and experience in investigating corruption cases as prerequisites for the job of CBI director. He claimed that Shukla had no experience in anti-corruption cases. But the objection was overruled, and Shukla completed his tenure in February.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/some-of-cbi-appointments-that-have-recently-sparked-a-row-101621916231051.html
25-05-2021||NA||LIVE: Yaas intensifies into very severe cyclonic storm, says IMD||More than a million people on India's east coast were evacuated by authorities ahead of the impact of Cyclone Yaas, which intensified into a very severe cyclonic storm , according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Tuesday evening. This is the second cyclone to hit the country in the last 10 days after Cyclone Tauktae made landfall in the west coast. Also Read| Cyclone Yaas may cause maximum damage in Odisha’s Chandbali: IMDThe IMD said on Tuesday that Yaas will cause heavy rains in Odisha and West Bengal with wind speeds of 185 kilometres per hour. Nearly 900,000 people in West Bengal have been evacuated and shifted to relief camps so far, chief minister Mamata Banerjee said adding 370,000 people have been deployed for rescue and relief operations. Odisha has so far evacuated over 200,000 people from vulnerable regions. The state government has issued a red alert for Kendrapara, Bhadrak, Jagatsinghpur and Balasore districts- which will be severely hit by the cyclonic storm. Also Read| Cyclone Tauktae is a warning; the future of India’s western coast is at stakeHeavy rains are also expected in Bihar and Jharkhand. Authorities have issued an orange colour for Bihar. A red alert has been issued for Jharkhand with IMD adding extreme rainfall is expected in the southern and central parts of the state. Follow LIVE updates here:Follow all the updates here:Bihar CM Nitish Kumar chairs review meeting; orders officials to remain alertBihar chief minister Nitish Kumar on Tuesday held a virtual review meeting regarding Cyclone Yaas which was attended by district magistrates, officials of disaster management and other departments. During the meeting, Kumar instructed all officials to remain alert and make necessary arrangements before the cyclone makes landfall, a statement from the chief minister's office said. Yaas intensifies into very severe cyclonic storm, says IMDThe IMD said on Tuesday evening that Yaas has intensified into a very severe cyclonic storm. "The severe cyclonic storm 'Yaas over northwest and Bay of Bengal intensified into a very severe cyclonic storm," IMD director general M Mohapatra told news agency PTI and added it will move north-northwestwards, intensify further reach near north Odisha coast close to Dhamra port by Wednesday morning. Kolkata airport to suspend flight ops from 8.30 am to 7.45 pm on May 26The Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose International (NSCBI) Airport in Kolkata will suspend all flight operations on May 26 from 8.30 am to 7.45 pm in view of cyclone Yaas. "In view of the weather warning by @Indiametdept over #CycloneYaas, flight operations at #KolkataAirport will be suspended from 0830 IST upto 1945 IST on 26.05.2021.We sincerely apologise for the inconvenience caused," the airport authorities tweeted. West Bengal: 2 electrocuted, 40 houses partly damaged in tornado ahead of Cyclone Yaas, says CM Mamata BanerjeeWest Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee said on Tuesday that 2 people were electrocuted and 40 houses were partly damaged in a tornado in the state's Hooghly district ahead of Cyclone Yaas Railways moves 680 tonnes of oxygen from Odisha, Jharkhand, West BengalThe Indian Railways has moved 680 tonnes of oxygen from Odisha, Jharkhand and West Bengal ahead of Cyclone Yaas's impact. “Oxygen Expresses moved 680 tonnes of oxygen relief from Odisha, West Bengal and Jharkhand in the last 12 hours before the cyclone gets stronger. Eight Oxygen Expresses have moved from the region,” the national transporter said in a statement. Yaas to intensify into very severe cyclonic storm in next 12 hrs, says IMDThe India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Tuesday that cyclone Yaas is likely to move north-northwestwards and intensify into a very severe cyclonic storm in the next 12 hoursEvacuation process in Odisha to get over by evening: PoliceAn evacuation drive has been launched in Odisha ahead of Cyclone Yaas' landfall. The evacuation will be completed by Tuesday evening, the state's police told news agency ANI adding 81,661 people living in vulnerable areas have already been evacuated. Mamata Banerjee visits control centre for Cyclone Yaas in KolkataWest Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee visits control centre for Cyclone Yaas in Kolkata to inspect the preparations put in place.8,09,830 people have been evacuated from low-lying areas in 14 districts of West Bengal8,09,830 people have been evacuated from low-lying areas in 14 districts of West Bengal, says NDRF.We believe there will be no loss of life: Indian Coast Guard IGDespite the ban fishermen often head towards the sea for their livelihood, to combat this situation we are making announcements in regional languages. Navy is ready with their diving and medical teams. We believe there will be no loss of life: Indian Coast Guard IG.I will monitor the situation closely: Mamata BanerjeeI have spoken to all the DMs on Cyclone Yaas. I will stay in Nabanna tonight. I will monitor the situation closely: West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee.East Midnapore fishermen claim Cyclone Yass affecting livelihoodsEast Midnapore fishermen claim Cyclone Yass affecting livelihoods.We have eight trawlers here. Though it’s not in our hands to avoid cyclone, a bit earlier preparation can save us from this. Whole fishery business has been affected by Cyclone Yaas: Kamal Kanti, a fisherman.Red alert issued for 4 Odisha districtsAhead the predicted May 26 landfall of cyclone Yaas in coastal areas of the Odisha, the state on Tuesday issued a red alert warning for Kendrapara, Bhadrak, Jagatsinghpur and Balasore districts, which are likely to be affected with heavy rainfall.Yaas likely to make landfall near Odisha's Dhamra Port: IMDSevere cyclonic storm 'Yaas' is likely to make landfall near Dhamra Port in Odisha's Bhadrak district early on Wednesday morning, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said.NDRF earmarks highest-ever number of teams for Odisha, WBThe National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) has earmarked its highest-ever number of teams for deployment in Odisha and West Bengal as part of its preparations for the impending cyclone Yaas, a senior officer said on Tuesday.Our teams are continuously engaged in the evacuation of people from vulnerable areas: NDRFOur teams are continuously engaged in the evacuation of people from vulnerable areas. Medical teams will also be visiting the cyclone shelters: Assistant Commandant, 2nd Battalion-NDRF, at Digha.People living in low-lying and vulnerable areas have started moving to the multipurpose cyclone shelterPeople living in low-lying and vulnerable areas have started moving to the multipurpose cyclone shelter at Digha, East Midnapore, in view of Cyclone Yaas.Sea turns rough at Paradip#WATCH Sea turns rough at Paradip ahead of cyclone Yaas landfall#Odisha pic.twitter.com/JVBSL0E4vnSea turns rough at Paradip ahead of Cyclone Yaas landfallIndian Navy ramps up preparations, deploys rescue, relief teamsWith Cyclone Yaas predicted to make landfall on the eastern coast on May 26 and likely to hit parts of Odisha and West Bengal, the Indian Navy on Tuesday said it has ramped up rescue and relief operations to minimise damages.Calcutta high court cancels all matters listed for May 26-27With West Bengal bracing up for Cyclonic storm Yass, Calcutta high court has informed that it has canceled the hearing of all matters listed for May 26 and 27, in view of the warning issued by India Meteorological Department (IMD) for the cyclonic storm.Cyclone Yaas would continue to move north-north-westwards: IMDWould continue to move north-north-westwards, intensify further and reach Northwest Bay of Bengal near north Odisha and West Bengal coasts very close to Chandbali-Dhamra port by the early morning of Wednesday: IMDYaas very likely to move north-north-westwards, intensify further into a Very Severe Cyclonic Storm during next 12 hoursYaas very likely to move north-north-westwards, intensify further into a Very Severe Cyclonic Storm during next 12 hours: IMDExpecting wind speeds of 150-160 kmph gusting 180kmph over Jagatsinghpur, Kendrapara, Bhadrak and Balasore tomorrowWe are expecting wind speeds of 150-160 kmph gusting 180kmph over Jagatsinghpur, Kendrapara, Bhadrak and Balasore tomorrow as landfall is expected by noon. We have issued the highest danger warning for Dhamra and Paradip ports, said IMD Bhubaneswar, Odisha.Extremely heavy rainfall warning issued for Kendrapara, Bhadrak, Jagatsinghpur, Balasore for today and tomorrowRed alert -extremely heavy rainfall warning issued for Kendrapara, Bhadrak, Jagatsinghpur, Balasore for today and tomorrow. Orange alert- heavy to very heavy rainfall expected in Mayurbhanj, Jajpur, Cuttack, Khorda and Puri today: IMD Bhubaneswar.Odisha CM directs state's home minister to monitor situationIn view of the expected landfall of cyclone Yaas at Balasore coast, Odisha CM Naveen Patnaik has directed the state's home minister to reach Balasore today and remain there to monitor the situation.Locals evacuated to shelter homes in Odisha's JagatsinghpurWith impending very severe cyclonic storm Yaas predicted to make landfall on the Odisha-West Bengal border on the eastern coast of the country, the district administration evacuated locals from their homes to shelter homes in Jagatsinghpur district.Andhra CM directs officials to take all necessary steps to face Cyclone YaasAndhra Pradesh Chief Minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy has directed the officials concerned to take all necessary steps to face the Yaas Cyclonic storm.Rahul Gandhi asks Congress workers to provide all help in ensuring safety of peopleCongress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday appealed to party workers to provide all assistance in ensuring the safety of the people who would be impacted by Cyclone Yaas.Cyclone Yaas to intensify into 'very severe cyclonic storm' in next 12 hours: IMDThe Met Department on Tuesday said that Cyclone Yaas is going to intensity into a 'very severe cyclonic storm' in the next 12 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-yaas-live-updates-very-severe-cyclonic-storm-in-next-12-hours-101621914373048.html
25-05-2021||India||Sushil Kumar cried in lock-up, was up all night: Police||Two-time Olympic medallist Sushil Kumar, arrested in connection with the Chhatrasal Stadium brawl case that led to the death of a wrestler, was interrogated for almost four hours, the Delhi Police said on Monday. Kumar along with his associate Ajay were arrested on Sunday from outer Delhi's Mundka area.The police said that Kumar started crying as soon as he was lodged in the police lock-up, Hindustan Times' sister publication Livehindustan reported. He is in remand in the Model Town police station in Delhi, according to Livehindustan.Watch: Sushil Kumar sent to police custodyHe was awake all night in the lock-up and refused to eat anything, according to the police. He cried many times during the night, they added.During his interrogation, Kumar said that he just wanted to scare Sagar Dhankad, the 23-year-old wrestler who was killed during the brawl on May 4. And that is why Dhankad was beaten up, Kumar said according to Livehindustan which quoted police officials.Kumar further said that he stayed in the Chhatrasal stadium after the brawl, but left Delhi after hearing about Dhankad's death, according to Livehindustan.Police officials said they are investigating the case from different angles. "We are questioning Kumar to ascertain the sequence of events that transpired and led the crime and also about his whereabouts after the incident. He was also questioned about his associates and friends who helped him to hide. He will be taken to the spot for recreating the crime scene," a police officer was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.The police had earlier said that the incident took place due to a dispute over a property at the the Model Town area.They, however, refused to divulge details about a purported video of the incident which Kumar had allegedly asked his associate to record.The police said they have seized two double-barrel guns, seven live cartridges, two wooden sticks and five cars in connection with the case.Meanwhile, Northern Railway is set to suspend wrestler Sushil Kumar following his arrest by the Delhi Police in a murder case, a spokesperson said on Monday."The Railway Board has received a report on the case on Sunday from the Delhi government. He has FIRs registered against him and he will be suspended," Northern Railway CPRO Deepak Kumar said.A senior commercial manager with the Northern Railway, Olympic medallist Kumar had been on deputation with the Delhi government since 2015 and was posted as an Officer on Special Duty (OSD) at Chhatrasal Stadium for development of sports at school level.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sushil-kumar-cried-in-lock-up-was-up-all-night-police-101621914698403.html
25-05-2021||India||India's vaccine-related decisions based on science, says NTAGI chairperson||National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (NTAGI) chairperson Dr NK Arora on Monday justified the government's decision to defer vaccination by three months after clinical recovery from the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and said that India based all its decisions regarding vaccination on science, according to news agency ANI."We use scientific evidence and make the best use of vaccines. We are not just trying to have the best efficacy but also trying to see that the country is protected from various variants and waves of coronavirus going forward. We know coronavirus will stay for some time and we want to ensure that the people are adequately protected. Here, I must also say that the vaccine shortage is only for the next six weeks," NK Arora said.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageEarlier, the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 (NEGVAC) had recommended that the vaccination should be deferred by three months after clinical recovery of the illness. According to the Union health ministry, these recommendations were made based on "emerging global scientific evidence and experience". In case a person gets infected with the disease after getting the first dose of their vaccine, the second dose should be deferred by three months after recovery, the recommendations add."We know from July onwards the manufacturing of Covaxin and Covishield will increase 20-25 crore doses per month. In addition, we will be having other vaccines also like Zydus Cadila, Sputnik V, Johnson & Johnson in coming months," NK Arora said.NTAGI recommendations state that according to two studies, one conducted in the UK and the other in the US, chances of reinfection in people get diminished by 84-91% in the 6-7 months following infection because of the presence of antibodies in their systems. Meanwhile, India's decision to defer vaccination of recovered patients by three months was based on data of 1,400 subjects that showed risk of reinfection after 102 days of recovery at only 4.5%, the NTAGI chairperson added.(with ANI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-vaccine-related-decisions-based-on-science-says-ntagi-chairperson-101621908292466.html
25-05-2021||India||Yaas to cross Odisha, Bengal coasts on Wednesday as 'very severe cyclone'||Cyclone Yaas (pronounced as Yass) over eastcentral Bay of Bengal intensified to a severe cyclonic storm on Monday night, according to India Meteorological DepartmentAt 11.30pm on Monday, Yaas lay centred at about 390 km southsoutheast of Paradip (Odisha), 490 km south-southeast of Balasore (Odisha), 470 km southsoutheast of Digha (West Bengal), and 500 kms south-southwest of Khepupara (Bangladesh).It is very likely to move north-northwestwards, intensifying further into a very severe cyclonic storm during the next few hours. It would continue to move north-northwestwards, intensify further and reach northwest Bay of Bengal near north Odisha and West Bengal coasts by Wednesday early morning. It is very likely to cross north Odisha-West Bengal coasts between Paradip and Sagar Island around Balasore, during Wednesday noon as a very severe cyclonic storm.Initially, IMD had said Yass would make landfall around Wednesday evening but advanced the time of landfall on Monday. “At the time of landfall, we are expecting wind speed to be around 155 to 165 kmph gusting to 185 kmph. Once Yaas intensifies to a Severe Cyclone we are also expecting its sea travel to be faster which is why the landfall time has been advanced,” said Sunitha Devi, in charge, cyclones at IMD.Also Read | 27 districts in UP to experience heavy rain under Cyclone Yaas impact: ReportThough oceanic and atmospheric conditions over Bay of Bengal are extremely favourable for intensification of Yaas, experts hope it will not intensify to an extremely severe cyclone because Yaas has formed relatively close to the coast and has less time over the unusually warm ocean.Extensive damage is expected along north Odisha and WB coasts on May 26. There could be total destruction of thatched houses and extensive damage to kutcha houses; some damage to pucca houses; potential threat from flying objects; bending or uprooting of power and communication poles; flooding of escape routes; disruption of railways, overhead power lines and signalling systems; widespread damage to standing crops, plantations, orchards, falling of coconuts and tearing of palm fronds; blowing down of bushy trees; small boats, country crafts may get detached from moorings.Tidal waves of 2-4 metre height above astronomical tide are likely to inundate low lying coastal areas of Jhargram, south 24 Parganas, Medinipur, Balasore, Bhadrak, Kendrapara and Jagatsighpur districts around the time of the landfall.Light to moderate rainfall at many places with heavy falls at isolated places over coastal Odisha is likely on Monday with heavy to very heavy rainfall over Puri, Jagatsinghpur, Khurda, Cuttack, Kendrapara, Jajpur, Bhadrak, Balasore districts and heavy over Ganjam, Dhenkanal, Mayurbhanj districts on May 25, heavy to very heavy rains at a few places with extremely heavy rain (over 20 cm) at isolated places in Jagatsinghpur, Cuttack, Kendrapara, Jajpur, Bhadrak, Balasore, Mayurbhanj, Dhenkanal, Keonjhar and heavy falls at isolated places in Puri, Khurda, Angul, Deogarh, Sundergarh on May 26.Over West Bengal and Sikkim, light to moderate rainfall is likely at most places with heavy falls at isolated places over coastal districts of West Bengal on Monday. Heavy to very heavy rainfall is likely over Medinipur, South 24 Parganas and heavy rainfall at isolated places in Howrah, Hooghly, North 24 Parganas on May 25, extremely heavy rainfall (over 20 cm) is likely at isolated places over Jhargram, Medinipur, south 24 Parganas and heavy to very heavy rainfall at a few places over Purulia, Bankura, Bardhaman, Howrah, Hooghly, Kolkata , north 24 Parganas, Bhirbhum, Nadia, Murshidabad, Darjeeling districts on May 26. Heavy to very heavy rain is likely at isolated places over Malda, Darjeeling, Dinajpur, Kalimpong, Jalpaiguri, Sikkim, Bankura, Purulia, Bardhaman, Bhirbhum and Murshidabad on May 27.Also Read | Impact of Cyclone Yaas to be much more than Amphan, says Mamata: 10 pointsOver Jharkhand, light to moderate rainfall is likely at most places with heavy to very heavy rainfall and extremely heavy falls at isolated places on May 26, 27 and 28. Over Bihar, light to moderate rainfall is likely at most places with heavy to very heavy rainfall and extremely heavy falls at isolated places on May 27 and 28. Moderate to heavy rain is also likely over Assam and Meghalaya.Gale winds of speed reaching 70–80 kmph gusting to 90 kmph are prevailing over westcentral adjoining eastcentral Bay of Bengal. Gusting over major parts of central Bay of Bengal, they would decrease gradually from May 25 afternoon.Squally wind speed reaching 40-50 kmph gusting 60 kmph is prevailing over north Bay of Bengal and adjoining westcentral Bay of Bengal along and off north Andhra Pradesh, Odisha–West Bengal–Bangladesh coasts. It would increase gradually, becoming 50-60 kmph gusting to 70 kmph from May 25 forenoon and increase further becoming gale wind speed of 60-70 kmph gusting to 80 kmph from May 26 early hours over northwest Bay of Bengal and along and off West Bengal and north Odisha and Bangladesh coasts.Wind speed would gradually increase further becoming 90-100 gusting to 110 kmph from May 26 early hours and increase thereafter, becoming 155-165 kmph gusting to 185 kmph over northwest Bay of Bengal along and off Jagatsinghpur, Kendrapara, Bhadrak, Balasore and east Medinipur districts, 90-120 kmph gusting to 145 kmph over Khurda, Puri, south and north 24 Parganas, west Medinipur, Howrah and Hooghly districts; 70-90 kmph gusting to 100 kmph over Jhargram, Nadia, Bankura; 60-80 kmph gusting to 90 kmph over Ganjam, Gajapati and 50-60 kmph gusting to 70 kmph over Srikakulam, Vijayanagaram and Vishakhapatnam districts at the time of landfall.Sea condition is likely to be high to very high (9-14 metres wave height/38-63 wind speed in kts) over westcentral and adjoining eastcentral Bay of Bengal. It is very likely to become very high to phenomenal (up to 14 metres high waves and wind speeds up to 64 knots) over northern parts of central Bay of Bengal, north Bay of Bengal and along and off north Andhra Pradesh, Odisha–West Bengal-Bangladesh coasts during May 25 and 26.Fishermen have been advised not to venture into central Bay of Bengal during May 24 -25 and into north Bay of Bengal and along and off north Andhra Pradesh-Odisha-West Bengal–Bangladesh coasts from May 24 to 26.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/yaas-to-cross-odisha-bengal-coasts-on-wednesday-as-very-severe-cyclone-101621913349781.html
25-05-2021||India||Delhi Police visits Twitter offices to probe 'manipulated' tag: All you need to know||A team of Delhi police visited Twitter India offices on Monday, to seek clarification after the micro-blogging site tagged Bharatiya Janata Party's national spokesperson Sambit Patra's tweet as "manipulated media". "This was necessitated as we wanted to ascertain who is the right person to serve a notice, as replies by Twitter India MD have been very ambiguous," the team said.Two teams of the special cell were at the Twitter India offices located in Delhi's Lado Sarai and Gurgaon, part of the national capital region.The visit came after the special cell also sent a notice to the social media giant, in which it asked Twitter to explain the rationale and share all the information on how it described the toolkit as manipulated media.The city police’s special cell has been conducting an inquiry into a complaint filed with the police chief and the Tughlak Road police station on May 18 by two Congress party leaders, seeking an FIR against some BJP leaders for allegedly “forging documents, and circulating fabricated material on Twitter under the hashtag CongressToolkitExposed”.Twitter is yet to make an official statement over the issue.What is the 'toolkit' row?BJP has accused the Congress of creating a social media toolkit, or a campaign to malign Prime Minister Narendra Modi's image over the government’s handling of the second wave of Covid-19, and the Central Vista Project.However, the Congress party has denied the allegation and instead has accused BJP of forging "Covid-19 mismanagement document to divert attention."On May 21, Patra released details of the toolkit in which he claimed that it was created by Rajeev Gowda, in charge of Congress' research wing.What Congress saysThe Congress accused the BJP of concocting the document on Covid-19 to defame the opposition party. It wrote to Twitter on Thursday seeking action against Patra and other BJP leaders for “grossly misusing” the platform. Congress accused the BJP of indulging in “large-scale dissemination of false information”, which “has the potential to cause social unrest in the country”.On Monday, Gowda said, “This is an effort to cover up the whole thing. The BJP hatched a conspiracy to cook up a forged document and they have been caught. Now they are trying to browbeat Twitter. They have no legal authority to do that.”'Attempt to "murder" freedom of speech'In a video statement released hours after the police visit to Twitter offices, Congress' national spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said it exposes the "lameduck attempts" to hide a "fraudulent toolkit" by BJP leaders.Such attempts to "murder" freedom of speech lay bare the BJP’s guilt, he also said and tagged his video statement on the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-police-visits-twitter-offices-to-probe-manipulated-tag-all-you-need-to-know-101621912543441.html
25-05-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 9 am: Windy day in Delhi today; AQI in moderate category and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9 AM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Windy day ahead; Delhi AQI in moderate category todayStrong surface winds are likely to prevail on Tuesday as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast. The minimum temperature on Tuesday is likely to be 23 degrees Celsius (°C) while the maximum temperature is predicted to hover around 37°C. The minimum temperature on Monday was 21.2°C and the maximum temperature was 36°C. Read moreCipla's real-time Covid-19 testing kit 'ViraGen' to be sold from todayA real-time coronavirus disease (Covid-19) testing kit, launched last week by pharmaceutical company Cipla, will be in the market from Tuesday, the company said. The RT-PCR test kit is called 'ViraGen' and is manufactured for the country by the drug major in partnership with Ubio Biotechnology Systems. Read more'Can't be better prepared': Shubman Gill confident about India's chances to win WTC final against New ZealandIndia batsman Shubman Gill believes the Virat Kohli-led unit has a good chance of winning the inaugural World Test Championship tournament by defeating Kane Williamson's New Zealand in the final. Read morePriyanka Chopra shares her 'secret behind good marriage', after 2 years of marriage with Nick JonasActor Priyanka Chopra has shared her secret to a good marriage, and also revealed how she managed to plan the "world's most epic wedding". She tied the knot with American singer Nick Jonas in two grand ceremonies in December 2018. Read moreChai with a twist: This Parle-G chai popsicle recipe may be your new summer favouriteThe Internet may have some videos showcasing odd fusion food concoctions but sometimes it churns out recipes that can make one eager to try it out. Case in point, this chai biscuit popsicle that can easily be a nice snack during the summer season. If you’re a chai lover and love experimenting then this is indeed a perfect recipe for you to try. Read moreCyclone Yaas: Heavy rains hit Odisha; Mamata alleges discrimination on fundsHeavy rain hit Odisha as the state braced for cyclone Yaas. Cyclone Yaas is expected to make landfall on May 26. Landfall is expected in North Odisha and it will be the most affected area. Watch more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9-am-windy-day-in-delhi-today-aqi-in-moderate-category-and-all-the-latest-news-101621909540155.html
25-05-2021||India||Assam CM says Akhil Gogoi being treated for mental problems; invites criticism||Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma on Monday told the state assembly that president of Raijor Dal and newly-elected MLA from Sibsagar, Akhil Gogoi, was undergoing treatment for mental health related issues and was currently unfit to attend the assembly session. Gogoi’s party said Sarma’s remarks were insulting and a breach of the MLA’s privilege.Gogoi has been under arrest since December, 2019 for his role in the anti-Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) protests. The 45-year-old, who is under treatment at Guwahati Medical College Hospital (GMCH) for various ailments, was allowed to participate in the oath-taking ceremony of new MLAs held on Friday by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) court hearing his case.After taking oath, Gogoi requested the assembly speaker to let him take part in the entire session. Earlier, Gogoi had alleged manhandling by police and administrative officials while being brought to the assembly from GMCH.“How can a sick person be allowed to take part in the assembly session? Gogoi has been under treatment at GMCH for the past four months. He is getting treatment for psychological issues, emotional imbalance and mental problems,” Sarma said on the last day of the first session of the new assembly.“He forgot Covid protocol when he came to the assembly on the first day to take oath and went from one desk to another meeting everyone inside the house. If he says he is not sick, [then] he should be in jail. And if he is sick, he should not attend the assembly,” he added.Sarma’s response came after the speaker sought the government’s view on Gogoi’s request. The CM argued that since Gogoi was ill, he shouldn’t be exposed to others and allowed to take part in assembly proceedings.“The CM used insulting and demeaning words against our party president. Sarma doesn’t have what it takes to face Gogoi and hence uses all means to ensure he doesn’t take part in the assembly,” said Raijor Dal working president Bhasco De Saikia.Saikia further alleged that the state government’s official stand on Gogoi’s request for attending the entire session had no mention of mental illness. “...but a letter to the speaker from the home and political department, headed by the CM, says that as Gogoi’s matter was sub judice, he should approach the court for reprieve. This clearly exposes the CM’s stand in the assembly,” he said.Saikia said the CM shouldn’t have disclosed Gogoi’s medical condition in the assembly and also accused Sarma of breaking Covid-19 protocol several times in the past.Raijor Dal later said that Gogoi was contemplating filing a breach of privilege motion against the CM for his statements in the assembly on Monday.Replying to a discussion on the Motion of Thanks on the governor’s address, the CM again asked the banned United Liberation Front of Asom-Independent (ULFA-I) to shun violence and join the peace talks. He indicated that soon a peace deal would be signed with rebel outfits in the Karbi Anglong areas.Sarma listed the government’s achievements in fighting Covid and said it supplied oxygen to other northeastern states and medicines to states like Jharkhand and Telangana.The CM also assured that the government will fulfill all its promises including providing jobs to 100,000 youths and waiving off loans taken by women groups from microfinance companies.Sarma said a new department comprising experts will be created to construct embankments on the Brahmaputra and efforts will be undertaken to dredge its tributaries with the aim to make a flood-free Assam.He added that Bharatiya Janata Party’s return to power was also a mandate for re-verification of the National Register of Citizens (NRC) as promised by the party before polls.The Sarma-led government also proposes to make a law for protection of cows in the next assembly session.“We believe cows are our mother. So, we want to put an end to transportation of cows from West Bengal. The directive principles of our constitution say cows shouldn’t be slaughtered,” he said.Reacting to Sarma’s speech, the opposition Congress said the government avoided crucial issues like Covid-19 management and the National Register of Citizens (NRC).“We are committed to performing the role of a responsible opposition. But as per the mandate given to us by voters, we will continue to raise crucial issues,” said leader of Congress legislature party, Debabrata Saikia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-cm-says-akhil-gogoi-being-treated-for-mental-problems-invites-criticism-101621912749524.html
25-05-2021||India||27 districts in UP to experience heavy rain under Cyclone Yaas impact: Report||At least 27 districts in Uttar Pradesh are likely to witness heavy rainfall and storm-like conditions from May 24-28, Hindustan Times' sister publication Livehindustan reported on Tuesday, quoting the India Meteorological Department (IMD). The district authorities have been asked to make necessary arrangements, Livehindustan reported.The districts flagged by the weather department are Muradabad, Bijnore, Amroha, Sambhal, Badaun, Kasganj, Bahraich, Barabanki, Gonda, Shrawasti, Balrampur, Sidharthnagar, Basti, Ayodhya, Amethi, Sultanpur, Jaunpur, Ambedkar Nagar, Mau, Azamgarh, Ghazipur, Ballia, Deoria, Sant Kabirbagr and Maharajganj.The warning has been issued in the wake of Cyclone Yaas, which has intensified and moving towards the eastern coast of the country, according to Livehindustan. The cyclone's impact will be felt in east Indian states of Jharkhand, Bihar and Uttar Pradesh. In UP, Gorakhpur, Prayagraj and Lucknow could also witness weather changes due to the cyclone, the report further said.According to former Banaras Hindu University (BHU) professor and climate scientist Dr SN Pandey, the areas in states which will be impacted by the cyclone may witness high wind speeds and rain, Livehindustan reported.Yaas is likely to make landfall near Balasore in north Odisha at a speed of 155 kmph to 165 kmph, gusting to 185 kmph, on May 26, the weather department said on Monday.Anticipating the fury of the storm, Union home minister Amit Shah reviewed preparations including evacuation of people in vulnerable coastal areas and safe return of all ships and vessels as well as safety of Covid-19 facilities such as oxygen plants, mostly located in eastern India.At a video conference held with the chief ministers of Andhra Pradesh, Odisha and West Bengal and the Lieutenant Governor of Andaman and Nicobar Islands, besides officials of concerned ministries, the minister said a 24x7 control room is functioning in the MHA, which can be contacted by them any time for assistance.A massive evacuation drive has been launched in all low-lying areas and vulnerable storm-surge pockets, following the IMD predicting a tidal surge of 2-4.5 meters during the landfall of Yaas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/27-districts-in-up-to-experience-rain-under-cyclone-yaas-impact-report-101621912006844.html
25-05-2021||India||Cyclone Yaas becomes 'severe', alert in Bihar and Jharkhand: 10 points||The states on India's eastern coast are on alert ahead of the landfall of Cyclone Yaas, which has been brewing in the Bay of Bengal. It comes days after another powerful cyclonic storm Tauktae battered the country's western coast and killed at least 140 people.Cyclone Yaas, which intensified into severe cyclonic storm on Monday night, is expected to make landfall between Paradip and Sagar islands (in West Bengal) close to Balasore in Odisha early on Wednesday morning and could pack sustained winds of up to 165 kilometers per hour, according to India Meteorological Department (IMD).The IMD has predicted a tidal surge of 2-4.5 metres during the landfall of Yaas, according to officials. The massive storm comes as India is battling a second wave of Covid-19, complicating efforts to deal with both.Here are the latest on Cyclone Yaas:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-yaas-becomes-severe-alerts-in-bihar-and-jharkhand-10-points-101621908907579.html
25-05-2021||India||Cipla's real-time Covid-19 testing kit 'ViraGen' to be sold from today||A real-time coronavirus disease (Covid-19) testing kit, launched last week by pharmaceutical company Cipla, will be in the market from Tuesday, the company said. The RT-PCR test kit is called 'ViraGen' and is manufactured for the country by the drug major in partnership with Ubio Biotechnology Systems."This launch will help address the current testing services and capacity issues while reaffirming the company's ongoing expansion in the diagnostic space," Cipla said after the launch, according to news agency PTI.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe Covid-19 detection kit is approved by the ICMR (Indian Council of Medical Research) and uses multiplex PCR technology. "It helps to detect SARS CoV-2 N Gene and ORF Lab Gene with the sensitivity of 98.6% and the specificity of 98.8% as compared to a standard ICMR test," according to BioSpectrum magazine's website."This test is designed for the qualitative detection of nucleic acid from SARS-CoV-2 in the upper and lower respiratory specimens from individuals suspected of Covid-19," according to Cipla.Hailing his company's contribution in the fight against Covid-19, Cipla CEO Umang Vohra said this firm's partnership with Ubio Biotechnology Systems will help them reach the maximum number of people. “Cipla has been working relentlessly to ensure accessibility to treatments in this fight against Covid-19. Guided by our core purpose of 'caring for life', this partnership will enable us to reach out to more people across the country at a crucial time like now”.ViraGen is Cipla's third Covid-19 testing kit as it already has partnerships for antibody detection kits and antigen test kits. It launched ‘CIPtest’ rapid antigen test in December last year. Earlier, it had launched 'Elifast: SARS CoV-2 IgG ELISA' test kit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ciplas-covid-19-real-time-test-kit-viragen-to-be-sold-from-today-101621904653368.html
25-05-2021||India||Cyclone Yaas: Locals evacuated to shelter homes in Odisha's Jagatsinghpur||With impending very severe cyclonic storm Yaas predicted to make landfall on the Odisha-West Bengal border on the eastern coast of the country, the district administration evacuated locals from their homes to shelter homes in Jagatsinghpur district.Speaking to ANI Lakshmi from Sandhakud in Paradeep said, "During the last cyclone, my family lost everything. We luckily survived. I have come here with my husband, daughter, and her children."According to the India Metrological Department (IMD), Cyclone Yaas is likely to cross between Paradeep and Sagar Island near Balasore at noon on May 26.WATCH| Cyclone Yaas: Heavy rains hit Odisha; Mamata alleges discrimination on fundsSamir, from Sandhakud, said, "Our house is 100-200m away from the sea. After district administration cautioned us that severe cyclonic storm is on its way, our family of 10 came here."Earlier on Monday, Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik requested people who are in cyclone-prone areas to move to shelter homes."At a time when we are fighting with Covid-19, we have yet another challenge in the form of #CycloneYaas. The priority is to save every life, I request all those in cyclone-prone areas to move to shelter homes & cooperate with administration," said Patnaik.The Odisha Government on Monday assigned the high-risk districts to Senior Officers to supervise relief, rehabilitation and restoration work in the wake of the severe Cyclonic storm 'Yaas' which is expected to hit the coasts of Odisha and West Bengal on May 26.Listing the IAS officers, a statement issued by the Additional Secretary, Indramani Tripathy, read, "The following 1AS officers are assigned the districts noted against each for supervision of relief, rehabilitation and restoration works arising out of very severe Cyclonic storm 'Yaas'.The officers concerned are requested to proceed to the respective districts immediately. More than 800 Odisha Disaster Rapid Action Force (ODRAF) personnel are in a high state of readiness for the cyclone YaasAccording to the India Meteorological Department said the Cyclone Yaas is expected to hit the coasts of Odisha and West Bengal on May 26.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-yaas-locals-evacuated-to-shelter-homes-in-odisha-s-jagatsinghpur-101621906303712.html
25-05-2021||NA||Covid-19 LIVE: Punjab reports 4,798 new infections||Coronavirus cases in India remained below record levels in a signal that the deadly second wave may be receding. On Monday, the death toll surpassed the grim milestone of 300,000 fatalities. The total caseload was increased to 26,752,447 after the country logged 222,315 cases in a single-day jump.After Black Fungus and White Fungus, a case of Yellow Fungus emerged fin Uttar Pradesh. According to Dr BP Tyagi, an ENT (Ear-Nose-Throat) specialist, the symptoms of Mucor septicus (yellow fungus) are lethargy, reduced or loss of appetite, and weight loss.In the United States, Covid-19 cases are dropping to new lows. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said, under-vaccinated areas in the US could become hot spots for a mutation first detected in India and is increasing surveillance of the more-transmissible variant.In Vietnam, indoor dining was banned and parks were closed in Hanoi amid a new outbreak in the country’s north.Follow all the updates here:Stalin asks Centre to begin producing vaccine at its Chennai facilityTamil Nadu CM M K Stalin says Centre should start producing Covid vaccine at facility owned by it near ChennaiThe Tamil Nadu chief minister said that Centre should begin production of Covid-19 vaccines at facility near Chennai which is owned by the central governmentOm Birla visits medical college in Rajasthan's KotaRajasthan: Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla inspected Kota's New Medical College in PPE kit.#COVID19 pic.twitter.com/f6sU3FBNN2Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla inspected a newly built medical college in Rajasthan's Kota earlier in the day. Assam active cases reach 53,541Assam reports 5,767 new COVID19 cases, 4,783 discharges and 92 death todayActive cases: 53,541Total recoveries: 3,23,368Death toll: 2,915 pic.twitter.com/ptbO7JcFiMWith 5,767 fresh cases Assam's active cases tally reached 53,541. The state reported 92 deaths taking the toll to 2,915. Punjab records 4,798 new casesPunjab reports 4,798 new COVID19 cases, 6,451 recoveries and 176 death todayActive cases: 53,127Total recoveries: 4,81,462Death toll: 13,642 pic.twitter.com/yKAWQNbYXHPunjab currently has 53,127 active cases. It also recorded 176 fresh fatalities in the last 24 hours. Jaishankar-Guterres discuss equitable vaccine distributionEAM appreciated Secretary General's efforts to facilitate ‘Vaccines for All’ as they discussed the need to ramp up global vaccine production through expanded supply chains for fairer distribution of vaccines globally in the coming days: Permanent Mission of India to UN pic.twitter.com/ZAij6JkhG2The external affairs minister also discussed expanding supply chains and India and South Africa's proposal of TRIPS' waiver. Covid-19 vaccination: Over 12 million beneficiaries jabbed in 18 to 44 years age group#LargestVaccineDrive➡️ More than 1.28 Cr beneficiaries of age group 18-44 Vaccinated so far.➡️ More than 9.42 lakh vaccine doses administered to 18-44 age group today. pic.twitter.com/ohhQH1EeCHMore than 12.8 million beneficiaries in the 18 to 44 years age group, the Union health ministry said. Also, more than 200 million cumulative vaccinations have been completed in India, the ministry said.With 3,404 new Covid-19 cases, 105 deaths in last 24 hoursRajasthan reports 3,404 fresh COVID cases, 15,635 recoveries, and 105 deaths in the last 24 hours Active cases: 87,530Total recoveries: 8,28,410Death toll: 7,911 pic.twitter.com/hGyvQsJhmORajasthan reported 3,494 new Covid-19 cases and 105 deaths in the last 24 hours. Death toll in the state reached 7,911, reports ANI.Maharashtra reports 24,136 new Covid-19 cases, 601 deaths in last 24 hoursWith 24,136 new Covid-19 cases and 601 deaths, Maharashtra's cases tally reached 5,626,155 and death toll climbed to 90,349. Mumbai reported 1,029 new cases and 37 deaths. So far, 698,988 cases and 14,650 deaths have been reported in the state capital.Tamil Nadu reports 34,285 Covid-19 cases, 468 new deaths; active cases remain above 300,000In Tamil Nadu 34,285 people tested positive and 468 patients lost their lives for Covid-19 today. Active cases rose to 306,652, a bulletin from the state government showed.UP reports 3,957 new Covid-19 cases, 163 deaths in last 24 hoursUttar Pradesh reports 3,957 fresh COVID cases, 10,441 discharges, and 163 deaths in the last 24 hours Active cases: 69,828Total discharges: 15,88,161Death toll: 19,519Uttar Pradesh logged 3,957 new Covid-19 cases and 163 deaths in the last 24 hours. So far 19,519 deaths have been recorded in the state, reports ANI.Karnataka reports under 25,000 new Covid-19 cases, 588 deathsToday's Media Bulletin 25/05/2021Please click on the link below to view bulletin.https://t.co/VyoHdQiltC @CMofKarnataka @BSYBJP @mla_sudhakar @drashwathcn @RAshokaBJP @BSBommai @CPBlr @PIBBengaluru @KarnatakaVarthe @PIBBengaluru @BBMPCOMM @BlrCityPolice @blrcitytraffic pic.twitter.com/pMW8409PFKWith 22,758 new Covid-19 cases and 588 deaths, Karnataka's cases tally reached 2,472,973 and death toll climbed to 26,399.Andhra Pradesh reports 15,284 new Covid-19 cases, 106 deaths in last 24 hoursAndhra Pradesh reports 15,284 new #COVID19 cases, 20,917 recoveries and 106 deaths in the last 24 hours.Active cases: 1,98,023Total recoveries: 14,00,754Death toll: 10,328 pic.twitter.com/WXyjBl8Z6cAndhra Pradesh reported 15,284 new Covid-19 cases and 106 deaths in the last 24 hours, reports ANI.Free Covid-19 treatment in empanelled private hospitals for patients under state health insurance in PunjabPunjab Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu (in file photo) today announced that the state government has decided to provide free treatment to COVID-19 patients falling under Sarbat Sehat Beema Yojna in empanelled private hospitals: State government pic.twitter.com/7jCt9ESHu1Punjab health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said that free Covid-19 treatment to be provided in the state's private hospitals for those patients falling under the Sarbat Sehat Beema Yojana, reports ANI.Delhi reports 1,568 new Covid-19 cases, 156 deaths in last 24 hoursDelhi reports 1,568 new COVID19 cases, 4,251 recoveries and 156 deaths in the last 24 hours.Active cases: 21,739Death toll: 23,565Total recoveries: 13,74,682 pic.twitter.com/Ggoa6GSWrZWith 1,568 new Covid-19 cases and 156 deaths in the last 24 hours, Delhi's cases tally reached 1,419,986 cases and the death toll climbed to 23,565.Health facilities, workers working towards controlling Covid-19 pandemic: Harsh VardhanCOVID-19 outbreak has placed unprecedented demand on the health system. Our health facilities & workforce are currently inundated with a plethora of activities related to controlling the pandemic: Union Health Minister Dr Harsh Vardhan pic.twitter.com/T0QxM7ec7FUnion health minister Harsh Vardhan said that the country's health facilities and the workforce are currently inundated with a plethora of activities related to controlling the Covid-19 pandemic, reports ANI.Odisha reports 10,939 new Covid-19 cases, 33 deaths10,939 new coronavirus cases, 33 deaths in #Odisha: health officialOdisha recorded 10,939 new Covid-19 cases and 33 deaths according to a state health official, reports PTI.Watch | Manipur health officer's creative dance therapy to beat Covid-19 stressStates, UTs have over 17 million Covid-19 vaccine doses to be administered#IndiaFightsCorona:More than 21.89 crore vaccine doses provided to States/UTsMore than 1.77crore doses still available with States/UTs to be administeredDetails: https://t.co/ZPqywHPdlC#We4Vaccine #LargestVaccinationDrive #Unite2FightCorona pic.twitter.com/toyowIxx0VThe Union government said that more than 218 million doses of the Covid-19 vaccine have been given to states and Union territories and more than 17 million doses of these are still available with states to be administered.Ensure more Covid-19 vaccines are available to states: GehlotRajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot asks the Union Health Ministry should provide more vaccines to states instead of highlighting vaccination statistics.Telangana resumes second dose vaccination from todayThe second dose of Covid-19 vaccination for people above 45 years of age will commence from Tuesday across Telangana. According to an official release, Chief Minister K Chandrashekhar Rao has instructed officials to begin the second vaccination programme from today.India's daily Covid-19 tally drops to 196,427India's Covid-19 tally reaches 26,948,874 after 196,427 people tested positive for the viral infection. The death toll has increased to 307,231.US warns against travel to JapanThe US State Department said Americans should avoid traveling to Japan, where a state of emergency in several cities has fueled doubts about Tokyo’s plans to host the Olympics in less than two months.Australia reinstates Covid-19 curbs in MelbourneAustralia's second largest city Melbourne reinstated Covid-19 restrictions on Tuesday as authorities scrambled to find the missing link in a fresh outbreak that has grown to five cases.China reports 15 new Covid-19 cases on May 24 vs 18 a day earlierChina reported 15 new Covid-19 cases in the mainland for May 24, down from 18 a day earlier, its national health authority said on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-coronavirus-death-toll-india-world-may-25-2021-101621904285628.html
25-05-2021||India||Delhiwale: The happiness bench||One of the most hauntingly beautiful park benches in Delhi is in Lodhi Garden. This is the one under a dead tree, its back picturesquely turned towards the Sheesh Gumbad tomb. The tree’s leafless branches spread over the bench like the wailing limbs of a grief-stricken person. Decades ago, novelist Anita Desai famously posed for a photograph on this bench—the place has already been featured in these pages.But another equally beautiful park bench can be found in the so-called Friendship Park, adjacent to Aurobindo Marg in south Delhi. The park isn’t famous. But it’s a happy bench, and looking at it is enough to cheer the heart. Its back too is picturesquely turned towards a centuries-old stone monument—Dadi-Poti ka Gumbad. But the tree that stands above is not a long-dead corpse.Rather the opposite.An amaltas tree is standing behind it, currently in bloom, entirely covered with golden yellow flowers. Two gigantic Bougainvillea creepers, dense with pink flowers, complete the picture.And then there’s the towering monument, bringing a touch of frowning stateliness to the extravagantly colourful setting. Indeed, the sight is too unreal, almost vulgar in its luxuriousness, like a nouveau rich drawing room crammed up with imported chandeliers and marbles. If an artist had recreated this setting on her canvass, the work might have been dismissed as over the top.Most of the year the bench enjoys the company of the bougainvillaeas and the monument only, and it still looks plenty and pretty. But in summer months, when the amaltas joins the show, the bench acquires the soul of a fairy tale.The fact that the rest of the park is ordinary makes this spot even more special. As if the bench wasn’t made for the park, but the park was made for the bench and its leafy soulmates. In any case, the bench ought to be experienced by leaving it empty. No point in sitting on it and having your back turned to what makes the whole point of it.A few more weeks and the golden flowers will vanish. The bench will then be stained with just the bougainvillea pink. Its special beauty will come back after a year. This realisation abruptly makes its present appearance less joyful, more fragile, and thus more beautiful.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhiwale-the-happiness-bench-101621903013171.html
25-05-2021||India||Delhi HC questions Centre's decision denying visa to OCI card holder as mother visited Pakistan||The Delhi High Court Monday asked the Centre as to how it can stop a person from coming to India merely because his mother used to visit Pakistan.The query was posed to the central government by Justice Rekha Palli during the hearing of a plea by three US citizens, who are also Overseas Citizen of India (OCI) card holders, challenging denial of visa to them to visit their family here."How can you stop a person from coming to India just because his mother used to visit Pakistan," the court said and issued notice to the ministries of external affairs and home affairs and the Consulate General of India in New York, USA, seeking their stand on the plea by June 9.The petitioner claimed that he, his wife and two daughters had applied for renewal of their OCI cards, and in January 2021, his wife's card was renewed.However, his and his daughters' OCI cards were not renewed for the reason that his mother lived in Pakistan during her childhood and visited that country even after marriage when she had become an Indian citizen, said the petition, filed through advocate Abha Roy.Roy said that according to a circular issued by the central government, OCI need not be renewed for these three card holders.According to the central government circular anyone who gets an OCI card after turning 20 years of age need not get it renewed till the age of 50 years after which he/she has to renew it once. However, if the card is obtained after 50 years of age, then no renewal is ever required, the lawyer told the court.She told the court that the central government failed to appreciate that the petitioner got the OCI card after he turned 50 years old and his two daughters got the card after they turned 20 years and therefore, no renewal was required.Despite that he was not being allowed to travel to India, Roy told the court and added that this amounted to non-application of mind by the government in interpreting its own circular.The petitioners want to travel urgently to India as the petitioner's mother is in very poor health, the plea said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-hc-questions-centre-s-decision-denying-visa-to-oci-card-holder-as-mother-visited-pakistan-101621902641610.html
25-05-2021||India||Covid curbs in Gujarat: Police raid coaching centre with 555 students inside, arrests owner||A coaching centre owner in Jasdan town of Gujarat's Rajkot district was arrested for allegedly flouting Covid-19 norms after police found more than 550 students in his premises during a raid, police said on Monday. The raid on the centre, located some 215 kilomeres from here, took place on Sunday and its owner, identified as 39-year-old Jaysukh Sankhalva, was arrested on Monday, said Rajkot Superintendent of Police Balram Meena. "He was arrested under IPC and Epidemic Diseases Act provisions for disobeying police notification on Covid-19 norms as well as for negligent act which may spread infection. The children have been handed over to their parents," he said. According to police, Sankhalva runs a coaching centre-cum-hostel to provide training to students appearing for Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya and Balachadi Sainik School entrance exams. "Based on a tip off, we raided the premises and found 555 students between the age of 9-10 taking tuition. These children were not wearing masks nor was social distancing being maintained. The centre was functioning despite the state government's ban on classroom teaching due to the Covid-19 outbreak," Jasdan police station sub inspector JH Sisodiya said. Before his arrest, Sankhalva told reporters the students were staying in his hostel since May 15 with parental consent. "Most of them are supposed to appear for Navodaya Vidyalaya entrance test, which got postponed. The parents of these children asked me to keep them in the hostel rather than send them home," he claimed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-curbs-in-gujarat-police-raid-coaching-centre-with-555-students-inside-arrests-owner-101621901695593.html
25-05-2021||India||Centre allows walk-in vaccines for all adults||The Union government on Monday allowed states to open on-site registration, appointments, and administration of doses for adults below the age of 45 seeking coronavirus vaccines, after repeated calls to abandon the digital-only system that critics said was leaving out people who did not have access to smartphones or the internet.The feature at present is being enabled only for government vaccination centres, the health ministry said, and it will depend on the state government to decide whether they want to allow on-site registrations and appointments based on the “local context”.The move comes at a time when vaccines for the younger adult age group became available from May 1 but the demand soon surpassed supplies, exhausting stocks, and halting the drive in several states, including Delhi, Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, and Telangana.“Based on the various representations given by the states and inputs received by Union health ministry for the vaccination of 18-45 year age group, the Union government has now decided to provide facility of on-site registration/facilitated cohort registration on Co-WIN digital platform for 18-45 years age group,” the statement said.The statement noted that “even though Co-WIN provides for features such as registration of up to 4 beneficiaries with a mobile number, facilitated registration and appointments through applications, such as AarogyaSetu and Umang and through the Common Service Centres etc, people requiring cohort’s facility and those without access to internet or smart phones or mobile phones may still have limited access for vaccination”.The move was also meant to reduce vaccine wastage, the government said, suggesting states to open up vaccination centres to walk-in recipients if they have doses left over from appointment no-shows.“In case of sessions exclusively organised with online slots, towards the end of the day, some doses may still be left unutilized in case the online appointee beneficiaries do not turn up on day of vaccination due to any reason. In such cases, on-site registration of a few beneficiaries may be necessary to minimise the vaccine wastage,” the statement said.Experts pointed out that while the walk-in option may not immediately alter the pace of vaccination, it is a big policy shift whose impact will be visible when next month’s supplies are available.“It will help in hastening the pace; care should be taken to prevent super-spreader events at vaccination sites. For meaningful increase in the pace of coverage, comprehensive micro-planning and mobilisation strategies are needed,” said Dr Giridhara R Babu, head, epidemiology, Indian institute Of Public Health.The government opened vaccinations for the under-45 adult age group on this month, but people need to first register online and book a slot before they can be served at vaccination centres.The demand has been such that several states have run out of the limited supplies of vaccines they received for the 18-45 age group, including Delhi where deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said on Monday that the 400 vaccination centres for this group have been shut from this week due to a lack of doses.Sisodia earlier wrote a strongly worded letter to Union health minister Harsh Vardhan, saying the vaccination for the youth in the country has been “messed” up due to policy “missteps”.“In spite of early advantages given by our scientific community and Indian manufacturers, we have squandered away the great opportunity of timely vaccination of our people. The missed opportunity by the Government of India has resulted in extraordinary loss of lives during the current wave of Covid pandemic,” he wrote to Vardhan.The rate of vaccinations has fallen gradually in the country, after recording a peak of over 4 million doses that was delivered in a single day in early April. In the week ending May 10, this number was down to 2.15 million doses on average, followed by 1.82 million in the week ending May 17 and 1.48 million in the 7-day period after that.In addition to Delhi, Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana are among states that halted vaccinations for this age group. Many of these have floated tenders to procure doses directly from foreign developers but have not been able to draw much interest.The Centre has also directed states to issue clear instructions to all district immunisation officers, to strictly adhere to decision regarding the extent and manner of using the on-site registration and appointment feature for this age group.“State/UT must decide on opening of on-site registrations/facilitated cohorts’ registration and appointments for 18-45 years age group based on the local context just as an additional measure to minimize vaccine wastage and for facilitating vaccination of eligible beneficiaries in the age group 18-45 years. Also, abundant caution should be exercised and extreme due care should be taken while opening up of on-site registration… in order to avoid overcrowding at vaccination centres,” the statement further read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-allows-walk-in-vaccines-for-all-adults-101621902301372.html
25-05-2021||India||DGCA orders probe as couple gets married aboard SpiceJet flight||The Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) on Monday initiated an inquiry into the reports of a mid-air wedding ceremony on a chartered SpiceJet flight in violation of Covid-19 protocols and in-flight rules, officials familiar with the matter said. The aviation regulator has also de-rostered the crew of the flight, the officials said.The action has come after photos of a couple from Madurai that got married on May 23 on a SpiceJet Boeing 737 with nearly 100 wedding guests were widely shared on social media. In the photos shared online, the ceremony is proceeding in the aisle of the aircraft; no social distancing norms are being followed; and no one is sporting masks.Reports have suggested that the couple did this to avoid restrictions currently in place on weddings in light of the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic; in Tamil Nadu for instance, only 50 guests are allowed at a wedding; according to reports, there were nearly 100 passengers on board, all guests of the couple.The DGCA has issued a show-cause notice to SpiceJet and sought a detailed report on the incident. “DGCA has directed SpiceJet to lodge complaint against those not following Covid-19 appropriate behaviour with relevant authorities,” an official of the aviation regulator said on condition of anonymity.The couple chartered the flight through a travel agent for a round trip between Madurai and Bangalore, SpiceJet said in a statement on Monday.A SpiceJet spokesperson said the travel agent and the passengers were briefed in detail about the Covid-19 safety norms. “The client was clearly briefed on Covid guidelines... The approval for this flight was taken as a joy ride for the wedding group,” the spokesperson said.The aviation regulator in September 2020 issued an order stating that an airline’s service on a particular route can be suspended for two weeks if it fails to act against those who violate in-flight norms, including a ban on mid-air photography. In a March order, DGCA directed airport authorities and airlines to take action against those not complying with Covid-19 norms.The airline is also planning to take action against the passengers, the SpiceJet spokesperson added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dgca-orders-probe-as-couple-gets-married-aboard-spicejet-flight-101621902069746.html
25-05-2021||India||LG asks officials to assess stock, requirement of black fungus drug in capital||Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal on Monday directed officials to undertake a real-time assessment and review of the requirement of drugs needed to treat black fungus in city hospitals and ensure their “immediate procurement”, senior officials from the L-G’s office said.He also directed officials to address any additional and prospective logistical requirements in hospitals with regard to the treatment of black fungus at the earliest, they said.Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday said Delhi has around 500 cases of black fungus. “For black fungus, we have made three centres at LNJP, Rajiv Gandhi, and GTB Hospitals, but there is no medicine. We did not receive the medicine yesterday, so how can we treat the patients without the medicine,” he said on the sidelines of his visit to an oxygen depot in Mayapuri on Monday.“The injection is administered four to five times a day, if we are not given the injection, how can we treat the patient? This illness has emerged suddenly and there is a shortage of its medicine in the market, so the Centre is distributing medicines to all the states,” he said.The chief minister urged the Centre to increase production of Amphotericin B.“We need 2,000 injections every day, but we are receiving only around 400-500 injections,” he said.Baijal also asked for “a robust and effective system” to ensure proper screening, diagnosis, reporting and treatment of the disease, including the availability of essential drugs and health care facilities in accordance with the protocol and guidelines of the Union health ministry, needs to be put in place across both government and private hospitals.“Simultaneously, the L-G said, steps may also be taken to disseminate information about the infection, its prevention and cure amongst the general public to avoid any situation of panic,” the official from the L-G’s office quoted above said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lg-asks-officials-to-assess-stock-requirement-of-black-fungus-drug-in-capital-101621901682462.html
25-05-2021||India||Centralised policy to procure, allot vaccines a must: Sisodia||Delhi’s deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Monday wrote to Union health minister Harsh Vardhan, urging the central government to come up with a centralised vaccine procurement and allocation policy. In his letter, Sisodia, who is Delhi’s nodal minister for Covid-19 management, also said that vaccination for the “youth in India” has been “messed” up due to policy “missteps”.“In spite of early advantages given by our scientific community and Indian manufacturers, we have squandered away the great opportunity of timely vaccination of our people. The missed opportunity by the Government of India has resulted in an extraordinary loss of lives during the current wave of Covid pandemic,” Sisodia wrote.“To prevent any further loss of life, it is our humble request to the Government of India to come out with a centralised vaccine procurement and allocation policy. Delhi is ready to pay for the cost of the vaccine,” he added.The deputy chief minister said the rejection of global tenders filed by the Delhi government has posed a serious challenge, which only the central government can resolve.Meanwhile, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) chief spokesperson Saurabh Bhardwaj said the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-ruled Centre is “only indulging in business” by allowing just two companies to manufacture vaccines in India.“In today’s date, the Delhi government does not have vaccines, but if you call a private hospital, they will give you the vaccine for ₹1,200, and in some cases and ₹1,400. Approximately, it can be assumed that a profit of ₹1,000 is being made on one vaccine dose,” Bhardwaj said.The Delhi BJP said the AAP is lobbying for approval for foreign vaccine manufacturers to do business in India.All govt centres for 18-45 group shut: Delhi govtAll government centres immunising those between 18 and 44 will be closed Tuesday onwards, AAP MLA Atishi said, saying the government will have no doses of Covaxin or Covishield left after Monday’s inoculations.She added that the government allocated over 817,000 doses of both the vaccines for May, which were exhausted before the end of the month. For June, the allocation is less than half that number, she said. This will pose a challenge for those due for the second Covaxin dose.At least, 148,470 persons between ages 18 and 44 in Delhi have received a Covaxin shot in May, according to government data. The two Covishield doses have to be administered 12 to 16 weeks apart.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centralised-policy-to-procure-allot-vaccines-a-must-sisodia-101621900813786.html
25-05-2021||India||No deals with states, say Pfizer, Moderna||US pharmaceutical giants Pfizer and Moderna have told the Delhi government that they will deal only with the central government, and not sell Covid-19 vaccines individually to states, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Monday, highlighting a major problem in scaling up vaccine stocks at a time when central supplies are much lower that the vaccination demands and capacities of most Indian states.Government vaccination centres in the Capital have been shut for those below 45 years of age due to non-availability of doses, and the Delhi government is trying -- as are other state governments -- to place orders with foreign manufacturers. Centres for those above 45 have also been reduced from at least 650 to about 450.“We have spoken to Pfizer and Moderna for vaccines, and both the manufacturers have refused to sell directly to us. They have said they will deal with the central government. We appeal to the Centre to import vaccines and distribute to the states,” Kejriwal told reporters on Monday. His statement came a day after Punjab said Moderna refused to sell vaccines directly to the state.“We need vaccines. The Centre talked to Moderna, and Pfizer, and completed negotiations within 2-3 days. Why can’t it talk again to [vaccine] companies and complete negotiations in 3-4 days? Why is it not being done urgently? Bharat Biotech, which is manufacturing Covaxin, is willing to share its formula with everyone. A national newspaper reported that 16 companies here can produce Covaxin. Out of them, Bharat Biotech has struck a deal with only two companies. The Centre should order, not request, these 16 companies to start production within the next few days,” he added.Not long after Kejriwal’s comments, Pfizer issued a statement, saying “Pfizer will supply Covid-19 vaccine only to central govts & supra-national orgs for deployment in national immunization programs. Allocation of doses and implementation plan within a country is a decision for local governments based on relevant health authority guidance.”Lav Agarwal, joint secretary, Union health ministry, during the Covid-19 media briefing on Monday, said, “We want to explain to you all whether it is Pfizer or Moderna, the Centre is coordinating with both companies at two levels: one is their regulatory facilitation in terms of approvals, and the other is procurement related facilitation. But most of the time for both, Pfizer and Moderna, their supply books are already full. They will come back to government of India, and we will coordinate and facilitate supplies,” he said.Later n the afternoon, at a press briefing, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia stressed that the Delhi government has reached out to Moderna, Pfizer and Johnson&Johnson for vaccines, of which the first two have refused.“We asked the Centre for vaccines for the younger people, to which it replied that Delhi will only get 400,000 and the rest must be procured through a global tender. So, we reached out to foreign manufacturers and they have said they will only give to the Centre. The Centre is solely responsible for vaccine shortage in the country,” he said.The deputy chief minister urged the central government to expedite approvals to foreign vaccines, and procure, and distribute them among states.On April 13, India made a significant modification to its regulatory processes for foreign-made Covid vaccines to consider an emergency use application without a precondition of a clinical trial in local population. It said it would allow all vaccines that were granted approvals in the US, the UK, the EU, Japan, or by the World Health Organization (WHO) with only bridging trials that could go on simultaneously. Several weeks later, however, none of the eligible companies have received approvals.Experts say that several of them have committed their stocks to countries that moved faster than India. “There is likely to be another surge in cases. Over the past one year, there has been two distinct surges in India and 3 for Delhi. This period has to be utilised to give at least the first dose of the vaccine to as many as possible. A solution has to be found immediately to expedite procurement. It looks like that the number of doses available will go up from July; after that there is a need for aggressive vaccination. That is the only hope for preventing another surge,” said Dr Amit Singh, associate professor at Indian Institute of Science, Bengaluru.India’s Covid-19 vaccination rate peaked at over 4 million on April 10, but has since been gradually declining. In the week ending May 24, average daily vaccinations came to about 1.48 million, falling from 1.82 million in the week preceding it and 2.15 million in the week before that.Sisodia highlighted some of the problems over India’s delay in granting approvals to foreign-made vaccines, and wrote a letter to Union heath minister Harsh Vardhan. “In spite of early advantages given by our scientific community and Indian manufacturers, we have squandered away the great opportunity of timely vaccination of our people. The missed opportunity by the Government of India has resulted in extraordinary loss of lives during the current wave of Covid pandemic... To prevent any further loss of life, it is our humble request to the Government of India to come out with a centralised vaccine procurement and allocation policy. Delhi is ready to pay for the cost of the vaccine,” Sisodia said in his letter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-deals-with-states-say-pfizer-moderna-101621900338001.html
25-05-2021||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||India ended Sunday, May 23, with a total of 222,881 cases. The second wave of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic is definitely waning. The death toll remained high though (4,451 on May 23), but since deaths lag cases by around two weeks it will take some time for the number of daily deaths to start declining. What we are seeing now are deaths resulting from a time when the number of cases was still high (in absolute terms 220,000+ is high, but compared to the 400,000+ India was seeing not so long ago, it is a definite improvement).Just to put things in context, the seven-day average of daily cases rose from 373,321 on May 2 to 391,819 on May 9 (the highest the average reached) before it started falling (and pretty sharply at that), to 328,947 on May 16 and further to 255,198 on May 23. The corresponding seven-day averages of daily deaths were 3,394, 3,895, 4,037, and 4,190 respectively (the lag effect is evident here). It is likely that states where lockdowns are still in place (pretty much most states), will start removing them as early as next week.Also read: B.1.617 spread grows in India and overseasThat’s much needed – lives and livelihoods will have to return to some degree of normalcy – but it’s important that both the states and the federal government do what needs to be done to prevent a third wave. The wise men in charge of the country’s Covid-19 response likely know all this already, but here’s a quick reminder of five things that will help stave off the third wave (or, at the least, lessen its intensity).1.Continue with restrictions on movement and activities: While variants of the Sars-CoV-2 virus (including B.1.617, first sequenced in India, and which will likely soon be the dominant strain of the virus in most countries) were likely the main cause for the surge in cases India witnessed during the second wave, the fact that most states had completely opened up didn’t help. There were no restrictions on movement; nor were there limits on capacity (either in public transport or restaurants); many offices had reopened; and traffic in most parts of urban India was actually higher than it had been before the pandemic struck in early 2020 (understandable, because people were preferring to use private vehicles). That cannot happen again. The reopening has to be phased and gradual – especially where closed spaces such as malls, multiplexes, and offices are concerned – with limits on capacity that will likely have to continue till at least the beginning of the third quarter of this financial year (October).Also read: No proof that kids will be affected more in the next wave, say experts2.Avoid superspreader events: Another factor behind the second wave was a profusion of superspreader events: weddings, religious functions, and election rallies. Both the states and the Centre would do well to avoid these. For instance, farmers protesting three farm laws passed last September have called for a large nationwide protest on May 26. Many opposition parties have supported this. This is irresponsible – on the part of both the farmers and the parties. Similarly, there’s talk, after a meeting of education ministers on Sunday, of going ahead with the school-leaving exams for Class XII students after the end of the second wave (which means sometime in July). This, too, is reckless (especially because at least half of all Class XII students are under the age of 18, and not eligible for vaccination; and given the shortage of vaccines, there’s no guarantee that even the eligible ones have been vaccinated). Calling off the exams immediately, and grading these students on the basis of a formula that involves Class XI marks and internal assessment will end what has been a 15-month academic term for many, and kick-start the college admission process.3.Get the vaccine drive back on track: Enough has been written on this. As of May 23, around 43 million Indians have been fully vaccinated and another 108 million have received one dose. That’s just around 16% of the eligible population (those over the age of 18 years). The government needs to approve more vaccines, work with vaccine makers to enhance supplies, and together with the states, arrive at a schedule of supply (by months) accurate to few hundred doses. This will allow states to plan (and prioritise) better.4. Ensure accurate reporting of cases and deaths: There’s a simple rule to remember – if a state’s Covid-19 numbers look too good to be true, they probably are. Not recording positive cases (so as to show a low number of cases), and passing off Covid deaths as those from other diseases does not help anyone. Instead, by providing an inaccurate picture of the pandemic’s trajectory, it prevents epidemiologists and health experts from coming up with the right strategies.Also read: ICMR study found no black fungus cases after first wave5. Build stockpiles of key medicines; adopt triage: Even as they work on everything else, the federal government and the states will have to build stockpiles of key medicines (and oxygen). Unavailability of (or inaccessibility to) these were responsible for many of the deaths seen over the past month. It’s also becoming clear that states that used triage centres (Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu, for example) managed to handle a high number of cases. States that didn’t use these during the second wave should use the lull in cases to create triage centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-what-you-need-to-know-today-101621897875486.html
25-05-2021||India||Gap between demand, supply of drug to treat black fungus too high, says HC||The Delhi high court on Monday said the gap between the demand and supply of Amphotericin B, a drug used to treat black fungus, is too wide to bridge, and drastic steps are needed to be taken.“It appears that the present production and projection of supply and imports may fall short of the requirement to treat black fungus in not only in GNCTD, but across India,” a bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh said while hearing a petition by a man who urgently needed the medicine.On Monday, senior advocate Rahul Mehra, appearing for the Delhi government, told the court that the case load of the city has increased sharply, and that currently the city has 475 black fungus infection cases. Mehra said the demand for the injection is seven times more than the supply.The Centre, on its part, said that it was not being able to supply adequate amount of Amphotericin B to Delhi due to the production shortage. It said that the situation is similar in all the states and they have taken steps to ramp up the production of the drug.In a status report, the Centre also rejected Delhi’s demand for 100,000 vials saying the demand “cannot be said to reflect the immediate requirement”.“In any case, allocation is being made only as a temporary measure, to avoid stockpiling by some states which could be tantamount to depriving other states/UTs that are in immediate need of the same. Once the supplies increase, with higher production and more imports, states would be able to avail of higher stocks,” the Centre told the court in the status report.The Union government said it was rationing the supply with the primary concern to ensure that the most immediate and urgent demands are met first and foremost. It said that several states with different case loads have been writing to seek higher quantities of Amphotericin B to be allocated and in such cases, allotments are being made to them in accordance with the proportion of their reported case load in the entire country.Mehra, however, said the Delhi government was seeking 100,000 vials till June and not immediately. He also said that vials were separately being given to central facilties, and not to the Delhi government. He said that there were enough supplies at AIIMS but there was nothing for Ganga Ram hospital.The court noted that the “tussle” between the Centre and the Delhi government was due to the acute shortage of Amphotericin B. The discussion began during the hearing on a plea by a man, who was struggling to get Amphotericin B, and was currently battling for his life in Sir Ganga Ram hospital. The petitioner, through advocate Rohit Sharma, sought directions to the government to immediately provide the medicine to the patient.Central government’s standing counsel Kirtiman Singh said they have given licenses to five more manufacturers and asked the existing companies to ramp up production. He said that the supply situation was expected to improve with imports of the drug and increase in domestic production.When Mehra said that 50 other companies could be given the license, Kirtiman Singh remarked: “It is not some jackfruit that can be grown by anyone”.The court asked the Centre to file a further status report and posted the matter for hearing on Thursday.In his submission to the court, the Centre’s counsel said that between May 11 and 23, a total of 106,290 vials of Amphotericin B were allotted to the states, where the cases of mucormycosis have been reported. He said as on May 21, the total number of cases reported in India was 8,848.The Centre’s counsel submitted that Delhi was supplied 2,131 vials by two suppliers between May 1 and 8. On May 11, Delhi was allocated 2,150 vials of the drug while on May 19, allocation of 600 vials of additional supply have been made to Delhi government. On May 20, allocation of 430 vials of additional supply has been made and on May 22, an allocation of 670 vials was made, the Centre told the court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gap-between-demand-supply-of-drug-to-treat-black-fungus-too-high-says-hc-101621897669453.html
25-05-2021||India||‘Disservice’: HC tells watchdog to probe Gautam Gambhir for procuring meds||The Delhi high court on Monday said East Delhi MP Gautam Gambhir has done a “disservice” by storing large stocks of medicines used to treat Covid-19 during severe shortages in the city, and called the act “malpractice”, despite his positive intentions.A bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh directed the Delhi government’s drug controller to launch an inquiry into three politicians — Gambhir and Aam Aadmi Party MLAs Praveen Kumar and Preeti Tomar — for allegedly buying and storing Covid-19 drugs and medical oxygen in bulk amid a severe shortage in the Capital. To be sure, all three did not sell the medicines or oxygen, but distributed them for free to people in their constituencies.The court declined the petitioner’s request to make Gambhir a party to the case while stating that it has not directed any action against him or the two AAP MLAs.There was no response from the two AAP MLAs and Gambhir despite repeated attempts. However, advocate Kush Sharma, representing MLA Preeti Tomar, told the court she has not been involved in relief work after the recent demise of her brother, and that she was only helping transport oxygen cylinders to those in need.On April 21, the former cricketer said people who needed Fabiflu tablets could get them for free at his East Delhi office. Fabiflu is an anti-viral drug used to manage the symptoms of Covid-19.An application was also filed in the pending petition alleging that MLAs Tomar and Kumar procured and stocked medical oxygen.“Gambhir must have done it with best of intentions. He has been a national player for our country. But when you know the medicine is in short supply and you buy over 2,000... Is that responsible behaviour? Should he not have realised that medicines are in shortage for others?” the bench remarked.Directing the drug controller to inquire how the BJP MP procured over 2,000 strips of Fabliflu, the court said, “We do not doubt his intentions, but the way he has gone about it, he has actually done a disservice, unintentionally maybe.“Intentions may be lacking, but if they cross the line, the law has to take its course. With the best of the intentions they remain malpractice and, in our society, we cannot permit this.”The court’s remarks came on a public interest litigation by one Deepak Singh, who sought that an FIR be lodged on allegations that politicians are able to procure and distribute large quantities of Covid-19 medicines, even as patients run from pillar to post to arrange them.The court noted that once the violations have been brought to the drug controller’s notice, “it cannot shut its eyes”.“There is a very clear case made out. Tell us under what provisions action is required to be taken and against whom. All this has to be done by the drug controller and not the Delhi Police, as per Supreme Court orders,” the bench said, asking them for a report within a week.On August 29 last year, the Supreme Court ruled that police cannot register an FIR under the Drugs and Cosmetic Act and violations have to be probed by the drug controller/Inspector treating it to be a cognisable offence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/disservice-hc-to-watchdog-to-probe-bjp-mp-gautam-gambhir-for-procuring-meds-101621897434891.html
25-05-2021||India||‘Centre driven by obsession with exams, mustn’t let schools be superspreaders’: Manish Sisodia||Delhi education minister Manish Sisodia on Monday said the Centre should not be driven by an “obsession with examinations” while taking any decision regarding the Class 12 board exams and also cautioned the Union government against turning schools into super spreaders of Covid-19 by conducting exams.Sisodia’s comment came a day after the Union government convened a digital meeting to decide on the Class 12 board exams and subsequent entrance examinations that were postponed from March-April due to the second wave of Covid-19 across the country.At least two states, Maharashtra and Delhi, were of the opinion that exams should not be conducted amid the pandemic. Several states also raised the demand of vaccinating students and teachers before conducting exams, officials said; the Centre has asked states to submit their detailed suggestions on the matter by Tuesday.In an interview to India Today on Monday, Sisodia said, “We will give two suggestions to the Centre on Tuesday--- either to vaccinate around 1.4 core students scheduled to appear for Class 12 exams across the country; or, to cancel the exams and evaluate students on the basis of their historical references. In case a few students are not satisfied with their marks under the alternative method of evaluation, they should be given another option to appear for exams when the situation improves.”“The government should not be driven by an obsession with examinations and prioritise the interests of students. We should not turn schools into super spreaders due to our mistake (of holding exams during the pandemic),” he said.Sisodia said the central government should speak to Pfizer, which has developed a vaccine for children above the age of 12 years, and acquire that vaccine for inoculating 1.4 crore students (across all boards, all over India) who are currently studying in the 12th grade. “Or, the government may consult health experts on whether the vaccine given to those in the age group of 18+ can also be given to the students of class 12, who are mostly 17 or 17.5 years old,” he said.In another interview to NDTV, Sisodia said, “I request the Centre to consider that over 2.5 lakh Covid-19 cases are still being reported from across the country on a daily basis. Even as the cases are receding in Delhi, Covid-19 has started to make inroads into rural India. Besides, there are theories that the third wave of Covid-19 will mostly affect children. Any decision should be taken after considering all these factors... We cannot conduct exams by risking the safety and security of our children.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-driven-by-obsession-with-exams-mustn-t-let-schools-be-superspreaders-manish-sisodia-101621896857280.html
25-05-2021||India||Delhi High Court files suo motu PIL on mosquito menace in city||The Delhi high court on Monday initiated a public interest litigation (PIL) on the mosquito menace in the national capital said if not contained, vector borne diseases would add to the existing problems and complexities of the Covid-19 pandemic.The observations came even as the three civic bodies in the national capital are gearing up to conduct mega drives this week to ensure vector control -- nearly 1,700 municipal staff of the north and east corproations will be engaged in the exercises of fogging and spray of anti-larva medicines, while south corporation will launch a separate drive in its area.However, a bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh noted that on account of the current pandemic, steps to control the mosquito menace have taken a back seat.“We are inclined to take suo motu cognisance of the mosquito infestation which has taken place in Delhi. On account of the current pandemic, steps to contain such infestation have taken a back seat. Every year, during and after the monsoon months, the city sees vector borne diseases such as dengue and chikungunya, and if this is not contained, with the growing Covid pandemic, the rise of such diseases would lead to and add to the problem and complexities (of Covid),” the bench said.It issued notices to the Delhi government, the three municipal corporations, New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) and the Delhi Cantonment Board (DCB) seeking to know the steps taken by them or planned to be undertaken by them to contain the mosquito infestation. AAsking the civic authorities to “pull up their socks”, the court said, “The mosquito situation is very bad... With the onset of monsoon, and looking at the pandemic, we will land in major problems.”“If people get dengue or something and they need to be hospitalised in Covid times, it will multiply the problem very badly,” it added, while directing the authorities to file their responses by Thursday.Meanwhile, the north civic body has also identified over 170 sites, which are prone to water accumulation and fit for mosquito breeding.“We have identified more than 170 places, which are prone to mosquito breeding. Intensive fumigation and anti-larva medicine spraying will be conducted at these locations and other places as well. Our domestic breeding checkers (DBCs) are already inspecting households for mosquito breeding. We will ensure that vector borne diseases do not hit the capital this year,” Jai Prakash, mayor, North Delhi Municipal Corporation, said.He said he has also written to the public works department (PWD) and other road owning agencies to keep their drains and roads clean to ensure no waterlogging takes place during monsoon.According to data provided by civic bodies, 25 cases of dengue have been reported till May 22 this year while only 18 cases were reported during the same period in 2020. Similarly, the capital has reported only four cases of chikungunya till May 22, 2021, while 10 cases of chikungunya were reported during the same period last year. Till May 22, 2021, Delhi has reported eight cases of malaria while the number was 18 during the same period last year. The total number of dengue cases in 2020 was 1,072 while it was 2,036 in 2019. There is no figure available for the current year.The South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) said it is already carrying out fumigation exercises and has issued over 1,800 fines to owners of properties where mosquito breeding was found.A senior official of the SDMC said, on condition of anonymity, “The department has sent nearly five lakh awareness text messages. We have appealed to people to control mosquito breeding in and around their houses by cleaning their water coolers every week. The civic body has also issued nearly 1,800 legal notices and fines against households and commercial units for mosquito breeding on their premises.”Nirmal Jain, mayor, East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC). said the civic body will soon begin spraying of anti-larva medicine at locations where water usually accumulates. “We are making efforts to control mosquito breeding. Our staff is engaged in Covid duty as well, so, from this week, will start dedicated drives to control mosquito breeding,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-high-court-files-suo-motu-pil-on-mosquito-menace-in-city-101621896053159.html
25-05-2021||India||‘If allopathy works, why do doctors fall ill?’ Now Ramdev has this, and 24 other questions||Having been forced to withdraw his statement questioning the efficacy of allopathy medicines, Ramdev on Monday asked the Indian Medical Association (IMA) if allopathy offered permanent relief for hypertension and diabetes. In an ‘open letter’ posted on his Twitter handle, Ramdev posed 25 questions to IMA, which had objected to his video clip running down allopathy treatment for Covid-19. He asked if allopathy offered relief from hypertension and type-1 and 2 diabetes. “Does pharma industry have permanent treatment for thyroid, arthritis, colitis and asthma?” he asked.Ramdev went on to ask if allopathy had medicines for fatty liver and liver cirrhosis. “Like you found a cure for TB and chicken pox, look for treatments for liver ailments. After all, allopathy is 200 years old.” The yoga exponent also asked if allopathy had a cure for infertility, could reverse ageing, or raise hemoglobin.On Sunday, he was forced to withdraw a statement made in a viral video clip in which said that “lakhs have died from taking allopathic medicines for Covid-19.”“We had written to the health minister about it and Delhi Medical Association had asked that an FIR be filed. But,if he is withdrawing his statement, it is good,” said Dr JA Jayalal, IMA chief.Ramdev has courted controversy before with his remarks. Last year, his company launched Coronil after claiming it was a medicine for Covid, only to withdraw the claim months later. In 2012, he claimed that yoga could cure cancer and HIV-AIDS, drawing strict censure from medical councils. The next year, he claimed homosexuality was a disease and yoga could cure it, triggering outrage from both activists and doctors.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/if-allopathy-works-why-do-doctors-fall-ill-now-ramdev-has-this-and-24-other-questions-101621895334691.html
25-05-2021||India||Narada accused to stay under house arrest, HC questions need for immediate arrest||The four senior Trinamool Congress leaders accused in the 2016 Narada sting operation case will have to stay under house arrest till a five-judge bench of the Calcutta high court takes up their bail plea again on Wednesday.The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on May 17 arrested two West Bengal cabinet ministers, a legislator and a former mayor in connection with the 2016 Narada sting operation case. Though a special CBI court granted them interim bail, the high court had stayed it and sent them to judicial custody.“However, the larger bench questioned on Monday that if the accused persons were not arrested in the last seven years, then what was the need of arrest now, when the charge sheet of the case has been filed?” said Anindya Raut, advocate and TMC leader.On May 21 the high court put them under house arrest and constituted a larger five-judge bench to hear the bail plea. The Solicitor General of India told the court that the issue was not just of bail but whether the bail hearing of the special CBI court on May 17 was non-est in law.Meanwhile, the CBI moved the Supreme Court seeking adjournment of the hearing in the Calcutta high Court. The Solicitor General who was appearing for the CBI prayed before the five-judge bench that the hearing be adjourned as the agency had filed a special leave petition (SLP) before the apex court. The high court, however, refused the prayer and went ahead with the hearing as the Supreme Court hadn’t heard the matter yet.“The court would again hear the matter on May 26. Till then the accused would remain in house arrest,” said Manishankhar Chatterjee, Subrata Mukherjee’s advocate.The case pertains to a controversy that erupted ahead of the 2016 assembly elections after the Narada news portal uploaded a series of videos purportedly showing a number of high-profile TMC leaders receiving money in exchange for favours to a fictitious company.TMC has linked the arrests to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)’s loss in the recently concluded assembly polls. It has questioned why CBI didn’t arrest Suvendu Adhikari and Mukul Roy, who were also seen in the sting videos but have since switched from TMC to BJP.CBI’s plea to transfer the Narada trial out of the state is also pending before the high court. The CBI has named West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, law minister Moloy Ghatak, and lawmaker Kalyan Banerjee as respondents in its plea to transfer the trial of the case from the lower court. It claimed violent protests orchestrated by TMC against the arrests hampered its probe and intimidated lower courts.Banerjee staged a six-hour dharna at the CBI office in Kolkata after the four were arrested on Monday. Ghatak led nearly 3,000 workers and supporters to the court premises. Outside CBI’s office, hundreds of TMC supporters staged a protest and threw bricks, bottles, and shoes at central forces.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/narada-accused-to-stay-under-house-arrest-hc-questions-need-for-immediate-arrest-101621894239321.html
25-05-2021||India||Farm union welcomes Opposition support to stir||The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), a platform of farmer unions protesting three agricultural laws, on Monday “welcomed” the support offered by key Opposition parties to its planned mass demonstration on May 26, and asked them to mount the pressure on the Narendra Modi-led government at the Centre to repeal a series of legislation passed last year. The farmers’ outfit, however, reiterated that it wouldn’t involve any political party in their agitation or negotiations.“We have always said that only direct talks between the farmers and the government solve the issue. The government thinks it has freed itself from the issue. That’s why we are asking for talks,” said Gurnam Singh Charuni, a farm leader.Farmers have been protesting at five sites in large camps near Delhi’s borders: Singhu, Ghaziabad, Tikri, Dhansa and at Shahjahanpur on the Rajasthan-Haryana border, demanding the rollback of three laws passed in September last year to lift restrictions on trade in farm produce.On May 21, the SKM wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, asking the Union government to resume dialogue to end the agitation, but remained steadfast on their demand to scrap the legislation.Farm leaders said they wanted to use the occasion to “keep things on the boil”. The top leadership of the agitation felt that the government could not be allowed to simply sit tight even as the farmers protested. “We wrote to the prime minister because we have to keep things on the boil. The government cannot take it easy,” said Hannan Mollah, a left politician who is a key member of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha.The SKM’s statement comes a day after leaders of 12 opposition parties extended their support to the farmers’ call for a nationwide protest on May 26 to mark months of the farmers’ protest against the Centre’s three new farm laws, despite fears that large gatherings of farmers camped on the capital’s borders and elsewhere could turn into a superspreader event amid a raging second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic.The apparent trigger for the farmers’ letter to the prime minister, asking him to urgently restart talks, is that the farmers’ protests would complete six months on May 26.So far, 11 rounds of talks between 40 farm leaders and the government have failed to resolve the crisis. Both the government and farmers called off the series of discussions on January 22, citing lack of progress. The unions have rejected the government’s offer to freeze the laws for 18 months.The agriculture ministry is awaiting instructions from the “highest level” – which in bureaucratic parlance usually means the prime minister’s office -- on how to respond to the demand to resume negotiations.“The letter was addressed to the prime minister. So, a decision on what next (is to be done) will depend on instructions from the highest levels,” an agriculture ministry official said.Congress secretary Pranav Jha supported the farmers’ protest plans. “In this government, nothing can move without Modi’s consent. Only if he wants, the farm laws can be repealed. But the government’s strategy so far had been to tire out the farmers and waiting to see that they go away.”“It is a political movement now. It’s not simply a farmers’ movement,” said KS Mani a farm economist formerly with the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University.A section of the Opposition, however, thinks that the farmers have stretched their agitation unnecessarily.A senior Opposition leader from Punjab, requesting anonymity, said, “In every agitation, it is more important to know when to stop than when to begin the agitation.”“The farm groups should have declared victory after the Supreme Court put the laws in abeyance and gone home. But they decided to stay put and after what happened on January 26, they have also lost support of the middle-class,” the leader added.Most of the protesters are farmers from Punjab and Haryana, the two food bowl states. They are demanding the repeal of three laws to liberalise farm trade passed by Parliament in September that farmers say will leave small farmers at the mercy of large corporate farms.A key concern is that the laws, by ushering in free markets, would pave the way for abolition of government-run markets that offer minimum support prices, an assured floor price, for staples.The Modi government has, however, billed the laws as a necessary step to modernize India’s antiquated farming sector that is hardly productive. The gross domestic product (GDP) per worker in agriculture is one-third of the economy-wide GDP per worker. This means productivity in agriculture is too low to lift the overall economy.Prime Minister Modi has sought to allay concerns that the system of support prices or MSP for farmers would be jeopardised in any way. “The system of MSP was there, is there and will continue to be there,” he had said in Parliament in February.To be sure, the new laws don’t offer a guarantee that the government will continue to offer support prices for staples, a system introduced in the 1960s to help India offer profitable prices to farmers to overcome food crises.The laws at the heart of the protests are The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance, Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020.The government has said the laws would spur investments and give farmers freedom to sell their produce directly to large buyers in a sector that accounts for nearly 15% of India’s $2.9 trillion economy and employs half its workforce.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-union-welcomes-opposition-support-to-stir-101621893397191.html
25-05-2021||India||Covid fears as thousands of farmers gather in Hisar||The Hisar administration on Monday agreed to withdraw cases registered against over 350 farmers after a clash escalated between them and the police on May 16 during Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar’s visit to inaugurate a Covid hospital.Thousands of farmers, including women and youths, on Monday started assembling at four toll plazas on outskirts of Hisar to start a protest march in front of the divisional commissioner’s office. From there, the farmers went to Krantiman Park where a farmer, identified as Ram Chander Kharab of Uglana village, died of heart attack.As many as 4,000 rapid action force personnel and Haryana armed police staff of Bhiwani, Hisar, Sirsa, Jind, and Fatehabad were deployed to restrict entry of protesters inside the city.Anti-riot vehicles and a wall were erected to stop movement of farmers but the protest ended peacefully. No untoward incident was reported in district.The farmers’ march was stopped at Fawara Chowk, nearly 1km from the commissioner’s office and a 26-member farmer delegation was invited by the district administration to hold talks.Farm leaders including BKU spokesman Rakesh Tikait, Gurnam Singh Charuni, Balbir Singh Rajewala, Joginder Singh Ugrahan, Vikas Sisar and others moved ahead for discussion with the district officials.To avoid any mishap, Tikait led the protest and his SUV was at forefront during the protest march.After attending the meeting with district administration, Tikait said the administration has agreed to revoke cases registered against peasants in connection with the May 16 incident and will take legal course of action to withdraw the cases.“It was decided to withdraw cases within a month’s time. If the Hisar administration tries to betray us again, we will start a ‘pucca morcha’ here,” he said.“The administration has accepted our demand to give government job to the kin of Ram Chander, who died of heart attack during the march. We will observe black day on May 26 on completion of six months of the farm agitation. The government should accept our demands and end this deadlock,” he added.Tikait said 12 opposition parties supported them in the media but none of them sat in the tents during the agitation.Hisar SDM Jagdeep Singh said the administration and farmers have agreed to withdraw the cases registered against farmers within a month.“We have agreed to provide job to the deceased farmer’s family member on DC rate,” the SDM added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-fears-as-thousands-of-farmers-gather-in-hisar-101621893268301.html
25-05-2021||India||Covid a priority, nobody dying over lack of marriage certificates: Centre on recognition of same-sex marriages||The Centre on Monday opposed a clutch of petitions demanding recognition of same-sex marriages, telling the Delhi high court that Covid-related matters should be prioritised as nobody was dying due to lack of marriage certificates.Appearing for the central government, solicitor general Tushar Mehta urged a bench of justices Rajiv Sahai Endlaw and Amit Bansal to defer the hearing of the cases as they didn’t qualify as “extremely urgent” matters.“Law officers are struggling with Covid issues. As a government, our focus in terms of urgency is on urgent, imminent issues,” Mehta said.But senior advocate Saurabh Kirpal, representing one of the petitioners, said the matter should be decided expeditiously.Senior advocate Maneka Guruswamy, appearing for another petitioner, said there are 70 million Lesbian Gay Bisexual Transgender (LGBT) people in the country and the community was struggling to get admissions in hospitals and was being left out everywhere.“We cannot access our partners, cannot look after sick parents,” she said, emphasising the urgency of the matter.To this, Mehta replied: “You don’t need marriage certificate for hospitals, nobody is dying because they don’t have marriage certificate.”He also said that matters should not be listed before the bench of justices Rajiv Sahai Endlaw and Amit Bansal as according to the roster, they are currently hearing cases related to the Armed Forces, Land Acquisition etc and not Public Interest Litigation (PIL).The bench then adjourned the matter to July 6, asking the Centre to seek clarification on the roster from the chief justice of the high court.The court was hearing a batch of three petitions for legalisation of same-sex marriages.The first was filed by Abhijit Iyer Mitra, Gopi Shankar, Giti Thadani and G Oorvasi and contended that the Hindu Marriage Act (HMA) did not distinguish between heterosexual and homosexual marriages if one were to go by how it was worded. The 1955 act clearly stated that marriages could be solemnised between “any two Hindus,” the petition argued.The second petition was filed by two mental health professionals, Kavita Arora, 47, and Ankita Khanna, 36, seeking legal recognition of their marriage under two different civil laws, the Special Marriage Act (SMA) and the Foreign Marriage Act (FMA),The third plea was filed by two men , Vaibhav Jain, an Indian citizen, and Parag Vijay Mehta, an overseas citizen of India , who got married in the United States, where same-sex marriage is legal, in 2017. They also sought the same relief as Arora and Khanna, stating that an Indian consulate had refused to register their union this year under the FMA.While hearing the matters in October last year, a bench headed by justice Endlaw observed that “we may shed our inhibition” when it came to same-sex marriages. It had said that laws are gender-neutral and the Centre may try to interpret the law in favour of the citizens in the country.But in February, the Centre opposed the pleas, saying a marriage in India could be recognised only if it was between a “biological man” and a “biological woman” capable of producing children.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-a-priority-nobody-dying-over-lack-of-marriage-certificates-centre-on-recognition-of-same-sex-marriages-101621892645789.html
25-05-2021||India||No proof that kids will be affected more in the next wave, say experts||There is no evidence yet to assume that the next wave of infections will hit children harder, the government’s top experts said on Monday, citing data that suggests the impact of Covid-19 on different age groups was similar in the second wave of cases to what it was in the first, last year.The clarifications come at a time when several officials, and some experts, have said that children may be at higher risk in the future. Most experts, however, say that this could be because children are not yet eligible for vaccines and getting doses to them could take longer.“If we look at the data, and compare both the Covid-19 waves, children are usually protected as the numbers are fewer. Even if they get infection, the disease is usually mild. The virus is the same; it has not changed, and there is no indication that in the third Covid-19 children will be more impacted,” said Dr Randeep Guleria, director, All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS).“Another hypothesis is that the virus enters the body with the ace receptor, and in children you find less OF such receptors as compared to adults. This is one hypothesis why the disease is less in children. So far, there is no data to show children are getting more affected, so in future too we cannot say for sure if children will be impacted more. There could also be another theory that says since kids aren’t exposed much yet, in the next wave there’s a possibility that proportionally they may get more affected by virtue of greater exposure,” he added.Guleria also said that in AIIMS, a routine death audit was being done in people who succumbed to Covid-19 and comparing the data from the past one-and-a-half months to the previous Covid-19 wave showed age-group and comorbidity parameters were almost similar. Older people, and people with more than one comorbidities, were most affected.“We try to present the bigger picture in front of people. In the past it has been clarified that in both the waves, the level of infection in different age groups has remained the same. Overall, the infection pattern in both the waves is the same. There is not much difference. Also, mortality is higher in people above 60 years, and those suffering from comorbidities, which is why in our vaccination programme this category is the priority age group,” said Lav Agarwal, joint secretary, health ministry.Dr Guleria also warned that with rise in Covid-19 recovery numbers, doctors and members of the public will have to be watchful of post-Covid-19 issues such as breathing difficulty, fatigue, chest tightness, cough, and other conditions that recovered people tend to experience for a long time.“There are various symptoms that remain even after one has recovered from Covid-19. Now we even roughly know at what interval roughly people remain affected. For example, if your symptoms stay for 4 to 12 weeks, then we call it ongoing symptomatic Covid-19 or post acute Covid-19 syndrome; and if the symptoms stay for more than 12 weeks than it is termed as post Covid-19 syndrome or long Covid-19. There are many Covid-19 patients who may show symptoms even for 12 weeks, and require treatment,” said Dr Guleria.As a solution, Dr Guleria said that there was a need for setting up multi disciplinary post covid clinics where these people can be rehabilitated, and also to encourage people to perform yoga etc. to improve lung capacity and overall well-being.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-proof-that-kids-will-be-affected-more-in-the-next-wave-say-experts-101621892120197.html
25-05-2021||India||Roche’s antibody cocktail for treating Covid-19 out in Indian market||Roche India’s antibody cocktail is now available in market to treat Coronavirus disease patients, the Pharma giant announced on Monday, adding that the cost per patient dose will be ₹59,750.Monoclonal antibodies are laboratory-made proteins that mimic the immune system’s ability to fight off harmful pathogens such as viruses.The first batch of antibody cocktail, Casirivimab and Imdevimab, is now available in India while a second batch will be made available by mid-June.Casirivimab and imdevimab are monoclonal antibodies that are specifically directed against the spike protein of SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, and are designed to block the virus’ attachment and entry into human cells.Also Read | India’s Covid-19 death toll tops 300,000, new cases fall to 222,315“Roche is deeply committed to support the ongoing efforts to combat the Covid-19 pandemic, mitigate the deadly second wave and save lives. We are optimistic that the availability of Antibody Cocktail (Casirivimab and Imdevimab) in India can help in minimising hospitalisation, ease the burden on healthcare systems and play a key role in treatment of high risk patients before their condition worsens,” said V Simpson Emmanuel, managing director and CEO, Roche Pharma India.Each of the 100,000 packs to be available in India offers treatment for two patients.Cipla will distribute the product across the country. According to the company statement, the drug will be available through leading hospitals and Covid-19 treatment centres.The antibody cocktail revived drugs controller general of India’s approval under emergency use on May 5.It has also received emergency use authorisation in the US and several EU countries.“We are guided by our strong sense of responsibility to address unmet patient need and look forward to leveraging our solid marketing and distribution strengths in India to provide broader, equitable access to this innovative treatment option in the country,” said Umang Vohra, MD & Global CEO, Cipla.It is to be administered for the treatment of mild to moderate Covid-19 in adults and paediatric patients (12 years of age or older, weighing at least 40 kg) who are confirmed to be infected with SARS-COV2 and who are at high risk* of developing severe disease, and do not require oxygen.It has been shown to help these high-risk patients before their condition worsens, reducing the risk of hospitalisation and fatality by 70% and shortening the duration of symptoms by four days.. As one vial has enough material to treat two patients, if opened for the first patients’ dose, it can be used for the second patients’ dose within 48 hours when stored at 2°C to 8°C. The product can be administer either intravenously or subcutaneously in a healthcare setting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/roches-antibody-cocktail-for-treating-covid-19-out-in-indian-market-101621892134071.html
25-05-2021||India||ICMR study found no black fungus cases after first wave||A study by the Indian Council of Medical Research, released on Monday, said that there were no instances of mucormycosis (black fungus disease), in 10 hospitals where researchers tracked secondary bacterial and fungal infections in Covid-19 patients during the first wave of the pandemic.The study was conducted between June and August last year, on 17,534 patients in 10 hospitals (Two in Delhi, two in Mumbai, one each in Vellore, Jodhpur, Bhopal, Pondicherry, Chennai, and Kolkata) and its findings are interesting at a time India is combating an unprecedented spate of black fungus cases. The Union government said last week that there were 5,000 cases of the disease, which has a fatality of at least 50%, around the country.According to the study, secondary bacterial and fungal infections affected around 3.6% (ranging from 1.7% to 28% between hospitals) of patients hospitalised with Covid-19 . And the mortality in patients with these secondary infections was 56.7% as against 10.6% among other hospitalised patients. The mortality in those with secondary infections was as high as 78.9% in one of the hospitals, the data showed.“What we found was that most of these secondary infections, 78% of them, were acquired at the hospital; the indication for infections started two days after hospitalisation and most of the samples had gram negative bacteria showing that they were hospital-based infection. This could be because infection control policies at the hospitals went for a toss amid the pandemic. Hand hygiene wasn’t as good because of double gloving and use of PPE kits in the hot weather also added to that,” said Dr Kamini Walia, corresponding author of the paper and a scientist with the epidemiology and communicable diseases department at ICMR.She added, “The most common pathogens causing the infection were klebsiella pneumoniae and acinetobacter baumannii; usually E coli is the most common pathogen found as per previous ICMR reports. Both the infections are very difficult to treat because they have acquired lot of resistant genes over time. The treatment will further become difficult post-Covid. Hospitals must invest in infection control and rationalise antimicrobial prescriptions.”The study cautions about the increase in antimicrobial resistance due to excessive use of stronger medicines. Around 74.4% of the total antimicrobials prescribed in the hospitals were from the Watch and Reserve category of the World Health Organization (WHO).WHO classifies all antibiotics in three categories – Access drugs that can treat commonly encountered pathogens and have lower resistance potential, Watch drugs that have higher resistance potential and are critical for treatment, and Reserve drugs that need to be saved as last resort for drug-resistant microbes and given only once an infection is confirmed.“Around 47% of the infections were found to be multi-drug resistant; but more than 74% of the antimicrobials prescribed were from the Watch and Reserve category. And the 10 hospitals from where we have collected data are in the ICMR network; they have been trained in infection control and antimicrobial stewardship. We can only imagine what is happening in other hospitals,” said Dr Walia.Even in the case of mucormycosis, the overuse (and misuse) of steroids is blamed by many experts.“[This is] a double whammy; Covid-19, along with the secondary infections, increases mortality significantly... Mucormycosis cases reported after the second wave are largely [related] with the overuse of steroids. At the peak [of the second wave], steroids had vanished from the market. This has never happened before; It is one of the most common medicines available,” said Dr Chand Wattal, head of the department of microbiology at Sir Ganga Ram hospital, one of the 10 hospitals that participated in the study.Sampling was low, though, he added.Only 7,163 samples were sent for microbial culture , with multiple samples belonging to the same patients. The low sampling was because of the practical problems; not many healthcare workers wanted to collect them during the first wave when not much was known about the disease.“The sample size decreased considerably because people were scared to take the samples; especially those that generate aerosols such as lavage (a procedure where lower respiratory tract is flushed with fluid which is collected for diagnosis). The sampling has increased now that people are aware of how to protect themselves,” said Dr Wattal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/icmr-study-found-no-black-fungus-cases-after-first-wave-101621890337042.html
25-05-2021||India||Provide ration, meals to migrants, Supreme Court tells states||The Supreme Court on Monday told states that stranded migrants across the country must be given free dry ration and cooked food through community kitchens, in directions that sought to reduce the problems faced by unorganised sector workers rendered jobless during Covid lockdowns.The directives were, in effect, an extension to all states of the instructions given by the top court to the National Capital Region states of Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana for migrants stranded in and around NCR.States will be free to either utilise the foodgrain received under the Atmanirbhar Bharat scheme, or provide them under any state-specific scheme. “We direct that migrant workers wherever stranded throughout the country should be provided the dry ration under the Atmanirbhar Scheme or any other scheme found suitable by the States/Centre,” the bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan and MR Shah said.On providing cooked food, the bench directed the states and Union territories to open sufficient community kitchens for migrant workers. “There shall be wide publicity with respect to the various schemes including the places of community kitchens so that such needy persons may in fact take benefits,” the bench said.The orders came in a suo moto proceeding initiated by the top court in the light of problems faced by migrants across the country,The Court also identified the slow registration of workers in the unorganised sector as a major implementation flaw in schemes for their benefit. It pointed out that the Union labour ministry was working for well over a year on a National Database for Unorganised Workers (NDUW), which would include migrant and construction workers. “We are of the view that for accessing of any benefit percolating from any scheme framed by the Centre or the states for the benefit of unorganised workers or migrant workers, registration of workers is essential, which registration shall facilitate the unorganized workers to assess the scheme and reap the benefit,” the bench observed.The work on the database started after the Supreme Court in 2018 directed the labour ministry to set up a portal for registration of unorganised workers, and make it available to states. The Code of Social Security Act, 2020, by which the Unorganised Workers Social Security Act, 2008, stood repealed, also envisaged the registration of unorganised workers, gig workers, and platform workers.The court asked solicitor general Tushar Mehta to file an affidavit within two weeks, informing them about the progress of NDUW and the Social Security Code. The judges also urged states to collaborate with the Centre on completing the NDUW at the earliest.Most states told the court that workers were not coming forward to register, and some contractors refused to cooperate with government queries. “These are illiterate and downtrodden people. How will they cope up with online registration? Our main concern is that benefits should reach the needy persons. If they (migrant workers) are not coming, the Government must reach them and identify them,” the bench responded.The bench also underlined the need for a suitable mechanism to monitor and supervise whether the benefits of the welfare schemes reach people. “On paper, the Government says it has spent crores of rupees, but they must also reach the needy,” the bench said.In May last, the top court took up a suo moto petition following media reports showing the mass exodus of migrant labourers from cities on foot and cycles, travelling for long distances without food, water or transport. The Court directed all states and UTs to arrange transport for stranded migrants by rail and road. Further, Court directed food and water to be supplied to them. In addition, the states which received migrants were to maintain data of workers who returned, their skill, and details of previous employment at the block, district and village level.Some civil rights activists, represented by advocate Prashant Bhushan, informed the court that the NCR states were yet to provide dry ration under the Atmanirbhar scheme, as directed by the court on May 13, and that very few community kitchens were functioning.Citing an example of Delhi, where construction workers were provided a cash incentive of ₹5000, the applicants demanded similar benefits to be extended to migrant workers, rickshaw pullers, and street vendors. But the bench refused, saying, “Cash transfer is a matter of policy and scheme framed by each State/Union Territory and no direction for cash transfer can be issued by this Court to any category of person unless they are covered by any scheme formulated by the State/Union territory.”The Court noted that several states were providing cash benefits ranging from ₹1,000 to ₹6,000, and sought details of such schemes from all states and UTs by the next date expected to be on June 11.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/provide-ration-meals-to-migrants-supreme-court-tells-states-101621889557127.html
25-05-2021||India||Tamil Nadu teacher suspended over sexual harassment charges||A teacher of a prominent city school on Monday was suspended pending an inquiry after multiple allegations of sexual harassment by past as well as present students surfaced against him on social media.The Padma Seshadri Bala Bhavan (PSBB) Senior Secondary School, meanwhile, claimed that no complaints were made against the teacher, who taught commerce, in the past.A special police team led by Crimes against Women and Children (CWC) deputy commissioner of police H Jayalakshmi visited the school to probe the case. School education minister Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi told reporters that he has asked officials of the concerned education department to look into the allegations.“The chief education officer has enquired with the school management. The school has informed us that they will set up a committee to look into the issue,” Poyyamozhi said.The incident came to light after an alumna shared an instance of sexual harassment against the teacher on Instagram on Sunday. Likewise, several students came forward and accused the teacher of making inappropriate jokes; one of them claimed that he had even invited her for a movie. Another student alleged that the school had failed to act against the accused despite several complaints.The issue escalated after Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) MPs Kanimozhi and Dayanidhi Maran called for strict action. While Kanimozhi called for action against the teacher and school authorities who failed to act despite complaints, Maran wrote to Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal to direct the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) to probe the lapses in addressing the issue.Following the allegations on Instagram, over 1,000 alumni of the school wrote to the management, demanding the immediate suspension of the teacher pending investigation.The alumni alleged that despite several complaints against the accused, who has been teaching for more than 20 years in the school, authorities did not initiate any action besides a verbal warning.The alumni noted that the accused routinely harassed girl students, physically touched them with sexual intent and warned of retaliation if they complained.The alumni also said that the teacher had access to contact numbers of all students since classes had moved online in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic.In their petition to school authorities, the alumni demanded that the teacher be excluded from all academic activity, including grading students in their exams or evaluating them till the investigation into the case is completed.“Ensure that the identity of minors and school children are protected, and no adverse, penal, or retaliatory action is taken against them in any regard,” the petition added.“It pains us that despite the fact that complaints and concerns about (the accused, name withheld) has been escalated in the past, it has not been dealt with the rigorous expectations of an institution like PSBB and we hope that the same will be addressed effectively now.”A section of students belonging to the 2007 batch, however, came in support of the teacher, and demanded a fair probe into the incident.In a statement later in the day, the school refuted charges that complaints against the accused were raised in the past.“We would like to assure you that our school has zero tolerance towards any behaviour that adversely affects the physical, emotional and psychological well being of our students,” the statement signed by the principal and dean of the school said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-teacher-suspended-over-sexual-harassment-charges-101621889129089.html
25-05-2021||India||Why defence ministry chaired the GoM on Class 12 exams||Defence minister Rajnath Singh was handpicked by Prime Minister Narendra Modi last week to head the group of ministers (GoM) looking into the feasibility of conducting Class 12 examinations because of his stature as the government’s senior-most minister and cross-party acceptance, HT has learnt after speaking to two senior government officials.The GoM also comprises information and broadcasting minister Prakash Javadekar and women and child development minister Smriti Irani, both former education ministers. Singh chaired a meeting on Sunday attended by education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’, Smriti Irani, Prakash Javadekar. Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) officials, education ministers of all states, education secretaries, and chairpersons of the state examination boards.“It is an issue in which the Prime Minister himself is involved,’’ said Nishank. “It involves so many students in the country and so the PM asked Rajnathji also to sit, shows just how important this matter is for us,” he added. A decision on the issue is expected by June 1.One of the officials quoted above said PM Modi chose Singh after consultations because he wanted not only his senior-most minister but also someone who had experience in this area.Singh first became education minister in 1991 when the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) formed its first government in Uttar Pradesh. Singh held the portfolio for two years and in 1992, brought in the anti-copying act that made cheating a non-bailable offence and allowed police to come into examination halls to conduct raids.“The biggest concern for the government was that it should be attended by all states,’’ said a second official. "Rajnath Singh has great acceptance across party lines and that’s another reason why he was chosen. In seniority, he is the topmost minister.’’Both the officials quoted above said choosing Singh had paid off as all Opposition party ministers attended the event and the meeting reached a broad consensus of holding the board exams, albeit truncated. Even Delhi education minister Manish Sisodia, who had objections, listed them cordially.Nishank’s office said fielding Singh didn’t undermine the education minister, who is yet to fully recover from Covid. “On this issue of exams, the PM previously held a meeting so there is no question of us chairing when Rajnathji is there,’’ said an official from Nishank’s office.The official pointed out that Singh and Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren, who holds the state education portfolio, both praised Nishank’s initiative to conduct this process even though he was ill.At Sunday’s meeting, Singh’s intervention was limited to telling all attendees to speak briefly so that they wouldn’t go over time. In his concluding remarks, he told all states to give their opinion in writing, which is expected to be collated in a day or two, before the government arrives at its final decision.Singh was also the behind-the-scenes negotiator for the government during the farmer protests earlier this year. While commerce minister Piyush Goyal and agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar were officially speaking to the farmers, Singh was meeting with key farmer leaders at his residence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/why-defence-ministry-chaired-the-gom-on-class-12-exams-101621888773001.html
25-05-2021||India||Cyclone Yaas: Amit Shah reviews prep, Mamata questions fund allocation||The ongoing tussle between West Bengal and the Centre continued on Monday after chief minister Mamata Banerjee accused the NDA government of allocating less funds to the state following a video conference with home minister Amit Shah to review preparedness for Cyclone Yaas.In the meeting with the chief ministers of Andhra Pradesh, Odisha and Bengal and the Lieutenant Governor of Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Shah directed the states to make adequate power back-up arrangements in all Covid-19 hospitals, labs, vaccine cold chains and other medical facilities, said a statement issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs.Banerjee said at least 20 districts in West Bengal, including Kalimpong and Darjeeling in the north, could be affected even though three coastal districts – South 24 Parganas, North 24 Parganas and East Midnapore – along with Kolkata will be directly hit.“They (the Centre) have announced an advance fund of ₹600 crore each to Andhra Pradesh and Odisha and a little more than ₹400 for West Bengal. I have questioned why Bengal was being deprived despite being a larger state with dense population. I asked Shah why this discrimination. He said that he would talk later and that allocation was based on scientific views,” Banerjee said.The severe cyclone is expected to cross the Odisha-West Bengal coast, close to Balasore in Odisha, around Wednesday noon with wind speeds of 140-165 kmph gusting up to 185 kmph. On Monday, West Bengal and Odisha started evacuation of people living in coastal areas to cyclone shelters and government buildings. The evacuation is to be completed by Tuesday afternoon.“Evacuation has already started and we plan to evacuate at least 10 lakh people. Around 4,000 cyclone and relief shelters have been set up. At least 51 rescue teams have been deployed. A 24x7 control room has been set up at the state secretariat which would coordinate up to the block level,” the chief minister said, adding that the army has been alerted.The chief minister urged people to wear masks even at relief centres as Covid is taking a heavy toll in the state. On Sunday, the state recorded more than 18,000 new cases and 156 deaths.“This time we have set up safe homes and quarantine centres where suspected patients and those detected with Covid after RAT could be shifted,” said a senior official of North 24 Parganas, associated with the evacuation process.In May 2020 the state was hit by another very severe cyclone Amphan, killing 98 people and damaging property worth a few thousand of crores.“Very severe cyclone Yaas is expected to cross the Odisha-West Bengal coast between Paradip and Sagar close to Balasore in Odisha on Wednesday noon. It would move towards Jharkhand,” said Sanjib Bandopadhyay, deputy director of the IMD’s (India Meteorological Department’s) regional office in Kolkata.During the time of landfall, the cyclone is predicted to trigger wind speeds up to 155-165 kmph gusting up to 185 kmph in East Midnapore district, located along the West Bengal-Odisha border. In Kolkata, wind speeds may reach up to 70-80 kmph gusting up to 90 kmph.IMD director general Mrutyunjay Mohapatra said the sea tide would be as high as 4-5 metres above the mean sea level during the period in the four districts of Balasore, Bhadrak, Kendrapara and Jagatsinghpur and some coastal districts of West Bengal. “These four districts will experience heavy to very heavy rainfall on May 26 with rains up to 300mm,” he said.The Odisha government on Monday started a massive evacuation exercise in the coastal districts of Balasore, Bhadrak, Kendrapara and Jagatsinghpur with Covid-appropriate behaviour in place. Special relief commissioner Pradip Jena said district collectors would complete the evacuation by May 25 afternoon. “Zero casualty is the motto,” he said.Jena said 10 senior IAS and IPS officers have been sent to the four coastal districts and Mayurbhanj to supervise relief, rehabilitation and restoration measures in the wake of the cyclone. In Balasore, where the cyclone is expected to pass through, district administration advised people to keep drinking water ready for at least four days. Those who are living under thatched houses have been advised to move to nearby cyclone centres.The Centre has rushed 52 NDRF teams apart from 60 of the ODRAF and 200 fire tenders are being kept on high alert. Similarly, 165 teams from the public works department and 165 from the rural development department have been formed for cyclone management, officials said.Odisha, which faced Cyclone Fani in May 2018 with speeds of up to 200 kmph, killing 64 people and affecting about 16.5 million people in over 18,000 villages, has a robust system to deal with such calamities. In 2018, Cyclone Titli killed 77 people, destroyed 260,000 hectares of agricultural land, over 60,000 houses, and killed more than 35,000 domestic animals. Between 1891 and 2021, over 100 tropical cyclones have lashed Odisha — the highest number among the states on the eastern coast.Andhra Pradesh chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy told Shah that the impact of the cyclone is expected in north-coastal Andhra Pradesh and a few other coastal districts. “The process of evacuation of people in the vulnerable areas had commenced in Srikakulam district, bordering Odisha. The process will be followed in other districts as well,” the chief minister said.The CM asked officials of Srikakulam, Vizianagaram and Visakhapatnam to evacuate Covid-19 patients, if necessary, to safer hospitals. Effective measures should be taken to ensure that there are no power supply issues. Similarly, people from inland areas should be evacuated to safer places wherever necessary. All essentials, starting with supplies in relief camps, should be put in place, he said.Because of the cyclone moderate to extreme rain is expected in the coastal districts of West Bengal, Odisha and Andhra Pradesh and parts of Jharkhand, Sikkim and Bihar. In Jharkhand, a red alert has been issued with a prediction of extreme rainfall and high-velocity winds at speeds of up to 130 kmph on May 26-27.Deputy director at the IMD’s Randhi centre Abhishek Anand said, “Extreme rainfall is expected in some places such as East Singhbhum, West Singhbhum, Saraikela-Kharswan and Simdega district, on May 26.” He added the central part of Jharkhand, which comprises Ranchi, Bokaro, Gumla, Hazaribag, Khunti and Ramgarh, is likely to experience heavy to very heavy rainfall on Wednesday. “Hospitals have been asked to keep power back-up and oxygen storage at least for two days,” said a senior health official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-reviews-prep-mamata-questions-fund-allocation-101621888317120.html
25-05-2021||India||K’taka needs to invest more towards healthcare: State deputy CM||Karnataka is one of the most Covid-19 impacted regions in the country has seen nearly 26000 people succumb to the virus in the second wave. Though the state had initially fared well in containing the spread in the first half of 2020, the pandemic got the better of Karnataka, which has been, among other things, attributed to the indecisiveness of the BS Yediyurappa government. Dr CN Ashwath Narayan, deputy chief minister and chairperson of Karnataka’s Covid-19 task force in a interview with Sharan Poovanna , speaks about the past mistakes, learnings and the way forward in dealing with the pandemic and much more. Edited excerpts. How has Covid management been in Karnataka? Covid management has to be done at the primary level, but the focus goes on tertiary. In infectious diseases, management goes on basic levels, and we have to ensure it does not escalate or pressure starts to build on oxygen supply, medicine and other things. When this happens, basic level emphasis becomes tough. Unless we understand this, it would be difficult to work. Was this learning missing in the first wave? In the first wave, people only spoke if they were positive or negative. Once someone is infected, there is an incubation period and then there is just dead virus in the body. But if the immune process does not respond, then it continues to escalate and becomes a problem. We should understand this and work. But there is a lag in people reporting after getting the symptoms. The sixth-eighth day is very important and if the date of symptoms is recorded, it (disease) can be managed efficiently. What are the challenges in Covid-19 management during the second wave? There should be more emphasis on the basic levels, detection, creating awareness among people, etc. The best way is to presume that any symptom could be Covid-19 and they should immediately get a test done. That urgency should be from both the government and people. If this kind of connection is there, 90% of our job is done. This makes it easier to triage and then take appropriate action, whether to keep them in a Covid care centre (CCC) or in home isolation. In rural areas, it is better to keep people in CCC to control the spread and monitor them. To make it gold standard, inflammatory tests should be done. Were logistics like medication, ramping up beds and other requirements a big challenge? These medications do not cost much. All put together it will not cost more than ₹200-250 per person. Even if you give a pulse meter, it won’t be more than ₹700. The entire rush for hospital beds, oxygen and other things can be avoided if handled properly initially. That situation should not be allowed to arise. Majority of it has been handled. Compared to other countries, we are far superior in our care. But these situations shouldn’t come up. We saw the healthcare system in Bengaluru almost collapse. The demand was more. Our triaging system was not strong. Those people who do not require hospital, were also admitted. The numbers also increased drastically and there was no time to correct themselves. In the first wave, if there was a mistake, there was about a week to rectify it. This time there was less than one hour as the virus was spreading very fast. The incubation period in the first wave was 15 days and now it is 2-3 days. But damage could have been less. We predicted that the second wave will be more, but disease impact will be less. But both were more this time. Normally, it was believed that there would be less virility. When a virus mutates, incubation comes down and so does virility. But surprisingly, virility did not come down. By this estimate, the third wave should be more dangerous. Ideally, it shouldn’t be. But the second wave itself behaved so differently and it is difficult for us to tell. How are we preparing for the third wave and what are the challenges? We can’t predict this; but will need to scale up our health infrastructure. We are not at any loss if we prepare more. If you look at our health infrastructure, it was not that great. It needs to be scaled up even for our day-to-day needs. It should definitely be improved, and we need to spend a lot. There should be more towards healthcare investments. If we do not do it now, it will be a crime. Was there a clear lack of vision and decision making? Preparations had been done. Hospital beds have been scaled up to 25,000 oxygenated beds when compared to earlier. 3000 ventilators were also added but that was not enough. Demand for hospitalisation surged and duration of stay was very long. Some people refused to leave the hospital even after being cured. Several private players also failed. We needed proper manpower, systems but this did not happen. Had the government not predicted the scale of the second wave? No one knew the scale of the pandemic and how serious it would be. There was a belief that the second wave too would go the same way as the first one. There was no time to repair and set the process right. The technical advisory committee had warned the state government in November. Why was no action taken? The projections, mathematical models and other predictions were there. But many people didn’t take it seriously. They knew it would come, there was preparation and a system, but no one predicted the scale. Has the Centre’s decision to take control over vaccine, oxygen and medicine supply become a problem? Without the Centre’s intervention and managing the system, it would have been difficult. How can we negotiate since there is nothing that we manufacture? So, the support system was good, allocation, medicine procurement, if not for them who would ask pharma companies for Remdesivir. There was exemptions for raw materials. They (Centre) facilitated and worked hard to help ramp up services. Karnataka has floated a global tender. Can the likes of Pfizer and others also participate? Anyone can participate. There are some approvals and coordination that are required and there are certain criteria and conditions, but it can be done. We needed 65 million vaccines and we have placed orders for 30 million. But they (SII and Bharat Biotech) were taking time to supply and by this time there was a huge demand. We are trying hard to the best of our capability. We have done this for Remdesivir as well. You had said that everyone in the state can be vaccinated by the end of this year. Is this a realistic target? This is definitely possible. By August, we should have completed giving at least the single dose to 25-30 million people. We can reach over 20 million by August and by December we can provide everyone at least the single dose. Why was healthcare taken away from the BBMP? There was no expertise, infrastructure, manpower and capability. How much can BBMP spend? At the government level it is good and in BBMP, that priority is missing. We can replicate what we did at Zilla Panchayat level and make it accountable to BBMP. Bengaluru is the bread earner for the entire state, if there is a problem here then from where will the revenue generate for the state? The chief minister said that there will be no lockdown, but he did go back on his words. When the numbers increased, we couldn’t have managed without a lockdown. When numbers started to surge, people as well the opposition started demanding for a lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ktaka-needs-to-invest-more-towards-healthcare-state-deputy-cm-101621888387861.html
25-05-2021||India||K’taka districts put on alert for possible Oxygen shortage||Bengaluru: An emergency notice on a possible drop in oxygen supply on May 25 and 26 was issued to all districts and Bengaluru city administration on Monday after two liquid oxygen production plants in Bellary district stopped functioning due to technical problems. According to the Karnataka government, the production trouble at the two plants -- Air Water India and Praxair -- could possibly result in a shortfall of 220 metric tonnes of oxygen per day. The notice directed all districts to use the available lifesaving gas judiciously as a 20% shortfall in supply is expected on both the dates.“There is a crisis in oxygen availability as 220 tonnes production has reduced in Bellary due to production problems. It is likely to stabilise by Wednesday morning. Therefore, for the next 2 days, there is likely to be a reduction of 20% supply per day to all districts. Manage your oxygen usage carefully. Inform all hospitals and refillers” the notice read. The government, however, claimed that they have enough gas to mitigate the situation. “We have the issue due to tripping of plants. But we have done our best to minimise the impact, and everyone is in complete coordination to handle the situation. There is no need to panic. We have adequate buffer quantum to meet the situation,” Munish Moudgil, state nodal officer for oxygen supply, said. While the Centre’s daily oxygen allocation for Karnataka is 1,051 metric tonnes, the supply on ground is only around 885 metric tonnes, Moudgil added. “We are getting special supplies. These are not regular allotments but sporadic arrivals. Today (Monday), about 150 metric tonnes (were) brought by Linde. 109 metric tonnes came yesterday (Sunday) and were sent by Reliance Foundation. Like this, randomly, special allotments come and we are able to manage. Another 115 metric tonnes are coming tomorrow (Tuesday) from the government of India,” he said. “We are like a family who does not have a stable firm income beyond 765 metric tonnes and get sporadic help from different quarters daily to reach 850 metric tonnes,” Moudgil explained. As per data released by the state government, the oxygen consumption in the state stood at 822 metric tonnes on May 21 and 885 metric tonnes on May 22. Bengaluru alone consumed 308 metric tonnes and 340 metric tonnes of oxygen on these two days. “We had not done detailed accounting of oxygen consumption in BBMP as it is a mammoth exercise. All extra coming has been going to them. Now we did (an audit) along with BBMP and found a firmer figure (on oxygen consumption). And in BBMP, the consumption hasn’t reduced much despite the reduction in caseload from about 2.4 lakh to about 1.2 lakh. This is because ICU and ICU + ventilator beds have not come down in Bengaluru and that is the main reason for not much reduction in oxygen consumption in BBMP,” Moudgil said. Among other high oxygen-consuming districts, Mysuru consumed 54.8 metric tonnes and 55.9 metric tonnes on May 21 and May 22, respectively, followed by Ballari, which consumed 40.15 metric tonnes and 41.26 metric tonnes, and Dharwad that consumed 31.96 metric tonnes and 57.08 metric tonnes. Moudgil added that the government of India had increased the oxygen allotment to Karnataka to 1,200 metric tonnes and it is likely to become effective in a day or two (after May 25). “However, a good part of it was allotted from Maharashtra. Lifting that isn’t going to be easy,” he added. On May 7, the Supreme Court had turned down the Centre’s plea to stay the Karnataka high court order directing it to immediately increase the supply of medical oxygen to the state from 962 metric tonnes per day to 1,200 metric tonnes per day in view of the spike in the number of active Covid-19 cases. On May 5, while hearing a public interest litigation, the high court had noted that the projected requirement of oxygen in Karnataka was 1,471 metric tonnes per day as of April 30, whereas the Centre had agreed to enhance it from 862 metric tonnes to only 962 MT per day. It also recorded a statement of Karnataka’s additional chief secretary that the requirement of oxygen in the state was likely to go up to 1,792 metric tonnes by May 5.The high court then directed the Karnataka government to submit a representation to the Union government while ordering that till this representation was considered, the Centre will supply 1,200 metric tonnes of oxygen per day to the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ktaka-districts-put-on-alert-for-possible-oxygen-shortage-101621888267877.html
25-05-2021||India||Ministerial vacancies in focus as govt nears 2 years of term||As the Bharatiya Janata Party-led NDA government completes the second year of its second consecutive term in office on May 30, the focus has again shifted to vacancies that have arisen in the union council of ministers will be filled any time soon -- especially in the context of reports that leaders who joined the party in the past year-and-half, or gave up claims to positions in their state, would be accommodated at the Centre.But that isn’t the only second anniversary coming up. May 25 will mark two years of the position of the deputy speaker of the Lok Sabha lying vacant -- ever since the AIADMK’s M Thambidurai demitted office on May 25, 2019.People aware of the thinking in party and government circles said there is no indication of when the much-awaited cabinet expansion or reshuffle will take place, even though there was considerable speculation that a rejig in the cabinet was imminent after the first wave of the pandemic.As on date, four ministers have additional charge of ministries after the incumbent passed on, suffered an ailment or injury, or broke away from the NDA. There’s union minister for information and broadcasting, Prakash Javadekar who in addition to environment and forests also has the charge of heavy industries since November 2019 when the Shiv Sena pulled out of the NDA . The Shiv Sena’s Arvind Sawant earlier held that portfolio.Union Minister for Railways Piyush Goyal was given additional charge of the consumer affairs ministry in October after the passing of LJP leader Ram Vilas Paswan. With Paswan’s passing the union cabinet does not have a single non-BJP minister. Only Ramdas Athawale of the RPI, an NDA ally is a minister of state in the council of ministers.Similarly, Narendra Singh Tomar, who was already handling three ministries, agriculture, rural development and panchayati raj, was given the additional charge of ministry of food processing in September last year after Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal quit the cabinet as her party, Akali Dal decided to quit the NDA over the farm laws.After the passing of Suresh Angadi in September , the position of Minister of State for Railways has also been lying vacant.More recently, union minister for sports Kiren Rijiju was given additional charge of the Ayush ministry after Shripad Naik who has independent charge of the ministry was injured in a road accident in January. Naik is still recuperating.“There are some vacancies that need to be filled. There are some hopefuls who have been expecting to land a position in the council of ministers but so far there is no clarity on when this will be done. At present the government has its hands full trying to control the second wave of the corona pandemic,” said a senior party leader who asked not to be named.The council of ministers currently has 21 cabinet ministers. There are nine ministers of state with independent charge; of these, Rajkumar Singh, Mansukh Mandviya, Jitender Singh, Rijiju, Hardeep Puri and Naik are also ministers of state with additional ministries. The total number of ministers of state is 23.The ruling dispensation has lost three allies, the Shiv Sena, the Akali Dal and the LJP since 2019. Nitish Kumar’s Janata Dal (United), rejoined the NDA in 2017, but it does not have representation in the Centre.The government has also not proposed any candidate for the Lok Sabha Deputy Speaker’s post for two years. This is the longest period for which that post has remained vacant. When Atal Behari Vajpayee became PM for the second time in March 1998, it took almost nine months to decide on the deputy speaker’s post before it went to Congress leader PM Sayeed who took oath on September 17, 1998.Parliament managers pointed out that the Deputy Speaker’s post, by convention, goes to an Opposition party. With the BJP averse to the Congress getting that post, the government was looking at options from other Opposition parties. It is believed to have approached Odisha CM Naveen Patnaik for a nominee from his party, the BJD. But Patnaik didn’t show much interest.Commenting on the deputy speaker’s post, a second BJP functionary who asked not to be named said: “No decision has been taken so far. Since the pandemic has also affected the functioning of Parliament, it is likely that the process will pick up pace once sessions can be resumed normally.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ministerial-vacancies-in-focus-as-govt-nears-2-years-of-term-101621887799821.html
25-05-2021||India||Yaas may intensify into very severe cyclonic storm: IMD||The deep depression over east-central Bay of Bengal intensified into a cyclonic storm, Yaas, on Monday morning, and is very likely to intensify into a ‘severe cyclonic storm’ by Monday night and a ‘very severe cyclonic storm’ in the subsequent 24 hours, India Meteorological Department (IMD) has said.Yaas (pronounced Yass) is likely to reach the north Odisha and West Bengal coasts between Paradip and Sagar islands close to Balasore in Odisha on May 26 early morning as a ‘very severe cyclonic storm’ with wind speeds of up to 166 km/hr. After crossing the coast in the afternoon, it will intensify further.IMD had earlier said Yass would make landfall around Wednesday evening, but on Monday, it advanced the time. “Once Yaas intensifies into a ‘severe cyclone’, we expect its travel over the sea to be faster, which is why the time of landfall has been advanced,” said Sunitha Devi who tracks cyclones at IMD. She added that at the time of landfall, wind speed will be up to 165 km/hr, with gusts up to 185 km/hr.Although oceanic and atmospheric conditions over Bay of Bengal are extremely favourable for intensification of Yaas, experts hope it won’t become an ‘extremely severe cyclone’ as it has formed relatively close to the coast and has less time to travel over the unusually warm sea. Matthew Roxy Koll, a climate scientist at Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology, Pune, had said on Sunday that north Bay of Bengal, where the cyclone is forming, is very warm with surface temperatures reaching up to 32 degrees Celsius — 1-2 degrees above normal. “However, since the distance between the location of cyclogenesis and landfall is short, the cyclone won’t spend much time over the ocean. This will prevent it from intensifying into an extremely severe cyclone,” Koll had said.But IMD scientists do not rule out the possibility of further intensification. “Comparatively, its time over sea is less. Cyclone Fani (2019) had formed over Andaman Sea, and Amphan (2020) had also formed towards the south. After Aila (2009), this is probably the first to be comparatively closer to the coast. The landfall location of Yaas will be slightly to the west compared to Amphan, which made landfall over the Sunderbans,” Devi said.But whether Yaas intensifies into an extremely severe cyclone or not, a lot of people are in harm’s way. “Millions of people are in the path of Yaas as it barrels towards Odisha and West Bengal. These include coastal and river-side communities living in immediately floodable areas and vulnerable houses, as well as marginal families living in slums and shanties that are expected to be impacted severely,” said Anshu Sharma, co-founder, Sustainable Environment and Ecological Development Society, an NGO.He also expressed serious concern about these regions still struggling with a high number of Covid cases, as that complicates evacuation and rescue operations. “Given the scale of the cyclone, we need to be conscious of a sizable number of people with special needs who may be impacted besides Covid patients, including pregnant women, infants, persons with disabilities and those out of work and resources due to the lockdowns,” Sharma said.The cyclone will give rise to tidal waves as high as 4 metres, which might inundate low-lying coastal areas of Jhargram, South 24 Parganas and Midnapore in West Bengal, and Balasore, Bhadrak, Kendrapara and Jagatsinghpur districts in Odisha, around the time of landfall.Light to moderate rain at many places with heavy falls at isolated places over coastal Odisha is likely on Monday, with heavy to very heavy rain over some areas, and extremely heavy rain (over 20 cm) at isolated places in Jagatsinghpur, Cuttack, Kendrapara, Jajpur and Bhadrak on May 26.In West Bengal and Sikkim, light to moderate rain was expected at most places, with heavy falls at isolated places in the coastal districts of West Bengal on Monday. Gale winds with speeds up to 90 km/hr have been blowing already over west-central and east-central Bay of Bengal.Squalls with speeds of 110 km/hr are likely to blow from May 26 early morning and gradually intensify to up to 185 km/hr over northwest Bay of Bengal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/yaas-may-intensify-into-very-severe-cyclonic-storm-imd-101621885032984.html
25-05-2021||India||Mehul Choksi goes missing in Antigua, claims lawyer||Fugitive diamantaire Mehul Choksi has gone missing, prompting the Antigua police to launch a manhunt for the scam accused, his lawyer Vijay Aggarwal claimed early on Tuesday. The confirmation came shortly after local reports from Antigua, where Choksi has sought refuge as a citizen, stated that he left his home on Monday "to go for dinner at a well-known restaurant in the southern part of the island and was never seen again".The diamond merchant's vehicle was found in Jolly Harbour later in the evening without any trace of him, a report by antiguanewsroom.com stated.Talking to HT, Choksi's lawyer Aggarwal said, "Mehul Choksi is missing. His family members are worried and anxious and had called me to discuss. Antigua police are investigating. Family is in the dark and worried about his safety.”The 61-year-old Indian businessman and the owner of retail jewellery Gitanjali group is wanted by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and Enforcement Directorate (ED) in connection with a multi-crore scam.Also read: Mehul Choksi challenged move to revoke citizenship, says lawyerChoksi is accused of siphoning off close to ₹7,080 crore in the ₹13,578 crore Punjab National Bank (PNB) fraud before fleeing to Antigua on January 4, 2018, a month before the mega-scam came to notice.An arrest warrant for Choksi has been issued in connection with the alleged PNB fraud case. He was allegedly involved in stock market manipulation in 2013.In a charge sheet filed last year, the ED claimed Choksi didn’t just cheat Indian banks but customers and lenders in Dubai and the United States as well. His assets worth ₹2,500 crore have already been attached.Earlier in March this year, Antigua and Barbuda has initiated the process to cancel the fugitive diamantaire’s citizenship granted under the Caribbean nation’s Citizenship by Investment Programme (CIP) in November 2017 but he challenged the government’s move in court.Also read: Mehul Choksi moves Delhi high court against Netflix documentary ‘Bad Boy Billionaires’Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had claimed in March this year that fugitive businessmen Vijaya Mallya, Nirav Modi and Mehul Choksi are "coming back to India" to face the law.The three businessmen are all coming back to face law of the land, Sitharaman said in the Rajya Sabha while replying to a debate on the insurance amendment bill.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fugitive-diamantaire-mehul-choksi-goes-missing-antigua-police-launches-manhunt-101621885237942.html
25-05-2021||India||Use RBI-approved ₹99k-crore for Covid jabs: Kerala HC to Centre||Thiruvananthapuram: The Kerala high court on Monday suggested that the Centre provide free Covid-19 vaccines to citizens by using the recent dividends of more than ₹99,000 crore from the Reserve Bank of India (RBI). Hearing a petition questioning the different price regimes for vaccines and its subsequent scarcity, the single bench headed by Justice Vinod Chandran observed that the Centre can use ₹34,000 crore to inoculate 137 crore people in the country byutilising the ₹99,000 crore that was recently approved by the central bank. “You have an additional income from the RBI, why don’t you use it for this purpose. We are asking you to ask your policy makers about this,” the court told the counsel for the Union government. During the hearing, the counsel for the petitioner contended that the production of vaccination was reduced after the new policy, wherein 50% of the vaccine supply will be managed by the Centre while the remaining will be procured by the states directly from manufacturers, was introduced from May 1. However, Raj Kumar, counsel for the Centre, told the court that vaccines were being given free of cost to people above 45 years of age and about 80 lakh vaccines were already given to the state. Citing it as a policy matter, Kumar sought more time to file a response. At this point, the court said this was not the time to look into matters of federalism and Centre-state relations. It later adjourned the hearing till May 31 for a detailed statement from the Centre. In Kerala, approximately 20 lakh people have received both the doses and about 60 lakh have received only the first jab so far. The state, meanwhile, reported 17,821 new cases on Monday while 87,331 samples were tested with a test positivity rate of 20.41 per cent. The state also reported 196 deaths. The active cases stood at 259,179, according to the data released by the state health ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/use-rbi-approved-99k-crore-for-covid-jabs-kerala-hc-to-centre-101621884789643.html
25-05-2021||India||TN govt seeks ban on Family Man-2 web series||Chennai: The Tamil Nadu government on Monday wrote to Union Information and Broadcasting minister Prakash Javadekar seeking a ban on The Family Man 2 web series across the country.The state said that the Hindi series, which will release on June 4 on a digital platform ‘depicts the Eelam Tamils in a highly objectionable manner’ and called the content ‘condemnable’ and ‘malicious’.“It is aimed at discrediting and distorting the historical struggle of Eelam Tamils in Sri Lanka,” the statement read. “For example, branding Tamil-speaking actress Samantha Akkineni as a terrorist in the serial is directly an attack on the pride of Tamils living around the world and no one will tolerate this kind of motivated and mischievous campaign,” a statement read.The first person to call for a ban on the series was Tamil nationalist and chief of Naam Tamizhar Katchi (NTK) S Seeman. He was more vocal about the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE) being portrayed as a terrorist organisation and Tamils as violent people. The LTTE was a militant separatist group fighting for an independent homeland for Hindu Tamils in Northeastern Sri Lanka. “If they refuse to ban the show and if they release it country-wide to try and create a false impression about Tamil people, I warn that they will have to face dire consequences,” Seeman had said in a statement last week.On Sunday, Marumalarchi Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (MDMK) chief Vaiko also wrote to Javadekar to stop the release.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tn-govt-seeks-ban-on-family-man-2-web-series-101621884727767.html
25-05-2021||India||2.16bn Covid jabs will be made available by end of 2021, Centre tells Madras HC||Chennai: The Centre on Monday informed the Madras high court that 2.16 billion doses of Covid-19 vaccine would be made available by the end of the year for every Indian to be fully vaccinated.This submission was recorded during a suo moto case being heard by the first bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy on Covid-19 preparedness in Tamil Nadu and Puducherry.Additional Solicitor-General R Shankaranarayanan informed the court that the possible disruption due to Cyclone Yaas has been taken into consideration by the central government in terms of oxygen supply for Covid patients.However, the court said that the future of allocation of vaccines for Tamil Nadu appeared disappointing. The Centre in its affidavit maintained that the allocation is based on the population of a state but the court suggested revisiting such criteria and rather looking at objective factors such as a high positivity rate. “However, there is hope that vaccines would be available in great numbers upon various manufacturing units augmenting their production facilities,” the court said.The Centre has also indicated that measures have been put in place to manufacture the drugs that are in short supply to treat cases of mucormycosis. The case was adjourned to May 27.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/216bn-covid-jabs-will-be-made-available-by-end-of-2021-centre-tells-madras-hc-101621884667716.html
25-05-2021||India||2008 Andhra highway killings: 12 sentenced to death, 7 get life imprisonment||Hyderabad: A local court in Ongole in Andhra Pradesh on Monday sentenced 12 members of a gang to death and seven other to life imprisonment for killing 13 truck drivers and cleaners on Chennai-Kolkata highway in 2008. District eighth additional sessions court judge G Manohar Reddy, who heard arguments over the prosecution’s charge sheet in seven different cases, pronounced the judgement in four cases. The judge also sentenced seven others of the gang to life imprisonment. The Andhra Pradesh high court will have to affirm the death sentence.Mohammad Abdul Samad alias Munna and his gang committed these crimes in 2008. According to Prakasam district police, Munna used to masquerade as a commercial tax officer and stop trucks coming with heavy loads of goods on the Chennai-Kolkata national highway (NH-16) passing through the district, in the name of checking their documents. “As the driver and cleaner got down from the vehicle, he would strangulate them driver and cleaner with the help of his accomplices and divert the truck to an unknown place. He stuffed the bodies of the victims in gunny bags and bury them deep in the forest areas. Later, he would dismantle the trucks into scrap and sell them along with the goods over a period of time,” a police official said. In a span of a few months in 2008, Munna and his gang killed as many as 13 persons. “The missing of trucks along with drivers and cleaners became a challenge for the Prakasam police those days. A thorough investigation by the police led to the arrest of Munna and his men within a short period in 2009,” the police official said. In 2013, Munna was released on bail in one of the cases and he fled to Kurnool, where he allegedly hatched a plan to eliminate a businessman. He was arrested at Nandyal in Kurnool district in January 2014 and has been in jail since then. The accused were charged under various sections of Indian Penal Code including Sections 396 (any one of five or more persons, who are conjointly committing dacoity, commits murder in so committing dacoity), 120-B (criminal conspiracy ), 400 (dacoity by a gang), 412 ( possessing stolen property) and 414 (Concealing and disposing of stolen property), besides Section 25 (1-A) of Arms Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2008-andhra-highway-killings-12-sentenced-to-death-7-get-life-imprisonment-101621884607737.html
25-05-2021||India||TN teacher suspended over sexual harassment charges||Chennai: A teacher of a prominent city school on Monday was suspended pending an inquiry after multiple allegations of sexual harassment by past as well as present students surfaced against him on social media.The Padma Seshadri Bala Bhavan (PSBB) Senior Secondary School, meanwhile, claimed that no complaints were made against the teacher, who taught commerce, in the past.A special police team led by Crimes against Women and Children (CWC) deputy commissioner of police H Jayalakshmi visited the school to probe the case. School education minister Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi told reporters that he has asked officials of the concerned education department to look into the allegations. “The chief education officer has enquired with the school management. The school has informed us that they will set up a committee to look into the issue,” Poyyamozhi said. The incident came to light after an alumna shared an instance of sexual harassment against the teacher on Instagram on Sunday. Likewise, several students came forward and accused the teacher of making inappropriate jokes; one of them claimed that he had even invited her for a movie. Another student alleged that the school had failed to act against the accused despite several complaints. The issue escalated after Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) MPs Kanimozhi and Dayanidhi Maran called for strict action. While Kanimozhi called for action against the teacher and school authorities who failed to act despite complaints, Maran wrote to Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal to direct the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) to probe the lapses in addressing the issue. Following the allegations on Instagram, over 1,000 alumni of the school wrote to the management, demanding the immediate suspension of the teacher pending investigation. The alumni alleged that despite several complaints against the accused, who has been teaching for more than 20 years in the school, authorities did not initiate any action besides a verbal warning. The alumni noted that the accused routinely harassed girl students, physically touched them with sexual intent and warned of retaliation if they complained.The alumni also said that the teacher had access to contact numbers of all students since classes had moved online in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. In their petition to school authorities, the alumni demanded that the teacher be excluded from all academic activity, including grading students in their exams or evaluating them till the investigation into the case is completed. “Ensure that the identity of minors and school children are protected, and no adverse, penal, or retaliatory action is taken against them in any regard,” the petition added. “It pains us that despite the fact that complaints and concerns about (the accused, name withheld) has been escalated in the past, it has not been dealt with the rigorous expectations of an institution like PSBB and we hope that the same will be addressed effectively now.”A section of students belonging to the 2007 batch, however, came in support of the teacher, and demanded a fair probe into the incident. In a statement later in the day, the school refuted charges that complaints against the accused were raised in the past. “We would like to assure you that our school has zero tolerance towards any behaviour that adversely affects the physical, emotional and psychological well being of our students,” the statement signed by the principal and dean of the school said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tn-teacher-suspended-over-sexual-harassment-charges-101621884547743.html
25-05-2021||India||Andhra declares Krishnapatnam medicine safe||Hyderabad The Andhra Pradesh government on Monday declared the medicine distributed by ayurveda practitioner Bonige Anandaiah of Krishnapatnam village in Nellore district to treat Covid-19 patients as “safe and harmless”. Andhra Pradesh Ayush commissioner Ramulu Naik on Monday told reporters in Vijayawada that the study conducted by a team of experts from the department has revealed that there were no harmful substances in the medicine distributed by Anandaiah. He said 18 herbs were used in the preparation of the medicine and all were safe with proven medicinal qualities. “So far, 80,000 people have consumed this medicine. We spoke to some of them and there were no complaints from anyone,” Naik said. He, however, said the medicine could not be certified as an ayurvedic medicine, as it should be decided based on the rules of Drugs and Cosmetics Act. “As such, we cannot call it an ayurvedic medicine for the cure of Covid-19. The government will look into the possibility of allowing it for distribution in some other form,” Naik said. On Sunday, state principal secretary (medical and health) Anil Kumar Singhal said the government had in-principle no objection to allow Anandaiah to continue distribution of the medicine but added that a final decision would be taken after going through the reports from the Ayush department and an expert team constituted to look into it. A team from the Ayurvedic College in Tirupati and another from the Central Council for Research in Ayurvedic Studies, New Delhi, were also studying the efficacy of the medicine, said an official. Earlier, the chief minister’s office had said that an eight-member team of experts from Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) would visit the village to study Anandaiah’s medicine, but the team dropped its plan after the Ministry of Ayush took over the study, said an official in the state secretariat familiar with the development. Anandaiah, who has been practising herbal medicine for several years, became popular following reports in the local media a few days ago that a medicine he prepared could cure Covid-19 patients. As the news spread, hundreds of people started coming to Krishnapatnam village to take the medicine, which was being distributed free of cost. Last week, YSR Congress Party legislator from Sarvepalli Kakani Goverdhan Reddy said the medicine would be distributed formally to all patients with effect from Friday. As a result, thousands of people from different parts of Andhra Pradesh and even neighbouring states thronged Krishnapatnam village in Nellore district. However, following instructions from the Jagan Mohan Reddy government, district officials immediately stopped Anandaiah from distributing the medicine as thousands of people started making a beeline to his clinic, breaking the Covid-19 restrictions. The chief minister ordered a comprehensive study into the efficacy of the medicine in consultation with the Centre. Nellore collector K V Chakradhar Babu had earlier said the formula and ingredients of the medicine would be sent to a lab in Hyderabad for analysis. “Depending on the findings, people can approach relevant authorities to obtain permissions through pre-established procedures for distribution of the medicine,” the collector had said. Ayush commissioner said the lab reports from Hyderabad gave a positive report on Krishnapatnam medicine. “We are awaiting three more reports from various labs. Based on these reports, the government would take a call on allowing the distribution of medicine,” Naik said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-declares-krishnapatnam-medicine-safe-101621884487744.html
25-05-2021||India||MPs seek recall of Lakshadweep administrator over ‘anti-people’ reforms||Two members of Parliament on Monday wrote to the President against various measures taken by the acting administrator of Lakshadweep, Praful Khoda Patel, which they said, would “destroy unique culture and tradition of the Indian Ocean group of islands”.Patel, the administrator of the Union Territory of Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu was given additional charge of Lakshadweep in December last year following the demise of Dineshwar Sharma, who was former Intelligence Bureau chief.Lakshadweep MP, Nationalist Congress Party’s Mohammed Faizal and his colleague from neighbouring Kerala, Elamaram Kareem (Communist Party of India-Marxist) have urged the Centre to recall Patel, the administrator of India’s smallest union territory.The MPs alleged that the former Gujarat minister unilaterally decided to introduce norms for mandatory acquiring of private property for development, anti-Goonda rules that gave police powers to detain anyone, remove beef from the mid-day meal, cut trees for road expansion projects and introduce two-child norm for contesting in local body elections without any consultation with people.The Congress and CPI(M) joined hands to oppose his decisions, saying Patel was trying to “saffronise the island” where almost 95% population is Muslim.Kareem on Monday sought immediate intervention of the President, saying Patel’s decision to remove quarantine centre in Kochi for persons coming to the island from abroad has resulted in surge on Covid cases. The MP said the island had contained infections effectively till last December, but now test positivity rate has gone above 40%. Earlier, infected people were quarantined in Kochi and were allowed to proceed to islands two weeks after testing negative, but this facility was scrapped after Patel took the charge.Kareem, in his letter, said people were really worried because the island, home to 70,000, did not have super specialty hospitals or enough oxygen reserves. “This unplanned and unscientific altering of the SOPs led to surge in cases in the island where not even a single case was reported till December 2020,” Kareem said.“We want the Union government to recall him. I have already spoken to Prime Minister (Narendra) Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah. He can’t bulldoze values and traditions of the island like this. If the government ignores our plea, we will be forced to start an agitation,” said NCP leader and Lakshadweep MP Mohammad Faizal.Faizal, who is a second-term MP from the island, said new rules like two-child norm for local body polls, removal of beef from the mid-day meal scheme and goonda act were an insult to local people. He added that according to the National Crime Records Bureau, the island has “lowest crime rate in the country and its small jails are almost empty”.The MP said some of Patel’s decisions were against the recommendations of Justice Raveendran Commission appointed by the Supreme Court in 2012 to look into allegations of some private resorts allowed in violation of coastal zone regulations. “His moves to widen roads, and develop inner areas are against the integrated island management plan mooted by the commission. You can’t develop it as a major tourism hub by hurting sentiments of local people. All elected representatives are kept in the dark,” he said.Stating that some of the administrator’s orders and promulgations were with ulterior motives to destroy traditional life and diversity of people, Kareem said, “These steps were taken without an iota of consideration towards people’s livelihood and food. Hundreds of casual and contract labourers were thrown out of their jobs after he assumed power.”Congress leader V T Balram and many film celebrities like actor Prithviraj have also aired their protest. “These reforms are bizzare. When an entire community is unhappy with the decisions taken by a nominated authority, I hope people in power will hear their voice. I have faith in our system and even more faith in the people. It is one of the most beautiful places on earth with even more beautiful people living there,” Prithviraj said in his recent social media post.Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan has also condemned the move to introduce certain reforms, which, he said, will affect the culture and tradition of the island. “Kerala has close relations with island for many years. Reports from the island are really disturbing. It seems there is a concerted move to dilute the tradition of Lakshadweep. We condemn such moves and we will always support residents’ endeavor to protect their customs,” he said in the state capital.Parful Khoda Patel was the minister of state for home in Gujarat cabinet when Narendra Modi was the chief minister. In 2016, he was appointed as the administrator of Dadra and Nagar Haveli and later also became the administrative head of Daman and Diu. He has had a running feud with district collector and IAS officer Kannan Gopinathan, who later resigned from the civil service.Patel was not available for his comments despite repeated requests.Meanwhile, defending Patel, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) claimed that the protests were a result of his efforts to end “corrupt practices” involving local politicians prevalent and usher in development there.BJP national vice-president AP Abdullakutty, the party’s prabhari in Lakshadweep, alleged the opposition MPs were protesting as Patel took certain steps to end the “corrupt practices” of politicians in the islands.Claiming that the local people were happy with the administration, he alleged that an atmosphere of tension has been created through the media and social media by certain fundamentalist groups operating from Kerala.“Unfortunately, these MPs are playing to the tunes of such outfits without realising the truth,” Abdullakutty said.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mps-seek-recall-of-lakshadweep-administrator-over-anti-people-reforms-101621884427759.html
25-05-2021||India||Sputnik V production to begin soon in India||The developers of Russia’s Sputnik V Covid-19 vaccine and Panacea Biotec on Monday announced that full-scale production of the doses in India will start this summer.The Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF), or Russia’s sovereign wealth fund, has tied up with Indian pharmaceutical firms such as Gland Pharma, Hetero Biopharma, Panacea Biotec, Stelis Biopharma and Virchow Biotech to make more than 850 million doses a year.Sputnik V has been granted approval for emergency use by India’s drug controller.“The first batch produced at Panacea Biotec’s facilities at Baddi will be shipped to the Gamaleya Center (in Russia) for quality control. Full-scale production of the vaccine is due to start this summer. The company’s facilities comply with GMP [good manufacturing practice] standards and are prequalified by the WHO,” RDIF said in a statement.Sputnik V was registered in India under the emergency use authorisation procedure on April 12 and use of the Russian vaccine started on May 14.RDIF and Panacea Biotec have agreed to produce 100 million doses a year of Sputnik V.RDIF chief executive officer Kirill Dmitriev said: “Launch of production in India in partnership with Panacea Biotec marks an important step in helping the country fight the pandemic. Production of Sputnik V supports efforts of India’s authorities to leave behind the acute phase of coronavirus as soon as possible while the vaccine will also be exported at a later stage to help prevent the spread of the virus in other countries.”Rajesh Jain, managing director of Panacea Biotec, said: “This marks a significant step as we initiate production of Sputnik V. Together with RDIF, we hope to help bring a sense of normalcy back to people across the country and around the world.”Russia has also announced plans to ship 18 million doses of Sputnik V to India, including three million doses in May, five million doses in June, and 10 million in July. However, some questions have arisen about the Russian side’s ability to meet these commitments due to the production facilities in Russia being stretched by demands from around the world.Dr Reddy’s has tied up with RDIF for the distribution of Sputnik V in India, including both made-in-Russia doses and locally manufactured shots.Sputnik V has so far been registered in 66 countries with a total population of more than 3.2 billion. RDIF and Gamaleya Center have said the efficacy of Sputnik V is 97.6%, based on analysis of data on coronavirus infection rate among those vaccinated in Russia with both doses of Sputnik V from December 5, 2020 to March 31, 2021.The vaccine is based on the platform of human adenoviral vectors and uses two different vectors for the two doses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sputnik-v-production-to-begin-soon-in-india-101621883370209.html
25-05-2021||India||Non-compliance with new guidelines will invite action: Centre to social media companies||The Union government has warned social media companies of action if they do not comply with new guidelines under the law as their three-month window to take steps such as appoint a chief compliance officer and a grievance officer closes this week.The guidelines are part of new rules framed under the Information Technology Act, by which the government has sought to put in place a stricter regulatory mechanism that companies like Facebook, Twitter and YouTube will need to abide by.“The rules were notified on February 25 and social media intermediaries have been given three months to comply,” said an official, asking not to be named. “So far, none of the prominent significant social media intermediaries have sent the ministry any intimation of such appointments. It is not necessary they inform the ministry, they can even furnish the details on the website. Either way, they have to comply.”Information Technology (Guidelines for intermediaries and digital media ethics code) Rules, 2021 were notified by the ministry on February 25 for social media intermediaries such as Twitter and Facebook, and over-the-top (OTT) platforms such as Netflix, Hotstar and Amazon.It mandated a three-tier self-regulatory structure for streaming platforms and increased due diligence by social media companies and data sharing, such as information about the first originator, with enforcement agencies. Significant social media intermediaries are defined as platforms that have 50,000 users or more.Under part four of the new guidelines, significant social media intermediaries were required to appoint a compliance officer, “responsible for ensuring compliance with the Act and rules” and be “liable in any proceedings relating to any relevant third-party information, data or communication link made available or hosted by that intermediary where he fails to ensure that such intermediary observes due diligence while discharging its duties under the Act”.Intermediaries are also required to appoint a nodal contact person for 24x7 coordination with law enforcement agencies and a Resident Grievance Officer.HT reached out to Twitter, Facebook and WhatsApp but did not receive a response until press time.A second official familiar with the matter said that soon as the rules were notified, they became a legal framework. “According to part 7 of the new guidelines, if the intermediary does not follow the rules, it is liable for punishment under Indian law, as section 79 of the (IT) Act will no longer apply.” Section 79 provides intermediaries “safe habour”, that is, exemption from punishment for third party content posted on its website.Section seven of the new guidelines states — “Where an intermediary fails to observe these rules, the provisions of sub-section (1) of section 79 of the Act shall not be applicable to such intermediary and the intermediary shall be liable for punishment under any law for the time being in force including the provisions of the Act and the Indian Penal Code.”Asia Pacific Policy director at Access Now Raman Chima said that revocation of safe harbour is something for the Court to decide. “The Union government does not have the sole authority to device how internet intermediaries are able to make use of the legal protection granted to them by Parliament. Whether the Government’s rules are constitutional - and whether partial or incomplete compliance impacts this legal immunity provided in law - will ultimately be decided by judges, and not just by the executive branch.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/noncompliance-with-new-guidelines-will-invite-action-centre-to-social-media-companies-101621882808192.html
25-05-2021||India||Modi-led committee shortlists names for CBI director’s post||New Delhi: A three-member committee headed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi finalised the names of senior officers to become the next director of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) but Congress member Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury strongly objected to the selection process, officials aware of developments said on Monday.The meeting -- comprising Modi, Chief Justice of India NV Ramana and Congress Lok Sabha floor leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury -- started at the PM’s 7, Lok Kalyan Marg residence around 6.30pm on Monday and lasted around 90 minutes. The panel finalised the names of Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) director general (DG) Subodh Kumar Jaiswal, Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) director general Kumar Rajesh Chandra and special secretary, internal security in the Union home ministry VSK Kaumudi, said the officials quoted above. The name of Uttar Pradesh director general of police (DGP) Hitesh Chandra Awasthi was also discussed, added the officials. One of these four officers will be appointed for the coveted post and an order will be issued by the Appointments Committee of the Cabinet (ACC) shortly, said a person familiar with the process. The position of CBI chief has been lying vacant since February 3, when Rishi Kumar Shukla completed his tenure. Praveen Sinha has been working as interim chief of the premier agency since then. After the meeting, Chowdhury accused the government of adopting a “casual and superficial” approach and questioned the shortlisting process, saying it was in conflict with the mandate of the selection committee.“I have raised objections on the procedural lapses. It is the mandate of the selection committee to omit or include names of candidates for the post, then how can the DoPT (department of personnel and training) do such shortlisting,” he said.Chowdhary alleged that 109 names were first sent to him at 1 pm on Monday without any details of their work experience. At 4.30pm, a list of 10 names were sent to him and later six more names were added, he alleged.“The DoPT should not adopt a casual and superficial approach in the selection process,” Chowdhury said, adding that it was up to the committee to select or omit names of probables.A Congress leader said Chowdhury suggested the meeting be deferred. But as other members of the panel didn’t want to postpose it, Chowdhury offered to give his note of disagreement, the Congress leader added. Earlier this month, a list of over 100 Indian Police Service (IPS) officers from 1984 to 1987 batches was given to the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) after clearance by home ministry and Department of Personnel and Training (DoPT), said an officer on condition of anonymity. Jaiswal, a 1985-batch IPS officer, is a former Maharashtra director general of police. He is at present the director general of CISF.Kaumudi, a 1986-batch IPS officer of Andhra Pradesh cadre, has earlier worked in CBI as superintendent of police (SP) Delhi and Patna. He was also additional DG in the National Investigation Agency (NIA). He headed the Jammu and Kashmir Zone of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) and currently heads the apex police research body Bureau of Police Research and Development. In his stint in Andhra Pradesh Police, he worked as SP of Adilabad and Guntur districts as well as joint commissioner of Hyderabad and commissioner of Visakhapatnam. Awasthi, DGP of UP Police since March last year, earlier served in CBI for almost 13 years as joint director and other senior ranks. He briefly headed the anti-corruption unit in the agency that probed the 2G spectrum allocation scam. Chandra, a 1985-batch officer of Bihar cadre, earlier served as additional DG (intelligence) in Bihar, inspector general in Special Protection Group (SPG) handling Prime Minister’s security, and director general of Bureau of Civil Aviation Security (BCAS), before being appointed as head of SSB in January 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modiled-committee-shortlists-names-for-cbi-director-s-post-101621882507671.html
25-05-2021||India||Delhi police visit Twitter offices in city, Gurugram over ‘toolkit case’||The Delhi Police on Monday said they have sought a clarification from Twitter in connection with a tweet by Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP’s) national spokesperson Sambit Patra about an alleged toolkit released by the Congress party that the micorblogging site tagged as “manipulated media.”Delhi Police officers on Monday evening visited offices in South Delhi’s Lado Sarai and Golf Course Road in Gurugram. A police team from Lodhi Colony’s special cell visited the offices to secure the participation of Twitter’s managing director Manish Maheshwari as part of the probe.“The person(Manish Maheshwari) who had to join investigation said he is not the concerned person. He sent a reply to the DCP of special cell that he was part of Twitter India and not Twitter Inc. Any tagging to that concerned tweet was done by Twitter Inc. Though his bio said he is the MD of Twitter in India. So we visited the Twitter office to summon the concerned and verify his claims. This is just a preliminary inquiry,” a senior police officer said. The visit came after the special cell of Delhi Police asked Twitter to explain the “manipulated media” tag.The city police’s special cell has been conducting an enquiry into a complaint filed with the police chief and the Tughlak Road police station on May 18 by two Congress party leaders, seeking a first information report (FIR) against some BJP leaders for allegedly “forging documents, and circulating fabricated material on Twitter under the hashtag CongressToolkitExposed.” No FIR was registered till Monday evening in the matter, the police said.Twitter flagged the Patra tweet on Friday. In his tweet, Patra released details of the Toolkit, a social media campaign playbook, that the Congress allegedly prepared to defame Prime Minister Narendra Modi and build a biased narrative over India’s management of Covid-19, and the Central Vista project. The IT ministry has already written to Twitter , expressing its displeasure at the tagging, and asking it to remove the “manipulated media” descriptor.“Delhi Police is enquiring into a complaint in which clarification is sought from the Twitter regarding the classification of a tweet by Sambit Patra as manipulated . It appears that Twitter has some information which is not known to us on the basis of which they have classified it as such....” the Delhi Police said in a statement released on Monday evening by their spokesperson Chinmoy Biswal.Twitter did not respond to queries on the incident.Rajeev Gowda, who heads the Congress’s research department on Monday said, “This is an effort to cover up the whole thing. The BJP hatched a conspiracy to cook up a forged document and they have been caught. Now they are trying to browbeat Twitter. They have no legal authority to do that.”Patra did not respond to requests for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-police-visit-twitter-offices-in-city-gurugram-over-toolkit-case-101621882151033.html
25-05-2021||India||Put PM Modi’s photo on death certificates too: BJP ally Manjhi||Jitan Ram Manjhi, the chief of one of the National Democratic Alliance’s (NDA) partners in Bihar, Hindustani Awam Morcha-Secular (HAM-S), set off a political storm on Monday when he said that like vaccination certificates, death certificates of Covid-19 victims should also carry the photograph of Prime Minister Narendra Modi.“If you are so fond of putting photograph on the vaccine certificate, then the photo should be put on the death certificate too. Only this will be fair,” the former Bihar chief minister posted on Twitter. He shortly deleted his tweet, but not before it was noticed.His deleted tweet follows one on Sunday when he said that it would have been more appropriate to have a photograph of the President. In the same tweet he added that the PM’s of the respective chief minister’s picture could be used.This is the second controversy to break out over the use of the PM’s photograph in the certificates. Over the weekend, it emerged that Chattisgarh was issuing certificates to those vaccinated in the 18-45 years age group with CM Bhupesh Baghel’s photograph. His government defended the move on the grounds that vaccines in this segment are being funded by the state.Manjhi’s son Santosh Manjhi is a minister for minor irrigation and SC/ST Welfare department in the Nitish Kumar-led NDA government in the state. HAM-S won four out of the seven seats it contested in the Assembly elections last year.HAM-S spokesperson Danish Rizwan said: “Not 1% of the population of Dalit and Adivasis have been vaccinated yet because they are afraid and fear vaccination. Putting the picture of the President, who is also a Dalit, will inspire them.”Taking note of Manjhi’s deleted tweet, the state’s opposition Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) party suggested that HAM-S quit the NDA alliance. “What he raised today, the opposition has been demanding the same. If you are against the autocratic system, come out of it otherwise people will think that you are issuing statements to be in the news,” RJD spokesperson Mritunjay Tiwari said.Reacting to Manjhi’s tweet, Janata Dal (United) state president Umesh Kushwaha said everyone has the right to share their views in a democracy. “Manjhi ji is a mature leader and a part of the NDA. In a democracy, everybody has the right to put forward his views and at times, people come out with personal views as well, which is always welcome. This is the beauty of democracy.”BJP state chief Sanjay Jaiswal said: “I can say for sure that the certificate is an authentic letter for one and all anywhere in the world.”Political analyst D M Diwakar said it appears as though all is not well for Manjhi in the alliance. “He is probably testing the waters elsewhere.”Like Chattisgarh, Jharkand is also issuing certificates with photographs of chief minister Hemant Soren to beneficiaries in the 18-45 age group.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/put-pm-modi-s-photo-on-death-certificates-too-bjp-ally-manjhi-101621882327622.html
25-05-2021||India||Provide ration, meals to migrants, SC tells states||New Delhi: The Supreme Court on Monday told states that stranded migrants across the country must be given free dry ration and cooked food through community kitchens, in directions that sought to reduce the problems faced by unorganised sector workers rendered jobless during Covid lockdowns.The directives were, in effect, an extension to all states of the instructions given by the top court to the National Capital Region states of Delhi Uttar Pradesh and Haryana for migrants stranded in and around NCR. States will be free to either utilise the foodgrain received under the Atmanirbhar Bharat scheme, or provide them under any state-specific scheme. “We direct that migrant workers wherever stranded throughout the country should be provided the dry ration under the Atmanirbhar Scheme or any other scheme found suitable by the States/Centre,” the bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan and MR Shah said. On providing cooked food, the bench directed the states and Union territories to open sufficient community kitchens for migrant workers. “There shall be wide publicity with respect to the various schemes including the places of community kitchens so that such needy persons may in fact take benefits,” the bench said. The orders came in a suo moto proceeding initiated by the top court in the light of problems faced by migrants across the country,The Court also identified the slow registration of workers in the unorganised sector as a major implementation flaw in schemes for their benefit. It pointed out that the Union labour ministry was working for well over a year on a National Database for Unorganised Workers (NDUW), which would include migrant and construction workers. “We are of the view that for accessing of any benefit percolating from any scheme framed by the Centre or the states for the benefit of unorganised workers or migrant workers, registration of workers is essential, which registration shall facilitate the unorganized workers to assess the scheme and reap the benefit,” the bench observed.The work on the database started after the Supreme Court in 2018 directed the labour ministry to set up a portal for registration of unorganised workers, and make it available to states. The Code of Social Security Act, 2020, by which the Unorganised Workers Social Security Act, 2008, stood repealed, also envisaged the registration of unorganised workers, gig workers, and platform workers.The court asked solicitor general Tushar Mehta to file an affidavit within two weeks, informing them about the progress of NDUW and the Social Security Code. The judges also urged states to collaborate with the Centre on completing the NDUW at the earliest.Most states told the court that workers were not coming forward to register, and some contractors refused to cooperate with government queries. “These are illiterate and downtrodden people. How will they cope up with online registration? Our main concern is that benefits should reach the needy persons. If they (migrant workers) are not coming, the Government must reach them and identify them,” the bench responded.The bench also underlined the need for a suitable mechanism to monitor and supervise whether the benefits of the welfare schemes reach people.  “On paper, the Government says it has spent crores of rupees, but they must also reach the needy,” the bench said.In May last, the top court took up a suo moto petition following media reports showing the mass exodus of migrant labourers from cities on foot and cycles, travelling for long distances without food, water or transport. The Court directed all states and UTs to arrange transport for stranded migrants by rail and road. Further, Court directed food and water to be supplied to them. In addition, the states which received migrants were to maintain data of workers who returned, their skill, and details of previous employment at the block, district and village level.Some civil rights activists, represented by advocate Prashant Bhushan, informed the court that the NCR states were yet to provide dry ration under the Atmanirbhar scheme, as directed by the court on May 13, and that very few community kitchens were functioning.Citing an example of Delhi, where construction workers were provided a cash incentive of ₹5000, the applicants demanded similar benefits to be extended to migrant workers, rickshaw pullers, and street vendors. But the bench refused, saying, “Cash transfer is a matter of policy and scheme framed by each State/Union Territory and no direction for cash transfer can be issued by this Court to any category of person unless they are covered by any scheme formulated by the State/Union territory.”The Court noted that several states were providing cash benefits ranging from ₹1,000 to ₹6,000, and sought details of such schemes from all states and UTs by the next date expected to be on June 11.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/provide-ration-meals-to-migrants-sc-tells-states-101621882027715.html
25-05-2021||India||Shah reviews prep, Mamata questions fund allocation||The ongoing tussle between West Bengal and the Centre continued on Monday after chief minister Mamata Banerjee accused the NDA government of allocating less funds to the state following a video conference with home minister Amit Shah to review preparedness for Cyclone Yaas. In the meeting with the chief ministers of Andhra Pradesh, Odisha and Bengal and the Lieutenant Governor of Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Shah directed the states to make adequate power back-up arrangements in all Covid-19 hospitals, labs, vaccine cold chains and other medical facilities, said a statement issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs. Banerjee said at least 20 districts in West Bengal, including Kalimpong and Darjeeling in the north, could be affected even though three coastal districts – South 24 Parganas, North 24 Parganas and East Midnapore – along with Kolkata will be directly hit. “They (the Centre) have announced an advance fund of ₹600 crore each to Andhra Pradesh and Odisha and a little more than ₹400 for West Bengal. I have questioned why Bengal was being deprived despite being a larger state with dense population. I asked Shah why this discrimination. He said that he would talk later and that allocation was based on scientific views,” Banerjee said. The severe cyclone is expected to cross the Odisha-West Bengal coast, close to Balasore in Odisha, around Wednesday noon with wind speeds of 140-165 kmph gusting up to 185 kmph. On Monday, West Bengal and Odisha started evacuation of people living in coastal areas to cyclone shelters and government buildings. The evacuation is to be completed by Tuesday afternoon.“Evacuation has already started and we plan to evacuate at least 10 lakh people. Around 4,000 cyclone and relief shelters have been set up. At least 51 rescue teams have been deployed. A 24x7 control room has been set up at the state secretariat which would coordinate up to the block level,” the chief minister said, adding that the army has been alerted. The chief minister urged people to wear masks even at relief centres as Covid is taking a heavy toll in the state. On Sunday, the state recorded more than 18,000 new cases and 156 deaths.“This time we have set up safe homes and quarantine centres where suspected patients and those detected with Covid after RAT could be shifted,” said a senior official of North 24 Parganas, associated with the evacuation process.In May 2020 the state was hit by another very severe cyclone Amphan, killing 98 people and damaging property worth a few thousand of crores. “Very severe cyclone Yaas is expected to cross the Odisha-West Bengal coast between Paradip and Sagar close to Balasore in Odisha on Wednesday noon. It would move towards Jharkhand,” said Sanjib Bandopadhyay, deputy director of the IMD’s (India Meteorological Department’s) regional office in Kolkata. During the time of landfall, the cyclone is predicted to trigger wind speeds up to 155-165 kmph gusting up to 185 kmph in East Midnapore district, located along the West Bengal-Odisha border. In Kolkata, wind speeds may reach up to 70-80 kmph gusting up to 90 kmph.IMD director general Mrutyunjay Mohapatra said the sea tide would be as high as 4-5 metres above the mean sea level during the period in the four districts of Balasore, Bhadrak, Kendrapara and Jagatsinghpur and some coastal districts of West Bengal. “These four districts will experience heavy to very heavy rainfall on May 26 with rains up to 300mm,” he said.The Odisha government on Monday started a massive evacuation exercise in the coastal districts of Balasore, Bhadrak, Kendrapara and Jagatsinghpur with Covid-appropriate behaviour in place. Special relief commissioner Pradip Jena said district collectors would complete the evacuation by May 25 afternoon. “Zero casualty is the motto,” he said.Jena said 10 senior IAS and IPS officers have been sent to the four coastal districts and Mayurbhanj to supervise relief, rehabilitation and restoration measures in the wake of the cyclone. In Balasore, where the cyclone is expected to pass through, district administration advised people to keep drinking water ready for at least four days. Those who are living under thatched houses have been advised to move to nearby cyclone centres.The Centre has rushed 52 NDRF teams apart from 60 of the ODRAF and 200 fire tenders are being kept on high alert. Similarly, 165 teams from the public works department and 165 from the rural development department have been formed for cyclone management, officials said.Odisha, which faced Cyclone Fani in May 2018 with speeds of up to 200 kmph, killing 64 people and affecting about 16.5 million people in over 18,000 villages, has a robust system to deal with such calamities. In 2018, Cyclone Titli killed 77 people, destroyed 260,000 hectares of agricultural land, over 60,000 houses, and killed more than 35,000 domestic animals. Between 1891 and 2021, over 100 tropical cyclones have lashed Odisha — the highest number among the states on the eastern coast.Andhra Pradesh chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy told Shah that the impact of the cyclone is expected in north-coastal Andhra Pradesh and a few other coastal districts. “The process of evacuation of people in the vulnerable areas had commenced in Srikakulam district, bordering Odisha. The process will be followed in other districts as well,” the chief minister said. The CM asked officials of Srikakulam, Vizianagaram and Visakhapatnam to evacuate Covid-19 patients, if necessary, to safer hospitals. Effective measures should be taken to ensure that there are no power supply issues. Similarly, people from inland areas should be evacuated to safer places wherever necessary. All essentials, starting with supplies in relief camps, should be put in place, he said. Because of the cyclone moderate to extreme rain is expected in the coastal districts of West Bengal, Odisha and Andhra Pradesh and parts of Jharkhand, Sikkim and Bihar. In Jharkhand, a red alert has been issued with a prediction of extreme rainfall and high-velocity winds at speeds of up to 130 kmph on May 26-27.Deputy director at the IMD’s Randhi centre Abhishek Anand said, “Extreme rainfall is expected in some places such as East Singhbhum, West Singhbhum, Saraikela-Kharswan and Simdega district, on May 26.” He added the central part of Jharkhand, which comprises Ranchi, Bokaro, Gumla, Hazaribag, Khunti and Ramgarh, is likely to experience heavy to very heavy rainfall on Wednesday. “Hospitals have been asked to keep power back-up and oxygen storage at least for two days,” said a senior health official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shah-reviews-prep-mamata-questions-fund-allocation-101621881967678.html
25-05-2021||India||Why defence min chaired the GoM on Class 12 exams||New Delhi Defence minister Rajnath Singh was handpicked by Prime Minister Narendra Modi last week to head the group of ministers (GoM) looking into the feasibility of conducting Class 12 examinations because of his stature as the government’s senior-most minister and cross-party acceptance, HT has learnt after speaking to two senior government officials. The GoM also comprises information and broadcasting minister Prakash Javadekar and women and child development minister Smriti Irani, both former education ministers. Singh chaired a meeting on Sunday attended by education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’, Irani, Prakash Javadekar. Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) officials, education ministers of all states, education secretaries, and chairpersons of the state examination boards.“It is an issue in which the Prime Minister himself is involved,’’ said Nishank. “It involves so many students in the country and so the PM asked Rajnathji also to sit, shows just how important this matter is for us,” he added. A decision on the issue is expected by June 1.One of the officials quoted above said PM Modi chose Singh after consultations because he wanted not only his senior-most minister but also someone who had experience in this area.Singh first became education minister in 1991 when the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) formed its first government in Uttar Pradesh. Singh held the portfolio for two years and in 1992, brought in the anti-copying act that made cheating a non-bailable offence and allowed police to come into examination halls to conduct raids.“The biggest concern for the government was that it should be attended by all states,’’ said a second official. ``Rajnath Singh has great acceptance across party lines and that’s another reason why he was chosen. In seniority, he is the topmost minister.’’Both the officials quoted above said choosing Singh had paid off as all Opposition party ministers attended the event and the meeting reached a broad consensus of holding the board exams, albeit truncated. Even Delhi education minister Manish Sisodia, who had objections, listed them cordially.Nishank’s office said fielding Singh didn’t undermine the education minister, who is yet to fully recover from Covid. “On this issue of exams, the PM previously held a meeting so there is no question of us chairing when Rajnathji is there,’’ said an official from Nishank’s office.The official pointed out that Singh and Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren, who holds the state education portfolio, both praised Nishank’s initiative to conduct this process even though he was ill.At Sunday’s meeting, Singh’s intervention was limited to telling all attendees to speak briefly so that they wouldn’t go over time. In his concluding remarks, he told all states to give their opinion in writing, which is expected to be collated in a day or two, before the government arrives at its final decision.Singh was also the behind-the-scenes negotiator for the government during the farmer protests earlier this year. While commerce minister Piyush Goyal and agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar were officially speaking to the farmers, Singh was meeting with key farmer leaders at his residence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/why-defence-min-chaired-the-gom-on-class-12-exams-101621881848693.html
25-05-2021||NA||Covid-19 highlights: Gujarat logs 3,187 new cases, tally close to 800,000-mark||The Covid-19 second wave in India continued to recede as several states and Union territories including Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh Delhi maintained a downward trajectory. These were the worst-hit regions of the country and contributed the most in the overall nationwide tally at the peak of the second wave.The threat of Black Fungus or mucormycosis remained as experts warned that the life-threatening fungal infection can happen even without Covid and so those who have high blood sugar level should be on alert.Click here for complete Covid-19 coverageMeanwhile, in the United States, the spread of Covid-19 continues to slow, with the country ending its first week since June with no days of infections exceeding 30,000, according to data compiled by Johns Hopkins University and Bloomberg.British health officials expressed optimism Sunday that the coronavirus restrictions remaining in England can be lifted in June after an official study found that the Pfizer and AstraZeneca vaccines offer effective protection against the variant first identified in India. More than 2,880 cases of B.1.617 Covid-19 variant have been recorded in England, AP reported.The government has said the variant appears to be more transmissible, but there was still uncertainty about how concerning this was.Follow all the updates here:Over 19.84 crores Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country so far: Health ministryCumulative number of COVID19 vaccine doses administered in the country exceeded 19.84 crores (19,84,43,550) as per the 8 pm provisional report today: Union Health Ministry574 cases of black fungus recorded in Pune, 26 deathsPune district administration told news agency ANI that 574 cases of black fungus recorded in the district and 26 individuals have died due to the infection.Maharashtra records 22,122 new cases of Covid-19, 361 deathsMaharashtra recorded 22,122 new cases of Covid-19 on Monday, taking the state-wide tally to 56,02,019. 361 deaths were also reported, the death toll now stands at 89,212.Gujarat reports 3,187 new Covid-19 cases, 45 deaths in last 24 hoursGujarat reports 3,187 fresh COVID-19 cases, 9,305 discharges, and 45 deaths in the last 24 hours Total cases: 7,91,657Total discharges: 7,13,065Active cases: 68,971Death toll: 9,621With 3,187 new Covid-19 cases and 45 deaths in the last 24 hours, Gujarat's cases tally reached 791,657 and the death toll climbed to 9,621, reports ANI.Centre should procure Covid-19 vaccines via global tender: Kerala CMKerala CM Pinarayi Vijayan writes to PM Narendra Modi, saying that the Central government should float a global tender to procure COVID-19 vaccines and provide them to all states free of cost pic.twitter.com/DIGFbcMiZwKerala's chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan wrote a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi saying that the central government should float a global tender to procure Covid-19 vaccines. He also said that vaccines should be provided free of cost to states, reports ANI.No shortage of oxygen beds in Karnataka, says CM YediyurappaThere is no shortage of oxygen. We are also arranging ICU beds as much as required. We have 3000 beds in 28 covid Care Centres in Bengaluru, including 1000 oxygen beds: Karnataka CM BS Yediyurappa, in Bengaluru#COVID19 pic.twitter.com/Pqn5VQbDTUKarnataka's chief minister BS Yediyurappa said that there is no shortage of oxygen in the state and ICU beds are also being arranged as much as required, reports ANI.Goa reports 1,401 new Covid-19 cases, tally moves close to 150,000-markGoa reports 1401 fresh COVID cases, 2362 recoveries, and 38 deaths in the last 24 hours Active cases: 16278Total recoveries: 129162Today death cases: 2421 pic.twitter.com/a5DZwllKSsGoa reported 1,401 new Covid-19 cases and 38 new cases in the last 24 hours, reports ANI.Kerala reports less than 20,000 new Covid-19 cases, 196 deaths in last 24 hoursKerala reported 17,821 fresh COVID cases, 36,039 recoveries, and 196 deaths in the past 24 hours. The number of active cases and death toll stand at 2,59,179 and 7554, respectively: Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan(file photo) pic.twitter.com/pL2n9KM3m6Kerala's chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that 17,821 new Covid-19 cases and 196 deaths have been reported in the state in the last 24 hours. He also said that the active caseload stands at 259,179 and the death toll climbed to 7,554, reports ANI.Andhra Pradesh reports 12,994 new Covid-19 cases, 96 deaths in last 24 hoursAndhra Pradesh reports 12,994 new COVID cases, 18,373 patient recoveries, and 96 deaths in past 24 hoursActive cases: 2,03,762 Total recoveries: 13,79,837Death toll: 10,222 pic.twitter.com/RDZPxOdv9yAndhra Pradesh reported 12,994 new Covid-19 cases and 96 deaths in the last 24 hours, taking the state's cases tally to 1,593,821 and death toll to 10,222, reports ANI.'Will supply Covid-19 vaccine only to central governments': PfizerPfizer will supply #COVID19 vaccine only to central Govts & supra-national orgs for deployment in national immunization programs. Allocation of doses & implementation plan within a country is a decision for local governments based on relevant health authority guidance: Pfizer pic.twitter.com/hlMK0RBe8eCovid-19 vaccine manufacturer Pfizer said that the company would provide vaccines only to central governments and supra national organisations for deployment in national immunisation programs, reports ANI.'Second wave in control, started prep for 3rd wave': CM KejriwalSecond wave in control, started prep for 3rd wave. Imported 6000 oxy cylinders. Can set up 3000 oxy beds with these. Grateful to HCL, Give India and Central govt (esp Indian embassy in Beijing) for helping us get these cylinders to Delhi.Many more preps underway pic.twitter.com/RZGHObqKneDelhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said that 6,000 oxygen cylinders have been imported as a part of the preparation for Covid-19 third wave.Delhi reports 1,550 new Covid-19 cases, 207 deaths in last 24 hoursDelhi reports 1550 new #COVID19 cases, 4375 recoveries and 207 deaths in the last 24 hours.Total cases 14,18,418Total recoveries 13,70,431Death toll 23,409Active cases 24,578 pic.twitter.com/Csq2pCrU6zDelhi logged 1,550 new Covid-19 cases and 207 deaths in the last 24 hours, taking the city's cases tally to 1,418,418 and death toll to 23,409.Over 10 million people inoculated in 18 to 44 age group: Govt#IndiaFightsCorona:📍India's Cumulative Vaccination Coverage(As on 24th May, 2021, 07 AM)➡️More than 19.60 crore doses administered➡️More than 1 crore beneficiaries of age group 18-44 years vaccinated in phase-3 of #LargestVaccinationDrive #Unite2FightCorona #We4Vaccine pic.twitter.com/S6fC6HtGryMore than 10 million people between 18 and 44 years of age have been jabbed against Covid-19 under the third phase of the vaccinations, the government said.Jharkhand CM says 'severe shortage' of Covid-19 vaccinesJharkhand facing severe shortages of COVID vaccines, only three days' vaccine left for 18-44 group: CM Hemant SorenJharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren said that there is a "severe shortage" of Covid-19 vaccines in the state. He also said that stocks remain for only three days to inoculate beneficiaries in the 18 to 44 age group, reports PTI.RDIF, Panacea Biotec announce launch of Sputnik V Covid-19 vaccine production in IndiaThe Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) and Panacea Biotec, one of the leading vaccine makers in India, announced the launch of production of the Russian Sputnik V Covid-19 vaccine.Jharkhand CM Hemant Soren meets with state ministers over Covid-19 situationJharkhand: Chief Minister Hemant Soren chairs a meeting with state ministers over the COVID situation in the state, through video conference. pic.twitter.com/PKEhK5bB9YJharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren held a meeting with state ministers over the Covid-19 situation, reports ANI.Covid-19 lockdown in Bihar extended by a week till June 1: CM Nitish Kumar(2/2) लाॅकडाउन का अच्छा प्रभाव पड़ा है और कोरोना संक्रमण में कमी दिख रही है। अतः बिहार में 25 मई के आगे एक सप्ताह के लिए अर्थात 1 जून, 2021 तक लाॅकडाउन जारी रखने का निर्णय लिया गया है।Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar said that the Covid-19 lockdown in the state has been extended by a week till June 1. He also highlighted that the lockdown has had an effect and the number of cases is decreasing in the state.All vaccination sites for 18 to 44 age group , Covaxin centres for people above 45 closed in Delhi,All 400 vaccination sites for 18-44 age group closed in Delhi; Covaxin centres for 45-plus people shut too: Deputy CM Manish SisodiaDelhi's deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said that all Covid-19 vaccination centres for people between 18 and 44 years of age in the city, along with Covaxin centres for people over 45 years have been closed, reports PTI.Case fatality rate (CFR) higher than national average at 18 states/UTs, Punjab reports the highest#IndiaFightsCorona:18 states/UTs have a Case Fatality Rate more than the national average.Details: https://t.co/eRhjPonLxr#Unite2FightCorona #StayHomeStaySafe pic.twitter.com/I8R4xiD1UXPunjab, with a case fatality rate (CFR) of 2.4 per cent, tops the list of 18 states or Union territories where the CFR is higher than the national average of 1.14 per cent.Active caseload continues to fall, currently at 10.17% of total positive cases#IndiaFightsCorona:India’s total Active Caseload has decreased to 27,20,716 today.A net decline of 84,683 is witnessed in the last 24 hours. It now comprises 10.17% of the country's total Positive Cases.8 States cumulatively account for 71.62% of India’s total Active Cases. pic.twitter.com/e1wSGY32MzActive cases of Covid-19 fell by 84,683 cases in the last 24 hours and currently stands at 2,720,716, which is 10.17 per cent of total positive cases in the country. Also eight states add over 71 per cent to the active caseload.10 states contribute 81% to India's new Covid-19 cases#IndiaFightsCorona:2,22,315 Daily New Cases were registered in the last 24 hours.Ten States reported 81.08% of the new cases in last 24 hours. Tamil Nadu has reported the highest daily new cases at 35,483, followed by Maharashtra with 26,672 new cases.#Unite2FightCorona pic.twitter.com/fCyW7mm9rfTen states contributed 81.08 per cent to the 222,315 new Covid-19 cases India reported in the last 24 hours. TN with 35,483 new cases added the most.10 states account for 66.30% total Covid-19 vaccinations in India#IndiaFightsCorona:Ten states account for 66.30% of the total doses given so far in the country.#We4Vaccine #LargestVaccineDrive #Unite2FightCorona pic.twitter.com/FLbbOi5QJHIndia's Covid-19 vaccination drive has administered 196,051,962 doses of the vaccine so far. Ten states account for 66.30 per cent of the total vaccination.5,424 cases of Mucormycosis reported in 18 states and UTs"Till now, 5,424 cases of Mucormycosis reported in 18 States/UTs. Out of 5,424 cases, 4,556 patients have history of Covid-19 infection. 55% of the patients had diabetes," says Dr Harsh Vardhan.India records 4,454 in a single dayIndia's Covid-19 tally rises by 222,315, pushing the caseload to reach 26,752,447. As many as 4,454 people succumbed to the viral disease and the total death toll now stands at 303,720.Australia's Victoria state investigates two likely Covid-19 positive casesAustralia's second most populous state Victoria on Monday said it was investigating two suspected positive Covid-19 cases in Melbourne, which if confirmed would be the first community transmissions in the state in nearly three months, Reuters reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-coronavirus-india-world-death-toll-may-24-2021-101621823554424.html
25-05-2021||Today's||In Nepal’s political theatre, Delhi risks eroding strategic gains by backing Oli||A fresh political crisis is brewing in Nepal. President Bidhya Bhandari has dissolved the Parliament and called for fresh elections on the recommendation of Prime Minister K.P. Oli, but not without the drama that is part and parcel of Nepali politics.Both Oli and the opposition, under Nepali Congress leader Sher Bahadur Deuba, had claimed to possess sufficient numbers to form a government, but the President regarded both claims as insufficient. This was despite the fact that Deuba’s claim — with the support of 149 parliamentarians, which makes for a comfortable majority — seemed more credible. It was also despite the fact that Oli had lost the trust vote in Parliament earlier; the PM himself had asked the President to explore alternative government formation methods; the Madhav Kumar Nepal–Jhalanath Khanal factions of his own party, the Communist Party of Nepal (Unified Marxist Leninist), were unwilling to back him; and elections had been on his mind since December, when he dissolved the Parliament only for it to be reinstated via a Supreme Court order.The President’s complicity in overlooking constitutional processes is now under scrutiny, and will be examined by the Supreme Court. But what is certain is that everything, in terms of the outcome so far, is going Oli’s way in Nepal — and to have his way, he is willing to deploy all means, whether constitutional or unconstitutional.Also Read | In Kathmandu, a threat to democracyAs the political drama intensifies in Kathmandu, the spotlight is once again on Delhi’s role in the current crisis.The drivers of Delhi’s policyOver the past year, India has shrugged off the ghosts of Oli’s anti-Indian nationalism, intensified its engagement with the Nepal government led by him, and played realpolitik that favours its interests. This was primarily based on the diplomatic assessment that India’s interests lay in deepening the State-to-State relationship, and for better or worse, Oli led the Nepali State.But by now appearing to advise Madhesi leaders Mahant Thakur and Rajendra Mahato to remain neutral, Delhi has more than hinted that it is backing Oli in the current power struggle. It is also instructive that Delhi has not yet issued a statement on the entire episode, including the contested decision to go in for elections – striking only because India has in the past regularly commented on internal Nepali political affairs. The perception in Kathmandu’s political circles is that from engaging with the PM, Delhi is now investing in sustaining him in power.This, in turn, appears to be based on Delhi’s assessment that Oli has emerged as a leader who drives the narrative in Nepal. If it antagonises him, Oli may once again pick up the anti-Indian nationalism drive that brought him to power in the 2018 elections. None of the opposition leaders – Deuba or Pushpa Kamal Dahal ‘Prachanda’ or Madhav Nepal or Baburam Bhattarai (all former PMs with whom Delhi has done business) – seem to inspire any confidence in South Block anymore.By betting on Oli, Delhi seems to believe it will weaken the Nepali Communists and diminish China’s influence in the country. Its position also stems from an unease with the current Parliament, where communists collectively constitute over two-thirds of the House — the end of this Parliament and fresh elections seem to be a mutually shared objective. There are also unconfirmed reports that elements within India’s polity are happy to undermine the current constitution, a document at the heart of the 2015 “unofficial” blockade.Decoding Oli’s motivations Oli’s anti-Indian vitriolic during the 2015 blockade surprised many Indian diplomats who had until then, in the words of one former official, regarded him as ‘the Nepali politician [who] had worked most consistently towards strengthening ties with India”.It was under Oli that Nepal grew closer to China. Ties became comfortable enough that a fraternal relationship was established between the Chinese Communist Party and the then-unified Nepal Communist Party (NCP), which even imported “Xi Jinping Thought” to train its cadre. As India-Nepal relations took a nosedive in May 2020 over the Kalapani dispute, Oli upped the ante by publishing a new political map that showed the contested territory as part of Nepal.But fissures within the NCP saw Oli break ranks with both Prachanda and Beijing, allowing India to regain its foothold in Nepali politics. The whispers in Kathmandu grew louder: after the meetings with high-ranking Indian dignitaries, Oli was said to have “managed” Delhi. Just as Delhi was driven by a set of factors, Oli appears to have assessed that keeping Delhi in good humour would provide him a domestic political insurance, help neutralise the hostility of Madhesi parties, and remove impediments as he expanded control over Nepal’s institutions.Now, with a call for elections amid a devastating second wave of the pandemic, it’s either Oli’s way or the highway in Nepal. Even as the rest of the Opposition gears up for a political and legal battle against him, Oli has promised the Thakur-Mahato faction a power-sharing deal, brought in an amendment to citizenship laws via an ordinance, and assured amnesty to Tharu and Madhesi cadres charged with violence during the 2015 anti-constitution protests.What India learnt from 2015A shift in India’s Nepal policy had been visible in the years after 2015. After the blockade drastically reduced its influence on the Nepali establishment and created a wave of anti-Indian backlash, Delhi visibly withdrew from Kathmandu’s political affairs and began focusing on its aid and infrastructure projects intended to expand connectivity and people-to-people relations.One such project was the 69km-long Amlekhganj-Motihari oil pipeline, inaugurated in September 2019, significant also because one of the most visible symbols of the 2015 blockade was the fuel shortage in Nepal, while the resultant deal between Nepal and China eroded India’s monopoly over fuel supply. A second pipeline, a 50-km-long pipeline between Siliguri to Charali in Jhapa, Oli’s constituency, is in the works.Similarly, despite the overwhelming attention paid to the proposed Tibet-Nepal railway, the almost 200-km-long broad-gauge line between Kathmandu and Raxaul is moving ahead at a much quicker pace, with India shouldering the costs of the detailed project report (DPR). Again, the contrast with Beijing is visible. The DPR for the Gyirong-Kathmandu railway was expected to cost over ₹20 billion, and Nepal had expected China to pay for it. India has also provided ₹500 crore as grant to upgrade the Hulaki Rajmarg in the plains of Nepal.Delhi has also assisted towards earthquake reconstruction while pushing forward soft diplomacy tools such as the Sampark Alumni Network for Nepalis who’ve studied in India.India’s “vaccine diplomacy” allowed Nepal to be one of the first countries in the world to vaccinate its people. India has also sent across oxygen during this current wave.India’s decision to export vaccines has been severely criticised within the country, but by doing so, India sent a message of goodwill to citizens in the South Asian neighbourhood in a time of great need. The current wave of the pandemic also showed how intricately India and Nepal are connected despite the state of political affairs. Delhi must prioritise Nepal’s needs Delhi’s as soon as vaccine exports can be resumed.Back to the political quagmireOne remarkable fact is that India’s development and connectivity projects had been ongoing despite a slowdown in relations brought about by the blockade and the 2020 Kalapani dispute respectively.By supporting Oli, however, Delhi once again finds itself being drawn into the quagmire that is Nepali politics. If Delhi believes China’s influence in day-to-day affairs has been reduced with its moves, it must know China may be willing to decouple its economic and other engagements in Nepal from its political influence, as seen in the recent awarding of construction contracts to Chinese firms, including by the Nepal Army, an institution traditionally perceived to be close to India. A China-Nepal Friendship Industrial Park in Oli’s constituency is in the works, too. Although the supply of vaccines from China has hit a roadblock, China will not let go of the gains it has already made in Nepal.By backing Oli in the current mess, Delhi is once again the wild card in Nepali politics. Oli is deeply unpopular; his mishandling of the pandemic has brought about a fresh wave of criticism against him. Had the two Madhesi leaders not decided to remain neutral, Oli may well have been out of power. If Delhi believes Oli will be more amenable to Madhesi demands and interests from hereon, it must remember that the 2015 constitution is Oli’s baby. Oli has also shown he is willing to disregard federalism and the devolution of power as had been envisioned in the new republic.Now, Delhi risks returning to the turbulent days of the post-conflict period. Between 2009-2011, it put its weight behind an anti-Maoist alliance to not allow Prachanda to become prime minister. The move antagonised Nepalis across the board with its interventionist approach, emphasising the anti-Indianism that is a hallmark of Nepali politics. By now putting its weight behind a pro-Oli arrangement and antagonising almost the entire spectrum of Nepal’s polity and civil society, Delhi risks repeating its historical mistake.Amish Raj Mulmi is the author of All Roads Lead North: Nepal’s Turn to China and a Kathmandu-based political commentator and editorThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/in-nepal-s-political-theatre-delhi-risks-eroding-its-strategic-gains-by-backing-oli-101621938430791.html
25-05-2021||Today's||For rural India, it is the golden hour||As it plays out, rural India will possibly be the final theatre in this round of the world’s war against the coronavirus. How we deal with it in rural India has huge implications for India’s health indicators, workforce, economic growth, Anganwadi-deprived children’s future – and the country’s politics.For a virus that has caused devastation across much of the world, conquering rural India could be easy pickings. What can defeat it is the vaccine – whenever it is available in adequate numbers – and something else we aren’t currently working on – tackling massive vaccine hesitancy, village after village, state after state.We might have lost a lot of time on a lot of things, but this is the golden hour for rural India.When the Covid vaccine reaches the villages in large numbers, would hundreds of millions of people be waiting to take the jab, even if free, and protect themselves? Not at all.I live in a village, and the kind of reports we are receiving – whether through the insights of our community resource persons in every state and across districts, or through direct messages from rural citizens to me – are a frightening clamour. Village after village is reporting large-scale prevalence of Covid symptoms, and an exceptionally higher number of deaths compared to past years. Vaccines, testing, reporting – all are in short supply.But, despite the health scare, most people say they will not get the vaccine – and the reasons range from “we don’t need it” to “it will kill us” to “so and so fell ill or died after taking it” to “it is a conspiracy” to many other farcical reasons.Also Read | In seven years, how Modi has changed IndiaAnd this is when adults have to get themselves vaccinated. Wait till it’s the turn of the children. It is clear that India is headed for an extremely tough challenge.Here is what we need urgently to fix the vaccine hesitancy – an unprecedented rural communication campaign. Talking to rural India impactfully and with innovation through all the means available. Convincing them about the vaccine.We need everything from street munaadi (announcements) to radio storytelling, folk songs to nautanki and local art forms, two-minute video films that can be shared on social media and WhatsApp featuring rural influencers, and lots else. Also, all the knowledge and diktat does not have to come top-down. Local community leaders, and rural influencers, can guide authorities on how to best get the communication across on getting tested and vaccinated.In my experience, Indian media planners and information department officials in governments often get the definition of an “inflluencer” wrong in a rural context. They spend thousands of crore of rupees targeting the wrong audiences.So who is the person to whom communication should be targeted at in this emergency, who can become aware and further make many more people aware? The most effective rural influencers aren’t village headpersons because Pradhans and Sarpanches are often seen as corrupt or hustlers. The best rural influencers are, according to me, the students from Class 9 to Class 12 and after, who know how to use Youtube or Facebook or Whatsapp and are very aware. It is this band of tens of millions of youth that could help target vaccine hesitancy and they are the ones who the communication has to be addressed to.Can good rural communication by governments save lives? Of course it can. India has done it earlier and can do it again.Also Read | Road to 2022: In UP, the pandemic has changed public discourse, political agendaThe first example is India’s huge effort to eradicate polio. In 2009, India had 60% of the world’s polio cases. India has not had a single case of polio since 2011, was declared polio-free in 2014 and strict surveillance since has prevented its return. India did it with the world’s biggest vaccination campaign against the wild polio virus (WPV), done against the backdrop of an almost non-existent public health system that is hardly any better today.There was then very strong opposition to the vaccine, especially among many sections of the Muslim community. A multi-level communication strategy and a massive social mobilisation campaign were at the heart of that success – achieved despite severe odds. Imagine how many polio-affected children India would have had if health workers and officials had not worked relentlessly at the time on the vaccination programme. It saved millions of childhoods.The second example is from my home state of Uttar Pradesh, where, until a few years ago, more than 600 children died every year due to Japanese Encephalitis and later Acute Encephalitis Syndrome (AES). “Operation Dastak”, a door-to-door campaign over the past three years to ensure immunisation of all under-15 children and a mass village-level communication campaign, has shown extraordinary success. Encephalitis cases are down by 85%, government officials say.India has to draw on successes like these as it stares at a new vaccination crisis. Despite its vast challenges, our frontline health workers and a political resolve have in the past helped overcome these obstacles.We are back in that moment. We are in the golden hour, and the clock is ticking.Neelesh Misra is an audio storyteller and the founder of Gaon ConnectionThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/for-rural-india-it-is-the-golden-hour-101621935430477.html
25-05-2021||Today's||In the Israel-Hamas conflict, the victory of cynicism||The adage “In war, truth is the first casualty” is apt for the 11-day Israel-Hamas conflict that ended last Friday. The doublespeak of its protagonists – from fighting terrorism to resisting the occupation, from right to security to the right to freedom – cynically conceals their ulterior motives which either triggered the conflict or prolonged it.​In retrospect, the breakout of the conflict on May 10 seems presaged by its prevailing context. The strongest impetus for the hostilities were the two elections — for the Israeli Knesset held on March 23 and Palestinian parliamentary and presidential elections after 15 years, but postponed on April 30 by President Mahmoud Abbas citing Israeli obstacles. Further, it was the end of the holy month of Ramadan – during which young Palestinians frequently confront Jewish hardliners and Israeli police over access to the holy al-Aqsa mosque complex. It was the verdict day (also postponed) for the controversial court case to evict several Palestinian families from Sheikh Jarrah in East Jerusalem by the Jewish settlers. It was also on the eve of May 11, when Israelis celebrate Jerusalem Day and preceded the May 15 anniversary of Israel’s founding in 1948 – marked by Palestinians as Naqba (“catastrophe”) day.Also Read | UN urges ‘political process’ amid Gaza reconstruction​Against this emotively charged backdrop, let us weigh in the various players – both groups and individuals.For Israel’s Prime Minister Benyamin Netanyahu, the fourth Israeli polls in two years were a disappointment as he failed, again, to put together a majority coalition. It was also an existential issue for him as losing the job would also take away his legal immunity – opening him to a possible jail sentence in a long-pending anti-corruption trial that finally began last month. Thus, donning the mantle of defender of Israel and its citizens by going on the offensive against the rocket-firing Gazans did no disservice to his political and personal objectives. Israel’s military, too, wanted a free hand to “degrade” the asymmetric capabilities of Gaza-based Hamas and Palestinian Islamic Jihad (PIJ). Moreover, the regional geopolitical context was conducive to Israel as the few remaining backers of Hamas and PIJ, were either preoccupied or enfeebled or both.The situation on the Palestine side was even more complex.The Palestine Authority (PA) has been in suspended animation: although it was able to scupper the Donald Trump Administration’s “deal of the century” last year, there was nothing to replace it. Apart from this political limbo, PA had to contend with two other setbacks — intensified Israeli settlement activity in West Bank and four Arab countries normalising ties with Israel, jeopardising the “Palestinian Cause” for a two-state solution to the Arab-Israeli conflict.Meanwhile, a call for PA elections after 15 years has revived the dormant contest between, the mainstream and moderate al-Fatah, ruling West Bank, and the radical Hamas, ruling Gaza Strip. The two ruling factions are mostly mutually exclusive, both territorially and in their political orientation. Al-Fatah has gradually lost its cohesion and popularity since the death of its iconic founder and PA President Yasir Arafat in 2004. It is currently riven by dissidence against the leadership of 85-year old President Mahmoud Abbas. Thus, the coming elections offered Hamas an opportunity to launch an electoral campaign of sort for the West Bank by launching a salvo of its Qassam rockets from Gaza to Jerusalem on May 10. Although the gambit provoked a conflagration with Israel, it figured that the potential political gains outweighed the costs.Among the players outside the immediate theatre of conflict, Egypt and the United States (US) are the most important. The military regime of Egypt – the only country with a land border with Gaza – has no love lost for Hamas which was closely allied to Muslim Brotherhood it ousted. While it did not mind Hamas being pummelled, it also had to be seen as not letting the Gazans down. So, Egypt rendered some humanitarian assistance and mediated a ceasefire between Hamas and Israel.The US labels Hamas as a terrorist organisation. While the Joe Biden administration had initially kept its distance from PM Netanyahu, it leveraged the hostilities to ingratiate itself to Israel and the pro-Israel domestic lobby in the US, by supplying weapons and ammunition and maintaining frequent and closer contacts “to de-escalate the conflict.” It also stone-walled any anti-Israel moves at the UN Security Council giving the Jewish state’s military the time to “sanitise” Gaza. Similarly, it leveraged the crisis to re-engage links with some influential Arab leaders whom it had hitherto kept at arms distance.The humanitarian tragedy in Gaza has embarrassed some moderate Arab regimes, particularly those which had recently signed the Abraham Accords. Though tactically put on the defensive, their respective overtures towards Israel were based on the pursuance of their respective national interests and are unlikely to be reversed. Israel’s normalisation with other Arab and Muslim countries might, however, be put on hold for better optics.To rationalise the ceasefire, a new wheel of cynical calculus has to be spun. On its part, Hamas is certain to claim having won the war by merely surviving it. Having defanged Hamas and PIJ, their martyrdom status is not in Israel’s interest: it would only lead to the preponderance of the hardliners in Ramallah within al-Fatah, or with a Hamas takeover. Cynically speaking, the current Palestinian dispensation, sans Hamas’s offensive capability, serves Israeli – and most other stakeholders’s — strategic interests. And so just as cynical calculations led to the conflict, a cynical synergy in objectives has led to its end, for now.Mahesh Sachdev is a retired Indian ambassador with expertise in West Asia and President of Eco-Diplomacy and Strategies, a Delhi-based consultancyThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/in-the-israel-hamas-conflict-the-victory-of-cynicism-101621928830548.html
25-05-2021||Today's||A tale of two infections||The life-threatening infection, mucormycosis, informally referred to as the black fungus, is currently raging as a part of the aggressive second wave of Covid-19. Epidemiological data suggests an estimated global prevalence of 140 cases per million population, of which over 40% is contributed by India. The fungal order responsible for causing it is Mucorales, the third most common pathogenic fungal infection following Candidiasis and Aspergillosis. The mucorales like others (yeasts, moulds, mushrooms) are ubiquitously distributed fungi that exist in decaying organic matter, damp places, soil, plants, water, air and animals.At greatest risk are people with uncontrolled diabetes mellitus, blood cancer, and those with organ transplantation or receiving regular immunosuppressive drugs and/or steroids. Hyperglycemia (high sugars), especially in the presence of elevated available serum iron and diabetic ketoacidosis (DKA), is the most common factor. The inability of a compromised host immune system to suppress Mucorales germination precipitates infection, which, upon widespread dissemination, is virtually impossible to resolve.Also Read | When the pandemic hits the highest peakThe hallmark of mucormycosis is the invasion of blood vessels by Mucorales spores that germinate and invade host cells causing tissue necrosis (death), which becomes visible only at very late stages of infection. More often than not, diagnosis is delayed. The high mortality rates (45-60%) associated with mucormycosis are reflective not only of the aggressive nature of the infection, but also of the dysregulated innate immune response seen in Covid-19 as well as the cytokine storm observed in the more severe disease with eventual immune exhaustion.A recent publication by Soliman and others from the University of California Los Angeles in Nature Microbiology (March 2021) has demonstrated that high mortality of the condition is attributed to the release of a preformed toxin (new venom), named Mucoricin, which could also be the promising therapeutic target.The widespread reports of mucormycosis point to multiple factors, of which high prevalence of diabetes mellitus — over 80 million known cases in India and several that remain unreported or undetected — is of utmost importance. Of the over 8,500 reported cases of mucormycosis in India, over 90% are in people who are either known diabetics or have new onset (Covid or steroid related) diabetes mellitus.The injudicious use of steroids with improper dosage, duration, timing as well as self-medication contributes directly or indirectly to this. Generalised lymphopenia induced by Coronavirus, characterised by the specific depletion of killer T-cells, provides further impetus to the deadly fungus.In addition to hyperglycemia, DKA is known to predispose subjects with diabetes to mucormycosisowing to the high cellular iron and low serum pH (acidosis). Iron is an essential micronutrient for most organisms and fungi are no exception. A report published in the April 2021 issue of Journal of Fungi suggests that iron metabolism holds the key for the development of mucormycosis, and that serum iron and glucose together enhance the expression of glucose-regulated protein 78 (GRP78), the novel host receptor that mediates invasion and damage of human endothelial cells by Rhizopus oryzae.Published literature, supported by the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA), recommend six vitamins (D, A, C, Folate, B6, B12) and four minerals (zinc, iron, copper and selenium) as essential constituents for resistance to viral infections because of their ability to enhance immune function and reduce inflammation.But addition of zinc may worsen the course of mucormycosis. This is supported by the fact that Zinc chelators (compounds that bind it in blood) like Clioquinol with posaconazole are the most active combination in ameliorating mucor in animals. This may be relevant in the Indian setting as during the pandemic, there has been an unprecedented, over the counter use of drugs of unproven benefit such as vitamin C, D and zinc. The latter may be doing more harm than good and may explain the high incidence of mucormycosis.The key to prevention of mucormycosis is prompt control of hyperglycemia, maintenance of hygiene, and judicious use of steroids; the key to treating it is early diagnosis for ameliorating morbidity and mortality. It is critical to have high index of suspicion even on observing subtle symptoms. For suspected cases, prompt imaging (contrast enhanced MRI of paranasal sinuses/ brain or plain CT chest), with or without fungal scrapping/culture from the accessible tissues, is of utmost importance. Successful treatment of mucormycosis requires multidisciplinary approach involving multiple specialists.General experience of treating patients with various brain tumours, endocrine disorders such as the Cushing’s syndrome as well as a multitude of other medical indications where steroids are generally prescribed in high doses shows opportunistic fungal infections especially mucormycosis do occur, but in modest proportions. Why then is there a sudden spurt in cases in Covid-19 where comparatively moderate steroid doses of short duration are used? Could there be a specific affliction between Sars-CoV-2 derived viral proteins and the steroid compounds? Are there specific host determined factors that might predispose a certain group of individuals? Clearly, further research is needed to understand the pharmacokinetics of drug-protein interaction, besides devising easier diagnostic and prophylactic strategies.Even though mucormycosis is a serious opportunistic infection among patients with Covid-19 treated with steroids and those having uncontrolled hyperglycemia, it is important to remove undue fear and anxiety by creating guarded awareness among health care workers and the public.Mohd Ashraf Ganie is the Professor of Endocrinology and Metabolism at Sher-I-Kashmir Institute of Medical Sciences, SrinagarNK Mehra is Indian Council of Medical Research Emeritus Scientist (Hon) and former Dean of the AIIMS, New Delhi The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/a-tale-of-two-infections-101621926612862.html
25-05-2021||Today's||For PM Modi, the seven-year itch||In August 2020, when a Mood of the Nation poll showed Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s popularity still rock solid, a senior Congress leader rang me up in anger: “Why are you running these farzi (false) polls? So much distress after the lockdown and you godi (pliant) media people are still trapped in Modi mania.” A few months later, when the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) won the Bihar elections, albeit with a reduced margin, the leader called back, this time in a more sheepish voice: “Guess the lockdown didn’t make that much of a difference to voter behaviour.”In the last seven years, Narendra Modi has been a colossal figure in Indian politics. He is almost like the Pied Piper to whose tune millions would happily clap and bang utensils, light diyas, or even willingly lighten their pocket of ₹500 and ₹1,000 notes.And yet, the cruel Covid summer of 2021 is perhaps a watershed moment for Modi’s leadership. As he completes seven years in office on May 26, there are visible signs that the halo is losing its glow. Call it the seven-year itch, or more appropriately the one-year virus, but the PM is not quite the indomitable presence of even nine months ago.While a year ago, his serial televised addresses to the nation were similar to an all-powerful general leading the citizenry into a self-proclaimed Mahabharat-like war against Covid 19, his less assured public presence now betrays unease and uncertainty in the face of unimaginable grief. A year ago, the PM could demand obedience to his “stay at home” instruction; today, even his tears don’t seem to move those who have witnessed a brazen disregard for Covid protocols while seeking votes on the campaign trail.Also Read | SC to hear plea seeking SIT probe into alleged post-poll violence in West BengalThe seven-year itch is an interesting prime ministerial syndrome to explore. Modi will be the fourth Indian PM to complete seven years in office. The first, Jawaharlal Nehru, was a much adored leader whose political graph took a significant dip in 1959, just a little over seven years after he won the first general elections. The dismissal of an elected Kerala government and the onset of a bloody boundary dispute with China tarred the Nehruvian age. By 1973-74, seven years into her prime ministership, Indira Gandhi was confronted with rising prices, a faltering economy and growing political unrest, culminating in the dark hour of the Emergency. Manmohan Singh too was fatally besieged by the anti-corruption Anna movement in 2011, seven years after becoming the “accidental” PM.Modi too now faces his moment of truth. His initial appeal was drawn from his claim to be an anti-establishment folk hero, a man from humble origins who combined religio-nationalist zeal with the image of an anti-corruption crusader and a development icon. For seven years, this image has been artfully managed, a teflon-like coating ensuring that no blame ever stuck to it. The Covid-19 surge is the first time that the glossy protective veil around the PM’s persona is being lifted and a governance deficit lies exposed: the optics of a tika utsav for example cannot compensate for a floundering vaccine policy.The government propaganda machine can blame the Covid crisis on the all-pervasive, unaccountable “system”; the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) can attempt to spread a positive spirit; the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)’s social media cell can focus on toolkit controversies. In normal times, these moves might even gain traction. But in extraordinary times, the blackened pyres and rising flames in crematoriums make public relations exercises look terribly jarring, insensitive distractions. And the misuse of agencies in West Bengal appears even more like a sore loser’s attempt to destabilise political rivals at a time when unity and consensus building is the need of the hour.The PM still enjoys a considerable reservoir of goodwill. To believe that the Modi era is coming to an abrupt end would be foolhardy and akin to making the same mistake that the Congress leader made last August when questioning poll numbers. After all, the durability of Modi’s appeal is also dependent to a great extent on the disjointed state of the opposition.Also Read | HC questions Centre for denying visa to OCI card holder as mother visited PakBut like in the Covid fight, complacency is a dangerous attitude in public life. The next year is decisive because in every state that goes to the polls within a year from now, the Covid shadow will loom large. Nowhere are the stakes higher than in Uttar Pradesh, the pivot to Modi and the BJP’s dominance of Indian politics in recent times. In 2014, Modi carved a national stature for himself when he decided to contest from Varanasi and famously claimed that he had been called by “Ma Ganga”. Today, as the dead wash up on the Ganga’s banks, the stench of unclaimed bodies is a reminder of a putrefying political system where the citizens were promised so much more than what was actually delivered. The headline-grabbing dream merchant of 2014 must now transform himself into a nuts and bolts crisis manager to ensure that his government too, like those led by other PMs in their seventh year, is not pushed into ventilator mode.Post-script: In 2019, just ahead of the general elections, I met an astrologer on the campaign trail. “Modi will be PM for sure, the BJP will get more than 300 seats and the NDA will score more than 350,” he predicted. But there was a sting to his tale: “But Modi will have rough time mid way through his term, I can’t say how and why.” As an avowed rationalist, I walked away with a dismissive grin. Now, the words are proving uncannily prophetic.Rajdeep Sardesai is a senior journalist and authorThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/for-pm-modi-the-seven-year-itch-101621924270073.html
25-05-2021||Editorials||HT Editorial: On Twitter, a self-goal||On Monday night, two teams of the special cell of Delhi Police “visited” the offices of Twitter India in Delhi and Gurugram. The objective was to ostensibly give a notice to the company, and seek an explanation for why it tagged a tweet by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) spokesperson, Sambit Patra, as “manipulated media”. The tweet in question concerns a “toolkit”, outlining how the government can be cornered for its management of the pandemic. The BJP has claimed that this is a Congress party document, which shows how the Opposition is cynically leveraging a human tragedy. The Congress has rejected the allegation, acknowledged that parts of it were genuine while alleging the more controversial parts were fake, and filed a police complaint for forgery. AltNews, a fact-checking site, based on a study of the metadata, has corroborated the Congress’s version, and there has been no evidence forthcoming on the entire document’s authenticity. Twitter then tagged the tweet as “manipulated” (which means the media in question was altered).There is the larger question on whether Twitter’s action of taking such calls affects its status as an intermediary. It does, after all, look like an editorial call that a media company may make.Also Read | Congress to Twitter: Tag as ‘manipulated media’ tweets of Union ministersStung by Twitter’s decision, the government, which wrote to the company, seems to have decided it was time to have the police pay the company offices a “visit”, initially presented as a “raid”. Twitter’s offices have been closed for a year, and there are multiple channels of communication that already exist between the government and Twitter. As a result, Delhi Police’s action has reinforced the impression of democratic backsliding in India, where contesting the narrative of the ruling party can invite retribution. It has done little to establish the authenticity of the “toolkit”. It has blurred the line between the party’s objectives and the State’s conduct. It has distorted the debate on regulation of big tech, which requires a careful balance between freedom and accountability. It has put the ministry of external affairs in a spot, for the job of defending India’s actions against a big tech firm headquartered in the US will end up falling on external affairs minister, S Jaishankar, currently on a visit to that country.There is a simple lesson in all of this for authorities concerned — stay focused on the goal of beating the pandemic, fight political wars without involving State agencies, use existing channels to communicate with tech firms without resorting to intimidation, and remember each action will be carefully weighed on the scale of democratic conduct.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/on-twitter-a-selfgoal-101621943950696.html
25-05-2021||Editorials||HT Editorial: Not Ayurveda vs allopathy||Baba Ramdev (born Ram Kisan Yadav) is, based on the camps and TV shows that made him a national figure, an excellent proponent of yoga, the ancient Indian exercise that is as good for the body as it is for the mind. He is, based on the success of his company Patanjali, a smart businessman whose understanding of his own brand equity and the failsafe concept of value-for-money, is unique. He is also a political figure — he was a key cog in the movement that resulted in the birth of the Aam Aadmi Party. And because of his following and his ideology, there is a certain natural alignment between him and the Bharatiya Janata Party.Also Read | ‘If allopathy works...’: Now Ramdev has 25 questions for IMAPerhaps confident of this association with the regime in power — nothing else can explain the timorous letter the Union health minister wrote to the baba, reproaching him for his recent comments — Mr Yadav has chosen to take on allopathy, even vaccines. But it would be a mistake to see this as a debate between Ayurveda and allopathy. No stranger to miracle cures — he has, at various times, promised cures for cancer and AIDS and even suggested that homosexuality is a disease that can be cured — the baba has his own interests to push. After all, he did try and pass of one of his company’s products, Coronil, as a cure for Covid before being forced to not label it as such.Both Ayurveda and allopathy have their place, and both need to meet the bar of evidence-based science (something Coronil doesn’t, for instance). It is worrying to think that the yoga guru’s followers may follow his advice and recklessly shun allopathy or vaccines (or both) in the midst of a pandemic — but it is for the State to act on such reckless and dangerous advice. If it wants to.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/not-ayurveda-vs-allopathy-101621927390316.html
