26-05-2021||News||The economic aftermath of the pandemic’s second wave||Just as India’s economy was recovering from the first wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, the second wave hit, and its intensity, in terms of both fatalities and lockdowns, quickly put an end to India’s swift normalisation of growth after the first wave. Now, even as the second wave appears to have peaked, it leaves many unanswered questions on both the economic damage sustained and the path forward. High-frequency indicators have collapsed. Mobility indicators and railway passenger revenues have plummeted, pulling along with them, other real economy indicators such as power demand, Goods and Services Tax transactions and auto sales. The unemployment rate has risen again, and our weekly tracker of the pace of economic activity normalisation, the Nomura India Business Resumption Index (NIBRI), is 40% below its pre-pandemic levels, after having almost fully recovered in February.This would sound an economic alarm, but the reality is a lot more nuanced. The second wave lockdowns have been far less draconian than those imposed during the first wave, both geographically and in terms of the sectors affected. During the first wave, the lockdowns were focused on both goods and services, with manufacturing also limited to the production of essentials. Intra-state and inter-city transport was restricted. This time, the lockdowns are primary focused on services. Some states have allowed industry and construction to continue operating, with some curbs, and minimal restrictions were placed on transportation services. Also Read: Scientifically Speaking | Decoding the evolution of coronavirusesImportantly, although domestic consumption will take a knock as mobility is restricted, unlike the collapse in global growth during the first wave, global growth is on a synchronised recovery path this time, led by developed economies, so exports should provide an offset, unlike the collapse in global growth during the first wave. Finally, consumers and businesses have adapted to the new normal.Consequently, the damage to growth from the second wave, while substantial, should be much less severe than during the first wave as well as significantly less than what the drop in mobility suggests. Our analysis of countries that have gone through second and third waves in Europe and Asia confirms this view. For our sample, we find that, compared to the 12.3% quarter-on-quarter (seasonally adjusted) average drop during the first wave, Gross Domestic Product (GDP) rose by 0.5%, on average, during the second wave. We believe that similar dynamics will play out in India.The duration of the lockdowns also matter. Amid limited fiscal space and falling caseloads, we believe states will likely move from rolling lockdowns to a calibrated re-opening, as balancing lives and livelihoods becomes the priority. The reality facing states is that the virus variant is highly infectious and caseloads have fallen in response to lockdowns, while the pace of vaccination has been lacklustre in May and will likely take a few more months to accelerate. Against this backdrop, we expect the broad strategy across most states to remain one of a calibrated reopening, where restrictions are maintained across high-risk contact-intensive services sectors, while other sectors are allowed to operate with restricted timings, alongside the continuation of night curfews.This suggests that the largest impact on economic data will be in May, and we expect a sequential improvement in June. Overall for April-June 2021, we believe GDP growth momentum will shrink by close to 4% q-o-q on a seasonally adjusted basis, much less than the 24.6% drag during the first wave.A durable growth recovery is conditioned on more widespread vaccinations; otherwise, the economy will continue to be held hostage to future pandemic outbreaks. The pace of inoculation has slowed considerably in May, but our bottom-up analysis of India’s vaccine supply suggests the pace will rise sharply from July, as current vaccine makers ramp up production capacity, new vaccines are approved, and imported vaccines augment domestic supply. We estimate that the total domestic vaccine supply by end-2021 could cumulatively amount to 1.625 billion doses, fully inoculating around 52% of the population by end-2021, assuming two doses. This suggests that the “vaccine pivot” — the point at which vaccines start to become more widely available and show demonstrative success in suppressing the virus, allowing governments to lift most social distancing restrictions and citizens to become less fearful — may be closer than it seems now. This should enable a swifter rollback of lockdowns and help resume the normalisation process that was suspended in February.The progress on vaccinations will have two other important positive effects. First, vaccinations and a reduced fear factor can go a long way in lifting consumer confidence, which is currently at record lows, supporting the domestic consumption recovery. Second, the uncertainty caused by the pandemic has diluted the usual transmission from easy financial conditions to stronger demand from interest rate-sensitive sectors. However, as pandemic uncertainty ebbs and vaccinations rise, the full impact of easy financial conditions should become more visible, which should boost demand for real estate and other consumer discretionary purchases.Overall, the second wave has unleashed a devastating humanitarian crisis, but its economic impact should be less than feared, and muted overall. As caseloads fall and vaccinations rise, there is a light at the end of the dark tunnel. Monetary and fiscal policies can play a supportive role in the interim, but ultimately it is India’s health policy that can unleash the biggest growth stimulus.Sonal Varma is chief economist for India and Asia (ex-Japan) at Nomura Aurodeep Nandi is India economist at Nomura The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/the-economic-aftermath-of-the-pandemic-s-second-wave-101622023153674.html
26-05-2021||News||Dewas catches the rain where it falls||Under a harsh sun, Santosh Bhawar, 48, holds up a bunch of jackfruit and smiles in satisfaction at his orchard in a central Indian village. He has also been able to reap three crops from his irrigated land this year, instead of two, and raised his income, he says.Farmers like Bhawar has prospered because their village, Devnaliya, in Madhya Pradesh’s Dewas district, has found a new insurance against drought — rainwater collection pits.Not long ago, water trains were needed to bring in river water. The district now boasts of over 4,000 rainwater collection holes, the highest in the country.Bhawar’s village — part of a central Indian tribal belt that runs through seven states — was for long defenceless against parched, dry weather.The Union government wants to replicate the Dewas model in every district through the Jal Shakti Abhiyan, the Jal Shakti ministry’s programme to conserve rainwater and recharge aquifers in the country, part of the Narendra Modi government’s target to reach tapped drinking water to every household by 2024.Also Read | Jal Jeevan mission goes digital in five statesThe Dewas modelDevnaliya, once barren and unproductive, is now dotted with 45 small orchards owned by its residents. There is good reason why conserving rainwater was the only reliable way to ensure people had enough water to meet their needs.The village lies on a bed of impermeable basalt rock of the Deccan plateau, surrounded by the Vindhya range. Groundwater is virtually inaccessible because of the rocky topography, which also prevents rain from penetrating into the soil.During monsoons, most of the rain would just run off, just like in the rest of India. The country’s 120-day June-September monsoon season typically sees intense rain showers for about 40 to 50 days. However, the country conserves only about 8% of the monsoon rains, according to data from the Jal Shakti ministry. This is what the Jal Jeevan Mission wants to change and Dewas is a model.The district had found a mention in one of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s radio addresses. On March 22, the PM launched the second phase of Jal Shakti Abhiyan, the Jal Shakti ministry’s flagship water-conservation campaign. It’s called “catch the rain, where it falls, when it falls” and is being rolled out across the country’s 734 districts covering over 600,000 villages. It involves the simple task of digging pits, restoring traditional water bodies and geotagging them.“We have enough water to irrigate our fields and for our personal and household needs because the rainwater saved is enough to last the entire year,” says Bhawar.In Devnaliya, the mission has picked steam. Every farmer has a rain-collection hole. Antar Singh, 75, points to his monsoon pond. It was constructed using a ratio of 7 to 10 feet deep and 1 hectare wide. Farmers were funded to build these pits from the National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme.“This has resulted in increases in yield productivity and every family has enough water to irrigate their fields. There is no other way to go about it,” says Raja Ram Mory, an official of the Dewas-based Samaj Pragati Sahayog, an NGO that works to conserve water.Why it matters Without such efforts, India could soon face “day zero” conditions when taps run dry. According to data from the state-run policy think tank NITI Aayog, nearly 600 million Indians face “high to extreme water stress” and the country’s water demand is likely to double by 2030, potentially costing a 6% loss in the gross domestic product (GDP) by 2050.India has already begun experiencing wide rainfall variations. Digging farm ponds to trap monsoon rain that otherwise runs off quickly from parched land can be a sustainable solution and increase land productivity by as much as 300%, according to World Resources Institute.Also Read | Inside India’s new plan to deliver waterThe Jal Jeevan Mission has several components, such as reaching piped water to every household and setting up community-managed water conservation projects. For the financial year 2020-21, ₹11,000 crore was allotted for the mission.Dewas has had a head start in conserving water. A decade ago, the Madhya Pradesh government had constructed an earthen embankment locally known as the Mahegaon dam in a catchment area near Devnaliya.The earthen dam stored rainwater on vast stretch of 50 hectares of catchment area. However, the water was of little use as there was no mechanism to bring it to people’s houses and fields.The Madhya Pradesh government, under the Jal Jeevan Mission announced in 2019, embarked on an elaborate plan to bring water to the end-user. The mission has a provision to partner with reputed NGOs in accomplishing its water goals.The Mahegoan catchment area resembles a large freshwater lake, but all of it is stored rainwater. “We worked on a community basis to devise a plan to bring the water from the Mahegoan dam to 10 villages,” says Mory.The state’s electricity department was roped in to provide two electricity transformers on the bank of the dam’s lake. Funds were also collected from the community to install three pumps of 15 horsepower each to draw water through underground pipes.Rainwater harvesting thus fulfils 100% of this central tribal belt’s water needs. Residents pay ₹100 per bigha of land (about 3 acres) as recurring costs to maintain the system to the state electricity department, says Sundar Singh, a local agriculture department official.NGOs in Dewas, such as Samaj Pragati Sahayog, now train farmers from other states, such as Maharashtra, to conserve water to give an impetus to the Jal Jeevan Mission. “I always say water is our guest. If we stop water from flowing away, we can ensure our guest stays with us a little longer,” says Narendra Singh, a trainer.(This is the third of a four part series on India’s water crisis and the ambitious Jal Jeevan Mission)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/dewas-catches-the-rain-where-it-falls-101622016673040.html
26-05-2021||News||Cyclone Tauktae is a warning; the future of India’s western coast is at stake||India is bracing for a second cyclone in a month as it prepares for Cyclone Yaas in the Bay of Bengal, which is likely to cross the Odisha-Bengal coast on May 26. To be sure, cyclones in the Bay of Bengal are almost an annual affair.But Cyclone Tauktae in the Arabian Sea, which affected almost all states on the western coast of India earlier this month, was a more uncommon phenomenon. Not only are cyclones relatively uncommon in the Arabian Sea, Tauktae also intensified (measured by the surface wind speed of the storm) rapidly into one of the most severe cyclones in the Arabian Sea in over two decades. This is something the India Meteorological Department (IMD) had not forecast. With the climate crisis, the Arabian Sea could see more such intense cyclonic disturbances going forward, according to experts.An HT analysis shows that this will inflict a far bigger cost on lives and livelihoods than cyclonic activity on India’s eastern coast.2011-20 saw the highest number of cyclones in Arabian Sea since 1890s IMD has records of cyclones among the two major seas of the North Indian Ocean – Indian Ocean area north of the equator – going back to 1890s. A decade-wise analysis of the data shows that Bay of Bengal has had more cyclones than the Arabian Sea in every decade since 1891-1900.Also Watch | Cyclone Yaas to intensify into ‘very severe cyclonic storm’; prep ramped upHowever, the data also shows Arabian Sea has been becoming more and more turbulent. It had 17 cyclonic events between 2011 and 2020, the highest in a decade since the 1890s. Eleven out of these were severe cyclones. Climate scientists, including those at IMD, also suggest that the Arabian Sea might see more increase in intensity of cyclones, if not the number, than the Bay of Bengal in the future.“The sea surface temperatures over Arabian Sea have gone up, so has the ocean heat content. This may not affect the total number of cyclones developing over Arabian Sea. But when cyclones form over Arabian Sea, they are likely to experience severe intensification. This is because the warming over Arabian Sea is higher than Bay of Bengal. We should be prepared,” said M Rajeevan, secretary, Ministry of Earth Sciences. Clearly, stronger cyclones pose a bigger threat to life and property in the future.Warmer Oceans increase cyclones; make them more unpredictable Predicting cyclone trajectories is crucial to minimising their damage. “Climate projections indicate that Arabian Sea will continue warming under increased carbon emissions, resulting in more intense cyclones in the future. Ocean warming has made some new challenges also. Cyclones are now intensifying rapidly since warm ocean waters act as fuel for them,” said Roxy Matthew Koll, a climate scientist at the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology.Higher sea surface temperature acts as a catalyst for intensification of low-pressure areas to cyclones. If the ocean and atmospheric conditions like high sea surface temperature and atmospheric instability continue to be favourable, the cyclone will continue to intensify further.“Extremely severe cyclones such as Fani (2019) and Amphan (2020) (in the Bay of Bengal) intensified from weak to severe status in less than 24 hours due to warm ocean conditions. That gives us less time to be prepared. State-of-the-art cyclone models are unable to pick this rapid intensification because they do not incorporate the ocean dynamics accurately,” Koll added.The following map shows how Tauktae intensified from a Very Severe Cyclonic Storm to an Extremely Severe Cyclonic Storm within a few hours from 11.30pm on May 16 to 5.30am on May 17. Its sudden intensification took IMD by surprise as it was not expecting Tauktae to turn in to an Extremely Severe Cyclonic Storm. “Tauktae intensified very rapidly. We did not state that it would intensify to an extremely severe cyclone in our forecast. But it did because of extremely favourable oceanic and atmospheric conditions,” said M Mohapatra, director general, IMD on May 17.Western coast has more to lose from cyclones in material terms The states on India’s western coast — from Gujarat to Kerala — contributed 35% to the country’s GDP in 2018-19, the latest year for which data from all states is available in the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE) database. The states on the eastern coast — from West Bengal to Tamil Nadu — contributed 21%.Natural disasters do not affect all sectors of the economy in the same way. An oil refinery stands to lose much more than a law firm or outsourcing-based IT firm if a city is hit by a cyclone. The western coast appears more vulnerable once this is accounted for too. States on the western coast contributed 46% of India’s manufacturing GVA in 2018-19. This number was just 22% for states on the eastern coast.To be sure, one could argue that cyclonic disruptions need not affect the entire state on India’s coastline. HT has analysed district-wise data from the Annual Survey of Industry (ASI) to factor in this point. ASI is the most important source of registered organised manufacturing statistics in India. Because ASI stopped publishing district-wise statistics after 2009-10, the numbers are a bit dated. But the spatial distribution of manufacturing is unlikely to have changed radically since then.The analysis shows that the problem might be worse than it appears. India’s manufacturing activity is highly skewed in nature. Of the 593 census districts at that time, 82% of India’s total manufacturing output was concentrated in just 100 districts. Among these 100 districts, 15 were on the western coastline while 12 were on the eastern coastline, and 73 were not on the coast. Output value of western coastline districts was disproportionately more than their number. Western coastline districts among these 100 accounted for 27.4% of India’s total manufacturing output, while eastern coastline districts and non-coastal districts among the 100 accounted for 10% and 44.4%.To be sure, as the accompanying map shows, there are also districts that are not exactly on the coast but close to it and have a high share in manufacturing output. Pune, for instance, had a share of 3.29% — the fourth highest among the 593 census districts — and is close to the coast, although not exactly on it.Western coast has more densely populated districts which also entails a greater risk to human livesIt’s not just money at stake if cyclones become more intense on the west coast. Western coast has more densely populated pockets than the eastern coast.This also increases the risk of loss of human lives. There are 33 census districts each on the western (from Kutch to Thiruvananthapuram) and eastern coast (from Kanyakumari to North 24 Parganas) of India.While the overall population density of the western coast (474 persons per square kilometre) is less than the eastern coast (565), the mean and median density of the districts on the western coast is higher. This means that the western coast has more pockets of high population density than the eastern coast. This will make evacuation and relief work more challenging as cyclones intensify in the future.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/cyclone-tauktae-is-a-warning-the-future-of-india-s-western-coast-is-at-stake-101621946052135.html
26-05-2021||Lucknow||Lucknow-based doctor shot at by SUV-borne assailants, critical||A city-based doctor was shot at by SUV-borne assailants near his house in Matiyari locality under Chinhat police station limits on Tuesday midnight, police officials said on Wednesday morning. The victim, Dr Sandeep Jaiswal, a resident of Balajipuram colony in Matiyari runs a private hospital Harshit hospital and trauma centre at Sarvodaya Nagar. “He suffered bullet injury in his jaw and the bullet is stuck somewhere between his jawline and back of the head. He has been admitted to trauma centre of KGMU in a critical condition. Doctors have kept him under observation for 24 hours before operating him to remove the bullet,” said Lucknow deputy commissioner of police (DCP), east, Sanjiv Suman.The DCP said the incident took place when Dr Jaiswal was returning home in his SUV. The assailants in another SUV intercepted his vehicle nearly 200 metres before his house and first attacked with a brick to break the wind shield of the doctor’s SUV and then opened fire on him. “The police have found CCTV footages of the incident in which the assailants are seen fleeing from the spot in a white SUV towards Barabanki,” he said adding that a bullet shell has also been recovered from the scene.Suman further said the locals, who claimed to have heard sound of two shots, rushed Dr Jaiswal to Ram Manohar Lohia hospital from where he was later shifted to trauma centre.The DCP said the assailants were following the doctor’s vehicle from Sarvodaya Nagar when he left for home from his hospital. He said the police were trying to recreate the crime sequence and efforts were on to nab the assailants.The officer added that the assailants’ modus operandi suggested that the crime was committed in a fit of rage. The hired shooters would not take risk to ride on SUV while executing the crime and would have opted for bike for this purpose, he said.Suman said the initial probe hints towards some disputes related to his hospital and personal life but the doctor’s family has so far not levelled allegations against anyone.Another senior official privy to the probe said “We are investigating on both the lines and trying to ascertain the exact reason behind the attack. It would be easy to trace the assailants after the exact motive is clear.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lucknowbased-doctor-shot-at-by-suv-borne-assailants-critical-101622053634118.html
26-05-2021||Noida||Illegal international telephone exchange busted in Noida, three nabbed||Noida: Three people were arrested on Wednesday for allegedly running an unauthorised international telephone exchange in Sector 62. Police said that the illegal operation was causing revenue losses to the department of telecommunications and posing a threat to national security.The suspects were identified as Owais Alam, a resident of Moradabad and Pushpendra Kumar and Pawan Kumar, residents of Ghaziabad. According to police, Alam had purchased an office space for ₹50 lakh in a business park in Sector 62 in December last year. In addition, he also purchased licences for 12 PRI (primary rate interface) lines, which is used for internet voice calls, from a private company, police said.“An abnormality was discovered by the company when it was found that instead of receiving or making the calls, the lines were being used to transfer them. A complaint was made with us. Then a probe in the matter was initiated, following which a raid was conducted today and the three suspects were apprehended,” said Kumar Ranvijay Singh, additional deputy commissioner of police, zone 1.Police officials said that the suspects were routing the calls through the lines to their own server. Police also recovered a car, several laptops, desktops, technical gadgets, and several SIM cards, among others, from the suspects.“The revenue which would have gone to the telecom companies was instead going to the suspects creating losses for the telecom department. And the caller identities were not showing in the call detail records, which was a threat to national security. We have alerted the agencies concerned as well about the matter,” said Singh.Most of these calls were being generated from the Middle East, said police.Police officials said that the operation mastermind is a Mumbai-based man who had designed the proxy server. He had prior experience in web development projects. He has an M.Sc in IT and a work experience with calling software at a US-based MNC, the officials said, adding that the man is yet to be arrested. According to police, in 2017, Alam started an exchange from Sector 63 before moving to Sector 62. He was also running another such exchange from his house in Moradabad where a raid was conducted as well, said police, adding that at least three more named suspects are wanted in the case. Police are also working to trace the foreign IP address to see if an illegal exchange had also been set up on the other end. They have identified five bank accounts of the suspects to trace money. Alam owned property worth ₹1 crore in Noida which is also being looked at, said police. The suspects were booked at Sector 58 police station under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Indian Telegraph Act, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/illegal-international-telephone-exchange-busted-in-noida-three-nabbed-101622053394112.html
26-05-2021||Noida||Woman arrested for stealing mobile phones of patients at Covid hospital in Noida||: Police have arrested a 35-year-old woman for stealing mobile phones of patients at a Covid-dedicated hospital in Sector 39. The woman, identified as Meena Devi, is a resident of Gurugram and was employed on contractual basis at the facility.As per police officials, six stolen mobile phones were recovered from the suspect.“The woman was arrested on Wednesday morning from Sector 51. She used to work as help staff at the hospital and would steal the mobile phones of critically ill Covid patients as well as those who passed away at the hospital,” said Azad Singh Tomar, station house officer, Sector 39 police station.He added that since the Covid patients were in isolation and did not have any family members nearby, their belongings were left unguarded which made it easier for the suspect to steal the phones. The woman has been booked under relevant sections of IPC.“The thefts were carried out between April and May this year. Two people had submitted complaints of mobile theft at the hospital,” said Tomar. htc||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/woman-arrested-for-stealing-mobile-phones-of-patients-at-covid-hospital-in-noida-101622052974037.html
26-05-2021||Other||Most Covid deaths in Agra in 61+ age group||Agra An analysis done by the district administration has traced that most of those who caught Covid-19 infection in the past one year were in the age group of 21 to 40 years (44%), while the highest number of deaths took place in the age group of 61 years and above (43%) in Agra district. The analysis made it clear that only 8 % (2071) of those below 20 years tested positive for Covid-19. The next age group of 21 to 40 was most vulnerable in catching the infection and 44 % (11079) tested positive for corona in over a year. Next came the age group of 41 to 60 where 32 % (8274) tested positive, followed by the age group of 61 and above in which the percentage of infection was 16 % (3995), informed district magistrate of Agra Prabhu N Singh. While analysing Covid -19 deaths, it was learnt that the most vulnerable was the age group of 61 years and above, facing 43 % (166) of deaths. In the age group of 41 to 60, the vulnerability was 39 % (150) followed by the age group of 21 to 40 in which 16 %, i.e. 61 deaths took place. There were only 10 deaths in the age group of up to 20 years, making it 2 % of total deaths in Agra district, informed Singh. On Wednesday, 23 new cases were tested positive, taking the total tally of positive cases to 25442, out of whom 24449 were discharged while 395 died, informed Singh. “Agra now has 598 active cases and recovery rate has increased to 96.10 %. The sample positivity rate stands at 2.87 % and fatality rate at 1.55%. The number of samples tested in the district is 887358,” said the DM. In the past 24 hours, 8632 samples were tested and 23 were found to be positive while 112 patients were discharged. Caption ::: Graphic for number of cases and deaths due to Covid -19 in Agra district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/most-covid-deaths-in-agra-in-61-age-group-101622052434134.html
26-05-2021||Other||BSE CEO Ashish Chauhan is new AU Chancellor||PRAYAGRAJ: Ashish Chauhan, managing director (MD) and chief executive officer (CEO) of BSE (formerly Bombay Stock Exchange, India), has been appointed as the new Chancellor of Allahabad University (AU). President and Visitor of AU Ramnath Kovind appointed Chauhan to the post for a period of five years on Wednesday, informed varsity officials. Chauhan has acted as the CEO of IPL cricket team Mumbai Indians in its formative years and worked as the president and chief information officer (CIO) of Reliance group from 2000 to 2009 in the field of IT, e-commerce, public relations, media, telecom,sports, organised retail, IPO, petrochemicals, refining, oil and gas etc.He started his career as a banker with IDBI. Chauhan is one of the founders of NSE (National stock exchange) and is considered the father of modern financial derivatives in India due to his work there from 1993-2000. He is also the creator of Nifty index and was in charge of creating the first screen-based trading. Prior to Chauhan, renowned educationist Prof Govardhan Mehta was the Chancellor but he had resigned even before his term was over, four years back. Later, on June 29, 2019, the ministry of education asked for names of eminent scientists or other persons of the country for the post of Chancellor. The varsity administration sent some names to the ministry but they were turned down and fresh names were sought from AU by the ministry. On February 24 this year, the AU administration discussed the issue at the meeting of the Academic Council (AC). It was decided that all the members of the council would suggest two names and e-mail the same to the vice-chancellor directly. Nearly all the members suggested the names and after screening it, five names were agreed upon by the AU administration and forwarded to the ministry. Following this, the President appointed BSE CEO Ashish Chauhan as the Chancellor of AU for five years. Chauhan thanked the President, PM and education minister for appointing him as the Chancellor of AU. In a tweet, Chauhan wrote, “Thank you for my appointment as the Chancellor of University of Allahabad, a nationally important education institution, one of the four oldest universities in India set up in 1887.Truly honoured and humbled by your gesture.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bse-ceo-ashish-chauhan-is-new-au-chancellor-101622052254064.html
26-05-2021||Other||BSP schemes could have helped during Covid crisis: Maya||Lucknow: Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati said on Wednesday that the BSP government had launched 18 development and welfare schemes under Dr Ambedkar village integrated development programme. The BSP government had planned to equip the villages with basic facilities. After grabbing power, the rival political parties dumped the village development schemes. Had the successive governments continued the BSP government schemes, the rural population would not have faced problem, poverty and deaths during the Covid pandemic, she said. Wishing the people good health and life on the occasion of ‘Buddha Purnima’, the BSP chief said Gautam Buddha gave the message of universal peace, non-violence and brotherhood. Buddha devoted his life to the service of humanity. Today when the people were facing crisis due to the Covid pandemic, the message and teachings of Buddha could provide them solace and courage, she said. Mayawati said the four BSP governments launched several development projects and welfare schemes to highlight contribution of Gautam Buddha, including Gautam Buddha University, Gautam Buddha highways, airstrip in Kapilvastu, guest houses and Gautam Buddha parks. The development schemes promoted tourism and generated employment for a large number of people, she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bsp-schemes-could-have-helped-during-covid-crisis-maya-101622052074055.html
26-05-2021||Other||Expert committee approving only 2 vials per day for black fungus patient in Haryana||Mucormycosis (black fungus) patients’ kin alleged that the expert committee formed by Haryana director general health services is approving only two vials of anti-fungal medicine, liposomal amphotericin-B, per day to each patient against the demand of 4-7 injections.As per data accessed, the expert committed had allotted two vials each to nearly 220 patients on Tuesday while nearly 18 patients could not get the vials because the prescribing doctor’s sign and UHID were missing and some patients were asked to submit after re-investigation.Anurag, of Dadri, said his brother-in-law has been admitted at a private hospital since May 23 but they got only two vials on Wednesday.“The doctors are asking us to arrange at least four vials per day or his situation can worsen. Patients’ details have been uploaded on the portal but we got only two vials in four days. Doctors said that if they get four vials per day, they will scrape off the fungus,” he added.Rohit Kumar, of Hisar, said his uncle is admitted at Maharaja Agrasen Medical College, Agroha (MAMC) in Hisar and his health is deteriorating as he could not get vials as his UHID and prescribing doctor’s sign were missing.“We are hoping to get the vials on Thursday but two vials are not enough,” he added.Union minister for chemicals and fertilizer Sadanand Gowda tweeted that Haryana had 436 black fungus patients till May 25 and 1,110 vials of amphotericin-B drug, used in treatment of mucormycosis, were allocated to Haryana.Dr Aditya Bhargava, head of ENT department at PGIMS, said 60 vials are averagely required to treat a black fungus patient.PGIMS, Rohtak medical superintendent Dr Pushpa Dahiya said 104 black fungus patients are undergoing treatment at the institution and they had received over 100 vials on Tuesday, and all of these were used.“I have talked to the expert committee and asked them to provide us more vials so that we can treat patients effectively and aggressively. We can start with liposomal amphotericin injection, and switch to other drugs if that is not available. Amphotericin-B deoxycholate is also effective, but can cause kidney damage,” she said.“We are exploring other drugs that can be used to treat black fungus patients in shortage of liposomal amphotericin. I told the doctors to share details of new confirmed cases with the expert committee so that they can provide us vials after accessing a patient’s case,” she added.Dr Jasneet, nodal officer at World Medical College, Jhajjar said they got only 10 drugs and eight patients are undergoing treatment at the institution.One of the state expert committee members, Dr RS Chauhan, head of ophthalmology at PGIMS, said they are equally distributing anti-fungal drugs to the patients.“Once we get new supply, we again distribute it equally to all patients undergoing treatment,” he added.“We had already sent the prescription of 60 vials per patient. Some patients need 2-3 vials per day and some need more. We have to see the severity of the patients. We are receiving two vials per patient in two to three days of time because of shortage of drugs. We are giving the allocated drug to patients for whom it is approved,” Dr Bhargava added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/expert-committee-approving-only-2-vials-per-day-for-black-fungus-patient-in-haryana-101622051174641.html
26-05-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana’s global vaccine bid may get response from Sputnik||The global tender floated by the Haryana government on Wednesday to purchase 10 million Covid-19 vaccine doses is more likely to get a response from Russian manufactured Sputnik V than any other global manufacturer.This is because Sputnik V is the only vaccine besides Covishield of Serum Institute of India and Covaxin of Bharat Biotech which has been granted emergency use authorisation (EUA) by the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI), officials said.The two dose Gam-Covid-Vac combined vector vaccine, popularly known as Sputnik-V, has been developed by M/s Gamaleya Institute, Russia and is approved in 30 countries across the globe. US manufactured Pfizer BioNTech Covid vaccine which had also applied for EUA had withdrawn after the DCGI decided not to approve it.Haryana’s tender document though has allowed manufacturers who have applied for DCGI approval to bid for the Covid vaccine though their purchase orders will be issued only after an approval by the DCGI. The Covid vaccine storage condition of 2-8°C stipulated in the bid document also covers all available vaccines.While Dr Reddy’s Lab has an agreement with the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) to sell 250 million doses of Sputnik V, the RDIF has entered into partnership with six companies to collectively contract manufacture more than 850 million doses.CHINA STANDS DEBARRED FROM BIDDINGChina which manufactures Sinopharm and Sinovac vaccines stands debarred from participating in the global tender.“Bidder or manufacturers of Covid vaccine should not belong to countries sharing borders with India,” said a clause in the tender document for the Covid vaccine.Officials said the clause debarring China is in line with the restrictions imposed by central government in public procurement from bidders of certain countries on grounds of defence or national security.As per the notice inviting online bids floated by the Haryana Medical Services Corporation Ltd (HMSCL), Covid vaccine manufacturers, their Indian partners or direct importers are eligible to participate in the tender.The bidding will be conducted through open competitive bidding following a two-bid process - technical and financial bid. The bids close on June 4 and technical bids will be opened the same day.The bidder should have a valid license to manufacture and export the vaccine to India as per specifications mentioned in the tender from the competent authority or the food and drugs administration.PRICE FALL CLAUSEA price fall clause in the tender document said that if at any time during execution of the contract, the controlled price becomes lower or the contractor reduces the sale price or sells or offer to sell vaccine at a price lower than the price chargeable under the contract, then the price payable under the contract for the vaccine supplied will stand correspondingly reduced.“The quantity mentioned is only indicative and may be increased or decreased as per requirement. Bidders can also quote items under any of Indian, British or United States or European Pharmacopoeia but should clearly mention the same at the time of bidding the same,” the tender said.The bidder should have manufactured and supplied satisfactorily vaccines either directly or through authorised dealer to any national government of which at least 30 million doses should have been supplied in the last one year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryanas-global-vaccine-bid-may-get-response-from-sputnik-101622051118343.html
26-05-2021||Other||Khattar inaugurates ECMO machine at KCGMCH, Karnal||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Wednesday virtually inaugurated the extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO) facility to help treat critically ill Covid patients at the Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College and Hospital (KCGMCH) in Karnal.After the inauguration, the CM said the therapy is already in practice at PGIMS, Rohtak and will help save lives of critical Covid patients.“This machine can be used to treat critically ill Covid patients whose lungs are damaged and require ventilator support during their treatment,” he added.The CM hailed the contribution of social and religious organisations and urged the citizens to come forward and extend their cooperation to social institutions during the hour of need.He inaugurated a 10 MT medical oxygen storage tank and jetting-cum-suction machine for cleaning purposes at KCGMCH to double the capacity of oxygen storage in the hospital to 20 MT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/khattar-inaugurates-ecmo-machine-at-kcgmch-karnal-101622050755131.html
26-05-2021||Other||Never saw such rush of bodies before, say Panipat volunteers||Five volunteers from Panipat district have been working tirelessly to arrange a dignified cremation to Covid-19 victims, claiming to have dealt with over 600 bodies since the pandemic gripped the country last year, 450 of them in April-May this year alone.The organisation — Jan Sewa Dal (JSD) — has been cremating unclaimed bodies for 10 years, but only five members stood up to the occasion when it came to Covid victims. The members who are doing this volunteer service have their private businesses and are in the age group of 40 to 60 years.JSD member Chaman Lal Gulati says they attend to all bodies irrespective of their religion. “We arranged burial for six Muslims even,” he said.“We have been cremating unclaimed bodies for the past ten years, but I never saw such a large number of deaths as we even cremated 35 bodies in a day,” said another member Kapil Malhotra. At the peak of the pandemic earlier this month they were cremating bodies round the clock, having their food in the cremation ground itself, he added.“Kin of most of the victims didn’t even stay to witness the cremation, and nobody came to collect the ashes of 35 victims. We had to take them to Haridwar for immersion,” said Gulati.They said since March last year, they have spent most of the time with the Covid victims but not even a single member of the team got infected. Each member of the team gets himself tested for Covid every fourth day.According to them, the second wave is now receding and the number of daily Covid deaths has come down to four-five from 15-20 earlier. The JSD has hundreds of regular donors and it also provide free ambulance service, free food and medical assistance to the poor Covid patients.However, there is big difference in number of deaths claimed by the district health authorities and the number of bodies cremated by the JSD. The state health department records only 406 Covid victims in Panipat district. The officials said that several patients from NCR districts especially from Delhi also died in different hospitals.Panipat chief medical officer Dr Jitender Kadyan said, “In our record, we have reported the deaths of people, who belonged to the district and they (JSD) might have also cremated bodies of people who do not belong to Panipat.”Panipat’s nodal officer for Covid Ravinder Malik also gave the same explanation. Panipat deputy commissioner Dharmender Singh did not respond to the phone calls and text messages sent to him for his comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/never-saw-such-rush-of-bodies-before-say-panipat-volunteers-101622050694718.html
26-05-2021||Other||Can’t force anyone, but people believe in ayurveda: Vij on Coronil distribution||Amid the raging controversy over a statement by Baba Ramdev on allopathic medicines in treatment of coronavirus, Haryana will start distributing one lakh Patanjali-manufactured Coronil kits to infected patients in state this week.On viability of the medicine, state health minister Anil Vij said that they cannot force the patients to take this medicine, but many believe in ayurveda.“Both ayurveda and allopathic have their own role to play and our state’s AYUSH department is working on distribute immunity booster ayurvedic medicines and suggesting ‘asanas’ and ‘pranayam’. There might not be scientific evidence that these are helpful and there is acceptance,” Vij said.The Indian Medical Association’s (IMA) Haryana unit has termed the step as a ‘waste’, for which half of the cost will be borne by Patanjali and half from the Covid Relief Fund of Haryana.‘NO EVIDENCE TO JUSTIFY THIRD WAVE’Weeks after principal scientific advisor to the Centre, Prof K Vijay Raghavan said: “Covid’s third wave is inevitable”, Vij has contradicted the statement and said that there is no evidence to support this prediction.“People making such announcements have no proof that the third wave will come. They cannot even justify that the wave will affect children at large,” he said.On preparations and infrastructure in Haryana, Vij said the state is ready for any eventuality and there are dedicated paediatric facilities in hospitals (Nikoo ward) for this.Vij said the wastage data of Covid vaccine has also been rectified after compiling all figures and there is currently 2-2.5% vaccine wastage in state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cant-force-anyone-but-people-believe-in-ayurveda-vij-on-coronil-distribution-101622050575155.html
26-05-2021||Chandigarh||Fresh Covid cases dipping, fatalities rising in Haryana||In the last 16 days till May 25, fresh cases of Covid-19 in Haryana had been receding every day.After logging 13,548 new cases on May 9, new cases came down to 2,817 on May 25. As the new Covid cases being recorded every day are lesser than the previous day in this period, hope is dawning that the state is back on the path of recovery.On Wednesday, contrary to this trend, the state recorded 3,138 fresh cases, 321 more than the previous day.Nonetheless, in another positive indication of the second wave finally receding, the daily caseload of fresh Covid cases dipped below 5,000 after 39 days on May 24.Haryana on May 4 had logged 15,786 new cases in what was one of the highest single-day surge in the infection, according to official data.Even as the new cases are steadily coming down, the rising fatality rate (1.05%) remains a cause of concern.The number of active cases came down to 31,644 on Wednesday from 34,088 on May 25. Hisar has the highest 3,277 active cases and Nuh the lowest of 163 active cases.Sirsa has 3,041 active cases and Gurugram 2,961. Among other districts with over 2,000 active cases are Rewari 2,104, and Karnal 2,223.On Wednesday, at least 9,657 oxygen beds (other than ICU) were available in government and private hospitals across Haryana of total 14,415 oxygen beds. At least 4,758 beds were occupied on Wednesday against 5,175 on Tuesday, as per the data.Faridabad had maximum 2,047 oxygen beds available, Gurugram 1,975, Hisar 458, Panchkula 196, Rohtak 576 and Karnal 234. Karnal did not have a single bed available as all 285 oxygen beds in the ICUs are occupied.As per data, the combined number of ventilator/ICU beds in medical colleges, government hospitals and private hospitals is 5,422. On Wednesday, 2,073 beds of this category are vacant and 3,349 are occupied.The officials said the state is witnessing a respite from the once sky-rocketing medical oxygen demand.“Under oxygen at the doorsteps initiative, the state government till May 25 had delivered oxygen cylinders to 14,053 applicants in home isolation,” said an official.Under the ‘test, track and treat’ policy underway in villages, the 4,344 field teams of the health department had covered 5,291 villages and screened 22.37 lakh household, covering 1.21 crore people.Of the 6,582 villagers tested on Wednesday, 135 positive cases were detected.106 FATALITIES, 3,138 NEW CASES ON WEDNESDAYHaryana on Wednesday recorded 106 fatalities, 3,138 new cases of Covid and 5,476 recoveries, according to the health bulletin.Against 50,545 samples taken on Tuesday, 52,762 samples were taken in the last 24 hours. The fatality rate rose from 1.04% on Tuesday to 1.05% and the death toll stood at 7,841.Hisar registered 16 fatalities, Jind 14, Sirsa 13, seven each in Gurugram, Bhiwani and Jhajjar, five in Panipat, four each in Karnal, Kurukshetra, Mahendergarh and Fatehabad, three each in Rewari, Palwal and Charkhi Dadri, and one each in Yamunanagar and Kaithal.Among the new cases, Sirsa recorded the highest 547 new cases, followed by Rewari 305, Hisar 264, Gurugram 187, Sonepat 163, Karnal 144 and Faridabad 135.There were 31,644 active patients and the recovery rate rose to 94.72%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/fresh-covid-cases-dipping-fatalities-rising-in-haryana-101622050520011.html
26-05-2021||Other||Haryana farmers observe ‘black day’||Following the call of the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), farmers on Wednesday observed ‘black day’ across Haryana to mark six months of their agitation against Centre’s three farm laws and a legal guarantee on the minimum support price (MSP).Farmers hoisted black flags at the protest site tents, houses, vehicles and villages.INLD general secretary Abhay Singh Chautala, who had resigned from the Haryana assembly in support of the agitation, marked ‘black day’ at his Teja Khera farmhouse in Sirsa.Farmers wore black badges and burnt effigies of PM Modi, Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar and his deputy Dushyant Chautala at Tikri, Singhu, Khatkar toll plaza in Jind, Rohad in Rohtak, Kitlana toll plaza in Bhiwani and many other areas.At Tikri border, the protesters took out a bike rally, led by BKU Ekta (Ugrahan) chief Joginder Singh Ugrahan.Ugrahan said they are ready for a long-haul and farmers have started coming to all protest sites after harvesting their crops.“We will not go back until the farm laws are repealed. We will discuss the next moves to intensify the agitation. We are ready to hold talks with the government and are waiting for government’s response,” he added.Hundreds of women participated in the protest at Karnal’s Bastara toll plaza by wearing black scarves.“Men of our families are leading the protest in Delhi and we have come here to hold protest as our agitation has completed six months,” said protester Sonia Tanwar at Bastara toll plaza.In Kurukshetra, leaders associated with BKU (Charuni) took out a protest march. BKU (Charuni) spokesperson Rakesh Bains said farmers are camping on Delhi borders for the last six months but government is not concerned about them.He said the government is misleading people and is not ready to hold talks even as the morcha leaders have written to the PM.In Panipat, the protesters gathered outside BJP’s district office and burnt effigies of the PM and the CM.Similarly protests were reported in all sub-divisions and district headquarters of Panipat, Kurukshetra and Kaithal.SKM leader Inderjit Singh said farmers, including women and children, came out in large numbers at all protest sites to observe ‘black day’.Some farmers were seen flouting Covid norms by not wearing masks or maintaining social distance.Farmers observed ‘black day’ at the Shambhu toll plaza (Ambala-Patiala Border) in Ambala and at Milk Majra toll plaza in Yamunanagar.BKU’s Ambala district vice-president Gulab Singh said, “There is some movement on part of the government as now, their leaders in Punjab have started expressing anger over no solution. The government must have assumed that we will leave the protest sites, but we are ready to face them for years.”Political parties including the Congress, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), Haryana Democratic Front and many labour unions supported the protest.PINK DHARNA IN ROHTAKPink ‘dharna’ was started by women at Rohtak’s Kheri Asadh village against the farm laws. This is the first dharna site in Haryana led by women protesters.Jagmati Sangwan said women from across villages will gather here every day in rotation.“This site is setup to mobilise women protesters. All activities here will be supervised by women. We plan to setup such dharnas across state,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/haryana-farmers-observe-black-day-101622050402411.html
26-05-2021||Pune||Lt Gen JS Nain asks station commanders to assist police in paper leak joint investigation||: Lieutenant General JS Nain, Army commander, Southern Command, has expressed support to a joint investigation between the police and the army in the paper leak case that has recently led to a Lieutenant Colonel-rank officer’s arrest. “Lt Gen JS Nain, Army commander, Southern Command has issued strict instructions to all the station commanders in the area of responsibility to assist in the ongoing investigations. He has instituted proactive measures to enable early completion of the investigations,” read a statement from the defence spokesperson. The statement also pointed out that the investigation began due to an initial tip-off by the sources inside the Indian Army about the leak of question paper for soldier recruitment entrance test that was to be held at 40 centres across the country for 30,000 aspirants on February 28. “Timely actions and wholehearted support by Army to the police is reflective of Army’s resolve to weed out mal practices and make the existing recruitment system fool proof and robust. The interest in the youth to join Armed forces needs no reiteration. The Army therefore continues to implement strict checks and balances to ensure a transparent recruitment process,” reads a part of the statement. In a statement in the early days of the investigation, the Army officials had stated a joint investigation in the paper leak. As it turned out later on in the investigation, the leak and sharing of paper before the exam was done by a wide-spread network. So far, the police have arrested 12 people in 2 cases - one each at Vishrantwadi and Wanowrie police station. Of the 12, nine are arrested in the Wanowrie case while three are arrested in the Vishrantwadi case. Among the arrested men are three serving Indian Army officers - one Lieutenant Colonel and two Majors. The ones arrested so far include Lt Col Bhagatpreetsingh Sartajsingh Bedi (44) from Secunderabad, Telanagana; Major Thiru Murugan Thangavelu (47); Major Vasant Vijay Kilari (45), Vira Prasad Kotiswamy Narnepati (41) from Delhi cantonemnt, Kishore Mahadev Giri (40), Malegaon in Baramati; Madhav Sheshrao Gitte (38) a resident of Sappers vihar colony in Pune; another accused called Bharat Lakshman Adakmol (37) from Pachora, Pune; Gopal Yuvraj Koli (31) a resident of BEG Center in Dighi; and Uday Dattu Auti (23) a resident of BEG Khadki - all in Wanowrie case. The ones arrested in Vishrantwadi were identified as Ali Akhtar Khan (47), Azad Lalmohammed Khan (37) and Mahendra Chandrabhan (37).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/lt-gen-js-nain-asks-station-commanders-to-assist-police-in-paper-leak-joint-investigation-101622049493961.html
26-05-2021||Bhopal||Covid-19: 'Will relax curfew from June 1 but...', Madhya Pradesh CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan writes to people||Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Wednesday posted a message on Facebook for the people of the state saying that the government will relax Covid-19 restrictions in the state beginning from June 1. However, Chouhan also prescribed restraint to avoid yet another flare-up in the number of cases in the state.“We will relax the curfew from 1 June. But we don't have to leave the house suddenly or organise big events. This could make the situation worse. We have suffered a lot. Many people have lost their lives. We don't want such a situation to return,” Chouhan said in a post written in Hindi.“Lockdown will be opened up in a scientific way. We have prepared a roadmap for this. Large events like marriages, religious events and political rallies will not be permitted. We do not have to stop being careful now,” the chief minister further said.Also read | Madhya Pradesh to begin Covid unlocking process from June 1: CMWarning about the third wave of Covid-19, he wrote that the cases will flare up suddenly if people do not remain cautious. “We should not let the third wave arrive. Now we have to get used to living with Covid-19. If we go out of the house, we will go with a facemask. If someone is found without a mask, we will question them too. By keeping yourself safe, you keep your family safe,” Chouhan said. In his appeal, the chief minister also asked people to make the fight against coronavirus a social movement and show a new way in controlling the disease.Madhya Pradesh on Wednesday recorded 2,182 new Covid-19 cases and 72 fatalities. So far, 771,878 people have tested positive and 7,758 patients have lost their lives in the state. Active caseload currently stands at 43,265 and 720,855 people have recovered from their infections so far, a medical bulletin from the state health department, on Wednesday, showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/covid19-will-relax-curfew-from-june-1-but-madhya-pradesh-cm-shivraj-singh-chouhan-writes-to-people-101622046822211.html
26-05-2021||Pune||Two deers found dead near Chandani chowk||Two spotted deers were found dead at Chandani chowk on two separate days after both of them wandered their ways from the forest near the National Defence Academy (NDA) road. The first one was found on the evening of May24th, and the second deer was found dead on the morning of May 25th. “Both of them came together from the side of the NDA where the wall construction work is going on,” said Deepak Pawar, range forest officer from Pune Division. With many forests near Chandani Chowk, spotting a deer in this area is a common sight. “One died after a dog attack which was spotted on the sides of Warje flyover while another died due to being hit by a truck near NDA road,” said Pawar. The incident came to be known to forest officials after nearby residents spotted two deer carcasses at different spots. “In the recent past, such incidents have not been reported in this area. Generally, deers are spotted far in the forest from the highway,” added Pawar. Founder-president, RESQ charitable trust, and managing committee member of Pune district society for the prevention of cruelty to. animals Neha Panchamiya said, “Such cases happen because deers come out in the search of water during this season and they are attacked by stray dogs. This generally happens to deers which are in the city limit and not to all the ones who are residing in jungles. Most of the deers which come to our RESQ are suffering from injuries happened due to dog attacks.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/two-deers-found-dead-near-chandani-chowk-101622047333806.html
26-05-2021||Pune||Pune railway police seize 279 African tortoises, 1,207 reptiles, 230 fish from two||The officials of the Pune unit of Government railway police (GRP) found hundreds of tortoises, iguanas, and fish of African origin from two men travelling on an express train on Tuesday. In three different duffle bags, the men were carrying 279 African spurred tortoise, 1,207 iguanas, and 230 beta fish, according to a statement issued by GRP. The duo was caught by the GRP team led by police inspector Maula Sayyed during a routine patrol of Chennai express on Tuesday. The two arrested men were identified as Tarunkumar Mohan (26), a resident of Lenin Nagar in Ambattur area of Chennai, Tamil Nadu, and Srinivas Kamal (20), a resident of Ikrai road in Kolathur area of Chennai, Tamil Nadu, according to the police. Both the arrested men delivered packaged fish for a living. The two have been handed over to the customs department officials for further investigation as they had no proof of having paid the custom fee for transport of the animals. “When they seized these animals, we were informed, and a team of forest officials went there. We realised immediately that these are not Indian origin animals. So, we did not think it was appropriate to book them under the Wildlife Protection Act,” said Rahul Patil, district forest officer, Pune. The tortoise species as well as iguana figure on the list of endangered species. They are used for ornamental and pet trade purpose in most circumstances, according to the forest official. The animals have been moved to the RESQ charitable trust facility in Chandani chowk area of Bavdhan. The police handed over the animals to the facility where they were counted. “The International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) red list, which covers endangered animals, has at least two of these three animals which were found with them. The beta fish is not in the list. The Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES) Convention also mentions them,” said DFO Patil.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-railway-police-seize-279-african-tortoises-1-207-reptiles-230-fish-from-two-101622047093808.html
26-05-2021||Pune||Retired RTO official dies in road accident||A retired official of the Regional Transport Office (RTO) was killed in a road accident on Tuesday at noon after the bike she was riding pillion on slipped in Bopodi. The deceased woman was identified as Mangal Shankar Madne (59), a resident of Trimurti colony in Pimple Gurav area of Pune. She was riding pillion on a motorbike with her husband’s friend when the accident took place near the railway track passing through Bopodi around 11:55am on Tuesday. “They were going to the bank to submit some documents for her pension. He lost control after applying break due to some reason and it made the victim fall off the bike and directly on her head. She died of head injuries,” said police sub-inspector Sambhaji Tambe of Khadki police station. The accused was identified as Balu Ramchandra Karande (56) who has also sustained injuries. A complaint in the matter was lodged by Police Naik Pradeep Nyayneet of Khadki police station. A case under Sections 304(a), 279 of Indian Penal Code and Sections 184, 132(1)(c), and 119/177 of Motor Vehicle Act was registered at Khadki police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/retired-rto-official-dies-in-road-accident-101622047033828.html
26-05-2021||Pune||38-year-old Hadapsar resident arrested from Goa hotel for cheating||The cyber sleuths of Pune police have arrested a Hadapsar-based person identified as Rajkumar Wani (38), originally a resident of Ahmednagar from a plush Goa hotel on charges of cheating a Vishrantwadi-based resident to the tune of ₹7.25 lakh. According to the police, the accused promised the victim that he would pay handsome commission on Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) funds which he would transfer in his company account on the condition that he would share 50 per cent of that amount. The victim identified as Anil Mhaske (47) agreed to the deal and asked his friend who had a company account to deposit the money with Wani. The accused then prepared a bogus Demand Draft (DD) of ₹7 crore and showed it to him and said that he will deposit the same in the account for credit but did not do as promised. In the meantime, Mhaske had credited the amount in his account and thereafter Wani became evasive and avoided the victim, police said. Mhaske sensed something fishy and lodged a complaint with the cyber cell. Police inspector Dagadu Hake said that Wani showed as if he was a very big person and promised him the money through giving CSR funds. “The victim fell prey to his machinations and informed his friend about the account in which the money will come. Accordingly, they transferred ₹7.25 lakh to the accused. In the meantime, they got alerted due to his behaviour and a complaint was lodged. We are in search of two persons who were in the know of the entire thing and we are closing on the accused who had prepared a bogus DD to assist the accused in the crime. It seems that there are many other angles in the crime, and they will be unraveled soon. The accused has been remanded to seven days police custody,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/38yearold-hadapsar-resident-arrested-from-goa-hotel-for-cheating-101622046973735.html
26-05-2021||Pune||Husband booked after wife dies by suicide||A 24-year-old woman died by suicide within eight months of her wedding in Pune due to domestic abuse by her husband who taunted her for not knowing how to cook, according to the police. The man has, however, not yet been arrested. The two married on September 18, 2020, and the woman died by suicide in their house in Premnagar Vasahat of Market Yard on May 24 around 4:30pm, according to the police. A complaint in the matter was lodged by her elder sister who also lives in Pune. The complainant told the police that her sister’s husband had started beating her up for reasons like not being able to cook meals and not taking care of his parents and their needs. Later on, the man also allegedly started beating her up and verbally abusing her for speaking to people from her own family on the phone for long hours, according to the police. In her final days, the man had allegedly started provoking her to kill herself to rid himself of her, according to the complaint. A case under Sections 306 (abetment to suicide), 498(a) (domestic violence), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 504 (insult with an intention of provoking beach of peace) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Market Yard police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/husband-booked-after-wife-dies-by-suicide-101622046613714.html
26-05-2021||Lucknow||Cleaning of Gomti begins after minister’s intervention||The green carpet of weeds covering the river Gomti in Lucknow will be cleared in next 10 days, said officials on Wednesday.The cleaning process began after UP’s urban development minister Ashutosh Tandon issued instructions in this regard to the Lucknow Municipal Corporation (LMC) and the irrigation department. The LMC has divided the river into five sectors for cleaning purpose.“The first sector is the area from pontoon bridge to Kudia Ghat. In this sector around 1500 metric tons of water weed is present. The sector II is the area between Kudia Ghat and Pucca Pul, where around 11 metric tons of weed is present. In third sector, area between Pucca pul and railway bridge around 500 metric tons of water weed is present while the area between Jhule Lal Vatika to Hanuman Setu is marked as sector 4 where around 1850 metric tons of weed is present. The area from Hanuman Setu to Gomti Barrage is marked as sector 5 where around 100 tons of weed is expected,” said municipal commissioner Ajay Dwivedi.“The LMC has arranged five JCBs, five Poclain machines, 27 boats along with 86 labourers for the job,” said Dwivedi.Urban development minister Ashutosh Tandon has ordered joint inspection of the river by the LMC and the irrigation department for cleaning the river.The minister has also directed to fix filters at the points where 80 small and big nullahs of the city fall into the river. The minister also directed the municipal commissioner to complete cleaning of all the nullahs in the next 15 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/cleaning-of-gomti-begins-days-after-dirty-pictures-go-viral-101622045118497.html
26-05-2021||Lucknow||After row over appointment under EWS quota, brother of UP minister resigns from post of assistant professor||Basic education minister Satish Chandra Dwivedi’s brother Arun Dwivedi, whose appointment as assistant professor at psychology department of Siddharth University, Kapilvastu, under the economically weaker section (EWS) quota sparked a controversy, resigned on Wednesday.“I was appointed on the post as per the proper procedure, but it is my misfortune that it led to a controversy soon after my joining. My only crime is that I am a Brahmin and a minister’s brother,” said Arun, who had to resign from the post within five days of his appointment on May 21.In a press statement, Arun said, “He was pained to see how some people used media and social media to malign the image of my elder brother Satish Chand Dwivedi, who is basic education minister, following my appointment as assistant professor under the EWS quota.”University vice chancellor Prof Surendra Dubey said, “He has received Arun Dwivedi’s resignation letter and it has been accepted.”The University registrar Rakesh Kumar has communicated to Arun Dwivedi that his resignation has been accepted.Arun said the reputation of his minister brother was more important to him than his appointment and he cannot bear that it was being maligned in public because of the controversy.Arun read out the statement before journalists with a choked voice.He listed out all his qualifications to make a point that he wasn’t under qualified for the job.The statement came a day after he broke his silence on the controversy, saying his documents were not fake, and his brother may be a minister, but he doesn’t pay for his expenses.The appointment had created a political storm with the opposition seeking minister’s resignation on the issue.Arun’s wife is also an assistant professor in another institution, reason why opposition parties claimed that his appointment under EWS quota wasn’t justified.Social activist Nutan Thakur had complained to governor Anandiben Patel and thereafter it hogged media attention.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/after-row-over-appointment-under-ews-quota-brother-of-up-minister-resigns-from-post-of-assistant-professor-101622044333631.html
26-05-2021||Ranchi||Cyclone Yaas hits J’khand, thousands evacuated from low-lying areas||Strap: Around 5,000 people have been evacuated from bordering districts -East Singhbhum, West Singhbhum and Seraikela-Kharsawan; Trees, electricity poles uprooted at many places  Thousands of people living in low-lying areas and makeshift houses in Jharkhand’s East Singhbhum, West Singhbhum and Seraikela-Kharsawan districts were evacuated to safer places in wake of Cyclone Yaas making landfall in neighbouring states of Odisha and West Bengal on Wednesday morning. The three districts were red alert areas of Jharkhand in view of the cyclone. An orange alert has been issued for Ranchi, Khunti and Gumla districts. These districts experienced light to moderate rainfall since Wednesday morning, that was likely to intensify into heavy to very heavy rainfall by night due to the impact of the cyclone. Senior scientist at Ranchi centre of India Meteorological Department (IMD), Abhishek Anand said, “Light to moderate rainfall is expected in most parts of Jharkhand, while southern parts of the state such as East Singhbhum, West Singhbhum, Seraikela-Kharsawan and Simdega are likely to experience heavy to very heavy rainfall, while similar weather condition is likely for Ranchi, Khunti and Gumla during next 24 hours.” Jamshedpur recorded the highest 56mm rainfall from 8.30am till 5.30pm on Wednesday, while Ranchi recorded 33mm rainfall during the period. Due to rains and winds, several trees and electricity poles were uprooted. However, special teams deputed to deal with the climatic event were busy in restoring the normal situation. Rainwater gushed in low-lying areas of these districts. East Singhbhum deputy commissioner Suraj Kumar said they began evacuating people from Tuesday evening. “We have evacuated more than 2,500 people from low lying and vulnerable areas and people living in thatched houses.” The district has set up 241 shelter houses, while two National Disaster Response Force teams have also been deployed. Meanwhile, additional collector of West Singhbhum district Ejaz Anwar said they have evacuated over 1,000 people and set up around 200 evacuation centres, where food and drinking water facilities have been made available. As many as 13 relief centres have been set up at Adityapur municipal area, where people who were living in makeshift houses were shifted, said chief executive officer of Adityapur Municipal Commission, Girija Shankar. Besides, at least 13 trains that depart or pass through Ranchi railway station have already been cancelled in view of the cyclone. However, flight service remained unaffected in Ranchi. Chief minister Hemant Soren has directed alternative arrangements of electricity for hospitals and ensuring oxygen back up-so that patients do not suffer. According to the IMD, cyclone Yaas was likely to enter Jharkhand from southern parts of Jharkhand by Wednesday night and expected to reach Khunti district by 5.30am on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/cyclone-yaas-hits-j-khand-thousands-evacuated-from-low-lying-areas-101622043793826.html
26-05-2021||Ranchi||State refutes Centre’s claim of 37% vaccine wastage||The Hemant Soren-led state government has refuted Union health ministry’s claim of the most vaccine wastage proportion in Jharkhand among all states at 37%, saying that wastage proportion in the state was only 4.65%, which is lesser than the national average. The national average of wastage of doses is 6.3%. Reacting to Centre’s data, the state goverment said the difference in the data was due to technical difficulties in data updation. “As per total vaccine doses availability with the state government t till Wednesday, the current vaccine wastage proportion is only 4.65%. Vaccination data could not be fully updated on the central Co-Win Server/ Platform due to technical difficulties/glitches and the updation is in process,” the office of chief minister Hemant Soren said on social media platform Twitter. In a release issued on Tuesday by the Union health ministry after a review meeting through video conferencing with administrators from states and union territories on vaccination progress, the Centre said Jharkhand was the worst when it comes to wasting vaccine shots, followed by Chhattisgarh. “States have been urged repeatedly to keep vaccine wastage below 1%; however, many states such as Jharkhand (37.3%), Chhattisgarh (30.2%), Tamil Nadu (15.5%), Jammu and Kashmir (10.8%), and Madhya Pradesh (10.7%) are reporting much higher wastage than the national average (6.3%),” the Union health ministry’s statement said. The data came at a time when the Covid-19 vaccination drive has slowed down or halted across the country amid repeated complaints by many states regarding vaccine shortage.“The government of Jharkhand is fully focused on utilising it’s available vaccine doses in the most prudent manner possible, ensuring minimal wastage. We hope to minimise it further with more focused vaccination awareness campaigns in deep forested and other rural areas of the state,” the CM’s office statement said. As per the latest data provided by the state government on Wednesday, as many as 3,336,950 persons above 45 years of age have received their first dose, while second dose has been administered to 688,147 persons. In the 18-45 category, 437,122 persons have been inoculated with the first dose till date.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/state-refutes-centre-s-claim-of-37-vaccine-wastage-101622043733666.html
26-05-2021||Other||Teachers’ recruitment: Bihar moves HC for lifting stay||PATNAThe Bihar government has moved the Patna High Court seeking removal of its stay on recruitment of 1.25 lakh primary and secondary school teachers. The court had stayed the recruitment while hearing a writ petition filed by the Blind Association, which claimed 4% quota for the physically challenged, including visually impaired, was not being honoured. Advocate genera Lalit Kishore said he made a special mention before the division bench of Chief Justice Sanjay Karol and Justice Sanjay Kumar for an early hearing in the case, as requested by education minister Vijay Kumar Choudhary, as the state was ready to start the recruitment process.“The matter was mentioned earlier also and it was scheduled for hearing in March itself, but It could not happen due to Holi and Covid-19 second wave. I made another mention on Tuesday. The government is ready to keep 4% vacancy aside and wants the process for the remaining 96% to continue with court’s permission,” the AG said.He said the Chief Justice had directed the court master to place the file before him. Education minister Vijay Kumar Chowdhary had earlier said that the government was ready to go ahead with the new recruitment process for teachers fully enforcing the reservation roster formula if the court so allowed.“The government will guarantee adherence to the reservation roster in letter and spirit. The government wants to give benefits to all the categories. We have to carry out around 91,000 recruitments in elementary schools and 30,000 plus in secondary and higher schools. As soon as we get the go-ahead from the court, the process will be on. We will assure the court that there will be no deviation from the roster,” he had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/teachers-recruitment-bihar-moves-hc-for-lifting-stay-101622043614243.html
26-05-2021||Other||Cyclone Yaas brings rain in Bihar; ECR cancels trains||PATNACyclone Yaas brought light to moderate rain and stormy weather at several places in Bihar, said officials of Patna Meteorological Centre on Wednesday.Meteorologists said the state is likely to receive widespread heavy rain coupled with thunderstorm on Thursday and Friday.Weatherman SK Patel, said, “Very severe cyclone Yaas made landfall over Odisha in daytime. Afterwards, the cyclonic storm has weakened. Outer cloud band of the cyclone has already hit Bihar, which triggered light to moderate rain. Wind gusted at the speed of 24 to 26 kmph in the state. Rain activities are likely to intensify in next 24 to 48 hours.”“The impact of cyclone Yaas will be higher over southern and central parts of the state in comparison to north Bihar. The major impact of cyclone Yaas is expected to be felt over districts of Gaya, Katihar, Buxar, Aurangabad. Bhojpur, East and West Champaran,” he said.Meanwhile, the state government has deployed 22 disaster management teams in districts adjoining Jharkhand and West Bengal. An emergency control room with helpline number 0612-2210118 for 24x7 has been set up in Patna for monitoring of the cyclone situation.Patna district magistrate Chandrashekhar Singh said, “Instructions have been given to ensure uninterrupted power supply, especially at government and private hospitals where Covid-19 treatment is going on. Electricity department has been asked to keep generators ready for backup to avoid any inconvenience. The forest division and civic body has been directed to be ready for removing uprooted trees to ensure free vehicular movement.”Trains cancelledThe East Central Railway (ECR) has announced the cancellation of more long-distance trains in view of the cyclone, its chief public relations officer (CPRO) Rajesh Kumar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cyclone-yaas-brings-rain-in-bihar-ecr-cancels-trains-101622043613585.html
26-05-2021||Other||CM reviews steps to fight AES as Muzaffarpur reports 1st death this year||Muzaffarpur A day after a two-year-old child died of acute encephalitis syndrome (AES) at Sri Krishna Medical College and Hospital in Muzaffarpur, chief minister Nitish Kumar on Wednesday reviewed the preparedness and announced extension of the socio-economic survey to all the AES-affected districts, including the five blocks of Muzaffarpur where it is already going on.This is the first case of death of a child in the district due to AES this year. Sitamarhi, East and West Champaran have reported one AES death each this year The disease, which mainly affects children below 15 years of age and returns almost every year in certain districts of north Bihar, particularly Muzaffarpur, has left over 200 children dead in 2019 alone.Confirming the death, deputy superintendent of the SKMCH, Dr GS Sahni, said the child, registered as Md Afran of Paru area, was brought to the hospital on Monday morning with high temperature and convulsions. “Pathological and clinical tests confirmed AES in him. His blood sugar level was also very low, resulting in his on Tuesday,” he said, adding that altogether 20 cases of confirmed AES have been reported so far.Last year, the state had selected 15 endemic districts for AES and Japanese encephalitis survey. Nearly 22 districts were affected by AES last year.This year, 14 teams, having two members in each group from All India Institute of Medical Sciences at Jodhpur, have reached in the villages worse affected last year.Talking to media persons, team leader and HOD of neo-natal department at AIIMS-Jodhpur, Dr AK Singh, said his team members would collect data from the affected families. “The teams will collect data regarding the food habits of children below five years of age and about other activities from their guardians,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cmreviews-steps-to-fight-aes-as-muzaffarpur-reports-1st-death-this-year-101622043553635.html
26-05-2021||Other||Misappropriation of CSW funds: Collector to review probe report on May 27||PUNE The district collector will review the report presented by an inquiry committee under the chairmanship of a sub-divisional officer on the misappropriation of state funds for sex workers. Part of the ₹7.94 crore, released by the Maharashtra government as financial aid to be paid to sex workers (CSW) in Pune, because of the Covid-19 pandemic, was deposited in accounts of women who were not CSWs.Pune collector Rajesh Deshmukh said, “I have received the data and the report from the inquiry committee will be reviewed on May 27.”Meanwhile, the police have not been successful in apprehending the main culprit in the case. According to PI Krishna Indalkar of Dattawadi police station, “Prasad Sonawane, district-level National Aids Control organization (NACO) officer, is the only person with authority who planned the misappropriations of funds. NACO was the only organisation authorised to verify the sex workers before delegating the funds. The office has 7,100 women registered as sex workers. Of that, the funds reached 6,000 women.”Meanwhile, the collector has appealed to CSWs to come forward and register their complaints.An appeal has also been made that the complaint should be lodged with the sub-divisional officer’s office along with documents of evidence, or by e-mail with Venkatesh Chiramulla, divisional officer, Hadapsar (9823398712) on tashsildarhavelipune@gmail.com; or Rajesh Divte, Talathi, Hadapsar (9168232519), or Prakash Whitkar, deputy tehsildar, (9423339192) or on tahasildarpunecity@gmail.com; or Parikshit Dhavare, Talathi, Parvati (8329963056).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/misappropriation-of-csw-funds-collector-to-review-probe-report-on-may-27-101622041813472.html
26-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra records 24,752 new Covid-19 cases and 453 deaths, tally tops 5.65 million||Maharashtra recorded 24,752 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the last 24 hours, which took the state’s infection tally to 5,650,907, according to the health department's bulletin on Wednesday. In the same period, 453 lives were lost due to the viral disease, taking the related death toll in the state to 91,341.The recovery rate has mounted to 92.76% after 23,065 people recovered in the said time period, taking the total number of recovered cases to 5,241,833. The positivity rate stood at 8.73% as the latest cases were out of 283,394 samples tested for the disease, a rise from 264,275 tests mentioned in the previous bulletin. The total number of tests conducted till now stand at 33,824,959.The state’s capital city of Mumbai saw its tally rise above the 700,000-mark, as 1,352 new cases took the city’s total positive cases to 700,340. On Tuesday, 1,029 people tested positive in the metropolis. The related death toll reached 14,684 with 34 more fatalities, as against 37 on Tuesday.This is the seventh straight day when the western state has seen less than 30,000 Covid-19 cases in a day. On May 19, its caseload rose by 34,031 fresh infections, while the related death toll on the day was 594.Among the worst-hit districts, Nagpur saw 685 more positive cases from 16,849 tests, while 1,754 people recovered from the infection. There were 16 related fatalities as well.Maharashtra, whose Covid-19 tally is the highest in the country, is currently under lockdown-like restrictions, which were extended till June 1 earlier this month. The state cabinet, headed by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray is likely to take a call this week on extending the restrictions, extending with certain relaxations, or lifting the curbs completely. Also, the state government has already suspended vaccination against the virus for the 18-44 age group, citing shortage of vaccine doses. The doses meant for the inoculation of this age group are being diverted to be used as second doses for those above the age of 45.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-records-24-752-new-covid-19-cases-and-453-deaths-tally-tops-5-65-mn-101622036509061.html
26-05-2021||Indore||Shortage of Amphotericin B in Indore as black fungus cases rise||Amid the rising number of cases of mucormycosis or 'black fungus', Indore is grappling with a shortage of key Amphotericin-B injection used in its treatment. The situation can be gauged from the fact that only 100 doses of this anti-fungal drug were distributed among 218 patients admitted to 23 private hospitals in the city while the need was much higher, an official of the Government Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Medical College told PTI. On Tuesday, 23 private hospitals could get only 50 doses of Amphotericin-B for 221 patients admitted there. “Usually, four to six doses of Amphotericin-B are to be administered on the first day of treatment to black fungus patients. After that, three to four doses are needed every day for the next 10-days,” said Dr Ravi Dosi, head, Chest Diseases Department in Sri Aurobindo Institute of Medical Sciences (SAIMS). A doctor working with a private hospital said the shortage of Amphotericin-B has been adversely affecting the treatment of black fungus patients. Officials said city's four stockists are currently providing Amphotericin-B injections but its supply remains extremely low against the huge demand forcing the distressed family members of the patients to do rounds of medicine stores. Some of the needy have started seeking help on social media, they added. According to officials, more than 350 patients of black fungus remain admitted in local government and private health institutions. These include patients from other districts of the state in addition to those from Indore. Cases of mucormycosis, a serious infection, have been found in Covid-19 patients in various states. Black fungus infection is found in some of the patients recovering from Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/indore-news/shortage-of-amphotericin-b-in-indore-as-black-fungus-cases-rise-101622038367203.html
26-05-2021||Chandigarh||Law to recover for damage to property during violent protests comes into effect in Haryana||A law which allows the authorities to recover compensation from violent protesters who cause damage to property has come into effect in Haryana.Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij said on Wednesday that the Act was notified by the state government earlier this month.Also Read | Haryana passes recovery of damage to property Bill amid Opposition protest"With the implementation of the Act in the state, any damage done to people's shops, houses, government offices, vehicles, buses and other public property in guise of any movement will be recovered from the protesters," he said, as per an official statement.Governor Satyadeo Narain Arya had given his assent to the Haryana Recovery of Damages to Property During Disturbance to Public Order Bill, 2021 last month after it was passed by the state Assembly in March.The law allows the authorities to recover compensation for damage caused to both public and private properties.When the bill was brought in the Assembly in March, Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar and Home Minister Vij had denied the Congress' charge that the decision to bring it was linked to the farmers' agitation against the Centre's farm laws.For adjudicating upon pleas for compensation for damage to properties, the new law provides for the government to set up claim tribunals in the state.These tribunals will be headed by Haryana Superior Judicial Services officers, to be appointed in consultation with the chief justice of the Punjab and Haryana High Court.The tribunals will determine the liability, assess the claims for compensation and decide the monetary value of damages, and on such determination, award suitable compensations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-law-to-recover-for-damage-to-property-during-protests-comes-into-effect-101622038607427.html
26-05-2021||Other||Pune-Nashik railway line runs into objections from villagers in Khed||PUNE The land acquisition process for the Pune-Nashik semi- high-speed railway line has begun in Pune district. District officials and officials of the Maharashtra Rail Infrastructure Development Corporation (Maharail) have started the land measurement process. In Khed tehsil, however, they is a strong resistance from four villages. Land owners from these villages have sought clarity on the proposed construction plan as agricultural lands are going to be divided. The issue of low monetary returns in exchange for fertile agricultural land, has also been raised. The proposed length of the semi-high-speed railway line is 235 km. There are 24 stations and 18 tunnels planned on the route. The speed of the train will be 200 km per hour and the expected cost of the project is ₹16,039 crore. This railway line is expected to reduce travelling time between Pune and Nashik to two hours. A total of 1,458 hectares in 107 villages across three districts will be acquired for this project. Land owners in villages such as Holewadi, Manjarewadi, Rase and Kelgaon in Khed tehsil have also raised objections. “I have three acres in Holewadi and one acre is going to be affected by this project. There is no clarity from the rail officers about planning. My land is going to be divided in two parts. How am I supposed to access the other part? They haven’t said anything about a red- zone area that land is going to remain empty and inaccessible. We should get returns on that also. We repeatedly have conveyed our objections to the officers. They have come for land measurement, so we had to take a stand to clarify the doubts,” said Jaysing Manjare, a resident of Manjarewadi. Another villager who will be losing his land in this project claimed that the rates offered for the acquisition are less than the current market price. “They are saying Takarkdwadi will be a station. If it is a junction, then more land will be needed. Also the rates which they have offered are low. If a farmer is losing his substantial means of livelihood, he should get good returns,” said Satish Rakshe, resident of Rase. In March 2021, Ajit Pawar, Maharashtra deputy chief minister and finance minister, okayed the pending Pune-Nashik railway project in his annual budget for 2021-22. The rail line will pass through Pune, Ahmednagar and Nashik. Land acquisition has begun in these three districts. Vikrant Chavhan, sub-divisional officer of Khed tehsil, said that all efforts are being made to convince the land owners. “We have held meetings in four villages in Khed tehsil. Residents of Holewadi did not let us measure the land. It is understandable that people have apprehensions. Holewadi and Manjarewadi are near Khed, and have irrigation. The rate for land is higher there. We are trying to address problems and resolve doubts,” said Chavhan. An officer of the Maharashtra Rail Infrastructure Development Corporation admitted resistance from these villages in Khed. “The land acquisition process began in April. Resistance is there in some pockets. We are trying to address their issues. We have been trying to resolve the issues of the land owners in Khed,” the officer said on condition of anonymity.Pune Nashik semi-high-speed railway lineLine will pass through main districts of Pune, Ahmednagar and Nashik, and offer connectivity to industrial zones like Chakan, Khed and NarayangaonLength: 235.15km Speed potential: 200kmph Travel time from Pune to Nashik: two hoursStations proposed: 24Tunnels: 18Project cost: ₹16,039 crore (approx.)(Source: MAHARAIL website)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punenashik-railway-line-runs-into-objections-from-villagers-in-khed-101622039173341.html
26-05-2021||Other||Standing committee sanctions ₹150 crore for restoration project at Vishrambaug wada||PUNE The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has decided to preserve and restore a canopied structure, known as a Meghdambari, that is part of the Vishrambaug wada, in itself a Grade 1 heritage structure.The PMC’s standing committee, on Wednesday, sanctioned ₹1.50 crore to restore and preserve the Meghdambari. Shivaji Lanke, superintendent engineer of the construction department of the PMC, said, “As of date, PMC has spent ₹2 crore on restoration of the wada structure. Now we will restore this Meghdambari which is made of wood. We have been given six months to complete the work.”Vishrambaug wada, influenced by the Peshwa style of architecture, was built in 1807 AD, designed by Mansaram Laxman and Daji Suthar. “In the late 1950s, when Pune was a municipal council, it was used as an administrative building,” Lanke added. The wada is primarily built out of wood and decorated with cypress tree-shaped columns. Each of these columns is built from a single teak tree, a traditional residential form of Maratha architecture. The wada sits on an acre-and-a-half of land.Meanwhile, the PMC will audit all dilapidated buildings, including wadas, before the monsoon. The PMC has also started a structural audit of its employee residential complexes, located at Wakdewadi, Pandav Nagar (Ghorpade peth), Rajewadi (Nana peth), Sane Gurujinagar and Rajendranagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/standing-committee-sanctions-150-crore-for-restoration-project-at-vishrambaug-wada-101622037913342.html
26-05-2021||Bangalore||City juice shop helps make soaps, candles from fruit waste||Famous all across Bengaluru, juice shop Eat Raja is known for its zero-waste policy. It doesn’t provide plastic glasses, straws or even tissues. Instead, everything in the shop is either reusable or a fruit product. Making the initiative truly zero waste, the juice counter also uses its fruit waste to make products such as candles and soaps and artworks such as rangoli.Anand Raaj, the owner, takes immense pride in describing his methods. “We only generate fruit waste and have a 7 x 11 segregation method. We have seven bins, out of which two are for paper and plastic that may have come from chilli powder wrappers or strawberry containers, etc. The rest of the five bins are for specific wet wastes,” says Raaj.This separated waste is used as a multipurpose tool by Raaj. He feeds the non-citrus waste to cows and uses the citrus ones to make bio enzymes. Even the seeds that are procured after making the juice are dried, filtered and used by his mother to make rangoli back at home. “After the segregation, we use the fruit pulp to make soaps, such as cucumber or strawberry soaps. It is also used to make candles by mixing the juice with wax. These are mainly fruit-infused candles and soaps. The leftover peels are turned into a powdered substance that can be used in beauty masks, facial products,” he adds.Eat Raja is also working on a 100% zero-waste delivery initiative with Zomato, which will roll out soon. Passionate about environmental protection since his college days, Raaj shares, “In college, I was a part of a club which would conduct green drives to ensure the safety of the environment. Now that I have a shop, I ensure that those principles are followed here. My mother comes from a village where these practices are a day-to-day routine. It’s just that urbanisation has made it easier for us to waste things. It’s time for us to educate the next generation about such methods and their importance.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/city-juice-shop-helps-make-soaps-candles-from-fruit-waste-101622037673978.html
26-05-2021||Chandigarh||Strawberry growers worried Covid could upset applecart in J&K||The strawberry harvest season is on in Kashmir and the cherry crop will follow suit soon, but growers are concerned about the prices their produce will fetch amid a prolonged lockdown to control the spread of Covid-19. Though the administration has assured people of easing Covid curbs if the number of coronavirus cases shows a steady decline over the next few days, the growers of these cash crops are keeping their fingers crossed. Also read: ‘A new weapon’: Dr Naresh Trehan on Covid-19 antibody cocktail“We had a good crop this year but if we aren’t able to sell the produce in the market, it is worrying. Last year, we suffered losses due to the stringent lockdown,” says Irfan Khan, who grows strawberries on six kanals at Gussu on the outskirts of Srinagar. “We used to sell most of our crop to local dealers as the consumption is good here itself,” he says. Relaxation sought for selling strawberries Horticulture director Ajaz Ahmad Bhat has written to the divisional administration, seeking marketing facilities for the strawberry growers during the lockdown. “Being a perishable fruit, strawberry needs immediate marketing. The fruit lasts only for 15 to 20 days after plucking,” Bhat wrote in his letter to the Kashmir divisional commissioner recently. He sought relaxation of a few hours for street vendors to sell strawberries. “Strawberry are full of antioxidants and rich in Vitamin C so they are good for immunity-boosting, especially for Covid-19 patients,” he said, adding that due to non-relaxation of the pandemic restrictions the growers could suffer losses. Shift to strawberries recent Strawberry farming is a recent practice in Kashmir. Most farmers in Srinagar and parts of Ganderbal who shifted to strawberry farming used to grow vegetables earlier. Gussu has the highest number of people growing strawberries and it was a profitable venture till the pandemic struck. Some farmers grow other fruits on their land to make more profit. Bhat said that due to less production, almost all the strawberries get sold in the local markets itself. “Due to the lockdown, we are looking to open sales points so that the growers won’t suffer losses,” he said. Inter-cropping, high-density apple advised Bhat visited Gussu village and interacted with strawberry growers and advised them to adopt inter-cropping and to go for high-density apple as well. “This will help growers earn even better,” he said. Officials said that strawberries are grown on more than 250 hectares in Kashmir and most of the cash crop is grown in villages of central Kashmir, especially on Srinagar’s outskirts. “The annual strawberry production is more than 2,000 to 2,500 metric tonnes and the growers earn more than ₹15 to 20 crore,” said an official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/strawberry-growers-worried-covid-could-upset-applecart-in-jk-101622030053695.html
26-05-2021||Delhi||‘More lives could’ve been saved if..’: Kejriwal slams Centre on vaccine exports||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday hit out at the Centre over its decision to export vaccines against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) to other countries rather than inoculating its own citizens. He added if Indians were inoculated on time, the impact of the second wave of the pandemic could have been less and so many people would not have to die.Addressing a press conference over Covid situation in the national capital, Kejriwal said, “India delayed vaccination by six months. Six months ago, several countries started inoculating their citizens at a mass level. We committed a big mistake. Rather than inoculating our own people, we started sending doses to other countries.”Kejriwal added that the world’s first vaccine against Covid-19 was created by Indian scientists and the Centre should have vaccinated all people on war footing. “We could have started this in December itself. But we didn't,” he further said.Also Read| Delhi has 620 cases of ‘black fungus’, facing shortage of drugs, says KejriwalThe Delhi chief minister pointed out that the Centre should have ordered doses from abroad when the second wave started in March and alleged that states were told to make arrangements by themselves.“I am in touch with several chief ministers who have been running here and there to get vaccines. From the past two months, every state is trying to arrange doses. And as per my information, no state has been able to procure an extra single shot of the vaccine from manufacturers. Exclude those which have been given by the Centre. States also floated global tenders to buy vaccines on their own, but they all failed,” Kejriwal said during the briefing.Also Read| Pfizer can supply 5 crore vaccines to India in 2021 but conditions applyPointing out that India is fighting a war against the raging pandemic, the Delhi CM said this is not a time to compete but to unite and defeat Covid-19. Kejriwal also appealed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi by saying that all chief ministers have given up their politics and are working together.“We will fulfill every responsibility alloted by you (PM Modi). But how can we do something which is not under our purview. Centre has to fulfill its own responsibilities. You (Centre) provide vaccine doses as per the requirement of the states, we will inoculate our people,” Kejriwal said at the end of the briefing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/more-lives-would-ve-been-saved-if-kejriwal-slams-centre-on-vaccine-exports-101622029580661.html
26-05-2021||Dehradun||Haridwar gets mounted cavalry squad to rein in curfew violators||The administration in Uttarakhand’s Haridwar has, from Wednesday, deployed mounted cavalry squad to check on Covid lockdown violators. District police officials said they have started with four mounted squads, comprising two personnel each, who have been deployed at sensitive and congested clusters of Har-Ki-Pauri city Mela zone, Kankhal and suburban Jwalapur. “The directions came from the state director general of police. These squads will also appeal to people and educate them about adhering to Covid curfew guidelines as well as social distancing, and wearing face masks. They will also penalise the violators,” said Superintendent of police (city) Kamlesh Upadhyay. On Tuesday, 1,390 people were penalised, and 17 were seized over violation of Covid curfew which is in place till June 1. Also Read | Muslim men perform final rites of Hindu man in Haridwar“At core Mela zone of Har-Ki-Pauri and adjacent Ganga ghats markets of Bada Bazar, Moti Bazar, Jhanvi market, Upper Road and Shiv Moorti square area, police are keeping tabs on Covid-19 protocol violators,” said station house officer, police station city, Amarjeet Singh. Meanwhile, a section of traders has started opposing the move of police to penalise the violators. Staging a protest at Bada Bazar, close to Har-Ki-Pauri, under the aegis of Bada Bazar Vyapar Mandal, traders alleged that police are harassing traders, vendors, locals, and pilgrims in name of Covid curfew. “For the past 14 months, we have suffered heavily because of the pandemic. Shops were closed again a month ago. Traders who just want to keep a watch on their shops or are just standing there are being penalised, which is not fair,” said trader division spokesperson Tej Prakash Sahu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/haridwar-gets-mounted-cavalry-squad-to-rein-in-curfew-violators-101622028913552.html
26-05-2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand slammed for Van Gujjar community living ‘below animal existence’||Uttarakhand high court has slammed the state government for “callousness” and for forcing families of Van Gujjars—a nomadic tribe of pastoralists who dwell in the Himalayan region-- to survive in conditions “below animal existence”. The court also ordered the government to provide them accommodation, food, water, medicines and get them tested for Covid-19 before letting them enter Govind Pashu Vihar National Park in Uttarkashi district.The state government reasoned before the court that letting the tribe enter the national park, may endanger the wildlife as the Sars-Cov-2 virus may spread from humans to animals.The directions were issued by the division bench of chief justice RS Chauhan and justice Alok Kumar Verma during the hearing on a public interest litigation (PIL) on Tuesday. HT has a copy of the order.The PIL was filed by a Delhi based NGO, Think Act Rise Foundation in 2019 to highlight the plight of Van Gujjars, who continue to occupy certain areas of the forests in the state. The PIL pleads for the community to be made a beneficiary under the Forest Right Act, giving them land rights and quashing petty cases against them.The HC noted that some migrating Van Gujjars were forced to live under open skies in tough conditions after they were denied entry to Govind Pashu Vihar National Park in Uttarkashi by the deputy director of the park, Komal Singh, despite holding permits.The HC order also cited the petition to note that since these families cannot sell the milk produced by their cattle due to the Covid-induced lockdown, their life was reduced to “below animal existence” for they have neither shelter, nor economic means to survive.Uttarakhand advocate general, SN Babulkar, said unless the families are declared to be Covid negative they cannot be allowed to enter the park as their migration may endanger the wildlife, the court order noted.The HC order cited photographs submitted by the petitioner to note that families are forced to live in open tents and fields under the open sky. “The photographs also show small children, and new born babies, being wrapped in blankets, and sleeping on the ground…It is, indeed, trite to state that Article 21 of the Constitution of India forbids the State from reducing the lives of its people below the animal existence,” the court order said.The court further underlined the right of every citizen to live with dignity and said, “However, it seems that the callous attitude of the deputy director of the park, and of the civil administration has forced these families to survive in conditions, which are below animal existence. Therefore, prima facie, the fundamental right to life under Article 21 of the Constitution of India is being violated by the respondents.”The HC then directed Uttarkashi district magistrate and the deputy director of the park to submit their compliance reports by June 15. The next hearing in the case will be on June 16.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/uttarakhand-slammed-for-van-gujjar-community-living-below-the-animal-existence-101622028313488.html
26-05-2021||Chandigarh||SIT of women cops to probe Bathinda rape, extortion case against ASI||The Punjab and Haryana high court has constituted a three-member special investigation team (SIT), comprising women officials led by additional director general of police (ADGP) Gurpreet Kaur Deo, to probe the role of staff of the crime investigation agency-1 (CIA) of Bathinda police in two criminal cases. Justice Arun Monga pulled up the Bathinda police administration for forming an all-men’s team to investigate charges of rape and extortion against cops by a 38-year-old woman. Also read: In a pandemic, the power of the rumourHe directed Prabhjot Kaur, the deputy superintendent of police, Budhlada, Mansa, to investigate two cases of rape and extortion by cops to absolve the woman’s son in a Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) case. Prabhjot will report to Muktsar SSP D Sudarvizhi, while Deo will head the investigation, the court ordered on Tuesday. An assistant sub-inspector (ASI), Gurvinder Singh, was caught on camera while allegedly raping a widow at her house on May 11. The woman petitioner alleged that her ailing son was implicated in a criminal case after she turned down sexual favours sought by Gurvinder, posted in CIA-1. The ASI arrested the woman’s son, who she claims is suffering from Covid-19, with 400gm of opium and booked him on May 6. After the son’s arrest, the woman was sexually assaulted by the accused cop twice. The accused cop was caught on camera in a compromising position with the woman at her house at a village under the Nathana police station area. After the matter was reported to the police, Gurvinder was arrested and dismissed from service on May 12. Bathinda senior superintendent of police (SSP) BS Virk formed a three-member SIT under SP (headquarters) SP Singh. After dismissing the ASI, Virk said that the SIT will look into allegations that the woman’s son was implicated, and money was demanded. Alleging a shoddy probe, the aggrieved woman approached the court on May 18, demanding a probe against the other seven members of the CIA-1, who allegedly planted the contraband at her home after which the police personnel demanded sexual favours. In her petition, she alleged that CIA team extorted ₹1.6 lakh on two occasions after her son’s arrest. But the Bathinda police avoided recorded statements on these charges and thus refrained from collecting evidence, she said in her petition. The court observed: “It is deplorable to see the insensitiveness with which the (Bathinda) district police officials have acted in constituting the SIT having all male members.” Accepting the plea, the court ordered the Bathinda chief judicial magistrate (CJM) to get the forensic science laboratory (FSL) report with regard to the audio and video recordings made by the petitioner from her cell phone. It shall be treated as part of the case property, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sit-of-women-cops-to-probe-bathinda-rape-extortion-case-against-asi-101622027653318.html
26-05-2021||Pune||Sutradhara’s Tales: A tale of Pune’s other village deities; steeped in tradition alive today||Have you ever noticed the boards welcoming you, or bidding you farewell, as you travel in and out of a city, district or state? These boards often mark the political boundary of the city, district, state, or even nation. Our ancestors, however, were way more creative. They used cultural and religious markers to mark the spaces through certain etymologically derived names, cultural associations, and symbolisms unique and tailor-made for each kind of cultural landscape. What’s more, these were organically evolved, accepted and used by the community. These markers had multiple layered meanings and served a primary function of being cultural spots and also proved to be utilitarian by defining these spaces. Do you know the other two village tutelary deities of Pune, besides the Kasba Ganpati we talked about in the last column? If you visit the bustling streets of Appa Balwant chowk (aka Pune’s bookshop hub), tucked in a narrow lane at the corner is dainty little temple of Tambadi Jogeshwari Devi, the “gram-devi” of Pune.Jogeshwari Devi is considered a Shakti of Shiva, consort of Bhairava and a yogini, in the folk form. The particular name Tambdi (carmine coloured) Jogeshwari is derived from the slaying of the Tamrasur demon, a commander of the Mahishasura by goddess Jogeshwari, as per the Puranas. Pune, known for its whimsical names, also has shrines of “Kali (dark) Jogeshwari” and “Piwali (yellow) Jogeshwari”, established in later times.The Ambil odha (stream) was once the physical limit to Pune’s extent. This Jogeshwari, believed to be self-emanated and protective in nature, marked the boundary of the then Pune, established by Trimbak Bendre in 1545. Even today, the main gurav priesthood of the goddess belongs to Bendre family.The temple is a medieval temple built in 1750 in brick mortar and followed the standard plan of square garbhagriha (sanctum) and sabha mandapa. The entire complex was much larger once, but it was divided into half due to a road widening and one of the Deepamalas was removed. Thus, the other votive Deepmala of the temple survives on the other side of road. It is believed that the Deepamalas were erected when Jijabai and Shivaji started a new beginning for Pune through a symbolic ploughing of land with a golden plough. The main idol of Tambdi Jogeshwari was heavily covered in vermilion until recently, then it came off to reveal the original sculpture. The four-armed standing sculpture of Jogeshwari, with trishula (trident), skull (panpatra), and damru as attributes, symbolises a fierce form.During the freedom movement, Prabhat pheri - the morning marches - would commence from the temple of Jogeshwari. Marriage invitations are extended to Tambdi Jogeshwari regularly and devotees particularly flock o the temple during the Navratri Dasserah festival and Ganeshotsav. The third Gram devata of Pune, the most obscure and as old as other two, is Nava (new, ironically!) Kalbhairava in Kasba peth. There existed an older - Juna Kalbhairava temple near Kumbharwada, which was later demolished during the building of the Dhakta Sheikh Salla Dargah. Today, the management of the old Kalbhairav temple is with the Devarkar family.A very common explanatory myth employed to explain shifting or creation of new religious cult site applies here and relates to the Ladkat family, original settlers of Pune from the Mali area. A particular member from the Ladkat family used to visit the old Bhairoba at Kumbharwada from his residence at Janaicha Thal in Bhavani peth. As he grew older it proved difficult to continue this ritual. Hence, Bhairoba came to him in a dream and suggested that God will follow behind him and relocate somewhere near the Ladkat residence to make it easy for him. The only condition was that Ladkat should not look behind. Ladkat could not control his excitement and turned his back to check. The Bhairoba disappeared on the spot, near the Kasba peth boundary area. Ladkat then dug the area to find the idol of Kal Bhairav which was subsequently established and consecrated at the new spot - God and temple - Nava Kalbhiarav.. The management of the temple has continued to be with Ladkat family. The location of Navin Kalbhairav temple is quite strategic. It is placed near what once was the city wall. It is strategically placed at the crossroads of small lanes, full of old wadas and meandering lanes. The temple itself is renovated, but still bears the mark of old architecture in the domical garbhagriha with facets in corners. The chain hung in the garbhagriha is known to relieve people of chromic body aches and back pains. Though monuments undergo changes, traditions die hard. Pune exhibits its rural origins in the practice of Bagad, prevalent in eastern Maharashtra even today. Just outside the Kalbhairav temple is a tall wooden pole which is used to erect the “Bagad” and is under worship. “Bagad” is a traditional ritual in which devotees fulfil their vows to the local deity by whirling themselves on a wooden pole. Sometimes the devotees pierce and hang from hooks. This takes place sometime around the Rangpanchami festival or Chaitra poornima. A similar Bagad ritual takes place in the older village of Hinjewadi, the IT township on outskirts of Pune. Annually, on Chaitra poornima, the procession takes the palkhi of Bhairavnath to the Bolhai temple near the Zilla Parishad. Bolhai devi is the sister of Kalbhairavnath whom he pays annual visits to and offers gifts. Road widening has pushed the Jogeshwar temple aside and the Metro threatens the Nava Kalbhairav, but the village deities still continue to guard the interests of Pune’s inhabitants as they firmly stand on their humble grounds. Saili Palande-Datar is an indologist, environmentalist, history researcher and farmer. She can be reached @ sailikdatar@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/sutradharas-tales-a-tale-of-pune-s-other-village-deities-steeped-in-tradition-alive-today-101622025913990.html
26-05-2021||Lucknow||Covid-19 strategy working well, vaccination for 18+ in all districts soon: Adityanath||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath said on Wednesday that the three-pronged strategy of the state government against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) has been proving effective and the number of cases in the state has come down. In his directives to the ‘Team 9’, group of nine officials tasked with handling the coronavirus pandemic in the state, Adityanath said the ‘Test, Trace and Treat’ mantra has been working well.“In comparison to the peak condition of April 30, the number of patients has dropped to just 20 percent within 26 days. The recovery rate of the state is getting better every day and has now reached 95.1%. There have been 3371 cases of Covid infection in the last 24 hours, while 10,540 people have regained health and were discharged during the same period,” he added.Also read | How Uttar Pradesh turned the tide in fight against Covid-19Adityanath also said that the Covid-19 vaccination drive for people between 18 and 44 years of age would begin in all 75 districts of the state from next month. “Vaccination in the age group of 18 to 44 is progressing rapidly. Yesterday, 147,048 people received vaccine cover. Thus, 13,61,550 people in this age group have received vaccine cover so far. From June 1, the program of Covid vaccination of people in the age group of 18 to 44 is being started in all 75 districts,” the chief minister said. He also said that parents should be vaccinated on priority amid rising concerns that children would be primarily affected during the third wave of the coronavirus disease.The chief minister emphasised the need to strengthen the health and medical system in the state and also announced that a special team and a nodal officer should be created to monitor the construction of new public health centres (PHC) and community health centres (CHC). He also said that a complete database of all medical facilities and a mobile application to divulge this information to the public should be developed.Talking about the rising cases of mucormycosis or black fungus in the state, Adityanath said that experts from the Sanjay Gandhi Postgraduate Institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGI) will monitor the treatment of patients at hospitals across various districts and cities. The CM also asked the officials to increase surveillance to effectively tackle the encephalitis cases and said that he would personally inspect districts affected by the disease on Wednesday and Thursday.Uttar Pradesh on Tuesday reported 3957 new Covid-19 cases and 163 fatalities and so far, 1,677,508 people have tested positive and 19,519 patients have lost their lives in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/covid19-strategy-working-well-vaccination-for-18-in-all-districts-soon-uttar-pradesh-chief-minister-yogi-adityanath-101622024788524.html
26-05-2021||Bhopal||Marriages conducted secretly despite a ban in lockdown, declared illegal in MP||Weddings held secretly in the month of May during the lockdown restrictions in some Madhya Pradesh districts have been declared illegal and such couples will not be issued marriage certificates, said an official.The MP government had banned marriages in May to contain the spread of Covid 19, however, the ban was violated widely with at least 130 marriage ceremonies prevented and at least 30 persons getting booked in the past 25 days, said a home department official.A few district collectors have now issued a separate order to declare such marriages illegal and asked the registrar office not to issue any certificates for nuptials tied in May, failing which, even officials may be booked under section 188 for disobedience to order duly promulgated by a public servant under the Indian Penal Code (IPC), says the order.After a ban on marriages in MP, many weddings were shifted to the neighbouring state of Uttar Pradesh but this order will not impact such marriages conducted in other states, the official added.Ujjain district collector Ashish Singh said, “In the absence of any provision of punishment, people are conducting marriages secretly. Now, all the marriages, which were conducted secretly, will be declared illegal. Action will be taken against the couple, family members and even priests.”Gwalior collector KV Singh said though the district administration had not issued a separate order in this regard, yet no marriages will be validated with a certificate in May. “The decision was taken after 20% of villagers in Dabra were infected in a marriage. The motive was not to create trouble for people but to contain the spread,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/marriages-conducted-secretly-despite-a-ban-in-lockdown-declared-illegal-in-mp-101622025133562.html
26-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi has 620 cases of ‘black fungus’, facing shortage of drugs, says Kejriwal||Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday said there is a severe shortage of the medicine needed to treat at least 620 people undergoing treatment for mucormycosis, or black fungus, in Delhi’s hospitals.He added Delhi is receiving about 400 vials of anti-fungal amphotericin B needed to treat the fungal infection from the central quota even as it needs nearly 4,000 vials daily. “This is delaying the treatment in patients,” he said.Black fungus has emerged as a potentially life-threatening Covid-19 complication that prompted the Centre last week to ask states to declare the disease notifiable under the Epidemic Diseases Act. A rare disease, experts and doctors say thousands have now contracted it because of an overuse of steroids or due to suppression of their immune system, which is often a fallout of attempts to stop the life-threatening immune overreaction due to Covid-19.Also Read: Scientifically Speaking | Decoding the evolution of coronavirusesThe actual spread of the disease is likely wider, and authorities in several states have sounded the alarm on the disease. It mainly impacts the mouth, nose, eye and then spreads to the brain. There have been cases of infection in the lungs as well as the gastrointestinal tract. The treatment involves surgically removing the dead tissues caused by the fungus, which results in loss of the eyes and facial disfigurement in some.Black fungus cases went up 2.5 times last year between September and December across 16 centres in the country, according to Dr Arunaloke Chakrabarti, head of the department of microbiology at Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education & Research, Chandigarh. He is part of the Fungal Infection Study Forum and is one of the members, who drafted the government advisory on mucormycosis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-has-620-cases-of-black-fungus-facing-shortage-of-drugs-says-kejriwal-101622024174102.html
26-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi reports 1,491 new Covid-19 cases as positivity rate falls below 2%, 130 more deaths recorded||Delhi's daily tally of the Covid-19 disease continued to decline as 1,491 new cases were registered in the last 24 hours, taking the caseload to 1,421,477, according to the health department's bulletin on Wednesday. Nearly 4,000 people (3,952 to be exact) recovered and 130 more succumbed to the viral disease in the national capital, and the total recoveries and death toll currently stand at 1,378,634 and 23,695 respectively, according to the bulletin.The active cases have come down to 19,148 and the positivity rate also dropped to 1.93%. Wednesday's case count in Delhi is 77 more than that of Tuesday's when 1,568 people tested positive for the viral disease. The deaths on Wednesday are 26 less than that of Tuesday's (156 deaths).Also Read| Fall in Covid-19 cases, positivity rate in Delhi a result of lockdown: JainA total of 77,103 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours of which 53,542 are RT-PCR/CBNAAT/TrueNat tests while the remaining 23,561 are rapid antigen tests, the health department's bulletin said. A little over 10,000 (10,079) Covid-19 patients continue to remain under home isolation in Delhi while the containment zones have also come down to 36,873.Nearly 44,000 beneficiaries were vaccinated against the Covid-19 disease in the last 24 hours, taking the cumulative vaccination figures to 5,185,045. Delhi is currently facing a crunch in the supplies of vaccine doses and the inoculation for beneficiaries between 18-44 years has been suspended by the Aam-Aadmi Party led government.Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Wednesday that doses for all young beneficiaries in Delhi are exhausted and the vaccination centres for them have been closed from the last four days.Also Read| ‘More lives would’ve been saved if..’: Kejriwal slams Centre on vaccine exportsAddressing a press conference, Kejriwal said, "Covaxin doses meant for senior citizens have also run out of supplies. We have written to the Centre but haven't received the doses yet.Not just in Delhi, several vaccination centres are closed across India. Amid the ongoing Covid-19 crisis, we should have opened more centres. It is not a good thing that existing centres were closed down."Pointing out that the second wave of the Covid pandemic proved to be extremely fatal, the Delhi chief minister said the impact of this wave could have been reduced and more lives could have been saved if people were vaccinated on time.Kejriwal also launched an indirect attack on the Centre over vaccine doses imported to other countries by saying, "Vaccination in India was delayed by six months. Six months ago, several countries started inoculating their citizens at a mass level. We (India) committed a big mistake. Rather than vaccinating our own people, we were sending doses to othercountries."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-reports-1-491-new-covid-19-cases-as-positivity-rate-falls-below-2-101622023438368.html
26-05-2021||Delhi||Fall in Covid-19 cases, positivity rate in Delhi a result of lockdown: Health minister Satyendar Jain||Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain said on Wednesday the lockdown clamped in the national capital helped arrest the daily cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and also lead to the dip in positivity rate. The lockdown was first imposed by the Delhi government on April 19, when daily Covid-19 cases hovered from 20,000-29,000. It has been extended multiple times and is currently in place till May 31.Speaking to reporters on Wednesday, Jain said, “Delhi saw 1568 Covid-19 cases yesterday and the positivity rate was at 2.14%. At one period of time, the positivity surged to 36%. But it has been declining since and has come to around 2%. The fall in cases and the positivity rate can be directly attributed to the lockdown.”Also Read| Sputnik V-makers have agreed to supply vaccine to Delhi: KejriwalJain added there are more beds available in hospitals at present and one-third of Intensive Care Unit (ICU) beds are also vacant. “It seems that the Covid-19 situation is in control in Delhi,” the health minister told reporters.In April, amid a massive surge in cases and death, the entire health infrastructure of Delhi witnessed a near collapse as hospitals grappled with a severe shortage of medical oxygen and they only managed to procure very limited supplies. Hospitals were also unable to accommodate the increasing number of patients on time. Many serious Covid-19 patients lost the battle to the viral disease due to the unavailability of beds and the life-saving gas. The Delhi government faced the ire of the public and the Centre over its unpreparedness to tackle the crisis.Also Read| Centre supplies nearly 30,000 additional vials of mucormycosis drug to statesEven though the overall Covid situation is improving at present, Delhi is currently battling the recent surge in cases of mucormycosis or black fungus. Delhi health minister Jain said on Wednesday that around 600 cases of the fungal disease have been reported till now. “There were 200 cases of mucormysosis on May 23. In total, there are 600 cases which include patients from outside as well. However, on May 24 and May 25, the cases have remained below the 100-mark,” Jain said, adding there is a shortage of Amphotericin-B injections and urged the central government to increase its supply.The Aam-Aadmi Party-led government has designated three hospitals for treating patients of mucormysosis. However, Jain pointed out during Wednesday’s briefing that private hospitals in the national capital are also treating cases of black fungus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/fall-in-covid-19-cases-positivity-rate-in-delhi-a-result-of-lockdownjain-101622022892348.html
26-05-2021||Bangalore||103-year-old freedom fighter Doreswamy passes away in Bengaluru||Freedom fighter and activist Harohalli Srinivasaiah Doreswamy, 103, died in Bengaluru on Wednesday, days after recovering from Covid-19 this month. He was readmitted to a Bengaluru hospital before his death.“He passed away this [Wednesday] afternoon,” said a close aide to Doreswamy.A former schoolteacher, Doreswamy was born on April 10, 1918, in Harohalli in the erstwhile princely state of Mysore.“It is very sad to hear the news that senior freedom fighters, Gandhian, journalist, social worker, and the voice of the people, HS Doreswamy, has passed away. Praying for goodness to their soul, I ask that God grant their families the power to bear the pain,” Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa tweeted.Also Read | Karnataka sees a dip in daily new cases, active caseload falls below 480,000Doreswamy actively participated in the protests against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act and National Register of Citizens in Bengaluru in 2019-20.“HS Doreswamy, who parted from all of us, was our self conscience. He condemned when he saw wrong, supported when he saw right and guided us. He was an inspiration from a young age, came to the streets when he saw injustice and was an inspiration to all of us,” tweeted former Karnataka chief minister Siddaramaiah.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/103yearold-freedom-fighter-doreswamy-passes-away-in-bengaluru-101622022913567.html
26-05-2021||Chandigarh||Six months on, farmers in Punjab, Haryana hold black flag protest||Farmers in Punjab and Haryana put up black flags on their houses on Wednesday, joining a black day call given by protesting farmer unions to mark six months of their agitation at Delhi borders against the Centre’s three farm laws. Opposition parties, including the Congress, the Shiromani Akali Dal and the Aam Aadmi Party, have extended support to the Samyukt Kisan Morcha’s call of observing the day as a black day. The morcha is an umbrella body of protesting unions. Also read: Black Day: Farmers mark 6 months of stir, Tikait says protest will be peacefulShiromani Akali Dal chief Sukhbir Singh Badal raised a black flag at his house in Badal village in Muktsar district and urged the Centre to accept the demand of protesting farmers. INLD general secretary Abhay Singh Chautala followed suit at his Teja Khera farmhouse in neighbouring Sirsa district in Haryana. Former Haryana chief minister and Congress leader Bhupinder Singh Hooda had on Tuesday urged the Centre to restart the dialogue with protesting farmers. Effigies burnt at protest sites At some places in Punjab, farmers took out a protest march, raising slogans against the Centre and burning its effigy. Carrying black flags, hundreds of protesters burnt effigies of the central government. BKU (Ugrahan) Sangrur block chief Gobinder Singh asked farmers to join the three-day dharna in Patiala against the Punjab government from May 28. Farmers have been camping at Delhi’s borders, demanding that the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, Farmers’ (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020, be rolled back and a new law made to guarantee minimum support price for crops. However, the government has maintained the laws are pro-farmer. Several rounds of talks between farmers and the government have failed to break the deadlock over the three laws. A government panel had met farmer leaders on January 22. There have been no talks between the two sides since January 26 when the farmers’ tractor rally in the national capital turned violent. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/six-months-on-farmers-in-punjab-haryana-hold-black-flag-protest-101622022253362.html
26-05-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan to audit Covid-19 deaths following allegations of under reporting||The Rajasthan government has ordered an audit of deaths caused by Covid-19 amid opposition allegations that the official death toll discounted several unreported deaths in the rural areas of the state.Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot, said, “We are worried about the lives of people, not figures. Our government is fighting the war against Corona with the cooperation of all sections of the society [and] with complete transparency,” he said.The Gehlot government has also indicated the audit will also help in targeted welfare measures for families that have lost earning members due to Covid-19, which has profoundly impacted people’s mental, social and economic conditions.According to the health department, 7,911 people have succumbed to Covid-19 in Rajasthan till date. However, a news daily claimed its survey listed 14,482 deaths in the state’s 25 rural districts between April 1 and May 20 this year alone, while the government’s record puts the number of deaths in this period to 3,918. Rajasthan has 33 districts in all.While the Bharatiaya Janata Party (BJP) leaders alleged that the state government was hiding the actual number of Covid-19 deaths in Rajasthan, health minister Raghu Sharma ruled it out claiming every Covid-19 related death was being recorded meticulously in Covid hospitals.“There is no possibility of any kind of irregularity. Strict instructions have been given against any manipulation at any level. We are worried about the lives of the people, not the figures,” he said, towing the chief minister’s line. He also credited the government for a relatively lower death rate in the state due to disease.Dr. Sharma said that the highest Covid death rate was seen in the two months of April and May this year when a total of 5,093 patients succumbed to the disease. In the previous 13 months, the state registered only 2,818 Covid-related deaths including 1,632 deaths between August, September, October and November 2020 and 1,186 deaths in the remaining 9 months.Dr. Sharma said that it was natural for a big state like Rajasthan, with a population of about 8 crores, to register many deaths owing to diseases, accidents, age and other reasons apart from Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-orders-audit-of-covid-19-deaths-following-allegations-of-under-reporting-101622021953410.html
26-05-2021||Lucknow||How young techies rose to the Covid challenges!||The second wave of Covid-19 pandemic has thrown lives out of gear. During the peak of the wave, many out there struggled for life-saving medicines, hospital admission and oxygen. Several Lucknowites and techies from various regions extended a helping hand and came up with bots, websites and handles to provide verified information that helped people in need. We feature some of them who rose to the occasion and did their bit for the society. Lucknowite and software engineer Bhavya Chandra with her flat-mate Noopur Jain came up with a bot that works with Telegram chat app @Info_covid_lko_bot. “Instead of website we came up with bot as nowadays people are more chat friendly. We started with Lucknow but now it has presence throughout the country with help of group of volunteers with updated verified information about beds, medicines, oxygen and other requirements. Users too can update information on bot and people have made good use of it during the tough times,” informed the young engineer from Singapore. IIM-Lucknow final year student Amrita Singh developed a website Compiledcovidresources which contains information of initiatives by government, private and social organisations that can be of help to Covid-19 patients. “Since I study in Lucknow but currently based in Delhi, so I thought to pool of information of both cities and updated it pan-India which is now available in 10 languages. During the peak, the focus was on real-time availability of testing, beds, medicines, oxygen and meals. Now, the thrust is more on relief and rehabilitation — like adoption of kids who have orphaned, help to widows, financial aid to families,” said Amrita who ensures every information is verified and update with proper links. Lucknow-resident Shrishti Sahu, couldn’t find hospital admission in the city and had to travel all the way to Delhi to get proper treatment, developed verified Covid leads. “Siddhant Nahta from Mumbai joined hand us along with our 200 volunteers we add, and update verified as well as trustworthy leads. Resources available on the platform are for oxygen, ICU beds, medicine, nursing/doctor consults and food delivery service,” she said. Not just them but several other social media groups have come as saviours when Covid patients and their family members needed them most. “I am far from my city and country but through technology and applying my knowledge this is little what I can do for my people. Who knows what information can save someone’s life,” added Bhavya.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/how-young-techies-rose-to-the-covid-challenges-101622019433792.html
26-05-2021||Kolkata||Storm surge triggered by Yaas and spring tide inflict heavy damage in Bengal||The storm surge triggered by Cyclone Yaas, which coincided with the perigean spring tide of Wednesday’s full moon, inflicted heavy damage in the coastal and deltaic areas of West Bengal, chief minister Mamata Banerjee said on Wednesday as she monitored the situation from a control room set up the state secretariat.The state government has evacuated around 1.5 million people to cyclone and relief shelters. More people were being evacuated till reports last came in as sea and river water gushed into the low-lying areas, flooding villages.“Because of the cyclone and the spring tide, the storm surge has caused extensive damage in the state. Several embankments have been breached. Water has gushed into many places at Digha, Shankharpur, Sagar, and Gosaba. Low lying areas have been flooded,” said Banerjee.Also Read | Cyclone Yaas pounds Odisha-Bengal coasts, may move to Jharkhand by midnightStorm surge is the abnormal rise in seawater level during a cyclone and can lead to flooding in low-lying areas.Around 70km of embankment has been damaged in the coastal district of East Midnapore district, which shares a border with Odisha. In South 24 Parganas, reports of embankment breaches have been reported from at least 15 places.At least 20,000 houses have been already damaged, according to early estimates provided by the state government.Banerjee urged the people, who were lodged in the cyclone and relief shelters, not to return to their houses as the spring tide phase would continue till Thursday.According to estimates given by the Kolkata Port Trust, the water levels would reach their peak around Thursday morning.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) warned on Tuesday that the storm surge, triggered by Cyclone Yaas and the perigean spring tide, could reach up to 4 metres over and above the astronomical tide (spring tide).“The maximum damage would be caused by the storm surge this time. On May 26, when the cyclone hits, there is also the spring tide. The damage would be the maximum in the coastal districts of East Midnapore and South 24 Parganas,” Sanjib Banerjee, deputy director-general of IMD’s regional office in Kolkata, said on Tuesday.Experts said the water level in the sea rises at least a metre high during a spring tide, which occurs during a full moon, over a normal high tide that comes every day. The water level is highest during the perigean spring tide when the moon is closest to the earth.“The storm surge triggered by the cyclone at East Midnapore district would be 2m–4m, while in South 24 Parganas it would be 1m–2m. This is over and above the astronomical tide (spring tide),” said Banerjee.For storm surge, the IMD had issued a red warning, the highest level of warning that calls for taking action, for the East Midnapore district. For South 24 Parganas district an orange warning (officials to remain prepared) had been issued.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/storm-surge-triggered-by-yaas-and-spring-tide-inflicts-heavy-damage-in-bengal-101622017213358.html
26-05-2021||Delhi||Sputnik V-makers have agreed to supply vaccine to Delhi: Kejriwal||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday said the manufacturers of Sputnik V have agreed to supply the Russian anti-Covid vaccine to Delhi but its quantity is yet to be decided.He also said that there were around 620 cases of black fungus or mucormycosis in the city, but there is a shortage of Amphotericin-B injections used in its treatment."Talks with the makers of Sputnik V are on. They will give us vaccine, but the quantity is yet to be decided. Our officials and the representatives of the vaccine manufacturers met on Tuesday, too," the CM told reporters.Speaking at the launch of Delhi's first drive-through vaccination centre at Vegas Mall in Dwarka, he also said that vaccines made by Moderna and Pfizer are both suitable for children and the Central government should procure these jabs to vaccinate kids.He also said that a government-run drive-through vaccination centre will be launched at Chhatrasal on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/sputnik-v-makers-have-agreed-to-supply-vaccine-to-delhi-kejriwal-101622014477309.html
26-05-2021||Delhi||Wrestler murder: 4 more associates of Sushil Kumar arrested in Delhi||Four associates of wrestler Sushil Kumar were arrested from outer Delhi late on Tuesday in connection with the alleged murder of 23-year-old wrestler Sagar Dhankad, police said.All four are from Haryana and are members of Kala Asauda-Neeraj Bawana gang. They have been identified as Bhupender alias Bhupi,38, Mohit alias Bholi,22, Gulab aka Pehalwan,24, and Manjeet alias Chunni Lal,29. Mohit and Gulab belong to Asauda village in Haryana’s Jhajjar that is also the native village of Kala, their gang leader. They were allegedly present at Chhatrasal stadium in north-west Delhi where Dhankad was beaten to death in a brawl involving two groups, one of which, according to the police, was led by Kumar. Police said that non-bailable warrants were pending against the four men who have disclosed the entire conspiracy and sequence of the events leading to Dhankad’s death.Also Read | Sushil back at his theatre of dreams, this time to recreate an alleged killingTheir custody may soon be handed over to the team investigating Dhankad’s murder case which already has the custody of Kumar and his associate, Ajay Sherawat.Deputy commissioner of police (Rohini) Pranav Tayal said that on Tuesday, the special staff team of Rohini district received information that four men, involved and wanted in the murder of wrestler Sagar Dhankad, would be coming to Ghewra village to meet an associate named Kala.“The team laid a trap near Ghewra railway crossing and the four suspects were caught after their identification through the informer. They are members of a gang led by gangsters Rajeev alias Kala Asauda and Neeraj Bawana,”said police.During interrogation, DCP Tayal said, the four men disclosed that on the intervening night of May 4 and 5, they had gone to Chhatrasal stadium. They reached there around midnight in two vehicles. “They were actively involved in the crime. On hearing police sirens, they fled the stadium, leaving behind their vehicles and weapons. The four have narrated the sequence of events leading to Dhankad’s death and details of the other persons involved in his murder,” the DCP added.Police said that while Bhupender is involved in nine cases of kidnapping, murder, robbery, cheating, rioting and other serious crimes, Mohit and Manjeet have five and four cases against them respectively. Gulab has previously been involved in two cases, they said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/wrestler-murder-4-more-associates-of-sushil-kumar-arrested-in-delhi-101622014033145.html
26-05-2021||Patna||2 Bengal migrant workers killed, 14 injured in road accident in Bihar||At least two migrant labourers were killed and 14 others were injured in a road accident in Bihar’s Gopalganj district in the early hours of Wednesday. The accident brought the traffic between Gorakhpur and Gopalganj to a halt for about two hours, said police.A minibus carrying migrant workers collided with a truck coming from the opposite direction on National Highway-27 at Pyarepur village, falling under Barauli police station at around 3am, said the police.Police said the labourers were heading home from Punjab to destinations in West Bengal after harvesting the wheat crop. The minibus was hit by the truck at a high speed, killing two workers on the spot. The impact left the minibus mangled and the bodies mutilated.“Fourteen others including the driver, who sustained injuries in the accident, were immediately shifted to sadar hospital for treatment. All of them hailed from West Bengal,” said Gopalganj superintendent of police (SP) Anand Kumar. The Barauli police registered a case, and the bodies were shifted to Sadar hospital for post-mortem.Police said their preliminary investigation suggested that the driver of the minibus lost control and the vehicle first crashed against the road median and then rolled to the other side of the road, hitting the speeding lorry, the official said.Bihar excise and prohibition minister Sunil Kumar, who also hails from Gopalganj district, expressed shock at the deaths and asked the district authorities to ensure best possible treatment to the injured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/2-bengal-migrant-workers-killed-14-injured-in-road-accident-in-bihar-101622013673137.html
26-05-2021||Delhi||Sushil Kumar’s 4 associates arrested in wrestler murder case||The Delhi Police have arrested four associates of two-time Olympic medallist Sushil Kumar, who were involved in the alleged property dispute case that led to the death of a 23-year-old wrestler in the city’s Chhatrasal Stadium, news agency PTI reported on Wednesday. Officials said that the accused are active members of the Kala Asauda and Neeraj Bawana gangs and were arrested from Delhi's Kanjhawala area on Tuesday night, according to PTI.The accused have been identified as Bhupender (38), Mohit (22), Gulab (24), residents of Haryana's Jhajjar district and Manjeet (29) from Rohtak district, the news agency cited police officials as saying. They also said that non-bailable warrants were also issued against the four men in connection with the case.Wrestler Sagar Rana died and two of his friends were injured after they were allegedly assaulted by Kumar and others inside the stadium. The incident took place late on May 4 over a dispute related to a property located in Delhi's Model Town.Deputy commissioner of police (Rohini) Pranav Tayal said they received a tip-off that four people belonging to the Kala Asauda and Neeraj Bawana gangs involved in the case were coming to Ghewra village to meet their associate Kala. "Acting upon the information, our team laid a trap near Ghewra railway crossing and apprehended all the four persons after their identification through a secret informer," Tayal said, according to PTI.All the four accused narrated the sequence of events and details of others involved in the crime. They also said that they left their vehicles and weapons at the spot of the crime, Tayal said.Kumar and his associate Ajay were arrested on Sunday from outer Delhi's Mundka area and the case was then transferred to the Crime Branch.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/sushil-kumar-s-4-associates-arrested-in-wrestler-murder-case-101622008227265.html
26-05-2021||Dehradun||Centre finally lets Uttarakhand use locally made oxygen to meet state quota||The Centre has finally allowed Uttarakhand to use medical oxygen generated in the state for treatment of Covid-19 patients and also raised its oxygen quota following the high court’s intervention after several requests by the state government remained unanswered, a senior state official announced on Tuesday evening. Uttarakhand’s oxygen quota has been raised from 183 metric tonnes to 200 MT and the hill state is now under no obligation to procure oxygen from Jharkhand and West Bengal as was mandated by the Centre, said Amit Negi, secretary state health department.Uttarakhand was earlier granted a quota of 183 metric tonnes (MT) of oxygen, including 60 MT to be imported daily from Jamshedpur and Durgapur in Jharkhand and West Bengal, respectively. Uttarakhand had been requesting the Centre to let it meet its oxygen requirement from its own generation capacity, which easily exceeds the state’s quota. Negi said the state had set up 11 oxygen generation plants so far and more were being set up at district and sub-district levels. Earlier this month, the state government told high court that it had written to the Centre requesting an increase in oxygen quota, medical equipment such as oxygen concentrators, cylinders, and pressure swing adsorption plants, apart from permission to use medical oxygen generated locally, since its procurement from Jharkhand and Bengal, as per the existing quota arrangement, posed logistical challenges in maintaining its constant supply to far flung areas. The court asked the Centre to decide on the matter within a week, while expressing surprise at the Centre’s alleged “studied silence” over the issues and added that it was the Centre’s constitutional duty to come to the aid of state governments.Uttarakhand reported 2,756 fresh Covid cases on Tuesday, taking the state’s infection tally to 318,346. It also reported deaths of 80 Covid patients, taking the death toll in the state to 6,020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/centre-finally-lets-uttarakhand-use-locally-made-oxygen-to-meet-state-quota-101622008093061.html
26-05-2021||Ranchi||Cyclone Yaas: Thousands evacuated from low-lying places in Jharkhand||Thousands of people living in low-lying areas and makeshift houses in Jharkhand’s East Singhbhum and West Singhbhum districts were evacuated to safer places ahead of Cyclone Yaas’s landfall in neighbouring Odisha and West Bengal. The districts are among the places in Jharkhand where the highest -- red alert -- has been sounded in view of the cyclone. An orange alert has been issued for Ranchi, Khunti and Gumla. The districts are likely to experience very heavy to extreme rainfall due to the impact of the cyclone.East Singhbhum deputy commissioner Suraj Kumar said they began evacuating people from Tuesday evening. “Till now, we have evacuated more than 2,500 people from low lying and vulnerable areas and people who are living in thatched houses.” He said they have set up 241 shelter houses. Kumar added two National Disaster Response Force teams have also been deputed.Click here for Cyclone Yaas LIVE UpdatesAdditional collector (West Singhbhum) Ejaz Anwar said they have evacuated over 1,000 people and set up around 200 evacuation centres where food and drinking water facilities have been made available.At least 13 trains that depart or pass through the Ranchi railway station have been cancelled in view of the cyclone.Officials said chief minister Hemant Soren has directed alternative arrangements of electricity for hospitals and ensuring oxygen back up so that Covid patients do not suffer due to the cyclone.Most parts of Jharkhand received light to moderate rainfall since Wednesday morning. The rainfall was expected to intensify.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/cyclone-yaas-thousands-evacuated-from-low-lying-places-in-jharkhand-101622005993632.html
26-05-2021||Chandigarh||Telemedicine gets good response in Himachal during pandemic||In view of the Covid-19 lockdown, the telemedicine service being provided by the state health department is evoking a good response with people seeking medical advice via the virtual mode. Himachal Pradesh has emerged among the top three states to provide teleconsultations of eSanjeevani OPD, Dr Nipun Jindal, the state director of the National Health Mission, said on Wednesday. Also read: 2.08 lakh new Covid-19 cases reported in 24 hours, declining trend maintainedThese services assume significance given the spike in Covid-19 infections in the state and the restriction on movement to curb its spread. Himachal has seen 83,695 new Covid-19 infections in May so far. Dr Jindal said 1,381 consultations were held through e-Sanjeevani OPD in May. Kangra performed the best in the state by conducting 384 consultations, followed by 230 in Shimla, 159 in Hamirpur, 156 in Solan and 152 in Mandi. He said that the recently added AIIMS Bilaspur, e-Sanjeevani OPD service attended to 60 patients on their opening day on May 24. Since its launch in April last year, Dr Jindal said, 80,062 consultations have been done. The highest 18,470 consultations have been done in Solan, followed by 14,888 in Mandi, 13,524 in Kangra, 7,805 in Chamba and 7,213 in Shimla. He said 36,702 consultations have been done for non-specialist treatments, 16,001 for medical treatments, 7,914 for paediatrics, 7,586 for obstetrics and gynaecology and 4,907 for psychiatry. Medical officers at primary health centres have supported health and wellness centres for 23,811 consultations. The services are being provided by specialist hubs at Indira Gandhi Medical College, Shimla; Dr Rajendra Prasad Government Medical College, Tanda; and Shri Lal Bahadur Shastri Government Medical College, Nerchowk. One more specialist hub will be set up at Dr Radhakrishnan Government Medical College, Hamirpur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/telemedicine-gets-good-response-in-himachal-during-pandemic-101622005633945.html
26-05-2021||Kolkata||Cyclone Yaas: Calcutta HC suspends all judicial proceedings||The Calcutta high court, which was supposed to hear the bail plea of the four politicians accused in the 2016 Narada sting operation case, suspended all judicial proceedings on Wednesday because of Cyclone Yaas. “Keeping in view the report of the meteorological department on cyclone Yaas, which is likely to cause heavy damage and widespread rainfall, as a precautionary measure, all electronic gadgets and devices for e-connectivity of the court shall remain shut,” the court stated in a notice. The notice stated that all judicial proceedings have been suspended. The court was to hear the matter virtually. A five-judge bench headed by acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal was scheduled to take up the bail plea of the four political leaders -- two Cabinet ministers, a legislator and a former mayor. Click here for Cyclone Yaas LIVE Updates“The government has intimated the Registrar General that it might not be possible for it to provide transport facilities to the employees of this court on May 26 and May 27,” the notice stated. The CBI had, on May 17, arrested the leaders in connection with the 2016 Narada sting operation case. Though a special CBI court granted them interim bail, the high court had stayed it and sent them to judicial custody. A division bench of the Calcutta high court put the leaders under house arrest on May 21 and constituted a larger five-judge bench to hear the bail plea. Meanwhile, this Monday, the CBI moved the Supreme Court against the high court order of putting the leaders under house arrest. On Tuesday, however, the agency withdrew its petition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/cyclone-yaas-calcutta-hc-suspends-all-judicial-proceedings-101622005392802.html
26-05-2021||Lucknow||Lucknow doctor shot by unknown assailants, remains critical||A Lucknow doctor was shot near his house in Matiyari locality late Tuesday night by unknown SUV borne assailants and was reported to be in a critical condition by doctors treating him at the trauma centre of King George Medical University in the city.Dr Sandeep Jaiswal, a resident of Balajipuram colony in Matiyari, runs a private hospital at Sarvodaya Nagar in the city. He was attacked around midnight when driving back home. The assailants riding in an SUV intercepted his vehicle nearly 200 meters from his house, said Lucknow deputy commissioner of police (DCP), east, Sanjiv Suman.The police officer said it appeared that the assailants first broke the windshield of the doctor’s SUV with a brick and then opened fire on him. He said the police found CCTV footage in which the assailants are seen fleeing in a white colour SUV from the spot towards Barabanki via Dewa road.The DCP said the police have recovered only one bullet shell from the crime scene, however, some locals claimed they heard at least two rounds of fire. The injured doctor was first rushed to Ram Manohar Lohia hospital by locals and was later shifted to the trauma centre.DCP Suman said primary investigation suggested that the assailants could have been following the doctor’s vehicle from his Sarvodaya Nagar trauma centre. The police are trying to recreate the crime sequence and efforts are on to trace the assailants, he added.The police initially suspected personal enmity behind the attack, but the doctor’s family has not named any suspect so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lucknow-doctor-shot-by-unknown-assailants-remains-critical-101622001913164.html
26-05-2021||Delhi||Mercury to rise, but Delhi temperature still lower than earlier years: IMD||While the mercury levels are expected to rise in the National Capital in the coming days, India Meteorological Department (IMD) scientists said that temperatures will continue to remain lower than that of previous years. Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre, said, “The temperature is not expected to cross 44 degrees Celsius (°C). Unless that happens, there will be no heatwave. As many as five western disturbances, along with the impact of the cyclone, have kept away heatwave conditions so far,” said Srivastava.This month, Delhi recorded 144mm rainfall, which was the second wettest May since 2008. Srivastava said since no further rain is predicted in the coming week, the recorded rainfall could be considered as the reading for the month.Also Read | ‘Black day’ protest to mark 6 months of stirThe Safdarjung observatory, whose readings are taken as representative of the whole city, had recorded 21.1mm of rain in May last year. The recorded rainfall for the month of May stood at 26.9mm in 2019 and 24.2mm in 2018. In the years preceding that, rainfall received stood at 40.5mm in 2017, 24.3mm in 2016, 3.1mm in 2015, and 100.2mm in 2014, as per the IMD data.Srivastava said unlike the past few years, the Capital had not recorded any heatwave days this May so far. Meteorologists declare a heatwave when the maximum temperature for a location in the plains crosses 40°C. In the hills, the threshold temperature is 30°C. A heatwave is also declared when the departure in the maximum day temperature is 4.5°C to 6.5°C from the normal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/mercury-to-rise-but-delhi-temperature-still-lower-than-earlier-yearsimd-101621998372625.html
26-05-2021||Delhi||Sushil back at his theatre of dreams, this time to recreate an alleged killing||The sprawling Chhatrasal stadium in north-west Delhi is where it all began for two-time Olympic medallist and world champion wrestler Sushil Kumar. This is where his wrestling career started in earnest, when, as a 12-year-old boy, he enrolled into the wrestling school run by Asian Games champion Satpal Singh in 1995. The stadium complex became Kumar’s home, and in a sense, he never left -- till he went on a 19-day run from the law on May 4, ending in his arrest by Delhi Police on May 23.On Tuesday, the man who had made Chhatrasal India’s most iconic wrestling destination was led back to the stadium, flanked by police and forensic teams, to recreate the alleged killing of a 23-year-old wrestler called Sagar Dhankad.The scene where Kumar had plotted his greatest triumphs on the mat was now a crime scene. For more than an hour, investigators questioned Kumar and collected evidence, based on what the police claim is footage of the crime recorded on the mobile phone of one of Kumar’s associates. Kumar’s associate Ajay Sherawat, who was with him when the wrestler was arrested, was also questioned at the scene.On the night of May 4, Dhankad, who also trained at Chhatrasal, was beaten to death in a brawl involving two groups, one of which, according to the police, was led by Kumar.Kumar and Sherawat were also taken to an apartment in Shalimar Bagh, where Dhankad and four other wrestlers lived. This, police said, is where the fight began. Kumar and his associates first assaulted Dhankad at the apartment, before driving off with him and two of his associates to Chhatrasal, police said. Police also accompanied the two to an apartment in Model Town that is believed to be the epicentre of the brawl that led to Dhankad’s murder. Dhankad used to live in the apartment, and Kumar’s wife is thought to be the owner.On Monday, the first day of Kumar’s six-day-long police custody, the wrestler was questioned for roughly four hours at a stretch.“He was asked to narrate the incident and disclose the whereabouts of his absconding associates who are also wanted for Dhankad’s murder. Who all were in touch with Kumar and were helping him and his other aides, is also being looked into,” said an officer who is part of the investigation.The police also said that Kumar became emotional during the questioning.Kumar and others have been charged with murder, attempt to murder, assault, criminal conspiracy, criminal intimidation and under other relevant sections, including that of Arms Act.The wrestler’s homeThe wrestling school at Chhatrasal, Kumar, and Indian wrestling became synonymous over the years. When he won a bronze at the 2008 Olympics, becoming only the second Indian wrestler— after Kashabha Dadasaheb Jadhav in 1952 — to win an Olympic medal, it bought immediate fame to the school. Budding wrestlers thronged the centre.“We used to have just a few trainees here, nothing out of the ordinary,” said a former Chhatrasal coach who had trained Sushil and who did not wish to be named. “After his medal, there was such a mad rush that we had to turn back hundreds of wrestlers.”Along with the fame, the complex began to improve too. Before 2008, it had just one Olympic standard wrestling mat, and one traditional earthen pit. Wrestlers lived crammed in tiny, low-roofed housing directly under the stadium’s rafters. By 2012, when Kumar won his second Olympic medal -- a silver -- becoming the only Indian to win two individual medals at the Olympics, the stadium had undergone a massive transformation to house the hundreds of wrestlers who came to learn under Kumar. Now there were plenty of Olympic mats, a state-of-the-art gym and a constant buzz in training.2012 was Chhatrasal’s year; Yogeshwar Dutt, who won a bronze at the London Games, was also a product of the school (and Kumar’s childhood training partner and friend). Another trainee from the school, Amit Dahiya, became the youngest wrestler from India to compete at the Olympics -- he made it to the quarterfinals.Many more wrestling stars followed -- a superb second line that includes current Tokyo Olympic medal favourite Bajrang Punia. In fact, along with Punia, two other Tokyo-bound wrestlers — Ravi Dahiya and Deepak Punia — also learnt their wrestling at Chhatrasal.“If there was a revolution in the sport in India, it was led by Kumar, from this very stadium,” said the coach quoted earlier. “Over here, he was simply “pehelwan” and everything happened with his knowledge. He was the driving force.”Kumar rose to become an administrator at the Delhi-government run stadium that became famous because of him.But despite the fame and the stature, or perhaps because of it, cracks also began to appear in the running of Chhatrasal’s wrestling school. By the end of 2012, Dutt and Kumar had a public fallout, resulting in Dutt leaving the centre and opening his own wrestling school. There were fallouts with coaches too, including one incident where a senior coach alleged that Kumar had assaulted him. The coach left and joined Dutt.The gangster connectionThe police are also investigating the involvement of gangster Kala Jathedi, whose name has surfaced in the brawl. According to the police Jathedi is at present based in Dubai and runs extortion rackets and other crime syndicates in north Indian states like Haryana, Delhi National Capital Region (NCR) and Rajasthan.“The probe so far has revealed that Dhankad’s friend Sonu, whom Sushil Kumar and his associates had also thrashed on May 4 inside the stadium, is closely related to Kala Jathedi and has multiple criminal cases registered against him.He is also listed as “bad character” of the area in police files. It looks like Kumar’s actions also left Jathedi outraged, which could be one reason for Kumar switching locations rapidly while he was on the run. Despite throwing away their cell phones and knowing that the use of a WiFi dongle would give away his location, Kumar may have done so to have the police reach him “sooner than Jathedi’s henchmen”,” said an officer who wished not to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/sushil-back-at-his-theatre-of-dreams-this-time-to-recreate-an-alleged-killing-101621988243178.html
26-05-2021||Delhi||Vehicles back in parking lots as crematorium rush eases||Vehicles are back in the parking lot of Ghazipur crematorium -- the space that was being used to cremate dead bodies on temporary platforms for nearly a month when a sharp spike in the number of deaths due to Covid-19 led to city crematoriums running out of space.At the Seemapuri crematorium, too, in the past one week no body has been burnt in the parking lot. Photographs of mass cremations at the two sites were widely circulated last month, as the national capital reported nearly 400 deaths every day.However, with the number of deaths declining steadily, the situation is much better at the city’s funeral grounds and graveyards. On Tuesday, Delhi recorded 156 Covid-19 deaths, which was the lowest since April 16.On May 22, when Delhi reported 182 deaths, it was the first time in 35 days that fatalities dropped below 200. On Sunday, too, it was below 200 before increasing slightly on Monday at 208, according to the Delhi government’s heath bulletin. To be sure, the daily deaths mentioned in the bulletin are not always of those who died in the previous 24 hours.A senior Delhi government health official, who asked not to be named, said, “The numbers are recalibrated and also reflect the deaths of those who died even two weeks ago. The Death Audit Committee (DAC) verifies each case to check if the person has indeed died of Covid-19 complications. Only then is his/her case added to the bulletin data. The deaths are certainly reducing. This can be seen at the crematoriums. The reason why the fatality number is still near 200 is because of the high volume of cases and deaths that happened in the last one month.”Officials managing the two crematoriums said the death numbers are coming down, and the situation has improved.Ram Karan Mishra, head priest of the Ghazipur crematorium, said that they cremated only five Covid-19 bodies on Saturday. “Last month, we performed at least 80-90 Covid funerals every day. The total body count then was 125 (both Covid and non-Covid-deaths). It was the highest in the last week of April. Since we had only 36 platforms, we had to remove vehicles and hold some funerals in the parking lot. I remember there was less than one feet distance between two pyres. You can also see some of my photographs conducting funerals with bodies placed closely.”Mishra said, over a week ago, vehicles were again allowed inside the lot. “Now, we even have time to speak to you. Last month, there was so much chaos that we had to call some of our boys from the village to help us,” he added.On April 2, the Delhi government declared the ongoing surge as the city’s fourth wave of infection. In terms of the number of cases and fatalities, it was Delhi’s deadliest by a big margin.In the first three days of May, Delhi recorded over 400 deaths every day, with the highest, 448, on May 3. Before the fourth wave, the deaths had reduced steadily over the past several months. In December, Delhi reported 1,276 deaths, followed by 292 in January 2021, and 53 in February. In March, there were 116 Covid deaths. In April, the number reached 5,120.Jitender Singh Shunty, founder of the Shaheed Bhagat Singh Sewa Dal (SBSSD), said he finally has time to speak to his family over the phone and take breaks during the day. The SBSSD manages the Old Seemapuri crematorium.“We do not use that space (parking lot) anymore. Fewer bodies of Covid victims are coming in now. We can manage it within the crematorium space. Last month, there were bodies all around and no space. We did a maximum of 118 funerals in a day last month, of which 90% were Covid-related. Now for the past 8-10 days, we are getting about 17 bodies daily, of which only 10 are that of Covid victims,” he said.HT reported on May 20, how the construction of 150 pyre platforms at Sarai Kale crematorium in south Delhi was halted as fewer bodies were being brought to the crematorium.Dr Chandrakant Lahariya, a public health expert and epidemiologist, said that though the footprint of the fourth wave may mean that Delhi is unlikely to see such a sharp spike in cases and deaths in the immediate future, it is imperative to invest in health care infrastructure and staff.“While cases have dropped, I’d prefer to wait for the positivity rate to remain below 5% for at least two weeks before we can conclusively say the fourth wave has passed,” he said.Dr Lahariya also said that while vaccines are essential in the long run, the basics of Covid-appropriate behaviour such as masking and distancing are essential to stem spikes in the short term.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/vehicles-back-in-parking-lots-as-crematorium-rush-eases-101621984290195.html
26-05-2021||Chandigarh||CBSE class 12 exams: Need to vaccinate students, teachers, Punjab minister Singla tells Centre||Punjab school education minister Vijay Inder Singla on Tuesday said the central government should provide required Covid vaccines to all states before taking a decision on Class 12 board examinations. Conveying the state government’s feedback to the Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank, Singla said there is a dire need of vaccinating the students appearing in the board examinations and teachers as their health, safety is of utmost importance. The school education minister said the examinations of only selected and essential subjects may be held in each discipline and question papers may be of lesser duration. “Due consideration may also be given to pre-board examinations and internal assessment,” he wrote in a letter to the Union minister. Raising the concerns of students and parents, Singla said the examinations should not be conducted until the safety of all stakeholders is ensured. “As there is every possibility that the students appearing in class 12 would be late in getting admission in the higher educational institutions, the Union government should issue directions to all universities and colleges to cope with the time loss of students,” he said. Singla said the higher education institutions should be asked to reduce the syllabi of the courses which would also reduce the mental pressure on students. “The students taking admissions in the higher education institutions after undergoing class 12 examinations would not be required to undergo all the semesters in the next course. For example, 8 semesters course may be reduced to 7 semesters which would help in reducing mental pressure on students and will also motivate them to perform with more confidence in higher education,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cbse-class-12-exams-need-to-vaccinate-students-teachers-punjab-minister-singla-tells-centre-101621975878113.html
26-05-2021||Chandigarh||Shun indifference, hold talks with farmers: Sukhbir Badal to Modi||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Monday requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi to hold unconditional talks with the farmers protesting against the Centre’s three contentious agriculture laws. Addressing a press conference in Chandigarh, the former Punjab deputy chief minister said the PM should shun an indifferent attitude towards the farmers and accept their demands. On the completion of six months of the farm agitation on Wednesday, Sukhbir said he had urged the party rank and file to hoist black flags to demand repeal of the laws and show solidarity with the protesting farmers. Accusing the Capt Amarinder Singh-led government in Punjab of cheating the farmers who lost their lives during the protests by not giving their families compensation and jobs, the SAD chief said the process be initiated. “At least 400 people died during the protests and most of these families are awaiting compensation,” said Sukhbir. He also urged chief minister Amarinder to speed up vaccination to fight Covid-19 and make a special allocation of ₹1,000 crore to purchase vaccines for inoculating the entire state in the next 6 months. “The CM should give a monthly pension of ₹6,000 each to all families who had lost their breadwinners to the virus. Also, provide free education to those left orphans by the pandemic and waive power and water bills for all sections of society for six-month period,” he added.Also, Sukhbir inducted Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) member and former Congress secretary Surjit Singh Tugalwal into SAD. Party leaders Bikram Singh Majithia, Sikander Singh Maluka, Daljit Singh Cheema and Lakhbir Singh Lodhinangal were also present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/shun-indifference-hold-talks-with-farmers-sukhbir-badal-to-modi-101621974913918.html
26-05-2021||Chandigarh||PUSA-44 paddy variety an environmental hazard, need to discontinue its sowing: Punjab to Centre||The Punjab government has told the Centre that the PUSA-44 variety of paddy should not to be sown in the upcoming kharif season in the state, terming it an environmental hazard as it matures late and it produces more stubble. In an action plan sent to the Union ministry for environment on the steps initiated by the state to curb stubble burning and better in-situ management of paddy residue, the Punjab Pollution Control Board and the state agriculture department have proposed that the sowing of the paddy variety which comprises 15-16% of total cultivated area should be stopped immediately. Of a total paddy area of 77 lakh acres under paddy this kharif season, the premium basmati is cultivated over 12.5 lakh acres and the PUSA-44 over 12 lakh acres. Besides, the PR-121 is sown over 17 lakh acres and PR-126 over 12-13 lakh acre land. Five to six other varieties of paddy are also sown in the state. The PUSA-44, developed by Delhi-based Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR), commonly referred to as PUSA Institute, is one of the oldest varieties grown in the state. Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) vice chancellor BS Dhillon said the variety has the longest duration (145-150 days) of maturity and leaves a shorter window for wheat sowing after its harvest. “Also, it is sown and transplanted before the onset of monsoon, leading to more consumption of groundwater. On the other hand, the PR-121 variety matures two weeks early (in 135 days) while the PR-126 ripens four weeks early in about 110-115 days,” he added. The PR varieties were developed by the PAU. “Also, the PUSA-44 leaves more crop residue, one tonne more on 1 hectare. On 1 hectare, the PUSA-44 produces 7-8 tonne stubble while the PR varieties produce 5-6 tonnes of residue. It’s (PUSA-44) shoot is also 6-7 inches taller than other varieties,” Dhillon added. Variety preferred by farmers, millers The PUSA-44 is largely grown in Sangrur, Barnala and Mansa districts of the Malwa belt due to its high yield and the fact that it is preferred by rice millers. “Its yield is 5-6 quintals higher than the PR varieties. The per acre yield is 35 quintal against 28-30 quintals of the PR varieties,” said Nek Singh, a farmer from Khokh village in Patiala district’s Nabha sub-division.“So why would a farmer lose ₹9,000-10,000 per acre?” he asked. Bal Krishan Garg, a rice miller, they prefer the PUSA variety as it has lesser quantity of broken grain when shelled.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pusa44-paddy-variety-an-environmental-hazard-need-to-discontinue-its-sowing-punjab-to-centre-101621974913035.html
26-05-2021||Chandigarh||Navjot Sidhu hoists black flag atop Patiala house to support farm stir||Congress MLA and former Punjab minister Navjot Singh Sidhu on Tuesday hoisted a black flag atop his Patiala house in support of the farmers’ protest against the central government’s new agriculture laws. Later, in a social media post, Sidhu asked every Punjabi to support farmers. The MLA, who was accompanied with his wife, said the black flag is a symbol of rejection of the farm laws. He said that Punjab government has to provide an alternate method of assured minimum support price (MSP) and procurement. Also, his daughter Rabia hoisted a flag at their Amritsar residence. His appeal to unfurl black flags met with a lukewarm response as not many people didn’t come forward in Patiala to put black flags on their residences. “We are aware that Navjot Sidhu is raising the farmers’ issues, but he should come out in the open instead of making his presence only on social media. One has to match their words with action, if they are serious about the cause”, said Thakur Singh Mann, a farmer from Sanaur. ”It is a decisive battle for farmers and we won’t follow any politician and go only with our union leaders. The development came a day after chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh appealed to farmers to not to hold a three-day protest in Patiala, saying it will lead to rise in Covid-19 cases even as he reiterated his support to their agitation against the contentious agriculture laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/navjot-sidhu-hoists-black-flag-atop-patiala-house-to-support-farm-stir-101621974912002.html
26-05-2021||Chandigarh||Jakhar urges Sonia to lead campaign against Modi govt||Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar on Tuesday urged All Indian Congress Committee (AICC) chief Sonia Gandhi and former party president Rahul Gandhi to launch a nationwide campaign to democratically oust the “insensitive” Modi government. Terming the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government as a death knell for democratic system, poor people and farmers, Jakhar said the entire state and Congress stood by farmers who were observing “Black Day” on completing six months of their historic struggle on May 26. “We salute their spirit for not only fighting to save their livelihood but also protecting democracy by vehemently opposing the unholy BJP-corporates nexus. Congress has always believed that this battle, based on principles, will last a long time, so we must plan accordingly to win it,” he said. Jakhar said it was imperative for all political parties to launch a massive campaign to democratically remove the Narendra Modi government. May 30 marks completion of the second year of the Modi government and hence this day would be the best time to launch such a national campaign, he said, describing Sonia Gandhi as the most suitable personality to lead the campaign. He urged all parties to unite and work on such a campaign.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jakhar-urges-sonia-to-lead-campaign-against-modi-govt-101621973111547.html
26-05-2021||Other||Rajindra hospital docs save black fungus patient’s eye||Doctors at the Rajindra Hospital in Patiala performed an advanced endoscopic procedure to preserve the eyes of a patient suffering from black fungus after recovery from Covid-19. The infection had spread to the eye orbit, putting the vision of the patient at risk.The doctors cleared the infection through an advanced endoscopic process and successfully preserved the patient’s eye. The surgery was carried out by a team from the ENT department, led by Dr Sanjeev Bhagat, Dr Dinesh Kumar Sharma and Dr Vishav Yadav. Professor and head of the ENT department, Dr Sanjeev Bhagat said, “Early diagnosis and early surgical intervention is required to prevent the spread of fungus to vital organs.”Dr Rajan Singla, director-principal, Government Medical College, Patiala, said, “At present, there are five patients of mucormycosis (fungal infection) under treatment at the institute. This is the first such case in which debridement has been done. A panel of experts is keeping a watch on other patients.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/rajindra-hospital-docs-save-black-fungus-patient-s-eye-101621973051660.html
26-05-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab releases ₹100 crore to clear cane growers’ dues||The cooperative sugar mills have released the balance amount of ₹100 crore due towards the cane growers for financial years 2019-20 and 2020-21. Announcing this, cooperation minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa said the amount would be credited into their accounts on Tuesday itself. The state government released the amount at its own level despite the Union government withholding the subsidy of ₹31 crore for export and ₹10 crore for buffer stock for 2019-20, he said in a statement. He said the state government was also undertaking measures to increase the income of cane growers and cooperative sugar mills had provided 16 lakh saplings of high yielding varieties of sugarcane to cane growers with the active assistance of Punjab Agricultural University, Ludhiana, and Indian Council of Agricultural Research, Karnal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-releases-rs-100-crore-to-clear-cane-growers-dues-101621972871791.html
26-05-2021||Other||Researchers document new species of African Violet in Mizoram||Researchers at the Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER) in Bhopal have documented a new species of plant belonging to the family of African Violets – a popular horticultural choice in herbariums and green-houses across the world – at Mizoram.The discovery has been recently documented in the peer-reviewed journal Systematic Botany (published by American Society for Plant Taxonomists), nearly four years after the specimen was first observed in the field.Researchers have also documented the presence of the same species in adjacent Myanmar, and said it may also exist in parts of China.The species belongs to the genus ‘Didymocarpus’, belonging to the plant family Gesneriaceae (which are more popularly known as African Violets). “Its members are distributed from Western Himalayas to Sumatra. Most of these species are narrow endemics and require specialised habitats to survive, thus acting as an indicator of pristine habitats. There are 106 currently known species of this genus, of which 26 are present in the North-Eastern states of India,” the paper’s authors said in a statement on Monday.The newly described species has been christened ‘Didymocarpus vickifunkiae’, and named after the late Dr Vicki Ann Funk, who was a renowned botanist with USA’s Smithsonian Institute. “The species is currently known to occur only in three locations in Mizoram, and can be categorised as an endangered species based on a standardised assessment devised by the International Union for Conservation of Nature,” said Dr Vinita Gowda, associate professor, department of biological sciences, IISER.“These findings continue to highlight the taxonomic endemism that we see among the flora of the north-east. Such endemism is typically seen in island habitats, where the species arrives and then the further evolutionary process becomes much localised. It’s something that we have seen in the north-eastern states but we don’t know exactly why, because tectonic histories in India are so complex,” Gowda added.These findings, which are based on in situ and ex situ studies (including molecular phylogenetic analyses with similar African Violet species from other herbariums across the world), are part of a larger study currently being undertaken by Gowda and her PhD students, to extensively document the genus Didymocarpus in India. This will help researchers to better understand the plant’s evolutionary traits needed to survive in this country (as opposed to China, Japan, African countries and South American countries, where it is also widely distributed).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/researchers-document-new-species-of-african-violet-in-mizoram-101621972571046.html
26-05-2021||Other||₹3.46 crore, docus seized from home of Aarey Colony CEO in Mumbai||The Mumbai anti-corruption bureau (ACB) has seized cash worth over ₹3.46 crore during an overnight search at the official six-bedroom bungalow of Aarey Milk Colony’s chief executive officer (CEO) Nathu Vitthal Rathod, 42, while probing a bribery case against him. ACB officers said that the cash were in denominations of ₹500 and ₹2,000. “The cash was hidden mainly under the bed, in old plastic bags at the backyard and on the terrace. By the time the cash could be counted and seized as per the prevailing procedure, it was already [Tuesday] morning. Some documents, which were seized during the search at the bungalow, are being scrutinised,” said an ACB officer.A resident of Aarey Colony in Goregaon (East) had complained against Rathod to ACB on May 14, alleging that the CEO had demanded bribe from him for granting permission to carry out the repair work of his house. It is mandatory to secure prior permission from the CEO’s office to carry out any construction/repair works in Aarey Colony.Rathod’s aide Arvind Tribhuvam Tiwari, 57, was caught on Monday while allegedly accepting bribe of ₹50,000 on the CEO’s behalf. Rathod was arrested after that. A team of ACB officers on Monday night then carried out searches under the supervision of additional commissioner of police (ACB) Lakhmi Gautam at Rathod and Tiwari’s residences at Aarey. ACB officers suspect that the accused may have amassed huge amount of illegitimate assets during his service, and an open inquiry would soon be initiated against him. Rathod also held charge as Worli Dairy’s deputy commissioner.The officers did not seize anything from Tiwari’s house. Rathod and his family’s financial transactions and bank accounts would now be scrutinised, officers said. “Based on the findings of the trap laid and the subsequent seizures, we would secure permission from the authority concerned to initiate an open inquiry against Rathod to look into alleged illegitimate assets. An offence of disproportionate assets would be registered against him,” an ACB officer said. “Rathod is not co-operating with the probe. A court remanded in four days custody,” said Neelam Waval, assistant commissioner of police, ACB.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/346-crore-docus-seized-from-home-of-aarey-colony-ceo-in-mumbai-101621972451038.html
26-05-2021||Other||Dept of atomic energy to build India’s 1st reactor on PPP model||The department of atomic energy (DAE) on Tuesday announced that it will be constructing the country’s first research reactor on public-private partnership (PPP) model. DAE is shortlisting the private enterprises for a partnership in the project. The research reactor, which will be designed by Bhabha Atomic Research Centre (BARC), will produce radioisotopes, and is expected to bring down the costs of nuclear medicine that is used in cancer treatment in India. DAE will provide the upfront capital and build the plant through its subsidiary – Nuclear Power Corporation of India Ltd – the department said in a statement. On April 15, the department had held an informal consultation with 17 companies from around the world, who are interested in joining hands for the project. “The participants represented businesses across the nuclear medicine value chain such as nuclear medicine, pharmaceutical, healthcare, medical devices and nuclear reactor equipment suppliers from USA, Canada, Argentina, Russia, France, UK and two-three Indian suppliers,” read the statement. The design, regulatory clearances and other preparatory work is going at a good pace, the DAE statement further read. In India, all major radioisotopes are produced by BARC, which houses research reactors in its Trombay campus and an accelerator in Kolkata. Some radioisotopes are imported from Europe, Australia and other Asian countries. Radioisotopes are radioactive isotopes that have an unstable atomic nucleus. They emit energy and particles when they change to a more stable form. Radioisotopes are widely used in nuclear medicine for diagnostics purposes as well as to treat diseases like cancer. The industrial uses of radioisotopes include identifications of flow malfunctions, measurement of flow parameters, evaluation of design of chemical reactors, monitoring of product quality and process efficacy.Private entities that are willing to invest in the construction of the reactor and its processing units will get exclusive rights to process and market the radioisotopes produced in the reactor. Radioisotopes in India can be procured and handled only by the users duly authorised by Radiological Safety Division (RSD), Atomic Energy Regulatory Board (AERB). The demand for radioisotopes for nuclear medicine is on the rise. Between 2018 and 2020, the nuclear medicine departments in hospitals in India has grown from 293 to 349, as per AERB.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/dept-of-atomic-energy-to-build-india-s-1st-reactor-on-ppp-model-101621972391088.html
26-05-2021||Other||Promotions after cancellation of 33% quota subject to court orders: Bombay HC||The Bombay high court (HC) on Tuesday made it clear that the promotions given by Maharashtra government pursuant to its May 7 government resolution (GR) would be subject to outcome of the petition challenging the GR. The court has directed the state to file its response to the petition before the next hearing on June 21. The resolution has scrapped the 33% reservation in promotions in government jobs for those employed under the Scheduled Caste (SC), Scheduled Tribe (ST), Vimukta Jati (denotified tribes), Nomadic Tribes (VJNT) and Special Backward Classes and are being offered to employees from the open category. The vacation bench of justice RD Dhanuka and justice Madhav Jamdar, was informed that while the main petition challenged the May 7 GR, others were filed to oppose the plea challenging it. The 33% reservation in promotions was introduced in 2004, under which 13% was for SCs, 7% for STs, 3% for Vimukta Jati, 2% to special backward class and the rest for VJNT. It was applicable to those who joined the state government service on or before April 25, 2004, as per their seniority. Those joining after April 25, 2004, were to get promotion as per the date of joining. However, the May 7 GR cancelled the reservation in promotion two days after the Supreme Court quashed the HC judgment allowing reservations for the Maratha community. The GR also mentioned that promotions by seniority to the 33% vacancies would be subject to the court’s final orders. Sanjay Ghodke, who has challenged the May 7 GR, said that the rights of those belonging to reserved categories would be affected by the decision. “These reservations of 33% existed since 1974, but now in a single stroke, the state has de-reserved all the seats,” his counsel Indira Jaising argued. The senior counsel further said that the state had no authority to issue the order, nor had it given any reason or justification while on it and hence it was arbitrary and an about turn from its earlier position. “In fact, Maharashtra is the only state in this country to de-reserve the posts reserved for SC, ST categories,” she said, adding that the state’s decision is galloping to fill up all the posts meant for reserved categories. Jaising sought a stay on the operation of the May 7 GR. However, the bench said that before passing any orders, the matter requires to be heard at length as there are several stake holders involved who too had to be heard. State’s counsel Mihir Desai said the state has proposed to grant promotions based on the GR. Following this the bench said, “We make it clear that any promotion that would be made by the state government pursuant to the Interim GR May 7 and circular dated May 10 shall be subject to further orders that would be passed by this court at the stage of admission. The promotees, if any promoted pursuant to the GR and circular, shall be informed about the pending proceedings in this court.” Directing the state government and other respondents to file affidavits in reply to the petitions within two weeks, the bench posted further hearing to June 21.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/promotions-after-cancellation-of-33-quota-subject-to-court-orders-bombay-hc-101621972151028.html
26-05-2021||Other||Money laundering case: ED raids properties of Anil Deshmukh’s ‘aides’ in Nagpur||Troubles for former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh could mount as Enforcement Directorate sleuths on Tuesday raided properties of some businessmen in Nagpur who reportedly have close proximity with the politician. ED is investigating allegations of money laundering based on a complaint by former Mumbai Police chief Param Bir Singh against Deshmukh. It is learnt that three of Deshmukh’s close associates in Nagpur had come under ED’s radar after their bank transactions had linked them to the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader and his family. According to reports, the ED team raided at least three places, including the residence and offices of businessman Sagar Bhatewar at Shivaji Nagar. Bhatewar is said to have had some financial dealings with the Nagpur-based politician, who is also facing a Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) probe into the allegations, following a high court order. Despite repeated attempts, Bhatewar did not respond to HT’s calls and messages. The Central agency also raided the houses and offices of two other businessmen, reportedly close to the former home minister, at Jafar Nagar and Sadar areas in west Nagpur. It was said that ED had seized laptops and vital documents from these places. ED had earlier registered offences against Deshmukh based on by CBI’s first information report (FIR). CBI had raided Deshmukh’s Civil Lines residence at Nagpur last month and seized several documents, along with some cash. ED had also recorded the statement of a bar owner in Mumbai in connection to the case and also summoned some more people. Singh had alleged that Deshmukh had asked to dismiss assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze and other police personnel to collect ₹100 crore every month from establishments in Mumbai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/money-laundering-case-ed-raids-properties-of-anil-deshmukh-s-aides-in-nagpur-101621972091028.html
26-05-2021||Mumbai||Model that helped Mumbai tide over 2nd wave||From being the epicentre of the Covid-19 pandemic to being hailed nationally for its containment model, Mumbai has come a long way. The city with a population of over 20 million had only 10% vacant beds in hospitals and Covid jumbo care centres in the first week of April. Now, over 60% of the beds are empty in the city. To achieve the ‘Mumbai model’, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) had to take multiple initiatives not only to handle shortage of beds, but control the mortality rate, and ensure timely supply of oxygen and medicines to the infected patients. In April, when the second wave of the pandemic was at its peak, the country’s financial city recorded more than 10,000 daily cases thrice. But now, the daily average has come down to around 2,000 cases. The BMC has garnered quite a lot of praise from across the nation. The Supreme Court not only applauded the management of medical oxygen supply in Mumbai, but also recommended that the Delhi government replicate the “Mumbai model” to fight the pandemic. On April 1, Mumbai had 50,055 active patients who were on Covid-19 treatment. The number has now fallen to 27,649. This stands a 45% fall in the total active cases. Strengthened health infrastructure On April 1, Mumbai had 15,971 beds in 97 dedicated care centres and hospitals. Of this, only 4,160 beds were available. The city had 1,805 beds for patients on Intensive Care Units (ICU), but 139 of them were available. Of the 1,143 ventilator beds, only 82 were empty. By April 15, the number of total beds was raised to over 20,000, which included ICU and ventilator beds. Along with focusing on strengthening the health infrastructure, the BMC also had to chalk out plans and initiatives to deal with shortage of beds, which could have increased the fatality rate. “When the pandemic curve flattened post November 2020, we used some Covid-19 beds for patients with non-Covid infection. As soon as the number started soaring again, we upgraded our facilities. Initially, we had a limited number of ICU beds which were increased within a fortnight,” Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner, health. “Almost 40% Covid Care Centre (CCC) were activated and the remaining were kept on standby,” he added. Patients were, however, still struggling to find beds in hospitals and jumbo centres. Private hospitals were instructed to use 80% beds for Covid care. So, acting on war footing, the BMC standardised the system. “We decentralised ward war rooms (24) and each were instructed to manage their own geographical areas. It was mandatory for beds to be allotted only through these war rooms. Hospitals were directed not to allow direct or walk-in admission. The individual wards were responsible for contact tracing, isolation, identifying high-risk contacts,” said Dr Rahul Pandit, a member of the state task force for Covid-19. The availability of beds was made public through a live bed tracker in both public and private hospitals across the 24 wards. In fact, all wards were provided with their individual ambulances to save time in commute. “Many a times, patients would keep waiting for a bed of the hospital of their choice which often delayed their treatment. When this Standard operating procedure (SOP) was started, it helped channelise the admission process,” said Bhagyashree Kapse, ward officer of R/C that covers Borivali. Private laboratories were even instructed not to inform the infected patients directly. “We were instructed to share the list of infected patients directly with the war rooms. Officials from the war rooms would individually contact the patients and arrange for beds as per their health parameters,” said a senior officer from a laboratory. These on-ground initiatives helped curb shortages of beds like witnessed in the first wake of the pandemic. At present, the city has 22,077 beds in the dedicated care centres and hospitals. As many as 13,704 beds are available. The number of ICU beds has increased to 2,867. Out of this, 532 beds are vacant. If an infected patient was asymptomatic, they were advised to isolate at home. In case, if they didn’t have equipment to check temperature or oxygen levels, the field officers visited them to record all parameters. All elderly above 50 years or people with comorbidities like diabetes, tuberculosis, cancer among others were isolated in CCC nearby. Early detection, isolation and treatment The Opposition criticised the civic body for conducting fewer tests, alleging it led to infected people spreading the virus to others. Till March 21, the civic body was conducting around 18,000 tests daily on an average. But from March 22, the BMC started increasing the testing to over 40,000 daily. “We were instructed to test as many people as possible. It was in two ways— the floating population of people in bus stands, markets, and malls were tested with a rapid antigen test (RAT) which gave results within 30 minutes. While the stationed population like shopkeepers, residents were tested with RT-PCR. This helped in early detection, isolation and treatment,” said Kakani. In April, on an average, the civic body was conducting over 45,000 tests daily. In fact, anticipating a shortage, the BMC had floated a tender procuring 2 lakh vials of Remdesivir. During the first wave of novel coronavirus last year, Mumbai’s oxygen requirement was approximately 210 metric tonnes which rose to 270 metric tonnes post March, when the city’s active cases surged to 90,000. The BMC initiated ‘Mission Mode’ under which all oxygen manufacturers and distributors were instructed to provide adequate oxygen supply in civic and private hospitals across Mumbai. The details of the supply and stock were maintained through a centralised Google Drive document around-the-clock. “During the first wave, we had realised the importance of oxygen so we installed nearly 24 Liquid Medical Oxygen (LMO) tanks. But due to lower demand, half of them remained unused which we became helpful in the second wave when the cases increased drastically,” added Kakani. In the first wave, due to the national lockdown, the footfall of non-Covid patients fell by 80% so the private and major civic-run hospitals had enough beds for Covid-19 patients. However, in the second wave, with the relaxation of the lockdown, the hospitals were reeling under the pressure of both Covid and non-Covid patients. Thus, the jumbo covid care centres also played a major role in the second wave. Talking about it, Dr Neelam Andrade, dean of NESCO jumbo Covid care centre in Goregaon said, “So far, we have treated around 21,000 patients. We have 413 pipelines for oxygen. Along with that, we have over 200 ICU beds. In the month of April, there was a huge load of patients. We also provided counselling to the patients to help them with their mental health.” Getting ready for the third wave State health minister Rajesh Tope has already declared a possible third wave after September. As a precautionary measure, the BMC has decided to add 5,000 more beds for Covid-19 patients. In addition to this, three major jumbo centres will be set up, which will cater to over 2,000 patients. These centres will also have ICU beds. But the main priority would be to ramp up the mass immunisation programme. The civic body, which is expecting to get the vials next month, wants to inoculate over 1crore people within two months. “If we are expecting a third wave post September, it is imperative that we vaccinate as many people as possible. Along with elderly, we also want to inoculate the younger population who possibly would be more affected in the next wave. We are just waiting for the vials before we could reboost the immunisation programme,” said Kakani. Just like decentralisation of the war rooms, the BMC has plans to bifurcate the vaccination as per wards. “Citizens would get vaccinated as per their individual wards, which will help control crowding and smoothen the process,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/model-that-helped-mumbai-tide-over-2nd-wave-101621971911075.html
26-05-2021||Other||Petrol 29 paise short of reaching ₹100-mark in Mumbai||A day after remaining constant, fuel prices surged in the city on Tuesday. The price of petrol was short of only 29 paise to touch the ₹100-mark, after a litre of the fuel was priced at ₹99.71 on Tuesday. One litre of diesel was available at ₹91.57 following a 22-paise surge.On Monday, petrol and diesel were available for was priced at ₹99.49 and ₹91.30 per litre.In Thane, one litre of petrol was priced at ₹99.83, while diesel was available for ₹91.69 on Tuesday. Among the metro cities, Mumbai had the highest fuel prices. In Delhi, petrol and diesel were available for ₹93.44 and ₹84.32, respectively. At Hyderabad, petrol and diesel were priced at ₹97.12 and ₹91.92, while in Chennai, they were available at ₹95.06 and ₹89.11, per litre, respectively. Transporters’ bodies have stated they have approached the Centre, demanding a cut down on excise duty. “We have asked the government to cut down on excise duty. State governments should reduce their value-added tax (VAT) to provide some relief to the bleeding transport sector and the common man. Also, petrol and diesel should be brought under the goods and service tax (GST),” said Bal Malkit Singh, chairman, All India Motor Transport Congress.“The government’s failure and deliberate reluctance to provide any relief to distressed sectors by way of blanket moratorium, freeing tolls or extending insurance or retraining corruption by its officials on roads only points to its arrogance,” added Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/petrol-29-paise-short-of-reaching-100mark-101621971671044.html
26-05-2021||Chandigarh||4,798 fresh cases, 176 deaths in Punjab||Punjab on Tuesday witnessed a slight increase in daily infections and positivity rate with the figures standing at 4,798 and 7.28%, respectively. Also, 176 people lost their lives to the virus on the day.On Monday, the state had registered 4,539 fresh cases and a 6.51% positivity rate. 6,451 patients had recovered on the day. Among Tuesday deaths, maximum 19 were reported from Ludhiana, followed by 17 in Sangrur, 16 in Amritsar, 14 in Bathinda, 13 in Patiala, 12 in Jalandhar, nine each in Muktsar and SAS Nagar, eight in Ferozepur, seven in Kapurthala.Jalandhar registered maximum of 536 fresh cases, followed by 461 in Ludhiana, 376 in SAS Nagar, 352 in Amritsar, 344 in Bathinda, 334 in Fazilka, 300 in Muktsar, 275 in Patiala, 243 in Pathankot, 233 in Gurdaspur, 229 in Hoshiarpur, 196 in Mansa, 140 in Faridkot, 132 in Sangrur, 114 in Ferozepur, 104 in Kapurthala, 81 in Barnala, 73 in Tarn Taran, 58 in Ropar, 50 in Moga and 35 in SBS Nagar. The number of patients on oxygen support in the state is 6,357 whereas 386 people are on ventilators.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/4798-fresh-cases-176-deaths-in-punjab-101621971253709.html
26-05-2021||Chandigarh||32 of 158 black fungus patients in Punjab have no Covid history||Not all mucormycosis or black fungus patients in Punjab are those who recovered from Covid-19. According to health officials, out of 158 confirmed cases of mucormycosis in the state till Tuesday afternoon, 32 had never developed Covid symptoms even as virus has emerged as the most common factor among the patients fighting the fungal infection. State’s nodal officer for black fungus Dr Gagandeep Singh said it is not necessary that only Covid-hit patients are prone to contract it. “Any person who has taken excessive steroids for treatment of other disease due to which he has become immune-compromised can contract the disease. Our experts are analysing every case minutely,” said the nodal officer. The nodal officer said it’s not a contagious disease and is curable if the patient gets treatment in time. According to media bulletin of mucormycosis, out of a total 158 patients in Punjab, 22 belong to other states. Of the 21 deaths, two patients were from outside the state. Amphotericin-B injection shortage another worry The shortage of Amphotericin-B injections being administered to treat the mucormycosis patients has added to the woes of the state health authorities. So far, the fungus has claimed 21 lives in the state. According to a senior health department functionary, the Centre on Tuesday sent 200 Amphotericin-B injections to Punjab against a daily requirement of 700 as 137 patients are availing treatment for the disease in different hospitals. Doctors say each patient needs 4-5 injections a day. Keeping the existing scenario in mind, the Punjab government’s expert committee on black fungus led by Dr RPS Sibia, professor and head, department of medicine, Government Medical College Patiala, on Tuesday discussed alternative drugs to treat the fungus. According to a senior health department functionary, the National Health Mission officials have already been given the task to procure some alternative drugs suggested by the experts from the open market. The expert committee on Tuesday reportedly also invited Prof Arunaloke Chakrabarti, head of department of medical microbiology, PGIMER, for his suggestions on the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/32-of-158-black-fungus-patients-in-punjab-have-no-covid-history-101621971071525.html
26-05-2021||Mumbai||Barge P305: Casualties of Cyclone Tauktae||Four more bodies of deceased crew members of P305, an accommodation barge that sank off the coast of Mumbai on May 17, were identified on May 25 a day after the Indian Navy called off its Search and Rescue (SAR) operations after a week. The accommodation barge sank in Heera Oil Fields off the coast of Mumbai as Cyclone Tauktae barreled its way northwards along the Konkan coast. By the time the boat sank, most of the 261 people on board had jumped into the swirling Arabian Sea with their life jackets, hoping that help was on its way. The barge became unmoored on May 16, after all 12 of its anchors broke away and by the following afternoon, water had begun to fill into the vessel. The SAR operations have rescued 186 people from P305 till now, and 71 bodies have been recovered, of which 52 people have been identified. The identification process for the remaining 19 is ongoing. The police is collecting DNA samples of relatives to ascertain the identity of the unidentified bodies. A tugboat, Varaprada, which was also missing along with 11 of its 13 crew members (two were rescued last week), was recovered from the seabed 20 nautical miles off the coast of Mumbai on May 24. Three of the eight bodies discovered in Daman and Valsad’s shores were of the crew members of the tugboat. P305 – owned by Durmast Enterprises Limited, and chartered by a consortium led by Afcons Industries to carry out a project contract for the Oil and Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC) –received a warning of an impending storm, but chose to drop anchor close to the oil rig while other barges and vessels made their way to safety onshore.Both ONGC and Afcons have announced compensation for crew members. ONGC released a statement on Tuesday stating that it has handed over immediate relief amount to 56 survivors of Barge Papaa-305 and Varaprada in Mumbai. ONGC teams are on their way to hand over 22 more. “A nodal officer has been assigned from ONGC to each family of deceased, who is responsible for facilitating their logistics, boarding, lodging, counselling, completing formalities and transportation of mortal remains to respective home station and any local support,” the state-owned company said. Last week, Afcons also released a statement which said that it would provide compensation to the families of the deceased that would be a combination of “ex-gratia pay-outs and insurance compensation and would range from ₹35 lakh to ₹75 lakh per family.”Ajay Singh (39), rigger In October 2020, Singh left his family in Ajagara village of Azamgarh district in Uttar Pradesh, to work on the accommodation barge, P305. The earnings weren’t much – according to his brother, Sanjay, he earned ₹700 a day for a 12-hour duty. Riggers work at shipyards or other work units lifting, moving and positioning heavy equipment, machines and oversized loads. Singh was the only breadwinner of his family, which comprised his wife, a son who studies in class 10, and a daughter, a student of class 7. Initially, on account of the strict lockdown, none of his close family members could come to identify his body. They requested a distant relative, JP Singh, who resides in Koperkhairane, to visit the JJ Hospital mortuary where the P305 deceased were being brought in. However, the relative could not identify Ajay, as he had last seen him nearly 20 years ago at his wedding. Eventually, brother Sanjay, a 35-year-old farmer managed to come to Mumbai and identified his brother’s body. Afcons Industries flew his brother’s body back to the state, Sanjay said. The last rites were completed in Benares. Arjun Pandey, 29, welder A resident of Gopalganj in Bihar, Arjun Pandey worked as gas cutter and welder on barge P305 starting January this year. The soon-to-be-father was the sole bread winner of his family and sent most of his earnings -- ₹1,300 daily for 12 hours of work – back home. Pandey came to Mumbai on January 10, and stayed at his brother-in-law’s house in Navi Mumbai for a few days, before he joined work in last week of January. As the cyclonic storm barreled its way up north the coastline, Pandey called his pregnant wife on May 17 at around 7 am. He spoke to her for a short while and told her about the vessel which sent out an SOS signal to the Indian Navy after the storm intensified to an extremely severe cyclonic storm earlier that morning. That was the last she heard from him. A relative identified his body on May 20 after he scoured the list of survivors put out by the Navy, but couldn’t find Pandey’s name on it.Nilesh Pitale, 44, fire safety officer A Pune resident, Pitale worked as fire safety officer on the barge P305. Some survivors whom HT spoke to remembered Pitale with gratitude. The 44-year-old helped several crew members survive, by distributing biscuits and water after water entered their vessel and destroyed the food available in the kitchen. The barge, which got unmoored after all 12 of its anchors broke off, began to fill up with water around 2 pm on May 17. By 7pm it had sunk completely. Younger brother Vishwanath, who also lives in Pune and works in a courier company, identified Pitale’s body at JJ Hospital and took the body for cremation on May 21. Pitale leaves behind a wife, two elderly parents, a 17-year-old son and an 11-year-old daughter. He was the only earning member in his family. Upendra Singh, 39, rigger Upendra Singh, a rigger on P305, belonged to a small village in Devaria district of Uttar Pradesh. His younger brother Satyendra (35) also worked as a rigger on another vessel, Trinity Nissi, which was also chartered by the consortium led by Afcons Infrastructure and was stationed at Heera Oil Fields. Singh had just joined work in October. On May 14, when the cyclone warning went out, Trinity left for the Mumbai shore but P305 moved 200 metres from the rig and dropped anchor. Satyendra identified his brother’s body at JJ hospital on May 20 and performed last rites back in their village two days later. The company helped fly the body back, and took care of the expenses, Satyendra said. Singh is survived by his wife, elderly parents and three children – two daughters, aged 12 and three, and a son aged five. Krishna Kumar Prajapati, 28, welder Krishna Kumar Prajapati, 28, was the only child of his parents who are farmers in Prayagraj in Uttar Pradesh. Prajapati, worked as welder, earning ₹600 a day for 12 hours. On many days, he worked a few hours overtime to earn ₹150 to 200 more every day. He wanted to save enough money to send home as the pandemic had affected his family’s finances badly. Prajapati had other family members working with him on the barge. One named Anil had finished his contract on February 28. It was he who identified Prajapati’s body at the mortuary. Another cousin, 22-year-old Anup Prajapati, worked as helper on the same barge, but he returned to land 10 days previously after receiving a message that his parents had fallen ill. On May 16, as the storm began to gather intensity leading to the barge getting unmoored, Prajapati sent a message to Anup: “Cyclone ki wajah se barge full out hai” [The barge has gone out to the sea because of the cyclone]. Pappuram Meghwal, 32, pipe fitter Pappuram Meghwal working as a pipe fitter with his older brother Amararam (40) and younger cousin Mahendra Runawat on the barge. Married with two children, Pappuram jumped into the water with his two brothers before the barge sank on May 17. However, he couldn’t survive the choppy sea even as the naval ships involved in rescuing. His body was identified by his father last week and taken back to the village in ambulance from Mumbai. His last rites were performed on May 22. Yogendra Yadav, 45, rigger Yogendra Yadav, a resident of Kushinagar district, Uttar Pradesh was a rigger aboard P305 – a profession that he has been in for the past 12 years. He earned around ₹26,000 per month, most of which he sent back to his family which comprised of a wife and five children including three daughters and two sons ranging from 22 to 7 years.He was the sole breadwinner of his family and his death has hit them hard. His nephews Gulshan Yadav (20) and Pankaj (25), residents of Nalasopara identified the body. Gulshan said that Yadav’s wife is “in shock”. “My aunt is still in shock and clueless about how would she raise all the children alone. She is under tremendous trauma as the incident happened at a time when there was already so much pandemic related panic around.” Yadav’s body was cremated in his home town last week. Kulwinder Singh, 44, rigger Kulwinder Singh, a resident of Gurdaspur, Punjab had been working on the barge as a rigger, which involved physical work. For it, he earned between ₹20,000 to ₹22,000 a month, most of which he sent to his farmer family back home. A relative Jagpreet Singh, also from Gurdaspur, was also on the barge, and jumped into the choppy waters. He survived, and identified Singh’s body. Jagpreet was angry that the barge continued to stay on in the sea despite the cyclone warning, especially as other barges made their way back to safety. “The people responsible for the tragedy should not be spared and must face strict action,” he said. Singh is survived by his wife, two sons aged 8 and 12 years and a 5-year-old daughter. After the tragedy his family is in shock. The government should give a job to the family. Only monetary compensation won’t be of much help as he was the only earning member in the poor family,” Jagpreet said.Sachindra Prasad Singh, 59, barge surveyor. Sachindra Prasad Singh hailed from Darbhanga in Bihar, and worked as a barge surveyor. On May 17, Singh jumped into the choppy waters but could not be rescued. His son, Rudra Kumar, 26, came down to the city to identify the body and said that his family is inconsolable. “My family is in deep shock. We are busy in performing the rituals. My family is not in position to express the loss. It would not be easy for us to come out of this. I lost my father. It’s irreparable. The police must seriously investigate the matter and punish those responsible for it.”Vishal Katdare, 35, quality control engineer Vishal Katdare, a resident of Ambernath in Thane district, had only just got married in March, when he got this job offer. It was a tough decision to make but Katdare decided to take it, and joined the barge in April. “The family has not heard anything on the progress of the investigation of the case. We want a detailed investigation by police to find out if any one’s negligence led to the incident. The family members are in trauma and are not in condition to speak to anyone. They are shattered,” said Pawan Kulkarni, the cousin of Katdare, who identified the body. Amararam Meghwal, 39 A native of a remote village in Pali district of Rajasthan, Amararam was working on the barge P305 as a pipe fitter. On May 17, when the barge was going under water, he jumped into the sea, holding the hand of his younger brother, Pappuram, and a cousin, 19-year-old Mahendra Runawat. Amararam and Pappuram succumbed after spending four to five hours in the very choppy sea, but their younger cousin managed to survive. Amararam’s body was identified by another cousin brother, Kishor, on May 24. The family has received two cheques of ₹5 lakh from Afcons, the family said. “I don’t know the exact salary, but Amararam and Pappuram used to earn Rs. 35000 to 40000 per month including overtime salary,” he said, adding that the loss of income will hit the family hard. The body was transported to Rajasthan by ambulance on May 24, while his brother’s body was transported and handed to the family over the weekend. The last rites of both brothers have been completed. Amararam is survived by a wife, two children. IDENTIFICATION PENDING Shivkumar Mishra 52, missing Mishra, who hailed from Kushinagar district in Uttar Pradesh, had been working as a supervisor on the barge since October 2020. His earnings, which amounted to ₹1 lakh a month, helped his large family back home, which included a 17-year-old son and a 19-year-old daughter. The last call he made to them was around 8:30am on May 17: the storm had already intensified and the barge had sent out an SOS signal as the weather worsened. Mishra told his family members about the situation. He also told his wife that there was network issue due to the cyclone but she should not worry, he would call her once the weather became normal. That was the last call that the 52-year-old made to his family. Santosh Mishra, a relative residing in Mira Road, visited JJ Hospital every day this past week and waited for hours till late in the evening in the hope that the Navy would bring Mishra’s body to the state-run hospital. Now, Mishra’s older brother who was supposed to come to Mumbai to enable a DNA test, tested positive for Covid and couldn’t travel. A relative from the village will carry some of his hair and nails to Mumbai, Santosh said. “Some of the bodies arrived here are not in a condition to be identified and we now have to do DNA test,” he said. Santosh Yadav, 32 Santosh Yadav, who hailed from Jaunpur in Uttar Pradesh, had worked as electrician on P305 since November 2020. The 32-year-old had married early and had three children: two sons and a daughter, all aged between six and 11 years. Yadav earned more than ₹1000 per day for 12 hours of work, most of which went back to his family, a relative said. For the past three days, Yadav’s family members including his aged father, Mathura Prasad, have been pacing the JJ Hospital compound as they wait anxiously for news from the Navy’s search and rescue operations. On Monday, the search operations were called off. Mathura Prasad, a farmer, said that the process of identification through DNA is going on. Ranalakhi Kumar, 28 Ranalakhi Kumar had worked as a technician on P305 since November 2020. On May 17, as the barge began to sink, he jumped into the rough sea despite the stormy weather along with several others. His cousin Rana Singh worked as a technician on Trinity Nissi, another barge that was working at Heera Oil Fields and returned to shore after receiving the cyclone warning. While P305 had 261 on board, Trinity Nissi had 250 people on board and it was anchored near the Mumbai harbour. On May 19, many workers on board fought with the Master to return to land. They had heard what happened to P305, and some like Rana, had family members on that barge. Rana is still waiting for news of his cousin whose body has still not been identified. Kumar, a resident of Chhapara district in Bihar has two children, a 4-year old daughter and one-and-half-year-old son. Barge Papaa305 Total crew - 261 Rescued - 186 Identified - 50 1) Mohan Varsi Krishna, 33 2) Azahar Yunus Gaddi, 25 3) Sachindra Prasad Anand Singh, 59 4) Navinkumar Pramod Singh, 29 5) Arjun Pandey, 33 6) Prabhat Virendra Singh, 45 7) Pramod Rajdev Pathak, 45 8) Rajpal Jay Yadav, 50 9) Arjun Munnapi Thangapan, 38 10) Sasus Ismile, 25 11) Anthony Edwin, 26 12) Jomish Joseph, 35 13) Sumesh V. S., 30 14) Anant Carpenter, 36 15) Yogesh Girgosavi, 33 16) Girish Bhausaheb Wagh, 37 17) Nilesh Pitale, 44 18) Amarraj Barnbas, 43 19) Dina Haridayanand Singh, 34 20) Golakh Chandra Sahoo, 52 21) Mata Prasad Mangala Singh, 29 22) Mahanish Kulkarni, 34 23) Pappuram Udaram Meghwal, 32 24) Vishal Vasant Kathadare, 35 25) Kulwinder Ajit Singh, 45 26) Mandeep Jaywant Singh, 32 27) Manpreet Balwant Singh, 26 28) Manjeet Singh, 42 29) Ajay Shivprasad Singh, 39 30) Sandeep Singh Santosh Singh, 25 31) Upendra Radheshyam Singh, 42 32) Vijaveer Dharmaraj Singh, 33 33) Sushil Kumar Shiv Singh Pal, 23 34) Sandeep Kumar Yadav, 33 35) Yogendra Sarada Yadav, 43, 36) Ajaysingh Rajendra Singh Rana, 23 37) Rohit Jaypal, 22 38) Suresh Krushna, 45 39) Omprakash Mishra, 40 40) Radheshyam Thakur, 27 41) Anant Kumar Chaurasiya, 36 42) Sanish Joseph, 21 43) Akash Ramsingh, 28 44) Krishnakumar Prajapati, 29 45) Aditya Kumar Bind, 37 46) Pralhad Forward Singh (age not known) 47) Vivek Das (age not known) 48) Dipakar Mukundbihari Vishwas (age not known) IDENTIFICATION PENDING: 25 Tugboat Varaprada Total crew members -13 RESCUED- 2 Francis Simon, 51 Sahab Sapan Bhutiya, 23 DECEASED- 3 Saddam Hussain Ejaz Ahmed - 29 Nagendra Kumar Prajapati, 59 Ummed Singh, 61 IDENTIFICATION PENDING: 8 Pankaj Kumar Chandra Bhushan Sharma, 46 Umit singh kushwa, 61 Vicky Bhuplal, 29 Vijay Kumar Baburam, 27 Suraj Shantilal Chauhan, 22 Rakesh Kumar Thakur, 29 Ankush Surendra Kashyap, 28 Bapaditha Bablu Mahta, 27||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/barge-p305-casualties-of-cyclone-tauktae-101621970892112.html
26-05-2021||Mumbai||Maratha reservation issue: King Shivaji’s descendant leaning towards Congress?||Even as the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)is squarely blaming the Shiv Sena-Nationalist Congress Party-Congress coalition government for Supreme Court’s decision to scrap reservation given to Maratha community in government jobs and education, Sambhajiraje Chhatrapati, a descendant of Maratha warrior king Shivaji and BJP’s Rajya Sabha MP, has openly taken a stand that is against the party line in Maharashtra. Amid the speculations that he is inching towards the Congress, Sambhajiraje has refused to blame the MVA government for the apex court’s decision. Speaking at public platforms after the May 5 judgment by the Supreme Court on Maratha quota, Sambhajiraje expressed his displeasure that he was denied an appointment by Prime Minister Narendra Modi for discussion over the Maratha issue. The MP has been vocal on the reservation and has begun a state tour to galvanise support. During his tour in Solapur, he said on Tuesday that he was ready to resign as an MP if required. He also clarified his tour was not in favour of or against any political party or the government. He also appealed the Maratha leaders and organisations not to resort to the protest for the reservation. His retort came following remarks by state BJP chief Chandrakant Patil on Monday that PM Modi may not have met Sambhajiraje because Maratha reservation issue is limited to only one state. “The Centre has taken clear stand related to the 102nd constitutional amendment on reservation. What else would Modiji have discussed with the MP,” he asked. When asked about Sambhajiraje’s appeal to Maratha outfits not resort to protest, Patil said everybody has right to say what he/she wishes in democracy. The bonhomie between Sambhajiraje and Congress is visible. The Congress on Tuesday objected to Patil’s remarks and criticised Modi for not meeting Sambhajiraje and thus insulting Maratha community. “PM Modi has time to meet Kangana Ranaut and Priyanka Chopra, but not Sambhajiraje who wanted to talk about Maratha reservation,” said Congress spokesperson Sachin Sawant. Public works minister and head of state cabinet’s sub-committee on Maratha reservation, Ashok Chavan, too, appreciated Sambhajiraje’s stand on the issue. “He has taken a stand which is realistic and with an intention to give justice to Maratha community. We respect his opinion,”Chavan said after a meeting on the issue on Tuesday. Soon after the reservation was struck down, Sambhajiraje had said that he does not hold any government – incumbent or the previous – responsible for the ruling. At the same time, Maharashtra BJP leaders were criticising Uddhav Thackeray-led state government and warned it with the protest claiming it was state government’s failure. Patil has even announced support to the protests, beginning from first week of June. “My commitment is with the community. I am not answerable to BJP. The party should take its stand on reservation and suggest the way forward towards the reservation…. I requested prime minister Narendra Modi for an appointment to discuss Maratha reservation, but there was no response,” the MP said recently. Many in political circles feel that the MP may not continue with the BJP for long. “His entire family is has been close to the Congress. His brother Maloji Shahu Chhatrapati was a Congress MLA in 2004. He has time and again clarified that he has been nominated to Rajya Sabha by President and has no direct relation with the BJP. He shares cordial relations with the MVA leaders and was recently praised by Thackeray in his Facebook live address for the sensible stand taken by him after the SC ruling. It would be too early to predict anything, but a major development is expected on that front,” said a Congress leader. Political analyst from Western Maharashtra Prakash Pawar said, “Ever since another direct descendent of Shivaji Maharaj Udayanraje Bhosale joined the BJP in 2019, Sambhajiraje Chhatrapati appears to be disturbed in the party. His statement against the BJP is a clear indication of his plans and he is testing waters by deliberately doing so. His political move will be clear towards the end of his term as an MP in the next few months,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maratha-reservation-issue-king-shivaji-s-descendant-leaning-towards-congress-101621970350924.html
26-05-2021||Other||348 newly elected gram pradhans sworn in, 274 others to take oath today in Prayagraj||In a first, 348 newly elected gram pradhans in 23 development blocks of the district took the oath of office in virtual ceremonies on Tuesday. The remaining 274 gram pradhans will take the oaths on Wednesday. The virtual oath-taking ceremonies conducted with the help of Google and Zoom links were held at primary schools and Panchayat Bhawans, intimation regarding which were provided to the gram pradhans concerned in advance by the Panchayati Raj department officials, informed district Panchayati raj officer (DPRO) Renu Srivastava. She said that returning officers were stationed at each site of the swearing-in ceremony to ensure the physical presence of the newly elected gram pradhans while block development officers had been entrusted the task of taking signatures of each of the individual being administered the oath on the document as required under the norms. The rest of all the proceedings were held in virtual mode. The district has a total of 1540 Gram Sabhas but many of these have posts of gram panchayat members lying vacant and for the swearing-in, the set quorum must be complete. As a result, swearing-in of just 629 is scheduled to be held on the two days while the remaining 911 gram pradhans would be sworn in only when this quorum gets completed, officials shared. The DPRO said that the district has a total of 19,820 posts of gram panchayat members who are sworn in along with the gram pradhans and so around 7,500 of them would also be sworn in later when their respective gram pradhans are administered the oaths. Earlier, district magistrate Bhanu Chandra Goswami had issued the notification for the swearing-in ceremonies of newly elected gram pradhans and panchayat members to be held in virtual mode late on Monday night entrusting the responsibilities of conducting the ceremonies on respective officials of the various development blocks. They were sent the Google and Zoom links on Tuesday morning through which they then administered the oaths. Polling under the first phase of the three-tier panchayat elections had taken place in Prayagraj on April 15. Voting in all 1540 gram sabhas of 23 development blocks of the district was held at 5269 polling booths. The counting began on May 2 at centres set up in each development block and results of the elections were declared on May 2 and May 3. PHOTO CAPTION: Swearing-in ceremonies underway at two different sites in Kaudihar and Phulpur development blocks of the trans-Ganga region of Prayagraj on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/348-newly-elected-gram-pradhans-sworn-in-274-others-to-take-oath-today-in-prayagraj-101621970171570.html
26-05-2021||Mumbai||Samant-Fadnavis meeting leads to speculation||Bharatiya Janata Party leader Nilesh Rane’s claims of a “secret meeting” between Shiv Sena minister Uday Samant and former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis last week have led to political speculations. However, Samant has dismissed the rumours, saying it was an incidental meeting in Ratnagiri, when the two leaders were on a tour to assess the damage due to cyclone Tauktae in Konkan region. Rane, the elder son of former chief minister and Sena bete-noire Narayan Rane, tweeted that Samant and his brother wanted to meet Fadnavis during the latter’s tour to Ratnagiri last week. “The two somehow reached saheb’s (Fadnavis’) room; unwilling to meet, still Devendra ji met with them,” Rane tweeted, setting the tongues wagging in the political circles. Samant, who is state higher and technical education minister, said it was not a closed-door meeting as Rane had claimed and that he met Fadnavis while “200 others” were present at the guest house in Ratnagiri.Samant said this was an attempt to “destabilize” his political career but it will not “diminish” the trust Sena chief and Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray have in him. He said he does not pay heed to the claims made by the Ranes, “who have been rejected by the people of Konkan twice”.The minister, who hails from Ratnagiri district, said he met Fadnavis as the former CM was at the same guesthouse and it was merely to welcome him in his district. “Why would I meet in front of 200 people? This incident occurred six days ago when I was on tour of Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg. Former chief minister [Fadnavis] came to the guesthouse in Ratnagiri where I was staying. As per the political culture of Maharashtra, if somebody senior like a former CM or opposition leader has come to the district, it is my duty to welcome him, which I did. I did not meet him alone. Those who were present there included BJP leaders Pravin Darekar, Ravindra Chavan, and Prasad Lad. I came to the guesthouse before he (Fadnavis) arrived and if I met him incidentally and exchanged greetings, I do not think I have committed any crime,” Samant clarified on Tuesday.Samant, who came to the Shiv Sena from Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) in 2014, is one of the key leaders from Konkan region, which is Sena’s stronghold. He is considered close to the Thackerays and was chosen to be a minister in 2019, overlooking two leaders from Konkan, including former minister of state for home Deepak Kesarkar, and former minister in Congress-NCP government Bhaskar Jadhav, who joined the Sena from NCP in 2019. The minister also dismissed rumours around “operation Lotus” (BJP’s alleged plan to bring down a government) , saying that he does not need to jump ship. “If somebody thinks that by tweeting such things, the trust that Uddhav ji and Aaditya ji have in me will diminish, it is very immature of them. There is no need for operation Lotus because a Shiv Sena chief minister will remain in the chair in future as well. Our Maha Vikas Aghadi is strong. Therefore, I don’t need to look at this operation lotus of theirs.”Later, Rane in a video tweet said that Samant could not have denied meeting Fadnavis and is now “in a fix” to save his ministership. “What culture are you talking about? Many former chief ministers come to Ratnagiri, you don’t go to meet them. … You know that BJP will come to power the next time, so you have planted a seed so that you can jump the ship when it is time,” Rane said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/samantfadnavis-meeting-leads-to-speculation-101621970170955.html
26-05-2021||Mumbai||Cyclone Tauktae-hit to get hiked compensation: CM||Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Tuesday announced a hike in compensation rate for people who suffered losses due to cyclone Tauktae, which hit the coastal districts last week. With the multi-fold rise in compensation amount, the financial burden is expected to be around ₹250 crore, according to the preliminary estimates. The cyclone has caused damage to crops and horticulture on around 16,000 hectares in coastal districts of Konkan, including Ratnagiri, Sindhudurg, Raigad and few districts of western, northern Maharashtra and Vidarbha. The compensation hike is at least two to three times the set norms of National Disaster Response Fund (NDRF). The compensation for horticultural losses has been hiked to ₹50,000 a hectare, from the existing ₹18,000; the compensation for the partial loss of residential structure has been increased to ₹15,000 from ₹6,000. The complete loss of house will be compensated with ₹150,000, against the existing norm of ₹95,100. The financial aid for loss of utensils and clothing has been hiked by double to ₹5,000. Similarly, compensation for losses of coconut and betel nut trees is hiked to ₹250 and ₹50 per tree. “According to the progressive report from the five districts in Konkan, crops and horticulture on 9,280 hectares have been damaged. It is on more than 11,000 hectares, after adding up the losses from other divisions and is expected to reach to around 16,000 hectares gradually. According to our estimates, as per the set NDRF forms, the losses are around ₹80 crore, which is expected to increase to ₹250 crore due to the hiked compensation,” said an official from relief and rehabilitation department. A total of 565 fishing boats sustained partial damages, while 90 were fully damaged in coastal districts. Cyclone Tauktae caused damage to horticulture, houses and government buildings and also claimed 20 lives. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray during his visit to Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg had said that the compensation would be announced after the assessment was completed. His office announced on Tuesday that the cyclone-hit districts will be given compensation on the lines of the one given after cyclone Nisarg last year. The state government had disbursed ₹725 crore towards the relief package for cyclone-hit districts last year. The Central government shared ₹268 crore out of it, against the demand of ₹1,065 crore by the state government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cyclone-tauktae-hit-to-get-hiked-compensation-cm-101621970051647.html
26-05-2021||Mumbai||RSS chief must give opinion on bodies floating in Ganga: Raut||Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut appealed to Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat to take a firm stand on dead bodies that washed up on the banks of river Ganga without last rites. Sena leader Sanjay Raut said that the issue is related to Hindutva and is as important as Ram Mandir. Raut also said the ‘toolkit’ and other social media platforms that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) used, to target its political opponents, have now backfired on them.The Sena chief spokesperson’s statements on fatalities in Uttar Pradesh came at a time when the top brass of the RSS and BJP leaders met this week to discuss the party’s image on handling the Covid-19 crisis in the state. The northern state is slated to go for polls in eight-nine months.“We expect him to express strong views on various issues. However, for the last few months, everyone has been silent, especially, when thousands of dead bodies have been found floating in the river of Ganga, without last rites being performed, as per the rituals. The issue is related to Hindutva and as important as Ram Mandir,” Raut said.“People in the country expect that pro-Hindu leaders across the country should clarify their stand on the issue and I appeal to Mohan Bhagwat ji that he should express his views on it,” added Raut.The Sena leader also slammed BJP on the ‘toolkit’ issue and said the issue has not only started a debate in the country but everywhere in the world. “Whether it was toolkit, Twitter or other social media platforms, BJP used all this to target its political opponent earlier. Now it has backfired on them and they have started pressurising them through various ways, like conducting raids,” added Raut. He further said that he is watching and enjoying it. BJP had alleged that the Congress party is using a toolkit to defame the country and Prime Minister Narendra Modi over handling the pandemic.Continuing his attack on Maharashtra Raj Bhavan, Raut said that he is happy that the file containing 12 nominations recommended by the state for the members of the Legislative Council (MLC) is with Raj Bhavan. “I am happy that file is with Raj Bhavan but I will distribute sweets to everyone in Raj Bhavan, whenever the Governor signs the file.” He added that the file is not about Bofors or Rafael or any corruption case but contains names of people recommended unanimously by the state cabinet for MLC posts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/rss-chief-must-give-opinion-on-bodies-floating-in-ganga-raut-101621970050973.html
26-05-2021||Mumbai||Maha says eight global vax bids in; are deals possible?||The Maharashtra government said it has received eight responses to its global tenders for supplying Covid-19 vaccines, the deadline for which ended on Tuesday. Health minister Rajesh Tope said the state has received bids for the supply of vaccines manufactured by Pfizer, Sputnik and AstraZeneca, even as nothing has been spelt out on how the proposals can go forward, considering one, Pfizer has reiterated its stance on dealing with only the Centre and that the vaccine is yet to be cleared for use in the country; two, Astrazeneca already has a pact with the Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII), which is manufacturing the same vaccine under the Covishield brand name; three, a few Indian companies have already got the licence to manufacture the Sputnik vaccine.Against this backdrop, government officials will scrutinise the documents, as they said it is too early to call the tendering process a success because the bids have been submitted by suppliers or middlemen, among several other issues concerning the authenticity of the proposals and an absence of a supply schedule. Pfizer told HT that they have not appointed any supplier. “As stated earlier, during this pandemic phase, across the world, Pfizer is supplying its Covid-19 vaccine only to central Governments and supra-national organizations for deployment in national immunization programs. Neither Pfizer Inc nor any of its affiliates globally, including in India, have authorized anyone to import/market/distribute the Pfizer-BioNTech COVID-19 vaccine. We continue to have ongoing discussions with the Government of India towards making our vaccine available for use nationally,” said a Pfizer Company spokesperson.According to officials, a total of eight firms have responded to the global tenders floated by the state. At least five of them offered to supply the Sputnik vaccines, while three have proposed to supply Pfizer, Astrazeneca and Moderna. Moderna, too, had said it will deal with only the Centre. Officials said they will verify the proposals and also have consultations with the bidders to decide if the bids can be processed further.Earlier, Tope said, “As we all know, Pfizer is a US firm, while Sputnik and Astrazeneca are manufactured by Russian and UK firms respectively. The bidders have even quoted a price for a dose, but have not shared any schedule on supplies, which is the most important thing for us. If they provide us the schedule for vaccine supply, then Maharashtra is ready for procurement.”On May 17, the state government floated an express of interest (EOI) for procuring 50 million doses of Covid-19 vaccines approved by the World Health Organization (WHO) and the United States Food and Drug Administration, and are being manufactured in other countries. In the beginning, the last date for submitting the bids was May 20, which was extended till May 25. By floating global tenders, the state was aiming at importing the doses of the vaccines manufactured by Pfizer, Johnson & Johnson, Zydus Cadila, Sputnik, among others.While Tope seemed optimistic, state officials dealing with the process said that the response received by the state government is not directly from the manufacturing companies. “All those who have submitted the bids are intermediaries. They have also not given any schedule for supply of doses. Following this, we have sent emails to each of them, seeking a schedule for supplies. We will also be holding a virtual meeting with them, seeking all the necessary information before taking any decision on the bids received,” said a senior official, requesting anonymity, as he is not authorised to talk to the media. Each of them is ready to supply 10 million doses. The price quoted by them is in the range of 15 to 18 dollars per dose, which is likely to cost the state somewhere around Rs1,100 to Rs1,400 per dose, he added.Officials said the significant part would be to verify if the claims made by the bidders are backed by the manufacturers and whether they are practically possible. “We will have to consider factors such as the stance taken by companies such as Pfizer and Moderna, that they will deal only with the central government. They are also insisting on indemnity by the central government, which has not been resolved yet. In case of Sputnik, a bunch of Indian companies have got license to manufacture the vaccine and in such a case, they would have to follow Centre’s guidelines on sale of vaccine,” said another official, wishing not to be named. “Besides, we will have to consider whether AstraZeneca can supply in India since the Pune-based Serum Institute of India has an agreement with the former to manufacture and supply the same vaccine under ‘Covishield’ brand name,” said the official.The state government had suspended its inoculation drive for those below 45 years due to non-availability of doses on May 12. It was trying to place orders with Indian and foreign manufacturers to replenish their stocks and reopen all centres.The central government provides free doses for those coming under 45 years and above age group, but for the beneficiaries of the 18-45 age group, the stock has to be procured by the state government. The Indian manufacturers have also not given any confirmed supply schedule to the state, except assurance of improving supplies from June.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maha-says-eight-global-vax-bids-in-are-deals-possible-101621969990971.html
26-05-2021||Other||Seventh Tihar prisoner succumbs to Covid-19||A 37-year-old prisoner at Delhi’s Tihar jail died of Covid-19 related complications on Sunday night -- the seventh prisoner to have died of the infection in the last two months.Jail administration said Lala Bohta,37, an inmate of jail 8/9 tested positive for the infection on May 3, after which he was admitted to the Burari hospital the following day. The officials said, Bohta, was discharged on May 19.“After being discharged,he developed breathing difficulties on May 21 and was referred to DDU Hospital. He passed away on Sunday night,” a senior prison official, who asked not to be named, said.The officer added that Bohta was arrested in a theft case and lodged in the prison on April 9.In the last two weeks, around 3,000 prisoners from Delhi’s jails have been released on interim bail and emergency parole. The high-powered committee, consisting members of the high court, state government, prison department and the Delhi police, on May 7 recommended the release of such prisoners as one of the steps to decongest the prisons . Until last month, Tihar had around 20,500 prisoners against its sanctioned capacity of 10,026.Till date, 1,922 prisoners have been vaccinated within the complex. Of these 50 prisoners above 45 have got second dose of vaccination. Total number of vaccinated prisoners above 45 years is 1,552. Also, at least 370 prisoners between 18 and 45 have been vaccinated, jail officials said.Currently there are 22 prisoners who are infected with the disease. Since April 6, the prison has reported at least 370 cases of Covid-19, the officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/seventh-tihar-prisoner-succumbs-to-covid19-101621969930936.html
26-05-2021||Delhi||Police to train youngsters in primary health care to deal with possible third Covid wave||Hundreds of youngsters will be trained as primary health-care workers over the next few weeks under the Delhi Police’s YUVA initiative to ready them for a possible third wave of Covid-19, Delhi Police said Tuesday. These youngsters will be trained as nursing care assistants, emergency medical technicians, home care assistants and ambulance drivers, among others.“The first batch of 55 youngsters already began receiving training in the north Delhi district from Saturday. We are going to have the youth receive health-care training at most of our 23 YUVA skill centres over the next few days,” said Chinmoy Biswal, Delhi Police spokesperson.Launched in 2017, the Delhi Police’s YUVA initiative has been arranging for employment skills to be imparted to youngsters at police stations so that they stay away from crime. According to the police, 20,000 youngsters have been trained to become skilled in a trade ranging from beauticians to technicians. Devesh Srivastava, special commissioner heading the initiative, said while health care was one of the many skills imparted to them, now it is being scaled up. “We will soon have at least a few hundred trained youngsters over the next few weeks and months to deal with a possible third wave of the pandemic,” he said.Anro Alphonse, deputy commissioner of police (north), said help from health-care organisations and laboratories was sought to train the youngsters. “It is a mix of theoretical as well as practical knowledge,” said Alphonse.Dr Dashvinder Singh, who is associated with NGO Sewa Bharti, which is involved in the training work in north district, said the need for “nursing care assistants” was felt during the second wave.“Patients had oxygen cylinders, but they didn’t know how to use them. We needed people to help with testing oxygen levels, collecting blood samples and reading blood pressure levels, but we were short of hands. The youth we are training will be crucial in coordinating between patients, doctors and nurses,” said Singh.He said that since a large number of these YUVA youngsters will also be trained as home care assistants. “These youngsters can help us deal with the crisis and go on to make a career in health care,” said Singh.Shivani Santosh Kumar, a 20-year-old woman undergoing training and living in Majnu Ka Tilla, said in the first three days, she learnt a few basics of nursing.She is undergoing seven days of initial training and she decides to pursue it further, she’ll be trained at a hospital. “The immediate focus is on a possible third wave of Covid-19, bur I am also looking at a future in the health-care industry,” Shivani said.On Monday, the police commissioner, SN Srivastava, coordinated with a host of stakeholders who will be helping with the training and placement of the youngsters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/police-to-train-youngsters-in-primary-health-care-to-deal-with-possible-third-covid-wave-101621969871021.html
26-05-2021||City||How Odisha's model of disaster preparedness came into being||In October 1999, a super cyclone of massive proportions ripped through the entire Odisha coast snuffing away over 10,000 lives while rendering millions homeless. The 1999 cyclone remains etched in our memories as an apocalyptic failure of the administration as the mighty winds wreaked havoc exposing the extreme vulnerability of people to the whims of nature.In 2013, Cyclone Phailin wreaked havoc in the state affecting over 1.1 million people and causing damages worth ₹4,240 crore.A little more than two years ago, on May 3, 2019, Odisha was hit by cyclone Fani with a sustained windspeed of 180-190 km per hour that claimed 64 lives and caused damages worth over ₹24,176 crore. Termed “rarest of the rare” summer cyclone, Fani could have wreaked huge casualties across the districts of Puri and Khurda but for the massive pre-disaster planning undertaken by the state government. As the state readies for cyclone Yaas, scheduled to make landfall on May 26 noon, its expertise and resilience in dealing with disasters have come in for praise.Home to over 4.6 crore people, Odisha, along the Bay of Bengal, often acts as a magnet for all kinds of natural disasters starting from floods, cyclones to droughts. Between 1891 and 2021, over 100 tropical cyclones are known to have lashed Odisha — the highest number among other states on the coast.Professor Santosh Kumar of the National Institute of Disaster Management, who has studied the post-disaster response of Odisha in the wake of the 1999 super cyclone as well as the 2019 Fani cyclone, said Odisha has come a long way in the last two decades."Odisha has been able to protect its people. That's the most important part. In terms of bringing down the number of lives lost and the people getting affected, the state has done well. This has never happened in one day. Odisha took a conscious decision and gradually built upon its capacity, particularly at the community level. It has successfully started community-level warning, built multi-purpose cyclone shelters under National Cyclone Risk Mitigation Project and built an Early Warning Dissemination System with last-mile connectivity. The capacity to deal with natural disasters has increased tremendously at the community level. If there is a model of preventing largescale deaths in disaster, we can call it the Odisha model," said Prof Kumar.From over 10,000 deaths in the 1999 cyclone, the fatalities have mostly been in double digits in most of the cyclones including the Phailin cyclone in 2013, Hudhud in 2014, Titli in 2018 and Fani in 2019 that swept through Odisha. Experts say timely evacuation due to an early warning system has helped.In October 1999, the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) issued cyclone warnings three days before the cyclone struck the Odisha coast. Compared to that, the prediction for most of the cyclones has been at least 5-6 days prior to its landfall giving adequate time to the administration to take necessary steps."In 1999, the Odisha government learned about the change of path of the super cyclone pretty late and soon after the state’s communication networks collapsed and the situation could no longer be monitored. But now, cyclone warning by the IMD comes pretty early and is accurate with least deviation and observed path and predicted path almost going on the same line. This has not just inspired confidence among the people on the ground but also the officials. This has also prevented a large number of unnecessary evacuation," said prof Kumar.In April 2018, Odisha become the first Indian state to have an early warning system in place for natural disasters such as cyclones and tsunami for people living along its 480 km-long coast. The EWDS is a full-proof communication system to address the existing gap in disseminating disaster warning by strengthening the emergency operation centres in the state. At present, as many as 1,205 villages from 22 blocks in the coastal districts of Balasore, Bhadrak, Jagatsinghpur, Puri and Ganjam have been covered under the EWDS. As part of the system, watchtowers have been set up at 122 locations within 1.5 km from the coastline for dissemination of cyclone or tsunami warning through sirens and mass messaging.“Establishment of EWDS is part of our robust disaster preparedness strategy aiming to save lives on a priority basis," said Kamal Lochan Mishra, executive director of Odisha State Disaster Management Authority.The specially designed multi-purpose cyclone shelters built on high stilts have also ensured that loss of lives is minimal even during sea surges and persistent water-logging. The 1999 cyclone led to massive sea surges with water ingressing up to 20 km, gobbling villages. In 1999, there were just 23 permanent cyclone shelters in 6 coastal districts that could accommodate about 30,000 people. But learning from its failures, Odisha has built a network of such shelters along the coastline."Odisha has a great community outreach system through which people are being reached on time. It now has a network of over 870 cyclone and flood shelters that can house 1000 people each. Over 450 cyclone shelters have maintenance committees where youth have been involved and trained for search and rescue, first aid medical attention, and for providing cyclone warnings," said Deepak Singh, lead disaster risk management specialist at the World Bank.Apart from the decentralized governance institutional set-up, Odisha also has a disaster-specific institutional mechanism. It has established 16 district-level disaster management planning committees which reach out to 155 block-level disaster management planning committees and 22,000 village-level disaster management committees.The state has raised 20 units of Odisha Disaster Rapid Action Force (ODRAF) that comprises highly trained personnel with multi-disaster tackling capabilities. Equipped with 66 types of sophisticated equipment required for disaster management, including road clearing equipment, branch cutter, tree pruner, concrete cutter, RCC cutter, boat, inflatable tower light, generator, forklift, hydraulic rescue kit, collapse structure search & rescue (CSSR) kit, medical first responder (MFR) kit, ambulance, manikin, high discharge submersible pump, flexi tent, flexi water tank, mountaineering equipment, commando searchlight, diving equipment set, breathing apparatus with a gas mask and chemical cartridge, the force is well-trained in tackling floods, building collapses, cyclones, biological and nuclear disasters.The proliferation of TV and mobile phones have made people aware of cyclones much before it makes landfall. In 1999, the chief secretary did not have a mobile phone and no second line of communications were kept ready. There was no Internet connection in the Odisha secretariat in 1999.Twenty-two years ago, there were not many pucca houses along the coast compared to 2021 when the state government has converted a large number of these houses to pucca ones under state-specific schemes like Biju Pucca Ghar Yojana, Mo Kudia or central schemes like Pradhan Mantri Grameen Awas Yojana. In 1999, the panchayats did not stock basic rations like rice, pulses, jaggery and kerosene while in subsequent disasters all panchayats stock basic rations."Like all previous disasters, our goal is not to allow a single person to die. Zero casualty remains our goal," said Pradip Jena, special relief commissioner of Odisha.However, Odisha has fallen short in its post-disaster response as well as preventing large scale damages to its infrastructure and primary sector like agriculture, fisheries and animal husbandry.When Cyclone Fani struck Odisha coast, the state suffered losses worth ₹8,138 crore in the power sector due to the snapping of thousands of kilometres of power lines and electrical towers throwing several parts of the cyclone-affected area into darkness for more than two months. More than 5,500 base transceiver stations of various mobile telecom companies were damaged in the cyclone.The damage to the telecom BTS IN cities of Puri, Bhubaneswar, and Cuttack led to mobile connectivity outage in 80% of areas across the three cities and resulted in disconnecting millions of users, including citizens, government officials and first responders, for weeks. Odisha State Wide Area Network, which was set up to connect the state with 30 district headquarters and 284 block headquarters and 61 horizontal offices through data, video and voice communications also failed.Fani hit the housing sector the hardest, damaging nearly 3.62 lakh units of houses across the 14 districts. As per an estimate by the state government, the combined economic losses to the state from the last 3 cyclones - Phailin, Titli, and Fani - was around ₹40,474 crore."Odisha needs to protect its infrastructure from getting hit in future disasters. Both central and state government infrastructures have been repeatedly lost during cyclones. The agriculture and horticulture sector have to be made resilient to such routine disasters. Odisha would hopefully become a model state in that," said Prof Kumar.Last 5 cyclones in OdishaOctober 2013: Extremely severe cyclonic storm Phailin crossed Odisha coast at Gopalpur, accompanied by a storm surge of 5 feet and heavy rainfall. Death toll- 59October 2014: Extremely severe cyclonic storm Hudhud made landfall near Vishakhapatnam and then passed through Odisha. Death toll- 0October 2018: Very severe cyclonic storm Titli made landfall at Srikakulam in Andhra Pradesh but changed course to wreak much damage in interior districts of Odisha. Death toll-77May 2019: Very severe cyclonic storm Fani made landfall at Puri. Death toll-89May 2020: Severe cyclonic storm Amphan made landfall at Sundarbans. Death toll-3||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cyclone-yaas-how-odisha-s-model-of-disaster-preparedness-came-into-being-101621969683964.html
26-05-2021||Delhi||Tauktae made this May the rainiest in Delhi in 13 years: IMD||The 144.8mm of rain that Delhi received so far this May, is the highest for the month in at least the past 13 years, according to India Meteorological Department (IMD). The last time Delhi saw more rain in May was in 2008 when it recorded 165mm of rain in the entire month.Over 119mm of incessant rain, induced by the remnants of Cyclone Tauktae and a western disturbance, had lashed Delhi in the 24 hours beginning 8.30am Wednesday till 8.30am Thursday last week, breaking the capital’s all-time 24-hour rainfall record for the month of May.“Two main events this month contributed towards that record rainfall. We received a substantial amount of rain on account of Cyclone Tauktae in one day. Subsequently, there was another spell of rain on account of a western disturbance,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the IMD’s regional forecasting centre.Srivastava said while the city had received rain on account of a number of western disturbances this month, rainfall in the aftermath of the cyclone was primarily the major contributor towards the monthly rainfall quota.“We also saw rain on account of western disturbances but the major share of rainfall was contributed by the moderate rainfall we received in the aftermath of the cyclone. This was followed by another spell of rain. Prior to that, the highest single-day rain record in May was in 2008,” said Srivastava.He said since no further rain is predicted in the coming week, the recorded rainfall could be considered as the reading for the month.The Safdarjung observatory, whose readings are taken as representative of the whole city, had recorded 21.1mm of rain in May last year. The recorded rainfall for the month of May stood at 26.9mm in 2019 and 24.2mm in 2018. In the years preceding that, rainfall received stood at 40.5mm in 2017, 24.3mm in 2016, 3.1mm in 2015, and 100.2mm in 2014, as per the IMD data.Srivastava said unlike the past few years, the Capital had not recorded any heatwave days this May so far. Meteorologists declare a heatwave when the maximum temperature for a location in the plains crosses 40 degrees Celsius. In the hills, the threshold temperature is 30 degrees Celsius. Also, when the departure in the maximum day temperature is 4.5 degrees to 6.5 degrees above normal, a heatwave is declared.“The temperature is not expected to cross 44 degrees Celsius. Unless that happens, there will be no heatwave. As many as five western disturbances, along with the impact of the cyclone, have kept away heatwave conditions so far,” said Srivastava.The minimum temperature in Delhi on Tuesday was 23 degrees Celsius, two degrees more than the previous day’s 21.2 degrees Celsius. The maximum temperature was 39.4 degrees Celsius, three degrees more than Monday’s reading of 36 degrees. As per the IMD’s weekly forecast, the maximum temperature will hover around 40 degrees Celsius while the minimum temperature is expected to stay at 24 degrees Celsius. Clear skies will prevail on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/tauktae-made-this-may-the-rainiest-in-delhi-in-13-years-imd-101621969812876.html
26-05-2021||Other||Delhi: Licences of 25 chemist shops suspended for selling Covid drugs without prescription||Delhi government’s drugs control department has suspended the licences of 25 drug stores and initiated action against 12 others for selling medicine used in the treatment of Covid-19 without prescriptions. Department officials said they sent decoy customers to various stores across the city during drives conducted this month to purchase Ivermectin, antibiotics like azithromycin, and steroids to check if the medicines were being sold without a doctor’s prescription. The action comes when cases of secondary mucormycosis or black fungus are on the rise, which doctors are attributing to compromised immunity due to indiscriminate use of steroids in patients who have recovered from Covid , besides other factors such as diabetes.  “After streamlining the availability of medicines such as remdesivir and tocilizumab during the peak of Covid wave, we focussed on the ones that are usually readily available such as ivermectin, antibiotics and steroids. These drugs, however, should not be given without a doctor’s prescription. In view of the pandemic, we took quick action and suspended the licences of 25 chemist shops within three days, after giving them a day to respond to the show cause notices,” said A K Nasa, head of Delhi’s drug control office. The licences of the 25 drug stores were suspended after they sold ivermectin and antibiotics to the decoy customers without prescription on May 14 and 15. The drugs come under schedule H and H1 of the Drugs and Cosmetics Act, that requires that the retailers sell it only on prescription from registered medical practitioners and maintain records of their sale. Showcause notices have been sent to 12 other drug stores which were found selling steroids such as dexamethasone and budesonide without prescriptions on May 17 and 21. Their licences are also likely to be suspended. Last Saturday, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) ordered all pharmacies across the city to display the stock position and MRP of eight medicines such as Ivermectin, Doxycycline, Dexamethosone that are used for the treatment of Covid-19. “Now we will conduct regular drives to see whether this is being followed,” said Nasa. Last year, when there was a shortage of remdesivir as cases of Covid-19 started increasing, the drugs control department stationed its inspectors with the seven stockists in the city to ensure people in need get it after submitting documents like Aadhaar, doctor’s prescription, and a positive Covid-19 report. This, however, could not be done during the current wave because of the large number of cases and huge demand for the medicine. “We decided to create a portal to make the process transparent. The suppliers were told to upload details of available stock of remdesivir as per Centre’s allocation on the portal and details of which stockist was given how many vials of the injection. Then, the stockists had to upload how many vials they received and which hospitals they sold to. The hospitals were also asked to enter details of patients who were given the medicine. This way, no one could hoard the medicines or sell it directly to people. Now, there is good availability of the medicine in Delhi,” said Nasa. To be sure, the number of new Covid-19 cases has also reduced from over 28,000 at the peak of the fourth wave of Covid 19 on April 20 to around 1,500 cases currently. For tocilizumab, the government has set up a technical expert committee that goes through every request raised by hospitals to ensure that the drug is not overused or misused. The drugs control department then ensures the availability of the medicine to the respective hospitals through its list of stockists.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-licences-of-25-chemist-shops-suspended-for-selling-covid-drugs-without-prescription-101621969692246.html
26-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt starts disbursing aid of ₹5K for para transit drivers||The Delhi government on Tuesday started disbursing a one-time financial assistance of ₹5,000 to auto, taxi and e-rickshaw drivers whose livelihood has been affected by the ongoing lockdown. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said the money will be directly credited in the bank accounts of 151,000 such drivers in Delhi by Tuesday night. Earlier this month, Kejriwal had announced the one-time financial assistance to all PSV (public service vehicle) badge and permit holders of para transit vehicles, including auto-rickshaws, e-rickshaws, taxis, ‘phatphat sewa’, eco-friendly sewa, gramin sewa and maxi cabs. Delhi currently has over 280,000 PSV badge holders and 190,000 permit holders who are eligible to apply for the grant, officials said. Para transit vehicle drivers who hold driving licence and PSV badge that are valid as on February 1, 2020, are eligible to receive the financial assistance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-starts-disbursing-aid-of-5k-for-para-transit-drivers-101621969631482.html
26-05-2021||Delhi||AAP, BJP spar over textbooks for primary students||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Tuesday accused the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-ruled municipal corporations of Delhi (MCDs) of causing delay in placing orders and distributing books to students enrolled in primary schools. The BJP dismissed the allegation and said the AAP-led Delhi government is causing the delay.“The BJP-ruled MCDs have not yet started the tendering process or begun the procurement of books for seven lakh students in their primary schools this academic year. In 2020, the MCD provided the books to their students after a nine-month delay and in 2019, there was a delay of eight months. The AAP demands that the BJP ruled MCD should immediately, within 15-20 days, start the tendering, procuring and distribution process of books,” Durgesh Pathak, AAP leader in charge of municipal affairs.The three MCDs in Delhi collectively have around 1,660 primary schools, with around 740,000 students enrolled with them, show MCD records.Delhi BJP spokesperson Parveen Shankar Kapoor said, “The allegations are baseless. Pathak should know that MCDs never float a tender for procuring textbooks; they are procured and provided to MCDs by the Delhi government’s Delhi Bureau of Text Books which has not delivered the books till date. The payment for textbooks too comes from the government’s Sarv Shiksha Abhiyan; that came last week after a delay of 46 days.”While the AAP is in charge of the Delhi government, the BJP rules the three MCDs. Delhi goes to municipal polls next year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/aap-bjp-spar-over-textbooks-for-primary-students-101621969630923.html
26-05-2021||Other||No Covaxin stock for 45-plus beneficiaries: Delhi govt||New Delhi: The Delhi government on Tuesday said that its vaccine centres for the 45-plus age group have run out of Covaxin stock. “Delhi government has run out of both Covaxin and Covishield doses for the 18-45 age group. Now, government centres have also run out of Covaxin doses for the 45-plus age group, even though centres offering Covishield doses to people aged 45 and above will continue to function. We have around 13 days’ stock of Covishield for this beneficiary group,” said Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) legislator Atishi, while reading out the government’s vaccine bulletin on Tuesday in a live-streamed video.For the last one week, Delhi government-run vaccine centres offering Covaxin were only entertaining people coming for the second dose of the vaccine in the light of a shortage and no assurance of supplies from the central government for the remaining days in the month.Atishi on Tuesday also urged the central government to give approval to more Covid-19 vaccines and direct domestic manufacturers to further scale up production. “Developed countries are using vaccines from Pfizer, Johnson and Johnson, Moderna, etc. The Indian government is yet to give approval to these vaccines. We request them to expedite the approval process so that more vaccines can be imported. Also, the government should direct domestic manufacturers to scale up production. We need to increase vaccine coverage at the earliest,” said Atishi.To be sure, private hospitals in the city have their independent stocks for both 18-45 and 45-plus beneficiary groups.DRIVE-THROUGH VACCINE CENTREThe national capital will get its first drive-through vaccination centre at the Aakash Healthcare Super Specialty Hospital in Dwarka on Wednesday.Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal will inaugurate the centre, said the hospital in a press statement, adding: “It will be a first-of-its-kind association between the Government of NCT of Delhi and a Corporate Hospital in the National Capital.”So far, government records said, 5.14 million doses of Covid-19 vaccines have been administered in Delhi.(ends)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/no-covaxin-stock-for-45-plus-beneficiaries-delhi-govt-101621969512163.html
26-05-2021||Other||Delhi reports fewest Covid deaths since mid-April||New Delhi: Delhi reported 156 fatalities due to Covid-19 on Tuesday-- the lowest single-day death toll since mid-April, when the cases of the viral infection shot up significantly in what was the Capital’s deadliest surge with 28,400 cases logged on April 20. The toll peaked 14 days later with 448 deaths reported in a single day on May 3. So far, 23,565 people have died of Covid-19 in the city, as per the government’s daily health bulletin, which also showed 1,568 new infections on Tuesday. The number of cases dipped below the 10,000-mark 12 days ago. “The deaths are likely to remain high for nearly two weeks even after the cases go down because that is the timeline of Covid-19. Those who were critically ill during the peak of the infection are still admitted in the hospital. It takes a patient admitted to the ICU nearly three weeks to recover and those on ventilators nearly four weeks. And, some of them will continue to die,” said Dr Sumit Ray, critical care specialist and medical superintendent of Holy Family hospital. However, with the number of cases going down and a high number of deaths being reported, the seven-day rolling average case fatality ratio (CFR) – proportion of deaths among those who test positive over the last seven days – has shot up to 7.96%. The CFR has never been this high since the first wave of the pandemic in June-July last year. Even when 437 fatalities were added to the city’s death toll on June 16 last year as Delhi reconciled its mortality figures, the seven-day rolling average CFR was 6.97%. However, the cumulative CFR – calculated on the basis of total cases and deaths – has remained low at 1.66% on Tuesday compared to 4.11% on June 16. This is still higher than the national average of nearly 1.1%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-reports-fewest-covid-deaths-since-midapril-101621969511565.html
26-05-2021||Other||Delhi govt serves notice to 74 private hospitals for not updating bed status on app||New Delhi: The Delhi government has served show cause notices to 74 private hospitals and nursing homes on Tuesday for not uploading the status of beds earmarked for Covid-19 regularly on the Delhi Corona app. Notices have been served to both the Max hospitals in Saket, VIMHANS, and Primus among others. Maximum hospitals that have been served notices are those with 100 beds or less, according to a Delhi government official. “Action will be taken depending on the hospitals’ responses,” the official said. On May 7, the government ordered all hospitals, including the ones run by the Delhi government, were asked to update the information on the application every two hours to ensure that the information could be used by those looking for beds. The CM also said that no calls on the helpline should be missed. The app was developed by the government to inform people about the real-time availability of beds in June last year before Delhi saw its first surge in the cases of the viral infection. Along with the bed status, now the application also displays the amount of oxygen the hospitals have in stock after the city faced an oxygen crisis in April-end. Max and Primus hospitals were contacted, but no response was received. Dr Ubaid Hamid, medical director of VIMHANS hospitals, said, “We haven’t received the official notice but it has been communicated to us through WhatsApp. I am not sure whether the notice was meant for us because the address stated is different. We have been updating the app regularly, except on two days when the person in-charge took a leave after losing their brother who was also undergoing treatment at the hospital.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-govt-serves-notice-to-74-private-hospitals-for-not-updating-bed-status-on-app-101621969451508.html
26-05-2021||Other||Publicise Covid helplines widely, HC tells Centre and Delhi govt||New Delhi: The Delhi high court on Tuesday directed the Centre and the Delhi government to give wide publicity to Covid-19 helplines to inform people about facilities for testing, treatment and mental health issues arising from pandemic remarking that they were “lagging behind” on this.A bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh said the helpline numbers should be widely circulated through print and audio visual medium daily and a corner or column on a page could be dedicated for these helplines in the newspapers.“In newspapers, one does not find these inserts on a daily basis. These things should be there in the papers every day. Fix a corner or column, may be on page 1 or page 3. Some column on a page should be dedicated to it daily so that people know where to go when they need it. People would be habituated. This is where you are lagging behind,” the bench said.“As we grew up, we used to see the amount of advertisement, propaganda for family planning ‘hum do humare do’. It was on buses, newspapers, it was everywhere and it worked. We just have to keep bombarding people with information. This has to be regular exercise,” it said.“You are playing a message which was made 6 months ago. Situation has changed. What is the difficulty? You should make a new ringtone and change it. You have to be agile on your feet,” the bench remarked.“Helpline numbers have not been broadcast as frequently and as effectively it should have been done on a daily basis. Their publication on one or the other medium is not sufficient. We have earlier as well emphasised this and we are compelled to once again take this observation since there is not much ground covered on this aspect”.“We again direct the Union of India and Delhi government to undertake publication of all relevant helpline numbers and information through all audio video and print mediums on continuous and daily basis to educate people of the facilities created by the State for testing, treatment and mental health issues arising out of Covid-19 pandemic,” it said.The observations and directions came after amicus curiae senior advocate Rajshekhar Rao, told the court that it would be helpful if the government could consider publicising more about the helpline numbers and other data in newspapers or through any other medium. The court was hearing a plea by lawyer-petitioner Rakesh Malhotra, who along with several hospitals sought directions to the Centre and the Delhi government for better facilities and continuous supply of oxygen in the hospitals and nursing homes of the city.Senior advocate Rahul Mehra suggested that a central helpline could be created by both the governments as there is a lot of misinformation on social media.Central government standing counsel Kirtiman Singh assured the court that measures would be taken for daily publication. Questioning the Centre, the court said, “AIR, Doordarshan they are all your mediums. Please show us how frequently have you done it on Doordarshan? I have watched Doordarshan and I can say that I haven’t seen anything at all….You can employ people for making such content. Looking at the enormity of the problem, war makes propaganda, no? What is the fatigue?”Black fungus medicineDuring the proceedings, the bench also asked Ganga Ram Hospital to place before it the particulars of all black fungus patients treated at the hospital and how the injections were distributed to them.The order came on the plea by a man who was seeking directions to the Delhi government and Ganga Ram hospital to give Ampohtericin-B for his treatment.On court’s direction, one of the doctors of the hospital joined the proceedings and informed them that they don’t have only one patient but many and they have to administer the medicine as per the patient’s condition and requirement and that they have distributed all the 360 vials.The doctor said currently he was not having the data of patients being treated at the hospital, however, he will give the details on Thursday.Additional standing counsel of the Delhi government, advocate Satyakam told the court that the Delhi government does not have the medicine and as soon they are supplied by the Centre, it will be immediately distributed to the hospital.Appearing for the petitioner, advocate and his granddaughter, Iqra Khalid told the court that even though some vials have been given, he needs more and may lose and eye. The court asked the authorities to look into the matter and see if something can be done.The court said if any more vials are available with the hospital, it should be given to the woman lawyer’s grandfather, “whose eye has swollen since morning and is in great pain”.Plea for compensationThe bench also asked the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) and Delhi government to respond to a plea seeking compensation for the parents and wife of a Covid-19 patient who died allegedly due to want of medical attention.It asked Delhi government’s Rao Tula Ram Hospital to respond to the plea which claimed that the victim’s condition was critical and his oxygen level was very low, still the doctor of the hospital allegedly did not recommended him for admission and due to the medical practitioner’s negligence, the man died while waiting for an ambulance.The family sought an appropriate compensation for the loss of life of the deceased due to complete mismanagement and criminal negligence of the authorities.Senior advocate Mehra informed the court that the state government is proposing to give ex gratia relief of ₹50,000 each to families of Covid-19 victims and that the proposal will be placed before the cabinet next week.The court was hearing the petition filed by the parents and wife of Naveen, who died of Covid-19 on the intervening night of April 26-27 allegedly due to want of medical attention and doctor’s negligence.MRP of oxygen concentratorsThe Centre also informed the court that pricing authority NPPA has initiated the process to fix a formula to determine the MRP of oxygen concentrators, needed for Covid-19 treatment, as people were being charged exorbitantly. The process for fixing the formula for MRP is likely to be concluded and the court will be informed about the development on May 31, the Centre said.Justice Sanghi observed that the pricing formula was important as most of the manufacturers were not putting MRP or maximum retail price on oxygen concentrators and were not readily available in shops.“It is not that it is available at Khan Market, it is through the back door only that people have been able to secure oxygen concentrators,” he said.In a lighter vein, Justice Singh added “actually this time it was available only at Khan Market”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/publicise-covid-helplines-widely-hc-tells-centre-and-delhi-govt-101621969450954.html
26-05-2021||Other||Delhi airport operates 100 Covid relief flights in one month||New Delhi: The Delhi airport has handled at least 100 Covid relief flights in the past 29 days. The 100th flight on Tuesday brought about 10 metric tonnes of medical aid from Russia, the airport operator said. During this period, the Indira Gandhi International airport successfully handled some of the largest military and commercial aircrafts, which include Antonov-124, C-130 Globemasters and IL-76 among other freighters, it said. The airport operator, DIAL (Delhi International Airport Ltd) said on Tuesday that during the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic, the airport has so far has handled 100 Covid-19 relief flights in the past 29 days which brought in aid from over 36 countries. “Between April 27 and May 25 the Delhi Airport handled 1,750 metric tons of relief material that arrived from countries such as the US, the UK, Canada, Ireland, Germany, France, Austria, Belgium, Russia, Spain etc. During this period, some of the largest military and commercial aircrafts like the Antonov-124 and C-130 Globemaster were also successfully handled. These planes brought in consignments of various relief materials such as oxygen generating plants, oxygen generators, concentrators and cylinders and live saving drugs,” DIAL said in a statement. Videh Kumar Jaipuriar, CEO, DIAL said the handling of 100 COVID relief flights in less than a month has been possible due to the airport’s largest cargo network in the country with different parts of the world and the airport’s state of the art cargo handling facilities. “Our teams are working 24x7 to provide uninterrupted services and ensure consignments are processed and cleared in the least possible time,” he said. The airport operator said it is also being ensured that relief flights get priority in landing and parking at cargo bays to make sure that consignments are processed and cleared in the least possible time. “All the material is brought to JEEVODAY warehouse after customs clearance, where they are sorted and further distributed to other parts of the country by government agency HLL as per the distribution plan. Distribution is done immediately after it is brought to the warehouse. The relief materials were received by Indian Red Cross Society at Delhi,” DIAL said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-airport-operates-100-covid-relief-flights-in-one-month-101621969390894.html
26-05-2021||Chandigarh||Five private hospitals put on notice for overcharging in Chandigarh||The Chandigarh health department has issued notices to at least five private hospitals for overcharging Covid-19 patients for treatment during the peak of pandemic.Dr Amandeep Kang, director, health department, said the notices have been issued as part of an ongoing inquiry into overcharging complaints received from patients.The hospitals allegedly found fleecing the patients are Eden, Healing Touch, Apollo, Kare Partner and Mukut, said officials. In the notices, the hospitals have been asked to respond as to why the treatment rates prescribed by the administration were not followed.“The hospitals have been given a period of one week to respond to the notices. We had previously asked them to refund the excess amount charged from patients,” said Dr Kang.According to the complaints, private hospitals were allegedly charging extra for oxygen and medicine even as these are part of the package notified by the UT administration.Dr Sanjay Bansal, owner of Eden Hospital, said that at the time of crisis, they were receiving the life saving drugs at a high cost. “Our main motive was to save the life of patients, and it can be due to this reason that the rates were not in line with packages prescribed,” he said. Despite the authorities in Chandigarh, Panchkula and Mohali capping the charges for private hospitals treating Covid-19 patients, they have been receiving complaints of fleecing. While the owner of a Zirakpur private hospital was booked and the 104 helpline number was launched to complain in Mohali, a state-level probe was ordered against a Panchkula-based hospital after the Haryana speaker and local MLA Gian Chand Gupta cited three such cases and wrote to Haryana health minister Anil Vij. Private hospital owners in Chandigarh have also demanded a hike in Covid treatment charges.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/five-private-hospitals-put-on-notice-for-overcharging-in-chandigarh-101621969151671.html
26-05-2021||Lucknow||Akhilesh lashes out at BJP for ‘planning poll strategy amid pandemic’||: Samajwadi Party (SP) chief Akhilesh Yadav on Tuesday slammed the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), describing it as “audacious and shameless” for having held a meeting of top leadership to strategise for the coming UP Assembly polls. In a statement, Akhilesh said, “People are dying of Corona and black fungus due to government’s lack of administrative acumen and negligence; even last rites aren’t possible in many cases. Still, the party is doing a brainstorming with the Prime Minister and BJP state leadership for preparing a strategy for the polls (2022 UP assembly elections). We have never seen such a display of shamelessness in democracy.” There have been news reports that top BJP-RSS (Rashtriya Swayamasewak Sangh) leadership had been in a huddle in Delhi over the forthcoming UP assembly elections. Akhilesh said: “All that the BJP is bothered about is selfish politics and fake publicity. It is least bothered about peoples’ lives or livelihood and is focused on political power. Would people of UP forget all this? Anyways, the people in the state have resolved to dislodge BJP in 2022 and they will get relief when SP government returns.” He said: “There is no let-up in Covid and black fungus death yet. In rural areas, the situation is worst, but in the state capital and big cities patients were suffering and dying because of lack of life-saving medicines. The CM is hopping from place to place making tall claims, completely oblivious to the grim situation at home.” He said that those harping on ‘saving lives and livelihood’ were actually endangering both. The condition of daily wagers is deteriorating, the poor, labourers, vendors, and small traders are the worst hit, he said. “For the last one month prices of essential food items have shot up. Oil, vegetable prices have gone up multifold. Prices of petrol, diesel, cooking gas have increased, and household budgets have gone haywire. Animal farmers are facing problems regarding feed and fodder, milk consumption has been badly hit,” he said. “Small scale industries have begun retrenching employees, daily wagers aren’t getting employment, the books-notebooks-stationery businesses have collapsed, and textile or footwear industry too is out of business,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/akhilesh-lashes-out-at-bjp-for-planning-poll-strategy-amid-pandemic-101621969092275.html
26-05-2021||Other||IITR-Lucknow team collects Ganga water sample in Prayagraj||: A team from Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR)-Indian Institute of Toxicology Research (IITR), Lucknow collected water samples of the Ganga from various ghats of Sangam city, on Monday. The team from IITR has collected river water samples from different locations in Kanpur and Varanasi also. “The Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board (UPPCB) requested us to collect the samples from various locations along the river and analyse the specimens against different parameters which throw light on the quality of water in any river”, said chief scientist of CSIR-IITR, Lucknow, KC Khulbe. “Now that the samples have been collected by our team members, we would be finding out the results in a month,” he added. After reaching Prayagraj, the team collected samples from Shringverpur ghat, one of the sites where bodies were buried on the banks. After taking water samples from the ghat, the team of scientists reached the Phaphamau ghat. They took sample of water of the Ganga from around the sites where bodies were buried on the edge. The team members were wearing PPE kits for their own safety during the exercise. Although the team members, who collected the water samples refused to comment on the reason for collection of the river water samples, but experts who have worked in the field of ground water and UP Pollution Control Board claim that the water is being tested in the backdrop of the mass burial points spotted besides the banks. “Although there are bodies buried at Phaphamau and Shringverpur ghats but there is no need to panic as Ganga water is still fine. However, analysis of Ganga water samples is a welcome step, and the result would further make the picture clear” said executive engineer, irrigation department, SK Singh. Former regional officer of UP Pollution Control Board, Mohd Sikander said that groundwater was found on the banks near Ganga just below two feet. If bodies are buried on the river edge, the groundwater may get infected, and this infected groundwater could get mixed with the flow of the Ganga and can pollute it too.Officer in-charge of UP Pollution Control Board (UPPCB), Prayagraj Pradeep Vishwakarma said, “The samples have been collected to check the quality of water of the river and I can comment only after getting the final results”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/iitrlucknow-team-collects-ganga-water-sample-in-prayagraj-101621968850998.html
26-05-2021||Lucknow||Foundation work of Ram Mandir expedited||Filling work of Ram Mandir foundation in Ayodhya has been expedited. Larsen and Toubro, which is carrying out the construction work, on Monday started laying fifth layer of the temple’s foundation.During the ongoing filling process, around 44 layers of 300 mm each will be laid. Thereafter, each layer will be compressed with simple and vibrating rollers. Last month, the Ram Mandir Construction Committee started the filling work with the target of completing 1.25 lakh cubic metre dug-up ground at Ram Janmabhoomi by the end of September.The Tata Consulting Engineers is working as project management consultant and is assisting the Larsen and Toubro in the constructions work. According to Sri Ram Janmabhoomi Tirath Kshetra Trust, the Larsen and Toubro has appointed Balaji Construction Company of Rajasthan as its assisting partner to complete the foundation work at the earliest. The Larsen and Toubro has also increased its working hours from eight to 12.The temple’s foundation, which will be 107 feet above the sea level, is being made of layers of stones. For filling the temple’s foundation, crushed stone (gitti) of Banda, coarse sand, fly ash and asbestos are being used.“We want to complete maximum work of Ram Mandir’s foundation before the onset of monsoon. The construction company has also increased its working hours to finish foundation work at the earliest,” said a member of the Trust.Nripendra Misra, chairman of the Trust, is taking updates of the construction work from New Delhi where he resides. Trust’s general secretary Champat Rai keeps Misra updated of all development and progress in work.Misra also regularly visits Ayodhya and stays back in town for two-three days and reviews progress of construction work of Ram Mandir. Construction work of Ram Mandir began on August 5 last year after Prime Minister Narendra Modi presided over its Bhoomi Pujan in Ayodhya.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/foundation-work-of-ram-mandir-expedited-101621968402822.html
26-05-2021||Chandigarh||Positivity rate recorded below 10% across Chandigarh tricity||Amid a receding second wave, the daily positivity rate was recorded below 10% across the tricity on Tuesday.Positivity rate is the true indicator of the growth or decline in the spread of an infection, as it is the proportion of people testing positive among all those sampled. It was recorded at 8.6% in Chandigarh, 9% in Mohali and 9.6% in Panchkula, which means of every 100 people tested for Covid-19 less than 10 were found infected on Tuesday. During the peak of the second wave, it had remained around 20-25%. Meanwhile, recovery rate has jumped above 90% across the tricity, while cumulative active case load stands at 10,548, down from the peak of 24,201 couple of weeks back.In terms of cases, the tricity saw an uptick from Monday’s 611 to 808 on Tuesday, while there was a minor decline in daily fatalities from 20 to 17. Mohali, which has been the worst hit, reported 376 cases and nine deaths, followed by 285 cases and five casualties in Chandigarh, and 174 infections and three deaths in Panchkula.“Positivity rate has seen a steep decline after a steep rise in May. It is expected to come down further by the end of the month,” said Chandigarh health secretary Arun Gupta. “Even though there is a fluctuation in the number of tests due to low demand now, we are not seeing a rise in positivity rate, which suggests that infection spread has declined.” While testing levels have been in the range of 3,000 to 4,000 daily, positivity rate has been between 8% and 10% in the past four days in Chandigarh, having touched 28% on May 12. In fact, the central government had time and again flagged Chandigarh’s high positivity rate.Even Mohali has recorded less than 10% positivity rate four times in the past five days. It had once touched 25%. “Sampling in the district has not decreased and we have ensured round-the-clock availability of a team at the district hospital with two dedicated mobile teams for the needy,” said Mohali civil surgeon Dr Adarsh Pal Kaur.Mohali deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan attributed the downward trend to the lockdown and night curfew. “We are hoping it will continue. I urge people to follow the Covid-19 guidelines by wearing masks and maintaining social distance.” Dr Jasjeet Kaur, civil surgeon, Panchkula, said the second wave, which started in March, is moving towards an end as the district has started seeing a decline in cases in the past four days. “People should not lower their guard as the behaviour of the new mutant variants is not easy to predict.”“In epidemics we have lull and stormy periods. We have passed this stormy period once again and reached the lull period,” said Dr Rajesh Kumar, former head of community medicine and school of public health, PGIMER. “As a society, we are learning to remain afloat during the lull periods by taking precautions and in the stormy period by imposing restrictions. The longer we are able to take corrective steps, the longer the lull period remains.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/positivity-rate-recorded-below-10-across-chandigarh-tricity-101621968792290.html
26-05-2021||Lucknow||IIT-K student succumbs to black fungus||A PhD student at the Indian Institute of Technology, Kanpur (IIT-K) succumbed to mucormycosis or black fungus, a post Covid-19 complication, at the Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGIMS) in Lucknow on Tuesday morning.“Kavindra Kumar Chaturvedi, 28, a PhD student in the department of Aerospace Engineering at IIT-Kanpur succumbed to mucormycosis,” tweeted IITK director, Abhay Karandikar.“Sad day today! We lost a bright and promising student. A resident of Faizabad, Kavindra succumbed to mucormycosis as post Covid19 related complication. He was admitted to SGPGI Lucknow,” IITK director tweeted. “We did everything to save him including arranging medicines through a board member (an IITK alumnus) of a pharmaceutical company but despite best efforts by his doctors, family, friends and the institute, he could not be saved,” director tweeted.Kavindra was enrolled in PhD in 2019 and got married in September 2020. His wife is a homemaker. He postgraduated from MNNIT, Allahabad. He was a bright and promising student, said Girish Pant, PRO, IIT-K.According to PGI officials the patient was operated to control spread of black fungus within 48 hours. “But he suffered brain infarction due to Covid and died on Tuesday morning,” said Prof Amit Keshri, nodal officer of the 12-member committee of doctors on Covid cases associated with mucormycosis.This was the first casualty among students at IIT-K. There are 8300 students on campus.“The second wave of Covid19 has been terrible. Personally, I have lost friends and relatives, but loss of a young student is very devastating,” IITK director said.IIT-K has started a Covid-19 relief fund to provide financial aid to students who are facing medical emergencies.“The campus community has been helping these students on an individual basis too. We have been seeing an increase in the number of requests seeking financial aid over the last few days and it’s likely to go up in near future,” said dean, resources and alumni, Jayant K Singh.The institute has also created a portal where students and supporting staff can submit their applications with necessary documents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/iitk-student-succumbs-to-black-fungus-101621968730918.html
26-05-2021||Chandigarh||Traffic cops rescue two labourers buried under soil heap in Chandigarh||The traffic police rescued two labourers, who were buried under a heap of soil, while working near the Airport Light Point on Tuesday. The workers were working underground when the heap of soil fell on them around 6:30pm. The labourers were facing difficulty in breathing. A team of four traffic cops, including constable Sukhbinder Kumar, constable Subhash, assistant sub inspector Bhoop Singh and head constable Karambir reached the spot and rescued them. The UT police, Police Control Room and fire brigade also reached the spot. The labourers were rushed for treatment and are now stable.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/traffic-cops-rescue-two-labourers-buried-under-soil-heap-in-chandigarh-101621968671451.html
26-05-2021||Chandigarh||Don’t pay charges to informal garbage collectors, says Chandigarh MC||The Chandigarh municipal corporation on Tuesday asked the city residents to pay garbage collection charges only to its representatives and not to informal cart-based waste lifters. The civic body in a public notice stated: “If any resident pays the waste collection charges to the door-to-door collector, then it will be sole liability of the resident and the amount paid will not be adjusted by the municipal corporation.”The MC started door-to-door garbage collection project through motorised vehicles in Sector 1 to 30 in December last year, and extended it to other areas in March and April. The civic body is presently collecting waste collection charges through its drivers using point-of-sale (POS) machines, and plans to add the charges to water bills in a couple of months. Residents have repeatedly raised concerns over the issue, especially in areas where both MC vehicles and cart-based collectors are turning up. “There is total chaos because the MC is not doing its work. If cart-based collectors are coming and collecting garbage in place of MC vehicles, then why shouldn’t residents pay them? The MC should make it clear on the ground and not just on paper,” said Baljinder Singh Bittu, chairman, Federation of Sector Welfare Associations of Chandigarh, adding that the MC vehicles don’t come regularly.RK Garg, president, Second Innings Association, said: “It is the responsibility of the MC to resolve this issue rather than put all the burden on residents. It is between the MC and collectors. Residents will pay to the service provider.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dont-pay-charges-to-informal-garbage-collectors-says-chandigarh-mc-101621968611466.html
26-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra to get 60k vials of black fungus medicine||State health minister Rajesh Tope on Tuesday notified mucormycosis under the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897. The state is also ready to import 60,000 vials of Amphotericin-B, a drug found effective for the treatment of mucormycosis, also called black fungus. The procurement will be made by June 1.Till date, 2,245 people were found infected with the disease. Of them, 120 succumbed and 213 patients recovered and were discharged from the hospitals.Rajesh Tope, state health minister, while speaking to the reporters after attending a review meeting on mucormycosis and Covid-19 situation in the state, said, “We have notified mucormycosis as a disease under the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, which means that the state will have to inform the Centre about each case that comes up in the state.”“The state has floated a global tender for procuring Amphotericin-B injections for the treatment of mucormycosis. We have received a response from a firm. We would get 60,000 vials of the medicine by June 1. It will be an additional supply apart from the current allocation of the medicine by the Centre,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-to-get-60k-vials-of-black-fungus-medicine-101621967872698.html
26-05-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh water tariff hike: Stay notified, no arrears for bills paid already||The UT administration on Tuesday notified the stay on hiked water tariff and said no arrears will be given for already paid inflated water bills.The UT order, issued by principal secretary (local government) Arun Gupta , states that the administration is “deferring the implementation” of the September 11, 2020 notification, under which water charges were hiked by 200%.The order has come into effect prospectively, that is, from the date of issuance – May 25.“The order only covers the period from May 25, 2021 to March 31, 2022, and not the period from September 11, 2020 to May 24, 2021. So, there is no question of paying arrears to residents who have already paid the inflated water bills,” said a senior UT official, on condition of anonymity.Since September 2020, residents have paid inflated water bills for eight months in four cycles. The latest bills for April and May are due to be paid, which as per administration officials, will be based on the September 11 notification.Chandigarh Resident Association Welfare Federation (CRAWFED) chairperson Hitesh Puri said, “We welcome the immediate relief. But, the municipal corporation should give arrears to residents for the eight months already paid.”Residents complained that the latest order does not clarify what will happen to the tariff after March 31, 2022. “We do not know whether the September 2021 notification will be applicable or the administration follow the MC resolution passed in February, under which tariff was reduced, particularly the exorbitant sewer cess. The administration and MC should clarify this,” added Puri. “It is simply a face-saving U-turn taken by the ruling dispensation in the MC in view of the upcoming elections in December. Public anger was simmering for last eight month and the Opposition jumped to make most of the situation. It is nothing to welcome as the water tariff issue still remains,” said Vinod Vashisht, convener, City Forum of Residents Welfare Organisations (CFORWO).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-water-tariff-hike-stay-notified-no-arrears-for-bills-paid-already-101621968131994.html
26-05-2021||Other||Recruitment anomalies at madarsas in Azamgarh, SIT registers FIR||Teachers at 20 madarsas in Azamgarh were appointed in violation of norms with the alleged involvement of managers and other staff, said officials of the UP police special investigation team (SIT) here on Tuesday. The anomalies in the appointment of teachers also resulted in major loss to the state exchequer, they said. On the basis of findings that surfaced while scanning the records provided by district minority welfare officer and madarsa authorities, the SIT had registered an FIR against 21 managers and staff of these madarsas and other unidentified people under IPC sections 409 for criminal breach of trust by public servant, 420 for fraud and 120-B for criminal conspiracy in the matter on May 20. SIT officials said the case had been further investigated to ascertain the role of people involved in the fraud through the years. It was found that the teachers’ appointment was done on the basis of certificates issued by the institutions that are not recognised by the state or the central government, said an SIT official. He said the appointment of one teacher was done when he was not even 18 years of age, which is the minimum age criterion for appointment of assistant teachers at madarsas. In another case, four sisters were appointed in the madarsa where their father was manager, added the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/recruitment-anomalies-at-madarsas-in-azamgarh-sit-registers-fir-101621968130875.html
26-05-2021||Other||Goa police files appeal against Tarun Tejpal’s acquittal in High Court||The Goa government has approached the Bombay High Court at Goa challenging the acquittal of journalist and former editor of the Tehelka magazine Tarun Tejpal, HT has learnt. Tejpal was acquitted by the Additional Sessions Judge Kshama Joshi at the dedicated fast track court in Goa on May 21 with the judge saying that there wasn’t enough evidence to warrant a conviction and proceeded to give him the benefit of doubt. No sooner than the verdict was pronounced in court, Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant, who was addressing a press conference later in the day, claimed that the state would file an appeal “as soon as possible” and that “a woman has been wronged” with Tejpal’s acquittal. The chief minister, who claimed that he had personally seen the evidence and documents submitted before the Court, said that “there cannot be an acquittal.”“I feel a woman has been wronged. The Goa government will not tolerate it. We are filing an appeal in HC as soon as possible,” Sawant had said on Friday.On Tuesday, the Goa government filed an appeal before the Bombay High Court at Goa which is currently on vacation. The development was confirmed by a member of Tejpal’s legal team, who however said they were yet to be officially intimated. The judge in her judgement, copies of which were handed out to the parties on Tuesday, gave Tejpal, who is facing charges of sections 376 (rape), 354A (sexual harassment), 354B (criminal assault with intent to disrobe a woman), 341 (wrongful restraint) and 342 (wrongful confinement) of the Indian Penal Code, the benefit of doubt and acquitted him on account of lack of sufficient evidence. Tejpal, in a statement after the verdict was pronounced, thanked the court for a fair and impartial trial. “It is with profound respect that I thank this court for its rigorous impartial and fair trial and for its thorough examination of the CCTV footage and other empirical material on record… I wish to make no further statement at this time and request my family’s privacy be respected as we try and reclaim our broken lives. I will make a comprehensive statement at an appropriate time in the future,” Tejpal said.“In an awfully vitiated age, where ordinary courage has become rare, I thank her for standing by the truth. The past seven and a half years have been traumatic for my family as we have dealt with the catastrophic fallout of these allegations on every aspect of our personal, professional and public lives. We have felt the boot of the state but through it all, we have cooperated fully with the Goa Police and the legal system, through hundreds of court proceedings. We have unwaveringly followed every mandate of due procedure and abided by every principle of law as laid down in the Constitution. We have also endeavoured to uphold every norm of decency expected in a case like this,” Tejpal said in a written statement handed out to the reporters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/goa-police-files-appeal-against-tarun-tejpal-s-acquittal-in-high-court-101621967886239.html
26-05-2021||Chandigarh||1st death anniversary: Mohali hockey stadium named after Balbir Singh Senior||The Mohali International Hockey Stadium was officially renamed after three-time Olympics champion and Padma Shri recipient Balbir Singh Senior on the occasion of his first death anniversary on Tuesday.Dedicating the stadium to the legendry Olympic gold medallist who had died at the age of 96 on May 25 last year, Punjab sports, youth services and NRI affairs minister Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi, said, “From now on, the stadium will be known as Olympian Balbir Singh Senior International Hockey Stadium.” Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh also paid tributes to the legend on Twitter: “Fondly remember legendary hockey player Padma Shri Balbir Singh Senior. On his first death anniversary today, Mohali International Hockey stadium is being dedicated to him.”Sodhi announced that an international hockey tournament will be organised at the stadium to commemorate the stalwart’s journey. As a tribute to the hockey wizard, a scholarship for outstanding sports persons will be initiated and named after him and his statue will be installed on the stadium’s entrance. Balbir Singh Sr’s world record for most goals scored by an individual in the men’s hockey final of the Olympics still remains unbeaten. He had scored five goals in India’s 6-1 victory over the Netherlands in the gold medal match of the 1952 Helsinki Games.Balbir Singh Sr’s three Olympic gold medals came in London (1948), Helsinki (1952) as vice-captain, and Melbourne (1956) as captain.Balbir Singh Senior’s grandson Kabir Singh presented a book, Golden Goal penned by Sarwan Singh, to the minister on the occasion. Four Olympians — Rajinder Singh Senior, Rajinder Singh Junior, Ajit Singh and Prabhjot Singh — secretary sports Raj Kamal Chaudhary, director DPS Kharbanda and joint director Kartar Singh were present on the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/1st-death-anniversary-mohali-hockey-stadium-named-after-balbir-singh-senior-101621967891635.html
26-05-2021||Other||Jayant Chaudhary elected new RLD president||Soon after he was elected the new national president of the Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD), Jayant Chaudhary on Tuesday extended his party’s full support to the farmers’ proposed May 26 dharna to mark six months of their protest against the Centre’s three farm laws passed in September last year. He asked his party leaders and workers to participate in the dharna in large numbers. He also appealed to the Centre to resolve the farmers’ issue by inviting them to a dialogue. Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of over 40 farm unions, has organised the dharna.Earlier, the decision to elevate Chaudhary, 42, who was till now the party vice president, was taken during a virtual meeting of the party’s national executive. His elevation to the post comes following the demise of party president and his father Ajit Singh, who had succumbed to Covid on May 6.During the meeting, party’s general secretary Trilok Tyagi proposed Jayant’s name for the post of national president which was approved by former MP and national general secretary Munshiram Pal and unanimously supported by all members of the national executive.In his first address after being elected president, he expressed his gratitude to his party leaders and workers and called upon them to follow in the footsteps of party ideologues Chaudhary Charan Singh (his grandfather and former PM) and Ajit Singh ( former union minister and a multiple-time MP). He also asked them to work towards making the party organisation stronger. He also said his party’s struggle to espouse the farmers’ cause will continue. Expressing his concern over the prevailing pandemic, Jayant accused the state and the central governments of failing to control its spread. He said Covid vaccination in rural areas should be expedited with the help of accredited social health activists (ASHAs) and Aanganwadi workers.Born on December 27, 1978, Jayant Chaudhary, a former Lok Sabha MP from Mathura (2009-2014), graduated from Delhi University and in 2002 did his MSc in accounting and finance from the London School of Economics and Political Science.Meanwhile, senior Samajwadi Party leader and former member, state planning commission, prof Sudhir Panwar congratulated Jayant Chaudhary on his elevation as the RLD national president.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jayant-chaudhary-elected-new-rld-president-101621967830889.html
26-05-2021||City||Odisha evacuates over 5 lakh people as cyclone Yaas set to make landfall||With the very severe cyclonic storm Yaas set to make landfall near Dhamra of Bhadrak district around May 26 morning, the Odisha government said it has evacuated over 5 lakh people to cyclone shelters and has finalised arrangements for shifting over another 5 lakh people to safe places in four coastal districts."The severe cyclonic storm Yaas is moving at a speed of around 15 kmph and now lies about 160 km off Paradip coast. During landfall, it would have a wind speed of 155 kmph-165 kmph, gusting to 185 kmph. The impact will be severe for six hours before and after the landfall at Chandbali. Big trees and electric poles may get uprooted. Chandbali is likely to witness the maximum damage due to the cyclone," said IMD DG Dr Mrutyunjay Mohapatra.In a major change in its prediction, the Joint Typhoon Warning Centre (JTWC) has recently changed the landfall place of Cyclone Yaas. In its latest bulletin, the JTWC has observed that Cyclone Yaas will make landfall at the mouth of Budhabalanga river estuary in Balasore district.Severe cyclonic storm Yaas lays over East-central and adjoining West-central Bay of Bengal as it moved northwestwards with a speed of about 17 kmph during the past six hours. The system lays about 160 km south-southeast of Paradip and 250 km south-southeast of Balasore.According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), the storm is likely to intensify further into a very severe cyclonic storm during the next 12 hours and continue to move north-northwestwards before landing very close to Chandbali-Dhamra port by the early morning of May 26.Doppler radar at Paradip has spotted the eye of Cyclone Yaas. The radius of the 'Eye' is said to be 35 kilometres. Areas falling in the route of the eye to suffer massive destruction.Odisha's special relief commissioner Pradip Jena said over 5 lakh people have been shifted to cyclone shelters in Balasore, Bhadrak, Cuttack, Jagatsinghpur Jajpur, Kendrapara, Keonjhar, Khordha, Dhenkanal, Gajapati, Ganjam, Mayurbhanj, Nayagarh, Puri and Angul so far. The maximum number of people, 1.43 lakh have been shifted in Balasore district, followed by 1.05 lakh from Kendrapara and 94000 from Bhadrak, the SRC data revealed.“We have put four coastal districts- Kendrapara, Jagatisnghpur, Bhadrak and Balasore - on high-risk zone and started preparation accordingly after the meteorological department predicted that the cyclone will hit the coast anywhere near Bhitarkanika, Dhamra and Chandbali. As many as 6,900 cyclone centres are ready for use where 7.50 lakh people can be accommodated,” special relief commissioner PK Jena said.Jena said 710 diesel gensets and 813 tankers have been dispatched while more than 10,000 employees of the energy department have been deployed in the districts likely to be affected for electricity restoration works. Another 2,000 workers will reach their locations by tonight. More than 300 health teams have remained prepared to handle any emergency. In view of the weather warning by IMD, flight operations at Biju Patnaik International Airport in Bhubaneswar will be suspended from 11 pm today to 5 am on May 27.As many as 4,000 personnel of NDRF, ODRAF, fire services and state police have been deployed at strategic places. Around 52 NDRF, 50 ODRAF, 206 fire services, 86 teams of the forest department have been pressed into service.As the landfall site is not very far from the Paradip port, the Paradip Port Trust authorities suspended its operations from 2 pm on Tuesday. At least 12 vessels were sent to the deep sea to avoid the path of the storm while all the trucks, dumpers and large cargo handling equipment in the port area have been taken to a safe zone, said PPT chairman Vinit Kumar."The authorities have been in coordination with the Odisha government and the Jagatsinghpur district administration to take all the precautionary measures," Paradip Port Trust Chairman Vinit Kumar told reporters.The Integrated Test Range of the DRDO has taken various measures to protect its facilities at Chandipur and Abdul Kalam Island at Dhamra. The Integrated Test Range (ITR) of the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) has three missile launch pads at Chandipur and one launch complex at Abdul Kalam Island, besides two separate mission control rooms and blockhouses. Though the island will be impacted by the cyclone, the control room and the blockhouse have been designed to withstand wind speeds up to 400 km.Milan Kumar Pal, spokesperson of the ITR facility, said his organisation is prepared for the very severe cyclonic storm, and are implementing the standard operating procedures prepared by DRDO.The National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) has earmarked 112 teams for deployment in five states and the Union territory of Andaman and Nicobar Islands, its highest-ever number of teams for deployment in a disaster. Out of these, NDRF has earmarked 52 teams for Odisha followed by 45 teams for West Bengal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/odisha-evacuates-over-5-lakh-people-as-cyclone-yaas-set-to-make-landfall-101621967692307.html
26-05-2021||Noida||Developers seek protection from insolvency for a year||Real estate developers on Tuesday demanded protection from insolvency proceedings for at least a year as the sector had been severely hit financially due to the pandemic. They also wrote to the Centre and the Uttar Pradesh Real Estate Regulatory Authority (UP-Rera) seeking more time to repay loans.“Section 7 of Indian Bankruptcy Code (IBC) allows a financial creditor to file for initiating the corporate insolvency resolution process against a corporate debtor. Section 9 provides for application of insolvency by an operational creditor, while Section 10 is for initiation of insolvency proceedings by a corporate applicant. We have requested that applicability of these three sections be suspended for a year like it was done in 2020 in view of Covid-19 pandemic,” said RK Arora, Uttar Pradesh president of National Real Estate Development Council.Last year’s relief expired on March 31, 2021.“We request from UP RERA and the government of India to extend this relief further because the second wave of Covid -9 has further ruined the business with most of our sales staff, construction works and others falling ill and affecting projects. Besides we request for a moratorium of one year for business loans in view of Covid 19 pandemic,” said Arora.There are at least 600 ongoing realty projects in Gautam Budh Nagar district that consists of Noida, Greater Noida and Yamuna Expressway areas. As per the Confederation of Real Estate Developers Association of India (Credai), around ₹50,000 crore investment is at stake in these projects.“The real estate sector saw worst phase in terms of sales and construction in 2020, when first Covid 19 wave arrived halting work at realty projects. As the sentiment began to revive in the market, the second wave struck and further deteriorated the sector and forcing a liquidity crisis,” said Prashant Kumar Tiwari, president of Western UP Credai.The UPRERA will look into all these issues in its meeting next week.“We are going to consider their (developer’s) proposal next week in authority meeting and take appropriate action in this regard,” said Balvinder Kumar, UP-Rera member.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/developers-seek-protection-from-insolvency-for-a-year-101621967770888.html
26-05-2021||Other||Oppn rattled by Yogi’s popularity among masses: UP Dy CM||Without taking name of Samajwadi Party (SP) chief Akhilesh Yadav for his “no examination without vaccination” tweet, deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma and UP cabinet minister Sidharth Nath Singh on Tuesday asked the opposition to explain how children below 18 could be inoculated when there was no vaccine available for them. “Those sitting at home and engaged in Twitter politics do not have this basic information how children can be inoculated when there’s no vaccines available for them. The opposition is trying to incite children against the government that reflects their negative politics. They are wasting their energy in quest of an issue on which they can do petty politics,” Sharma said in a statement.“The opposition must learn from chief minister Yogi Adityanath, should step out from their homes and serve the people,” Sharma added. He said to maintain their existence in political arena, the opposition was working hard to find an issue. Sharma said how those who refused to take the jab were now talking about vaccination.“The oppositions is rattled by the popularity of chief minister Yogi Adityanath among the masses. CM visited 50 districts in Covid times to take stock of measures taken to contain its spread. As a result, recovery rate in UP has gone up to 95%. Those sitting inside AC rooms and are only sending out tweets are disturbed how government has succeeded in controlling the spread of corona,” the deputy CM said.“There is no vaccine available for children and Yadav is now trying to mislead them and has put their future in danger. Is he (Akhilesh’s) dreaming of ruining the state?,” asked cabinet minister Sidharth Nath Singh in a tweet. “He misled the people by saying he was not going to get vaccinated against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) as he didn’t trust the BJP government. Subsequently, he risked many more by violating Covid protocol,” Singh, also the spokesperson for the UP government, said. He said the former chief minister was trying to change the goal post for his own convenience. “He first refused to get vaccinated and is now demanding vaccination for children below 18,” the minister said. Earlier in the day, the SP chief had tweeted, “Pehle tika, phir pariksha (No examination without vaccination).”On the issue of examinations, Singh said over the phone that union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ and defence minister Rajnath Singh held meetings with all education ministers and secretaries across the country on Sunday to get feedback on conducting board exams.“Both CBSE and ISC have deferred class 12 exams and cancelled class 10 exams. A decision to conduct UP Board high school and intermediate examinations will be taken in consultation with chief minister Yogi Adityanath,” Sharma said.Covid vaccination drive started in country on January 16 this year with two indigenously developed Covaxin and Covishield vaccines. The second phase of the drive to inoculate people above 60 and those over 45 with comorbidities began on March 1. The third phase began on April 1 for all above 45 years of age while people in 18-45 age group became eligible for inoculation in the next phase which started on May 1.On CM’s recent visit to Saifai and Azamgarh, Singh said Yogi had visited Saifai, the native village of SP chief, and Azamgarh, the parliamentary constituency of Akhilesh, without any semblance of partisan politics in which the SP indulged all through.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/oppn-rattled-by-yogi-s-popularity-among-masses-up-dy-cm-101621967654888.html
26-05-2021||Noida||Noida’s ‘oxygen langar’ at Botanical Garden wrapped up||Noida: After nearly three weeks since it started, the drive-through ‘oxygen langar’ service at Botanical Garden Metro Station parking lot in Sector 38 has been wrapped up as not a single patient turned up there in the past couple of days.The free oxygen service for Covid-19 patients was started on May 5 by the management of Gurudwara Sri Guru Singh Sabha, Khalsa Aid International, an NGO, and the district administration. When it started, at least 20 Covid patients with dangerously fluctuating oxygen levels were being given relief with the help of 20 oxygen concentrators round the clock per day. At least 10 beds were set up in the parking lot for patients who needed the service.However, 20 days on, the number of patients seeking oxygen at the site has significantly reduced. “Since May 21, we haven’t got a single patient at the oxygen langar. Hence, on Monday, we decided to wrap up the arrangements,” said Lt. Colonel (retired) Surjeet Singh, who is part of the initiative.However, Singh said that the service has not been shut but only shifted from the Metro parking lot to the gurudwara in Sector 18.“We have put four beds at the gurudwara’s dispensary in case patients need the oxygen langar service. The service at Botanical Garden was started at a time of emergency for patients who were unable to find beds or oxygen support for themselves. But now, the situation seems to have got better and we have scaled down our service back to the gurudwara,” said Singh.He said that we will continue to provide oxygen cylinders to be taken home to those who need it, at a refundable security deposit of ₹8,000. “In case a person cannot afford the security deposit, our team will go to their residence to verify the authenticity of the case and then lend the cylinder free of cost,” said Singh.Meanwhile, in Ghaziabad too, the takers for oxygen langar service have reduced. In Ghaziabad, the Shri Guru Singh Sabha Gurudwara in Indirapuram, along with NGO Khalsa Help International, had started providing a drive-through oxygen service free of cost to patients in need from April 23. On May 9, a similar set up was put up at Hapur mod Gurudwara with 10 beds.However, now, the set up at Indirapuram has been removed as number of patients reduced. “Earlier, we were getting at least 500 to 700 patients a day at the Indirapuram Gurudwara alone. However, since last week, the number of patients reduced to about 100 a day. Hence, we have now restricted the service only to the Hapur mod Gurudwara where patients are availing oxygen langar service,” said Gurpreet Singh, founder of Khalsa Help International.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noidas-oxygen-langar-at-botanical-garden-wrapped-up-101621967653611.html
26-05-2021||Chandigarh||1971 war hero Col Panjab Singh dies of post-Covid complications||Col Panjab Singh (retd), a 1971 Indo-Pak war hero and recipient of the third highest gallantry wartime award Vir Chakra, passed away at the age of 79 at Command Hospital, Chandimandir. Having successfully recovered from Covid-19, he died on Monday evening due to some post-Covid medical complications. His elder son Anil Kumar had also succumbed to the disease on May 21. Born in 1942, he was commissioned into the 6th Battalion of Sikh Regiment in 1967 and went on to command it from 1986 to 1990.In the 1971 war, during Operation Cactus Lilly, the battalion occupied 13km frontage on the heights above Poonch, covering two strategic points. Col Panjab Singh was commanding a company deployed at Tund, which had been limited to a platoon, when the enemy attacked the position with more than a battalion, supported by artillery and mortar fire, on December 3.“Col Panjab with complete disregard for his safety moved from trench to trench and ensured that all weapons under his command engaged the assaulting force till the attacking force retreated, leaving behind their dead and weapons. The enemy attacked the position nine times over two nights, which were similarly foiled. For this brave act, he was awarded the prestigious Vir Chakra on December 24, 1971,” an official release stated.Post retirement, Col Panjab Singh was the director of Sainik Welfare, Himachal Pradesh, and dedicated himself to look after the welfare of veteran fraternity. He was also the vice-president, Indian Ex Service League, Himachal Pradesh of Southern Area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/1971-war-hero-col-panjab-singh-dies-of-post-covid-complications-101621967653038.html
26-05-2021||Noida||Not-for-profit Covid centres come to aid of patients in Ghaziabad||Ghaziabad: Honey Garg, a Ghaziabad resident, spent about ₹4.25 lakh for his Covid-19 treatment at a private hospital and tested negative on May 20. Initially, his oxygen levels were low, and the issue continued even after he got discharged. Garg said that with limited finances available, he arrived at a Covid care centre run by an NGO at a college in Mohan Nagar, and is now getting proper care for free for the past five days. During the second Covid wave, some non-government organisations (NGOs) have pitched in with free-of-cost services for Covid-19 patients. The centre at Mohan Nagar, run by NGO Khalsa Help International, has ensured regular oxygen supply, food, medicines and Covid care taken up by a team of doctors. “The centre has come as a blessing in disguise for me after I spent most of my savings during Covid treatment for about 10 days. Still after discharge, I required oxygen and I came to know about this centre. The staff here are taking good care of my health,” Garg, who has a small computer repair business, said. Saroj Bhatia’s retired husband is also one of the patients at the centre and requires regular oxygen supply. “My husband is getting all the facilities here, besides regular oxygen supply. He had tested positive for Covid and later turned negative. But getting oxygen was a major issue we faced,” she said. Harminder Singh Kohli, in-charge of the Mohan Nagar centre with 100 beds, said that the facility started May 11 and discharged more than 150 patients so far. “Forty patients are still admitted to Covid and non-Covid wards. We also plan to increase the beds. We have a team of doctors and volunteers who take care of patients, and everything is free. We have even provided staying facility for family members of patients who come from outside Ghaziabad,” Kohli said. At another similar centre at a school in Nehru Nagar, which was initiated by the organisation, Sewa Bharti, on May 25, 28-year-old Priyanka Mittal is staying with her husband who got discharged from hospital after 15 days of treatment. “His oxygen level was low even after the discharge from the hospital. So, we came here and found that all health-care facilities, including oxygen, are available for free. I, along with my husband, am staying here since May 20,” Mittal said. Another family from Niwari is also staying at the centre as their 55-year-old member is admitted at the centre. “My mother-in-law was having frequent complaint of fever and we took consultations from several doctors. We got her admitted to a private hospital and we ended paying up ₹18,000 for her one-night stay. Then we were told to arrange for oxygen,” said Reshma Singh, a resident of Niwari at Modinagar in Ghaziabad. “Thereafter, we heard about the Nehru Nagar centre and brought her here. Now, we are relieved of any financial burden. The centre has also given us one room to stay, along with other facilities for free,” she added. The Nehru Nagar centre’s assistant in-charge Anuj Puri said that the centre has 100 beds and has all health-care facilities at par with government’s L1 category hospitals. “About 76 patients here have recovered so far and we have a provision of 50 beds equipped with oxygen supply. A team of doctors is available round the clock. We have also made proper arrangements of room for families who wish to stay,” he added. Chief medical officer Dr NK Gupta said that both the centres have come in handy for patients when Covid cases were coming in at a fast rate. “Both centres have facilities comparable to L1 category hospitals and what is more overwhelming is that all facilities are free-of-cost, including oxygen, medicines and treatment. These centres are also used for patients who have recovered but have no separate room at home for home isolation. This year we did not open L1 centres as infection was severe and L2/L3 category health-care hospitals were primarily used,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/notforprofit-covid-centres-come-to-aid-of-patients-in-ghaziabad-101621967650960.html
26-05-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: BMC gets 8 offers to supply 10 million Covid vaccine doses||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Tuesday said it has received eight proposals for supplying 10 million Covid-19 vaccine doses, in response to its global tenders, but it extended the duration for the same till June 1. Of the eight, seven proposals are for supplying Russia’s Sputnik V and one is for supplying Pfizer and AstraZeneca vaccines. The BMC said further scrutiny is ongoing, and the last date for submitting proposals has been extended up to June 1, 2021. Civic officials said they have to screen the proposals as all bids seem to be coming from suppliers or middlemen and not manufacturers. They will have to consider various factors, including latest developments such as the decision of companies like Pfizer to deal with only the central government and Indian companies getting licence to manufacture Sputnik. Besides, they will have to consider whether AstraZeneca can supply in India since the Pune-based Serum Institute of India is manufacturing the same vaccine under Covishield brand name. “As stated earlier, during this pandemic phase, across the world, Pfizer is supplying its Covid-19 vaccine only to central governments and supra-national organizations for deployment in national immunization programs. Neither Pfizer Inc nor any of its affiliates globally, including in India, have authorized anyone to import/market/distribute the Pfizer-BioNTech COVID 19 vaccine. We continue to have ongoing discussions with the Government of India towards making our vaccine available for use nationally,” said a Pfizer company spokesperson.The first civic body in India to seek vaccine supply directly from the international market, the BMC had on May 12 floated a global expression of interest (EOI). The duration for the same ended on May 18, but the deadline of the same was extended till May 25. Last week, it had said it received three proposals, but the proposals were lacking some documents, due to which the last date was extended up to May 25. The three proposals were for supplying Russia’s Sputnik, of which one was a UK-based company and two were Indian firms. The price range in all the three proposals was around Rs1,500 for both doses.Municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal said, “In response to our global EoI for procurement of 1 crore vaccine doses (10 million), eight bids have been received till date. One bid is for Pfizer/AstraZeneca and the remaining seven are for Sputnik. The time period has been extended by one week to enable various bidders to submit a complete set of documents in support of the bids as prescribed under BMC’s global EoI. Further, any additional bid shall also be entertained.”According to BMC, of the seven suppliers who have shown interest in supplying Sputnik V, one has also offered to supply Sputnik Light (a single-dose vaccine). Civic officials said they had video conferencing with all the eight suppliers and have asked them to submit the supporting documents, which will include supply schedule, supply quantity, supply price including taxes etc. In a statement issued on Tuesday, the BMC said, “The BMC is currently scrutinising documents submitted considering it is important to examine the business relationship between suppliers who are willing to supply vaccines and companies that actually manufacture the vaccines. This is to ensure that the supply of vaccine is ensured in a time-bound and smooth manner. The scrutiny is also being done on the basis of the period in which vaccines will be supplied, number of vaccines, and its price etc.”Meanwhile, the BMC plans to aggressively undertake the vaccination drive once it receives additional doses in the form of mobile vaccination centres. As of Tuesday, 3,014,743 citizens were vaccinated, of which 99,206 were in the age group of 18 to 45, followed by 1,065,041 in 45 to 59, 1,189,999 above 60 years of age and remaining were health care and frontline workers. On Tuesday alone, 34,265 citizens were vaccinated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbaibmc-gets-8-offers-to-supply-10-million-covid-vaccine-doses-101621967592122.html
26-05-2021||Noida||Project Aasra: 15 Covid-affected children receive benefits||Noida: As many as 15 children affected by the Covid-19 pandemic in Gautam Budh Nagar have so far received benefits from the district police’s initiative -- project Aasra -- which was launched on April 29 in the district.Under the initiative, a helpline -- 9870395200 -- was launched to help children who have either lost parents to Covid-19 or whose families tested positive and thus unable to look after them. The police department had urged the public to come forward as volunteers and provide help with food, medicines, transport, among others. “So far, 15 children have received benefits while 101 volunteers have come forward to provide necessary aid. More volunteers are joining every day,” said Vrinda Shukla, deputy commissioner of police (women and child safety).Officials said that of 15 children, four have lost their parents to Covid-19 in May. They are two sibling pairs: brother and sister aged 10 years and eight years and two brothers aged 15 years and seven years. The first pair is now under the care of their aged grandparents and the other is with their maternal uncle, a daily wage earner, Shukla said, adding that both the sibling pairs are from Greater Noida.The initiative has already been able to sponsor the education of the first pair for one year, the officials said.“The teen boy was working at a roadside eatery and we are trying to get him trained as electrician or plumber. His younger brother is in class 4 and efforts are on for education sponsorship,” said the DCP.The officials said they are concerned about cases that may be going unreported, especially in rural belt.“We need to increase the reach of the project at the ground level. We will ask the health department to share the project details with the Covid-dedicated hospitals,” said another police official.According to the officials, the basic education department has also shared a video detailing the fine points of the initiative with the teachers. Information about children being affected by the pandemic can also be shared at the police helpline (112) and the Childline (1098), the officials said.FXN India Suraksha, the NGO managing the district Childline, is also a part of the initiative. “After the initial help, the Childline will take over the care of the children. We want to help as many beneficiaries as possible. People should provide any leads they have for children who have been affected in this manner,” said Satya Prakash, programme manager, FXN India Suraksha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/project-aasra-15-covid-affected-children-receive-benefits-101621967531591.html
26-05-2021||Noida||Covid-19 infects 291 minors in second wave till now, no death||Only 291 of the 35,609 positive cases (0.8%) detected in Gautam Budh Nagar between April 1 and May 24 were of children, according to data from the district health department.The district chief medical officer (CMO), Dr Deepak Ohri, said that there had been no deaths under this category. “Of the infected, 233 have already recovered under home isolation, and only 58 are active cases -- 18 in Covid-dedicated facilities and the rest still under home isolation,” he said.The data confirms what experts have been saying all along, that children are more likely to recover and more likely to contract a mild form of the disease, if infected.Dr DK Gupta, director of the Super Specialty Paediatric Hospital and Post Graduate Teaching Institute (SSPHPGTI) – the only children’s hospital in the district at the moment – said that the pattern of Covid-19 infection has remained same in both the first wave last year and the ongoing second wave.“There have been no deaths of children so far. During the first wave, out of those 16 critically ill patients – who had multiple co-morbidities like kidney failure, cancer and cardiac problems – we couldn’t save the lives of three,” he said.On Monday, All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Delhi, director Dr Randeep Guleria said they had no evidence that children would be more affected in the event of a third wave.“I agree with Dr Guleria’s opinion. These (that children will be more affected) are assumptions, which is far away from the reality. Medical sciences do not rely on assumptions as it causes panic. I firmly believe that the trend of Covid-19 impact will remain the same in the third wave and people need not fear,” Gupta said.Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS) director Dr Rakesh Gupta, who once headed the department of paediatrics in the Armed Force Medical College (AFMC), Pune, said that since a large number of adults are likely to have taken their vaccination by the time of a possible third wave, the share of infections in minors will likely be more. “But if the scientific valuation is any indication, the infection is not going to be as fatal as in cases of adults,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/covid19-infects-291-minors-in-second-wave-till-now-no-death-101621967530869.html
26-05-2021||Mumbai||Act against e-commerce companies flouting Covid-19 lockdown norms: Bombay HC||The Bombay high court (HC) on Tuesday directed the state government to immediately take action against erring e-commerce websites violating the Break the Chain norms while delivering non-essential goods. The HC also sought to know what relief the state and Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) proposed to give retailers on the lines of those given to hawkers etc with regards to a waiver of license and other fees, given the lockdown. The state and BMC have been asked to file affidavits in three weeks and posted hearing of the petition on June 21. The vacation bench of justice RD Dhanuka and justice Madhav Jamdar, while hearing the petition filed by the Federation of Retail Traders Welfare Association, was informed by advocate Dipesh Siroya that retail shop owners selling non-essential items had suffered heavy losses, financial instability and mass unemployment due to Covid-19 pandemic and the lockdown. In light of this, the retailers were seeking a waiver of property tax, renewal fees and license fees payable by them for the entire period of lockdown starting from March, last year. It was submitted that though the retailers had supported the government announced lockdown, there was no reciprocal subsidy for the closure of trade for the over 13 lakh retailers who employed approximately 45 lakh employees. The federation also claimed that it had made several representations for tax waivers to various authorities including the BMC, but after they did not receive any response, hence, approached the HC. Advocate Jamshed Mistry for the federation said that while incentives were given to licensed hawkers and others during the pandemic crisis, no package was announced for retail traders, hence they were aggrieved. The federation also said that though various standard operating procedures (SOPs) including April 13 ‘Break the Chain’ order was issued only for supply and provision of essential goods and services, the e-commerce suppliers were supplying non-essential goods and services and violating the state directives, hence they should be stopped.The court directed the state government to take immediate action against errant e-commerce companies if they were found flouting guidelines and also asked the state to file an affidavit in reply to the petition in two weeks enumerating the incentives given to hawkers and why the same could not be extended to retail traders.The bench also directed BMC to decide on the representation by the federation and file an affidavit in reply within two weeks enumerating steps taken by it regarding waiver of license fees and other reliefs sought in the petition and posted further hearing to June 21.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/act-against-e-commerce-companies-flouting-covid-19-lockdown-norms-bombay-hc-101621967471472.html
26-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra records 24,136 new Covid-19 cases, 601 deaths||Maharashtra on Tuesday recorded 24,136 new Covid-19 cases and 601 deaths. The total number of tests conducted on Tuesday were 264,275. The total number of people affected by Covid-19 to date stands at 56,26,155.There are currently 3,14,368 active patients across the state, of which, Pune tops with 45,648 patients, followed by Mumbai with 27,855 active patients. The death toll has now reached 90,349, with Mumbai leading with 14,650 deaths, followed by Pune with 11,747 deaths.Meanwhile, the state government has banned home isolation in 18 districts that have a high number of patients. All the Covid-19 patients—both symptomatic as well as asymptomatic will have to be shifted to Covid care centres (CCC) in these districts.These 18 districts are Thane, Pune, Satara, Sindhudurg, Ratnagiri, Osmanabad. Beed, Raigad, Hingoli, Akola, Amravati, Kolhapur, Sangli, Gadchiroli, Wardha, Nashik, Ahmednagar and Latur.State health minister Rajesh Tope, who addressed the media after the meeting with collectors and commissioners of these 18 districts, said that monitoring home quarantine patients has become an issue.“There will be no more home isolations in these 18 districts where the positivity rate is higher than the state average. We have seen that proper treatment not been given to patients in home isolation. Hence, the patients will be shifted to Covid care centres (CCC). We are increasing the number of CCC across the state, especially in smaller villages,” said Tope.He said the government has instructed the officials to undertake focussed testing. “We have instructed all officials, especially, in 18 districts, that they should indulge in right testing of high-risk contacts and low-risk contacts. The aim should not be to undertake generalised testing and bring down the positivity rate,” said Tope.However, many have criticised the move and said it will discourage people from testing and burden the inadequate health infrastructure.Dr Wiqar Shaikh, professor of medicine, Grant Medical College and Sir JJ Hospital described it as an ill-advised move. “There is no point in asking asymptomatic or those having mild or no symptoms to be admitted to the CCC. The government is burdening the already stressed infrastructure in these places. These patients be better treated at home,” said Shaikh.“In rural areas, Covid-19 is treated as stigma, and after banning home isolation, the situation will become worse, as no one will come for testing. People will rely on simple medicines or turn to quacks for treatment,” warned Shaikh.The Maharashtra rural development ministry would make available Arsenic-30 homoeopathic tablets to the villages and also give an insurance coverage of ₹50,00,000 to any employee who dies of the Covid-19 pandemic. In addition, any gram panchayat will get a 30-bed isolation centre if demanded by them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-records-24-136-new-covid-19-cases-601-deaths-101621967472029.html
26-05-2021||Noida||Walk-in registration for 18-44 group not started in UP yet, says Noida health dept||There was an unusual rush for vaccines against Covid-19 at several Gautam Budh Nagar government-run vaccination centres on Tuesday.The reason was that several had heard the headlines that the central government had allowed walk-in registration for vaccines for those who were in the 18-45 age category. The move is aimed at reducing vaccine wastage and providing help to those without access to internet or smartphones.What they didn’t realise that the Centre had also added that it would be left up to the respective state government to implement it or not.And Uttar Pradesh hadn’t, yet.“The facility for walk-in registration of vaccination for the 18-45 age group at government centres is not there in UP yet. Only online registrations and appointments for vaccination are accepted till further orders,” read a statement issued by the GB Nagar health department.Residents said that they hoped the government would allow the walk-in option. “Scheduling appointments online is not possible for everyone. Sometimes slots get booked in a few minutes. Besides, some people do not have access to the necessary infrastructure,” said K K Jain, secretary general, Federation of Noida Residents Welfare Associations.Meanwhile, district officials said they have increased the number of Covid-19 vaccination centres (CVC) from 37 to 59. “The drive-through centre at GIP mall has now been shifted to the mall’s basement due to the higher temperatures outside,” said Gajender Singh, the district nodal vaccination officer.On Monday, the new CVCs had a combined capacity to inoculate 4,300 people. Five of these are in Dankaur, five in Noida, three in Jewar, two in Dadri and seven in Greater Noida.In addition, the drive-through centres have also been increased to 10. The new centres are at Pathways School in Sector 100 , Millennium School near Sector 119, Cambridge School in Knowledge Park 1, Aster Public School in Delta-II and Pragyan Public School in Jewar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/walkin-registration-for-18-44-group-not-started-in-up-yet-says-noida-health-dept-101621967470933.html
26-05-2021||Mumbai||What action is proposed against firm supplying faulty ventilators through PM Cares: Bombay HC||The Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court (HC) on Tuesday directed the Centre to inform it about the action proposed to be taken against the supplier who provided 150 ventilators through the Prime Minister (PM) Cares Fund after news reports stated that 113 ventilators which were unboxed turned out to be defective.The bench took serious cognisance of the issue and sought to know from the Centre as to what remedial steps it proposed to take to address the issue as the ventilators were to be used in government and private hospitals in the Marathawada region. A division bench of justice Ravindra Ghuge and justice Bhalchandra Debadwar was hearing the suo motu public interest litigation (SMPIL), instituted after news reports pointed to issues pertaining to shortage of medical oxygen supply, black marketing of Remdesivir, funeral rites of Covid-19 patients and the inability of the common man to foot the huge bills for treating the black fungus infection, among others. Amicus curiae Satyajeet Bora submitted news reports which stated that 113 of the 150 ventilators provided through the PM Cares Funds were non-functional. Chief public prosecutor DR Kale representing the state informed the bench that the ventilators were manufactured by a company named Jyoti CNC with model name DHAMAN- III. He submitted that the dean of Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Aurangabad had received the same and had deployed 17 ventilators in GMCH. However, the ventilators developed extremely serious flaws which would impact the treatment of patients. The flaws included low inlet oxygen pressure and the patient becoming hypoxic which was life-threatening. The bench was further informed that 55 ventilators were distributed to Hingoli, Osmanabad, Beed and Parbhani districts and 41 ventilators were allotted to private hospitals asking them not to claim ventilator charges from patients. The remaining 37 ventilators with the GMCH were yet to be unboxed. Kale referred to letters from private hospitals which indicated that all the 41 ventilators provided to them were non-functional and posed a serious threat to the life of the patients, hence declined to use the ventilators and asked the authorities to take them back. The dean of a government hospital in Ambajogai, Beed district also informed that the ventilators were not worthy of being used. “We find the situation as regards to dysfunctional ventilators through the PM Cares fund to be quite serious...ventilators are believed to be lifesaving instruments and malfunctioning can put lives of patients in danger,” observed the bench. The court expressed serious concerns over the malfunctioning ventilators and noted that the dean of GMCH was justified in his decision of not unboxing the remaining 37 ventilators. The court then observed that the 74 ventilators supplied by several industrialists including Garware Polyester, Bajaj Auto, Hindalco etc. were functioning perfectly and flawlessly and said, “The company (Jyoti CNC) should not get away with this. It is the state exchequer money, it’s not bounty to be distributed.” The Court also expressed its displeasure over politicians jumping on to the issue and visiting GMCHs to find out whether ventilators were functioning properly. “We express our displeasure as regards such indulgence by people’s representatives. It is likely to cause more botheration to medical faculty than render any assistance,” noted the bench and posted hearing of the suo motu PIL next on May 28.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/what-action-is-proposed-against-firm-supplying-faulty-ventilators-through-pm-cares-bombay-hc-101621967412388.html
26-05-2021||Chandigarh||₹68 lakh collected in fine for violations amid lockdown in Ludhiana||Amid the unprecedented Covid cases and deaths in Ludhiana in May, residents’ defiance towards the curfew continues, as reflected in the 156 FIRs lodged in the past 15 days.Another 6,836 people were challaned for not wearing masks or maintaining social distancing – an average of 455 a day – fetching the police a whopping ₹68.36 lakh in fine.Worse, these numbers are far higher than those of the previous lockdowns imposed in the region amid the first wave of Covid-19.As many as 1,622 FIRs were registered for violations between March 23, 2020 and May 10 this year when the 17-hour curfew was imposed, while the number of challans was 1,59,525 – an average of 387 a day.Commissioner of police Rakesh Agrawal said that apart from issuing challans and lodging FIRs, the police had established four open jails at New SD School, Bahadurke Road, Indoor Stadium on Pakhowal Road, Guru Nanak Stadium and Valmiki Bhawan in Moti Nagar.Additional deputy commissioner of police-level officials have been deputed as assistant superintendent of jail at these four locations, where people found roaming without a valid reason are held for up to four hours.He added that the police had also initiated a free ride scheme for the elderly to take them for vaccination. They were also providing food to Covid patients in home isolation with the help of NGOs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/68-lakh-collected-in-fine-for-violations-amid-lockdown-in-ludhiana-101621967411833.html
26-05-2021||Noida||Noida: Better safe than sorry, say schools, Class 12 students||With the Centre and states yet to come to terms on conducting the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) Class 12 board exams, parents, teachers and student in Noida are a concerned lot.On one hand is the safety of students, and on the other is their future. Even harder hit are those students who have lost one or more of their parents, relatives or friends to Covid-19’s second wave that ravaged the city. The exams were earlier scheduled to begin from May 4. On April 14, the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) postponed it due to the pandemic. On Tuesday, most states are learnt to have opted for conducting class 12 exams, picking a proposed method that involves a shorter duration for the tests, holding them at schools where students are enrolled, and switching to only multiple choice and short-answer questions, a few opted for conducting it at designated centres, and some also wanted the exam scrapped. A final decision is likely on June 1.Schools back cautionKamini Bhasin, principal of DPS Noida, says that neither options were “foolproof”. “The children as well as school are confused. In any case, we await the final announcement so that we can start preparing to conduct the exams,” she said.Renu Singh, principal of Amity International School, said it would have been better to have followed the Class 10 assessment that was based on internal assessment. “Our school has over 500 students in Class 12 and asking all of them to step out and appear for an exam now is unthinkable,” she said.“In any case medical, engineering and even some departments in Delhi University hold their own entrance exams online that can decide students’ career path,” said Yashika Bhardwaj, principal of KR Mangalam World School, Vaishali, and a telecounsellor for the CBSE.Students’ distressAstha Singh, a resident of Sector 53 and student of Amity International School, said the mental stress on students was real. “I have seen many of my friends losing one or both of their parents due to Covid. It is a very difficult time for them. We have this underlying fear that we may bring the virus back home after the exam,” she said.Indirapuram resident and DPS Noida student Ankita Pathak had won a scholarship at a university in Canada for a course in business administration. “By now I would have been packing for Canada. However, with delayed exams and flights to Canada banned, those plans are on hold. I would’ve liked the board exams be optional and internal assessments be the basis of qualification,” she said, adding that the university offered to hold her seat till the situation eased.Shantanu Sharma from Amity International School too had a similar problem. He has been accepted at a university in Netherlands for anautomotive engineering course. “The academic year is set to start in September and if boards are held from July to August, as the CBSE suggested, we hope to get the results before deadline (CBSE plan is to give results in September),” he said.Foreign universities and colleges accept students based on letter of recommendations from the school with the condition that they present their final exam results before the start of the academic session. “As international universities operate on standard timelines, interested students are concerned about the admission process,” Rajiv Bansal, director of operations of Global Indian International School.Some are also changing plans and looking at applying to private universities. “I aimed to get a seat at one of the National Law Universities in India or pursue Economics in Delhi University. But now I feel I need another option as well so I am also appearing for entrances of private law universities,” said Kanishk Srinivas, a sector 62 resident and student of DPS Noida.Most kids are 17, give them vaccine: ParentsSome parents assume that since most Class 12 students were just a year away from being eligible for the vaccinations, it would be safe to vaccinate them.Manoj Kataria, president of Gautam Buddh Nagar Parents’ Welfare Society said, “Holding board exams at such a distressful time could be harmful for the students’ well being. Moreover, parents are concerned for the well being of their children as well,” he said. “These can become a super spreader event. Moreover, reports say that the third wave is going to affect children and we cannot take a chance,” said Preet Bhargava, a resident of Greater Noida West whose son is a student of Class 12.However, experts said that demand for vaccination is not a solution. “Union ministry of health has not given any directives for vaccination for children yet, hence we cannot comment on that. However, this is not a solution in the current scenario. Efforts should instead be made from the authorities as well as students and parents side to ensure that proper Covid protocols are followed when exams are held. Usually we see parents gather at exam centres when board exams are being held. Such a situation should be avoided at all costs,” said Dr NK Sharma, IMA President (Noida Chapter).On Monday, New Delhi All India Institute of Medical Sciences director Dr Randeep Guleria said, “If we look at the data, and compare both the Covid-19 waves, children are usually protected as the numbers are fewer. Even if they get infection, the disease is usually mild.” He added that there was no proof that children would be more affected in the event of a third wave.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-better-safe-than-sorry-say-schools-class-12-students-101621967351543.html
26-05-2021||Chandigarh||Mercury touches 40°C again in Chandigarh; set to rise further||The mercury once again touched 40°C in Chandigarh on Tuesday, and is likely to rise further in the coming days. Earlier this month, the maximum temperature had peaked at 40.7°C on May 17, before dropping amid cloudy weather and rain.“Due to clear skies, the maximum temperature went up to 40°C from Monday’s 37.4°C. Similar conditions are likely to continue till at least Friday and temperature can go as high as 42°C,” said an India Meteorological Department official. Meanwhile, the minimum temperature also went up from 20.5°C to 22.6°C. It is expected to go up further to 24-25°C in the next three days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhs-mercury-touches-40-c-again-will-rise-further-101621966091412.html
26-05-2021||Pune||Women volunteers ease burden at Pune crematorium ensuring last rites for Covid-19 victims||Preparing the pyre at a crematorium is not most people ever imagine having to do.With the number of deaths due to Covid-19 putting tremendous pressure on crematoriums in the city, a group of women ve volunteered to help all-men’s team with crematorium service.At the Vaikunth crematorium in Navi peth, 25 women from various professions, are on the job, so to speak, working in five-hour shifts basis, with five members in one batch.The job of these volunteer is to collect wood and dung cakes to prepare the pyre before the body arrives. After the body is cremated, the next day, the women are tasked with preparing the urns for the ashes and keeping it ready for the relatives. The women also keep the crematorium clean.“From mid-April to May 15 – there was heavy rush at the crematorium. Earlier, only men were doing this job and later, we also got a chance to provide this service,” said Vaishnavi Rathi, a 23-year old interior designer.Swaroop Vardhni and Seva Sahayog are the two NGOs through which women enrolled for this service.“It was overall a very different feeling when I started, as generally women don’t go to crematorium for the last rites. The worst part is, no one from the family, due to Covid, was allowed to attend the last rites, so we made sure we gave a respectful goodbye to departed souls,” added Rathi.Women also recite prayers for departed souls and perform all the rituals that a family member would normally do.“With constantly standing near the pyre, it was hard to work with PPE kits. We made sure we sanitised ourselves from head to toe before returning to our homes,” added Rathi.Anuprita Lele, another volunteer, said “Many married women also took part in this initiative and worked really hard to serve the society. With the body completely wrapped we could not understand to whom we are paying our last tributes. We just focused on doing things in an organised way.”With Covid death numbers now lower, the women’s service at the crematorium is currently on hold.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/women-volunteers-ease-burden-at-crematorium-ensuring-last-rites-for-covid-19-victims-101621956190573.html
26-05-2021||Pune||Pune green enthusiast asks for used bicycle donations||Cyclist Anand Vanjape is on a mission to find an eco-friendly means of commuting, once the lockdown is lifted. In order to achieve his goal, Vanjape has been busy reaching out to cycling enthusiasts to donate used bicycles for the needy and the poor. “In four days, even since we announced this drive on social media, we have managed to get 35 bicycles, but the target is to get 200 bicycles by the time lockdown is lifted,” said Nilesh Shinde, cyclist and a friend who is helping Anand in getting these bicycles. These bicycles are not just going to help the students in Mulshi area where they have to travel 10 kms to their school, but these cycles will be means of commuting for many of the needy people in slums, first time job holders, maids and everyone who have to travel the distance to their work areas. “With the current Covid situation, these bicycles could be the best bet of a healthy way of travel instead of travelling on buses which is comparatively expensive,” said Vanjape, “Besides, it is also an eco-friendly and will help save the environment.” The group of volunteers, young people are helping them to reach out to those avid cyclists to donate their cycles. The mission has so far even got geared cycles which Vanjape and Shinde help repair in a workshop they have set up in Kothrud. “Many people cannot afford to buy bicycles and these cycles can serve dual purpose, one as a mode of transport and also a healthy way to keep fit,” said Vanjape. While collecting cycles for needy, Vanjape is also getting a lot of calls for children’s bicycles, which are also expensive, hence now they are also collecting children’s cycles which can be distributed free of cost and after the child is grown up can be recycled. “The idea is to create a culture of recycling bicycles, for every child goes through five bicycles in his life and if they can bring a joy on someone’s else’s face, why not come forward and donate one,” said Vanjape.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/cyclist-enthusiast-wants-to-build-cycle-culture-in-city-asks-for-bicycle-donations-101621955471187.html
26-05-2021||Pune||New species of bamboo found in north-western ghats, named after ecologist Madhav Gadgil||PUNE A new species of bamboo, named after Prof Madhav Gadgil, an eminent Indian ecologist with a particular affection for bamboos, has been made by researchers and biologists from Pune.This recent discovery of the new species, Pseudoxytenanthera madhavii, was made by Dr P Tetali, Dr Sujata Tetali, Sarang Bokil, EM Muralidharan, Dr Ritesh Kumar Choudhary and D. Mandar Datar.“The specimens were collected from the natural habitat in Shirkoli village in Pune district’s north-western ghats. Pseudoxytenanthera madhavii is a new species of bamboo, locally known as “Mes”, and traditionally utilised in the north-western ghats,” said Tetali, a senior researcher, who lead the team.“The new species Psudoxytenanthera madhavii has been known to locals for ages and was traditionally used for construction. However, this species was not yet known botanically, as both bamboos Mes and another common bamboo in the ghats known as Manga, were treated under one botanical identity Pseudoxytenanthera stocksii. Our proposal for giving this new name was published in the recent issue of New Zealand-based journal “Phytotaxa”,” added Tetali. This bamboo grows up to 30 to 55 feet and can can be grown in Velha, Bhor and Mulshi talukas. “Pseudoxytenanthera madhavii is wild in moist and dry deciduous forests and has been widely cultivated in Pune and Satara. Much of this bamboo is used in construction and for shelter. However, its demand for furniture and in the housing industry is increasing due to its smooth surface, mechanical strength, better slivering and stripe-making qualities. In addition, it takes good polish,” said Tetali. At present, there are 128 species of bamboo in India, most of which are restricted to Northeast India, with only four species found in Maharashtra. Who is Madhav Gadgil?A recipient of multiple awards Madhav Gadgil studied Zoology at the universities of Pune and Bombay, before becoming the first biology student at Harvard University to receive a PhD for a thesis based on mathematical modelling. Gadgil has been largely responsible for introducing careful quantitative investigations in ecology and animal behaviour as well as viewing humans as an integral component of ecosystems to India. He is the founder of the Centre for Ecological Sciences. He was a member of the Science Advisory Council to the Prime Minister of India from 1986 – 1990. He chaired NCERT’s panel on Environmental Education and is currently a member of the National Tiger Conservation Authority.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/new-species-of-bamboo-found-in-north-western-ghats-named-ecologist-madhav-gadgil-101621955050600.html
26-05-2021||World||Mehul Choksi apprehended in Dominica, 101 nautical miles from Antigua||Fugitive diamantaire Mehul Choksi, who mysteriously went missing from Antigua and Barbuda on Sunday evening, was apprehended by authorities in Dominica, located about 101 nautical miles from Antigua, according to reports in local media there. A report in dominicannewsonline.com stated that Indian-born Choksi was in the custody of the Criminal Investigation Division (CID) in Dominica after he was caught on Tuesday night on the basis of an Interpol ‘yellow notice’. It added that arrangements were being made to hand him over to the Antigua police. Officials in Indian agencies said they are in touch with authorities in both the Caribbean countries to ascertain more details but it appears that he was trying to flee somewhere else. “He may have taken a private boat to flee to Dominica. We are gathering more details,” said an officer. His lawyer, Vijay Aggarwal said – “I have spoken to his family, his family is happy and relieved that finally whereabouts of Mehul Choksi are known. And efforts are being made to speak to him so that one can know the clearer picture that how he was taken to Dominica”. On Tuesday, Antiguan Prime Minister Gaston Browne had said that if Mehul Choksi had fled the country, he would have done so using a boat. The Antiguan government has said on several occasions that it is ready to extradite Choksi to India for which the process is already going on. His extradition case as well as revocation of citizenship by Antigua is currently being pursued in a court there, which he has challenged. Choksi, who has sought refuge in Antigua after allegedly cheating the Punjab National Bank of ₹13,578 crore along with his nephew Nirav Modi, and fleeing India in 2018, left his home on Sunday to go for dinner at a well-known restaurant in the southern part of the island and was never seen again.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/mehul-choksi-apprehended-in-dominica-101-nautical-miles-from-antigua-101622052674983.html
26-05-2021||World||Biden orders Covid origin hunt, says will press China for transparent probe: Full statement||US President Joe Biden on Wednesday asked the country's intelligence agencies to present a report on their most up-to-date analysis of the origins of Covid-19 within 90 days. Biden also said that the US, along with other countries, will press China to participate in a full, transparent, evidence-based international investigation.In a statement released by White House, Biden said that he received a report from the intelligence agencies on Covid-19, which was first reported from China in late 2019, in April, but it was not conclusive.The US President said he has asked intelligence agencies to "redouble their efforts to collect and analyze information that could bring us closer to a definitive conclusion".Biden has sought a report on whether the Covid-19 virus first emerged in China from an animal source or from a laboratory accident.Also read: Why is Chinese state media targeting Fauci amid Wuhan lab controversy? All you need to knowThe move by Biden to bring the discussion of China's role in the origin of Covid-19 signals an escalation in mounting controversy over how the virus first emerged.The probe will have immense implications both for China, which says it is not responsible for the pandemic, and for US politics, where the lab theory has been used by Republicans to attack Beijing.Here is the full text from White House's statement:Back in early 2020, when Covid-19 emerged, I called for the CDC to get access to China to learn about the virus so we could fight it more effectively. The failure to get our inspectors on the ground in those early months will always hamper any investigation into the origin of Covid-19.Nevertheless, shortly after I became President, in March, I had my National Security Advisor task the Intelligence Community to prepare a report on their most up-to-date analysis of the origins of Covid-19, including whether it emerged from human contact with an infected animal or from a laboratory accident. I received that report earlier this month, and asked for additional follow-up. As of today, the US Intelligence Community has “coalesced around two likely scenarios” but has not reached a definitive conclusion on this question. Here is their current position: “while two elements in the IC leans toward the former scenario and one leans more toward the latter – each with low or moderate confidence – the majority of elements do not believe there is sufficient information to assess one to be more likely than the other.”I have now asked the Intelligence Community to redouble their efforts to collect and analyze information that could bring us closer to a definitive conclusion, and to report back to me in 90 days. As part of that report, I have asked for areas of further inquiry that may be required, including specific questions for China. I have also asked that this effort include work by our National Labs and other agencies of our government to augment the Intelligence Community’s efforts. And I have asked the Intelligence Community to keep Congress fully apprised of its work.The United States will also keep working with like-minded partners around the world to press China to participate in a full, transparent, evidence-based international investigation and to provide access to all relevant data and evidence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/full-text-president-biden-orders-us-intelligence-to-give-final-report-on-covid-origin-101622050590598.html
26-05-2021||World||Biden asks US intel officials to investigate Covid-19 origin amid Wuhan lab controversy||President Joe Biden on Wednesday asked U.S. intelligence officials to “redouble” their efforts to investigate the origins of the Covid-19 pandemic, including the unlikely possibility that the origins of the virus trace to Chinese lab.After months of minimizing the possibility as a fringe theory, the Biden administration is responding both to domestic and geopolitical concerns about putting pressure on China to be transparent about the outbreak.Republicans, including former President Donald Trump, have promoted the theory that the virus emerged from a laboratory accident, rather than naturally through human contact with an infected animal.Biden in a statement said the majority of the intelligence community had “coalesced” around those two likely scenarios but “do not believe there is sufficient information to assess one to be more likely than the other.” He revealed that two of the 18 intelligence agencies lean toward the animal link and “one leans more toward” the lab theory, adding, "each with low or moderate confidence."Also Read | Why is Chinese state media targeting Fauci amid Wuhan lab controversy?Biden directed U.S. national laboratories to assist with the investigation and called on China to cooperate with international probes into the origins of the pandemic.“The United States will also keep working with like-minded partners around the world to press China to participate in a full, transparent, evidence-based international investigation and to provide access to all relevant data and evidence," he said.White House press secretary Jen Psaki said Tuesday that the White House supports a new World Health Organization investigation in China, but added it “would require China finally stepping up and allowing access needed to determine the origins.”Biden, for his part, held out the possibility that a firm conclusion may never be known, given the Chinese government's refusal to fully cooperate with international investigations.“The failure to get our inspectors on the ground in those early months will always hamper any investigation into the origin of Covid-19,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/biden-asks-us-intel-officials-to-investigate-covid-19-origin-amid-wuhan-lab-controversy-101622049636352.html
26-05-2021||World||Former South Africa President Zuma accused of taking 'hundreds of bribes'||Former South African President Jacob Zuma accepted more than 700 bribes over the course of a decade before he was president, including cash payments from French arms company Thales, prosecutors alleged on the first day of Zuma's corruption trial on Wednesday.Zuma, the president of Africa's most developed economy from 2009 until he was forced out amid other graft scandals in 2018, was charged with multiple counts of corruption, as well as racketeering, fraud, tax evasion, and money laundering. He pleaded not guilty to all counts and claimed the trial was politically motivated.Also Read | Corruption trial against South African ex-President Jacob Zuma to start in MayThe 79-year-old Zuma, who wore a blue suit, red tie, and a face mask in court, also filed papers asking for the chief prosecutor to be removed from the case, claiming he was biased. The judge said he would consider Zuma's application.Zuma could be jailed for 25 years if convicted.After the trial was adjourned until July 19, Zuma addressed hundreds of his supporters outside the courthouse.“I have never taken anything from anyone. I have done nothing wrong,” he said.The corruption charges relate to the time before Zuma was head of state but a political figure on the rise, and include the period when he was deputy president of South Africa from 1999 to 2005.Prosecutors alleged he received bribes from various sources, not just Thales, between 1995 and 2005. During those years, he progressed from provincial politician to deputy president of the ruling African National Congress party, and then deputy president of the country.Thales is also facing charges at the trial and pleaded not guilty to racketeering and money laundering. Together, Zuma and Thales face 18 charges. The trial was postponed until July 19.Prosecutors said Zuma and Thales were involved in what was effectively an organized criminal enterprise between 1995 and 2001. Zuma agreed to accept annual payments of around $40,000 from Thales, prosecutors alleged, in return for him providing “political protection” and ensuring there was no investigation into a major arms deal Thales secured with the South African government. The deal was signed in 1999 while clouded by allegations of graft.Zuma was first formally implicated by prosecutors over the deal in 2005 and fired as deputy president as a result. The charges were dropped and reinstated numerous times over the next 13 years amid allegations of political interference. Meanwhile, Zuma revived his political career to become South African president just four years after being fired as deputy president.The charges were reinstated by the National Prosecuting Authority in 2018 and Zuma finally answered to them Wednesday in a courthouse in the eastern city of Pietermaritzburg, 16 years after he was first linked to the case.In the indictment, prosecutors provided a list of 791 payments made either directly to Zuma's bank accounts or to others for services on behalf of Zuma between October 1995 and June 2005. The money came from companies connected to Zuma's former financial advisor, who was convicted of corruption in 2005. The advisor is accused of soliciting bribes for Zuma from Thales and being the go-between, but also of bribing Zuma for his own business interests.Some of the payments were for as little as $7 and others for as much as $28,000. They were listed in bank records as “Zuma family costs," "Zuma children education" and “Zuma household costs,” among other descriptions, prosecutors said. They totaled nearly $300,000. It was unclear if those payments included any of the alleged bribes from Thales.Zuma, who faces separate allegations of graft while he was president at an ongoing inquiry, has often characterized accusations of corruption against him as politically motivated. He even claimed in his papers seeking the removal of chief trial prosecutor Billy Downer that South African prosecution officials had colluded with foreign intelligence agencies over the years to frame him.While it appears none of Zuma's alleged involvement in graft while president will form part of this trial, he is already facing allegations at the separate judicial inquiry that he oversaw massive levels of corruption while president. Zuma has refused to testify at that inquiry despite an order to do so, leading the judge in charge to ask a court to send him to jail for two years for contempt of court. (AP) AMS||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/former-south-africa-president-zuma-accused-of-taking-hundreds-of-bribes-101622048813386.html
26-05-2021||World||French social media influencers offered money to discredit Pfizer vaccine. Some claim Russia behind it||Several European influencers have claimed that they have been offered money by a communications agency to discredit the Covid-19 vaccine developed by Pfizer-BioNTech. They were asked to create videos for YouTube, Instagram and other social media platforms questioning the safety and efficacy of the vaccine. One influencer told French TV that he was offered about $2,500 for a video.French YouTuber Léo Grasset, whose popular science channel has nearly 1.2 million subscribers, recently shared the information about the “strange” proposal he received and posted screenshots of the request from his Twitter handle. Grasset said that the agency, posing as based in London, informed him about their “colossal budget” and asked to hide the sponsorship details if he accepts the offer.“Present the material natively. Act like you have the passion and interest in this topic. Present the material as your own independent thought,” the screenshot read.The agency, as per the screenshot, requested Grasset to falsely claim that the death rate among those vaccinated with Pfizer-BioNtech vaccine is almost three times higher than those with AstraZeneca vaccine. “Put a question like ‘Why some governments actively purchasing Pfizer vaccine, which is dangerous to health of the people?’” it said.Grasset later informed his followers that the address of the “London agency” was bogus since there is an “aesthetic laser centre”. He also noticed that all the employees said to be working for the agency had “weird” LinkedIn profiles, which he found had now disappeared, and everyone had worked in Russia in the past.“Unbelievable. The address of the London agency that contacted me is bogus. They never had premises there, it is an aesthetic laser centre! All employees have weird LinkedIn profiles ... which have been missing since this morning. Everyone has worked in Russia before,” he tweeted.According to a Wall Street Journal report, French counterintelligence authorities are investigating whether the Russian government is in any way involved in the attempt to create doubt about the vaccine widely used in the United States and Europe. French health minister Olivier Véran slammed the effort to discredit the vaccine, calling it “dangerous” and “irresponsible”."I do not know where it comes from, I do not know if it comes from France or from abroad", as Véran on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/french-social-media-influencers-offered-money-to-discredit-pfizer-vaccine-101622048533442.html
26-05-2021||World||In Brazil, traveller diagnosed with Covid-19 variant found in India||A traveler arriving in Brazil has been diagnosed with the B.1.617.2 coronavirus strain from India, Sao Paulo health officials said on Wednesday, adding to concerns about the new strain fueling one of the world's deadliest outbreaks.Brazil has lost more than 450,000 lives to COVID-19, the worst death toll outside the United States, and has struggled to contain transmission of homegrown variants or to accelerate a sputtering vaccination campaign.Following the treatment of crew members who contracted the B.1.617.2 variant on a cargo ship on Brazil's northern coast last week, the case confirmed on Wednesday raised alarms about the new variant passing through two of the country's busiest airports.The 32-year-old patient, a resident of Campos dos Goytacazes in Rio de Janeiro state, landed at Guarulhos International Airport near Sao Paulo on May 22, state officials said.The passenger was tested for COVID-19 by federal health agency Anvisa, but by the time Sao Paulo authorities were informed of the positive result, he had flown onward to Rio de Janeiro, according to a statement from state officials.Sao Paulo's Adolfo Lutz Institute received the test material and announced the result of the sequencing on Wednesday.Sao Paulo health authorities said they requested a complete list of the passengers on the flight coming from India, as well as the names of all airport staff and other people who may have had contact with the passenger, for monitoring and isolation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/in-brazil-traveller-diagnosed-with-covid-19-variant-found-in-india-101622044156300.html
26-05-2021||World||Joe Biden nominates Indian-American Arun Venkataraman as head of US Foreign Commercial Service||US President Joe Biden on Wednesday nominated Indian-American Arun Venkataraman for the Director-General of the United States and Foreign Commercial Service and the Assistant Secretary for Global Markets in the Department of Commerce.According to a White House readout, Venkataraman has over 20 years of experience advising companies, international organisations and the US government on international trade issues.He is currently the Counselor to the Secretary of Commerce, advising the Department on trade and other international economic matters. Before joining the Biden-Harris Administration, Arun was a Senior Director at Visa, a leading global government engagement strategy on a range of international policy issues including digital economy, trade, tax and sanctions.As the first-ever Director of Policy at the Department of Commerce's International Trade Administration under President Obama, Venkataraman helped shape the US government's responses to critical challenges faced by firms in the US and in markets around the world, including China and India.While working at the Office of the US Trade Representative (USTR), the Indian-American adviser led the development and implementation of US-India trade policy as the Director for India, for which he received the agency's Kelly Award for outstanding performance and extraordinary leadership.He also served as Associate General Counsel, representing the US in litigation before the World Trade Organisation (WTO) and in negotiations on international trade agreements.Venkataraman has previously served as a Legal Officer at the WTO, advising the organisation on a wide range of issues raised in appeals of trade disputes between countries.Meanwhile, five other individuals were nominated by Biden to serve in key administration roles - including Brian Nelson for Under Secretary for Terrorism and Financial Intelligence in the Department of the Treasury, Lisa Brown for General Counsel of the Department of Education and Matt Olsen for Assistant Attorney General, National Security Division in the Department of Justice. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/joe-biden-nominates-indian-american-arun-venkataraman-as-head-of-us-foreign-commercial-service-101622045852898.html
26-05-2021||World||Several killed in shooting at San Jose railyard in California; suspect dead||Gunfire erupted Wednesday at a railyard in San Jose, and a sheriff’s spokesman said multiple people were killed and wounded and that the suspect was dead.Santa Clara County sheriff’s spokesman Deputy Russell Davis said that he could not specify the number of dead and wounded or describe how the suspect died.The shooting took place at a light rail facility that is next door to the sheriff’s department and across a freeway from the airport. The facility is a transit control center that stores trains and has a maintenance yard.The victims include Valley Transportation Authority employees, Davis said.The VTA provides bus, light rail and other transit services throughout Santa Clara County, the largest in the Bay Area and home to Silicon Valley.A spokesperson for the agency did not immediately respond to multiple requests for comment.“Our hearts are pained for the families of those we have lost in this horrific shooting,” San Jose Mayor Sam Liccardo said on Twitter.Gov. Gavin Newsom said in a tweet that his office was “in close contact with local law enforcement and monitoring this situation closely.”Special agents from the FBI and the federal Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives were responding to the crime scene, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/gunfire-erupts-at-san-jose-railyard-in-california-several-hurt-101622042690712.html
26-05-2021||World||UK health minister should have been fired over Covid, says Johnson's ex-adviser||British health minister Matt Hancock should have been fired for lying in government meetings on Covid-19, Prime Minister Boris Johnson's former top adviser Dominic Cummings said on Wednesday."I think that the Secretary of State for Health (Hancock), should have been fired for at least 15, 20 things including lying to everybody on multiple occasions, in meeting after meeting in the cabinet room, and publicly," Cummings told a parliamentary committee.Neither Hancock's department or his adviser responded to a request for comment.Cummings said he had told Johnson to fire Hancock. Johnson's spokesman said the PM had full confidence in his health minister."They've been fully focused on protecting the health and care system and saving lives," the spokesman said adding that the government would not respond to individual accusations about Hancock's conduct.Cummings, asked for an example, said Hancock had said that all patients got the treatment they needed during the first peak of the virus even though the government's health experts had said some patients had not received the necessary treatment.He also said Hancock had told ministers the supply of personal protective equipment was under control in April, but that had later proved not to have been the case.Cummings, who said Johnson had come close to removing Hancock from his job in April last year, criticised the health minister's role in the establishment of an expanded coronavirus testing system.He also told the committee that the country's top civil servant had told him he had lost confidence in Hancock's honesty, and had also relayed those concerns to Johnson.Asked in parliament whether those concerns had been relayed to him by the head of the civil service, Mark Sedwill, Johnson said: "The answer to that is no ... and I'm afraid I haven't had the benefit of seeing the evidence that he's (Cummings) bringing to the house."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-health-minister-should-have-been-fired-over-covid-says-johnson-s-exadviser-101622038554173.html
26-05-2021||World||China will donate 1 million doses of Covid-19 vaccines to Nepal: President Xi Jinping||Chinese President Xi Jinping on Wednesday announced a donation of one million doses of Covid-19 vaccines for Nepal, which is facing a severe shortage of jabs for providing the second shots to more than one million people. Xi announced the provision of the vaccines as grant assistance during a phone conversation with his Nepalese counterpart Bidya Devi Bhandari, according to a statement from Nepal’s foreign ministry. China had provided 800,000 doses of Sinopharm’s BBIBP-CorV vaccine to Nepal in March. The Chinese assistance comes at a time when Nepal is grappling with a second wave of Coronavirus infections, with 6,677 new cases reported since Tuesday to take the national tally to 535,525. The country’s death toll is nearly 6,900. Xi acknowledged the difficulties Nepal has been facing due to the second wave of the pandemic and expressed his government’s full support for the fight against Covid-19, the statement said. “During the conversation, the Chinese President announced that China will provide additional 1 million doses of Covid-19 vaccine to Nepal as grant assistance. President Xi also assured that Nepal will remain on a priority of China in vaccine support and cooperation,” the statement added. Bhandari’s conversation with Xi came days after she wrote a letter to her Indian counterpart Ram Nath Kovind to take initiatives to ensure vaccines for Nepal, The Kathmandu Post reported. Nepal had been looking for commercial supplies from Serum Institute of India (SII) and vaccines from the WHO-backed COVAX facility to meet most of its needs for plans to inoculate more than 70% of the population of some 30 million. However, Nepal has struggled to procure vaccines since India restricted exports in late March to cope with its own devastating second wave of infections. A priority for Nepal has been the supply of two million doses of the Covishield vaccine under a commercial contract finalised with SII earlier this year. SII has so far supplied one million doses and the remainder has been held up despite Nepal making 80% of the payment in advance, Nepalese officials have said. India also provided 1.1 million doses of Covishield as grant assistance in January and March and Nepal received another 348,000 doses of Covishield from COVAX in March. Some 1.3 million people above the age of 65 were given the first shot between March 7 and 15, and Nepalese officials have said the process of giving them the second shot has already been delayed by more than a week in view of original plans for the booster shot to be given eight weeks after the first jab. COVAX recently informed the Nepal government that further supplies of Covishield from the facility are unlikely before next year, according to media reports.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-will-donate-1-million-doses-of-covid-19-vaccines-to-nepal-president-xi-jinping-101622042234269.html
26-05-2021||World||Facebook, Instagram will now let users hide 'like' counts on posts||If you post a photo to social media and you don't know how many people liked it, did you really post it?Instagram and Facebook users can now find out. Beginning Wednesday, those on both services will be able to hide the numbers that show how many people liked their posts and photos.Instagram began hiding likes in 2019 as part of an effort to make people's time on the app less stressful and depressing. While many users welcomed the feature, others, including some influencers, worried it might take away from the social media experience. At the time, the platform didn’t give users a choice to hide or unhide the like counts, which didn't sit well with some users.Now, after a test the company announced last month, users will be able to flip a switch that hides public like counts. Instead of a number telling you how many people liked your latest puppy photo, you'll see “liked by Beyoncé and others" (if Beyoncé and others did, in fact, like your photo).To hide like counts on Instagram, you can go to your settings and click on the “posts" section. If you choose to turn off like counts here, it will apply to all your posts. In addition, you will also be able to hide the counts for individual posts before you share them.You can also choose to hide like counts before sharing a post. You can turn this setting on or off, even after it goes live.The feature will be available to Instagram users beginning on Wednesday and to Facebook users in the coming weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/facebook-instagram-will-now-let-users-hide-like-counts-on-posts-101622036254439.html
26-05-2021||World||Covid-19: Sri Lanka to lift ban on incoming travellers from June 1||Sri Lanka on Wednesday announced the lifting of its temporary travel ban on inbound travellers from June 1, except for passengers who spent time in India during the last 14 days.All incoming flights, however, will be limited to a maximum of 75 passengers and they will be subjected to a 14 day quarantine period."Any passenger with a travel history to India including transit in the past 14 days will not be permitted to arrive," the civil aviation office said in a statement.Foreign nationals, seafarers, businessmen, investors and others are required to obtain approval from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to enter the island along with the entry visa.A negative PCR test must be taken by all categories of travellers before departure point of origin as per airline or country requirements. And all passengers must adhere to the paid quarantine procedure."The Colombo airport was acting as a transit hub for Indians travelling to West Asia, but the facility was withdrawn in early May due to the current surge in the pandemic.Before the current wave, Sri Lanka and India were making arrangements for a tourism travel bubble.India remained Sri Lanka's top inbound travel market before the onset of the pandemic.Sri Lanka has reported 1.7 lakh COVID-19 cases so far with 1,269 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid19-sri-lanka-to-lift-ban-on-incoming-travellers-from-june-1-101622038047417.html
26-05-2021||World||US citizenship agency eyes improved service without plan to pay||Less than a year after being on the verge of furloughing about 70% of employees to plug a funding shortfall, the U.S. agency that grants citizenship wants to improve service without a detailed plan to pay for it, including waivers for those who can’t afford fees, according to a proposal obtained by The Associated Press.The Homeland Security Department sent its 14-page plan to enhance procedures for becoming a naturalized citizen to the White House for approval on April 21. It involves U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, which is part of Homeland Security and operates entirely on fees.The plan describes changes that reflect “a realistic assessment of our aspirations and limitations,” including more video instead of in-person applicant interviews, authorizing employees to administer citizenship oaths versus relying on federal judges, and promoting online filing to reduce processing times.Homeland Security says it can be done without the approval of Congress, where consensus on immigration has proven elusive.Taken together, the changes mark a complete break from the Trump administration, when the agency focused on combatting fraud and adjusted to shrinking immigration benefits.The plan also seeks to give potential U.S. citizens the benefit of the doubt. For instance, it specifies that an immigrant who mistakenly registers to vote in U.S. elections before becoming a citizen won’t be punished. Doing so now can lead to deportation or criminal charges, likely ending a person’s chance for citizenship.The issue has been in the spotlight amid a recent surge in automatic voter registration and former President Donald Trump’s repeated unsubstantiated claims that millions of people voted illegally in 2016. Last year, Illinois’ automatic voter registration program mistakenly registered hundreds of people who said they weren’t U.S. citizens. At least one voted.The agency will improve the citizenship process to “encourage full participation in our civic life and democracy” and to deliver services effectively and efficiently, according to the document.It doesn’t provide cost estimates for the proposed changes, though there are options on the table and some measures appear designed to save money and achieve efficiencies. It also acknowledges success depends on long-term financial stability, which includes asking Congress for money.Under the plan, the agency would continue subsidizing the costs of becoming a citizen to make sure the process is available to as many people as possible. The administration “recognizes that the cost of fees can be a barrier” so "other fee-paying applicants and petitioners will continue to subsidize this policy decision to ensure full cost recovery,” the document reads.Asked about the status of the proposal, U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services said it's reviewing policies and practices.“Under the Biden Administration, the agency has made considerable strides in reallocating our resources and priorities to fulfill this mission and address challenges like the ones caused by the COVID-19 pandemic," spokesman Joe Sowers said in a statement Tuesday. "Ultimately, USCIS is committed to administering our nation’s legal immigration system in a way that empowers immigrants to pursue citizenship and the privileges that accompany it.”Immigration attorneys called the proposed changes a welcomed shift after the Trump administration.Sharvari Dalal-Dheini, director of government relations for the American Immigration Attorneys Association, said expanding video interviews would be more efficient and convenient for people far from immigration offices, some of which continue to operate at reduced capacity because of the pandemic.“They have a huge backlog they need to work out of,” she said. “Having those creative solutions, will help them dig out of that backlog.”Danielle Spooner, head of the union representing agency workers, said video would benefit employees who've been working from home, but administering the oath, a once-in-a-lifetime experience, should be left to judges.Questions about how the agency would fund the changes made her uneasy, saying employee morale remains low since last summer's near financial catastrophe.That's when the agency threatened more than 13,000 furloughs to tackle a projected $1.26 billion shortfall. But a few tense months later, it said it didn't need the money after all and would end the year with a surplus. Agency leaders said application fees rebounded more than expected as offices reopened from coronavirus shutdowns and contracts were reviewed for cost savings.The anticipated shortfall first surfaced in November 2019, when the agency proposed major fee increases — well before COVID-19 threatened finances.The budget whiplash raised doubts about how the agency's finances deteriorated so rapidly then suddenly recovered. Ur Jaddou, who was nominated by President Joe Biden in April to lead the agency and has a Wednesday hearing before the Senate Judiciary Committee, was among those with questions.Jaddou, who served as the agency's chief counsel under President Barack Obama, said in October that the agency needed a financial audit. She questioned some Trump administration changes, including justification for a major expansion of an anti-fraud unit, since abandoned by Biden.“It really is a bunch of bureaucratic red tape,” she said when discussing agency financial woes.Fees were set to increase by an average of 20% last October but a federal judge blocked them. The wait to process a citizenship application grew to more than a year by the end of Trump's presidency from less than eight months four years earlier.Emilio Gonzalez, a former agency director who oversaw massive fee hikes under the second Bush administration, said the agency should avoid going to lawmakers for funding.“By having your own budget, you can be very nimble,” he said. “Losing your budget leaves you at the whim of Congress and all of a sudden immigration gets politicized.”One potential avenue for boosting revenue is expanding the use of so-called “premium processing.” For a hefty fee, it allows limited applicants a 15-day turnaround on some paperwork. Under emergency legislation in October, the agency raised it from $1,440 to $2,500 and allowed revenues to be used for operating expenses. USCIS appears on board, allowing the expedited option in February to some Australian nationals.Broadening it to more eligible forms could generate up to $626 million annually, according to an analysis co-authored by Doug Rand, a former Obama administration official who founded an organization that helps people with immigration.“When USCIS is plagued with problems and not delivering the services it is supposed to in a reasonable time, that’s not just bad news for immigrants, it is bad news for U.S. citizens navigating the system,” Rand said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-citizenship-agency-eyes-improved-service-without-plan-to-pay-101622032472093.html
26-05-2021||World||Russia seeks to outmuscle US in Arctic with northern military base||"The enemy shall not pass," exclaims commander Ivan Glushchenko, standing in the glistening white snow that surrounds an ultra-modern Russian military base in the heart of the Arctic, the site of Moscow's stand-off with NATO.The growing accessibility of natural resources and navigation routes in this rapidly thawing region has attracted global competition, and Moscow's interests clash with those of several other countries, including the United States.These tensions are likely to resurface in Reykjavik Wednesday at a ministerial meeting of the Arctic Council -- comprising Russia, the United States, Canada, Norway, Denmark, Sweden, Finland and Iceland.Ahead of the meeting, where Russia will assume the rotating chairmanship, AFP journalists visited Russia's "Arctic Trefoil", its northernmost military base located on the remote Franz Josef Land archipelago in the Arctic Ocean.On the island of Alexandra Land, inhabited only by military personnel and covered by permafrost, Russian forces are stationed in a clover-shaped complex painted in the colours of the Russian flag: white, blue and red.Built on the ruins of an old Soviet site, the complex now covers more than 14,000 square metres (150,000 square feet) and is capable of sustaining itself independently for over a year.The base is equipped with necessities such as an electric power station, and water purification and heating systems. It also has a clinic, gym, cinema, sauna and even a church.- 'Like a space station' -All the facilities are linked by heated tunnels, allowing the 150 or so servicemen to avoid the harsh weather outside, where temperatures can drop to a chilling -42 degrees Celsius (-43 degrees Fahrenheit)."This complex is like a space station, the only difference being that it is not in orbit but in the Arctic desert," says General Igor Churkin, one of the commanders of Russia's Northern Fleet that occupies the base.Despite the strong winds and brutal weather conditions, the base also has a giant airfield. It was from there that two MiG-31 fighter jets, one of the fastest aircraft in the world, completed a flight over the North Pole in March, a first for the Russian navy.The base also boasts a Bastion coastal defence system with a range of 360 kilometres (220 miles). It has demonstrated its reliability in the extreme weather conditions of the Arctic, says commander Balabek Eminov.As Moscow seeks to assert its influence in the Arctic, military disputes have intensified in recent years, with both Russian and NATO forces carrying out manoeuvres to display their ambitions.Glushchenko, one of the base's officers, says his men spotted a Norwegian reconnaissance plane earlier that week.Although it passed without violating the border, the Russian forces sent one of their aircraft to "accompany" it for a few hours.- 'Provocative' actions -US and NATO forces are conducting manoeuvres in the Arctic with increasing regularity, according to Alexander Moiseyev, the commander of the Northern Fleet."We had not seen this since the end of the Second World War," he says, speaking from aboard a nuclear battlecruiser in the port of Severomorsk, a closed city on Russia's Arctic coast and the base of the Northern Fleet.He denounces Washington's "provocative" actions in the region, such as its strategic bomber flights close to Russian borders, and the deployment of US ships to the Barents Sea and off the coast of NATO member Norway.Russia has also bolstered its military presence in recent years, in particular by deploying its state-of-the-art S-400 air defence systems to the region.As ice cover in the Arctic decreases, Russia is also hoping to gain economic influence and make use of the Northern Sea Route shipping channel to export oil and gas to overseas markets.Russia has invested heavily to develop the route, which cuts the journey to Asian ports by 15 days compared with using the traditional Suez Canal route.Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov on Monday warned other countries of staking claims in the Artic."This is our land and our waters," he stressed.Lavrov is expected to hold his first face-to-face meeting with US counterpart Antony Blinken on the sidelines of the Arctic Council summit at a time of spiralling tensions between Moscow and Washington.But for the soldiers stationed at the "Arctic Trefoil" invasions are so far limited to the appearance of polar bears. Officer Sergei Murzayev says he has seen three in his two-and-a-half years there.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/russia-seeks-to-outmuscle-us-in-arctic-with-northern-military-base-101622033523513.html
26-05-2021||World||France to impose mandatory quarantine for UK to curb spread of Covid variant||France will impose a mandatory quarantine on visitors from Britain to prevent the spread of a worrying virus variant first detected in India, the French government said Wednesday.Government spokesman Gabriel Attal said the new measure will be similar to limits imposed in Germany on people traveling from the UK. “France is going to take similar measures and so put in place obligatory isolation for people who come from the United Kingdom," he said.He didn't say when the quarantine will be introduced. He said more information would be released shortly.From Sunday, Germany started requiring people arriving from the UK to go into quarantine for 14 days. The decision responded to the spread in Britain of the Indian variant.Under Germany's tighter rules, airlines and others are also only be able to transport German citizens and residents from Britain.The possibility of tighter French restrictions for British visitors was first raised Sunday by Foreign Minister Jean-Yves Le Drian.The minister suggested that Britain could be put in a health category of its own, somewhere in between the strictest measures that France is imposing on visitors from India and 15 other countries, and more relaxed requirements being readied for visitors from the European Union and some other countries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/france-to-impose-mandatory-quarantine-for-uk-to-curb-spread-of-covid-variant-101622033707536.html
26-05-2021||World||EU seeks fine from Covid vaccine maker AstraZeneca for alleged contract breach||A lawyer for the European Union accused AstraZeneca on Wednesday of failing to respect its contract with the 27-nation bloc for the supply of Covid-19 vaccines and asked a Belgian court to impose a large fine on the company.The EU took the Anglo-Swedish firm to court in April after the drugmaker said it would aim to deliver only 100 million doses of its vaccine by the end of June, instead of the 300 million foreseen in the supply contract.Brussels wants the company to deliver at least 120 million vaccines by the end of June. AstraZeneca had delivered 50 million doses at the beginning of May, one-fourth of the 200 million vaccines foreseen in the contract by then."AstraZeneca did not even try to respect the contract," the EU's lawyer, Rafael Jafferali, told a Brussels court in the first hearing on the substance of the legal case.He said the EU was seeking 10 euros ($12.2) for each day of delay for each dose as compensation for AstraZeneca's non-compliance with the EU contract. This penalty would apply from July 1, 2021, if the judge accepted it.The EU lawyer said the EU was seeking an additional penalty of at least 10 million euros for each breach of the contract that the judge may decide.A verdict is expected next month.NOT A CONTRACT FOR SHOES"This is not a contract for the delivery of shoes or T-shirts," AstraZeneca's lawyer Hakim Boularbah told the court later on Wednesday, stressing the complexity of manufacturing a new vaccine.The company has repeatedly said the contract was not binding as it only committed to make "best reasonable efforts" in delivering doses. AstraZeneca's lawyer told the judge the vaccine was sold at cost.Jafferali said that principle had not been respected because the drugmaker had not delivered to the bloc 50 million doses produced in factories that are listed in the contract as suppliers to the EU, of which 39 million doses manufactured in Britain, 10 million produced in the United States and 1 million in the Netherlands.The lawyer said these doses were "diverted" to other clients.The company has said that doses produced in Britain were reserved under a contract the British government signed with the University of Oxford, which developed the vaccine.Jafferali said AstraZeneca had pledged in the EU contract not to have other engagements that would prevent it from abiding by the terms of the deal.The lawyer also said AstraZeneca had failed to communicate to the EU in a timely manner the magnitude of its supply problems because it repeatedly sent messages, including publicly, that it was able to meet its targets, before finally admitting there were large shortfalls in March.The company had warned the EU in December of production problems, but communicated only at the end of January, just before the start of deliveries, a much larger cut than initially expected for the first-quarter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/eu-seeks-fine-from-covid-vaccine-maker-astrazeneca-for-alleged-contract-breach-101622032364875.html
26-05-2021||World||Former Republican senator John Warner, who married Elizabeth Taylor, dies at 94||Former U.S. Senator John Warner of Virginia, who at times clashed with fellow Republicans during his three decades in office, has died of heart failure. He was 94.Warner died late on Tuesday, with his wife and daughter at his side, his chief of staff Susan Magill said in an email to family and friends, according to a Politico report on Wednesday. The Washington Post said he died in Alexandria, Virginia.Warner was an influential voice in Congress on military policy and served in the U.S. Senate for five terms from 1979 to 2009.A former chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee, Warner openly criticized President George W. Bush's handling of the Iraq War and called on him in 2007 to begin withdrawing American troops from Iraq.The decision put Warner in the center of a growing debate in Congress over the conflict. Warner spent months trying to develop an approach to U.S. policy in Iraq that was supported by Republicans and Democrats.During his time in office, Warner clashed with fellow Republican senators on domestic issues, voting in some cases for government funding of abortions and supporting some gun control measures. In 1994, he refused to support the conservative Republican candidate for Senate, Oliver North.Democratic Senator Tim Kaine of Virginia said he often turned for advice to Warner, whom he called a "public servant who stood on principle, made us proud, and exemplified the best of what politics can be.""He was a Gentleman who maintained civility in his politics in an era of rising intolerance," fellow Virginian U.S. Representative Gerry Connolly, a Democrat, said on Twitter.Warner, who enlisted in the Navy during World War II at the age of 17, also served in the Marine Corps in Korea. He was secretary of the Navy from 1972-74 in President Richard Nixon’s administration.He was the sixth husband of actress Elizabeth Taylor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/former-republican-senator-john-warner-who-married-elizabeth-taylor-dies-at-94-101622032709122.html
26-05-2021||World||Explained: How vaccine passports for global travel will work||Boarding pass, suitcase, passport and ... digital vaccination certificate?Keen to avoid losing another summer of holiday revenue to the coronavirus pandemic, the European Union, some Asian governments and the airline industry are scrambling to develop so-called Covid-19 vaccine passports to help kickstart international travel.They're working on systems that would allow travelers to use mobile phone apps to prove they've been vaccinated, which could help them avoid onerous quarantine requirements at their destinations.But the multiple efforts underscore the lack of one central international system to electronically verify vaccination status. The projects also face technical challenges in working together, while questions about privacy and vaccine inequality linger.Vaccination passports would add another digital layer to the multitude of existing coronavirus health and contact tracing apps many countries and U.S. states have rolled out. Their use domestically to reopen local economies has been hotly debated, with many opposed to requiring them for pubs, concerts and sporting events. However, there's more momentum to use them for international travel, especially as countries like Iceland open their borders to vaccinated visitors and others like Saudi Arabia start allowing vaccinated citizens to travel abroad. The EU's decision last week to open its borders to fully vaccinated travelers adds even more urgency.Here's a look at how vaccine passports work:Official effortsThe first part of a vaccination passport is the user's official or approved electronic immunization record.The European Union, China and Japan are all working on their own digital vaccination certificates for cross-border travel. The U.K., meanwhile, updated its National Health Service app last week to let fully vaccinated users prove their status when traveling abroad, coinciding with an easing of travel rules.Testing is under way for the EU's digital certificate, which will also confirm Covid-19 test results or recovery from the virus and is set to go live by the end of June, allowing residents to reunite with friends and relatives living across 30 European countries. It’s still unclear where and how exactly travelers in the EU, which doesn’t have internal border checkpoints, will have their certificates checked. Officials in Brussels say that will be up to individual countries. The idea is that travelers will flash a QR code on their phones so it can be scanned at, say, an airport or train station, using an official verification app that checks with national databases, via an EU technical “gateway.”The World Health Organization doesn’t recommend vaccination proof as a requirement for international travel, citing unequal distribution of vaccines, even as it consults on interim guidance for developing a “Smart Vaccination Certificate.”Travel AppsTravelers also need a smartphone app to carry any eventual official vaccination certificates.The EU's project includes open source technology European countries can use to build their own official mobile wallets.The International Air Transport Association, an airline industry group, has its smartphone IATA Travel Pass, which airlines including Qantas, Japan Airlines, Emirates, British Airways and Virgin Atlantic have signed up to. A rival effort, the nonprofit CommonPass, has gained traction with carriers like Cathay Pacific, JetBlue, United and Lufthansa.Travelers can already use the apps to verify that their Covid-19 test results are accepted at their destination. Travel Pass and CommonPass are so far only available to travelers on airlines that are using them. Both can also be integrated into airline travel apps so users can verify their vaccine status when they check in online. Both are also expected to work with the EU certificates. CommonPass says users will be able to import vaccine credentials by mid-June.Amid a pandemic-dimmed travel outlook, CommonPass CEO Paul Meyer said vaccine passports will only become more widespread. “Our expectation is it will remain a requirement for international travel."What Travelers WantBusiness travelers like British public relations executive Richard Fogg welcome vaccine passports. Fogg's firm scaled back plans to attend a major telecom trade show in Barcelona next month, given quarantine rules for people returning to the U.K.“Those 10 days of quarantine will have negative business implications – there’s no way around it,” Fogg said, while acknowledging tradeoffs including concerns about data privacy.Eymeric Segard, CEO of Geneva-based private jet broker Lunajets, noted travelers already hand over passports with personal data on arrival.“Personally, you know, I would be happy to tell anybody, yes, I am vaccinated or no I’m not vaccinated," he said, adding that vaccine passports would help avoid the “logistical nightmare" of multiple Covid-19 tests Europeans face when visiting other EU countries.What About Fakes?Phony paper Covid-19 document s sold by fraudsters have been a problem during the pandemic but developers say digital versions have safeguards that make them hard to fake.IATA says it doesn’t verify test results or vaccination status but acts as the conduit for registered labs to securely send those details to travelers whose identity the app can match to the person who took the test or vaccination. The app scans a traveler's face using the phone camera and matches it to passport biometric details, and there are checks to prevent someone else using their identity.Security and PrivacyVaccination passports are a polarizing topic, with online discussion highlighting unfounded fears that they’ll be used to control people, restrict freedom and erode privacy. Developers stress that minimal personal data is kept on phones, and the only thing that gets transmitted are encryption keys allowing information to be exchanged securely.“If done correctly, this doesn’t bring an additional level of privacy risk because you’re just putting in a credential status of yes or no,” said Kevin Trilli, chief product officer at ID verification company Onfido, which is working on vaccination cards technology.There's also the question of how well various vaccine credential systems will work together and whether countries will recognize each others' certificates. The U.K. government has warned that not many countries currently accept proof of vaccination from travelers.“You can’t have an interoperable system on day zero,” but over time the kinks will be worked out, which helps lay the groundwork for the next pandemic, Trilli said.What about people who don’t have smartphones? Or families that don't have a device for each member? IATA and EU officials say they're are working on solutions, including paper-based options.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/explained-how-vaccine-passports-for-global-travel-will-work-101622024718722.html
26-05-2021||World||Solar eclipse to occur on June 10, some regions to witness 'ring eclipse'||After witnessing a super blood moon during the lunar eclipse on Wednesday, the world is ready for the solar eclipse on June 10. It will be an annular eclipse in many parts of the world, with the Sun and Moon being exactly in line with the Earth. The upcoming solar eclipse is getting a lot of attention since it is dubbed as 'ring eclipse', a phenomenon when the Sun appears as a very bright ring surrounding the dark disk of the Moon.A total solar eclipse also requires the Moon and the Sun to be in the direct line of the Earth. However, it is visible from a small area since people who see the total eclipse are in the centre of the Moon's shadow when it hits Earth. An annular eclipse differs from a total eclipse based on the distance of the Moon from the Earth. It occurs when the Moon is farthest from Earth, which makes it look smaller than usual and does not block the entire view of the Sun.Also Read | Four eclipses in 2021, two to be visible in IndiaMuch of Europe, Asia and North America, Atlantic, Arctic regions will witness at least a partial eclipse. While the eclipse will not be visible from India, except in some parts of Ladakh and Arunachal Pradesh, people can see the eclipse via a live webcam. Some parts of Canada, Russia, and Greenland will witness an annular eclipse. Major global cities like New York, Washington DC, London, and Toronto, will see a partial eclipse, with New York to witness more than 70 per cent coverage of the Sun.Unlike lunar eclipses, solar eclipses last only a few minutes and eclipse enthusiasts should never look directly at the Sun. They are advised to use proper safety equipment to look at any type of solar eclipse.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/solar-eclipse-to-occur-on-june-10-some-regions-to-witness-ring-eclipse-101622030014637.html
26-05-2021||World||Over a million smokers die annually in China: Report||More than one million people die in China annually because of diseases caused by smoking and the number could double by 2030, a joint report by the World Health Organisation (WHO) and China said on Wednesday.The report said that there were more than 300 million cigarette smokers in China.“About 26.6% of Chinese people aged 15 and above are smokers, and of this age group, more than half of men smoke cigarettes,” the report, quoted by official media, said.The annual report, for the first time this year, added a new health hazard section for e-cigarettes.It added that the number could double if current smoking trends continued.The report was jointly released by the WHO’s China office and China’s national health commission (NHC) in Beijing on Wednesday.The Healthy China 2030 strategy set a goal of reducing the rate of smokers aged 15 and above by 20% before 2030.The Healthy China Action Plan (2019-30) released by the Healthy China Promotion Committee listed tobacco control as one of its priorities.The report was released ahead of the 34th World No Tobacco Day, which falls on May 31.“Reducing smoking rates requires the joint efforts of governments, society, families and individuals to create a smoke-free environment for smokers to help them quit smoking,” Wu Xiangtian deputy director of the NHC’s planning department said.Titled the “China Smoking Harm Health Report 2020” updated the global scientific basis for the association between smoking and secondhand exposure to the four major chronic diseases, namely chronic respiratory diseases, malignant tumours, cardiovascular diseases, and diabetes.“At the same time, Report 2020 adds a new health hazard section for e-cigarettes,” the WHO said.Earlier this year, a Chinese parliamentarian proposed a nationwide ban on smoking in indoor places and suggested that a national law be enacted to protect the health of non-smokers.The proposal was put forward by Chen Jingyu, a cardiothoracic surgery expert and vice president of Wuxi People’s Hospital in eastern China’s Jiangsu province, and a deputy at the 13th National People’s Congress (NPC).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/over-a-million-smokers-die-annually-in-china-report-101622030653730.html
26-05-2021||World||Florida firefighting helicopter crashes; no survivors found||A firefighting helicopter with four people on board crashed near an airport in central Florida, killing at least one person, officials said.The helicopter crashed into a marsh near Leesburg International Airport during a training exercise around 4 p.m. Tuesday, the Federal Aviation Administration said in a news release.One body was recovered Tuesday night and no survivors had been found, Leesburg Fire Rescue said in a Facebook post.“The crash appears to be a total loss,” the post said.Hours after the crash, rescue crews were still trying to get to the wreckage to see if there were any survivors, Leesburg police Capt. Joe Iozzi said, according to the Orlando Sentinel.The FAA and National Transportation Safety Board will investigate. Officials did not immediately release additional information.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/florida-firefighting-helicopter-crashes-no-survivors-found-101622024705069.html
26-05-2021||World||Why is Chinese state media targeting Fauci amid Wuhan lab controversy? All you need to know||The recent remark by top US infectious disease expert Dr Anthony Fauci on the origins of novel coronavirus SARS-CoV-2 has drawn the ire of the Chinese state media. Hu Xijin, editor-in-chief of Global Times, wrote a blistering opinion piece on Tuesday, accusing Dr Fauci of attempting to hype “the old and groundless narrative” of coronavirus leaking from a Wuhan laboratory. “In terms of expertise and influence, American experts such as Fauci can hardly match Chinese top experts,” wrote Hu.“American experts are weaker than their Chinese counterparts in understanding the epidemic and influencing the anti-virus fight,” he added.The theories over the origins of coronavirus have been contested since the early days of the outbreak as many experts suggested a possible laboratory accident in the Chinese city of Wuhan, the first epicentre of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. But a global study, convened by the World Health Organization (WHO), deemed it “extremely unlikely”.Why is Dr Fauci 'not convinced'?An international team of experts, who visited Wuhan in January to probe the origins of the virus, identified two most likely scenarios that might have caused SARS-CoV-2 transmission to the human population, including the one involving intermediary host species. At a virtual event titled ‘United Facts of America: A Festival of Fact-Checking’, Fauci was asked whether he was fully convinced with the theory that the virus “developed naturally.”"I am not convinced...I think we should continue to investigate what went on in China until we find out to the best of our ability exactly what happened," said Fauci, director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases."Certainly, the people who investigated it say it likely was the emergence from an animal reservoir that then infected individuals, but it could have been something else, and we need to find that out. So, you know, that’s the reason why I said I’m perfectly in favour of any investigation that looks into the origin of the virus," he added.Watch | ‘Not 100% sure Covid-19 developed naturally’: Dr Anthony FauciUS intelligence report on Wuhan labWhile the comments by Fauci were made on May 11, the footage of the event gained traction after The Wall Street Journal, citing US intelligence, reported that three scientists from the Wuhan Institute of Virology were hospitalised in November 2019. The report was followed by the United States demanding a “transparent” second phase of investigation into the origins of SARS-CoV-2 and the route of introduction to the human population."Phase 2 of the Covid origins study must be launched with terms of reference that are transparent, science-based, and give international experts the independence to fully assess the source of the virus and the early days of the outbreak," US health secretary Xavier Becerra said in a video message at the 74th World Health Assembly (WHA).Another Global Times article called The Wall Street Journal report “an outright lie that came from nowhere.” Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian said that the Wuhan Institute of Virology had not been exposed to Covid-19 before December 30, 2019, and there has been a "zero-infection" record among its staff and graduate students so far. “What is the real purpose for the US to continue to play up the so-called "lab leak theory"? Does it really care about the origin-tracing of the virus or just wants to divert attention?” Zhao asked rhetorically at a press conference.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/why-is-chinese-state-media-targeting-fauci-amid-us-intelligence-on-wuhan-lab-101622023182659.html
26-05-2021||World||Biden set to name close ally as ambassador to India||US President Joe Biden is reportedly ready to name a close political ally Eric Garcetti, current Democratic mayor of Los Angeles, as ambassador to India.Axios, which first reported Biden could pick Garcetti some time ago, said in a report on Tuesday that the president appears to have settled on him for India and an announcement could be made as early as next week, along with other ambassadorial nominations that will be sent together to the Senate for confirmation.Garcetti, 50 was one of the co-chairs of Biden’s presidential campaign and was also part of a panel that the then Democratic nominee had set up to look for his running mate. After the election, Garcetti was named one of the co-chairs of the inauguration committee.The Los Angeles mayor was widely expected to get a cabinet berth and reports had suggested that time he was being considered for secretary housing. But, his chances dimmed after he was seen as being indifferent to allegations of sexual harassment against a top aide, including by a journalist.American presidents are known to send close political allies and donors on ambassadorial assignments. Host countries are most willing to welcome political allies who apparently have the ability to reach the president, or the White House, directly, skipping over the multiple layers of state department bureaucracy.After BA and MA from Columbia University, Garcetti went to Oxford University as a Rhodes Scholar (as former president Bill Clinton) and then went on to the London School of Economics. His website as LA mayor says he is also a jazz pianist (and secretary of state Antony Blinken plays the guitar and has his own band) and a photographer.If named and confirmed by the Senate, Garcetti will succeed Ken Juster, who was sent by former president Donald Trump, and will from New Delhi helm a bilateral relationship that has grown in depth and breadth significantly in recent years, across administrations of both the parties.Picking up from where president Trump left off, President Biden signaled an early commitment to the relationship. Prime Minister Narendra Modi was among the first world leaders he called after moving into the White House and hosted the first summit of the leaders of the Quad, which includes India. Biden dispatched one of his senior cabinet members defence secretary Lloyd Austin to New Delhi as part of first foreign visits by his top officials; invited Modi to a climate summit; backed a proposal by India and South Africa to temporarily waive patent protections for Covid-19 vaccines; and sent $100 million worth of oxygen supplies, PPEs and therapeutics to help India deal with a deadly second wave of Covid-19 cases.Indian external affairs minister S Jaishankar is currently on a five-day tour of the United States and reaches Washington DC on Wednesday for the first in-person engagement by an Indian cabinet member with the Biden administration in the US. He is meeting secretary of state Blinken, national security adviser Jake Sullivan and US trade representative Katherine Tai, and others, including business leaders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/biden-set-to-name-close-ally-as-ambassador-to-india-101622020453329.html
26-05-2021||World||Thailand sees record jump in daily Covid deaths at 41; 2,455 fresh cases added||Thailand on Wednesday reported 41 new deaths, the highest daily death toll since the outbreak of the pandemic, raising the total number of fatalities to 873, according to the country's Public Health Ministry.It also reported 2,455 new infections, of which 16 were imported and 2,439 were local transmissions.Of the local cases, 479 were detected in prisons, from where a new wave of infections among inmates was reported since mid-May.Thailand, which has a population of some 70 million people, has so far registered 137,894 confirmed Covid-19 cases. Of that total, 91,765 patients have fully recovered and been released from hospitals, while 45,256 others are currently hospitalized.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/thailand-sees-record-jump-in-daily-covid-deaths-at-41-2-455-fresh-cases-added-101622019426653.html
26-05-2021||World||Canadian climber critically injured in 1,000-foot fall on Denali||A Canadian climber was in critical condition on Tuesday after he fell nearly 1,000 feet during an expedition on Alaska's Denali mountain, the National Park Service said.Adam Rawski, 31, of Barnaby, British Columbia, was taken off the mountain by helicopter after he took a tumbling fall late Monday from Denali Pass at the 18,200-foot level of Denali, the park service said in a statement.Climbers at the mountain’s 17,200-foot high camp witnessed the fall and guides who responded found Rawski was “unresponsive due to multiple traumatic injuries,” the park service said. He was flown to an Anchorage hospital.Rawski had been descending Denali, which stands at 20,310 feet, when he fell, park spokeswoman Sharon Stiteler said.After climbing was shut down last year due to the coronavirus pandemic, crowds are back on North America's highest peak. There were 382 climbers on the mountain on Tuesday, six of whom had made it to the summit, Stiteler said.Rawski’s fall was this season’s third serious climbing accident in mountainous Denali National Park, though the first on Denali itself.On May 3, a ski mountaineer died after falling into a glacial crevasse in the southeastern part of the park. Ten days later, a climber was killed and his partner injured when they were struck by a block of ice that fell on them while they were ascending a ridge.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/canadian-climber-critically-injured-in-1-000-foot-fall-on-denali-101622014892412.html
26-05-2021||World||NY prosecutors convene grand jury in Trump probe||Manhattan district attorney Cyrus Vance, a Democrat, has convened a grand jury that will decide whether or not to indict former president Donald Trump, executives of his company or the business itself based on evidence brought before it, the Washington Post reported on Tuesday.The grand jury, whose proceedings are not open to public, will meet three days a week. That, Vance has convened the panel is being taken as a sign that his investigations have reached a stage where his prosecutors believe they have enough evidence to seek indictments.If indicted, Trump, who has never been charged criminally, will be the only American president charged with committing a crime. He already holds the dubious distinction of being the only president impeached twice, he picked up the second just days before leaving office in January.Trump dismissed the development as the “continuation of the greatest witch hunt in American history”.“This is purely political, and an affront to the almost 75 million voters who supported me in the presidential election, and it’s being driven by highly partisan Democrat prosecutors,” Trump said. “Our country is broken, our elections are rigged, corrupt, and stolen, our prosecutors are politicised, and I will just have to keep on fighting like I have been for the last five years!”Vance’s criminal investigation is one of the two Trump is facing in New York, where he had lived and worked before moving to Florida. The other is a civil case by New York state attorney general Letitia James that she recently broadened to investigate the Trump Organization in a “criminal capacity”. Both Vance and James are Democrats.Both cases started in 2018, stemming from a congressional testimony given by Michael Cohen, a former Trump lawyer and fixer, after he was convicted of making hush-money payments to women who claimed to have had sexual relations with Trump (Trump has denied those allegations), and for lying to Congress. Cohen told lawmakers the Trump Organization manipulated valuation of its properties and assets to gain favourable loans and decrease tax liability.Vance expanded his probe speedily to look into Trump’s financial records and is reportedly pressuring Trump Organization’s chief financial officer Allen Weisselberg into cooperating against his boss. His former daughter-in-law is, in fact, cooperating with Vance’s office and has turned over copious amounts of documents to his prosecutors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/ny-prosecutors-convene-grand-jury-in-trump-probe-101622008332981.html
26-05-2021||World||John Cena apologies to furious Chinese fans for calling Taiwan a ‘country’||Professional wrestling and F9 star John Cena has had to make a public apology to millions of Chinese fans after calling Taiwan a country, saying the comment was not appropriate.Cena described Taiwan as a country in a promotional video for the movie Fast and Furious 9 earlier this month to a Taiwanese broadcasting channel, triggering a big backlash in China.China regards Taiwan, a self-ruled democracy, a breakaway region and has never ruled out reunification by military force.Following the online backlash, Cena posted a video message in Mandarin on his Twitter-like Weibo account in China on Tuesday, apologising for making the comment.Cena said he was “sorry” for making the mistake without specifically describing what the mistake was.“I made a mistake. I must say right now. It’s so important, I love and respect Chinese people,” Cena said to his 600,000 fans on his Weibo account.“I’m very sorry for my mistakes. Sorry. Sorry. I’m really sorry. You have to understand that I love and respect China and the Chinese people.”Earlier in May, Cena said Taiwan would be the first country where the film, the latest in Hollywood star Vin Diesel-led blockbuster franchise, would be screened.The movie was expected to release on May 18 in Taiwan but was postponed following a surge in Covid-19 cases.Cena’s apology seems to have been made in time.Fast and Furious 9 is raking in the money in China, which, driven by post-pandemic recovery, is now the largest movie market in the world. It surpassed the US last year, making it a critical sector for Hollywood’s big releases.According to Chinese state media, Cena’s apology was welcomed by some Chinese netizens, who said he may have been guided by misinformation.“As Cena said, he is given a lot of information every day, so it’s possible that in the interview in Taiwan, he was deliberately given the wrong information and made a slip of the tongue… but at least he came up and corrected his mistake, rather than hiding and not responding to it,” a Weibo user was quoted as saying by the Global Times.F9 has been leading China’s box office since Monday, the fourth day of its release. “Featuring a new adventure with the leading characters as high-performance drivers, the movie raked in 67 million yuan (about $10.45 million) on Monday, accounting for nearly 72% of the total daily box office sales,” the official news agency Xinhua reported.The film was officially released on the Chinese mainland on May 21. It has earned 990 million yuan ($155 million) as of Tuesday evening.The film worldwide earned $162 million during last weekend, of which a massive $135 million came from China, according to state media.Cena is the latest western star to be criticised by Chinese online nationalists over Taiwan.Last week, The popular Thai drama Girl from Nowhere distributed by Netflix - even though the streaming site is blocked in China - faced backlash in China after showing the Taiwan flag.In the past, China has targeted western entertainers for meeting or interacting with the India-based Tibetan spiritual leader, Dalai Lama.More recently foreign retailers, airlines and hotels have been attacked online in China over Taiwan and on the issue of human rights abuses in Xinjiang and Tibet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/john-cena-apologies-to-furious-chinese-fans-for-calling-taiwan-a-country-101622005994861.html
26-05-2021||World||Jaishankar, Guterres discuss Covid-19 vaccines, Afghanistan||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar has stressed the need for finding “urgent and effective” global vaccine solutions and called for “greater production” and “fairer distribution” in his meeting with UN secretary-general Antonio Guterres.At their first in-person meeting on Tuesday since India began its eighth term as a non-permanent member of the UN Security Council in January, the two leaders also discussed a full range of subjects including climate change, counterterrorism, developments in India’s neighbourhood and underscored the need to adequately protect the “gains” of the last two decades in Afghanistan in the context of US withdrawal of troops.“Discussed the Covid challenge, underlining the importance of finding urgent & effective global vaccine solutions,” Jaishankar wrote on Twitter after the meeting, which was held at the United Nations in New York. “Critical to ramp up the vaccine supply chain to ensure greater production & fairer distribution.”They discussed that the proposal by India and South Africa for TRIPS waiver of Covid-19 vaccine patents can also contribute to greater production and more equity, said a readout of their conversation issued by India. The United States recently announced support for the proposal paving the way for negotiations to start towards adopting a text to that effect.Jaishankar also expressed appreciation of Guterres’s leadership of the United Nations “especially in these challenging times”; and conveyed to him India’s support for a second term. A former Portuguese prime minister, Guterres was elected secretary-general in 2016 and is seeking a second term calling himself a “bridge-builder and an honest broker”.UN spokesperson Stephane Dujarric said the two leaders had a “very good discussion” and “discussed Covid-19, the issue of vaccines, and also a number of other peace and security issues in general”.Jaishankar is on a five-day tour of the United States, with two days in New York and the last two in Washington DC where he is expected to meet secretary of state Antony Blinken, national security adviser Jake Sullivan and other officials for a wide range of discussions, including on Covid-19, increasing cooperation in the Indo-Pacific region and the Quad.At the UN meeting, the two leaders exchanged views on climate action, and minister Jaishankar said, “Greater resources are essential for larger ambitions. Financing will determine our seriousness and credibility.” India has called for increased financing to help developing countries meet their mitigation targets.The two leaders “agreed that greater ambitions required more resources and greater commitment from the developed world”, said the readout.Jaishankar also highlighted India “constructive role” at the UN Security Council and conveyed priorities for India’s presidency of the body for August, which will include “high-level events on maritime security and on technology and peacekeeping”.About “regional challenges” in India’s neighbourhood, the minister shared “concerns about ensuring that the gains of the last two decades in Afghanistan are adequately protected”. President Joe Biden has said all US troops will leave Afghanistan before September 11, the 20th anniversary of the terrorist attacks that brought US-led international forces to the country in search of Al-Qaeda leaders and operatives.He added that countering terrorism and radicalisation “remain priorities for the entire region”.The two leaders also discussed recent developments in Myanmar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/jaishankar-guterres-discuss-covid-19-vaccines-afghanistan-101622003773975.html
26-05-2021||World||Pakistan FM Qureshi rules out providing military bases to US in future||Foreign minister Shah Mehmood Qureshi on Tuesday said in the Senate that Pakistan would not provide its military bases to the United States for future counter-terrorism operations in Afghanistan and also not allow drone attacks inside Pakistan.The foreign minister also rejected as unfounded the reports of providing the US, bases in Pakistan, making it clear that Prime Minister Imran Khan would never provide its bases to the US, nor would allow drone attacks inside Pakistan, reported The News International."I want to assure the House that Pakistan is in safe hands," he remarked.The remarks came after a Pentagon official said that Pakistan had allowed the US military to use its airspace and given ground access so that it could support its presence in Afghanistan.Responding to the concerns of a senator, the Qureshi said, "Because what we were fearing and we still fear and are concerned that a vacuum created in Afghanistan can drag or suck the country back into the decade of 1990s".Qureshi contended that as the US planned to withdraw its remaining troops from Afghanistan by September 11, Pakistan would continue playing its role for advancement of the peace process in that country, reported The News International.Mian Raza Rabbani, ex-chairman Senate, also said that Pakistan should not allow the United States the use of its air and ground facilities for action in Afghanistan and an international mechanism be thrashed out to prevent such circumstances from happening again.Meanwhile, diplomatic sources in Washington told Dawn that Pakistan had always allowed overflights and ground access to the US to facilitate its military presence in Afghanistan and would continue to do so.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pakistan-fm-qureshi-rules-out-providing-military-bases-to-us-in-future-101621997594440.html
26-05-2021||World||Covid-19 variant first detected in India found in at least 53 territories: WHO||The coronavirus variant first detected in India has now been officially recorded in 53 territories, a World Health Organization report showed Wednesday.Additionally, the WHO has received information from unofficial sources that the B.1.617 variant has been found in seven other territories, figures in the UN health agency's weekly epidemiological update showed, taking the total to 60.The report said B.1.617 had shown increased transmissibility, while disease severity and risk of infection were under investigation.Globally over the past week, the number of new cases and deaths continued to decrease, with around 4.1 million new cases and 84,000 new deaths reported -- a 14 percent and two percent decrease respectively compared to the previous week.The WHO's European region reported the largest decline in new cases and deaths in the past seven days, followed by the southeast Asia region.The numbers of cases reported by the Americas, Eastern Mediterranean, Africa, and the Western Pacific region were similar to those reported in the previous week."Despite a declining global trend over the past four weeks, incidence of Covid-19 cases and deaths remain high, and substantial increases have been observed in many countries throughout the world," the document said.The highest numbers of new cases in the past seven days were reported from India (1,846,055 -- down 23 percent); Brazil (451,424 -- up three percent); Argentina (213,046 -- up 41 percent), the United States (188,410 -- down 20 percent), and Colombia (107,590 -- down seven percent).- Variant detection -The update gave information on the four mutations classed as variants of concern: those first reported in Britain (B.1.1.7), South Africa (B.1.351), Brazil (P.1) and India (B.1.617).When counting up the total number of territories reporting each variant, the WHO added together those from which it had official and unofficial information.B.1.1.7 has now been reported in 149 territories; B.1.351 in 102 territories and P.1 in 59 territories.The WHO split up figures for the B.1.617 variant into three lineages (B.1.617.1, B.1.617.2 and B.1.617.3).The first has been reported in a total of 41 territories, the second in 54 and the third in six: Britain, Canada, Germany, India, Russia and the United States.Together, lineages of the B.1.617 variant were officially recorded in 53 territories and unofficially in another seven.The update also listed six variants of interest that are being monitored.One was first discovered in multiple countries, two of them were first found in the United States, while the three others were first discovered in Brazil, the Philippines and France."Virus evolution is expected, and the more SARS-CoV-2 circulates, the more opportunities it has to evolve," the report said."Reducing transmission through established and proven disease-control methods... are crucial aspects of the global strategy to reduce the occurrence of mutations that have negative public health implications."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/indian-covid-19-variant-found-in-at-least-53-territories-who-101621996910662.html
26-05-2021||World||New grand jury seated for next stage of Trump investigation||New York prosecutors have convened a special grand jury to consider evidence in a criminal investigation into former President Donald Trump's business dealings, a person familiar with the matter told The Associated Press on Tuesday.The development signals that the Manhattan district attorney's office was moving toward seeking charges as a result of its two-year investigation, which included a lengthy legal battle to obtain Trump's tax records.The person familiar with the matter was not authorised to speak publicly and did so on the condition of anonymity. The news was first reported by The Washington Post.Manhattan District Attorney Cyrus Vance Jr is conducting a wide-ranging investigation into a variety of matters such as hush-money payments paid to women on Trump's behalf, property valuations and employee compensation.The Democratic prosecutor has been using an investigative grand jury through the course of his probe to issue subpoenas and obtain documents. That panel kept working while other grand juries and court activities were shut down because of the coronavirus pandemic.The investigation includes scrutiny of Trump's relationship with his lenders, a land donation he made to qualify for an income tax deduction and tax write-offs his company claimed on millions of dollars in consulting fees it paid.The new grand jury could eventually be asked to consider returning indictments. While working on that case, it also will be hearing other matters. The Post reported that the grand jury will meet three days a week for six months.Trump contends the investigation is a "witch hunt"."This is purely political, and an affront to the almost 75 million voters who supported me in the Presidential Election, and it's being driven by highly partisan Democrat prosecutors," Trump said in a statement.Vance's office declined to comment.The new grand jury is the latest sign of increasing momentum in the criminal investigation into the Republican ex-president and his company, the Trump Organization.Attorney General Letitia James said last week that she assigned two lawyers to work with Vance's office on the probe after her civil investigation into Trump evolved into a criminal matter.James, a Democrat, said her office also is continuing its civil investigation into Trump. She did not say what prompted her office to expand its investigation into a criminal probe.In recent months, Vance hired former mafia prosecutor Mark Pomerantz to help run the investigation and has been interviewing witnesses, including Trump's former personal lawyer, Michael Cohen.Vance declined to run for reelection and will leave office at the end of the year, meaning the Trump case is likely to pass to his successor in some form. An election next month is all but certain to determine who that will be.Trump said in a statement last week that he is being "unfairly attacked and abused by a corrupt political system". He contends the investigations are part of a Democratic plot to silence his voters and block him from running for president again.In February, the US Supreme Court buoyed Vance's investigation by clearing the way for the prosecutor to enforce a subpoena on Trump's accounting firm and obtain eight years of tax returns and related documents for the former president, the Trump Organization and other Trump entities.The documents are protected by grand jury secrecy rules and are not expected to be made public.Vance's investigation has appeared to focus in recent weeks on Trump's longtime finance chief, Allen Weisselberg. His former daughter-in-law, Jen Weisselberg, is cooperating with both inquiries.She has given investigators reams of tax records and other documents as they look into whether some Trump employees were given off-the-books compensation, such as apartments or school tuition.Allen Weisselberg was subpoenaed in James' civil investigation and testified twice last year. His lawyer declined to comment when asked on Tuesday if he had been subpoenaed to testify before the new grand jury.A message seeking comment was left with Jen Weisselberg's lawyer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/new-grand-jury-seated-for-next-stage-of-trump-investigation-101621995268206.html
26-05-2021||World||Floyd family meets Biden a year after death, push for law||They mourned together and laughed together in the Oval Office -- and spoke of what President Joe Biden called "the hard reality that racism has long torn us apart".The first anniversary of George Floyd's death was supposed to be a milestone moment in Washington, a time to mark the passage of a policing law to make criminal justice more just. Instead, Floyd's family met with Biden and Vice President Kamala Harris at the White House on Tuesday to commemorate their loss and continue to push for legislation."It was a remembrance of what happened to my brother," Philonise Floyd said of the meeting with Biden, calling the president "a genuine guy".Biden told them "he just wants the bill to be meaningful and that it holds George's legacy intact", said George Floyd's nephew Brandon Williams. Williams said Biden showed "genuine concern" for how the family is doing.Biden took time during the meeting to play with George Floyd's young daughter Gianna, who enjoyed some ice cream and Cheetos, the president said, after she told him she was hungry.Later, she stood before the cameras outside the White House and softly called out, "say his name". Family members chanted in return: "George Floyd."A sister, Bridgett Floyd, stayed away, aiming to come to Washington only when there is a bill to be signed into law."That is when I will make my way to DC," she said from Minnesota.She and several other family members joined Minneapolis Mayor Jacob Frey and others marking the anniversary in the city where George Floyd died, and other events took place in New York, Los Angeles and other cities in the US and abroad.Speaking to reporters at the end of the day, Biden said he had spoken with congressional negotiators and was "hopeful that sometime after Memorial Day, we will have an agreement".With the proposed George Floyd Justice in Policing Act still pending, his family began the day meeting with legislators and headed back to Capitol Hill later from the White House.They met Tuesday morning with Democratic House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Republican Karen Bass, D-Calif., who ushered the bill through the House. The Floyds met late in the day with Democrat Cory Booker of New Jersey and Republican Tim Scott of South Carolina, the Senate's lead negotiators on the bill. The family then visited Black Lives Matter Plaza, the site near the White House where protesters gathered throughout last summer."I was pleasantly surprised and encouraged by their thoughts," Scott said of the family. "I wish I was negotiating with them," he said, though he also repeated the line of the day that progress was being made.Earlier at the Capitol, alongside Pelosi and other lawmakers, Philonise Floyd declared of his brother: "Today is the day that he set the world in a rage.""We need to be working together to make sure that people do not live in fear in America anymore," he said.The Floyd family's meetings with some of Washington's most powerful officials produced plenty of comments about optimism and moving forward. Nonetheless, the lack of a final deal contrasted sharply with advocates' high hopes just last month, when former Minneapolis police officer Derek Chauvin's conviction for Floyd's killing and then Biden's nationally televised speech to Congress calling for action by May 25 gave supporters a sense of momentum.The current standoff underscores the political complexities of an issue that is a top concern for many of both parties' voters -- Democrats' progressives and voters of colour, and Republicans' law-and-order conservatives.Floyd died on May 25, 2020, after police officer Chauvin kneeled on his neck for more than nine minutes while arresting him. His death sparked months of nationwide racial protests, a worldwide global reckoning over racism and a renewed debate over police reform. Chauvin was convicted last month of multiple charges.Though a legislative response has been elusive, negotiators have displayed a steady solidarity that is unusual for such talks, never publicly sniping at each other.It is a high-profile legislative fight in which Biden has notably taken a back seat, preferring to leave the work of crafting a compromise to lawmakers on Capitol Hill, in contrast to his fevered advocacy, both public and private, for his infrastructure bill and COVID-19 relief package."We have been respecting the space needed for negotiators to have these discussions," White House press secretary Jen Psaki said on Tuesday.She and congressional negotiators declined to offer a new deadline for reaching an agreement. Bass, the top House Democratic bargainer, said talks would continue "until we get the job done". Scott said negotiations "have a long way to go still, but it is starting to take form".The Democratic-controlled House approved a sweeping bill in March that would make it easier for individual police officers to be sued and charged with crimes. It would also ban chokeholds, limit no-knock warrants and create a national database of officers with histories of complaints and disciplinary problems.That bill has gone nowhere in the Senate, where the 50 Democrats will need support from at least 10 Republicans to overcome a bill-killing filibuster.GOP lawmakers have preferred more modest changes.Floyd family lawyer Ben Crump said Biden told them "he does not want to sign a bill that does not have substance and meaning"."So he is going to be patient, to make sure it is the right bill, not a rushed bill," Crump said. (AP) RC||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/grief-smiles-as-floyd-family-meets-biden-a-year-after-death-101621990825996.html
26-05-2021||World||'Need transparent process from China' on virus origin: White House Covid adviser||A senior White House coronavirus adviser has said the world needs to "get to the bottom" of the origins of the Covid-19 pandemic while adding that the WHO and China need to do more to reach the definitive answers in the matter."It is our position that we need to get to the bottom of this and we need a completely transparent process from China. We need the WHO (World Health Organization) to assist in that matter. We don't feel like that we have that now," said WH Covid advisor Andy Slavitt on Tuesday during a briefing."We need to get to the bottom of this whatever the answer may be and that's a critical priority for us," he added.Answering the same question during the briefing, Dr Anothy Fauci, the Biden administration's top medical adviser said they "feel strongly" that the world should continue with the investigation and go to the next phase of the probe that the WHO has done."Because we don't know 100 per cent what the origin is, it's imperative that we look and do an investigation," he added.This statement comes a few days after an explosive Wall Street Journal report stated that three researchers from China's Wuhan Institute of Virology sought hospital care after they fell ill in November 2019, a month before Beijing reported the first patient with Covid-like symptoms."The US government has reason to believe that several researchers inside the WIV became sick in autumn 2019, before the first identified case of the outbreak, with symptoms consistent with both Covid-19 and common seasonal illnesses," the report read, fueling debate of the lab leak theory.The revelations come amid growing calls for a fuller probe on whether the Covid-19 virus may have escaped from the Chinese laboratory. It also comes on the eve of a meeting of the WHO decision-making body, which is expected to discuss the next phase of investigation into the origin of Covid-19.Earlier this year, the WHO report determined that the possibility the virus came from a lab was "extremely unlikely," noting there was "no record" any lab had closely related viruses. The probe was criticized by various countries including the US, and UK over its limited access to "complete, original data and samples."The organization was also accused of being overly deferential to China throughout the course of the study, which was co-authored by 17 Chinese scientists -- several of them from state-run institutions.China refused to give raw data on early Covid-19 cases to the WHO-led team probing the origins of the pandemic. Beijing has been accused of delaying access to international investigators for months after the initial outbreak, virtually guaranteeing that the lab had been deep-cleaned before any forensic analysis could be done.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/need-transparent-process-from-china-on-virus-origin-white-house-covid-adviser-101621989902198.html
26-05-2021||World||As global outrage grows, airlines shun Belarus air space||Airlines shunned Belarus’s air space on Tuesday and Belarusian planes faced a possible ban from Europe as international outrage mounted over Minsk forcing down a jetliner and arresting a dissident journalist who was on board.A video released overnight showed 26-year-old Roman Protasevich confessing to having organised anti-government demonstrations hours after he was pulled off a flight from Greece to Lithuania forced down in the Belarusian capital Minsk.British Prime Minister Boris Johnson said the video made for “distressing viewing” and Belarus would face consequences.Belarus did not immediately comment on the torture allegation but has consistently denied abusing detainees. Rights groups have documented hundreds of cases of as abuse and forced confessions during a crackdown on pro-democracy activists.France and Ireland have described the incident as piracy. On Tuesday NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg called it a “state hijacking”.Belarusian state media have reported that President Alexander Lukashenko personally ordered the flight to be intercepted. Belarus says it was responding to a bomb scare that later proved to be a false alarm. The UN agency ICAO has said the incident may have violated the foundational treaty governing international civil aviation, the 1944 Chicago Convention.European Union leaders at a summit on Monday called for airlines based in the 27-member bloc to halt flights over Belarusian air space, which is along a major corridor connecting Europe and Asia and earns hard currency from overflight rights.The EU leaders directed officials to draw up new sanctions against Belarus, and to work out a way to ban Belarusian airlines from the bloc’s skies. Belarus’s neighbour, Ukraine, also announced a ban on flights to or from Belarus, and on its own airlines using Belarusian air space.Lukashenko has so far shrugged off Western sanctions, which bar various officials from travelling or doing business in the United States and EU.Politicians in the West have called for tougher measures. But they have failed to influence the behaviour of Lukashenko, who enjoys unwavering financial and security support from Russia.Moscow denied suggestions by the West that it may have assisted Belarus in the operation. Russia has also accused Western countries of hypocrisy, noting a Bolivian presidential plane was diverted to Austria in 2013 after reports it carried US intelligence leaker Edward Snowden.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/as-global-outrage-grows-airlines-shun-belarus-air-space-101621989426678.html
26-05-2021||World||George Floyd's family lobbies Biden for US police reform on anniversary of death||A year after his killing sparked a national reckoning over U.S. racial injustice, George Floyd's relatives met on Tuesday with President Joe Biden at the White House and with lawmakers on Capitol Hill to urge passage of police reform legislation in their loved one's name.Floyd, a 46-year-old Black man who died in handcuffs with his neck pinned to a Minneapolis street under a white police officer's knee, become the face of a national movement against police brutality and bias in the U.S. criminal justice system.His dying words, "I can't breathe," have echoed as a slogan in street demonstrations that convulsed the United States and the world last summer in the midst of the coronavirus epidemic.But Monday's private Oval Office visit marked the first time any of Floyd's family had been hosted at the White House, occupied since January by a Democratic administration.Biden's Republican predecessor, Donald Trump, was widely criticized for political rhetoric seen as inflaming racial tensions heightened in the aftermath of Floyd's death.Floyd's relatives used their pilgrimage to Washington on the anniversary of his death to lobby Biden and Congress for the enactment of legislation ensuring the just treatment of minorities by law enforcement.In March, the Democratic-majority House of Representatives passed a bill, dubbed the George Floyd Justice in Policing Act, to ban contentious police tactics such as "choke holds," while making it easier to sue individual police officers for unlawful conduct.A bipartisan group of lawmakers has been working to hammer out a compromise to win enough Republican support to ensure passage in the Senate, where Democrats hold a razor-thin margin of control."If you can make federal laws to protect the (national) bird, which is the bald eagle, you can make federal laws to protect people of color," Floyd's brother Philonise said on the White House driveway he after five other family members met with Biden and Vice President Kamala Harris.He described Biden as supportive, calling him "a genuine guy.""He did let us know that he supports passing the bill, but he wants to make sure that is the right bill and not a rushed bill," said Floyd's nephew Brandon Williams.Moments before departing the White House by helicopter a short time later for a flight back to his home state of Delaware, Biden told reporters he had spoken to negotiators on the bill and said he was "hopeful that sometime after Memorial Day we'll have an agreement.""We have to act," Biden said in a statement issued by the White House. "The battle for the soul of America has been a constant push and pull between the American ideal that we're all created equal and the harsh reality that racism has long torn us apart."Earlier in the day, Floyd's family, including his daughter, Gianna, and two other brothers, met with House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and other lawmakers who promised to secure passage of the legislation.Senator Tim Scott, the lead Republican negotiator, told reporters on Tuesday that a main point of contention remained qualified immunity, a legal doctrine that shields individual police officers from lawsuits in certain circumstances.Republicans oppose provisions in the bill rolling back such immunity, while many liberal Democrats say they would only support a bill that abolished it."We have a long way to go still, but it's starting to take form," Scott said.Floyd's life celebratedIn Minneapolis, a foundation created in Floyd's memory by some in his family organized an afternoon of music and food in a park near the downtown courtroom where Derek Chauvin, the former officer, was convicted last month of murdering Floyd.Chauvin, 45, faces up to 40 years in prison when he is sentenced on June 25. Three other officers at the scene have pleaded not guilty to aiding and abetting Chauvin, and will go on trial next year. The Minneapolis Police Department fired all four officers the day after Floyd was killed.Later on Tuesday, mourners were set to gather for a candlelight vigil at the stretch of road where Chauvin knelt on Floyd's neck. Darnella Frazier, a teenage bystander, recorded the killing on her cellphone, uploading video to Facebook that horrified people around the world. Floyd had been suspected of passing a counterfeit $20 bill to buy cigarettes.By the afternoon, small crowds were gathering at the intersection for a festive, sunny afternoon of music and children's activities. A man set out paint ready to create a fresh mural in the square, which has been closed to most vehicle traffic for a year and is filled with flowers and art commemorating Floyd and other Black victims of police violence.Minnesota Governor Tim Walz and Minneapolis Mayor Jacob Frey were due to join activists in a city park for nine minutes and 29 seconds of silence in memory of Floyd's murder.Demonstrations were planned in New York City. Earlier on Tuesday, Shaun Donovan, a Democratic candidate for mayor, was among a group of five protesters arrested for blocking traffic near a major tunnel into Manhattan.Legislation has been pursued in all 50 U.S. states and the District of Columbia to increase the accountability or oversight of police, and 24 states have enacted new laws, according to the National Conference of State Legislatures.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/george-floyd-s-family-lobbies-biden-for-us-police-reform-on-anniversary-of-death-101621987122449.html
26-05-2021||World||UK's Covid 'disaster' to be laid bare by PM Johnson's ex-chief adviser||British Prime Minister Boris Johnson's former chief adviser will on Wednesday cast his former boss as a dithering leader surrounded by fools whose ineptitude led to a "disastrous" response to the most devastating global pandemic in decades.With almost 128,000 deaths, the United Kingdom has the world's fifth worst official Covid toll, and Johnson was slow to appreciate the significance of the threat from the virus in early 2020 as it spread from China towards Britain's shores.Dominic Cummings, the strategist behind the 2016 Brexit campaign and Johnson's landslide election win in 2019, will be quizzed by British lawmakers from 0830 GMT on the lessons that can be learned from the pandemic.Cummings, who left the government late last year, has said the British health ministry was a "smoking ruin", that Western governments failed during the crisis, and that the secretive British state was woefully unprepared for the pandemic."The Covid plan was supposed to be 'world class' but turned out to be part disaster, part non-existent," Cummings said on May 18 in one of dozens of tweets forming a critique of Britain's response."If we'd had the right preparations competent people in charge, we would probably have avoided lockdown1, *definitely* no need for lockdowns 2&3," he said.Cummings, played by Benedict Cumberbatch in the film "Brexit: The Uncivil War", casts the British state as an outdated system run by incompetent amateurs who are resistant to any innovation that would bring them closer to the modern world.British officials, he said, failed to learn the early Covid lessons from Asia, were resistant to new ideas from young scientists, overly secretive, overly bureaucratic and lacked any real scrutiny from a compliant domestic media.Asked about Cummings' criticism, Johnson's spokesman said: "At all times we have been guided by the data and the latest evidence we had."In a series of investigations, Reuters has reported how the British government made several errors: it was slow to spot the infections arriving, it was late with a lockdown and it continued to discharge infected hospital patients into care homes.The government's chief scientific adviser, Patrick Vallance, said in March 2020 that 20,000 deaths would be a good outcome. Soon after, a worst-case scenario prepared by government scientific advisers put the possible death toll at 50,000. The toll is now close to 128,000.Johnson has admitted that mistakes were made and that lessons need to be learned, but his ministers say they were working at pace in the biggest public health crisis in a century.Johnson has pointed to Britain's vaccination programme as a success that will allow the economy to rebound before its peers.Britain has the world's fifth fastest vaccination programme, based on shots per 100 people, behind the United Arab Emirates, Israel, Bahrain and Chile.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uks-covid-disaster-to-be-laid-bare-by-pm-johnson-s-ex-chief-adviser-101621985411168.html
26-05-2021||World||Moderna shot likely next year; Pfizer to offer 50 million jabs||Moderna is expecting to launch a single-dose Covid-19 vaccine in India next year and is in talks with Cipla among other Indian firms, while another US giant Pfizer is ready to offer five crore shots in 2021 itself but it wants significant regulatory relaxations including indemnification, people familiar with the matter said on Tuesday.While Moderna has conveyed to Indian authorities that it does not have surplus vaccines to share in 2021, there are limited prospects of Johnson & Johnson exporting its jabs from the US to other countries in the near future, the people added.Two rounds of high-level meetings chaired by the Cabinet Secretary were held last week on the availability of vaccines in the global as well as domestic markets as it was felt that there is an urgent need to procure the jabs at a time the country is reeling under an unprecedented second wave of Covid-19 and a widening gap between supply and requirement. Officials from the Ministry of External Affairs, NITI Aayog, Department of Biotechnology, Law Ministry and Health Ministry were present at the meeting.It was discussed that Moderna doesn’t have surplus vaccines to share in 2021 and that it plans to launch its single-dose vaccine for the Indian market only in 2022, for which, they are in discussion with Cipla and other Indian companies, the people said.It is learnt that Cipla has already evinced interest in procuring five crore doses from Moderna for 2022 and has requested confirmation from the Centre with respect to stability in regulatory requirements/policy regime. The health ministry has also been asked to take an early decision on Cipla’s request regarding support required for procurement of vaccines.In the case of Pfizer, the US pharma giant has indicated availability of five crore vaccine doses — one crore in July, one crore in August, two crore in September and one crore in October — for supply to India in 2021 that it will deal only with the Centre for and payment for vaccines will have to be made by the Centre to Pfizer India.According to another official, for the supply of vaccines, Pfizer has asked for indemnification from the Indian government and a document in this regard has been received from Pfizer Inc.Two vaccines are currently being used in India’s Covid-19 immunisation programme -- Serum Institute of India’s Covishield and Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin. Russian-made Sputnik V has also been recently approved by the government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/moderna-shot-likely-next-year-pfizer-to-offer-50-million-jabs-101621982009992.html
26-05-2021||World||Joe Biden and Vladimir Putin to meet in Geneva on June 16||US President Joe Biden will meet his Russian counterpart Vladimir Putin in Geneva on June 16 seeking to “restore predictability and stability” to the bilateral relationship, the White House announced on Tuesday.It will be their first meeting after Biden took office as president. They have interacted virtually before, including at a climate summit hosted by the American president.“The leaders will discuss the full range of pressing issues, as we seek to restore predictability and stability to the US-Russia relationship,” the White House said. The Geneva meeting comes amid rising tensions between the two countries over a growing list of issues, including Russian meddling in US elections, the SolarWinds hacking of the networks of the US government and companies, and Moscow’s handling of the jailed dissident Alexei Navalny.US secretary of state Antony Blinken met with his Russian counterpart Sergei Lavrov in Reykjavik, Iceland last week on the sidelines of a meeting of the Arctic Council.Blinken had conveyed to Lavrov at that time that the US desired “a more stable and predictable relationship with Moscow”.Blinken had listed out the issues hanging over the relationship: Russia’s continued military deployment in and near Ukraine, actions against VOA and Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty, the health of Navalny, and the “repression of opposition organisations”.They had also discussed Syria, the Armenia-Azerbaijan conflict and “areas in which both of our people could benefit from sustained and enhanced cooperation” such as Afghanistan, Iran and North Korea’s nuclear programme.Just hours before the meeting, the Biden administration announced it was calling off proposed sanctions on a Russian company that runs pipelines carrying natural gas to Europe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/joe-biden-and-vladimir-putin-to-meet-in-geneva-on-june-16-101621969091828.html
26-05-2021||World||Nepal gets a consulate in Chinese city of Chengdu where India was promised one||Nepal has opened a consulate general in China’s southwestern city of Chengdu, its fifth diplomatic mission in the country, in the latest symbol of increasingly close ties between Kathmandu and Beijing.India and China had reached an agreement in 2015 to establish an Indian consulate in Chengdu and one for China in Chennai. Neither has come up.Apart from an embassy in Beijing, Nepal has a consulate each in Lhasa, the capital of the Tibet Autonomous Region (TAR), and Guangzhou, the capital of Guangdong, an economic powerhouse. It also has a consulate office in Hong Kong, a special administrative region of China.Nepal will be among the handful of countries to have a diplomatic mission in the city of Chengdu, the capital of Sichuan province.The Himalayan country, sandwiched between India and China, is the only one to have a consulate general in Lhasa.Speaking at the inauguration on Monday, Nepalese ambassador Mahendra Bahadur Pandey said mutual trust, understanding and good neighbourliness have remained the hallmarks of Nepal-China bilateral relations since ancient times.According to a press statement released by the Nepalese embassy in Beijing, the vice-governor of Sichuan government, Li Yunze said the establishment of the consulate general would facilitate the promotion of trade, investment, tourism and people-to-people exchanges between the two countries.Incidentally, during Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to China in 2015, New Delhi and Beijing had reached an agreement to establish new consulates in each other’s countries - in Chengdu and in Chennai.The decision to open an Indian consulate in Chengdu was taken after China said no to India’s request to open a consulate in Lhasa.Six years later, neither the Indian nor the Chinese consulate has been established, a sign of fraught bilateral ties.In the interim period, ties between China and Nepal seemingly deepened. According to the Nepalese government, China has been topping in FDI pledges to Nepal since 2015.“Of total FDI pledges that stand at $95 million, China alone pledged $88 million during the first quarter, according to the department. This represents nearly 93% of total foreign investments committed FDI, showing the dominant position of China when it comes to FDI commitments to the Himalayan nation,” a report by the Chinese news agency Xinhua said in 2019.Beijing also has plans to build the Trans-Himalayan Multi-Dimensional Connectivity Network through TAR and Nepal as part of the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) cooperation between the two countries.The opening of the new Nepalese mission in China comes weeks after Nepal took part, along with Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka, in a China-led foreign ministers’ virtual meeting with focus on controlling the Covid-19 pandemic.Chinese President Xi Jinping had visited Kathmandu in October 2019 for the first state visit to Nepal by a Chinese head of state in 23 years following his informal summit with Modi in Chennai.Last December, Xi and his Nepalese counterpart, Bidya Devi Bhandari, jointly announced the new height of Mount Everest, the world’s highest peak, to be 8,848.86 metres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/nepal-gets-a-consulate-in-chinese-city-of-chengdu-where-india-was-promised-one-101621967893626.html
26-05-2021||India||Time at toll plazas should not exceed 10 seconds, says NHAI||The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) on Wednesday said it has issued guidelines to ensure service time of not more than 10 seconds per vehicle even during peak hours at the toll plazas along national highways.“The new set of guidelines will also ensure seamless flow of traffic at the toll plazas by not allowing vehicles to queue up more than 100 metres. Although in most of the toll plazas, there is no waiting time after mandatory 100% FASTag, even then if there is a queue of waiting vehicles of more than 100 metres due to some reason, the vehicles will be allowed to pass without paying toll till the queue comes within 100 meters from the toll booth. For this purpose, a yellow line at a distance of 100 meters from the toll booth will be marked in each toll lane. This is to inculcate further sense of accountability in toll plaza operators,” NHAI said in a statement.NHAI said since it transitioned to 100% cashless tolling from mid February 2021, the overall FASTag usage in NHAI Toll Plazas has reached 96%.“Keeping in view the growing Electronic Toll Collection (ETC) penetration in the country, it has been emphasized to have a new design and construct the upcoming toll plazas as per traffic projections for next 10 years to have an efficient toll collection system,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/time-at-toll-plazas-should-not-exceed-10-seconds-says-nhai-101622053755302.html
26-05-2021||India||Gujarat CM announces ₹500-crore relief package for farmers affected by Tauktae||Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani on Wednesday announced a relief package of ₹500 crore for farmers who lost their horticulture and summer crops due to cyclone Tauktae which ravaged the coastal parts of the state last week. One of the most powerful cyclones to hit the western coast in recent times, Tauktae, which made a landfall on the Gujarat coast on May 17 and triggered high-speed winds and rainfall, had destroyed crops in 2 lakh hectares in 86 talukas spread across nine districts of the state, as per official estimates.“Cyclone Tauktae, which triggered wind speed up to 220 kmph, had destroyed crops in Amreli, Gir Somnath, Bhavnagar, Junagadh and Botad districts of the Saurashtra region. It had also affected crops in South Gujarat districts of Navsari, Surat, Valsad and Bharuch,” Rupani said after a core committee meeting held to decided on a relief package for the affected farmers. “Horticulture and summer crops were destroyed in 2 lakh hectares in 86 talukas of these nine districts. The government had initiated a survey (for damage assessment) which will be completed by Thursday,” he said. Under the ₹500 crore package, the state government has decided to give a financial assistance of ₹1 lakh per hectare (up to to 2 hectares) to horticulture farmers whose plants have been completely uprooted. If the damage is over 33 per cent, ₹30,000 per hectare will be given to such farmers for 2 hectares, Rupani said. The main horticulture crops that have faced destruction in the cyclone are mango, chikoo, lemon, coconut and guava. For summer crops, farmers who have faced damage of more than 33 per cent will be paid a compensation of ₹20,000 per hectare (up to 2 hectares), he said. The compensation amount will be directly credited into the bank account of beneficiary farmers a week after the survey is completed by May 27, the CM said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gujarat-cm-announces-rs-500-crore-relief-package-for-farmers-affected-by-tauktae-101622049250183.html
26-05-2021||India||Former Bengal CM Buddhadeb Bhattacharya, wife stable, says Kolkata hospital||Former Bengal chief minister Buddhadeb Bhattacharya, 77, who was admitted to a private hospital in south Kolkata on Tuesday afternoon with Covid-19, is stable, the hospital authorities said in a bulletin at 9 pm on Wednesday. His wife, Mira Bhattacharya, 71, who was also admitted on Tuesday evening following a panic attack, is also stable. The former CM and his wife both tested positive for Covid-19 on May 18. Mira Bhattacharya was admitted to Woodlands Hospital that day. She was released on Monday but had to be admitted again the next day, hours after her husband was brought to the hospital. The former CM was being treated at home till his oxygen saturation level dropped below 90%. He is on non-invasive ventilator. A panel of seven doctors has been formed for his treatment. Wednesday night’s bulletin said Bhattacharya’s oxygen level in blood had reached 93% with support. “He is presently conscious, alert and talking sensibly. His blood pressure is stable,” said the bulletin. Bhattacharya was fed orally. His Interleukin-6 level has improved significantly, the bulletin added. Bhattacharya, one of the most senior leaders of the CPI (M), is a patient of Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD). He could rarely leave home in the last few years. In October last year, Bhattacharya was in the same hospital for six days. He was admitted in a critical condition with symptoms such as breathlessness and low oxygen count in blood. He was put on ventilation. However, his condition improved quickly. Bhattacharya tested negative for Covid-19 in October.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-bengal-cm-buddhadeb-bhattacharya-wife-stable-says-kolkata-hospital-101622051234533.html
26-05-2021||India||6 cases of Mucormycosis seen in Himachal Pradesh so far: Officials||Six cases of black fungus or mucormycosis have been detected in Himachal Pradesh so far, officials said on Wednesday.The state's first case was reported on May 20 from Hamirpur district. Black fungus was detected near the nose of a woman from the district's Khagar area, they said.Three other cases were reported from Kangra and two from Solan, the officials said.Mucormycosis is caused by a group of moulds known as mucormycetes present naturally in the environment. It spreads through the nose and affects other parts of the body such as the eyes.People whose immunity has been weakened due to Covid, diabetes, kidney disease, liver or cardiac disorders, age-related issues, or those on medication for auto-immune diseases like rheumatoid arthritis are more likely to contract mucormycosis.If such patients are administered steroids, their immunity weakens further, allowing the fungus to thrive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/6-cases-of-mucormycosis-seen-in-himachal-pradesh-so-far-officials-101622049926210.html
26-05-2021||India||Fugitive diamantaire Mehul Choksi apprehended in Dominica: Report||Mehul Choksi, the fugitive diamantaire who went missing in Antigua, has been apprehended in neighbouring Caribbean island of Dominica, local media reported on Wednesday. The reports in Antiguan media said that Choksi is in the custody of the Criminal Investigation Department (CID).The police in Antigua had intensified the search for Choksi after he was reported missing by family members. They requested international police coordination agency Interpol to issue a global alert.Choksi, who has taken the citizenship of Antigua and Barbuda, was last seen on Sunday evening after heading to a popular local restaurant for dinner, according to his lawyer. He left in a car, which was later recovered by Antigua Police.An Interpol Yellow Notice was issued against Choksi after a request from the Antiguan Police. The notice is issued by the Interpol to track missing persons.The efforts are on to hand him over to the Royal Police Force of Antigua and Barbuda, the local media reports said.Choksi is wanted in a ₹13,500 crore loan fraud in Punjab National Bank (PNB). The bank in 2018 alleged that a few rogue employees had issued fake bank guarantees over several years to help jewellery groups - controlled by Choksi and his nephew Nirav Modi - raise funds in foreign credit.Modi and Choksi left India before the fraud came to light but have denied any wrongdoing and have said in letters and statements they were innocent.Modi was arrested in London in 2019 and is fighting extradition to India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fugitive-diamantaire-mehul-choksi-apprehended-in-dominica-report-101622050637573.html
26-05-2021||India||Share info on compliance with new rules: Govt tells social media firms||The Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology has asked all social media intermediaries to share information regarding compliance with the new guidelines by furnishing details of their compliance officer, nodal contact person, resident grievance officer and physical contact address in India. “Government through a separate notification has also prescribed that a social media intermediary having fifty lakh (5 million) registered users in India will be considered a Significant Social Media Intermediary (SSMI),” the government said in its communication to the companies. “Additional set of due diligence for SSMI are being administered by this ministry. The additional due diligence required from SSMI have come into effect today, at the conclusion of three additional months given to SSMIs.”The government asked the social media intermediaries to preferably share the details by the end of Wednesday. Most of the prominent companies, including social media giants Facebook and Twitter, instant messaging application WhatsApp and tech giant Google are yet to comply with the new rules, the deadline for which lapsed on May 25. WhatsApp has a resident grievance officer, but it is yet to appoint a compliance officer. Twitter and Facebook too have not appointed anyone yet. Facebook on Tuesday said it aims to comply with the new guidelines but indicated there were unresolved issues. Google has advertised for the post of a compliance officer and in a statement said that it “respects India’s legislative process”. “We respect India’s legislative process and have a long history of responding to government requests to remove content where the content violates the local law or our product policies. We realize that our work in keeping our platforms secure is never done and we will continue to refine our existing approaches, and evolve our policies and be as transparent as possible about how we make decisions,” a Google spokesperson said.The government has further asked social media intermediaries to specify why they may not be considered a significant one by providing the number of registered users on the platform. “The Government reserves the right to seek any additional information, as may be permitted within these Rules and the IT Act.” Under part four of the guidelines, the intermediaries are required to appoint compliance officers, “responsible for ensuring compliance with the Act and rules” and be “liable in any proceedings relating to any relevant third-party information, data or communication link made available or hosted by that intermediary where he fails to ensure that such intermediary observes due diligence while discharging its duties under the Act”.Intermediaries are also required to appoint nodal contact persons for 24x7 coordination with law enforcement agencies and resident grievance officers.Koo, the Indian social media app, has announced it has complied with the new requirements and appointed a resident grievance officer, chief compliance officer, and nodal contact officer.HT on Monday reported that officials warned of stern action if the companies did not adhere to the deadline. They added none of the companies have informed the government of the compliance or shared details of the officers they were meant to have appointed on their websites.The new policy also includes bringing digital news publishers under the ambit of Section 69(A) of the Information Technology (IT) Act. The provision empowers the government to order the blocking of access to content that is considered a threat to public order. An officer, who will head an inter-ministerial committee at the apex of the three-tier self-regulatory system, can also issue this order under emergency circumstances where the companies will not be given a chance for explanation. The committee will have to meet within 48 hours to ratify the emergency block. News media publishers and over the top (or streaming) such as Netflix and Hotstar, will fall under the ambit of the ministry of information and broadcasting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/share-info-on-compliance-with-new-rules-govt-tells-social-media-firms-101622047874639.html
26-05-2021||India||‘Sense of national security widened as a consequence of Covid-19’: S Jaishankar||External affairs minister (EAM) Dr S Jaishankar said on Wednesday that global cooperation is the only way out for countries fighting the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic.Jaishankar is on a five-day visit to the United States, to meet senior officials and talk about Covid-related cooperation between the two countries, which are severely affected by the pandemic.In a conversation with former United States National Security Advisor (NSA) General HR McMaster, Jaishankar said the second wave of the viral disease proved to be devastating in India due to which cases and deaths were much greater than before.Also Read| Quad members step up Covid-19 support for countries in neighbourhood“At the end of the day, when you have a global challenge of this scale, the only way out is global cooperation and global mitigation. We (India) have been dealing with the challenges of hospitalisations, oxygen and the US is well aware of these issues,” Jaishankar further said.Pointing out that India received international support and solidarity during the ongoing Covid-19 crisis, the external affairs minister said it is crucial for countries to help each other out.“Our sense of national security has widened as a consequence of the pandemic. Whether it is medicines, vaccines and last year it was masks and PPEs,” Dr Jaishankar told General HR McMaster.On being asked what vision does India have about a free and open Indo-Pacific, the EAM said the seamlessness of the region is evident be it politics, economics or trade and the Indo-Pacific is central to the prospects and welfare of the world. Those countries who believe the region should be kept open and the decisions should be taken on the basis of rules or international order, should conduct them in a way in which collective interests are best served.Also Read| Quad and an opportunity to define India’s economic statecraftDuring the interaction, General HR McMaster also asked Jaishankar about how India viewed the threat from China’s policies.To this, Jaishankar said there are several ways of looking at the threat from China. “One is the kind of an inter-state analysis. There are consequences in international relations if there is a sharp increase of power of one particular state. Another way is that different countries have different challenges. In international relations, it is very common for countries to cooperate wherever their interests converge.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sense-of-national-security-widened-as-a-consequence-of-covid-19-s-jaishankar-101622045095397.html
26-05-2021||India||In call with 'dear friend' Macron, PM Modi thanks France for help in Covid-19 fight||Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted on Wednesday he spoke to "dear friend," French President Emmanuel Macron, thanking him for France's "prompt" assistance in India's fight against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19)."Spoke to my dear friend @EmmanuelMacron. I thanked him for France's prompt assistance to India's Covid-19 response. We also discussed bilateral, regional and global issues, including cooperation in climate action and Indo-Pacific," PM Modi tweeted.Spoke to my dear friend President @EmmanuelMacron. I thanked him for France’s prompt assistance to India’s COVID-19 response. We also discussed bilateral, regional and global issues, including cooperation in climate action and Indo-Pacific.Further, in a press release, the Prime Minister's Office (PMO) said, "The leaders expressed satisfaction at the positive outcomes of the recently-concluded India-EU leaders' meeting. Both the leaders agreed that announcements regarding resumption of negotiations for balanced and comprehensive free trade and investment agreements, and India-EU connectivity partnerships were welcome steps.""The two leaders expressed satisfaction at the depth and strength that the India-France Strategic Partnership has acquired in recent years and agreed to continue working closely together in the post-Covid era," the release further said, adding that Prime Minister Modi "reiterated his invitation to President Macron to visit India as soon as conditions permit."France is among several countries which rushed relief material to India, as the country battled a devastating second wave of Covid-19 in April, recording well over 400,000 fresh infections and more than 4,000 related fatalities in a single-day, the highest anywhere since the pandemic began in the first half of 2020. In the last few days, the daily cases have come down, though these are still above the 200,000-mark, while the daily death toll continues to be near or more than 4,000. In the last 24 hours, India’s Covid-19 tally rose by 208,921 cases, while the death toll was up by 4,157, as per the Union health ministry’s data on Wednesday morning. The infection tally is at 27,157,795, including 311,388 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-speaks-with-french-president-thanks-for-help-in-india-s-covid-fight-101622044838458.html
26-05-2021||India||Bengali news channel scribe wanted for abduction in Kolkata; 3 held||The detective department of the Kolkata Police has arrested three men and is looking for a few more suspects, including a journalist with a newly launched Bengali news channel, in connection with an abduction in which the accused posed as officers of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to collect a ransom of ₹15 lakh from a family, police said. The alleged crime took place in the Kasba area of south Kolkata on Monday. Swarup Roy and Pratik Sarkar, who posed as CBI officers, and Rajesh Adhikari, the driver of the vehicle used in the abduction were arrested. The news channel has issued a statement saying Avishek Sengupta, another prime suspect, was on probation and he has been suspended. A homemaker, Swity Nath Roy, alleged in her police complaint on Tuesday that her husband Ajit Roy was taken away from home by some men who claimed to be CBI officers. The family started getting ransom calls after the alleged kidnappers left with Roy. The callers initially demanded ₹2 crore but finally settled for ₹15 lakh. A friend of the family gave the money to the kidnappers and Roy was released, said Murlidhar Sharma, joint commissioner of police (crime). Naming Sengupta in its statement, the channel said, “As an organization with zero tolerance towards such abhorrent criminal acts, the said probationer was immediately suspended on Tuesday evening pending a thorough probe into the matter.” The channel also said Sengupta was untraceable and could not be reached over the telephone. Sharma said the police are conducting raids to nab more suspects.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengali-news-channel-scribe-wanted-for-abduction-in-kolkata-3-held-101622044274410.html
26-05-2021||India||News updates from HT: IMA writes to PM Modi over Ramdev's remarks on allopathic drugs and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.IMA writes to PM Modi on Ramdev statement, says clear-cut case of seditionThe Indian Medical Association (IMA) on Wednesday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to take "action under the sedition charges” against Ramdev over his statements questioning the efficacy of allopathy medicines and doctors and to stop the "misinformation campaign on vaccination” against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) by the yoga guru. Read moreUttarakhand’s global tender for Covid vaccine draws a blank; deadline extendedThe Uttarakhand government has extended the deadline for Covid-19 vaccine manufacturers to respond to its global tender to buy the life-saving shots by about a week due to the absence of a response from any manufacturer. Read moreHaryana: Law to recover for damage to property during protests comes into effectA law which allows the authorities to recover compensation from violent protesters who cause damage to property has come into effect in Haryana. Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij said on Wednesday that the Act was notified by the state government earlier this month. Read moreRussia seeks to outmuscle US in Arctic with northern military base"The enemy shall not pass," exclaims commander Ivan Glushchenko, standing in the glistening white snow that surrounds an ultra-modern Russian military base in the heart of the Arctic, the site of Moscow's stand-off with NATO. Read moreSanjay Dutt is 'honoured' as he receives golden visa for the UAE, see picsSanjay Dutt took to Twitter on Wednesday and revealed that he has received the golden visa for the United Arab Emirates (UAE). Sharing a picture with the passport in his hand, Sanjay was seen posing with major general Mohammed Al Marri, director general of General Directorate Of Residency and Foreigners Affairs in Dubai (GDRFA) Dubai. Read moreNow you can hide your like count on Facebook, InstagramInstagram, back in July last year, had started testing a feature that would enable users to hide their like count. Shortly after in September 2020, Facebook had started testing a similar functionality on its platform. Now, nearly a year later, the company has rolled out this feature to its users. Read more'Sachin, Dhoni were useful at their 50%, we don't have that calibre': Raja slams Pak's reluctance of testing new playersFormer Pakistan batsman Ramiz Raja has voiced strong opinions on the cricket system in Pakistan and called the board and management out for their reluctance to try out new players and give more chances to youngsters. Read moreWatch| WhatsApp sues Modi govt: Diverting attention from privacy policy row?||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-ima-writes-to-pm-over-ramdev-s-remarks-on-allopathic-drugs-101622041423403.html
26-05-2021||India||Cyclone Yaas' impact on telecom minimal, 6 crore bulk SMSes sent to alert people: Govt||The ministry of communications said on Wednesday that Cyclone Yaas' impact on telecommunications services in worst-affected Odisha and West Bengal was minimal. The ministry credited this to the combined efforts of telecom service providers (TSPs) and infrastructure providers coordinated by the department of telecommunications (DoT).Also Read: Cyclone Yaas leaves a trail of destruction but strengthens monsoon winds"The combined efforts have ensured that restoration of the damaged network has commenced and even the minimal outages in the telecom networks will be restored very quickly," the ministry said in release.Watch: 1 crore people affected by Cyclone Yaas, says Mamata BanerjeeThe ministry said that review and restoration meetings were held before the landfall of the cyclone, on Wednesday morning and at 6pm today. The telecom services providers and infrastructure providers participated in the meeting and gave feedback, the ministry added.It also said that senior officers of state-run Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited (BSNL) were designated at district level who coordinated with district collectors, while senior DoT officers and TSP functionaries coordinated with the state nodal officers at state capitals.The release further said that the common alert protocol of the DoT was extensively used by state disaster management authorities (SDMAs) in West Bengal, Odisha and Andhra Pradesh to disseminate the cyclone alert messages free of cost. "A total of more than 6 crore bulk SMS/messages were sent in local languages alerting local residents. Of these 3.87 crore were in West Bengal, 2.43 crore in Odisha and 36.4 lacs in Andhra Pradesh," the ministry said."In addition for the first time Voice Alert Messages were also sent, facilitated by Department of Telecommunications with the help of Telecom Service Providers(TSPs) using Outbound Dialler (OBD) infrastructure. More than 60 lakh subscribers were reached through OBD in local languages (36.5 lacs in West Bengal and 21.5 lacs in Odisha ). TSPs have undertaken this outreach activity free of cost," it further said.Cyclone Yaas, packing winds of up to 130-145 kmph, whiplashed the country's eastern coast on Wednesday, dumping heavy rain, damaging houses and farmlands.Thick sheets of rain blurred the vast coastline, as the cyclone made landfall around 9am near Dhamra port in Odisha, with surging waters swamping the mud-and-thatch houses in the low-lying areas, where a massive evacuation drive has been undertaken to move more than 20 lakh people to safety.The storm, which had weakened in the afternoon, had left the coastal states on edge, with West Bengal government claiming that at least one crore people have been affected by the calamity thus far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-yaas-impact-on-telecom-minimal-6-cr-smses-sent-to-alert-people-govt-101622042248111.html
26-05-2021||India||‘Seek help from someone who knows Math’: Chhattisgarh minister refutes Centre’s claim of vaccine wastage||Chhattisgarh health minister TS Singh Deo on Wednesday rejected the Centre’s claim that the state was reporting a high wastage of Covid-19 vaccines. Singh Deo said the Centre created a new portal and was gathering data directly from vaccination centres and not the state government. “There is delay from vaccination centres in providing data which the Centre is calling vaccine wastage,” he told news agency ANI.Data from the Union health ministry on Wednesday showed that Chhattisgarh reported 30.2% vaccine wastage, which is much higher than the national average of 6.3%. States such as Jharkhand, Tamil Nadu, Jammu and Kashmir and Madhya Pradesh also saw vaccine wastage in double figures, the ministry’s data added.Also Read| Jharkhand not vaccine waster; Hemant Soren's office blames Co-Win glitchThe minister told ANI that the Congress led-state government can send its own team for an investigation into the matter adding the Centre’s claims about the wastage are politically motivated.Earlier, in a series of tweets, the state health minister explained that Chhattisgarh is one of the leading states in administering vaccines to beneficiaries and the inoculation done for healthcare, frontline workers and people above 45 years will soon achieve the 100% mark.In Chhattisgarh, vaccination of Healthcare & frontline workers or the age group above 45 years is soon to achieve the 100% mark.We are performing notably well in vaccinating the age group of 18-45 too. With such stats the cited wastage has to be imaginary, far from truth. (2/5)“Out of the vaccines supplied by the central government for healthcare and frontline workers and for 45+ years old, only 0.95% has been wasted and the vaccines procured by us directly for the 18-45 years old age group only 0.29% has been wasted. This is far better than the national average of 6%,” Deo said in a subsequent tweet.He reminded the Centre about the review meeting chaired by Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan on May 21, where he agreed that there was a technical error in the portal which is showing inflating figures of vaccine wastage. “It was assured that the Centre will coordinate with States to resolve the issue & make the correct figures public.”Also Read| India administers 200 million Covid vaccine doses, 2nd-fastest country after USUrging the Centre to focus more on procuring vaccine doses rather than playing petty politics with states, TS Singh Deo also tweeted that the Centre should do a better job in finding vaccine wastage figures and seek help from someone who knows math.Nearly 7 million beneficiaries have been vaccinated in Chhattisgarh till now of which 5,830,242 have received the first dose while 1,095,115 have been inoculated with both doses. The state on Tuesday registered another low of 3,506 new cases and 77 more deaths. The Covid-19 positivity rate has come down to 5%, chief minister Bhupesh Baghel said on Tuesday and urged the state’s public to be cautious and follow Covid-appropriate behaviour till the viral disease is completely eradicated.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centres-claim-about-vaccine-wastage-politically-motivated-c-garh-minister-101622042232426.html
26-05-2021||India||Azam Khan's condition deteriorates, shifted to ICU again||Veteran Samajwadi Party (SP) leader Azam Khan was again shifted to the intensive care unit (ICU) of critical care medicine department of Medanta Hospital in Lucknow on Wednesday after his condition deteriorated. Azam Khan was admitted to Medanta on May 9 after testing positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Sitapur prison on April 30 along with his son Abdullah Khan, 30."The SP leader is now being treated for fibrosis and cavity in his lungs in the ICU and is on 5-litre-per-minute oxygen support," said director of Medanta Dr Rakesh Kapoor. "A team of critical care experts is keeping a close eye on his condition," he added.Dr Kapoor also said that the condition of Azam Khan's son is stable.Earlier, the hospital had issued a statement in which it said that the treatment of the 72-year-old Rampur MP is being done under severe infection disease protocol.RS Yadav, the jailer of Sitapur prison, had said that Azam Khan underwent Covid-19 tests after complaining of fever and cough. "Initially, the rapid antigen was done and later the samples were sent for the RT-PCR test, the reports of which came positive," he had further said.Azam Khan, along with his son and wife Tazeen Fatma, has been in jail since February last year in connection with various cases of land grabbing, encroachment and others.The Allahabad high court, in December, granted bail to Tazeen Fatma in all 34 cases registered against her.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/azam-khan-s-condition-deteriorates-shifted-to-icu-again-101622040964619.html
26-05-2021||India||Bank holidays in June 2021: Banks to remain closed for 9 days, see complete list here||Banks in India would remain closed for nine days in the month of June, including the weekend holidays, according to the holiday calendar of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI). The RBI’s calendar also showed that the schedule, except those for the weekends, would be different across various cities in the country.The three main holidays include, YMA Day/Raja Sankranti on June 15, Guru Hargobind Ji’s birthday on June 25 and Remna Ni on June 30, declared as holidays under negotiable instruments act. Apart from this, on the second and the fourth Saturdays on June 12 and 26 respectively and on the four Sundays on June 6, 13, 20 and 27, banks would remain closed in all places due to the weekend.Here is the list of holidays and the cities where the banks would be closed for them -June 15 (YMA Day/Raja Sankranti) - Banks would be closed in Aizawl in Mizoram and Odisha’s Bhubaneswar on June 15 (Tuesday).June 25 (Guru Hargobind Ji’s birthday) - The day has been declared a holiday in Jammu, Srinagar, according to the RBI calendar.June 30 (Remna Ni) - This will be the second holiday in Aizawl, Mizoram, in June 2021 on the occasion of Remna Ni.In the month of May, there were six days which were declared as holiday under negotiable instruments act across various cities on May 1 (Maharashtra Din/May Day or Labour Day), May 7 (Jumat-ul-Vida), May 10 (Shab-i-Qadr), May 13 (Ramzan-Id (Id-Ul-Fitr) (Shawal-1)), May 14 (Bhagvan Shree Parshuram Jayanti/Ramjan-Eid (Eid-UI-Fitra)/Basava Jayanti/Akshaya Tritiya) and May 26 (Buddha Pournima), the RBI holiday calendar also showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bank-holidays-in-june-2021-banks-to-remain-closed-for-9-days-see-complete-list-here-101622037798488.html
26-05-2021||India||Uttarakhand’s global tender for Covid vaccine draws a blank; deadline extended||The Uttarakhand government has extended the deadline for Covid-19 vaccine manufacturers to respond to its global tender to buy the life-saving shots by about a week due to the absence of a response from any manufacturer. The first deadline for the tender floated on May 15 expired on May 25 and has been extended, a senior state government official said on Wednesday.“As no manufacturer participated in the tender process till the deadline of May 25, we have extended it till May 31,” Uttarakhand’s director general health, Dr Tripti Bahuguna, said.Several states floated global tenders after the Centre abruptly changed its vaccine procurement approach on April 21 and told states that they would have to get the vaccines from the manufacturers to vaccinate people in the 18-44 age group. The Centre has committed to continue supplying vaccines to states for people above the age of 45 and receives 50% of the vaccines produced by the country’s vaccine manufacturers.The change in policy has been severely criticised by opposition-ruled states.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday said US pharmaceutical giants Pfizer and Moderna have told the Aam Aadmi Party government that they will deal only with the central government, and not sell Covid-19 vaccines individually to states.“We hope the manufacturers will participate in the bidding process to enable us to place an order in the global market to procure vaccines,” a health department official said.When Uttarakhand was firming up the plan to issue a global tender, the state’s top bureaucrat chief secretary Om Prakash sounded optimistic that the global tender would help tide over the vaccine shortage.“A committee has been formed in this regard and in the next two months, we will import 20 lakh COVID vaccines. We are also talking to the Centre continuously in this regard”, Om Prakash said on May 12, pointing that the hill state was allocated just 1% of the total vaccines procured by the central government. “So, we are left with one option to import the vaccines.” On May 15 when the global tender was issued, Uttarakhand health secretary Amit Singh Negi said the government will try to import “Covishield and Sputnik V, which are among the three vaccines in our country which have got the Centre’s regulatory approvals”.Of the total requirement of 50 lakh doses, the state has already placed orders for 25 lakh doses for Covishield and about 2.5 lakh Covaxin doses in the country. The state government has decided to fund vaccination of people in the 18-44 age group at a cost of ₹450 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhands-global-tender-for-covid-vaccine-draws-a-blank-deadline-extended-101622036654159.html
26-05-2021||India||Tamil Nadu CM Stalin targets Centre over supply of vaccines to states||Chief minister M K Stalin on Wednesday hit out at the Centre over allocation of vaccines to states and said not only Tamil Nadu but several states faced constraints and to tackle the situation, the government has gone in for global bids to procure vaccines. The state government has been continuously requesting the Centre to increase allocation of vaccines and as of now, an inventory of 3,14,000 vaccine doses meant for the 45-plus age group is available, he said. For the 18-44 age group people, 12.85 lakh vaccine doses have been received and 11.50 lakh doses would be arriving and work is on at full swing to vaccinate high-risk category people and workers of large industries, he said. The purchase of vaccine for those in 18-44 age bracket is done by the state government. As regards supply of adequate doses of vaccines to states by the Centre, he told reporters that not only Tamil Nadu, but several states faced constraints. Only to tackle this situation, Tamil Nadu has floated global tenders for procurement of vaccines. "We also have plan to manufacture vaccines in Tamil Nadu," he said and recalled his visit to the Centre's HLL Biotech at Chengelpet near here on Tuesday. The facility "has been made non-operational" and the state government would continue to prevail upon the Centre to get it working, he said. After inaugurating a vaccination drive at a village in nearby Tiruvallur district, Stalin said the virus spread in cities including Chennai has been witnessing a phased decline and the situation would improve further. After his government took over on May 7, about 78,000 vaccine doses were being administered on an average as against the previous 61,000 doses right from day one of vaccination on January 16, he said. Also, vaccine wastage has been brought down to one per cent during the past two weeks while it was about six per cent before, he added. Asked on extension of the week long intense lockdown, he said though there is satisfaction to an extent vis-a-vis the curbs and correspondent fall in fresh cases, there is no "complete satisfaction" yet. Apparently, he indicated that the lockdown could be extended beyond May 31. A two-week lockdown commenced on May 10 in Tamil Nadu with some relaxations and later, the government extended the lockdown for one more week from May 24 with more curbs. The additional restrictions between May 24 and 31 include closure of vegetable shops and provision stores, which were allowed earlier to work between 6 AM and 10 AM. A 'full stop ' was not placed to the first wave of the virus last year and the result was the second wave, the CM claimed. He exuded confidence of full containment of the second wave of Covid-19 in Tamil Nadu. Arch-rival AIADMK was in power (2016-21) till April and the Chief Minister was K Palaniswami, when the first wave of the pandemic broke out in 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-cm-stalin-targets-centre-over-supply-of-vaccines-to-states-101622035193580.html
26-05-2021||India||WhatsApp’s refusal to comply with new rules a clear act of defiance: Centre||The Centre on Wednesday said that WhatsApp’s “last minute challenge” to the new social media and intermediary guidelines, all clauses of which came into effect on May 25, is a “clear act of defiance” and an “unfortunate attempt to keep the guidelines from coming into effect”.“WhatsApp’s challenge, at the very last moment, and despite having sufficient time and opportunity available during the consultation process and after the rules were enacted, to the Intermediary Guidelines is an unfortunate attempt to prevent the same from coming into effect,” the ministry said in a statement. “Any operations being run in India are subject to the law of the land. WhatsApp’s refusal to comply with the guidelines is a clear act of defiance of a measure whose intent can certainly not be doubted,” it added. A ministry official familiar with the matter said that the sections wherein the government is likely to seek the information are clearly defined in the new guidelines. “It is only in cases where serious crime has taken place, or are in the interest of national security, that such information will be sought and that too with the approval of the home secretary,” the official said. The government in its statement said that an order to trace first originator, under Rule 4(2) of the said guidelines, shall be passed “only for the purposes of prevention, investigation, punishment etc. of inter alia an offence relating to sovereignty, integrity and security of India, public order incitement to an offence relating to rape, sexually explicit material or child sexual abuse material punishable with imprisonment for not less than five years”.It highlighted how WhatsApp messages have been circulated when it came to cases of mob lynchings. “It is in public interest that who started the mischief leading to such crime must be detected and punished. We cannot deny as to how in cases of mob lynching and riots etc. repeated WhatsApp messages are circulated and recirculated whose content are already in public domain. Hence the role of who originated the message is very important,” the statement said. The government’s response came barely hours after the instant messaging platform moved Delhi high court against the new guidelines, stating that the rule to trace the first originator violates the fundamental right to privacy, is “unconstitutional” and “illegal”. HT on Tuesday reported that WhatsApp, Facebook and Twitter were among the significant social media intermediaries that were yet to comply with the government’s new guidelines and make three key appoints — that of a compliance officer, a resident grievance officer and a nodal contact person. The new guidelines state that any intermediary with 5 million or more users may lose its safe habour status if it fails to observe them. “As a significant social media intermediary, WhatsApp seeks a safe harbour protection as per the provisions of the Information Technology Act. However, in a befuddling act, they seek to avoid responsibility and refuse to enact the very steps which permit them a safe harbour provision,” the government statement added. The government also stated that while it respects the right to privacy and has no intention of violating it, no Fundamental Right, including the Right to Privacy, is absolute. “It is subject to reasonable restrictions. The requirements in the Intermediary Guidelines pertaining to the first originator of information are an example of such a reasonable restriction,” the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/whatsapps-refusal-to-comply-with-new-rules-a-clear-act-of-defiance-centre-101622035573915.html
26-05-2021||India||'He may still be here': Antigua police intensifies search for Mehul Choksi||Police in Antigua and Barbuda said they had intensified a search for fugitive Indian-born jeweller Mehul Choksi, who went missing on Sunday, and have requested international police coordination agency Interpol to issue a global alert.Indian federal police have filed fraud charges against Choksi, his nephew, Nirav Modi, and others in connection with their suspected involvement in fraudulent transactions that led to losses of about $2 billion for India's Punjab National Bank (PNB).PNB in 2018 alleged that a few rogue employees had issued fake bank guarantees over several years to help jewellery groups - controlled by Modi and Choksi - raise funds in foreign credit.Modi and Choksi left India before the fraud came to light but have denied any wrongdoing and have said in letters and statements they were innocent.Modi was arrested in London in 2019 and is fighting extradition to India. Choksi has been living in the Caribbean nation.Investigators have interviewed several relatives and associates of Choksi for information on his "sudden disappearance" and asked regional counterparts for assistance, the Royal Police Force of Antigua and Barbuda said in a statement late on Tuesday.Choksi was last seen on Sunday evening before leaving home in a car, which has since been recovered, the police said, in a notice seeking information from the public.The police said they had shared Choksi's details with Interpol for a "yellow notice", a global police alert for a missing person, to be circulated.Antiguan Prime Minister Gaston Browne told Parliament there was no reliable information to confirm that Choksi had left the country, according to a video posted by media outlet Antigua Newsroom."It is likely that he may still be here," Browne said, adding that Choksi was fighting two cases in the country relating to his extradition and his citizenship.Choksi's family members are worried and are co-operating with the investigation, his lawyer, Vijay Aggarwal, told Reuters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/he-may-still-be-here-antigua-police-intensifies-search-for-mehul-choksi-101622035332976.html
26-05-2021||India||Backlog deaths raise questions over actual Covid-19 fatalities in Uttarakhand||Uttarakhand has reported over 3,000 Covid-19 deaths over the last 25 days with officials saying they include many fatalities that were not reported earlier and have raised questions on the exact toll from the second wave of the pandemic.According to official data, 342 of 893 deaths reported between May 17-May 24 were added to the tally as hospitals had not reported them earlier. A Haridwar hospital alone had not reported at least 65 deaths to the state Covid-19 Control Room and prompted the state health department to issue notice to it. The department has directed all the hospitals to report all Covid-related deaths within 24 hours as per the protocol.Officials said hospitals have since then been reporting the backlog of deaths. The fatalities are now being added to the official data on daily basis.Also Read | How Odisha’s model of disaster preparedness came into beingOn May 22, Rishikesh’s All India Institute of Medical Science reported 20 backlog deaths. A day earlier, Roorkee’s Military Hospital reported 24 such fatalities. The Rudrapur District Hospital delayed reporting 267 Covid-19 deaths from April 14- May 13.Avinash Khanna, an additional chief medical officer, said the dedicated Covid Care centre at the district hospital provided the information only when the authorities there were told that a case will be lodged against them if they did not.Data related to positive, negative test reports as well as deaths of patients are sent daily to the state Covid Control Room in Dehradun. Khanna said the daily positive and negative report updates too were hit when one of the data entry operators tested positive for Covid. He added now the work is on to report the backlog of deaths.A health official, who did not wish to be named, said had the Control Room shown the strictness, question marks over the data would not have been raised.Also Read | The economic aftermath of the pandemic’s second waveActivist Anoop Nautiyal, who has been tracking the pandemic situation in the state, blamed callousness on part of the administration for the underreporting. He added the administration was not taking action against hospitals that are not reporting the deaths within 24 hours. “This is very unprofessional. In the fight against this severe pandemic, we cannot win against the virus if the data is not accurate and transparent. It is always sacrosanct as the policies are based on it. If this is not stopped, we will never come to know about the real picture.”Indian Medical Association national vice president DD Choudhury said if the hospitals are not reporting the exact deaths to the state health department, then that means the government is inefficient. “It is not that the government does not know what is going on in the hospitals especially the private ones right now. But it is not taking any stern action because some of the owners of those private hospitals have connections with high-ranking officials. And in some cases, senior government officials do not know the reality because their subordinates are hiding things from them,” said Choudhury.State health secretary Amit Negi said they have warned hospitals of strict action if they do not report the deaths to the state Covid-19 Control Room.A large number of hospitals that delayed reporting fatalities with the stipulated 24 hours are located in Haridwar, which has prompted the district administration to form three teams to monitor their management and deaths on daily basis. Haridwar district magistrate C Ravi Shankar said they too have issued a warning to hospitals. He added the three teams will also ensure the availability of medical oxygen and carry out physical verification of the Intensive Care Unit and Covid wards.Chief medical officer Shambu Nath Jha said in many cases hospital staffers contracted Covid-19 and this caused the delay in reporting the deaths. “We have directed every hospital to upload the data on the government portal within the time frame.”At least 9.1 million pilgrims visited Haridwar for the Mahakumbh this year, the event’s organisers said on April 29. The mega event was widely criticised for rampant violation of Covid-19 protocols and massive overcrowding during an alarming surge in cases. It coincided with an increase in Covid-19 cases and deaths in Uttarakhand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/backlog-deaths-raise-questions-over-actual-covid-19-fatalities-in-uttarakhand-101622034014014.html
26-05-2021||India||Odisha continues transporting oxygen amid Cyclone Yaas||The transportation of liquid medical oxygen (LMO) from Odisha remained unhindered even during the very severe cyclonic storm Yaas on Wednesday.According to an official release, four oxygen tankers were transported from Angul to Hyderabad and Visakhapatnam today, while two were transported from Jajpur to Berhampur and Bhubaneswar, under close supervision and escort from Odisha Police.As many as 263 Oxygen Expresses have completed their journey so far, including those carrying 680 MT from Odisha, West Bengal, and Jharkhand in the last 12 hours. A total of eight Oxygen Expresses have moved from the region.India Meteorological Department (IMD) Director General of Meteorology, Mrutyunjay Mohapatra said that the cyclone caused heavy to extremely heavy rain in Odisha in the past 24 hours and northern and coastal parts of the state are expected to receive heavy rainfall.The cyclone, estimated at 120-140 Km per hour wind speed made landfall around 9 am on Wednesday between Dhamra and Balasore in Odisha, Special Relief Commissioner PK Jena said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-continues-transporting-oxygen-amid-cyclone-yaas-101622032181484.html
26-05-2021||India||IMA writes to PM Modi on Ramdev statement, says clear-cut case of sedition||The Indian Medical Association (IMA) on Wednesday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to take "action under the sedition charges” against Ramdev over his statements questioning the efficacy of allopathy medicines and doctors and to stop the "misinformation campaign on vaccination” against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) by the yoga guru.“At this juncture, painfully we bring to your kind notice, the video claiming 10,000 doctors have died in spite of taking both the doses of the vaccine and lakhs of people have died due to allopathic medicine are circulating virally in the social media, as said by Mr. Ramdev, Owner of Patanjali products,” IMA said in its letter to PM Modi.Also read | HT Editorial: Not Ayurveda vs allopathyIMA was referring to a video of Ramdev in which he claimed that more than 10,000 doctors have died after getting two doses of the vaccine against the coronavirus disease.The country's medical association said that doctors follow the guidelines and protocols issued by the Union ministry of health and family welfare to treat millions of people. "If someone is claiming that the allopathic medicine has killed the people, it is an attempt to challenge the Ministry who has issued the protocol for treatment to us," it said.IMA in a letter to PM Modi, "Misinformation campaign on vaccination by Patanjali owner Ramdev should be stopped. In a video he claimed that 10,000 doctors & lakhs of people have died despite taking both doses of vaccine. Action under sedition charges should be taken against him." pic.twitter.com/kJ9inQQRJuAlso read | ‘If allopathy works...’: Now Ramdev has 25 questions for IMAIn the letter to PM Modi, the medical body said that “we have lost 753 doctors in the first wave and 513 in the second wave” of the pandemic as they served on the front line. “None in the first wave could receive the vaccine and the majority who had died in the second wave also couldn't take their vaccine for various reasons. Now deceitfully attributing 10000 people have died in spite of two doses of vaccination, is a deliberate move to stall the efforts of vaccination to reach our masses and it needs to be curtailed immediately,” it said.Also read | 'When allopathy doctors call Ayurveda pseudo-science': Ramdev to Harsh VardhanIt pointed out that IMA has time and again stated that its respects, acknowledges and compliments all systems of medicine, “especially our Indian system of Ayurvedic Medicine, as each system is helping our people differently. “We opposed certain drugs promoted without the approval of Ministry as a curative drug. We are pained to witness the great services rendered by nearly 10 lakh of modern medical doctors in the forefront to work with dedication to keep the mortality of our corona patients around 1 percent with the limited manpower and resources, which many developed countries couldn't achieve are ridiculed and called as a stupid system.”The body of doctors appealed to PM Modi to take appropriate action against those “viciously propagating the message of fear on vaccination” and challenging the government’s protocols for treatment for “their vested interest in their company products”. “This in our opinion is a clear-cut case of a sedition and such persons should be booked immediately without any delay under the charges of sedition. IMA is committed to serving with the government in this Covid-19 war,” it added.This comes after the Uttarakhand chapter of the top medical body sent a ₹1,000 crore defamation notice over his alleged statements against allopathy and "defaming" scientific medicine. Ramdev withdrew his statement on Sunday after receiving a strongly-worded letter from Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ima-writes-to-pm-modi-on-ramdev-statement-says-clear-cut-case-of-sedition-101622032544457.html
26-05-2021||India||Cyclone Yaas leaves a trail of destruction but strengthens monsoon winds||Very severe Cyclone, Yaas, made landfall about 25 to 30 km south of Balasore in Odisha on Wednesday morning, packing winds of 130 to 140 kmph gusting to 155 kmph, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD).It weakened marginally immediately after landfall but continued to be a very severe cyclone for a couple of hours more and a severe cyclone with wind speed of 100 to 110 kmph gusting to 120 kmph over land by the evening. “Yaas did not intensify further because it was relatively closer to the coast, the vertical wind shear (change in wind direction and speed at different heights) was not favourable and the sea surface temperatures were slightly lower near the coast. It may have intensified further, if not for these factors,” said Sunitha Devi, in charge, cyclones at IMD.Yaas is likely to move north-northwestwards and weaken gradually into a cyclonic storm during the next 6 hours, IMD said in its 2.30pm bulletin. It did not intensify rapidly and that could have multiplied the damage over Odisha and West Bengal coasts several fold. “Unlike Tauktae, after landfall, westerly dry winds affected Yaas which helped it dissipate. The moisture feed was reduced. Now it will remain a cyclone or a deep depression till Thursday morning,” said Mahesh Palawat, vice president, Skymet Weather.Also Read | Storm surge triggered by Yaas and spring tide inflict heavy damage in BengalParts of Odisha reported extremely heavy rain on Wednesday — Chandbali 29cm; Garadpur and Rajkanika 25cm each; Balikuda 19cm; Tirtol and Binjharpur 21cm each; and Paradip 20cm. Over Tamil Nadu, Kanyakumari recorded 24cm; over Kerala, Idukki recorded 19cm; and Thiruvananthapuram 17cm. IMD scientists said Yaas had helped strengthen monsoon winds and that monsoon onset over Kerala is likely next week.High waves in the range of 3.5 to 9.8 metres are forecasted for parts of both Odisha and West Bengal coasts from Wednesday evening to Thursday evening by Indian National Centre for Ocean Information Services (INCOIS). Extremely high waves were also recorded before and immediately after the landfall of Yaas but the height is yet to be validated through measurements on ground, IMD officials said.Independent experts said that both Arabian Sea and Bay of Bengal were exceptionally warm, making them favourable for development of powerful cyclones this month.“The similarity between Cyclone Yaas and Tauktae is that both are preceded by very high sea surface temperatures reaching 31– 32°C. These high temperatures were conducive for cyclone Tauktae to intensify into an extremely severe cyclone in a short time. Similarly, high temperatures are predicted to assist Yaas also for intensifying rapidly. However, there is one difference. Tauktae spent several days in the Arabian Sea where it could draw the heat and moisture continuously, reaching peak intensity of more than 220 km/hr. In the case of Yaas, it has formed in the north Bay of Bengal, and the travel distance to landfall is shorter. Here the common thread is that rising ocean temperatures in both the basins assisted these cyclones in their rapid intensification process,” said Roxy Mathew Koll, a climate scientist at Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology in a statement.According to IMD, Yaas may weaken to a depression only on Thursday morning. “Severe cyclone Yaas is moving towards Jharkhand. It will dissipate gradually reaching the intensity of a depression on Thursday morning. Till then its likely to bring a lot rain in its path,” added Sunitha Devi.Light to moderate rain at most places with heavy to very heavy rains and extremely heavy rain (over 20cm) is likely at few places over north interior Odisha during the next 24 hours and heavy to very heavy rainfall at isolated places over coastal Odisha during the next 12 hours. Moderate to heavy rain is likely over Medinipur, Jhargram, Bankura, South 24 parganas, Purulia, Nadia, Murshidabad, East Bardhaman, Howrah, Hooghly, Kolkata, North 24 Parganas, Haldia, Darjeeling, Kalimpong districts in West Bengal on Wednesday. Over Jharkhand very heavy to extremely heavy rain is likely at isolated places on Wednesday and Thursday.Experts said monsoon may arrive over Kerala a day in advance, as predicted by IMD. “Yaas helped pull the monsoon current head in the Arabian Sea. There was heavy to very heavy rain reported in many parts of Kerala in the last 24 hours so we are expecting monsoon to arrive early,” said Palawat.“Monsoon is likely to be on time. But we still have a few days, so we can’t say anything immediately. Let’s watch how conditions become favourable for its onset,” said M Mohapatra, director general, IMD.“Cross equatorial flow over the Arabian Sea has strengthened because of which very heavy rain was reported over Kerala. But that is not monsoon rain. We are expecting monsoon to arrive on May 31 or June 1,” said OP Sreejith, scientist and head, Climate Monitoring and Prediction Group.Monsoon is likely to arrive over Kerala on May 31, a day ahead of its normal arrival date of June 1, with a possible error margin of plus/minus four days, IMD had said on May 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-yaas-leaves-a-trail-of-destruction-but-strengthens-monsoon-winds-101622031798489.html
26-05-2021||India||‘Foolhardy to doubt objective’: Centre defends IT rules in row with WhatsApp||The Union ministry of electronics and information technology (MeitY) said on Wednesday the government "respects the right of privacy" as it responded to WhatsApp moving the Delhi high court against the new IT rules.Also Read | 'Dangerous invasion of privacy': WhatsApp moves Delhi HC against new IT rules"The government respects the right of privacy and has no intention to violate it when WhatsApp is required to disclose the origin of a particular message," the ministry said in a press release on Wednesday evening. "Such requirements are only in the case when the message is required for prevention, investigation or punishment of very serious offences related to the sovereignty and integrity of India, the security of the state, friendly relations with foreign states, or public order, or of incitement to an offence relating to the above or in relation with rape, sexually explicit material or child sexual abuse material," the release further said.Emphasising that the right to privacy is a fundamental right, the ministry further gave pointers on how the new rules are in "abiding public interest," are as per "law of the land," and "have an international precedence.""Government is committed to ensure the right of privacy to all its citizens but at the same time it is also the responsibility of the government to maintain law and order and ensure national security," the ministry quoted Union IT minister Ravi Shankar Prasad as saying. "None of the measures proposed by India will impact the normal functioning of WhatsApp in any manner whatsoever and for the common users, there will be no impact," the minister further said.None of the measures proposed by India will impact the normal functioning of WhatsApp in any manner whatsoever and for the common users, there will be no impact. @rsprasad @GoI_MeitY @PIB_India @SanjayDhotreMP @DDNewslive @airnewsalertsOn February 25, Prasad and information and broadcasting (I&B) minister Prakash Javadekar announced the new IT rules, giving social media giants like Twitter, Facebook and Instagram three months, i.e. till May 25, to comply with the government directives. The deadline elapsed on Tuesday. While Twitter is yet to comment on the issue, Facebook has said it is "working on the new rules." However, it added that "a few of the issues need more engagement with the government."Also Read | Deadline ends; aim to comply: FacebookWhatsApp, which is owned by Facebook, moved the Delhi high court on Tuesday, stating in its plea that the rules are "unconstitutional," "illegal" and a "dangerous invasion of privacy."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/we-respect-right-of-privacy-govt-on-whatsapp-s-challenge-to-it-rules-101622031271979.html
26-05-2021||India||India administers 200 million Covid vaccine doses, second-fastest country after US||More than 200 million doses of the vaccine against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) have been administered on the 130th day under the Centre’s inoculation drive that started on January 16, the Union minister of health and family welfare said on Wednesday. India has become the second country after the US to cross the 200-million-mark, the health ministry also said.#LargestVaccineDrive➡️ India crosses 20 Crore Cumulative #COVID19 Vaccination Coverage in 130 days. ➡️ After the USA, India is the 2nd country to achieve this mark.https://t.co/VHo4RvqA8E pic.twitter.com/R7VkRGJa3JData shared by the health ministry showed that the United States took 124 days to complete 200 million jabs while India was the second-fastest to reach the mark, having done it in 130 days. Among other countries, the United Kingdom has given 61 million doses in 168 days, Brazil has administered 59 million doses in 128 days and Germany, France and Italy have administered 45 million doses, 33 million doses and 31 million doses respectively in 149 days, the data also showed.In a press release, the health ministry said that 200,662,456 doses of the Covid-19 vaccine have been delivered so far, as of 7am on Wednesday. This includes 157,149,593 first doses and 43,512,863 second doses of the vaccine, the data from the ministry showed. “As per the latest available data with the Union Health Ministry, over 34 percent [of the] population above 45 years has received at least 1st dose of COVID-19 vaccine in India till date. Similarly, over 42 percent of 60+ years of population in India has received at least 1st dose of COVID-19 vaccine,” the ministry added.Also read | Delhi reports 1,491 new Covid-19 cases as positivity rate falls below 2%, 130 more deaths recordedCurrently, three vaccines are being used by the government for its massive inoculation drive—Covishield, manufactured by the Serum Institute of India in Pune, and Covaxin of the Bharat Biotech in Hyderabad. "The Russian Sputnik V is the third vaccine to get approval from the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) for Emergency Use Authorisation and is being used in few private hospitals which are expected to be increased over the coming days," the ministry added.India’s vaccination drive entered its third phase on May 1 and the scope of the programme was expanded to include all people above 18 years of age. In the first phase, only healthcare workers and frontline workers were immunised on priority. Later on March 1, people above 60 years of age and between above 45 and 59 years with comorbidities were included in the drive. This was further expanded on April 1 to include all people above 45 years of age.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-administers-200-million-covid-vaccine-doses-second-fastest-country-after-us-101622030727101.html
26-05-2021||India||UP records sharp decline in active cases of Covid-19 in about a month, conducts record number of tests in 24 hours||Uttar Pradesh has seen a sharp decline in the number of active cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in less than one month, the state government said on Wednesday. From a peak of 3,10,783 on April 30, the number of active cases came down to 62,271 on Tuesday (just 20 per cent), the state government data showed.The state government also said that recovery rate in India's most populous state has surpassed 95 per cent. The state recorded 3,371 new cases of Covid-19 in the last 24 hours, while 10,540 people recovered from the infection, the government data showed on Wednesday.The daily Covid positivity rate - the number of samples testing positive for the infection from total tests done - on Tuesday dipped below 1 per cent in state again for the first time since the middle of last month, according to the official data.The positivity rate was at its highest - at 16.84 per cent on April 24 - during the second wave of the pandemic, and has now come down to a low of 0.93 per cent.The state government also said that Uttar Pradesh recorded more daily recoveries than the number of fresh cases for 25th consecutive day.The state conducted as many as 3,58,273 Covid-19 tests in the last 24 hours, which according to Uttar Pradesh government is a nationwide record.On Tuesday, chief minister Yogi Adityanath said that an aggressive campaign is being run in the state against Covid-19 on the lines of the drive against encephalitis disease."We are running an aggressive campaign against the third wave of COVID-19 on the lines of the encephalitis campaign as we were able to bring down the encephalitis death rate to a minimum level during the last three years," he said in Gorakhpur."Preparation in each district is in full swing. Preparation is underway for 100-bed PICU ward at each medical college," Adityanath added. He also said that the state government has already started making preparations for the third wave of Covid-19 on war footing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-records-sharp-decline-in-active-cases-of-covid-19-recovery-rate-above-95-101622030517367.html
26-05-2021||India||Cyclone Yaas weakens after lashing Odisha, Bengal coasts; heavy rains forecast||Cyclone Yaas, which made landfall in Odisha’s Bhadrak district on Wednesday morning, has weakened into a severe cyclonic storm after battering Odisha and West Bengal with a wind speed of 130-145kmph, inundating the low-lying areas amid a storm surge, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. The weather bureau said in a statement that the wind speed surged as high as 155 kilometres in some areas and sea levels of more than 2 meters above regular tides inundated several low-lying areas.Yaas, which was earlier classified as a very severe cyclonic storm, hit the coast north of Dhamra in Odisha's Bhadrak district and 50km south of Balasore, close to Bahanaga block, around 9am, weather officials said. The landfall process was over around 1.30pm, they added.Houses damaged, millions affectedWest Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee told reporters Cyclone Yaas destroyed more than 300,000 houses and affected 10 million people in the state even as about 1.5 million residents were evacuated to safer areas. Banerjee said river embankments have been breached, damaging some crops and fisheries and livestock farms. She claimed that West Bengal was the most affected state due to the cyclone and that relief material worth ₹10 crore were sent to the affected areas. "At least one crore people in Bengal have been affected by this natural disaster. As of now, 300,000 houses have been damaged. One person died an accidental death even after he was rescued," the chief minister said.Also read | Cyclone Yaas makes landfall: Measures to stay safeOdisha's special relief commissioner PK Jena said seawater entered several villages in Bahanaga and Remuna blocks in the Balasore district, and Dhamra and Basudevpur in the Bhadrak district. Jena said the administration with the help of the locals is taking measures to drain out the saline water from the villages. Authorities in Mayurbhanj district have started evacuating certain vulnerable points on both sides of the river and also from some low-lying areas in the Baripada town, he said. Restoration works for power lines have started in some places in Jagatsinghpur, Kendrapara and Jajpur district after cables were snapped, Jena said, adding that not much damage was caused in these districts.Two people were reportedly killed in Odisha as very severe cyclonic storm Yaas made landfall near a coastal village in Balasore. Reports said that several boats, shops and houses were damaged in the state and scores of trees were uprooted. Odisha moved more than 500,000 people to relief centres where authorities have asked people to maintain social distancing to check the spread of the coronavirus disease.Jharkhand continued evacuating low-lying areas amid the forecast that the cyclone would be hitting the state by midnight, officials in Ranchi said. East Singhbhum, West Singhbhum and Saraikela-Kharsawan districts of the state are likely to witness "very high seas" situation with wind speed of 92-117kmph, the weather office said. "We are ready to deal with the situation and have formed rescue teams," director general of police Neeraj Sinha told PTI.Airports shut, trains cancelledCyclone Yaas impacted several flights in the affected states as airports in Kolkata and Durgapur in West Bengal and Odisha’s Bhubaneswar, Jharsuguda and Rourkela will remain shut for commercial flights. "The closure will be reviewed as per the weather. Airports directed to carry restoration to restart operations ASAP,” Airports Authority of India (AAI) said in a series of tweets.Indian Railways said more than 30 passenger trains have been cancelled till May 29. "38 long-distance South-bound and Kolkata-bound passenger trains will remain cancelled from May 24 to 29...The Railways authority will refund the ticket charges of the passengers," the North East Frontier Railway said in a statement.Also watch: Cyclone Yaas pounds Odisha-Bengal coasts, IMD says may reach Jharkhand\Heavy rainsThe weather bureau has predicted extremely heavy rainfall in West Bengal’s East and West Midnapore districts and heavy to very heavy rainfall in Jhargram, Bankura, South 24 Parganas districts over the next 24 hours. It added that heavy rain will occur at isolated places in Purulia, Nadia, Murshidabad, Purba Bardhaman, Howrah, Hooghly, Kolkata, North 24 Parganas, Darjeeling and Kalimpong districts owing to the effect of Yaas.A red warning of heavy to very heavy rainfall was issued for nine districts in Odisha. "Heavy to very heavy rainfall at a few places with isolated extremely heavy fall very likely to occur over the districts of Balasore, Bhadrak, Jajpur, Kendrapada, Jagatsinghpur, Cuttack, Mayurbhanj, Keonjhar and Dhenkanal," the weather office said.Photos: Cyclone Yaas weakens after hitting the coasts of Odisha and BengalThe weather office said that the system lay centred at about 15km west of Balasore at 1.30pm with intensity of 100-110kmph, gusting to 120kmph. It would move north-northwestwards and weaken gradually into a cyclonic storm during the next six hours, it added.Bangladesh’s weather officials said the storm was likely to swamp low-lying areas of 14 coastal districts, bringing tides 0.91 meters to 1.22 metres higher than normal, and advised fishing boats and trawlers to stay in shelter.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-yaas-weakens-after-lashing-odisha-bengal-coasts-heavy-rains-forecast-101622029122483.html
26-05-2021||India||'A new weapon': Dr Naresh Trehan on Covid-19 antibody cocktail||The antibody cocktail, which was approved by India's drug regulator earlier this month, is working against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), one of the top doctors in the country Dr Naresh Trehan said on Wednesday. He also said that the combination of casirivimab and imdevimab is effective against the B.1.617 variant, first found in India."When casirivimab and imdevimab are injected into infected patient in early stage, it blocks virus from entering cells of patient. It is working against Covid-19 and also effective against B.1.617. This is a new weapon," Dr Naresh Trehan, chairman of Medanta Hospitals, was quoted as saying by new agency ANI.An 84-year-old man from Haryana became the first person in India to be administered the Covid drug cocktail developed by pharmaceutical giant Roche. Mohabbat Singh, who was under treatment for the last five days Medanta Hospital in Gurugram, was on Tuesday given the drug over a 30-minute intravenous supply."The man with multiple comorbidities got injected yesterday and he went home. We're going to follow him. Virus multiplication drops especially in those people who have high virus load and also in those who are at high risk of severe infection," said Dr Trehan."It has been used extensively in USA and Europe. The experience shows that when the it is given in first seven days of infection, 70-80% of people who're going to be entering hospitals for treatment will not need hospitalisation," he added.The Roche cocktail came into limelight after it was administered to former US President Donald Trump when he tested positive for the virus last year.Casirivimab and imdevimab are monoclonal antibodies that are specifically directed against the spike protein of Sars-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, and are designed to block the virus’ attachment and entry into human cells.The company announced on Monday that it is now available in India, adding that the cost per patient dose will be ₹59,750. Each of the 100,000 packs to be available in India offers treatment for two patients.It is to be administered for the treatment of mild to moderate Covid-19 in adults and paediatric patients (12 years of age or older, weighing at least 40 kg) who are confirmed to be infected with Sars-CoV-2 and who are at high risk of developing severe disease, and do not require oxygen.The FDA-approved therapy demonstrated good efficacy in Phase 1/2 and Phase 3 studies by reducing Covid-19 related hospitalisation and death by 70 per cent.Dr Trehan, however, said that patients are advised to check with their doctor if monoclonal antibody therapy may be beneficial to them in the treatment of their Covid-19 infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-new-weapon-dr-naresh-trehan-on-covid-19-antibody-cocktail-101622029112044.html
26-05-2021||India||New social media guidelines ‘dire, drastic and draconian, says Congress||The Congress on Wednesday attacked the government over the new social media guidelines and called them “dire, drastic and draconian” while comparing the “freak control” model with that of North Korea.“The issuance of the new intermediary guidelines is a reflection of the Modi government’s obsession with dictatorship and suppressing dissent. The BJP [Bharatiya Janata Party] government is suffering from Big Daddy syndrome which is a control freak syndrome,” said Congress leader Abhishek Singhvi. “These guidelines are against India’s culture of discourse, deliberation, and dissent. The Modi government is strangulating our culture.”The guidelines were notified under the Information Technology Act on February 25 and gave the digital media firms three months to implement new content moderation mechanisms, appoint new officers, who will be liable for compliance, and adopt features such as traceability of messages.Also Read | Dangerous invasion of privacy: WhatsApp moves Delhi HC against new IT rulesSinghvi cited the 2017 Puttaswamy judgement in which the Supreme Court declared the right to privacy a fundamental right. He said privacy is important in the era of social media. “End-to-end encryption is the backbone of privacy in this era. The Modi government’s disregard for privacy is appalling.”WhatsApp moved the Delhi high court on Tuesday seeking the scrapping of the traceability provision in the new rules for the digital media companies for identifying originators of messages, saying it “unconstitutional”, “illegal” and a “dangerous invasion of privacy”.Singhvi compared the new rules to the North Korean model. “What you wish to implement would make the North Korean model of social media control blush. They should be seeking admission to the new Modi government school to learn these new mechanisms.” He called freedom of speech and expression and privacy the two pillars of democracy and the “vital oxygen” needed for it to exist. Singhvi asked the government not to “strangulate” the oxygen.There was no immediate response from the BJP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-social-media-guidelines-dire-drastic-and-draconian-says-congress-101622029153766.html
26-05-2021||India||'Dangerous invasion of privacy': WhatsApp moves Delhi HC against new IT rules||New Delhi: Instant messaging application WhatsApp has contested the government’s new social media guidelines and has asked the Delhi High Court to scrap the traceability provision as it is “unconstitutional” and “illegal” as it constitutes a “dangerous invasion of privacy”. It has also sought that no criminal liability is imposed for any non-compliance with the rules.The messaging platform on Tuesday moved the court against the new rules announced in February for digital media companies, saying the requirement for them to adopt features such as traceability for identifying originators of messages violated the right to privacy under the Indian law and the company’s end-to-end encryption policy. The deadline to comply with section (4) of the rules lapsed on May 25, three months after they were notified with prominent social media platforms such as Twitter, Facebook and WhatsApp not taking the necessary measures.The company contests the rule that enables traceability of the first originator on the grounds that it lacks legislative competence, violation of fundamental rights and for exceeding the limit of the parent Act (Information and Technology Act, 2000). WhatsApp feels that requesting intermediaries to identify the first originator of messages constitutes “a dangerous invasion of privacy”.Also Read | ‘Will make N Korea blush’: Cong’s acerbic attack on Centre over new IT rulesIn its petition, seen by Hindustan Times, the company has argued that it has always worked to ensure that communication between users is “free” and “without fear”, for which reason it uses end-to-end encryption. The messaging application has constantly asserted that the only ones who can decrypt the messages are the recipients, and even WhatsApp cannot access the information. Observance of the new guidelines will require a companywide change for WhatsApp in terms of storing information and breaking end-to-end encryption.HT reached out to the ministry but did not receive a response immediately.WhatsApp’s encryption enables “freedom of expression”, for various stakeholders, including government officials, journalists, members of ethnic or religious groups, teachers and students alike without “fear of retaliation”, the petition states.The company has further highlighted that enabling such a trace would require it to store data of every user for a long time in order to enable the government to identify the first originator. The company has also factored in concerns raised by various key actors on how traceability will compromise the fundamental right to privacy. It has cited concerns raised by the Software Freedom Law Centre, Centre for Communication and Governance at National Law University and COAI.Also Read| WhatsApp’s refusal to comply with new rules a clear act of defiance: CentreThe company believes that enabling the provision will put users at risk of retaliation, such as journalists and political activists.Citing the Puttaswamy judgment of 2017, WhatsApp has established that the rule infringes upon the fundamental right to privacy as it does not meet the legality, necessity and proportionality requirement.Moreover, the argument that the rule is ultra vires the parent provision, section 79 of the IT Act, 2000 has also been factored in, as the section only allows the government to prescribe “due diligence” to maintain their immunity.In terms of sharing information with law enforcement agencies, WhatsApp already has a dedicated team of individuals who review and respond to requests for user data in the country.Concerns regarding traceability being incompatible with end-to-end encryption have been raised by several platforms, including Signal, another popular messaging mobile application and various civil society activists.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dangerous-invasion-of-privacy-whatsapp-moves-delhi-hc-against-new-it-rules-101622028974026.html
26-05-2021||India||News updates from HT: BJP lawmaker seeks Shashi Tharoor's removal as parliamentary panel head and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.BJP lawmaker seeks Tharoor’s removal as parliamentary panel headBharatiya Janata Party (BJP) lawmaker Nishikant Dubey has sought Shashi Tharoor’s removal as the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Information Technology chairperson for allegedly using the panel to further his political agenda. Read moreTamil Nadu govt to move resolution in assembly against farm lawsTamil Nadu chief minister MK Stalin on Wednesday said his government will bring a resolution in the state assembly asking the Centre to withdraw the three farm laws, which were passed in September and triggered protests. Read more'Similar to what Razzaq had said about Bumrah': Kaneria slams Amir for 'out of the blue' remark about star India batsmanFormer Pakistan leg-sinner Danish Kaneria is not impressed with a recent statement made by Mohammad Amir about an India batsman. Read moreMadhuri Dixit’s young co-star in Prem Granth is Saloni Chopra of MTV Girls On Top. See her picsActor Saloni Chopra, known for playing Isha Jaisingh in MTV Girls On Top, took a trip down memory lane as actor Madhuri Dixit shared an Instagram post to mark 25 years of the release of Prem Granth. Read moreApple's iOS 14.6 update speeds up automated tasks via the Shortcuts app: ReportOn Monday, Apple rolled out the iOS 14.6 update to compatible iPhones, bringing Apple Card support, Podcasts subscriptions, improvements to Accessibility and Find My for AirTag, along with important security and bug fixes. Read moreMan tracks down laptop owner to return lost device, wins netizen’s heartsA single heartwarming conversation went viral on LinkedIn within a day. Here is the story behind the exchange. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-bjp-lawmaker-seeks-shashi-tharoor-s-removal-as-parliamentary-panel-head-and-all-the-latest-news-101622027840448.html
26-05-2021||India||'5 major states in safe zone': Harsh Vardhan says India gradually winning fight against Covid-19||Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan said on Wednesday that the country is crossing a new milestone, step by step, towards an eventual victory against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), highlighting that five major states are now in a "safe zone.""The country is slowly but steadily crossing every milestone of a victory against Covid-19. Five major states are now in a safe zone. The number of new positive cases, as well as active cases, is coming down every day. In the next seven days, the infection rate may come down in 15 states, big and small," a rough translation of Vardhan's tweet, posted in Hindi, read.#COVID19 के खिलाफ़ लड़ाई में देश धीरे-धीरे जीत के एक-एक पड़ाव को पार कर रहा है। भारत के पांच प्रमुख राज्य अब सुरक्षित जोन में आ गए हैं। नए और सक्रिय रोगियों की संख्या में भी लगातार गिरावट आ रही है। 15 छोटे-बड़े प्रदेशों में अगले 7 दिन में संक्रमण दर नीचे आ सकती है।@PMOIndia pic.twitter.com/0v5cOhZhHgThe health minister attached with his tweet a clipping of a Hindi daily, which stated that the rate of infection has dipped to under 5% in five states -- Delhi, Gujarat, Bihar, Jharkhand and Uttar Pradesh. The clipping further stated that the situation would improve in five more states -- Uttarakhand, Punjab, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh and Telangana -- in the coming days."According to the World Health Organization (WHO), an infection rate of less than 5% means that a pandemic is under control," the clipping said. It compared the infection rate in Delhi, Gujarat, Bihar, Jharkhand and Uttar Pradesh on May 17 and May 24, respectively: 13% and 4.5% (Delhi), 7.2% and 4.6% (Gujarat), 7% and 3.8% (Gujarat), 7.2% and 3.7% (Bihar) and 5.9% and 2.2% (Uttar Pradesh). It also showed that the current infection rate in Uttarakhand, Punjab, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh and Telangana is 9.6%, 7.9%, 7.3%, 5.7% and 5.3% respectively.India is currently witnessing a relative fall in its daily cases of Covid-19. In the last 24 hours, there were 208,921 new positive cases, 295,955 recoveries and 4,157 related deaths, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare's (MoHFW) data on Wednesday morning. According to the data, the country's infection tally has increased to 27,157,795, including 24,350,816 recoveries, 2,495,591 active cases and 311,388 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5-major-states-in-safe-zone-harsh-vardhan-says-india-gradually-winning-fight-against-covid19-101622023508534.html
26-05-2021||India||No major damage as Cyclone Yaas hits northern Odisha coast, 2 dead||Two people were reportedly killed in Odisha as very severe cyclonic storm Yaas made landfall near a coastal village in Balasore district battering the northern coastline of the state with a sustained wind speed of 140 to 145 kmph gusting upto 155 kmph. It then weakened into a severe cyclonic storm by Wednesday afternoon.IMD officials said very severe cyclonic storm Yaas made landfall on Barajadhauli village in Balasore district on the Odisha coast at 9 am and then moved north-north-westwards wreaking havoc on coastal Balasore and Bhadrak district. By 1 pm the landfall process had been completed as it lay about 15 km west-southwest of Balasore.Special relief commissioner Pradip Jena said the cyclone did not inflict any major damage as it had considerably weakened from its initial assessment. He said that tidal waves of 2-3 meters height inundated low lying areas of Balasore and Bhadrak districts. “The wind speed will decrease to 100 kmph after it crosses Balasore to reach Mayurbhanj district and then decrease to 65-75 kmph gusting to 85 kmph by evening. Under the influence of the cyclone, heavy to very heavy rainfall has been witnessed at many places in North Odisha in the last 24 hours,” he said. ALSO READ | Cyclone Yaas makes landfall over Odisha, West Bengal coastsThe initial report of a cyclone-related casualty came from Keonjhar district when an elderly man was crushed to death after a tree toppled due to strong winds at Panchapalli village under Anandpur block. In Balasore district, a young man in Nilgiri was killed after a tree fell on him. Pradip Jena, however, said both the deaths are being investigated. Under the impact of the storm, tidal surges inundated 3 seaside villages in Balasore district marooning about 5,000 people. State government officials said people in Banajoka, Charigochhia and Naupalagadi villages under Balasore block were marooned by the waters of tidal surge. Sea water entered villages in Talsara region of Jaleswar block of Balasore district. Similarly, a flash flood in Basudevpur block of Bhadrak district marooned people in 10 villages. People in Basudevpur dug up a road to divert seawater that had entered a residential area.Cyclone Yaas triggered very heavy rainfall in most parts of north coastal Odisha on Wednesday morning with Chandbali station in Bhadrak district receiving the maximum rainfall of 288.3 mm followed by 251 mm in Rajkanika of Kendrapada district. Garadpur and Marshaghai in Kendrapara district received 245 mm and 229mm rains respectively while Kujang, Tirtol and Paradeep in Jagatsinghpur district and Binjharpur in Jajpur district received more than 200mm rainfall each in the last 24 hours.At least 19 stations, in Jajpur, Keonjhar, Kendrapada, Balasore, Bhadrak, and Puri received above 100 mm rainfall this morning. In Puri district, Kakatpur and Astaranga received heavy rains. In Chandipur coast of Balasore, sea water entered a resort.Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik said multiple teams are working towards speedy restoration pertaining to damages caused by Cyclone Yaas. Patnaik said PWD Balasore along with QRT teams and ODRAF teams are removing fallen trees in different parts of the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-major-damage-as-cyclone-yaas-hits-northern-odisha-coast-2-dead-101622028433594.html
26-05-2021||India||'Diabetes and steroid use not the only possible reasons for contracting mucormycosis': Top doctor||At a time when health experts are concerned about the rising number of mucormycosis, or black fungus, cases in the country, principal scientific adviser to the government of India, Dr K VijayRaghavan, shared a thread on micro-blogging website Twitter which explains what causes the infection and how people can lower their chances of contracting it. The twitter thread has been creatd by Dr Pramesh CS, director of Tata Memorial Hospital.A clear and important thread on Mucor: What they are, how they cause infections, how to treat the infection, how to lower chances of infection, prevent infection, by controlling diabetes, steroid use. Finally, reduce possibilities of getting COVID: Masks, distance, ventilation! https://t.co/wVgEYaaBl7Mucormycosis is a very rare infection which is caused by exposure to mucor mould (a fungus) which is commonly found in soil, plants, manure, and decaying fruits and vegetables. In the Twitter thread, Dr Pramesh has explained how the mucor spreads."Mucor is a fungal infection caused by “mucormycetes”, a group of fungi. These fungi are ubiquitous - in soil, fallen leaves, compost, and air. Yet, most of us don’t develop the disease," he said.First, how does mucor spread & how do patients with #COVID-19 get infected with it? Mucor is a fungal infection caused by “mucormycetes”, a group of fungi. These fungi are ubiquitous – in soil, fallen leaves, compost, and air. Yet, most of us don’t develop the disease pic.twitter.com/w0ero1nSRc"How does someone get infected with mucor? Most commonly, it is inhaled through the nose. Wearing a mask therefore, probably helps prevent it. Is mucor contagious? No - you can’t get infected by being in close contact with someone else who has the disease," he further added in the series of tweets.He then talks about what makes people more prone to developing mucor? Dr Pramesh said that by far the most important reason is reduced immunity. "There are several reasons for this - diabetes, being on steroids, taking immunosuppressant drugs, chemotherapy, and so on," said Dr Pramesh.He also said that diabetes and steroid use are not the only possible reasons for the spread of the infection. "We’ve also heard about possible industrial grade oxygen, tap water in humidifiers, reused masks, antibiotic overuse, all being possible reasons. Again, the truth is that we just don’t know," said Dr Pramesh.The top doctor then went on to talk about the chances of contracting mucor. The first thing he said is to make sure blood sugar levels of diabetics remain in control. Dr Pramesh also said that steroids should not be used unless prescribed by a doctor. "Indiscriminate steroid use harms in two ways - first it reduces your immunity; second, it raises your blood sugar levels. Both of these predispose you to getting infected with mucor," he said.He, however, did not say that steroids should not be used on Covid-19 treatment, but asked people to be careful about not using them when they are not required.The symptoms listed by Dr Parmesh include swelling of one side of the face, a feeling of stuffed nose, headache, red eyes, blackening of the bridge of nose or palate, discharge from the nose, and fever. He cautioned that mucormycosis should not be managed at home. "Mucor requires urgent hospitalization and treatment - please get admitted in a hospital," he said on Twitter.Do whatever you can to prevent infection with COVID_19. The 3 Ws – Wear a mask, Watch your distance, Wash your handsAnd get vaccinated whenever you are eligible.Take care, and stay safe, folks.Mucormycosis affects the sinuses, the brain and the lungs and can be life-threatening in diabetic or severely immuno-compromised individuals such as cancer patients or people with HIV/AIDS.The doctors in India are documenting an alarming number of cases of mucormycosis among patients with Covid-19 and those who have recently recovered. They believe that mucormycosis may be triggered by the use of steroids, a life-saving treatment for severe and critically ill Covid-19 patients.Eleven states and Uniomn territories have declared mucormycosis as an epidemic under the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897. The Union health ministry reported 5,424 cases of mucormycosis across India, out of which 4,556 patients have a history of Covid-19 infection with 55 per cent diabetics.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-can-a-person-get-mucormycosis-infection-top-doctor-answers-101622027469389.html
26-05-2021||India||'1 crore people affected by Cyclone Yaas, 3 lakh houses damaged': Mamata Banerjee||Cyclone Yaas, which began its landfall on Wednesday morning near Dhamra port in Odisha, has completed the process, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, whose state is also in storm's path, said that at least 1 crore people have been affected and three lakh houses damaged due to rough weather conditions arising out of the cyclone.Track Live Updates"Cyclone Yaas has complete the process of landfall. Rainfall will continue till tomorrow. Fishermen are advised not to venture till tomorrow morning because the sea condition going to be rough," said Umashankar Das, senior scientist, Meteorological Centre, Bhubaneswar.IMD director general of meteorology, Mrutyunjay Mohapatra, said earlier in the day that the cyclone is likely to reach Jharkhand on Thursday morning.Also Read: Measures to stay safe as Cyclone Yaas makes landfallAccording to IMD estimates, Yaas will gradually weaken into a severe cyclonic storm in the next three hours, and into a cyclonic storm during the subsequent six hours.Meanwhile, Mamata Banerjee held a review meeting with district magistrates, disaster management committee and other officials in West Bengal. Later, addressing the media, she said that Bengal happens to be the "most-affected state"."I will soon be undertaking an aerial survey of the affected areas in Purba Medinipur, South 24 Parganas and North 24 Parganas districts," Banerjee said."We will be conducting field surveys to get a final estimate... It will take us at least 72 hours to get a clearer idea," she added.The chief minister further said that as many as 15,04,506 people have been evacuated from the vulnerable areas in the state and moved to safer places.Cyclone Yaas was packing gusts of up to 140 kmph as it hit land, authorities said. It destroyed tens of thousands of mud houses in Odisha and West Bengal, and forced the closure of the busiest regional airport in Kolkata.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/1-crore-people-affected-by-cyclone-yaas-3-lakh-houses-damaged-mamata-101622024884442.html
26-05-2021||India||Assam appoints ‘guardian ministers’ for its various districts||The Assam Cabinet on Wednesday appointed ministers who would act as guardians for different districts in the state.These guardians, each a minister of the Himanta Biswa Sarma Cabinet, have been given the responsibility of 2-3 districts to take stock of welfare schemes, implementation of infrastructure projects etc.“The guardian ministers will be responsible for administration in the districts under their charge. But they won’t be directly involved with people from those districts,” said parliamentary affairs minister Pijush Hazarika.“Earlier, there was a provision of in-charge ministers, but their specific roles and responsibilities were not clearly defined. The guardian ministers will follow the decisions taken by the Cabinet about their duties,” he added.The guardian ministers will be assigned with a secretary each and both will have to visit their districts at least once a month. They will also have to visit the districts during emergency situations and conduct extensive tours during natural disasters like floods, cyclones etc.Also Read | Assam extends Corona curfew till June 5; offices in urban areas to stay closed“They will review the implementation of various government schemes in the districts and submit a report to the chief minister,” said Hazarika.The ministers may also recommend awards for best practices followed in their districts and prepare vision documents after consultation with different departments. They will also prepare plans for job creation by utilising the resources the districts have.Meanwhile, the Cabinet also approved creation of a Bodoland welfare department for all issues related to four districts falling under Bodoland Territorial Region. Setting up of a Bodoland administrative staff college at Kokrajhar was also cleared.The Cabinet also expressed condolences on the death of Bodoland Peoples’ Front MLA from Gossaigaon, Majendra Narzary, who succumbed to post Covid-19 complications in Guwahati earlier in the day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-appoints-guardian-ministers-for-its-various-dists-101622023273389.html
26-05-2021||India||'Will make N Korea blush’: Cong’s acerbic attack on Centre over new IT rules||The Centre’s new information technology rules that forced Facebook Inc’s messaging platform WhatsApp to petition the Delhi high court are aimed at asphyxiating democracy and curbing dissent, the Congress said on Wednesday.The new rules are "dire, drastic and draconian", Congress leader Abhishek Singhvi said at an online media briefing on Wednesday as he sought to scale up the offensive against the rules that were notified three months earlier in February but came into effect at midnight.“The issuance of the new intermediary guidelines reflect the BJP government's syndrome, which is a ‘Big Daddy syndrome’. It is a control freak syndrome…. You would make the North Korean model of control of the media blush,” Singhvi said.The Congress’ harshly-worded criticism of the rules comes hours after WhatsApp confirmed that it had approached the Delhi high court against provisions in the rules that require it to ensure that it can trace the origin of messages.Also Read| WhatsApp’s refusal to comply with new rules a clear act of defiance: Centre“Requiring messaging apps to “trace” chats is the equivalent of asking us to keep a fingerprint of every single message sent on WhatsApp, which would break end-to-end encryption and fundamentally undermines people’s right to privacy,” the WhatsApp spokesperson saidWhatsApp has asked the Delhi high court to scrap the traceability provision as it is “unconstitutional”, “illegal” and constitutes a “dangerous invasion of privacy”.In a blog, WhatsApp said some governments were seeking to force technology companies to find out who sent a particular message on private messaging services. It said providing traceability for messages would break the end-to-end encryption and would severely undermine the privacy of billions of people who communicate digitally.“Then, what is the point of end-to-end encryption… It is like a camera in your drawing room or bedroom,” said Singhvi.The Congress leader, also a senior lawyer, said under the new rules, social media and messaging platforms that do not comply with these provisions will not get the protection extended to intermediaries. This means these companies will be liable for messages that are transmitted via their platforms.The rules were designed to curb free speech, particularly on social media which the government has not been able to control so far, Singhvi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-make-n-korea-blush-cong-s-acerbic-attack-on-centre-over-new-it-rules-101622022996503.html
26-05-2021||India||Tamil Nadu govt to move resolution in assembly against farm laws||Tamil Nadu chief minister MK Stalin on Wednesday said his government will bring a resolution in the state assembly asking the Centre to withdraw the three farm laws, which were passed in September and triggered protests. He made the announcement reiterating ruling Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam’s (DMK) stand on the issue on the day when farmer unions are observing a “black day” to mark six months of their agitation against the legislation.State assemblies in states such as Congress-ruled Punjab, Rajasthan, and Chhattisgarh have passed similar resolutions.Also Read | Covid-19 variant first detected in India found in at least 53 territories: WHOThe resolution was among the poll promises of DMK, which returned to power this month. In a statement, Stalin called it a matter of concern that six months have passed since the laws were passed but the Centre has not tried to have a “constructive dialogue” with the farmers to resolve the issue nor taken any steps to revoke the legislation.Tamil Nadu’s previous government of All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam, an ally of the Bharatiya Janata Party, supported the legislation.The DMK-led Secular Progressive Alliance held a day-long hunger strike in Chennai in December in support of the agitating farmers in Delhi and led several protests. Trade unions and farmer unions also protested in the state.The protests against the legislation have not been as widespread in Tamil Nadu as in other parts of the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-govt-to-move-resolution-in-assembly-against-farm-laws-101622022313231.html
26-05-2021||India||As Covid cases drop, Gujarat relaxes night curfew in 36 cities||Gujarat on Wednesday relaxed the night curfew in place by an hour in 36 cities but did not change the restrictions which have been clamped during the day as the western state recorded a significant drop in the new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Chief Minister Vijay Rupani made the announcement about the revised curfew timings after a cabinet meeting in Gandhinagar.Rupani said restrictions on the movement of people during the night will be in place 9pm to 6am in these 36 cities from Friday. The chief minister said a notification in this regard will be issued on Thursday. "Coronavirus cases are decreasing in Gujarat. From nearly 14,600 new cases, the highest daily peak registered on April 30, about 3200 cases are currently emerging every day. Hence, we have decided to relax the night curfew. The curfew will now be from 9pm to 6am," Rupani said, according to news agency PTI.Also read | Gujarat facility to make 200 million additional doses of CovaxinThe chief minister also said the state government is alert about the possibility of a third wave of the coronavirus pandemic and a detailed action plan to deal with it will be announced soon. The night curfew is currently in place in 36 cities, including Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara and Rajkot.Also read | Covid curbs in Gujarat: Police raid coaching centre, find 555 students insideGujarat reported 3255 new cases of the coronavirus and 44 related fatalities on Tuesday, raising the infection tally to 794,912 and the death toll to 9665, official data showed. The state reported 14,605 new Covid-19 cases on April 30, the highest in the state so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-covid-cases-drop-gujarat-relaxes-night-curfew-in-36-cities-101622021246959.html
26-05-2021||India||BJP lawmaker seeks Tharoor’s removal as parliamentary panel head||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) lawmaker Nishikant Dubey has sought Shashi Tharoor’s removal as the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Information Technology chairperson for allegedly using the panel to further his political agenda. He made the demand in a letter to Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla over Tharoor’s comments about the issue of tagging tweets of BJP leaders related the Congress’s alleged “toolkit” to defame the government as “manipulated media”.Dubey, who is a member of the panel, accused Tharoor of “using the committee as an extension of the Congress”. He added Tharoor is more concerned about his party and Congress leader Rahul Gandhi’s agenda than the nation. “Recently, on the Twitter toolkit controversy, he is asking for explanations from the Ministry of Information and Technology [IT] when Twitter’s action is against this nation’s IT law,” Dubey said.In a series of tweets, Tharoor said the committee is already examining the subject “Safeguarding citizens’ rights & prevention of misuse of social/online media platforms”, which relates to this issue. “It is therefore well within the Cmt [committee]’s mandate to seek a clarification on this matter from the Ministry concerned.” He cited established practice and good form and added members with issues to raise relating to the work of a Parliamentary Committee are advised to communicate directly with the chairman and/or the Committee Secretariat, rather than ventilating their concerns in the media without discussion. He referred to Dubey’s allegations related to the manipulated media issue and clarified that given the Committee’s inability to meet in current circumstances, it communicates with ministries in writing as required.Also Read | WhatsApp moves Delhi high court against new guidelines“...On the subject of the Ministry of IT’s contacts with @Twitter on #ManipulatedMedia, the Committee Secretariat wrote to MEITY [Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology] by email on 4 & 25 May & received a detailed & comprehensive reply dated 26 May, which is being circulated to all Members for their information,” he tweeted. The Congress on Tuesday urged Twitter to tag as “manipulated media” posts by 11 Union ministers for “spreading false and malicious propaganda” related to the “toolkit”. Twitter last week flagged a post of BJP leader Sambit Patra as “manipulated media” after he shared details purportedly of Congress documents that were allegedly part of a “toolkit” made to defame Prime Minister Narendra Modi and build a biased narrative over Covid-19 management, and the Central Vista project..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-lawmaker-seeks-tharoor-s-removal-as-parliamentary-panel-head-101622021473468.html
26-05-2021||India||First lunar eclipse in over 2 years begins, will last for 5 hours||The Moon started to come under the earth's shadow on Wednesday as lunar eclipse, the first to take place in over two years, began. A few hours later, the Moon will be fully covered by the Eart, resulting in total lunar eclipse. While the total lunar eclipse will last for about 15 minutes, the entire event will go on for five hours.The last total lunar eclipse took place on January 21, 2019.The phenomenon is being called 'super blood moon'. The moon is at perigee, or the closest point to Earth in its orbit, making it appear about 7% larger than normal and 15% brighter, hence the term 'super'. Also, since it is passing through the Earth's shadow, the moon appears red, due to which the phenomenon has been termed "blood moon".Also Read: Total lunar eclipse, blood moon and supermoon coming together todayAdditionally, May's full moon is known as the "Flower Moon" since it occurs when spring flowers are in bloom. The result when taken together is a "Super Flower Blood Moon."What makes a "supermoon" different from other full Moons? Compare side-by-side and learn more here: https://t.co/cxZEdHDbao pic.twitter.com/CijIYz4h57The eclipse is visible in western North America, with people in Alaska and Hawaii getting the best views. Those living in southern Chile and Argentina can also see it. Skygazers in all of Australia and New Zealand and parts of Southeast Asia can see the eclipse on Wednesday evening.In India, a partial lunar eclipse will be visible in Agartala, Kolkata, Cherrapunji, Cooch Behar, Imphal, Itanagar, Guwahati, Malda, Kohima, Lumding, Puri, Silchar and Digha. The partial phase of the lunar eclipse will begin at 3.15pm and end at 6.23pm in India, while the total phase will begin at 4.39pm and end at 4.58pm (all times in IST).Lunar eclipse: Where to watch in IndiaDuring a lunar eclipse, the Earth comes in between the Sun and the Moon blocking the direct sunlight that could fall upon the Earth's natural satellite. This blockage of the sunlight casts the Earth's shadow on the surface of the Moon. Under a total lunar eclipse, the whole Moon comes under the umbral shadow of the Earth and the partial lunar eclipse occurs when only a part of the Moon comes under the umbral shadow of the Earth.Unlike a solar eclipse, there's no harm in looking at an eclipsed moon.The next lunar eclipse will be visible from India on November 19. It will be a partial lunar eclipse.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/first-lunar-eclipse-in-over-2-years-begins-will-last-for-5-hours-101622021150477.html
26-05-2021||India||Jharkhand not vaccine waster; Hemant Soren's office blames Co-Win glitch||The Union health ministry on Wednesday put out vaccination wastage data according to which Jharkhand is the top waster with 37.3 per cent wastage, followed by Chhattisgarh, Tamil Nadu, Jammu and Kashmir and Madhya Pradesh. The national average of wastage is 6.5 per cent while the states and Union territories are being repeatedly asked to keep wastage below 1 per cent. The states, however, dismissed the data and said the data is not properly updated.Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren's office said the latest data of the vaccination in the state could not be fully uploaded to Co-Win due to technical difficulties. According to CMO data, the wastage of vaccine in the state is around 4.65 per cent.Covid-19 vaccine wastage rate improves in Haryana, average now at 2% to 3%, says state governmentThe Govt of Jharkhand is fully focused on utilising it’s available vaccine doses in the most prudent manner possible ensuring minimal wastage. We hope to minimise it further with more focused vaccination awareness campaigns in deep forested & other rural areas of the state ."The Govt of Jharkhand is fully focused on utilising its available vaccine doses in the most prudent manner possible ensuring minimal wastage. We hope to minimise it further with more focused vaccination awareness campaigns in deep forested & other rural areas of the state," Hemant Soren's office tweeted.Out of 48.63 lakh vaccine doses supplied to all district of Jharkhand, 42.07 lakh doses have already been utilised and the state has around 6.56 lakh doses available now.Chhattisgarh too has objected to the data and said that the state already wrote to the ministry informing that there were some data issues.Prime Minister Narendra Modi recently stressed the need to minimising vaccine wastage as even the wastage of one dose means one will be deprived of the shot. "Wasting even a single dose means not being able to give a shield to a life. It is important to stop vaccine wastage. Health Ministry is providing information to the states regarding vaccines for 15 days. Vaccine supply will help you in managing vaccination timelines," PM Modi recently said.The health ministry had accommodated for 10 per cent vaccine wastage when the drive began in January 2021. But now as the drive is expanding, the aim is to minimise wastage.One of the reasons for vaccine wastage, as pointed out earlier, was vaccine hesitancy when people register for vaccination but do not eventually turn up. If a vial is opened but not enough people turn up, it may lead to vaccine wastage as the vaccines are to be used within a fixed time after the opening of the vial. Apart from this, vaccine wastage can take place during transportation or if the vials are not stored at the proper temperature required.Kerala has claimed zero vaccine wastage as it managed to administer more doses than what it received from the Centre by adding the remnant of each dose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jharkhand-not-vaccine-waster-hemant-soren-s-office-blames-co-win-glitch-101622020561232.html
26-05-2021||India||Centre supplies nearly 30,000 additional vials of mucormycosis drug to states||The Centre on Wednesday allocated additional vials of Amphotericin-B drug, used in treatment of mucormycosis, to states and Union territories across the country. Union minister Sadananda Gowda said on Twitter that 29,250 vials of the drug have been given to the states."The allocation has been made based on the number of patients under treatment which is 11,717 across the country," Gowda said in his tweet.Additional 29,250 vials of #Amphotericin- B drug, used in treatment of #Mucormycosis, have been allocated to all the States/UTs today.The allocation has been made based on the number of patients under treatment which is 11,717 across the country.#blackfungus#AmphotericinB pic.twitter.com/j0LyR6GLjHAccording to the break-up provided by Gowda, the highest number of vials (7210) have been given to Gujarat followed by Maharashtra (6980) - the two states which have the most number of mucormycosis cases.Also Read: Maharashtra to get 60k vials of black fungus medicineEarlier, additional 19,420 vials of the drug were allocated on May 24 and 23,680 vials were supplied across the country on May 21, the government said in a release.The demand for the Amphotericin B Liposome injection has significantly increased amid the second wave of Covid-19.Minister of state for chemical and fertilizers Mansukh Mandaviya had said on Tuesday that the government is putting in all efforts to ramp up the production of Amphotericin-B in the country as well as importing seven lakh vials of the drug through Indian companies to fulfill the requirements for the high demand of the medicine."I think 15 to 16 lakh vials of Amphotericin- B injections are likely to be available in the month of June in the country," Mandaviya told news agency ANI.Also Read: Gap between demand, supply of drug to treat black fungus too high, says HCMucormycosis is a very rare infection which is caused by exposure to mucor mould which is commonly found in soil, plants, manure, and decaying fruits and vegetables. It affects the sinuses, the brain and the lungs and can be life-threatening in diabetic or severely immuno-compromised individuals such as cancer patients or people with HIV/AIDS.The doctors in the country have said there is an alarming rise in the number of mucormycosis cases among patients with Covid-19 and those who have recently recovered from the disease. They believe that mucormycosis may be triggered by the use of steroids, a life-saving treatment for severe and critically ill Covid-19 patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-supplies-nearly-30-000-additional-vials-of-mucormycosis-drug-to-states-101622018828882.html
26-05-2021||India||Indonesia’s acting envoy to India succumbs to Covid-19||Indonesia’s chargé d’affaires in New Delhi, Ferdy Piay, who was airlifted home after contracting Covid-19, died in Jakarta on Tuesday night, people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity. Piay is the second senior member of the diplomatic community in New Delhi to die amid a devastating second wave of Coronavirus infections sweeping across the country. Col Moses Beatus Mlula, defence advisor at the high commission of Tanzania, died at a military hospital in New Delhi on April 28. Indonesia’s former envoy to India, Sidharto Suryodipuro, tweeted late on Tuesday: “With sadness but also with profound gratitude of our many memories working together that I bid farewell to a good friend and wonderful colleague, Ferdy Piay, Chargé d’Affaires of @KBRI_NewDelhi. May he now rest in peace. Om Shanti.” Piay contracted Covid-19 in Delhi last month and was initially treated in the Indian capital. He was airlifted to Jakarta on April 27 after his condition deteriorated, the people cited above said. Also Read | Delhi reports fewest Covid deaths since mid-AprilIndonesia’s BeritaSatu news channel had reported on May 19 that Piay was being treated at a hospital after being infected with Covid-19. It quoted Indonesia’s consul general in Mumbai, Agus Prihatin Saptono, as saying that Piay was under treatment. There was no official word from the Indian side on the developments. Piay was a career diplomat who served as director for South and Central Asia and director general for Asia Pacific and Africa at Indonesia’s foreign ministry. He was among the group of diplomats that toured the facilities of Indian vaccine manufacturers in Hyderabad last December. BeritaSatu channel also cited data from Indonesia’s foreign ministry to report that 130 Indonesian citizens had contracted Covid-19 in India, and 117 recovered while 10 were in a stable condition. Three Indonesians had died, the report said. The total number of Indonesian citizens in India was 798, the report added. The people cited above said there were reports of Indian staff and junior diplomats testing positive at several foreign missions, including those of the Philippines, New Zealand, Germany, Thailand, Vietnam, Palestine, the US, Afghanistan and Saudi Arabia. Several missions have airlifted sick diplomats home for treatment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indonesias-acting-envoy-to-india-succumbs-to-covid19-101622018954411.html
26-05-2021||India||Congress toolkit row shifts to Chhattisgarh with Baghel-Raman Singh war of words||A war of words broke out on Tuesday between Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel and former chief minister Raman Singh while the political slugfest between the Congress and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) over an alleged toolkit escalated.The latest round between the two parties on the issue started with CM Bhupesh Baghel pointing out that Twitter on Tuesday marked senior BJP leader Raman Singh’s tweet on the alleged Congress toolkit as “manipulated” media- a tag used by the microblogging site to describe posts that have been altered to distort facts.It all began last week, when Twitter tagged BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra’s tweet, which had an image-- purportedly showing an official Congress party document carrying a detailed strategy on how to criticise the government and the PM in public-- as “manipulated” media after several fact-checking websites highlighted design and typographical anomalies, suggesting it was doctored.Patra’s tweet was, however, re-tweeted by several BJP leaders and ministers who claimed it exposed the Congress bid to defame PM Narendra Modi and promote a biased narrative over Covid-19 management and the Central Vista project. Central Congress leaders later urged Twitter to also mark 11 such tweets by BJP ministers as manipulative media citing the microblogging site’s policy to deal with such content. “Twitter tagged the alleged toolkit shared by Dr Raman Singh... as manipulated media. Truth never fears. The [Rashtriya Swayamsevak] Sangh’s lessons of repeating a lie a thousand times and it becomes the truth won’t work anymore,” Baghel tweeted.Raman Singh, in his reply, asked Baghel to explain why Twitter officials were refusing to join a probe by the Delhi Police into the toolkit tweet if they had the evidence of it being manipulated. Delhi Police had asked Twitter officials in India to share the evidence of the tweet being manipulated. Delhi Police said it launched the probe on the basis of complaints by two Congress leaders- Rajeev Gowda, who heads the party’s research department, and Rohan Gupta, the party’s social media head. They were also asked to join the investigations but refused. “After getting notice, all the concerned twitter officials are not traceable. Can Rahul Gandhi and Bhupesh Baghel tell [us] about them,” Singh tweeted in Hindi. A chapter of the political war over the toolkit is also being played out in Chhattisgarh since the state police launched a parallel probe into the controversy following a complaint by Congress students’ union wing or the NSUI. The FIR against Raman Singh, Sambit Patra and others was filed on May 19 at the Civil Lines station in Raipur, alleging they were spreading fake news and “promoting enmity between classes” by tweeting about a “doctored” toolkit. On Monday, Chhattisgarh police recorded Raman Singh’s statement in the case. The original complainants in the case, Gowda and Gupta, have also indicated that they will join the probe by the Chhattisgarh Police.Following the developments Raman Singh alleged that the Chhattisgarh Police were being dictated by the Congress party and not the law.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-toolkit-row-shifts-to-chhattisgarh-with-baghel-raman-singh-war-of-words-101622018953178.html
26-05-2021||India||Air India staff unions seek probe into provident fund trusts||Air India Joint Actions Forum of Unions, representing 10,000 staff members, has approached civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri seeking a forensic probe into the alleged mishandling of two provident trust funds that have incurred losses to the tune of ₹1,085 crore.The forum’s May 25 letter reads, “It has come as a shock to all of us Unions, many of whom were not involved or aware of the day to day functioning of the Provident Fund trusts of Indian Airlines and Air India that huge losses have been incurred by both the trusts, due to questionable investments in companies like ILFS and Dewan Housing, among others, which collapsed.”Also Read | Look after pilots who have lost lives due to Covid: Air India pilotsThe issue came up as the airline, which is set to be privatised, asked its employees to transfer their savings from the two trusts to the Employees Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO). The employees allege this will result in losses for them because of bad investments made with the trust money without their knowledge.Requesting a meeting with Puri, the forum has asked the ministry to cover these losses and subsidise the transition of the Air India / Indian Airlines provident trusts to the EPFO, without any loss to them. “We have only learnt of the magnitude of these losses allegedly incurred through some questionable investments, by means of a MOCA letter no 17046/73/2019- AI dated 16/04/21, which is in public domain, wherein the figure of losses mentioned is ₹1,085 crore,” the letter reads.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ai-staff-unions-seek-probe-into-provident-fund-trusts-101622018353358.html
26-05-2021||India||Cyclone Yaas makes landfall: Measures to stay safe||Cyclone Yaas crossed the southern coast of Balasore in Odisha around 10.30am on Wednesday as 1.4 million people were evacuated and moved to storm shelters from low-lying areas of West Bengal and Odisha. Thousands of people from neighbouring Jharkhand’s East Singhbhum and West Singhbhum districts were also moved to safer places as the cyclone made landfall on Wednesday morning.Click here for live updates on Cyclone YaasIndia's west coast, which geared up for the cyclone's landfall days after it was battered by Cyclone Tauktae, is going to see more such intense cyclonic disturbances going forward due to the climate crisis, according to experts.All focus of the authorities is on minimising the loss of property and life during the cyclone. “Zero casualty is the motto. We are leaving no stone unturned for saving lives,” Odisha’s special relief commissioner Pradip Jena said.Here are some measures you can take at home in order to stay safe during cyclonic storms:Steer clear of flooded roads: Avoid driving in flooded areas as vehicles can be swept away or may stall in moving water. If you have come in contact with floodwater, wash your hands with soap and clean water.Electronic devices: Keep your phones, power banks etc fully charged but do not use a wet electrical device. Turn off the power from the main switch in your house if devices are still plugged in.Keep a stock of essentials: Make sure you have essential supplies like food grains and medicines stocked for a few days. If you use an electric water purifier, make sure you have drinking water stored to keep you doing for some days. Keep candles and matchsticks and other light sources near you and if the power is out, preferably use flashlights. If you are using candles, stay near them and keep a fire extinguisher handy.Be watchful if your building is old/damaged: Exit your home or building if you hear shifting or unusual noises as this could mean the building is about to fall. Also, be careful around fallen power lines. Call the power company concerned to report damaged power lines as they could pose a serious threat of electrocution.Clean up your home properly: Wear waterproof boots, hats, goggles and masks when you clean your home after a cyclone or a hurricane. Disinfect everything and keep a fire extinguisher nearby.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-yaas-makes-landfall-measures-to-stay-safe-101622013587521.html
26-05-2021||India||Pfizer can supply 5 crore vaccines to India in 2021 but conditions apply||US pharma company Pfizer has refused to send vaccines to Delhi and Punjab but it has hinted that it can supply five crore vaccine doses to India in 2021 if the Centre agrees to its terms and conditions, news agency PTI has reported.According to the report, Pfizer can supply one crore vaccine doses in July, one in August, two crore in September and another one crore in October. But it will deal only with the government of India and the payment has to be made by GOI.Pfizer, sources told to PTI, has also asked for indemnification from the Centre like it has with around 116 countries in the world, including the United States. Reuters reported that the US drugmaker wants legal protection from any claims linked to the use of its vaccine. Another report says Pfizer wants relaxations in the 'requirement of post-approval bridging trials and dispensing the requirement of testing their vaccines in Central Drugs Laboratory".Moderna shot likely next year; Pfizer to offer 50 million jabsFor the approval of any foreign-made vaccine, local trials in India are required, like Dr Reddy's Laboratory's conducted for Sputnik V, the only foreign vaccine approved in India. It is not yet known whether the government will agree to these clauses as other companies may raise similar demands.As Pfizer refused to supply to individual states, the ministry said it has been coordinating with both Pfizer and Moderna. "Whether it is Pfizer or Moderna, at the Centre-level, we have been coordinating with them. The order book of both Pfizer and Moderna is full so it depends on their surplus that how much they can provide in India... they will come back to the Centre and we will help in facilitation to states," health ministry joint secretary Lav Agarwal said.Pfizer has defended that 14.7 crore doses of vaccines have already been administered worldwide without any "significant reports of adverse effects". The expert group of vaccination will take a final call on allowing Pfizer, reports said.Maha says eight global vax bids in; are deals possible?Regarding Pfizer's vaccine, the Centre was initially doubtful as it required to be stored at minus 70 degree celsius. But recently, the company said that its vaccine can be stored at minus 25 degree, and it can also be stored for five days at a temperature between two degree and eight degree celsius.Meawnhile, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corportion commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal on Tuesday claimed that the civic body has received a bid from Pfizer in response to BMC's vaccine procument tender, which the US pharma giant has refured. "Neither Pfizer Inc nor any of its affiliates globally, including in India, have authorized anyone to import/market/distribute the Pfizer-BioNTech COVID 19 vaccine. We continue to have ongoing discussions with the Government of India towards making our vaccine available for use nationally," an official told news agency ANI.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pfizer-can-supply-5-crore-vaccines-to-india-in-2021-but-conditions-apply-101622016114477.html
26-05-2021||India||Pandemic brought tragedy to doorstep: PM Modi at global Vesak celebrations||The Covid-19 pandemic is a once in a lifetime crisis that brought tragedy to the doorstep of many but also resulted in mankind demonstrating its tenacity through the development of vaccines within a year, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Wednesday. Delivering a keynote address during virtual global Vesak celebrations on the occasion of Buddha Purnima, Modi said nations around the world were witnessing a “mix of continuity and change” a year after the Covid-19 outbreak. “The Covid-19 pandemic has not left us. Several nations, including India, have experienced a second wave. This is the worst crisis humanity faces in decades. We have not seen a pandemic like this for a century,” he said. “This once in a lifetime pandemic has brought tragedy and suffering at the doorstep of many. The pandemic has impacted every nation. The economic impact is huge as well. Our planet will not be the same after Covid-19.” Modi added, “To those who have suffered and lost their near and dear ones, I would like to extend condolences. I grieve with them.” The prime minister lauded the efforts of first responders, frontline healthcare workers, doctors, nurses and volunteers who “selflessly risked their lives every day to serve others in need”, and scientists who worked to develop Covid-19 vaccines. Also Read | BJP cadre to cover 100k villages to mark PM Modi govt’s 7th yr at Centre“But over the last year, there have been many noteworthy changes as well. We now have a better understanding of the pandemic, which strengthens our strategy to fight it. Most importantly, we have the vaccine, which is absolutely important to save lives and defeat the pandemic,” he said. “The emergence of a vaccine in a year of the pandemic striking shows the power of human determination and tenacity. India is proud of our scientists who have worked on the Covid-19 vaccines.” Vesak, a festival that celebrates the Buddha’s birth, enlightenment and death, is an occasion to celebrate the life of the Buddha and also reflect on his ideals and sacrifices for the betterment of the planet, Modi noted. Just as the Buddha devoted his life to removing human suffering, individuals and organisations rose to the occasion over the past year and worked to reduce human suffering amid the pandemic, he said. Contributions of equipment and materials were made by Buddhist organisations and followers of the religion around the world, and these actions were in line with the Buddha’s teachings of “blessings, compassion and welfare of all”. Amid the fight against Covid-19, people must not lose sight of other challenges such as climate change since the reckless lifestyles of the current generation are threatening future generations, Modi said. He referred to the Buddha’s emphasis on a way of life whereby respect for nature is paramount, and said India is among the few large economies that are on track to achieve their Paris Accord targets. Noting that the life of the Buddha was dedicated to peace and co-existence, Modi said there are forces whose existence depends solely on spreading hate, terrorism and mindless violence. Such forces don’t believe in liberal democratic principles and those who believe in humanity should come together to defeat terror and radicalisation, he added. Quoting from Mahatma Gandhi, Modi said, “Buddha taught us to defy appearances and trust in the final triumph of truth and love.” He urged everyone to renew their commitment to the ideals of the Buddha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pandemic-brought-tragedy-to-doorstep-pm-modi-at-global-vesak-celebrations-101622015653205.html
26-05-2021||India||'Criminal act': Ramdev gets ₹1,000 cr defamation notice from IMA Uttarakhand||Yoga guru Ramdev has been served a defamation notice by the Indian Medical Association’s (IMA’s) Uttarakhand division for his recent statements questioning the efficacy of allopathy medicines. According to news agency ANI, IMA said if Ramdev does not post a video countering his statements and tender a written apology within 15 days then ₹1,000 crore will be demanded from him. The six-page notice describes the remarks by Ramdev as damaging to the reputation and the image of allopathy and around 2000 practitioners, who are part of the association, PTI reported. It has said the remarks of the yoga guru was a "criminal act" under section of 499 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).Also read | ‘Ramdev was reading WhatsApp forward’: Patanjali on ‘allopathy is stupid’ video"I am ready for face-to-face with Baba Ramdev. Ramdev does not have a lot of knowledge about allopathy, despite that he is against allopathy and the doctors associated with it. He is making rhetorical statements," IMA’s Uttarakhand unit president Dr Ajay Khanna was quoted as saying by the news agency. Khanna added that Ramdev's rhetoric has reduced the morale of doctors working day and night in the fight against the coronavirus pandemic. “Ramdev is constantly lying to sell his medicines."The yoga guru came under fire from IMA and several doctors, who demanded his prosecution over his statements questioning the efficacy of allopathy medicines. Ramdev was seen reading out from his phone in the 140-second long video, which was shared widely on social media. “Allopathy is a stupid science. Firstly, hydroxychloroquine failed, the remdesivir failed… Plasma therapy effectiveness is now banned, the steroids have failed. Even Fabiflu and Ivermectin have also failed,” he said in Hindi.Also watch | 'Frontline health workers insulted': Why doctors want Ramdev bookedIMA on Saturday sent a legal notice to the yoga guru over his alleged statements against allopathy and "defaming" scientific medicine. His Patanjali Yogpeeth Trust, however, denied allegations by the top medical body. Ramdev was reading out a WhatsApp forwarded message in the video that has gone viral on social media, according to the statement by the Haridwar-based trust.Also read | 'When allopathy doctors call Ayurveda pseudo-science': Ramdev to Harsh VardhanRamdev withdrew his statement on Sunday after receiving a strongly-worded letter from Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan. "We do not oppose modern medical science and allopathy. We believe that allopathy has shown immense progress in surgery and the lifesaving system and served humanity. My statement has been quoted as part of a WhatsApp message that I was reading during a meeting of volunteers. I am sorry if it has hurt anyone's sentiment," Ramdev said in his letter to the Union health minister in Hindi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/criminal-act-ramdev-gets-rs-1-000-cr-defamation-notice-from-ima-uttarakhand-101622014713092.html
26-05-2021||India||Subodh Kumar Jaiswal takes charge as CBI director||Subodh Kumar Jaiswal, the former director general of police (DGP) of Maharashtra, on Wednesday took charge as the director of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). Jaiswal will have a fixed tenure of two years in the central probe agency or until further orders. Jaiswal’s appointment came after a high-powered committee led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and comprising chief justice of India (CJI) NV Ramana and Congress Lok Sabha floor leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury appointed the 1985-batch Maharashtra cadre Indian Police Force (IPS) officer to the post on Tuesday.During the meeting, Chowdhury had objected to the process of selection of officers for the coveted post, but later agreed to the three names. "The way the procedure was followed, it was in conflict with the mandate of the committee. On 11th (May), I was given 109 names and today (Monday) by 1pm, 10 names were shortlisted and by 4pm, six names were shortlisted. This casual approach of DoPT (department of personnel and training) is highly objectionable," Chowdhury told PTI.The appointment is significant as the Supreme Court is hearing a petition filed by an NGO—Common Cause—on the delay in the appointment of a regular CBI chief.The IPS officer was posted as director general of the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF). In his earlier deputation, Jaiswal served with the Special Protection Group (SPG), which secures the Prime Minister and with the Research and Analysis Wing (R&AW), the country’s external intelligence agency.The post of CBI director was lying vacant since February when Rishi Kumar Shukla completed his tenure. Additional director Praveen Sinha was looking after the affairs of the premier investigation agency as interim chief since then.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/subodh-kumar-jaiswal-takes-charge-as-cbi-director-101622014336935.html
26-05-2021||India||Political developments in Nepal its internal matters, says India||India on Wednesday described recent developments in Nepal, including Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli’s decision to dissolve parliament and turmoil within the ruling party, as “internal matters” to be tackled within the neighbouring country’s democratic processes. Nepal plunged into fresh political turmoil last week following Oli’s move to recommend the dissolution of the House of Representatives amid a worsening Covid-19 outbreak. President Bidya Devi Bhandari fixed general elections for November but the country has been rocked by political protests. “We have taken note of the recent political developments in Nepal. We view these as internal matters of Nepal to be dealt by them under their own domestic framework and democratic processes,” external affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said. “As a neighbour and friend, India remains unwavering in its support for Nepal and its people on their journey toward progress, peace, stability and development,” he said. Also Read | In Nepal’s political theatre, Delhi risks eroding strategic gains by backing OliIndia-Nepal relations have witnessed major ups and downs since Oli, 69, came to power in 2018 at the head of an alliance of leftist parties. His efforts to move Nepal closer to China while retaining ties with India didn’t go down well in New Delhi and bilateral ties were hit by a border row last year. Nepal was irked when India opened a strategic road to Lipulekh on the border with China – a region claimed by Kathmandu. It responded by issuing a new political map that showed the areas of Lipulekh, Kalapani and Limpiyadhura, all within India, as Nepalese territories. Back-to-back visits to Nepal by the Research and Analysis Wing and Indian Army chiefs and foreign secretary Harsh Shringla helped put ties back on an even keel, and foreign minister Pradeep Gyawali travelled to New Delhi late last year to co-chair a meeting of the bilateral joint commission with external affairs minister S Jaishankar. Political parties have described Oli’s move to dissolve parliament as unconstitutional and nearly 150 members of the dissolved House approached Nepal’s Supreme Court on Monday to demand its reinstatement. Madhav Kumar Nepal, a member of Oli’s CPN-UML party, and 22 other leaders of the party have endorsed the petition in the Supreme Court, setting the stage for a split in the CPN-UML. Oli has expelled Nepal and 10 more leaders from the party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/political-developments-in-nepal-its-internal-matters-says-india-101622012534105.html
26-05-2021||India||PM Narendra Modi lauds selfless service by Corona warriors on Buddh Purnima||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday lauded the followers of Buddhism for contributing generously in the fight against Covid-19 pandemic, while saluting the frontline healthcare workers for their “selfless” service during the current crisis engendered by the pandemic.“I once again salute our frontline healthcare workers, doctors, nurses who selflessly risk their lives every day to serve others in need, to those who have suffered and lost their dear ones. I extend condolences,” the PM said.PM Modi made the remarks during his keynote speech, delivered virtually, at the prayer session held by the International Buddhist Confederation in New Delhi on the occasion of Vesak festival, also known as Baisakh Purnima, to commemorate Lord Buddha’s birth, enlightenment, and nirvana. The celebratory events were being held online to contain the threat posed by Covid-19.PM Narendra Modi said that Buddha’s life was about peace, harmony and coexistence and it teaches us to unite against forces spreading hate and mindless violence.“Today, there’re still forces whose existence depends on spreading hate, terror and mindless violence. Such forces don’t believe in liberal democratic principles. Believers of humanity must come together, defeat terror,” he said during his virtual address to mark global celebrations on Buddha Purnima.He added that several individuals and organizations had risen to the occasion to do everything possible to reduce suffering during the worldwide health crisis engendered by the coronavirus disease and also thanked “generous contribution of equipment and materials made by the Buddist organizations and followers of Buddh dharma from the world over.”During his virtual address at the event in the middle of the first wave of the Covid-19 last year, the Prime Minister stressed on India’s commitment to serve humanity and highlighted the country’s supply of critical drugs and humanitarian aid to several countries to help fight the pandemic.On Wednesday, he urged the world not to lose sight of other big challenges like climate change while continuing the fight against Covid-19.“...one of the biggest challenges is that of climate change. The reckless lifestyle of the present threatens the coming generations,” he said.PM Modi noted that weather patterns are changing, glaciers are melting, rivers and forests are in danger.“We cannot let our plants remain wounded. Lord Buddha put emphasis on a way of life where respect for Mother Nature is paramount,” PM Modi said and underlined that India is among the few large economies to be on track to completing the targets of the Paris accord.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-narendra-modi-lauds-selfless-service-by-corona-warriors-on-buddh-purnima-101622012292501.html
26-05-2021||India||WhatsApp moves court against government of India. Here’s what it said||WhatsApp has filed a complaint with the Delhi high court against the new guidelines of the government under which digital media companies will have to disclose the identity of the "first originator of information" when asked for it. The Facebook-owned messaging platform with nearly 400 million users in India cited the right to privacy and asked the Delhi High Court to declare that one of the new rules is a violation of privacy rights in India's constitution, according to Reuters.Bloomberg reported that WhatsApp filed the lawsuit in the Delhi High Court on Tuesday evening, citing a spokesperson, and that the case is likely to be considered as early as Wednesday.Also read | WhatsApp sues govt over new digital media rules; cites 2017 SC privacy verdictHere is what WhatsApp said:1. According to Reuters, under the new rules WhatsApp will have to name only people credibly accused of wrongdoing but the company says it cannot do that alone in practice. WhatsApp says to comply with the law it would have break encryption for receivers, as well as "originators", of messages because they are end-to-end encrypted, Reuters added.2. “Requiring messaging apps to ‘trace’ chats is the equivalent of asking us to keep a fingerprint of every single message sent on WhatsApp, which would break end-to-end encryption and fundamentally undermines people’s right to privacy,” the company said in a statement on Wednesday.Also read | Facebook, Twitter, YouTube to face action? Here's what the firms say3. “We have consistently joined civil society and experts around the world in opposing requirements that would violate the privacy of our users. In the meantime, we will also continue to engage with the Government of India on practical solutions aimed at keeping people safe, including responding to valid legal requests for the information available to us,” it added.Also read | Facebook, WhatsApp, Twitter ban from May 26? All you need to know4. Whatsapp will continue to engage with the government “on practical solutions aimed at keeping people safe, including responding to valid legal requests for information,” it added in the statement.Also Read| WhatsApp’s refusal to comply with new rules a clear act of defiance: Centre5. Reuters reported WhatsApp in its complaint cited a 2017 Supreme Court ruling supporting privacy in a case known as Puttaswamy. The top court found then that privacy must be preserved except in cases where legality, necessity and proportionality all weighed against it. WhatsApp argues, Reuters reported, that the law fails all three of those tests, starting with the lack of explicit parliamentary backing.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/whatsapp-moves-court-against-government-of-india-here-s-what-it-said-101622011177936.html
26-05-2021||India||Covid surge: Lancet Citizens’ panel’s 8 recommendations for Centre, state govts||The Lancet Citizens’ Commission has recommended establishing central systems to procure and distribute Coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccines free of cost instead of the current policy of decentralised procurement through state governments. This is among the eight-point recommendations proposed by the commission in response to the alarming resurgence of Covid-19 in India.The commission comprises 21 experts and the recommendations were published in an article in the British medical journal, The Lancet, on Wednesday. “In response to the alarming resurgence of Covid-19 in India, authors drawn from the Commission and its network of fellows have proposed eight urgent recommendations in an article in The Lancet. These recommendations are focused on the immediate steps central and state governments must take to help curtail the loss of life and suffering caused by Covid-19 amid the recent surge in cases,” said the Commission in a press statement. Also Read | Covid spreads mainly through ‘airborne route’, says Centre’s revised protocolThe Lancet Citizens’ Commission on Reimagining India’s Health System was launched in December 2020 with the aim of laying out a road map to achieve universal health coverage in India over the next decade.Among other measures suggested by the members of the commission to manage the situation in India are: the organisation and financing of essential health services be decentralised to districts; a transparent national pricing policy and caps on the prices of all essential health services; and evidence-based information on the management of Covid-19 be widely disseminated, including guidance on what not to do.It also suggests that all available human resources, including the private sector, must be marshalled for the Covid-19 response and adequately resourced and supported; community engagement and public participation must lie at the heart of India’s Covid-19 response, with no restrictions on civil society organisations to access resources; transparency and sharing of government data to enable districts to proactively prepare for the likely caseloads in the coming weeks, and surveillance to include urgent investment in genomic sequencing;Finally, the team also recommended that the profound suffering and risk to health caused by loss of livelihoods should be minimised by making provisions for cash transfers by the state to workers in India’s vast informal economy who have lost their jobs and requiring businesses not to lay off their workers.The commission bases its work on a participatory and consultative process with citizens and prominent stakeholders from across India’s health system. The article synthesises and amplifies the suggestions already being made by grassroot workers and experts across the country.“The humanitarian crisis the resurgence has precipitated requires all persons in central and state governments to set aside their political differences and work in solidarity with each other, and with civil society, to implement the eight clearly articulated recommendations in our article,” said Vikram Patel, one of the commission members, in statement.Patel is the Pershing Square Professor of Global Health, Harvard Medical School; Professor, Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health, Cambridge, USA; and Co-founder, Sangath, Goa, India.Another member, Poonam Muttreja, executive director, New Delhi’s Population Foundation of India, said, “Covid-19 is the most serious crisis independent India has faced as the virus pushes its way into rural areas where 65% of India lives. We need to enable our country’s innate resilience to kick in and hope that these eight steps will go a long way towards providing that support. All of us and our organisations look forward to partnering with the government and enabling our most vulnerable to survive this pandemic.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-surge-lancet-citizens-panel-s-8-recommendations-for-centre-state-govts-101622011633099.html
26-05-2021||India||Come together in fight against Covid-19: Dalai Lama||People must come together to overcome global threats, including Covid-19, Tibetan religious leader Dalai Lama has said.In his message for Buddhists on Buddha Purnima, the Nobel Peace Laureate said that by developing a sense of respect for others and a concern for their welfare, one could reduce their self-centredness, which is the source of many problems.“I started my Buddhist education as a child and although I am now nearly 86 years old, I am still learning. Even though our world has changed substantially since the time of Buddha, the essence of his teaching remains as relevant today as it was 2,600 years ago,” he said in a statement on Wednesday.“…Let us all join together in doing whatever we can to overcome the global threats we face, including the Covid-19 pandemic that has brought such pain and hardship across the world,” he added.He said Buddha's teaching was essentially practical not just for one group of people or one country but for all sentient beings.“People can follow this path according to their ability and inclination,” the spiritual leader said.He further encouraged Buddhists everywhere to discover what the teaching really means to be able to apply it in their life.“This entails listening and reading, thinking about what you have heard and read and making yourself deeply familiar with it."He stressed that Buddha's advice was to avoid harming others and to help them always in whatever way possible.“We can begin to do this by recognising that everyone else is just like us in that...they want happiness and dislike suffering. Seeking joy and freedom from suffering is the birth-right of all beings. But personal happiness very much depends on how we relate to others,” the Dalai Lama said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/come-together-in-fight-against-covid-19-dalai-lama-101622011010445.html
26-05-2021||India||Cyclone Yaas pounds Odisha-Bengal coasts, may move to Jharkhand by midnight||Cyclone Yaas pounded the beach towns in north Odisha and neighbouring West Bengal as it hit the coast around 9 am on Wednesday with a wind speed of 130-140 kmph, inundating the low-lying areas amid a storm surge, officials said.The location of the landfall was north of Dhamra in Odisha's Bhadrak district and 50 km south of Balasore, close to Bahanaga block, on the coast, they said.The wind speed during landfall was at 130-140 kmph, gusting to 155 kmph, as per Doppler radar data."The landfall process is likely to be over by 1 pm. The maximum impact will be in Balasore and Bhadrak districts," Odisha's Special Relief Commissioner PK Jena said.The sea will remain rough till Thursday and the accompanying rain will continue, he said.The wind will slow down by the evening and the cyclone is likely to leave Odisha for Jharkhand by midnight, Jena said.Odisha has shifted 5.8 lakh people to safer places, while West Bengal has moved 15 lakh people ahead of the cyclone.There was no report of any major damage in Odisha though some incidents of trees getting uprooted have taken place, Jena said.West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee said most parts of the state were affected by the cyclone and the rain it brought along.She urged the people of the state, particularly those in Purba Medinipur, South 24 Parganas, North 24 Parganas, Paschim Medinipur, Howrah, Hooghly, Purulia and Naida, to stay indoors."Almost the whole of West Bengal has been flooded. Several embankments have been damaged and seawater entered areas like Sagar and Gosaba in South 24 Parganas, as well as coastal areas like Digha, Shankarpur and Mandarmani in East Midnapore. Low lying areas have been extensively damaged," the chief minister said.Banerjee, who monitored the situation from the secretariat the entire night, said that the spring tide has added to the woes.Efforts are being made to evacuate more people from the coastal areas of Digha, she said.Digha in East Midnapore sharees border with Odisha's Balasore district.Banerjee said that 70 km of embankments have been damaged in East Midnapore, while in South 24 Parganas, 15 embankments had met a similar fate.Reports of damage caused due to flooding by river water were received from areas like Joynagar, Basanti, Kultuli, Namkhana in the South 24 Parganas district, she added.The chief minister said that though there has been no report of any disruption in Kolkata, all flyovers have been shut as a precautionary measure."We will keep on monitoring the situation as it may continue for four to six hours after hitting the land," she said.The West Bengal government has opened a centralised control room at the state secretariat and several small control rooms in the coastal areas.The maximum wind speed in Digha reached around 90 km per hour. It was 68 kmph at Fraserganj in South 24 Parganas, and in Kolkata, the highest wind speed was recorded at 62 kmph.In the 24 hours till 8.30 am, Digha received 5.5 cm rainfall, Diamond Harbour got 3.3 cm rainfall, Haldia 3.2 cm rainfall.Kolkata got 2.24 cm rainfall, Salt Lake received 3.05 cm rains, Contai got 5.42 cm rains and Kalaikunda received 2.2 cm rainfall.Banerjee said the NDRF, SDRF and at least 2 lakh policemen are working in tandem to tackle Yaas. The Army has also been kept on stand-by and would be deployed, if needed.Most parts of Odisha also received rains, said Umashankar Dash, a scientist at the Regional Meteorological Centre in Bhubaneswar.Chandbali in Bhadrak district received 27.3 cm rainfall, the highest amount of rainfall in the last 24 hours in the state, followed by Paradip (19.7 cm), Balasore (5.1 cm) Bhubaneswar (4.9 cm).The IMD has forecast massive storm surge for some places like Mohanpur in Bhadrak where the seawater may ingress 9 km into the land.Dash said that surge of 1.5-3.8 metre is likely in the area when the wind speed hits a peak during landfall. The reason behind such a high storm surge is also partially due to full-moon activity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-yaas-pounds-odisha-bengal-coasts-may-move-to-jharkhand-by-midnight-101622011027300.html
26-05-2021||India||Covid spreads mainly through 'airborne route', says Centre's revised protocol||The Union health ministry, in its latest clinical management protocol for Covid-19, has said the majority of the transmission is believed to occur "predominantly through the airborne route and droplet released when the infected person coughs, sneezes or talks". This marks a change from last year's clinical management protocol, published in June 202, in which the ministry said that the infection spreads through close contact, "mainly through respiratory droplets that are released when the infected person coughs, sneezes and talks."A guideline recently issued by the office of the principal scientific adviser to the government has also mentioned that infected aerosols can be carried in the air up to 10 meters.Aerosols from Covid-19 infected person can travel in air upto 10 metres: Govt"Current evidence suggests that the virus spreads mainly between people who are in close contact with each other, typically within 1 metre (short-range). A person can be infected when aerosols or droplets containing the virus are inhaled or come directly into contact with the eyes, nose, or mouth. The virus can also spread in poorly ventilated and/or crowded indoor settings, where people tend to spend longer periods of time in physical proximity. This is because aerosols remain suspended in the air or may travel farther than 1 metre (long-range)," the revised protocol said, attributing the findings to the World Health Organization.Here are some other changes incorporated in the latest protocol:Ivermectin: For patients with mild cases, tablet Ivermectin (200 mcg/kg once a day, to be taken empty stomach) has been recommended for 3 to 5 days (avoid in pregnant and lactating women). This was not included in the last year's protocol.Steroids: The new protocol mentions that systemic oral steroids not indicated in mild disease. If symptoms persist beyond 7 days (persistent fever, worsening cough etc.) consult the treating doctor for treatment with low dose oral steroids.Plasma therapy dropped: As announced earlier, the ministry has dropped convalescent plasma therapy from its list of investigational therapies, which was there in the earlier protocol.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-spreads-mainly-through-airborne-route-says-centre-s-revised-protocol-101622010170431.html
26-05-2021||India||Not proved beyond reasonable doubt: Goa court while acquitting Tejpal||The fast-track court, which on Friday acquitted former Tehelka magazine editor Tarun Tejpal of rape and sexual assault, said the prosecution failed to prove the case beyond reasonable doubt while pulling up the Goa Police for trying to suppress crucial pieces of evidence. It cited facts on record and said they create a doubt on the truthfulness of the prosecutrix. “There is also no medical evidence on record on account of delay in lodging of the FIR [First Information Report] and as the prosecutrix had refused to go for medical examination,” said judge Kshama Joshi in her judgment, copies of the which were made available to the parties on Tuesday. “The allegations made by the prosecutrix cannot be said to have been proved beyond [a] reasonable doubt.”The court referred to evidence on record and added the benefit of the doubt was given to the accused because there is no corroborative evidence supporting the allegations. “In this case, the prosecution has failed to discharge the burden proving the guilt of the accused beyond a reasonable doubt.”Also Read | Goa’s Mandovi river was cleaner during lockdown months, study confirmsMuch of the prosecution’s case focussed on the CCTV footage of the corridors of the hotel, where a former colleague of Tejpal accused him of sexually assaulting him in an elevator during a conference in 2013. There were no CCTV cameras inside the elevators. The prosecution relied on the footage from the corridors. The court found the prosecution preserved footage of the hotel’s ground and second floors while that of the first floor was missing.Tejpal’s lawyers accused the investigation officer (IO) in the case of carrying out an unfair investigation to implicate him. “All the evidence documents/that conclude and prove the innocence of the accused have been intentionally suppressed and any line of questioning that can contradict, challenge or prove as outright false the prosecutrix’s version has simply not been conducted so that it is ensured that any such circumstances and evidence in favour of the accused do not see the light of the court,” the defence told the court.“The IO has, in some cases such as the CCTV footage of the first floor Block 7 of... [the hotel], entirely destroyed evidence, knowing that it is necessary for the investigating officer to gather all the evidence through investigation.”The court also took issue with the complainant and the IO being the same person. “[The IO] has admitted that she didn’t move any proposal before her superiors that she being the complainant, the investigation should be handed over to some other officer and claimed that her superiors directed her to investigate the offence. Despite the availability of another Lady Police Inspector of the Crime Branch, the Investigating Officer and her superiors malafidely retained the investigation with the IO who was also the complainant,” the court said.The Goa Police took cognisance of the case on its own when an email Tejpal wrote on the matter became public. Tejpal referred to an “unfortunate incident” between himself and the colleague in the leaked e-mail to Tehelka’s management in 2013. He described the incident “bad lapse of judgment” in the e-mail. But in another note later, he said that he was being “framed”.The Goa government on Tuesday said it will move the high court against the fast-track court’s verdict on Thursday.The case hit the headlines for weeks amid a renewed focus on crimes against women. It surfaced a year after the rape and murder of a 23-year-old student on a moving bus in Delhi provoked national outrage and prompted the government to pass tougher laws to check such crimes. The allegations against Tejpal also triggered a debate on harassment of women at workplaces and underreporting of such cases over fears of job losses and persecution.Tejpal faced the trial under India Penal Code’s Sections 376 (rape), 354 A (sexual harassment), 354 B (criminal assault with intent to disrobe a woman), 341 (wrongful restraint), and 342 (wrongful confinement).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-proved-beyond-reasonable-doubt-goa-court-while-acquitting-tejpal-101622010073183.html
26-05-2021||India||India has administered over 200mn Covid vaccine doses till now||India achieved a significant milestone on Tuesday by administering over 200million coronavirus vaccine doses since the nationwide campaign began in January. In what could boost the drive further, US pharma giant Moderna was expected to launch its single-dose vaccine in India by 2022 even as Pfizer was ready to offer 50 million shots this year itself.Meanwhile, by Tuesday 8pm, 200,494,991 vaccine doses had been given in India. This includes 9,794,835 healthcare workers who have had their first dose and 6,728,443 who have got their second dose as well. As many as 15,162,077 frontline workers have had their first dose while 8,377,270 have got their second dose too.In the 45-59-year age group, 62,047,952 people have got their first dose and another 10,024,157 have had their second dose as well. In the 60+ category, 57,119,900 people have been administered their first dose while 18,365,811 have had their second dose as well.Also Read | Bharat Biotech expects WHO nod by September. What does it mean for Indians?In the newly added category of 18-45 year age group, 942,796 beneficiaries received their first dose of Covid vaccine on Tuesday and cumulatively, 12,874,546 of this age group have been vaccinated across 37 states and Union Territories.As many as 1,877,419 vaccine doses were given by the evening. Of this, 1,690,691 beneficiaries were vaccinated with the first dose and 186,728 beneficiaries received their second dose as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-has-administered-over-200mn-covid-vaccine-doses-till-now-101622009652870.html
26-05-2021||India||Kashmir students say they are underprepared amid talk of holding CBSE exams||Baiza Bashir, a student at a Central Board for Secondary Education (CBSE) affiliated school in Kashmir, was promoted to Class 12 in 2020 amid the Covid-19 pandemic that forced schools globally to switch to online classes. But many like her were left to fend for themselves until high-speed 4G internet was finally restored in February in Jammu & Kashmir over a year after it was blocked in August 2019 when the region was stripped of its semi-autonomous status. “We could hardly attend online classes like the rest of Indian students,” said Bashir.Students like her say they remain unprepared for exams as most states on Tuesday told the Union education ministry that CBSE Class 12 examinations should be conducted. They say the education system in Jammu & Kashmir has been virtually defunct since August 2019 when a lockdown and communications blockade was imposed in the region to prevent protests against the nullification of the Constitution’s Article 370 that ended the region’s special semi-autonomous status.Most schools in the region are affiliated to Jammu & Kashmir State Board of School Education, which has conducted the Class 12th in the Kashmir Valley.Also Read | Goa police files appeal against Tarun Tejpal’s acquittal in High CourtJanifer Salati, another Class 12th class student due to appear for CBSE exams, recalled how cumbersome it was to download apps for online classes. “With 2G [slow speed internet] network, Zoom classes would buffer so much that hardly anything could be heard, leave alone taking notes....” She added there have been no such thing as mock tests or any other monthly evaluative exams. “We definitely did not take any exam on the CBSE pattern. Now if the CBSE is expecting us to outperform in this exam, it would be totally unfair.”Kamran Asif, a third student, said lockdowns in Kashmir also impacted their preparations for Class 11th exams and this has hurt particularly science stream students as they prepare for Class 12 tests. He added it matters what they learnt in Class 11. “...we hardly attended any classes of the 11th standard because the situation back then was very uncertain.” Asif added this has impacted their comprehension. He added they also fear no matter how sanitised the schools will be, they will have to take exams in closed spaces. “It is not possible to keep wearing masks for three hours together in a closed crowded [exam] hall.”Asif said they will ideally want the CBSE to come up with an alternative assessment system that does not require the physical appearance of students. “...delaying exams further is not an option. We have to apply for admissions to colleges...”Rafiq Ahmad Sofi, a teacher at a CBSE affiliated school, said the promotion of students on the basis of remote or internal assessment will put the students at a disadvantage when they apply for admissions abroad. “The foreign universities will obviously give preference to the students who have scored better grades by taking written exams rather than those who have not even appeared in them,” said Sofi. “The assessment based on internal and practical exams conducted in schools should be the last resort... only the offline exams would be in the best interest of the students.”Additional secretary (education) Naseer Wani refused to comment. Rajeev Rai Bhatnagar, the advisor to Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha on education, was unavailable for comments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kashmir-students-say-they-are-underprepared-amid-talk-of-holding-cbse-exams-101622008813003.html
26-05-2021||India||Cyclone Yaas: 5 airports shut, 38 passenger trains cancelled||Airports in Kolkata and Durgapur in West Bengal and Odisha’s Bhubaneswar, Jharsuguda and Rourkela will remain shut for commercial flights as the powerful Cyclone Yass begun landfall between Dhamra and Balasore, Airports Authority of India (AAI) said on Wednesday. "The closure will be reviewed as per the weather. Airports directed to carry restoration to restart operations ASAP,” AAI said in a series of tweets.The authority said that Bhubaneswar's Biju Patnaik International Airport will be closed from 11pm on Tuesday till 5am on Thursday, Jharsuguda airport from 12.01am on Wednesday till 7.45am on Thursday. Durgapur and Rourkela airports will also be closed on Wednesday. Flight operations in Kolkata will be suspended from 8.30am to 7.45pm on Wednesday.WATCH| Cyclone Yaas makes landfall; heavy rain & gusty winds hit OdishaMeanwhile, more than 30 passenger trains were cancelled till May 29, the Indian Railways said on Tuesday. "38 long-distance South-bound and Kolkata-bound passenger trains will remain cancelled from May 24 to 29...The Railways authority will refund the ticket charges of the passengers," the North East Frontier Railway said in a statement.The landfall process of Cyclone Yaas begun near Dhamra port in Odisha at 9.15am, even as strong winds and heavy tides saw seawater ingress in many coastal towns and villages in Odisha and West Bengal.Odisha's special relief commissioner PK Jena told reporters that the landfall process has begun and will take three to four hours to complete. He said the maximum impact will be in Balasore and Bhadrak districts, adding the location of landfall is north of Dhamra and south of Bahanaga close to Bahanaga block on the coast.Jena said the landfall of Cyclone Yaas has been delayed for some hours with the velocity of the system decreasing to 12kmph from 15 to 16kmph. He said the cyclone has not intensified further after 2am.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-yaas-5-airports-shut-38-passenger-trains-cancelled-101622005685203.html
26-05-2021||India||Cyclone Yaas triggers heavy rains in Kerala||Heavy rains pounded many areas of south and north Kerala on Wednesday under the influence of cyclone Yaas while three fishermen who had ventured into the sea from Vizinjam in Thiruvananthapuram were missing after strong winds destroyed their vessel. Seven fishermen of the damaged boat managed to swim across and they were hospitalised. Coast guard and marine police have started search for the missing. Click here for Cyclone Yaas LIVE UpdatesAccording to the regional meteorological centre in Thiruvananthapuram, some areas in north Kerala received 10cm rain in the last 24 hours and the state capital recorded 9cm rainfall. Yellow alert has been sounded in at least nine districts of the state. Gushing winds uprooted many trees, destroyed houses in several parts of the state and costal hamlets bore the maximum brunt as strong tides devoured many areas. Met office said conditions are favourable for the onset of the south-west monsoon in the state, the first stopover of the yearly quota of downpour. It is likely to lash the state on May 31 with three variable days of difference. The IMD said the monsoon advanced towards Maldivian islands on Tuesday and clouds have started their journey towards the Indian subcontinent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-yaas-triggers-heavy-rains-in-kerala-101622007433403.html
26-05-2021||India||Newly elected BPF MLA succumbs to post-Covid19 complications in Assam||Newly-elected Bodoland Peoples’ Party (BPF) legislator Majendra Narzary, 68, died on Wednesday while undergoing treatment for Covid-19 complications at the Guwahati Medical College Hospital. Narzary tested negative for Covid-19 a few days back but remained on ventilator. He had co-morbidities like diabetes and hypertension and reportedly suffered a brain-stroke on Wednesday morning. Also Read | Covid-19 vaccine absolutely important to defeat pandemic: PM Modi“Extremely saddened at the sudden demise of our ‘mahajot’ (grand alliance) partner MLA [member of legislative assembly] of BPF, Majendra Narzary. My heartfelt condolences to the family and friends of late Narzary. May his soul rest in eternal peace,” state Congress president Ripun Bora tweeted. A former headmaster of a high school, Narzary represented the Gossaigaon seat four times since 2006. He was one of the four BPF lawmakers in the 126-member state assembly and was part of the opposition.Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma expressed condolences on Narzary’s death. “Assam lost a sincere politician. I pray for eternal peace of his soul and offer condolences to his family,” he said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/newly-elected-bpf-mla-succumbs-to-post-covid19-complications-in-assam-101622006592782.html
26-05-2021||India||Bharat Biotech expects WHO nod by September. What does it mean for Indians?||Bharat Biotech, the maker of India's first indigenous vaccine Covaxin, has applied to the World Health Organization for emergency use listing of its vaccine. The company has said the approvals are expected anytime between July and September. The vaccine has already received emergency use authorised in 13 countries, which include Mexico, the Philippines, Iran, Paraguay, Guatemala, Nicaragua, Guyana, Venezuela, Botswana, and Zimbabwe.Why is WHO's emergency use listing significant?WHO assesses the quality, safety and efficacy of Covid-19 vaccines before including a vaccine on its emergency use list. Only then the vaccine can be considered part of WHO's COVAX facility. Covishield, the other vaccine of India, has already been listed.Will WHO listing be considered as a vaccine passport?As the pandemic is raging in many parts of the world, including India, the international travel ban remains in effect. When the countries begin to reopen, they might insist on a vaccine passport, which is nothing but the certification of vaccination. As WHO's authorisation attests to a product's safety and efficacy, country's may only allow people vaccinated by one of the jabs listed by WHO.Does this mean people vaccinated with Covaxin won't be allowed to travel?No country has yet mandated a vaccine passport yet for international travel. Countries which haven't banned Indian flights in the wake of the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic will allow travellers who have tested negative in RT-PCR tests. It's not yet known whether countries which have barred Indian travellers will allow only vaccinated travellers.Lav Agarwal, joint secretary of the union health ministry recently said there has been no consensus on vaccine passport at the WHO level, though a discussion is on. "So far, there's no consensus at the level of WHO over this. Discussion is still being done if vaccinated people will be allowed. As of now, as per WHO guidelines and guidelines by countries, people with negative Covid test report are being allowed. Relevant action will be taken when a consensus at the world level is reached," Agarwal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bharat-biotech-expects-who-nod-by-september-what-does-it-mean-for-indians-101622005134071.html
26-05-2021||India||Covid-19 vaccine absolutely important to defeat pandemic: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Wednesday that the planet will not be the same after COVID-19 and noted that the events in future will be remembered as either pre or post-Covid.Delivering the keynote address on the occasion of "Virtual Vesak Global Celebrations" on Buddha Purnima, he said the world has not seen a pandemic like this in a century.However, he added, there is now a better understanding of the pandemic, and described vaccine as absolutely important to save lives and defeat the virus.He also extended condolences to those who have suffered and lost near and dear ones in the pandemic, and said he grieved with them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-vaccine-absolutely-important-to-defeat-pandemic-pm-modi-101622005482350.html
26-05-2021||India||WhatsApp moves Delhi high court against new guidelines||WhatsApp on Tuesday moved the Delhi high court against the new rules announced in February for digital media companies, saying the requirement for them to adopt features such as traceability for identifying originators of messages violated the right to privacy under the Indian law and the company’s end-to-end encryption policy. It said the company does not believe traceability can be imposed in a way that cannot be spoofed or modified, leading to new ways for people to be framed for things they did not say or do.WhatsApp moved the court on the day the deadline for social media companies to put in place new mechanisms to comply with the rules ended. At least one company, Facebook, has said it was working on the new rules but that “a few of the issues need more engagement with the government”.The rules pertain to new guidelines notified under the Information Technology Act on February 25. They gave digital media companies three months to implement new content moderation mechanisms, appoint new officers who will be liable for compliance, and adopt features such as traceability of messages.The company said it is committed to doing all it can to protect the privacy of people’s personal messages and that is why it is opposing traceability. “Requiring messaging apps to ‘trace’ chats is the equivalent of asking us to keep a fingerprint of every single message sent on WhatsApp, which would break end-to-end encryption and fundamentally undermines people’s right to privacy,” a WhatsApp spokesperson said. “We have consistently joined civil society and experts around the world in opposing requirements that would violate the privacy of our users.” The company said it will also continue to engage with the government of India on practical solutions aimed at keeping people safe, including responding to valid legal requests for the information available to WhatsApp.In a blog, WhatsApp said some governments were seeking to force technology companies to find out who sent a particular message on private messaging services. It cited technology and privacy experts and said they have determined that traceability breaks end-to-end encryption and would severely undermine the privacy of billions of people who communicate digitally. “Reasonable and proportionate regulations for an increasingly digital world are important, but eroding privacy for everyone, violating human rights, and putting innocent people at risk is not the solution.”WhatsApp has opposed moves that violate its end-to-end encryption. A similar case of the company is pending in the Supreme Court of Brazil.HT reached out to the ministry of electronics and information technology for comments but did not receive a response immediately.An official on Tuesday said the rules had been notified and no further discussions on those were happening. On Monday, officials warned of stern action if the companies did not adhere to the deadline. They added none of the companies have informed the government of the compliance or shared details of the officers they were meant to have appointed on their websites.Also Watch | Could India ban Facebook, Twitter, WhatsApp, Instagram? New rules explainedThe new policy also includes bringing digital news publishers under the ambit of Section 69(A) of the Information Technology (IT) Act. The provision empowers the government to order the blocking of access to content that is considered a threat to public order.An officer, who will head an inter-ministerial committee at the apex of the three-tier self-regulatory system, can also issue this order under emergency circumstances where the companies will not be given a chance for explanation. The committee will have to meet within 48 hours to ratify the emergency block.The news media publishers and over the top (or streaming) such as Netflix and Hotstar, will fall under the ambit of the ministry of information and broadcasting. Also Read| WhatsApp’s refusal to comply with new rules a clear act of defiance: CentreThe rules also mandate increased due diligence by social media companies and data sharing with enforcement agencies.Under part four of the guidelines, the intermediaries are required to appoint compliance officers, “responsible for ensuring compliance with the Act and rules” and be “liable in any proceedings relating to any relevant third-party information, data or communication link made available or hosted by that intermediary where he fails to ensure that such intermediary observes due diligence while discharging its duties under the Act”.Intermediaries are also required to appoint nodal contact persons for 24x7 coordination with law enforcement agencies and resident grievance officers.Koo, the Indian social media app, has announced it had complied with the new requirements and appointed a resident grievance officer, chief compliance officer, and nodal contact officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/whatsapp-moves-delhi-high-court-against-new-guidelines-101622004852954.html
26-05-2021||India||President Biden expected to name Eric Garcetti as ambassador to India||US President Joe Biden is expected to nominate Los Angeles mayor Eric Garcetti as the ambassador to India by next week as part of the process of naming several political appointees as envoys to key countries, according to a media report on Wednesday. Garcetti was described as a “trusted political ally” of Biden in the report by Axios, which cited people familiar with the matter. The ambassadorial nominations, which are expected as early as next week, are seen as rewards for political allies and major donors, the report said. Biden has called some applicants to “offer them the country where he wants them to serve”, the report added. “Those one-on-one calls speak to the premium Biden places on personal relationships in his diplomatic worldview. They’re also a reminder that ambassadors are directly answerable to the president,” Axios reported. Also Read | Floyd family meets Biden a year after death, push for law“The White House is still finishing the vetting process for potential ambassadors, including Garcetti, whose office called an Axios report earlier this month that he was being considered for an ambassadorship ‘speculative’,” the report said. Once the vetting process is complete, Biden is expected to send more than a dozen names to the US Senate to begin the confirmation process for his first batch of political ambassadors. Garcetti served as co-chair of Biden’s presidential campaign and was initially considered for the cabinet. His chances reportedly diminished after a sexual harassment lawsuit against one of his former aides, Rick Jacobs, got national attention. A Garcetti spokesperson and the White House declined to comment to Axios. Biden began reviewing names of potential ambassadors in March and officials are “putting a premium on diversity in assembling the first batch” of names to be sent to the Senate. According to Axios, other names being considered for ambassadorial positions are career diplomat Nick Burns for China, former deputy secretary of state Tom Nides for Israel, former Chicago mayor and White House chief of staff Rahm Emanuel for Japan, international lawyer Mark Gittenstein for US envoy to the European Union, and Cindy McCain, widow of John McCain, for ambassador to the World Food Program in Rome. Last month, the Biden administration appointed former deputy secretary of state Daniel Smith as the chargé d’affaires in New Delhi to spearhead close cooperation between the two countries, especially for the Covid-19 response.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/president-biden-expected-to-name-eric-garcetti-as-ambassador-to-india-101622004432704.html
26-05-2021||India||Assam extends Corona curfew till June 5; offices in urban areas to stay closed||Assam on Tuesday extended the curfew to contain the spread of Covid-19 till June 5 and added some new restrictions for rural areas while government and private offices in urban areas continue to remain shut.“Though it is observed that the containment measures taken so far have been effective over the last few days, adequate measures for both urban and rural areas are still of utmost necessity in order to further contain Covid-19 across the state,” said an order issued by chief secretary Jishnu Baruah.As per the new order, all shops and business establishments in rural areas will shut down at 1 pm on all days and people’s movement will be banned from 2 pm to 5 am. All restaurants and eateries will be allowed home delivery of food after 1pm, while those housed in resorts and hotels will be allowed to operate dine-in for in-house guests as per their usual timings.Among other exceptions, cold storages and warehouses in rural areas will be allowed to remain open after 1 pm. But sale counters, showrooms etc. attached to these warehouses or cold storages shall not operate after 1 pm.In urban areas, all offices, both government and non-government, will remain closed and shops, markets and business establishments will have to down shutters at 11 am on all days.There will be a ban on movement of vehicles and persons in urban areas between 12 pm and 5 am on all days. Vehicles will be allowed on roads during the designated hours following an odd-even formula. However, this restriction shall not apply for private vehicles used for medical emergencies, the order states.Essential and emergency services and their employees too have been exempted from the restrictions.Educational institutions will remain closed, but have been asked to provide quality options for online classes.Marriages, religious functions and funeral/last rites will have to be conducted with a maximum presence of 10 persons. All religious places will be closed for 15 days, but their religious heads will be allowed to continue conducting minimal rituals.All public transport will operate but only with 30% capacity. Auto-rickshaws, taxis and e-rickshaws can operate with one driver and two passengers. Pillion riding will be prohibited in two-wheelers with exceptions for women and children.The existing ban on inter-district movement of vehicles and persons will also remain in place till June 5.While the Covid-19 test positivity rate (TPR) in Assam has gone down to around 5% in the past few days, the state has still been recording 5,500-6,000 new cases and around 80 deaths daily. On Tuesday, the state recorded 5,767 new cases and 92 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-extends-corona-curfew-till-june-5-offices-in-urban-areas-to-stay-closed-101622003713698.html
26-05-2021||India||Cyclone Yaas makes landfall; heavy rains in Odisha||Very severe cyclonic storm Yaas started battering the northern coastline of Odisha with powerful winds and rains on Wednesday morning as it made landfall at Bahanaga block around 9am with sustained wind speed of 130 to 140 kmph gusting up to 155 kmph.The director of regional meterological centre, HR Biswas, said the landfall process will continue for the next 3-4 hours with a sustained wind speed of 130 to 140 kmph gusting up to 155 kmph along and off Bhadrak and Balasore districts. Similarly, the wind speed is likely to remain 100-110 kmph gusting to 120 kmph along and off Kendrapara district. It will decrease gradually after the landfall, becoming 65-75 kmph gusting to 85 kmph by evening. After landfall, the system is very likely to move northwestwards across interior districts of Odisha and weaken gradually.WATCH| Cyclone Yaas makes landfall; heavy rain & gusty winds hit Odisha﻿﻿Under the impact of the cyclone, very heavy rains were reported from Chandbali in Bhadrak and Paradip in Jagatsinghpur districts. In the last 24 hours, Chandbali reported 27.3cm of rainfall followed by 19.7cm at Paradip. Due to the tidal surge, sea water entered villages in Talsara region of Jaleswar block of Balasore district.Click here for Cyclone Yaas LIVE Updates The first report of cyclone-related casualty came from Keonjhar district when an elderly man was crushed to death after strong winds uprooted a tree at Panchapalli village under Anandapur block. In Balasore town, a 20-year-old man was seriously injured after a tree fell on him at Railway Colony. In Chandipur coast, sea water entered a hotel resort.Odisha special relief commissioner PK Jena said that ahead of the landfall, more than 500,000 people have been shifted to various cyclone and flood shelters across the coast.Jena said light to moderate rainfall at many places with heavy to very heavy rainfall and extremely heavy rainfall of more than 20 cm is likely at isolated places in Jagatsinghpur, Kendrapara, Jajpur, Bhadrak, Balasore, Mayurbhanj, Cuttack, Dhenkanal, and Keonjhargarh. Heavy rainfall is likely at isolated places in Puri, Khurda, Angul, Deogarh, and Sundergarh on Wednesday. Tidal waves of height 2-3 metres above astronomical tide are likely to inundate low lying areas of Balasore, Bhadrak and about 2 metres above the astronomical tide are likely to inundate low lying areas of Medinipur, South 24 Parganas, Kendrapara, & Jagatsinghpur districts around the time of the landfall.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-yaas-makes-landfall-heavy-rains-in-odisha-101622003535088.html
26-05-2021||India||No march to Delhi says leader, as farmers observe ‘Black Day' today||Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait said on Wednesday farmers observing a 'Black Day' to mark six months of the agitation against the three central agricultural laws will not march to Delhi. “We are also carrying the tricolour. It has been six months now but the government is not listening to us. So farmers are putting up black flags. It will be done peacefully,” Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait said, according to news agency ANI. “We are following Covid protocols. Nobody is coming here. People are putting up flags wherever they are,” he added.Also read | Shun indifference, hold talks with farmers: Sukhbir Badal to ModiSamkyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of protesting unions, announced that farmers will observe May 26 as 'Black Day' to mark the completion of six months. Twelve major opposition parties, including the Congress, Trinamool Congress, Left parties, Samajwadi Party, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and DMK, last week extended their support to the protest.The Morcha said in a statement on Tuesday that the farmer’s movement is “running on truth and non-violence and will be completing six months of its historical struggle on Wednesday". "SKM requests all Indians to celebrate and mark Buddha Poornima tomorrow, so that truth and non-violence find a strong place back in our community, at a time when attempts are being made to erode these basic values in our society," it said in the statement.Also read | Ready to resume talks with Centre over farm laws: BKU leader Rakesh TikaitOn Tuesday, Tikait will burn the effigy of the government and said farmers will not march towards the national capital. "Nobody is coming towards Delhi. Whoever wishes to protest will use a black flag and put it outside their home or on their vehicle," Tikait told ANI.Tikait said the farmers have been protesting for the past six months but the government has "not taken back its black laws". He said they have written to the Centre about their concerns. "If the government can bring in laws during the pandemic, it can surely revoke them also. We are not going anywhere, we will stay here. We have a lot of time," Tikait added.Also read | At UP Gate, Covid takes a toll on protesters strengthThe Delhi Police have urged people not to hold gatherings amid the coronavirus pandemic and the ongoing lockdown and said it is keeping a tight vigil to deal with any situation at the protest sites on the city's borders. Delhi Police’s spokesperson Chinmoy Biswal said action will be taken against those who try to take the law into their hands, adding that the force is already present at all borders points, including the protest sites of Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur, and will not allow any illegal activity or entry.Also watch | Ahead of farmers’ 'black day' protest, Delhi Police warns against gatherings"We urge people not to gather as the virus could spread and the cases escalate. We appeal to the citizens to observe COVID- appropriate behaviour and lockdown which is still imposed in the city. There is no permission of gathering and demonstration due to the ongoing situation," Biswal said.Also read | Sonia Gandhi slams Centre for ‘anti-people’ activities, exploiting farmersHundreds of farmers are currently at five sites near Delhi’s borders: Singhu, Ghaziabad, Tikri, Dhansa and Shahjahanpur (on the Rajasthan-Haryana border). Farmers’ unions, especially from Haryana and Punjab, are demanding the rollback of the three laws passed in September last year to lift restrictions on trade of farm produce to allow more private investments. Farmers say these changes will leave them at the mercy of large corporations and supermarkets.The farmers have been protesting since November 26 last year against the farm laws passed by the Centre, including the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; the Farmers Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-march-to-delhi-says-leader-as-farmers-observe-black-day-today-101622002248405.html
26-05-2021||India||2.08 lakh new Covid-19 cases reported in 24 hours, declining trend maintained||India on Wednesday recorded 2.08 lakh fresh Covid-19 cases, maintaining the ongoing declining trend, though the 24-hour tally registers a slight increase from the number of cases reported on Tuesday. With this, the total tally reaches 2,71,57795, with a daily positivity rate of 9.42 per cent, the health ministry's bulletin showed. In the last 24 hours, over 22 lakh samples were tested for Covid-19, which is the highest single-day test. India’s daily recoveries continue to outnumber the daily new cases for the 13th consecutive day on Wednesday, as 2,95,955 recoveries were registered in the last 24 hours. With recoveries surpassing new cases, the number of India's active Covid-19 cases on Wednesday fell to 24,95591, a decline of 91,191 cases in 24 hours. Also Read | Covid-19: What you need to know today A total of 4,157 fatalities were recorded in the last 24 hours. On Tuesday, India's daily case dropped below two lakh after 40 days as 1,96,427 fresh infections were reported. On April 14, when the second wave of the pandemic was at its peak, the country crossed the landmark of 2 lakh cases. Since then, the number of daily cases has been on a steady increase and on April 30, the country became the first in the world to report over 4 lakh infections in 24 hours.From the second week of May, the daily rise started to dip and reached the lowest on Tuesday.Amid visible signs of the peak of the second wave receding, the Centre has asked states and Union territories to ramp up vaccination as the Centre has provided them with stocks till June 15. The need for containment measures in rural, peri-urban and tribal areas, areas which remained unaffected during the first wave but could not resist the second one, has also been stressed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/208-lakh-new-covid-19-cases-reported-in-24-hours-declining-trend-maintained-101621999989243.html
26-05-2021||India||Heavy rain, strong winds and storm surge hit Bengal as Cyclone Yaas makes landfall||Heavy rain, strong winds and storm surge have started battering the coastal districts of West Bengal since early morning on Wednesday as very severe cyclone Yaas made a landfall around 9am. The meteorological department’s regional office in Kolkata had earlier predicted the landfall around noon. Morning reports said sea and river water gushed into low lying areas, inundating many places along the coast, such as Digha and Shankharpur in East Midnapore district, which shares its border with Odisha. In the Sunderban delta, which comprises 102 islands, breaches in embankments were reported from some islands including Gosaba, allowing the saline river water to enter the villages. In some areas, river water entered the villages after its level shot up because of the storm surge and the tide. In Kolkata, strong winds gusting up to 60km per hour and rain were recorded since morning. The winds were expected to get stronger with the landfall of the cyclone. Click here for Cyclone Yaas LIVE UpdatesIMD officials had warned that as cyclone Yaas has coincided with the perigean spring tide, which occurs on full moon, coastal districts in the state could witness storm surge of 2m – 4m over and above the astronomical tide (spring tide). “The maximum damage would be caused by the storm surge this time. On May 26, when the cyclone hits, there is also the spring tide. Damage would be the maximum in the coastal districts of East Midnapore and South 24 Parganas,” Sanjib Banerjee, deputy director general of IMD’s regional office in Kolkata, had said on Tuesday. Till Tuesday evening, the state government had evacuated around 1.1 million people from vulnerable areas in the districts and shifted them to around 4,000 cyclone shelters and school buildings being used as relief centres. “The cyclone could affect around 20 districts while the three coastal districts of East Midnapore, North 24 Parganas and South 24 Parganas, along with Kolkata, would bear the main brunt,” chief minister Mamata Banerjee had told reporters on Tuesday late evening. The CM, along with some top bureaucrats and cabinet ministers, spend the night at the control room set up at the state secretariat. Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar also visited the control room in the evening. The state government has deployed a 300,000-people strong force, from bureaucrats to civic volunteers and home guards, for disaster management and relief work.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heavy-rain-strong-winds-and-storm-surge-hit-bengal-as-cyclone-yaas-makes-landfall-101622002032703.html
26-05-2021||India||WhatsApp sues Indian govt, says new media rules mean end to privacy||WhatsApp has filed a legal complaint in Delhi against the Indian government seeking to block regulations coming into force on Wednesday that experts say would compel the California-based Facebook unit to break privacy protections, sources said.The lawsuit, described to Reuters by people familiar with it, asks the Delhi High Court to declare that one of the new rules is a violation of privacy rights in India's constitution since it requires social media companies to identify the "first originator of information" when authorities demand it.While the law requires WhatsApp to unmask only people credibly accused of wrongdoing, the company says it cannot do that alone in practice. Because messages are end-to-end encrypted, to comply with the law WhatsApp says it would have break encryption for receivers, as well as "originators", of messages.Watch: WhatsApp sues govt over new digital media rules; cites 2017 SC privacy verdictAlso Read: Reuters could not independently confirm the complaint had been filed in court by WhatsApp, which has nearly 400 million users in India, nor when it might be reviewed by the court. The people with knowledge of the matter declined to be identified because of the sensitivity of the issue.A WhatsApp spokesman declined to comment.The lawsuit escalates a growing struggle between Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi's government and tech giants including Facebook, Google parent Alphabet and Twitter in one of their key global growth markets.Tensions grew after a police visit to Twitter's offices earlier this week. The micro-blogging service had labelled posts by a spokesman for the dominant party and others as containing "manipulated media", saying forged content was included.The government has also pressed the tech companies to remove not only what it has described as misinformation on the COVID-19 pandemic ravaging India, but also some criticism of the government's response to the crisis, which is claiming thousands of lives daily.The response of the companies to the new rules has been a subject of intense speculation since they were unveiled in February, 90 days before they were slated to go into effect.The Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code, promulgated by the ministry of information technology, designates "significant social media intermediaries" as standing to lose protection from lawsuits and criminal prosecution if they fail to adhere to the code.WhatsApp, its parent Facebook and tech rivals have all invested heavily in India. But company officials worry privately that increasingly heavy-handed regulation by the Modi government could jeopardize those prospects.Among the new rules are requirements that big social media firms appoint Indian citizens to key compliance roles, remove content within 36 hours of a legal order, and set up a mechanism to respond to complaints. They must also use automated processes to take down pornography.Facebook has said that it agrees with most of the provisions but is still looking to negotiate some aspects. Twitter, which has come under the most fire for failing to take down posts by government critics, declined to comment.Some in the industry are hoping for a delay in the introduction of the new rules while such objections are heard.The WhatsApp complaint cites a 2017 Indian Supreme Court ruling supporting privacy in a case known as Puttaswamy, the people familiar with it said.The court found then that privacy must be preserved except in cases where legality, necessity and proportionality all weighed against it. WhatsApp argues that the law fails all three of those tests, starting with the lack of explicit parliamentary backing.Experts have backed WhatsApp's arguments."The new traceability and filtering requirements may put an end to end-to-end encryption in India," Stanford Internet Observatory scholar Riana Pfefferkorn wrote in March.Other court challenges to the new rules are already pending in Delhi and elsewhere.In one, journalists argue that the extension of technology regulations to digital publishers, including the imposition of decency and taste standards, is unsupported by the underlying law.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/whatsapp-sues-indian-govt-says-new-media-rules-mean-end-to-privacy-sources-101621999526640.html
26-05-2021||India||Very severe Cyclone Yaas nears Odisha, West Bengal coasts: All you need to know||Very severe cyclonic storm Yaas, which is set to make landfall on Wednesday, has reached close to Odisha and West Bengal coasts, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD). It is centered about 40 km east of Odisha's Dhamra, 80 km south southeast of Balasore, and 80 km south-southwest Digha in West Bengal. The speed of the storm at 7.30am was 130 to 140 kmph.VERY SEVERE CYCLONIC STORM ‘YAAS’ CENTRED ABOUT 40 KM EAST OF DHAMRA AND 90 KM SOUTH-SOUTHEAST OF https://t.co/usAtM8ohaq CROSS NORTH ODISHA-WEST BENGAL COASTS TO THE NORTH OF DHAMRA AND SOUTH OF BALASORE NOON OF 26TH MAY AS A VSCS WITH WIND SPEED OF 130-140 KMPH. pic.twitter.com/UW0y8KfJRECyclone Yaas is likely to move north-northwestwards and cross north Odisha and West Bengal coasts to north of Dhamra and south of Balasore during noon on Wednesday.Here is all you need to know about Cyclone Yaas:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/very-severe-cyclone-yaas-nears-odisha-west-bengal-coasts-all-you-need-to-know-101621996602056.html
26-05-2021||India||Cyclone Yaas: 38 South-bound, Kolkata-bound passenger trains cancelled||In view of the impending cyclone Yaas, 38 long-distance South-bound and Kolkata-bound passenger trains were cancelled from May 24 to 29, informed Railways Public Relations Officer (PRO) on Tuesday."38 long-distance South-bound and Kolkata-bound passenger trains will remain cancelled from May 24 to 29...The Railways authority will refund the ticket charges of the passengers," as per the North East Frontier Railway's statement.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Tuesday predicted that the cyclone Yaas is going to intensity into a 'very severe cyclonic storm' in the next 12 hours."The severe cyclonic storm Yaas over the east-central Bay of Bengal moved north-northwestwards with a speed of about 9 kmph during past six hours. It is very likely to intensify further into a very severe cyclonic storm during the next 12 hours. It would continue to move north-northwestwards, intensify further and reach the northwest Bay of Bengal near North Odisha and West Bengal coasts by May 26 early morning," the weather agency said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-yaas-38-south-bound-kolkata-bound-passenger-trains-cancelled-101621999707244.html
26-05-2021||India||PM Narendra Modi to address international Buddhist event on Baisakh Purnima||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will give the keynote speech at the online prayer session held by the International Buddhist Confederation in Delhi on Wednesday May 26, when Buddhists around the world are celebrating Vesak (also known as Baisakh Purnima in India) to commemorate Buddha’s birth, enlightenment, and nirvana amid restrictions imposed to fight Covid-19 pandemic.The prayer session will be telecast on the Facebook page of the Mahabodhi temple, where Lord Buddha attained enlightenment at Bodh Gaya and from Lumbini, the birth site of Lord Buddha in Nepal and Candy in Sri Lanka.During his virtual address at the event in the middle of the first wave of the Covid-19 last year, the Prime Minister stressed on India’s commitment to serve humanity and highlighted the country’s supply of critical drugs and humanitarian aid to several countries to help fight the pandemic.The virtual programme will be attended by many believers, monks, scholars and experts, who will offer prayers, chant Buddhist Sutras and also discuss Buddhist philosophy.No visitors will be allowed at the Mahabodhi temple due to the ongoing lockdown to contain the number of Covid cases in Bihar. “But there will be prayers in the Mahayana and Thearavada traditions. It will be followed by the Kheer Daan and Chivar Daan,” Gajendra Kumar, an official of the Bodh Gaya Temple Management Committee (BTMC) said. The prayers will start at 8am and will be telecast live on the Facebook page of the BTMC. Anybody can participate in this online prayers session, he added.Live prayers and chanting of Buddhist Sutras have been planned at 101 sites across the world during the Vesak festival. The Sri Lanka Broadcasting Corporation has been airing the Ratana Sutta since last week with prayers to ease Covid-19 surge in India.In Bihar it will be held at Silao, a site believed to be connected to Mahakasyapa, an enlightened disciple of Buddha and also to Shilabhadra, another Buddhist scholar and vice chancellor of the ancient Nalanda University.Vesak is a special day to mark three key events in Buddha’s life, his birthday, the attainment of enlightenment and the achievement of Nirvana.The United Nations acknowledged it as the International Day of Vesak in 1999 and since then it’s celebrated internationally including at the UN offices and at UNESCO.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-narendra-modi-to-address-international-buddhist-event-on-vesak-101621999632982.html
26-05-2021||India||Maharashtra Covid tally drops; home isolation banned in 18 districts||Maharashtra on Tuesday recorded 24,136 new Covid-19 cases and 601 deaths. The total number of tests conducted on Tuesday was 264,275. The total number of people affected by Covid-19 in the state so far stands at 5,626,155.There are currently 314,368 active patients across the state. Pune tops the list with 45,648 cases, followed by Mumbai with 27,855. The death toll has now reached 90,349, with Mumbai leading with 14,650 deaths, followed by Pune with 11,747 deaths.Also Read | Maharashtra to get 60k vials of black fungus medicineMeanwhile, the state government has banned home isolation in 18 districts that have a high number of cases. All the Covid-19 cases-- both symptomatic as well as asymptomatic -- in Thane, Pune, Satara, Sindhudurg, Ratnagiri, Osmanabad, Beed, Raigad, Hingoli, Akola, Amravati, Kolhapur, Sangli, Gadchiroli, Wardha, Nashik, Ahmednagar, and Latur will have to be shifted to Covid care centres (CCC). State health minister Rajesh Tope, who addressed the media after the meeting with collectors and commissioners of these 18 districts, said monitoring home quarantine patients has become an issue. “There will be no more home isolations in these 18 districts where the positivity rate is higher than the state average. We have seen that proper treatment not been given to patients in home isolation. Hence, the patients will be shifted to CCCs. We are increasing the number of CCCs across the state, especially in smaller villages,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-covid-tally-drops-home-isolation-banned-in-18-districts-101621999332591.html
26-05-2021||India||Cyclone Yaas makes landfall over Odisha, West Bengal coasts||Very severe cyclonic storm, Yaas started making landfall over Odisha-West Bengal coasts at 9am, Wednesday. During landfall, its wind speed was 130 to 140 kmph gusting to 155 kmh, lower than earlier expected.“We are not seeing rapid intensification of this cyclone because its interaction with land has already started. The outer cloud bands of Yaas are over land. The system is close to Paradip also. Comparatively, Yaas had less time over Sea which has prevented intensification to an extremely severe or super cyclone,” Sunitha Devi, in charge, cyclones at IMD, had said on Tuesday.WATCH| Cyclone Yaas makes landfall; heavy rain & gusty winds hit Odisha﻿﻿The major impact of the cyclonic system is expected across the north-eastern coastal districts of India. Odisha is anticipated to bear the maximum brunt of wind and rainfall with some impact on West Bengal, primarily driven by surge and rainfall-induced floods, particularly in the coastal districts. Additionally, very rough to high seas, squally weather and gale winds around the system centre will affect shipping vessels and fishing operations, RMSI, a global disaster risk management company said in its bulletin on Yaas.Click here for Cyclone Yaas LIVE UpdatesWidespread impact is likely to be felt over north Odisha and West Bengal. There is likely to be total destruction of thatched houses; extensive damage to kutcha houses; some damage to pucca houses; potential threat from flying objects; bending or uprooting of power and communication poles; flooding of escape routes; disruption of railways, overhead power lines and signalling systems; widespread damage to standing crops, plantations, orchards, blowing down of mango trees; small boats may get detached from moorings and visibility may be severely affected, IMD has warned.There is a red warning for both Odisha and West Bengal coasts which implies that authorities should be prepared to minimise damage and disaster from the cyclone.After the landfall, the system is very likely to move northwestwards across interior districts of Odisha and weaken gradually. It is likely to maintain the intensity of a cyclonic storm till the early morning of May 27 or late on May 26 and thereafter, it will weaken gradually into a depression over Jharkhand.Tidal waves of height 2-4 metres above astronomical tide are likely to inundate low lying areas of Medinipur, Balasore, Bhadrak and about 2 metres above astronomical tide are likely to inundate low lying areas of South 24 Parganas, Kendrapara and Jagatsinghpur districts around the time of landfall.Sea condition is high to very high (wave height of 9-14 metres/wind speed of 38-63 knots) over westcentral and adjoining eastcentral Bay of Bengal. It is very likely to become very high to phenomenal (up to 14 metres high waves and wind speeds up to 64 knots) over northern parts of central Bay of Bengal, north Bay of Bengal and along and off north Andhra Pradesh-Odisha–West Bengal-Bangladesh coasts during Tuesday evening and Wednesday.Fishermen are advised not to venture into central Bay of Bengal till May 26 forenoon and into north Bay of Bengal and along and off north Andhra Pradesh-Odisha-West Bengal–Bangladesh coasts during May 25 to 26.Gale wind speed reaching 80-90 kmph gusting to 100 kmph would prevail over Puri, Cuttack, Khurda, Jajpur districts of Odisha and Jhargram, west Medinipur, North 24 Pargana districts of West Bengal during the same period. Squally wind speed reaching 60-80 kmph gusting to 90 kmph would prevail over Ganjam, Dhenkanal and Keonjhar districts of Odisha and Bankura, Purulia, Howrah, Hooghly, Nadia and Burdwan districts of West Bengal on Wednesday morning. Squally wind speed reaching 50-60 kmph gusting to 70 kmph will also prevail over Angul, Deogarh, Sundergarh districts of Odisha, Birbhum and Murshidabad districts of West Bengal and Srikakulam, Vijayanagaram and Vishakhapatnam districts of Andhra Pradesh during the same period.Squally wind speed reaching 40-50 kmph gusting 60 kmph is very likely to prevail over south Jharkhand from Wednesday forenoon and increase gradually becoming 90-120 kmph gusting to 130 kmph over southeast Jharkhand and 70-80 kmph gusting to 90 kmph over southwest Jharkhand during Wednesday evening.Also Read | Over 1 million evacuated, states brace for Yaas landfall todayOver north coastal Andhra Pradesh, light to moderate rainfall is likely at many places with heavy to very heavy falls at isolated places on Tuesday. Over Odisha, light to moderate rainfall at many places with heavy to very heavy rainfall with extremely heavy falls (over 20 cm) is likely at isolated places over Jagatsinghpur, Cuttack, Kendrapara, Jajpur, Bhadrak, Balasore, Mayurbhanj, Dhenkanal, Keonjhargarh. Heavy rain is likely over Puri, Khurda, Angul, Deogarh, Sundergarh on May 26 and heavy to very heavy with extremely heavy falls (over 20 cm) is likely at isolated places in north interior Odisha on May 27.Light to moderate rainfall is likely at most places over West Bengal with extremely heavy rainfall at isolated places over Medinipur and heavy to very heavy rainfall at isolated places over Jhargram, Purulia, Bankura, Bardhaman, Howrah, Hooghly, Kolkata, 24 Parganas, Bhirbhum and heavy falls at isolated places over Nadia, Murshidabad, Darjeeling districts on Wednesday; heavy rain at isolated places over Malda, Darjeeling, Dinajpur, Kalimpong, Jalpaiguri, Bankura, Purulia, Bardhaman, Bhirbhum and Murshidabad on Thursday. Heavy to very heavy rainfall and extremely heavy rain is likely over Jharkhand and Bihar on May 26, 27 and 28.Gale winds speed reaching 100-110 kmph gusting to 120 kmph is prevailing over major parts of central Bay of Bengal and would increase gradually becoming 125-135 gusting to 140 kmph from Tuesday evening. Squally wind speed reaching 50-60 kmph gusting 70 kmph is prevailing over North Bay of Bengal and along and off north Andhra Pradesh-Odisha–West Bengal–Bangladesh coasts.It would further increase becoming gale wind speed 155-165 kmph gusting to 185 kmph over northwest Bay of Bengal and along and off north Odisha and adjoining West Bengal coasts including Jagatsinghpur, Kendrapara, Bhadrak, from Wednesday early morning and will extend to Balasore districts of Odisha from Wednesday forenoon, 100-120 kmph gusting to 145 kmph over Mayurbhanj district of Odisha, east Medinipur and South 24 Parganas districts of West Bengal from Wednesday morning.Meanwhile, monsoon has further advanced into some parts of Maldives-Comorin area; some more parts of southwest and southeast Bay of Bengal on Tuesday. “Development of cyclone Yaas just before monsoon could support monsoon onset over Kerala. Monsoonal flow or winds are strengthened over the Arabian Sea. Monsoon is likely to make onset over Kerala around May 31, 1-2 days here or there,” Sunitha Devi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/very-severe-cyclone-yaas-close-to-north-odisha-west-bengal-coasts-101621997052559.html
26-05-2021||India||Kailash Vijayvargiya says Covid 2nd wave affected only India, explains why||BJP General Secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya has said it is a "matter of discussion" if the second wave of Covids-19 in India was an outbreak or China had a hand in it. A video of Vijayvargiya's speech at a function here went viral on Tuesday."There is a second wave of Covid-19. It was an outbreak, or was it sent? It is a matter of discussion because if any country in the world has challenged China, it is India....Prime Minister Narendra Modi has challenged (China)," the BJP leader is heard saying in the video.Breaking News..#Second wave of Covid-19 is allegedly spread in India by China- Kailash Vijayvargiya@KailashOnline@OfficeOfKNath@digvijaya_28 @jitupatwari @brajeshabpnews @scribe_prashant @MeghaSPrasad @Ahmedshabbir20 @ReporterRavish @ManojSharmaBpl @Anurag_Dwary pic.twitter.com/7l5LJK7tAh"We think this is a viral `war' by China to harass our country because the second wave of Covid-19 was reported only in India and not in neighbouring countries like Bangladesh, Pakistan, Sri Lanka, Bhutan and Afghanistan," he said, speaking in Hindi. It could not be ascertained if he said `war' or `vaar' which means `blow/attack' in Hindi. While the BJP leader could not be contacted for comment, some witnesses said he made these statements at an event organised by a trust to distribute oxygen concentrators on Monday. Opposition Congress said he should clarify what he wanted to say. "Does Vijayvargiya want to say that China has waged a biological war against India? He holds a responsible position in the BJP and he should make clear the intent behind his statement," state Congress spokesperson Neelabh Shukla said. The negligence of the BJP-led Union government was responsible for the second wave, he alleged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vijayvargiya-says-covid-2nd-wave-only-affected-india-explains-why-101621996277891.html
26-05-2021||India||Facebook, Twitter, YouTube to face action? Here's what the firms say||Amid speculations that social media platforms like Facebook and Twitter will be banned in India for their non-compliance to the Centre's new guidelines under the Information Technology Act, which was notified on February 25, the companies on Tuesday responded and said that they were working on implementing the new rules.Why speculations of ban from May 26?The new rules were notified on February 25 and the social media platforms were given three months' time to implement them, which ended on May 25. There has been no extension of this deadline. According to the guidelines, if the companies fail to comply with the rules, they would lose their intermediary status and may face action.What are the new rules?As these social media giants are not headquartered in India, they will have to appoint a chief compliance officer, nodal contact person and resident grievance officer.These platforms will have to remove any content flagged by the authorities within 36 hours.An officer based out in India will oversee a robust complaint redressal mechanism.A monthly compliance report with the details of complaints redressal will have to be published.In case a message being circulated on a particular social media platform undermines the sovereignty of India, the social media platform will have to identify the first originator of the message.Here's what the social media companies sayGoogle: A Google spokesperson has said the company is continuously fighting illegal content in an "effective and fair way". It is also working to comply with local laws through its consistent investment in product changes, resources and personnel. "We realise that our work in keeping our platforms secure is never done and we will continue to refine our existing approaches, and evolve our policies and be as transparent as possible about how we make decisions,” the spokesperson said, as quoted by news agency PTI.Facebook: Facebook which also owns Instagram said it is working towards implementing the rules. It is also discussing some issues with the government. Facebook, however, has brought in the provisions of voluntary verification, grievance redressal and 24-hour timeline to remove flagged content, PTI reported.WhatsApp: WhatsApp on Wednesday filed a legal complaint in Delhi seeking to block the rules as it said the new rules would violate their privacy clauses. It has objected to the new rule which would require a social media platform to disclose the first originator of a message.Twitter has not commented on their official status in complying with the rulesIndia presents a huge market for these social media giants with 53 crore WhatsApp users, 44.8 crore YouTube users, 41 crore Facebook subscribers, 21 crore Instagram users and 1.75 crore on Twitter.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/facebook-twitter-youtube-to-face-action-here-what-the-companies-say-101621993604643.html
26-05-2021||India||Tracking Cyclone Yaas||||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tracking-cyclone-yaas-101621989928760.html
26-05-2021||India||Delhiwale: Well, a ruin in Hauz Khas||They’re known for their restaurants and boutiques, their lake view rooftops and their loud music. But the lanes of Delhi’s HKV, the fashionable Hauz Khas Village, have village-like experiences to offer too. One lane ends into a sprawling yard with a lesser-known landmark. Full of stones and dust, it looks like the remains of a historic site.It’s a well.The so-named Gung Wala Kuan looks as scenically dated as emperor Feroze Shah Tughlaq’s tomb a few lanes away, in another corner of the village. Parts of the well have collapsed. Solitary peepal leaves are growing out from between the stones. A forest of trees stands behind, making this edifice the last civilisational point of the village. The desolation makes one feel far from any city, though this is south Delhi’s heart.This afternoon, a young man is sitting on the stone stairs leading up to the platform.“It’s a centuries-old well but has been dead for many years... I remember the water tasted sweet,” says Mange Ram Gochhwal on phone; his family has been in the village for generations. In his 60s, he summons his childhood memories of the well, when HKV was an archetypical village with farmers working on the surrounding lands that yielded crops like chana (in winter) and jwar and bajra (in summer). For a good part of the day, a pair of bulls would circle this well, drawing water through a leather device called charsa. In the morning, the village men would bathe in the well. The village had no running water then and the women would walk to the well carrying pots on their head. The well was also a laundry-washing site. Mr Gochhwal’s grand-uncle, late Ghanshyam, once built a chubachha, or tank, beside the well, into which water would be stored in great quantity. It was like a swimming pool for the village kids, recalls Mr Gochhwal.Today there’s no sign of that tank. On climbing the short flight of stairs, one fears a single misstep could end in a plunge into the well’s unknown depth. But it’s filled with earth, and the fear recedes.One day the lockdown will lift, the pandemic will recede, the party crowd will reclaim the village, but this ruined well will continue to be permeated in its forever lockdown ambiance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhiwale-well-a-ruin-in-hauz-khas-101621989716729.html
26-05-2021||India||Total lunar eclipse, blood moon and supermoon coming together today||A supercelestial event will take place on Wednesday as the first lunar eclipse of 2021 will take place. This event will be more special as it will coincide with a supermoon, a total lunar eclipse and a red blood moon all at once.Significantly, a supermoon and a total lunar eclipse have not occurred together in nearly six years.People in India can catch live streaming of the lunar eclipse here:What is a total lunar eclipse?During a total lunar eclipse, the Earth comes in between the Sun and the Moon blocking all the direct sunlight that could fall upon the Earth's natural satellite. This blockage of the sunlight casts the Earth's shadow on the surface of the Moon and thus occurs the total lunar eclipse.The total lunar eclipse will not be visible in the national capital as the moon will be below the horizon there for some time, according to the Time and Date report.The lunar eclipse will be visible for a short span of time from the north-eastern parts of India, West Bengal, Odisha and the Andaman and Nicobar Islands, the Ministry of Earth Sciences has informed.A partial lunar eclipse can be seen in Agartala, Kolkata, Cherrapunji, Cooch Behar, Imphal, Itanagar, Guwahati, Malda, Kohima, Lumding, Puri, Silchar and Digha.The partial phase of the lunar eclipse will begin at 3.15pm and end at 6.23pm in India, while the total phase will begin at 4.39pm and end at 4.58pm. The total duration of the eclipse is 5 hours, 2 minutes. The total duration of the partial phases is 2 hours, 53 minutes. The duration of the full eclipse is 14 minutes.The partial eclipse will be visible from Port Blair from 5.38pm for 45 minutes and a partial eclipse can be seen in West Bengal's Malda and Odisha’s Puri at 6.21pm for 2 minutes.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) said that in India, just after the moonrise, the partial phase of the eclipse will end in the northeastern parts of India (except Sikkim), parts of West Bengal, some parts of Odisha, Andaman and Nicobar Islands.What is a blood moon?During the eclipse, when the Moon is covered by the Earth's shadow it goes dark. However, the Moon doesn't go completely black. Instead, it takes a red colour. Therefore, a total lunar eclipse is often called red or blood moon.What is a Supermoon?The National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) defines that a Supermoon occurs when the Moon’s orbit is closest to the Earth at the same time the Moon is full.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/total-lunar-eclipse-blood-moon-and-supermoon-coming-together-today-101621987500924.html
26-05-2021||India||‘Black day’ protest to mark 6 months of stir||Farmers agitating against the three farm laws pushed through Parliament in September will gather at the three protest sites at Delhi’s borders and urged people to hoist black flags in their support on Wednesday, when their agitation completes six months.The Samyukta Kisan Morcha, a collective of around 30 farmers’ unions, also decided to hold demonstrations, although the Delhi police said no permission has been given for a protest or a rally and appealed to the protesters to maintain law and order, and observe Covid-appropriate behaviour.Experts have warned that any such gathering could turn into a superspreader event, particularly at a time when cases have been receding in the Capital after a devastating few weeks and a hard lockdown.In a statement issued on Tuesday, the SKM said the farmers’ unions across the country will observe a “Black Day”.“Tomorrow, on Buddha Poornima, at the protest sites at Delhi borders as well as in other locations across the country, farmers will celebrate the holy day. This farmer’s movement is running on truth and non-violence, and will be completing 6 months of its historical struggle tomorrow,” the SKM said in the statement.Thousands of farmers have been camping at Delhi’s borders at Singhu, Ghazipur, and Tikri, since November to press the government into repealing the new laws, which they say will erode their bargaining power, weaken a system of assured prices, and leave them vulnerable to exploitation by big agri businesses.Farm leaders have also asked people to don black clothes to show support for the agitation. “Demonstrations should also be held in the chaurahas with sloganeering. Farmers said that by putting black flags on houses, shops, offices, tractors, cars, jeeps, scooters, motorcycles, buses and trucks, citizens should oppose the three agricultural laws, the Electricity Amendment Bill and the Pollution Ordinance,” the SKM statement said.The development has come a week after the farm unions urged the Centre to resume talks, asserting that the discussion would have to be about repealing the new farm laws. So far, the government has held 11 rounds of discussions but none have failed to break the deadlock.The government has said that the laws aim to ease restrictions on farm trade by setting up free markets, allow traders to stockpile large stocks for future sales, and lay down a framework for contract farming.Additional police personnel have been deployed at the bordersto prepare for Wednesday, Delhi police spokesperson Chinmoy Biswal said.The continuous rain in the Capital last week, and the deadly second wave of the pandemic since March, have led to a thinning of the numbers at the protest sites. But, the farmers said they will continue the agitation till their demands are met.Gurjant Singh, 36, a farmer from Punjab’s Mohali district, who has been protesting at the Singhu border said, “Though the enthusiasm among the protesters who only joined us occassionally has ebbed a bit, those fighting for their land and livelihood are still here.”SKM’s media coordinator, Harinder Singh, said that the organisers have taken several steps to arrest the spread of the virus at the protest sites. “We even put up the sound system [loudspeakers] closer to the trolleys across protest sites so that farmers would not have to come towards the stage to listen to the speeches. We invited doctors to speak on stage and educate the farmers on precautions, symptoms and Covid-appropriate behaviour,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/black-day-protest-to-mark-6-months-of-stir-101621989237263.html
26-05-2021||India||Most states tick CBSE multiple choice option||Most states on Tuesday told the Union education ministry that the Central Board for Secondary Education’s (CBSE) Class 12 examinations should be conducted, picking a proposed method that involves a shorter duration for the tests, holding them at schools where students are enrolled, and switching to only multiple choice and short-answer questions.A high-level meeting called by the Union ministry of education on Sunday to discuss the feasibility of conducting the exams remained inconclusive, even as officials said there was “broad consensus” that the test must be held for a limited number of subjects and with a shorter duration after the Covid-19 situation comes under control.On Tuesday, only Delhi, Punjab and West Bengal opposed holding the examinations immediately, saying they should be conducted only after all teachers and students are vaccinated -- a difficult plan not just because of the current shortage of vaccines but also because many Class 12 students are under the age of 18 years, a segment for which there are currently no approved vaccines in the country.The decision will apply not just to CBSE but likely to other boards as well, which will follow the model adopted by the country’s largest board.During Sunday’s meeting, two options were presented to the states – first, a three-hour examination for 19 major subjects; second, 90-minute tests, with students having to appear only in one language and three elective subjects. At least a dozen states said on Tuesday that they preferred the second option to conduct the exams. Among them were Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Chhattisgarh, Himachal Pradesh, Haryana, Karnataka, Telangana and Andhra Pradesh. Delhi and Punjab also preferred the second option, but said the exams should be conducted only after all teachers and students were vaccinated.There were, however, differences on when the examinations should be held. Some flood- and extreme rainfall-prone states such as Bihar, Assam and Uttarakhand said they wanted the examinations to be held after the monsoon season, which typically ends by September.“If the Centre and state governments work together, it would take 3 to 4 weeks to fully vaccinate teachers and students of Class 12. Following vaccination, the ministry can arrange for examination as per option B,” Delhi education minister Manish Sisodia wrote to the Union education ministry on Tuesday.Punjab school education minister Vijay Inder Singla backed Sisodia’s suggestion and said the state preferred the second option. “All students appearing in Class 12 board exams and teachers, both government and private, should be vaccinated before the board exams are started,” he said.West Bengal said it wanted the examinations to be cancelled. An official of the state education department said on condition of anonymity that the state government wanted an indefinite postponement in view of the pandemic.CBSE has proposed to conduct exams between July and August, tentatively, and results may be announced in September, according to people aware of the developments. Around 1,400,000 students are scheduled to appear in CBSE Class 12 exams this year.On Sunday, Pokhriyal said that an “informed” and “collaborative” decision will be taken on Class 12 exams at the earliest. During the meeting, he also discussed “how important Class 12 exams are to decide the future of students”. He said a decision on the matter will likely be taken by June 1.As per officials in multiple states, there was a view that the shorter duration examinations for fewer subjects should be held in July before the onset of heavy rainfall and floods in the monsoon season.The Uttarakhand government expressed its inability to conduct the examinations after mid-July and in August, when the state receives heavy rainfall. “If exams cannot be held in June end or July first week, then it should be postponed till September as during the peaking monsoon season, examinations in a hill state like ours won’t be suitable,” said Uttarakhand school education secretary R Meenakshi Sundaram.The Bihar government, too, has raised the issue of floods, especially in the northern parts of the state in July-end and August. Bihar education minister Vijay Kumar Choudhary asked the Centre to avoid examinations during the monsoon. “The Centre should consider an online option,” he said. The Bihar board examinations were held in February and results were declared in March end, he added.The Jharkhand, Tamil Nadu, Chhattisgarh and Kerala governments want the CBSE examinations to be held with adequate time given to students to prepare. Kerala education minister V Sivankutty said the government preferred the second option and informed the Centre that apprehension of students regarding their higher studies should be addressed immediately. “We also want the second option,” said Jharkhand education secretary Rajesh Sharma. Tamil Nadu school education minister Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi told reporters that they preferred the second option as it would reduce the stress on students. Chhattisgarh education minister Prem Sai Singh Tekam wrote a letter to Pokhriyal and said that the Centre should hold CBSE examinations as early as possible.Himachal Pradesh education secretary Rajeev Sharma wrote to the education ministry, saying the second option appeared feasible as it required a shorter window and would reduce the stress on students.Adviser to Jammu and Kashmir Lieutenant Governor (L-G), RR Bhatnagar, who also holds the school education portfolio, said Class 12 exams of the J&K state board had already been conducted in Kashmir and two-third of them were completed in the Jammu region.Chandigarh has opted for the shorter option, said director school education Rubinderjit Singh Brar.The Telangana and Andhra Pradesh governments informed the Centre that they also preferred the second option but the final decision depended on the ground situation of the pandemic. Andhra Pradesh is holding Class 10 examinations from June 7, even though Telangana has cancelled all exams and promoted all students enrolled for exams except those in Class 12, whose examination dates would be announced later, said state education minister Adimulapu Suresh.Haryana education minister Kanwar Pal said the state will follow in letter and spirit the Centre’s direction and they, too, preferred the second option. He said if the Centre gave a green signal to hold the exams, the state education department would start the state board examinations from June 20.However, the states that wanted the first option to be implemented were Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan.Madhya Pradesh school education minister Inder Singh Parmar said they wanted the first option as changing the examination system midway could create problems for the students. He added that the CBSE exam schedule should be decided after taking stock of the Covid-19 situation in different states. The minister said MP will take a final decision on conducting Class 12 exams of the MP board in the first week of June. Rajasthan education minister Govind Singh Dotasara said the state supported holding the Class 12 exams. “The GoI [Government of India] has given two options of which we have supported the existing format of holding the exam (3-hour paper). A change in pattern would not be comfortable for the students. The exam date should be decided only after assessing the Covid19 situation.”Several school principals also called for the cancellation of exams. “If the government conducts exams by August-September, we fear that the pandemic might spread once again. Students who are sick with mild symptoms might conceal the fact and appear for the exam due to the fear of missing out on the year. Students can carry home the virus and endanger their family members,” said AK Jha, principal of Government Co-ed Sarvodaya Vidyalaya in Delhi’s Rohini.Ameeta Mulla Wattal, principal of Springdales School, Pusa Road, said: “We need to come up with some alternative criteria since the pandemic continues to prevail. Students went through a lot of anxiety last year and the same is continuing this year as well. We can explore the possibility of delinking boards with college entrances.”During the meeting on Sunday, two options proposed by CBSE for conducting Class 12 exams were discussed at length. In the first option, the examination for major subjects may be conducted at the “designated examination centres and in the existing format” like previous years, and for the minor subjects, “marks can be calculated as per the assessment scheme based on the performance in the major subjects”. The second option involves multiple changes, including conducting exams at schools where the students are enrolled, reducing the duration of examination, and switching to only multiple choice and short answer type questions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/most-states-tick-cbse-multiple-choice-option-101621988854872.html
26-05-2021||India||CISF chief Jaiswal to be new CBI director||The Centre on Tuesday appointed Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) chief Subodh Kumar Jaiswal as the new director of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), filling a key position that has been vacant since February.An order issued by Appointments Committee of Cabinet (ACC) stated that Jaiswal, a 1985-batch Maharashtra cadre Indian Police Force (IPS) officer, will be the CBI director for two years, or until further orders.The post has been lying vacant since the first week of February, when Rishi Kumar Shukla completed his tenure. Additional director Praveen Sinha has been acting as interim chief of the premier investigation agency since then.The decision to appoint Jaiswal was taken a day after a 90-minute meeting by a high-powered panel of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Chief Justice of India NV Ramana and Congress Lok Sabha floor leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury. Jaiswal’s name was shortlisted along with two others officers -- 1985-batch IPS officer Kumar Rajesh Chandra, and 1986-batch officer VSK Kaumudi.During the meeting, Chowdhury opposed the process adopted but later agreed to the three names.Jaiswal earlier served as the Maharashtra director general of police (DGP) before coming to the Centre on deputation last year.During his tenure as Maharashtra director general of Police (DGP), he had differences with the Maha Vikas Aghadi coalition government on various issues, including its transfer policy. He had opposed the transfer of Indian Police Service (IPS) officers before completion of two years of tenure, as per the provisions of the Maharashtra Police Act. He served in the Mumbai Anti-Terrorism Squad, the Maharashtra police special investigation team (SIT) and the state reserve police force. He also oversaw the investigation into the 2018 Bhima-Koregaon violence and the initial charge sheet in the Elgar Parishad case, before the high-profile probes were transferred to the National Investigation Agency.In his previous central deputation, he served with the Special Protection Group (SPG), which secures the Prime Minister, and with the Research and Analysis Wing (R&AW), the country’s external intelligence agency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cisf-chief-jaiswal-to-be-new-cbi-director-101621988648318.html
26-05-2021||India||Over 1 million evacuated, states brace for Yaas landfall today||Yaas intensified into a “very severe cyclonic storm” on Tuesday evening and hurtled towards India’s eastern coast as Odisha and West Bengal braced for landfall, and evacuated roughly 1.4 million people from low-lying areas and corralled them into storm shelters.In Bengal, two people were electrocuted and around 80 houses were destroyed in a pre-cyclone storm as the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said the cyclone was likely to hit close to the Chandbali-Dhamra port in Odisha by noon on Wednesday.“During landfall it will have a wind speed up to 185 kmph. The landfall will be at Chandbali, which is likely to witness the maximum damage. Even after landfall, Yaas will maintain the intensity of a cyclone for about 12 to 18 hours before it degenerates,” said IMD director general Mrutyunjay Mohapatra.Odisha is anticipated to bear the maximum brunt of the second major cyclone to hit the country in nine days with some impact on West Bengal, primarily driven by surge and rainfall-induced floods in the coastal districts.Odisha’s special relief commissioner Pradip Jena said 500,000 people were shifted to cyclone shelters in 15 districts. West Bengal evacuated roughly 900,000 people, said chief minister Mamata Banerjee.Jharkhand, Bihar and Andhra Pradesh prepared for the storm’s impact too.Experts said there was likely to be total destruction of thatched houses; extensive damage to mud houses; potential threat from flying objects; bending/uprooting of power and communication poles and widespread damage to standing crops.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-1-million-evacuated-states-brace-for-yaas-landfall-today-101621988428059.html
26-05-2021||India||No jobs, fear of third wave may keep migrants away||Bajrang Yadav (45), a worker at a gearbox manufacturing factory in west Delhi’s Naraina, along with a few other labourers, boarded a crowded bus from the Anand Vihar interstate bus terminus (ISBT) on April 19 to leave for his village in Uttar Pradesh’s Pratapgarh.Delhi was witnessing an unprecedented surge in Covid-19 cases, and a lockdown was to come into effect on April 20. The government’s assurance that the curbs will be lifted soon could not keep Yadav back.Around five weeks since, Delhi is still under a lockdown, and its impact has been that the case trajectory has reducing significantly. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal suggested on Sunday that a phased relaxation was likely to start from May 31.In the interim, life has changed for Yadav. He lost his elder brother to Covid-19. Though his wife and 13-year-old son recovered from the viral infection, they are still on medicines. “I will not be able to return to Delhi anytime soon. I have to be with my family till they recover. I have exhausted all my savings on their treatment. I will try getting some work here for the time being,” said Yadav over the phone on Tuesday.Ravi Kumar, who works in a cardboard factory; Brajkishore Tiwari, who works with a catering contractor; Hiralal Jha, a self-employed plumber; and Ehsaan Ali, a construction worker, are among thousands of migrant workers who left the city in the past one month.More than 800,000 workers left the city in buses from the three ISBTs in the first four weeks of the lockdown, said a government report first published in HT on Saturday. There are many more which the government could not keep count of -- people leaving on trains, and also those leaving after the first four weeks.Now, with the infection spreading to villages, workers are caught in a web of death and despair. Most of them have run out of savings and are unlikely to return to the Capital despite possibility of lockdown being lifted in phases.Amid fears of an impending third wave, several said they were not likely to return to Delhi immediately.“Last year, workers returned as markets opened. In a few weeks, many of them got jobs too. Now things are different. There is no certainty of any job for a long time as the economy has been hit before it could fully recover. In the absence of a safety net, people are scared to return,” said Rajesh Kumar, general secretary, Indian Federation of Trade Unions (Delhi).This could translate into markets, factories, industries, the construction sector, and business enterprises in the city witnessing a labour shortage and operating below capacity for a significant duration in the days to come.“A large number of employers are unlikely to be in a position to hire now,” said Neeraj Sehgal, owner of two factories that produce fire retardants and bulletproof doors.Sehgal, who is also the general secretary of the Mayapuri industrial area welfare association, said: “Factories could touch a maximum of 80% production capacity when cases had significantly declined after the first wave of the pandemic. Though there is no income, factory owners have to pay rent, bills, taxes and salaries. Even if the lockdown is lifted, the production capacity of factories will not touch 50% in three months.”The government, however, tried to reassure the migrant workers, and said adequate arrangements were in place to ensure workers did not face hardships.Delhi’s revenue minister Kailash Gahlot said: “The government has taken a series of steps for welfare of migrant workers during the lockdown, which includes distributing 100% subsidised ration for two months and expanding the safety net of the construction workers’ welfare scheme, under which registered workers are entitled to ₹5,000 a month as a relief measure. We have also announced free ration for those without ration cards.”Experts feared it may take a while before the workforce returns.Debolina Kundu, professor at the National Institute of Urban Affairs, said: “It is unlikely that migrant workers will return to Delhi as soon as the lockdown is lifted. Most workers have exhausted their savings and are not in a position to pay rent or sustain themselves without employment. A revamp of the health sector with assured social security benefits and employment guarantee, in addition to cheap housing and assured food rations, are the measures needed to make most cities functional again.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-jobs-fear-of-third-wave-may-keep-migrants-away-101621987465604.html
26-05-2021||India||BJP plans Covid relief work in 100k villages||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has set a target of covering 100,000 villages for relief work and organising 50,000 blood donation camps across the country to mark the party’s seventh year in power at the Centre on May 30, people aware of the developments said.Instead of public programmes, the focus this year will be on relief measures in the wake of the ongoing second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, they added.The decision was taken at a party meeting of national office bearers on Monday, when BJP president JP Nadda said that workers will have to double their efforts to reach out to people with needs. However, these relief programmes will be conducted without any breach in Covid protocols, a party functionary said.According to two other senior functionaries who were privy to the meeting, Nadda also stressed on ensuring that functionaries as well as the party cadre do not indulge in any form of “political blame game”.“The Opposition has been trying to politicise the pandemic and create an impression that the government did not make the required efforts to provide health care and vaccines for the people. At a time like this, party workers have been told to ensure that they focus only on providing relief,” one of the functionaries cited above said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-plans-covid-relief-work-in-100k-villages-101621987239481.html
26-05-2021||India||From April 1 to May 25, 577 children lost both parents to Covid: Govt||At least 577 children across the country lost both parents to Covid-19 from April 1 to May 25, Union minister for women and child development Smriti Irani said on Tuesday, as appeals for adoption of vulnerable children went viral on social media, prompting the government to warn people against illegal adoptions.“GOI is committed to support and protect every vulnerable child due to loss of both parents to Covid-19. From 1st April 2021 till 2:00 PM today (Tuesday), the State Governments & UTs across the country have reported 577 children whose parents succumbed to Covid-19,” Irani tweeted.According to a WCD ministry official, the orphaned children were being rehabilitated with their extended families or in childcare institutions. “The ministry has been urging everyone to report such children on the childcare helpline (1098) so that action can be taken,” the official said, adding, “the government has galvanized all resources available to it to help track the vulnerable children in order to ensure necessary assistance at every level.”The official pointed out that people were circulating unconfirmed data on children orphaned, leading to confusion.On May 21, HT reported that the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) was working on a centralised digital database to monitor and help children who lost both their parents to Covid-19.The issue has become a point of concern after posts on social media suggested that children orphaned due to Covid-19 amid the raging second wave were up for adoption. It prompted the WCD ministry to write to the Union health ministry to seek directions on children who lost both parents due to the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/from-april-1-to-may-25-577-children-lost-both-parents-to-covid-govt-101621986619528.html
26-05-2021||India||Toolkit case: Row escalates as leaders get notices, Cong seeks tag on ministers||The tussle over a social media “toolkit” to allegedly defame the government intensified on Tuesday as it emerged that two Congress functionaries were sent notices by the Delhi Police to join the investigation in a complaint they originally filed, even as their party urged Twitter to tag as “manipulated media” posts by 11 Union ministers for “spreading false and malicious propaganda”.The row began last week when Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Sambit Patra shared an image purportedly showing Congress documents on how to criticise the government and the PM in public. The post has now been flagged as “manipulated media” by Twitter. Several fact-checking websites highlighted design and typographical features in the document that, they alleged, suggested it was doctored.On Monday, Congress spokesperson Randeep Surjewala in a letter to Twitter, flagged posts by Union ministers such as Piyush Goyal, Harsh Vardhan, Ramesh Pokhriyal, Ravi Shankar Prasad, and Smriti Irani for action.“You would appreciate that the forged, fabricated material and the claims made under the malicious #CongressToolkitExposed, by the various ministers above-named, is identical to the material that has already marked as ‘manipulative media’, by Twitter, on various accounts including that of the BJP Spokesperson- Mr. Sambit Patra (@sambitswaraj),” Surjewala said in the letter.“...people tend to believe ‘true’ and take on face value, any information that is put up directly by a Union Minister of the Government of India through his/her official/verified Twitter account,” the letter said, adding that the ministers should be dealt in the same manner as Patra.The BJP has claimed that the documents posted by Patra were part of a “toolkit” made to defame Prime Minister Narendra Modi and build a biased narrative over Covid-19 management, and the Central Vista project.Twitter’s move against Patra has become controversial with the Delhi Police issuing a notice to the company asking it to offer any more evidence it may have on why it labelled the document as manipulated.On Tuesday, it emerged that the police also sent notices to two Congress leaders – Rajeev Gowda, who heads the Congress party’s research department, and Rohan Gupta, the party’s social media head.A police officer familiar with the case details, said: “The two Congress leaders mailed a complaint through a city lawyer. We asked them to meet the investigating officer for a routine examination. Before proceeding, we need to verify if the complaint was indeed sent by them. The IO could then ask other questions related to the allegations.”The two Congress leaders filed a complaint with the Delhi Police on May 18, seeking a first information report (FIR) against some senior BJP leaders for allegedly propagating a “fake toolkit” on Twitter under the hashtag CongressToolkitExposed.Police officials said they were sent notices on May 21, the same day Twitter’s (India) managing director Manish Maheshwari too was sent a similar notice. None of the three joined the inquiry that is being done by the special cell, a unit of the force that normally probes terror cases.A second police officer associated with the case, while asking not to be named, said no fresh notices have been sent to the two Congress leaders. “These notices were served last week based on a complaint received from them (Congress leaders) by the deputy commissioner of the police (DCP) special cell. They were asked to join the probe so that they could help us in carrying the investigation forward. They could shed light on the allegations that the toolkit circulated was a fake one. Since they were acquainted with the case and possessed information related to it, they were asked to join the probe, which they have not,” the officer said.“In our reply we have stated our party had also filed a complaint with the Chhattisgarh Police. The Chhattisgarh Police addressed our complaint, and they registered an FIR. Since the case in Chhattisgarh is already proceeding, we want to continue with their (Chhattisgarh Police) investigation,” said Godwa, who is a party spokesperson.When contacted over phone, Gupta gave a similar response and added: “In our reply we also asked the Delhi Police to transfer the details available with them regarding the case to the Chhattisgarh Police. We have told them that we are joining the Chhattisgarh Police’s investigation as co-complainant.”The Delhi Police officially did not comment on the matter.The joint complaint by Gowda and Gupta was filed with Delhi Police commissioner SN Shrivastava and the Tughlak Road police station on May 18. It was later transferred to the special cell for further inquiry. Police said they are conducting a preliminary inquiryOn Monday evening, police visited Twitter’s offices in South Delhi’s Lado Sarai and Gurugram’s Golf Course Road to secure the participation of Twitter’s Maheshwari in the probe. Police officials familiar with the investigation, have said that Maheswari has refused to join investigation citing that he is not the concerned person.“He said he is from Twitter India and the tweet was flagged as Manipulated Media by Twitter Inc. He also said he is in-charge of sales in India. We are in touch with Twitter officials and they will have to join the probe. They must have some information on the basis of which they flagged the tweet as manipulated,” an officer, who wished not to be named, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/toolkit-case-row-escalates-as-leaders-get-notices-cong-seeks-tag-on-ministers-101621983780711.html
26-05-2021||India||Names of 2 contenders dropped from CBI chief race after CJI statement||The high-powered committee led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, which met on Monday evening to decide the name of new Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) director, dropped the names of two fancied contenders , Rakesh Asthana and Y C Modi, both 1984 batch IPS officers , from the list after Chief Justice of India (CJI) N V Ramana mentioned a 2019 Supreme Court ruling on such appointments, people familiar with the development said.As soon as the meeting began on Monday at 7 Lok Kalyan Marg, with a Department of Personnel and Training (DoPT) officer present there to assist Modi, Ramana, and Congress Lok Sabha floor leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, the last mentioned pointed out that the seniority, integrity and experience in investigating anti-corruption cases should be the criteria to select the suitable officer, said a person familiar with the happenings who asked not to be named.A list of 109 IPS officers from 1984 to 1987 batches was shared by the DoPT with the panel members in mid-May but this was pruned to 16 names before the meeting on Monday, something to which Chowdhury objected.The chief justice, according to another person familiar with the happenings who requested anonymity, said that the rule of law was most important and cited a March 2019 apex court ruling by then CJI Ranjan Gogoi in the Prakash Singh case, which makes it clear that no officer with less than six months left in retirement should be appointed as a police chief.Chowdhury agreed with the CJI, and the PM too said rule of law must be followed in the appointment, said the second person.This immediately ruled out Y C Modi, currently director general of National Investigation Agency (NIA), Rakesh Asthana, currently director general of Border Security Force (BSF), and another 1984 batch IPS officer , S S Deswal, currently DG Indo Tibet Border Police (ITBP) as they are set to retire in May, July and August respectively.Both Asthana and Modi are believed to be close to the government and have substantial experience of working in CBI. They were considered top contenders for the coveted post, in terms of both experience and seniorityThe panel then decided that CBI director will be selected from three officers – Subodh Jaiswal, 1985 batch Maharashtra cadre officer, currently director general Central Industrial Security Force (CISF); Kumar Rajesh Chandra, 1985 batch officer from Bihar cadre, currently DG Sashastra Seema Bal; and 1986 batch officer V S K Kaumudi, special secretary (internal security) in ministry of home affairs and DG Bureau of Police Research and Development (BPRD). “The panel had no objection on these names, except that Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury gave a dissent note on the way the list was pruned by DOPT from 109 to 16 officers without consulting the panel”, said the first person.“It was a cordial meeting, and everybody agreed on the names,” said a third person familiar with the matter who asked not to be named.“It is for the first time that CBI Director’s selection will happen from only those officers having at least six months left for their retirement. This might become a precedent in future selection as well, particularly in CBI, Intelligence Bureau and Research and Analysis Wing (RAW), which have a fixed tenure of two years,” added the third person.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/names-of-2-contenders-dropped-from-cbi-chief-race-after-cji-statement-101621983548811.html
26-05-2021||India||Full moon could inflict increased damage: IMD||When cyclone Yaas makes landfall on Wednesday, it would coincide with the full moon perigean spring tide and inflict maximum damage, India Meteorological Department (IMD) officials have warned.“The damage would be the maximum in the coastal districts of East Midnapore and South 24 Parganas,” said Sanjib Banerjee, deputy director, IMD Kolkata.Experts said that the water level in the sea rises at least a metre high during a spring tide, which occurs during full moon, over a normal high tide that comes every day. The level is the highest during a perigean spring tide when the moon is the closest to earth.“The storm surge triggered by the cyclone at East Midnapore district would be 2-4 metres, while in South 24 Parganas it would be 1-2 metres. This is over and above the astronomical tide (spring tide),” said Banerjee.For the storm surge, IMD has issued a ‘red’ warning — the highest level of warning — for East Midnapore district, and an ‘orange’ warning (where officials are asked to remain prepared) for South 24 Parganas district.Yaas has already intensified into a ‘severe cyclone’ and is expected to gather more steam and become a ‘very severe cyclone’ by Tuesday late night before hitting the Odisha-West Bengal coasts somewhere around Balasore on Wednesday noon.“The water level is already high because of the spring tide and that’s more worrying. Sea and river water have gushed into some places along the coast and in the Sunderbans delta. Around nine lakh people have already been evacuated,” said West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee.The chief minister said that she along with top bureaucrats and some cabinet ministers would stay back at night in the control room set up at the secretariat to monitor the storm and the related disaster management work. Around three lakh government employees, from senior bureaucrats to home guards and civic volunteers, have been deployed for disaster management work and carry out relief work after the cyclone. The army has been kept on standby too.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/full-moon-could-inflict-increased-damage-imd-101621983280487.html
26-05-2021||India||Manhunt in Antigua as Mehul Choksi goes missing||Police in Antigua have launched a search for fugitive diamantaire Mehul Choksi, who went missing in the tiny Caribbean island on Sunday evening after heading to a popular local restaurant for dinner, according to his lawyer and a missing persons notice issued by the country’s Royal Police Force.Indian agencies have also alerted Interpol for more information about his whereabouts, people familiar with the developments said.Reports in the Antiguan media on Monday suggested that Choksi may have fled to Cuba fearing his extradition to India, but his lawyer Vijay Aggarwal denied the contention, and Indian agencies said they had no such information.Prime Minister Gaston Browne, in a video posted by antiguanewsroom.com, said in the Antiguan parliament on Tuesday that there is no “reliable information to date to confirm that he has fled the country. It is likely that he may still be here and law enforcement is utilizing all efforts, including all intelligence to locate him.”He added that in case it is true that Choksi has indeed fled the country, “we could get judgement in absentia and we will revoke his citizenship in due course.” Other than the extradition proceedings, Choksi is also fighting another case on the revocation of his citzenship in the island nation.Browne said that “if indeed, Mr Choksi has fled the country as speculated, it would have been by boat, because no aircraft with any flight plan (to Cuba) and any passenger by the name of Mehul Choksi would have been found by the authority,” adding that “no plane would have landed in this country illegally.”“Mehul Choksi is missing. His family members are worried and anxious and had called me to discuss. Antigua police are investigating. Family is in the dark and worried about his safety,” his lawyer Aggarwal saidChoksi, who has sought refuge in Antigua after allegedly cheating Punjab National Bank of ₹13,578 crore along with his nephew Nirav Modi, and fleeing India in 2018, left his home on Monday “to go for dinner at a well-known restaurant in the southern part of the island and was never seen again”, according to a report in the antiguanewsroom.com. Modi is facing extradition proceedings in the UK.The diamond merchant’s vehicle was found at Jolly Harbour, a popular nightlife hub on the 280 square km island with a population of less than 100,000 that is famous for its cricketing antecedents -- it is the home of talismanic West Indies batsman Sir Vivian Richards and iconic fast bowler Andy Roberts. Antigua famously has 365 beaches, “one for every day of the year”, according to its tourism tagline.Police in Antigua have sought public assistance for information on Choksi, who, according to a police statement, was last seen at about 5:15pm (local time) before leaving home in a car, which has since been recovered.After an official complaint was lodged at the Johnson Point Police Station, the police launched a manhunt. “Based on additional information received, the police have conducted numerous searches but to no avail,” the local police said in the statement on Monday.Giving information on his physical attributes for identification purpose, the police statement asked people to inform the Johnson Point Police Station or the Criminal Investigations Department (CID) if they had any information on his whereabouts. “Mehul is described as being of Indian descent, brown in complexion, five feet six inches (5’ 6”) in height, heavily built with a balding hairline. The police are seeking the assistance of the public in knowing the whereabouts of Mr Choksi,” the police statement said.A report in a Caribbean news website Associates Times, quoting a person named Govin, a purported close aide of Choksi, claimed that Choksi had “left the country a few days ago. and is currently living in a safe house in based in Cuba”. The claim, however, appeared at odds with the police’s version of events, and of his last sighting.Indian officials that HT spoke to, both in Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and Enforcement Directorate (ED) said they are in touch with concerned Antiguan officials through the ministry of external affairs (MEA), and were confident that Choksi would be traced soon.India has been pursuing Choksi’s extradition in Antigua since 2018, and an Interpol red notice is pending against him.In a charge sheet filed last year, ED alleged that Choksi did not just defraud Indian banks, but customers and lenders in Dubai and the US as well. His assets worth ₹2,500 crore have already been attached.As reported by HT in March, Antigua & Barbuda has initiated the process to cancel the Choksi’s citizenship granted under the Caribbean nation’s Citizenship by Investment Programme (CIP) in November 2017. He has challenged the move in a court in the Caribbean nation.India has an extradition arrangement with Antigua and Barbuda. As per the provisions of the Extradition Act, 1993 of Antigua and Barbuda, a fugitive may be extradited to a designated Commonwealth country or a state with which there are general or special arrangements or a bilateral treaty.Choksi’s extradition is pending since 2018 in court there, which he has challenged.People familiar with his citizenship said that Choksi has approached the high court there against Antigua’s process to revoke his citizenship, but the whole legal battle may take some time.His nephew Nirav Modi is currently lodged in a UK jail. The Westminster’s court in London, in February this year, ordered his extradition, which he has challenged in the UK high court.Sherbir Panag, Partner at Panag and Babu and an international legal expert on white collar crimes, said – “Assuming that Mehul Choksi has left the country after he felt that India’s diplomatic efforts to bring him back here are working, he will try to place himself in a jurisdiction which doesn’t have extradition arrangement/treaty with India”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manhunt-in-antigua-as-mehul-choksi-goes-missing-101621982591358.html
26-05-2021||India||Supreme Court rejects fear of death due to covid-19 as ground for bail||The Supreme Court on Tuesday stayed two controversial high court orders that granted protection from arrest to accused citing the apprehension of death during the Covid-19 pandemic. The bench held that courts, while considering bail applications, shall only consider merits of the case without being influenced by such contentions.One of the orders was passed by the Allahabad high court on May 10. It observed: “The apprehension of an accused being infected with novel coronavirus before and after his arrest, and the possibility of his spreading the same while coming into contact with the police, court and jail personnel or vice-versa can be considered to be a valid ground for grant of anticipatory bail to an accused.” Citing this reason, the high court granted protection from arrest to an alleged conman till January 3, 2022, considering the possibility of a third wave of infections by this September.The vacation bench of the top court, comprising justices Vineet Saran and BR Gavai, stayed the observations passed by the Allahabad high court and asked all courts to decide anticipatory bail pleas by considering only the facts of the case. The bench did not stay the bail granted to the accused, Prateek Jain, directing that if he fails to turn up on the date fixed for his appearance before the police, the bail shall stand cancelled, and the high court order stayed.The other order stayed by the SC came from Rajasthan. On May 17, the Rajasthan high court directed the police not to arrest any accused charged with an offence in which maximum punishment was up to three years in jail. The HC reasoned that a person who is arrested and sent to jail could be an asymptomatic carrier of Covid-19, and could infect other inmates. The state police chief was directed to pass necessary orders to ensure no arrests are made in cases where “punishment is up to three years and the case is to be tried by a First Class Magistrate”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-rejects-fear-of-death-due-to-covid-19-as-ground-for-bail-101621982285204.html
26-05-2021||India||Lakshadweep BJP chief joins protests against new regulations||The Bharatiya Janata Party’s Lakshadweep unit president Mohammad Kasim on Tuesday joined the chorus of protests against the island’s administrator Praful Khoda Patel’s controversial new regulations a day after Communist Party of India (Marxist) and Congress members of parliament aired their reservations about these. Kasim said people should be taken into confidence before announcing sweeping changes.“It seems some of the grievances of the island people are genuine. It is always good to seek the opinion of people and their elected representatives before taking decisions. I have written to both PM Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah, about this.”The issue has snowballed into a major political controversy with all parties closing their ranks . Strangely, the second in command in the BJP’s island unit said the charges were a mere “misinformation campaign” and said he was not aware of Kasim’s latest position.In Delhi, the Congress demanded the recall of Patel and the withdrawal of all unilateral and “anti-people” orders issued and promulgated under his tenure. It accused Patel of attempting to “destroy the cultural heritage” of Lakshadweep.Administrator Patel’s recent reforms have attracted widespread resentment among the local populace with many believing the changes are aimed at “destroying the unique culture and tradition” of the islands. About a dozen MPs including Mohammed Faizal, who represents the Island, sent letters to the President seeking his immediate recall.Patel, the administrator of the Union Territory of Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu, was given additional charge of Lakshadweep in last December following the demise of administrator Dineshwar Sharma.The MPs alleged that the administrator unilaterally decided to introduce norms on mandatory acquisition of private property for development, passed anti-goonda rules that gave police powers to detain anyone, removed beef from the mid-day meals served in schools, cut trees for road expansion projects and introduced the two-child norm for candidates contesting local body elections. None of these changes were discussed with the people. The Congress, CPI(M) and Muslim League joined hands to oppose the decisions, saying Patel was trying to “saffronise the island” where almost 95% population is Muslim.Congress General Secretary Ajay Maken claimed in a press conference in Delhi that the rationale behind Patel’s appointment was two-fold: one, to fulfil BJP’s ideological objective in the Islands and two, to ensure the presence of a BJP representative in Lakshadweep.But the BJP strongly defended Patel, who was the home minister when Narendra Modi was Chief Minister of Gujarat. Party vice-president in charge of the island A P Abdullah Kutty said he is not aware of Kasim’s latest position. “These moves are aimed at the overall development of the island. Usually administrators become pawns in the hands of local leaders. But this time it is not happening so all have ganged up against him,” he said, adding that the ongoing “save Lakshadweep campaign” was politically motivated.BJP’s Kerala state unit president K Surendran has also criticized the move. “These MPs are spreading canards. Beef was not banned in the island at all. Some of the uninhabited islands are becoming a haven for anti-national forces. Development of the island is the need of the hour”.But more MPs have joined the protest seeking the recall of the administrator. “The Congress will send a team to the island to study the situation soon,” said AICC general secretary K C Venugopal adding the “BJP is trying to make a peaceful island another Kashmir.” On Monday, Venogopal also wrote a letter to President Ram Nath Kovind seeking the recall of PatelMohammed Faizal, who is a two-term MP from the island, said the new rules are an insult to local people. He added that according to the National Crime Records Bureau, the island has “lowest crime rate in the country and its small jails are almost empty”. He said some of Patel’s decisions went against the recommendations of Justice Raveendran Commission appointed by the Supreme Court in 2012 to look into allegations of some private resorts being allowed in violation of coastal zone regulations.“His moves to widen roads, and develop inner areas are against the integrated island management plan mooted by the commission. You can’t develop it (Lakshadweep) as a major tourism hub by hurting sentiments of local people. All elected representatives are kept in the dark,” he said.Many film personalities and artists have also joined the # ave Lakshadweep campaign. Meanwhile Lakshadweep police have arrested four people including two students for allegedly sending threatening message to the administrator.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lakshadweep-bjp-chief-joins-protests-against-new-regulations-101621981747037.html
26-05-2021||India||Yaas intensifies, batters east coast ahead of landfall today||Yaas intensified into a “very severe cyclonic storm” on Tuesday evening and hurtled towards India’s eastern coast as Odisha and West Bengal braced for landfall, and evacuated roughly 1.1 million people from low-lying areas and corralled them into storm shelters.In Bengal, two people were electrocuted and around 80 houses were destroyed in a pre-cyclone storm as the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said the cyclone was likely to hit close to the Chandbali-Dhamra port in Odisha by noon on Wednesday.“During landfall it will have a wind speed of 155 kmph-165 kmph, gusting to 185 kmph. The impact will be severe for six hours before and after the landfall at Chandbali. Big trees and electric poles may get uprooted. Chandbali is likely to witness the maximum damage due to the cyclone,” said IMD directort general Mrutyunjay Mohapatra.He said authorities prioritised four districts in Odisha — Jagatsinghpur, Kendrapara, Bhadrak and Balasore -- as likely bear the worst impact of Yaas.”Even after landfall, Yaas will maintain the intensity of a cyclone for about 12 to 18 hours before it degenerates,” said Mohapatra.Odisha is anticipated to bear the maximum brunt of the second major cyclone to hit the country in nine days -- Cyclone Tauktae battered India’s western coast last week-- with some impact on West Bengal, primarily driven by surge and rainfall-induced floods in the coastal districts.“Every life is precious, thus all possible steps should be taken to protect life,” Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik said. Very rough seas, stormy weather and gale winds are likely to affect shipping vessels and fishing operations.Odisha’s special relief commissioner Pradip Jena said 210,621 people were shifted to cyclone shelters in 15 districts. “6,900 cyclone centres are ready for use where 7.50 lakh people can be accommodated,” he added.Jena said 710 diesel generators, 813 tankers and 10,000 government employees were dispatched to the coastal districts. Another 2,000 workers are expected to reach their locations by Tuesday night. At least 4,000 rescue personnel have been deployed.In Bengal, a freak storm in Hooghly and North 24 Parganas districts left two people electrocuted and damaged 80 houses, said West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee .“This was unexpected... The tornado wreaked havoc in Chinsurah, partly damaging 40 houses. Two persons were also electrocuted to death,” she told reporters. In North 24 Parganas district’s Halisahar, the storm lasted a little over a minute, impacting 40 houses and injuring five people, the CM said. The state evacuated roughly 900,000 people.A major contingency plan was put in place to mitigate the impact of the cyclone on oil and gas installations. Odisha coast has two major ports at Dhamra and Paradip and an oil refinery at Paradip. West Bengal hosts a major port at Haldia.The National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) force earmarked its highest-ever number of teams, 113, for relief and rescue operations. Fifty-two teams were designated for Odisha, 45 for West Bengal, and the rest for Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Jharkhand and Andaman and Nicobar Islands, an NDRF spokesperson said.Each NDRF team has 47 personnel equipped with tree and pole cutters, communication gadgets, inflatable boats and basic medical aid. “All this has happened because as an extra measure of precaution and preparation as the central and state governments, on the basis of lessons learnt from earlier cyclones including the recent Tauktae, are very focussed on minimising damage to life and property and targeting zero casualty,” NDRF director general SN Pradhan said.Jharkhand, Bihar and Andhra Pradesh prepared for the storm’s impact.Jharkhand sounded high alert and evacuated people from East Singhbhum, West Singhbhum and other districts bordering West Bengal and Odisha. Chief minister Hemant Soren reviewed preparedness and asked officials to deal with the situation on war- footing.“The cyclone is likely to severely impact Kolhan division that comprises East Singhbhum, West Singhbhum and Saraikela-Kharsawan. Bokaro and Khunti are also likely to be severely impacted...All those in thatched houses and huts in bordering areas with West Bengal and Odisha are being shifted to shelter homes,” secretary, disaster management department, Amitabh Kaushal said.Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar held a review meeting and instructed officials to make all arrangements in advance. He directed officials to make alternative arrangements in hospitals, government as well as private, in the event of a power outage.Andhra Pradesh chief secretary Adityanath Das visited Srikakulam district to review arrangements.Independent experts warned that both the Arabian Sea and Bay of Bengal are exceptionally warm this year, making them favourable for development of powerful cyclones.“Waves up to 11.5m detected by National Institute of Ocean Technology morning in north Bay of Bengal, about 400km away from the coast, as cyclone Yaas moves in. INCOIS-IMD joint forecast indicates waves of 3-7 m along the Odisha-West Bengal coasts in 24 hours,” tweeted Roxy Mathew Koll, a climate scientist at Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology, warning of a massive storm surge.Experts said there was likely to be total destruction of thatched houses; extensive damage to mud houses; some damage to pucca houses; potential threat from flying objects; bending/ uprooting of power and communication poles; flooding of escape routes; disruption of railways, overhead power lines and signalling systems; widespread damage to standing crops, plantations, orchards, blowing down of mango trees; small boats may get detached from moorings and visibility may be severely affected.Tidal waves of height 2-4 metres above astronomical tide are likely to inundate low lying low laying areas of Medinipur, Balasore, Bhadrak and about two meters above astronomical tide are likely to inundate low lying low laying areas of South 24 Parganas, Kendrapara and Jagatsinghpur districts around the time of landfall.Winds at 80-90 kmph gusting to 100 kmph are expected over Puri, Cuttack, Khurda, Jajpur districts of Odisha and Jhargram, west Medinipur, North 24 Pargana districts of West Bengal.(with inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/yaas-intensifies-batters-east-coast-ahead-of-landfall-today-101621981387884.html
26-05-2021||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||There’s a myna inside my room in the office as I write this. It’s hot outside, but I will shortly shoo it away. It came in through a window installed a few days ago. To be exact, there was always a window. Only, it was one of those sheet glass ones affixed to the frame, and which could not be opened. Now, I have a tall sliding window that I always leave open. As regular readers of this column know, I contracted Covid in April. I suspect that despite all the precautions I took, the air in my room did me in (I could be wrong, but I have pretty much ruled out all other options). Hence the window. And hence the myna (which has been shooed away). There has been a lot of emphasis on variants and the role of superspreading events in the emergence of the second wave of the coronavirus disease pandemic in India. What hasn’t got much attention is ventilation, as I was reminded by my old friend and adman (no, he isn’t like Don Draper at all) Shashi Sinha. Not long after we spoke, the office of India’s Principal Scientific Adviser released an advisory titled “Stop the Transmission, Crush the Pandemic”, which featured an entire section on ventilation – at home, and at work. As India considers opening up as the second wave abates (Delhi, for instance, has seen a sharp fall in positivity rates to the low single digits, and could start opening up as early as next week), it would do well to focus on what may well have been a silent contributor to the surge in cases – ventilation.It’s important, when speaking of ventilation, to mention Linsey Marr, the aerosol and infectious diseases specialist at Virgina Tech, and among the first to claim that the Sars-CoV-2 virus that causes the coronavirus disease was transmissible by air. That was as early as April 2020, but no one listened to her and other scientists who were merely pointing out that virus-laden aerosol particles would pretty much behave like other aerosol particles of the same size – which means they can travel (farther than the six feet, for instance, that was initially considered the safe distance in the case of Covid-19), stay suspended for extended lengths of time, and, most importantly, be breathed in. It isn’t clear why WHO and national health bodies chose not to listen to scientists such as Marr. Or Richard Corsi, from Maseeh College at Portland University, and an expert in indoor air quality. Again, as long ago as April 2020, Corsi was speaking about how to make indoor spaces safe – using existing technologies. No one listened.It isn’t difficult to see how poor ventilation could have contributed to India’s second wave. By early February, cases in India had fallen to below 10,000 a day, and with the vaccine drive launched in January, most people believed India had won the war against the virus (it still might have, had it got its vaccine strategy right, but enough has been said on that). Consequently, everything opened up: restaurants (for indoor dining); bars; malls; offices (even multiplexes were functioning in most states; that’s right, closed, air-conditioned spaces, where they show movies). The use of public transport (closed buses, metros) increased. Virtual office meetings gave way to real ones – conference rooms filled up with many of the attendees wearing their masks on their chins or around their necks. Indoor airborne transmission of the virus may have well be responsible for most cases seen in February and March (and, along with so-called variants of concern and superspreader events, contributed to the second wave).As India opens up after the second wave, and looks forward to at least six months of non-pharmaceutical interventions and restrictions (most of the population is still unvaccinated), all of us would do well to pay attention to the work of scientists such as Marr and Corsi (or others, for there are many) to understand how to make indoor spaces safe. The primary focus should not be retail stores or restaurants or even offices. It should be schools.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-what-you-need-to-know-today-101621980454158.html
26-05-2021||India||Telangana resumes vaccination after 10 days||Hyderabad: The Covid-19 vaccination process in all Telangana government hospitals, which was kept in abeyance for the last 10 days due to shortage of stocks, resumed on Tuesday following instructions from chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao. While medical and health department authorities have not disclosed how much stock of vaccine was available with the state, they said the vaccination programme of the state government was confined to only those who had taken the first dose.The department, however, announced that designated private hospitals or Private Covid Vaccination Centres (PCVCs) in the state could start administering the jabs to individuals above 18 years from Tuesday.The government also permitted private hospitals to conduct vaccination drives at workplaces (on request made by institutions/companies/gated companies etc) by registering on the CoWIN portal and following Covid vaccination guidelines. At a review meeting held on Monday night, the chief minister also instructed state finance minister T Harish Rao and health officials to identify super-spreaders like RTC (Road Transportation Corporation) staff, cab drivers and delivery boys and work out modalities to conduct a special vaccination drive for them. The guidelines could be prepared accordingly, he said. KCR, as the chief minister is known, also asked health department authorities to study the Delhi and Maharashtra models which were successful in containing the spread of Covid-19 in the second wave. “We have to learn from the good experiences of other states. Reports suggest that the Delhi government is successfully curtailing the spread of Covid-19. Maharashtra also achieved good results in this regard. Find out what are the measures and action plan that they have taken,” the chief minister told officials. KCR suggested that a medical team from Telangana visit Delhi to examine the model adopted there to contain the virus and study the situation. “So far, we are getting good results in reducing the percentage of positive cases in Telangana. But we have to work to reduce its percentage further,” he said. The chief minister instructed that officials implement a two-pronged strategy of continuing the fever survey and distributing medical kits, while stepping up the number of tests for Covid-19. All those coming to the Primary Health Centres for Covid testing should be tested without fail, he said.KCR also asked officials to take steps to increase the bed strength in government hospitals to treat black fungus cases. The department officials told him that at present, 150 beds were allotted for black fungus patients in Gandhi Hospital and 250 beds in ENT Hospital, Hyderabad. Another 200 beds would be earmarked in Sarojini Devi Eye Hospital. The chief minister directed that the bed strength be increased to at least 1,500 — 1,100 in Hyderabad and 400 in districts. Besides, all the medicines used in the treatment of black fungus should be made available and orders be placed to that effect, he said. Approximately 400 cases of black fungus have been reported in Telangana so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-resumes-vaccination-after-10-days-101621969812319.html
26-05-2021||India||Tiruppur garment units in TN stay shut amid Covid surge||Chennai: Garment manufacturing factories in Tiruppur district, which are involved in exports to various global markets, stopped all operations after they turned into Covid-19 hotspots with scores of employees testing positive for the infection.The industry was exempted from the 15-day statewide lockdown, which came into force on May 10, and was allowed to function as a continuous process industry keeping in mind its export commitments. However, with over 100 workers getting infected between late April and May 14, the garment sector voluntarily decided to shut operations and authorities also simultaneously closed down six units in a period of three days.As Tamil Nadu extended the lockdown by another week on May 24 and intensified restrictions, it directed garment units to remain shut during this period. On May 20, Tiruppur health authorities held a meeting with garment factory owners and related associations and urged them to suspend operations during the week. “They cooperated and garment factories will continue to be closed this week,” a senior health official of Tiruppur said, preferring anonymity. “The garment units had become a cluster so we had to demarcate the specific localities as containment zones,” the official added. Even though garment manufacturers voluntarily decided to stop operations due to the rising cases, they raised concerns over the heavy losses the businesses suffered. “It is endangering the industry. In a month, we export to the tune of ₹2,500 crore and our loss during this shutdown will be tantamount to that,” M Raja Shanmugam, president, Tiruppur Exporters Association (TEA), said. “Our sampling process has to happen round-the-clock to satisfy the market which is design-driven. Without samples, we cannot get orders. We are going to be shut for a total of two weeks after which it will take time for operations to pick up. During the first wave, the entire world was affected but in the second wave, we are isolated while western markets have resumed normalcy, having inoculated their population. Due to the vaccine shortage, we haven’t been able to vaccinate our workers,” he added. Shanmugam also refuted authorities’ claims that Covid-19 guidelines were not enforced for workers inside garment units. “We have been following standard operating procedures (SOPs) since May 6 last year and there was no outbreak,” Shanmugam said, adding: “Social events before the lockdown are what caused the spread.” Tiruppur is home to about 15,000 garment units which are a mix of small and micro units without around 600,000 workers. “Most of them are migrant workers and they have left home fearing the lockdown,” Viyakula Mary, executive director of Tirupur-based SAVE (Social Awareness and Voluntary Education), which works for promotion of fair labour standards, said. In April, two days before their quarantine period after testing positive for Covid-19 ended, 16 migrant workers who were employed with a cotton mill left from Tiruppur to return to their native in Jharkhand. “When testing capacity is low and the turn-around time for results is late even for those infected, the government could have put up camps in the localities of garment units and regularly checked workers for symptoms,” Mary said. “There is no possibility for their isolation as at least five workers would live in a 10x10 room,” she added. District health authorities said that they are increasing testing and changing the treatment protocol. “The garment units were a hotspot and now since that is closed, our concern is to increase the number of samples tested, and we are starting basic medication for anyone who has any symptoms such as fever so that they don’t have to wait until they get tested or wait for results or a bed,” the health officials quoted above said. As cases dip in Chennai which has the highest caseload in Tamil Nadu, state health authorities worry about the surge in smaller districts and cities, including Tiruppur, Coimbatore, Erode, Trichy and Madurai. On Tuesday, Tiruppur reported 1,854 new cases and 25 deaths taking the total to 50,554 positive cases and 364 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tiruppur-garment-units-in-tn-stay-shut-amid-covid-surge-101621969751548.html
26-05-2021||India||No job, rations dwindling: Bengaluru slums hope lockdown is not extended||Bengaluru: Amit Mondal, a 45-year-old ragpicker, keeps his most precious possession – a bowl full of potatoes and plastic bags with rice and lentils – right next to his bed in a rented tin shed. Stuck without work since the beginning of the statewide lockdown, enforced amid surging Covid-19 cases in the second wave of the pandemic, he said he has been surviving on the ration kit provided by an NGO two weeks ago in the Bengali Basti slum near Hebbal.“I would make around ₹8,000 to ₹9,000 per month by selling dry waste. This month, I haven’t earned a penny and the ₹800 rent for this tin shed is still pending. I hope to pay it soon,” Mondal says, adding that his biggest worry was that the government might extend the lockdown.In the large migrant settlements in Bengaluru, out-of-work migrant settlers are using up the last bit of ration they got from NGOs and the little savings they had in the past few weeks. Most of them have pinned their hopes on returning to work soon.The Karnataka government has announced a ₹1,250-crore economic package for farmers, workers employed in the unorganised sector, auto and cab drivers, street vendors, among others. However, several migrant worker groups are not included in it.A large section of migrant workers in the settlements near Hebbal and Thubarahalli are Bengalis. Since West Bengal is not part of the ‘One Nation, One Ration’ card scheme, many of these slum dwellers are not eligible for ration under the Public Distribution System (PDS).Women in these two settlements work as domestic help in apartments towering over the slums. While in the initial days of the pandemic, they were given salaries, by the beginning of March, all of them had lost their jobs. “In the initial days, they asked us not to come but paid us. Later, they stopped paying us. This is our only income. We are now living on the ration given (by NGOs), even that will run out soon,” said Sharjeena Mondal, a slum dweller.Although she was fortunate enough to get the first dose of Covid vaccine while working in one of the apartments, she is unclear if she will still have her job if the lockdown is extended further.Having run out of all his savings, another migrant worker from the slum left for Yelanhanka, 11 km away, to collect garbage. “Someone told me that between 6 am and 10 am, police would not hit you. So, I took a chance. I got enough material to fetch me ₹500. I can’t sit at home as I have to take care of the family,” he said, requesting anonymity.But this was not the option for everyone. Amit Mondal said he was scared to venture out to pick garbage because of the stories he had heard about police attacking people, even those collecting garbage. “But it is hard. I sent my family to West Bengal a few weeks ago. They are stuck there. I’m unable to send any money and now they are talking about a cyclone,” said Mondal.Those who are able to go to work are also suffering as there is not enough work.Sukchand Sekh, a resident of Thubarahalli, works with Urban Company, an app-based service provider, in home cleaning services. “We have to register our temperature every morning on the app. We have our passes. But we are not getting enough work. People are scared. We are barely getting 20% of the work we used to earlier,” he said.While they are surviving with the rations and money they have, access to medical facilities remains a big concern. In Hebbal slum, at least two people have died so far. One of them, Hashim, a 48-year-old, had tested positive for Covid. While his neighbours managed to get him an oxygen cylinder, he was unable to find a hospital bed despite exhausting all his savings. He died nine days after getting infected. Even for his last rites, his neighbours had to pool in money.The biggest concern in both Thubarahalli and Hebbal slums was whether the government would extend the lockdown. The migrants believe they will scrape through and survive using the little ration and money they have, but if the lockdown is extended, they will be doomed. “The last lockdown was announced in advance, but this time, they are being extended without prior notice. This leaves migrant workers uncertain about the future,” said Rosey, an NGO staff working in Hebbal slum.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-job-rations-dwindling-b-luru-slums-hope-lockdown-is-not-extended-101621969750934.html
26-05-2021||India||Karnataka receives two interests on global tenders for Covid vaccine||Bengaluru: Karnataka has received two interests on its global tenders on Covid-19 vaccines, which could ease up the current shortage, according to senior government officials. KV Trilok Chandra, the health and family welfare commissioner, on Tuesday told HT that the two tender interests include Russia-developed Sputnik-V and Sputnik-Light. On whether the quantity has been specified, Chandra said, “Not yet, that we will be further processing it.” He said the tender processing will be completed in the “next couple of days”. The state government had floated global tenders for vaccines as a measure to mitigate the growing demand for inoculation and to insulate the state from another bout of Covid-19 in the imminent third wave, expected by around the end of the year. Dr CN Ashwath Narayan, deputy chief minister and head of Karnataka’s taskforce on Covid-19, in an interview to HT, said the state needed 65 million vaccine doses, adding that the government has so far placed orders for 30 million. He said the global tenders were floated after Pune-based Serum Institute of India and Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech were taking longer than expected to deliver the orders placed by Karnataka. The state has placed orders for 20 million doses of Covishield and 10 million doses of Covaxin. The state has also floated global tenders for Remdesivir, a drug used to treat critically ill Covid-19 patients. “By at least August, we should have completed at least a single dose for 25-30 million people. We can reach over 20 million by August and by December we can give everyone at least a single dose,” Narayan said. Karnataka has so far administered 12,310,317 vaccine doses, of which only 2,636,589 persons have received both doses, a coverage of just around 4%, according to government data. Only 64,156 doses were administered in Karnataka till 3.30 pm on Tuesday, according to the daily bulletin of the state health department. In Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) area, 2,395,207 doses have been administered, of which 559,008 persons have received both doses, according to data. Only 1,249 persons received the second dose in Bengaluru, data shows. “On a continuing basis, we are receiving vaccines from the Government of India. And whatever we are purchasing, we are getting those as well,” Chandra said. He added that for the 18-44 age group, slots will be opened up based on comfort levels. The vaccination in other districts, which have witnessed a surge in the past few days, has also been lower. “Yesterday, we had indicated to the districts that the targeted population, with whatever stock they have they should complete it. So by tomorrow (Wednesday) there should be an uptick in those (daily vaccination numbers),” Chandra said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-receives-two-interests-on-global-tenders-for-covid-vaccine-101621969691559.html
26-05-2021||India||Fire breaks out at Vizag’s HPCL unit, no casualties||Hyderabad A major fire broke out due to a blast in one of the refineries of Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Limited in Andhra Pradesh’s Visakhapatnam on Tuesday afternoon. A spokesman of HPCL said the fire broke out in one of the crude processing units of the plant at around 3 pm. “Safety measures and firefighting was activated immediately and fire has been extinguished,” he said. Stating that the cooling operations had been taken up, the spokesman said there were no casualties in the mishap and there was no risk to the public. “The other refinery operations are continuing as normal,” he added. Visakhapatnam deputy commissioner of police Aishwarya Rastogi told reporters that the blast took place at Unit-3 of the HPCL refinery in the old terminal building. “Immediately, five fire tenders from the premises were pressed into service and more fire tenders were being rushed,” he said, adding that the exact reasons for the fire mishap were yet to be ascertained. Thick plumes of smoke billowed in the areas surrounding the HPCL plant, including Gajuwaka and Malkapuram areas on the outskirts of Visakhapatnam. Soon after the fire broke out, warning sirens was sounded and all the employees of the refinery were evacuated from the plant. Though it was suspected that at least six workers were trapped in the unit that exploded, it was later found that all of them managed to come out and save their lives. The HPCL authorities rushed a few ambulances to the spot and extend medical help to any worker who might have received injuries. Andhra Pradesh home minister Mekathoti Sucharita expressed shock over the refinery incident and spoke to senior police officials in Visakhapatnam to find out the details. She said apart from five fire tenders within the HPCL premises, seven more fire tenders were pressed into service to douse the fire. “There are no casualties or injuries. There is no need for the people of Visakhapatnam to be panicky,” she said. In September 1997, the HPCL, Visakhapatnam witnessed the worst-ever fire accident killing 60 people and injuring 20 others. The fire started after an LPG pipeline leak caused an explosion in the storage area of the refinery. The blaze was still raging 12 hours after the explosion at around 6.30 am. About 70,000 people in the vicinity of the plant fled their homes to safer places. The local administration opened 10 relief camps in Visakhapatnam to accommodate the citizens till it was safe for them to return home. In August 2013, too, there was a similar fire accident in the HPCL, killing two persons and injuring another 30 people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fire-breaks-out-at-vizag-s-hpcl-unit-no-casualties-101621969570966.html
26-05-2021||India||Row over admin removing cloth from bodies at ghats in UP’s Prayagraj||A cleanliness drive by the administration near the cremation ghats where hundreds of bodies were buried recently has given rise to allegations by locals of a clean-up done to contain bad press. But officials have rubbished these claims and called it a routine exercise to keep the ghats clean.Multiple videos and photographs have emerged that purportedly show municipal workers pulling off yellow shrouds from unidentified graves at Shringverpur and other ghats in Prayagraj. Photos and videos of these shallow graves on the sand banks of Ganga and Yamuna rivers, and of dogs feeding on the bodies, had gone viral on social media, and made international headlines. Many of these bodies were suspected to be of people who had died of Covid, and whose family members didn’t have the money to cremate them.At Shringverpur, locals claimed, government officials had been inspecting the ghat for the last few days. “On Monday, dozens of labourers were engaged to remove the shrouds from the graves along with the bamboo stumps used for separation. These were collected along with other items scattered on the sand and burnt at another spot,” said a local on condition of anonymity.A similar exercise was carried out at Phaphamau Ghat too, locals said.Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Tuesday targeted the UP government by tweeting a cleaning video from Prayagraj. In an accompanying message in Hindi, she said, “No treatment was received when they were living. Many even did not receive the honour of proper last rites. They did not even find a place in government data. Now, even Ramnami (sacred shroud) are being snatched from the graves. What cleaning drive is this? This is disrespect — of the dead, of the religion, of humanity.”However, Prayagraj mayor Abhilasha Gupta denied these allegations, saying that the cleanliness drive at cremation ghats was an ongoing exercise.“The nagar nigam (municipal body) is carrying out a cleanliness drive at all cremation ghats, which come under its jurisdiction. Shrouds and other clothes were already blown away during a storm, which lashed the region a few days ago. Old blankets, pillows, sheets, water bottles and polythene found scattered at the ghats were removed,” the mayor said, adding that traders and residents have been asked to maintain cleanliness at the ghats and keep dustbins.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/row-over-admin-removing-cloth-from-bodies-at-ghats-in-up-s-prayagraj-101621969395832.html
26-05-2021||India||Active caseload decline as more recover in B’luru||Bengaluru: In the last 10 days, Bengaluru has recorded 88,772 new Covid-19 cases and 233,499 recoveries, reducing the active caseload in the city, according to state health department figures. In the same period, all 30 districts of Karnataka (including Bengaluru) have recorded 301,042 new infections and 477,192 recoveries, according to data compiled by Hindustan Times, based on the health bulletin of the state.The recovery rate in Bengaluru has increased from 64.85% to 78.82%, which is among the lowest in the state that has an average of nearly 80%, adding to worries of prolonging the duration of the second wave of infections.“Two things will tell us that we are probably over the peak; one is more number of recoveries compared to admission and the second is if the death rate is more because fatalities increase 14 days after the peak,” Dr N Ravi, neurovirologist and member of Karnataka’s technical advisory committee (TAC) on Covid-19, said.The number of recoveries has remained consistent in most parts of the state. Experts said Bengaluru and a few other districts peaked together and will see an earlier decline in numbers while the regions that had a contained number of cases so far, could now witness a surge.Karnataka recorded 22,758 new infections on Tuesday as against 38,224 recoveries, according to data from the state health department. The positivity rate has seen a decline and stood at 21.13%.Bengaluru recorded 6,243 new infections and 13,210 recoveries on Tuesday. However, the fatality rate reached a new high of 2.58% as 588 more deaths were recorded across Karnataka, including 350 in Bengaluru, data shows.Dr Ravi said the higher number of deaths in Bengaluru as compared to rest of the state was because cases peaked fastest in the city. He said current predictions indicate that by mid-June, Bengaluru should reach pre-surge levels. Most other districts in the state would see their numbers come down to pre-surge levels by the end of June, he added.Bidar and Kalaburagi, the two border districts in the north-eastern part of the state, have shown significant decline in new infections, data shows. The two districts, along with Bengaluru, were among the most impacted regions in the state.There were 1,260 new infections in Belagavi, 1,285 in Hassan, 2,241 in Mysuru and 1,312 in Tumakuru, according to the daily bulletin.However, several districts have recorded a higher death toll, data shows.There were 24 deaths in Belagavi, 20 in Ballari, 19 in Shivamogga, 17 in Mysuru, 15 in Uttara Kannada, 14 in Tumakuru, 12 in Dharwad, and 11 each in Bengaluru Rural, Kalaburagi and Hassan, according to the state health bulletin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/active-caseload-decline-as-more-recover-in-bluru-101621969510976.html
26-05-2021||India||MP Tejasvi Surya calls off paid vaccination drive amid backlash||Bengaluru At a time when Karnataka has been facing a severe shortage of Covid-19 vaccines, a mass paid vaccination programme initiated by South Bengaluru MP Tejasvi Surya was called off after facing severe backlashes from all quarters on Tuesday.That Surya had access to Covid-19 vaccines while government hospitals did not, attracted criticism from residents and experts alike. Many took to social media to express their displeasure, blaming that the BS Yediyurappa-led administration failed to ensure supplies to public hospitals while allowing private interests to prevail.“Please note that there will be no vaccination drive at Shalini Grounds today. A link to register for appointments on the hospital portal will soon be updated. Please circulate this message and ensure the right message reaches the public. Thank you,” the office of Surya tweeted on Tuesday.Surya could not be reached for a comment. His office, however, told HT that several private hospitals in Bengaluru have been conducting similar vaccination drives.“We are partnering with a few small private hospitals and nursing homes, helping them conduct vaccination drives in order to vaccinate maximum number of people at a faster pace. We’re partnering with smaller private hospitals and nursing homes with the intention of reaching out to middle-class families of Bengaluru South who may not always visit a large corporate chain and are more familiar with the neighbourhood nursing homes,” the office of Surya told HT on Tuesday.It added the MP’s office was also working with the government to ensure steady supply of vaccines.The controversy came at a time when Bengaluru and the rest of Karnataka, which are among the worst Covid-19 impacted regions in the country, have been facing acute shortage of vaccines. Several vaccination centres across the state, and particularly in Bengaluru, were unable to inoculate people citing lack of stocks for nearly a week.Meanwhile, Dr K Sudhakar, Karnataka’s minister for health, family welfare and medical education, said the state received 125,000 doses of Bharat Biotech-manufactured Covaxin on Tuesday under the central quote. “Total Covaxin doses received under Central quota is 12,91,280. Total Covaxin doses received under direct purchase is 1,44,170,” Sudhakar said in a Twitter post.On Monday, Karnataka received 300,000 doses of Covishield vaccine from Pune-based Serum Institute of India, taking the total Centre’s allocation to the state to 10.5 million. In addition, Karnataka has also procured 1.35 million doses through direct purchase, officials said.“Daily vaccine production capacity: 28.3 lakh doses. Daily vaccines being administered: 12-13 lakh. Only 43%. Where are the remaining doses? Not getting produced? If so, what is the Govt doing? If yes, they are busy producing positive perception,” Krishna Byre Gowda, former minister and Congress legislator from Byatrayanapura in Bengaluru, said.Karnataka has so far administered 12,310,317 vaccine doses, of which only 2,636,589 persons have received both doses, a coverage of just around 4%, according to government data. Only 64156 doses were administered in Karnataka till 3.30 pm on Tuesday, according to the daily bulletin of the state health department.In Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) area, 2,395,207 doses have been administered, of which 559,008 persons have received both doses, according to data. Only 1249 persons received the second dose in Bengaluru, data shows.Several Bengaluru residents complained of having to wait for hours at crowded vaccination centres and return home without getting inoculated. One of the problems they cited was difficulties to secure a slot on CoWIN app, which the Karnataka government was trying to circumvent by building an interface. However, the proposal was yet to see any progress, leaving much of the state to depend on CoWIN app as confirmation of registration and appointment are a must to get a jab. More so, it also acts as a pass that allows movement of people during the statewide lockdown, which has been extended till June 7.The state government has prioritised the second dose for those above 45 years of age. The vaccination drive for an estimated 35 million people in 18-44 age group has been initiated and called off at least thrice since May 1, with only a handful of private hospitals, which managed to procure vaccines on their own, continue to administer doses to this age group.In Karnataka, the daily infection count has declined over the past few days, but experts said it was too early to celebrate pointing at the fatality rate still being above 2% consistently for the last three days. The state like other parts of the country was relying on vaccination in its battle against the pandemic.On Tuesday, Karnataka reported 22,758 fresh Covid-19 cases, taking the active caseload to 424,381. Bengaluru accounted for 6,243 new infections, which pushed its active caseload to 219,551. At least 26,399 people have died due to Covid-19 in the state so far, including 588 in the 24 hours on Monday. Bengaluru accounted for 350 new fatalities on Tuesday, according to health department data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mp-tejasvi-surya-calls-off-paid-vaccination-drive-amid-backlash-101621969452165.html
26-05-2021||India||Row over admin removing cloth from bodies at ghats in U.P’s Prayagraj||Prayagraj: A cleanliness drive by the administration near the cremation ghats where hundreds of bodies were buried recently has given rise to allegations by locals of a clean-up done to contain bad press. But officials have rubbished these claims and called it a routine exercise to keep the ghats clean. Multiple videos and photographs have emerged that purportedly show municipal workers pulling off yellow shrouds from unidentified graves at Shringverpur and other ghats in Prayagraj. Photos and videos of these shallow graves on the sand banks of Ganga and Yamuna rivers, and of dogs feeding on the bodies, had gone viral on social media, and made international headlines. Many of these bodies were suspected to be of people who had died of Covid, and whose family members didn’t have the money to cremate them. At Shringverpur, locals claimed, government officials had been inspecting the ghat for the last few days. “On Monday, dozens of labourers were engaged to remove the shrouds from the graves along with the bamboo stumps used for separation. These were collected along with other items scattered on the sand and burnt at another spot,” said a local on condition of anonymity. A similar exercise was carried out at Phaphamau Ghat too, locals said. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Tuesday targeted the UP government by tweeting a cleaning video from Prayagraj. In an accompanying message in Hindi, she said, “No treatment was received when they were living. Many even did not receive the honour of proper last rites. They did not even find a place in government data. Now, even Ramnami (sacred shroud) are being snatched from the graves. What cleaning drive is this? This is disrespect — of the dead, of the religion, of humanity.” However, Prayagraj mayor Abhilasha Gupta denied these allegations, saying that the cleanliness drive at cremation ghats was an ongoing exercise. “The nagar nigam (municipal body) is carrying out a cleanliness drive at all cremation ghats, which come under its jurisdiction. Shrouds and other clothes were already blown away during a storm, which lashed the region a few days ago. Old blankets, pillows, sheets, water bottles and polythene found scattered at the ghats were removed,” the mayor said, adding that traders and residents have been asked to maintain cleanliness at the ghats and keep dustbins.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/row-over-admin-removing-cloth-from-bodies-at-ghats-in-u-p-s-prayagraj-101621969391384.html
26-05-2021||India||WHO nod likely by September: Bharat Biotech||Bharat Biotech on Tuesday announced that it applied to WHO (World Health Organisation) for emergency use listing of its Coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccine, Covaxin, and expected approvals anytime between July and September, amidst rising concerns that the lack of such recognition could come in the way of international travel by those who received this vaccine.“Application for emergency use listing (EUL) has been submitted to WHO-Geneva, regulatory approvals are expected Jul-Sept 2021,” the Hyderabad-based company said in a statement about its inactivated whole virion Covid-19 vaccine.As the world opens up after the pandemic, it is likely that countries will put in place restrictions on incoming travellers. In some cases, this may mean mandating vaccination, by a vaccine recognised either by that country or WHO.According to Bharat Biotech, regulatory approvals for Covaxin are currently in process in at least 60 countries, including the US, Brazil, and Hungary.So far, the company has obtained emergency use authorisations in 13 countries including Mexico, Philippines, Iran, Paraguay, Guatemala, Nicaragua, Guyana, Venezuela, Botswana, and Zimbabwe.In the second interim analysis of the phase 3 clinical trial results that the company released last month, Covaxin has been found to have an efficacy of about 78%.The company’s vaccine has also been found to be effective against mutant strains of the virus.“This is something where we’re still gaining data on a daily basis. But the most recent data, was looking at convalescent Sera of Covid-19 cases and people who received the vaccine used in India, the Covaxin. It was found to neutralise the 617 variants,” Dr Anthony Fauci, prominent American infectious disease expert, had earlier said.The company is yet to publish the final results of its trial.“Most countries recommend vaccinations against Covid-19. Unvaccinated travellers can travel with negative RT-PCR tests prior to travel, in the absence of any other country specific travel restrictions,” the company added in its statement.Bharat Biotech announced last week that it would scale up Covaxin production to up to 1 billion doses a year by the last quarter of this year.Covaxin was developed with seed strains received from the National Institute of Virology, and the phase 3 clinical trial was co-funded by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).Bharat Biotech is selling a vaccine dose for ₹400 to state governments, and ₹1200 to private hospitals. Pricing for international markets and supplies to government’s under emergency use authorizations have been established between $15 and $ 20 per vaccine dose. Like many others, Covaxin is a two-dose vaccine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/whonod-likely-by-september-bharat-biotech-101621968450689.html
26-05-2021||India||200 million vaccine doses administered in India||The total number of doses of vaccines administered across India crossed 200 million on Wednesday, a significant landmark for the country’s inoculation campaign.Till 7pm on Wednesday, India has administered 200,494,991 doses of the vaccine to nearly 157 million (156,999,310) people across the country, according to Union health ministry data. Of these, 113.5 million people have received just the first dose, while another 43.5 million people have been fully vaccinated, data shows.Of the nearly 200.5 million doses administered till Wednesday, 20% were administered to health care workers and frontline workers, 6.4% to the general public in the 18-44-year age group and the remaining 73.6% of shots were given to those above the age of 45 years.A total of 75.5 million were given to those above the age of 60 years (57.1 first doses, and 18.4 second shots), while 72 million shots were administered to those between the age of 45 and 60 years (62 million first shots and 10 million second shots). These categories were followed by 23.5 million doses to frontline workers (15.2 first shots, 8.4 second doses) and 16.5 doses (9.8 first shots, 6.7 second) to health care workers in the country.Those in the 18-44 years age group have received 12.9 million doses till Wednesday night, all of which were first shots, data shows||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/200-million-vaccine-doses-administered-in-india-101621968424709.html
26-05-2021||India||SC denies stay on TMC leaders’ house arrest in Narada case||The Supreme Court on Tuesday refused to interfere with a high court order putting two Trinamool Congress (TMC) ministers and a prominent MLA under house arrest in connection with the 2016 Narada sting tapes, stating that their personal liberty and protests by chief minister Mamata Banerjee against their arrests by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) could not be conflated.The bench of justices Vineet Saran and BR Gavai found no rationale in a CBI petition against Calcutta high court’s May 21 order of sending the accused to house-arrest and to treat it as judicial custody. It pointed out that if the agency was aggrieved by West Bengal CM Banerjee and the state law minister Moloy Ghatak’s protests, it should rather proceed against them under suitable provisions of the law, instead of citing their demonstrations as grounds to cancel the relief granted to the TMC leaders.“We don’t appreciate such dharnas etc. But if a CM or a law minister is taking law into their own hands, should the accused be made to suffer? You can proceed against the persons who tried to take the law into their own hands... But we wouldn’t like to mix the liberty of a citizen with some acts of politicians. You can take actions available in law against the politicians but we won’t comprise the liberty of the citizens,” the bench told solicitor general Tushar Mehta, who appeared for CBI.Mehta sought to emphasise that the rule of law was a casualty in the state as the CM sat on a protest inside the CBI office on May 17 after the TMC leaders were arrested, while the law minister camped at the CBI court with thousands of supporters. This prevented the CBI prosecutor to go to the court to oppose their bail, said the SG, adding the issue involved was not just of bail or house arrest but of a state administration interfering with the course of justice.But the bench was categorical that the CBI required to make up its mind whether it was challenging the house arrest order or not, because the issue about the CM’s protest must be pursued by in appropriate proceedings under the available provisions of law.“In a bail matter, how far can we go? Liberty of a person’s has to be seen as the first thing. Conduct of others has to be seen in appropriate proceedings as and when they are initiated...We don’t support the action of the CM or the law minister but the issues are different here. Nobody is above the law. You should take action against them if you think they have taken the law into their own hands,” the bench told the SG.Mehta, on his part, said that the May 17 order of granting bail TMC leaders Madan Mitra, Subrata Mukherjee and Firhad Hakim was vitiated since there was pressure mounted on the court by protests, and therefore, the CBI wanted the matter to be taken out of the state.The bench, however, replied: “We don’t feel that out judiciary, including the district judiciary, is affected by mob. We can’t demoralise our judiciary by transferring the matter like this...if we transfer the matter outside the high court, we will be demoralising the high court. Why should the high court be deprived of hearing the matter. Five judges are now hearing it. They are also constitutional courts and we will put them in the same pedestal as this court.”While the SG questioned how and why the high court chose to send the TMC leaders to house arrest three days after staying their release on bail, the bench said it was in turn amused by how the high court stayed their bail on May 17 after a late evening hearing without even granting audience to the accused.“In fact, the high court acted in an extraordinary manner at your instance when the matter was already pending before the CBI court. And the bail was stayed without even hearing the accused. This court has seen it many times when special benches are set up for ensuring the liberty of the accused. We are seeing it for the first time when a special bench was constituted to take away the liberty of someone,” the bench exclaimed.Noting that the arrests were made in the case after a charge sheet had already been filed, the bench asked the SG: “Who are in a position to influence the witnesses more? Those against whom the charge sheet has been filed, or those against whom the charge sheet hasn’t been filed? There are two sets of accused here. Among them, who are in a better position to influence the witnesses.”Mehta said he would not want to respond since it was not a legal question.Charge sheets have not been filed in the case against Mamata’s former close aides Mukul Roy and Suvendhu Adhikari, both of whom later joined the BJP. Mamata had a cliffhanger in Nandigram to the BJP’s Adhikari in the recent assembly polls.The court then gave two choices to Mehta; either withdraw the petition and go back to the Calcutta high court, where a five-judge bench has been constituted to all the issues relating to this case, or get an order on his petition from the top court which will have to hear the lawyers for the accused and the state.Senior advocate Abhishek Manu Singhvi, who was appearing for Hakim, the urban development minister in the state government, and Mukherjee, who holds the panchayati raj and rural affairs portfolios. Senior lawyer Sidharth Luthra appeared for Mitra, who is an MLA while senior counsel Vikas Singh was appearing for the state.With the writing on the wall, the SG opted to withdraw the petition with liberty to raise all contentions before the five-judge bench of the high court, which is expected to take up the matter on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-denies-stay-on-tmc-leaders-house-arrest-in-narada-case-101621969152823.html
26-05-2021||India||Manhunt in Antigua as Choksi goes missing||New Delhi: Police in Antigua have launched a search for fugitive diamantaire Mehul Choksi, who went missing in the tiny Caribbean island on Sundayevening after heading to a popular local restaurant for dinner, according to his lawyer and a missing persons notice issued by the country’s Royal Police Force. Indian agencies have also alerted Interpol for more information about his whereabouts, people familiar with the developments said. Reports in the Antiguan media on Monday suggested that Choksi may have fled to Cuba fearing his extradition to India, but his lawyer Vijay Aggarwal denied the contention, and Indian agencies said they had no such information. Prime Minister Gaston Browne, in a video posted by antiguanewsroom.com, said in the Antiguan parliament on Tuesday that there is no “reliable information to date to confirm that he has fled the country. It is likely that he may still be here and law enforcement is utilizing all efforts, including all intelligence to locate him.” He added that in case it is true that Choksi has indeed fled the country, “we could get judgement in absentia and we will revoke his citizenship in due course.” Other than the extradition proceedings, Choksi is also fighting another case on the revocation of his citzenship in the island nation. Browne said that “if indeed, Mr Choksi has fled the country as speculated, it would have been by boat, because no aircraft with any flight plan (to Cuba) and any passenger by the name of Mehul Choksi would have been found by the authority,” adding that “no plane would have landed in this country illegally.”  “Mehul Choksi is missing. His family members are worried and anxious and had called me to discuss. Antigua police are investigating. Family is in the dark and worried about his safety,” his lawyer Aggarwal saidChoksi, who has sought refuge in Antigua after allegedly cheating Punjab National Bank of ₹13,578 crore along with his nephew Nirav Modi, and fleeing India in 2018, left his home on Monday “to go for dinner at a well-known restaurant in the southern part of the island and was never seen again”, according to a report in the antiguanewsroom.com. Modi is facing extradition proceedings in the UK. The diamond merchant’s vehicle was found at Jolly Harbour, a popular nightlife hub on the 280 square km island with a population of less than 100,000 that is famous for its cricketing antecedents -- it is the home of talismanic West Indies batsman Sir Vivian Richards and iconic fast bowler Andy Roberts. Antigua famously has 365 beaches, “one for every day of the year”, according to its tourism tagline.Police in Antigua have sought public assistance for information on Choksi, who, according to a police statement, was last seen at about 5:15pm (local time) before leaving home in a car, which has since been recovered. After an official complaint was lodged at the Johnson Point Police Station, the police launched a manhunt. “Based on additional information received, the police have conducted numerous searches but to no avail,” the local police said in the statement on Monday. Giving information on his physical attributes for identification purpose, the police statement asked people to inform the Johnson Point Police Station or the Criminal Investigations Department (CID) if they had any information on his whereabouts. “Mehul is described as being of Indian descent, brown in complexion, five feet six inches (5’ 6”) in height, heavily built with a balding hairline. The police are seeking the assistance of the public in knowing the whereabouts of Mr Choksi,” the police statement said. A report in a Caribbean news website Associates Times, quoting a person named Govin, a purported close aide of Choksi, claimed that Choksi had “left the country a few days ago. and is currently living in a safe house in based in Cuba”. The claim, however, appeared at odds with the police’s version of events, and of his last sighting.Indian officials that HT spoke to, both in Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and Enforcement Directorate (ED) said they are in touch with concerned Antiguan officials through the ministry of external affairs (MEA), and were confident that Choksi would be traced soon. India has been pursuing Choksi’s extradition in Antigua since 2018, and an Interpol red notice is pending against him. In a charge sheet filed last year, ED alleged that Choksi did not just defraud Indian banks, but customers and lenders in Dubai and the US as well. His assets worth ₹2,500 crore have already been attached. As reported by HT in March, Antigua & Barbuda has initiated the process to cancel the Choksi’s citizenship granted under the Caribbean nation’s Citizenship by Investment Programme (CIP) in November 2017. He has challenged the move in a court in the Caribbean nation. India has an extradition arrangement with Antigua and Barbuda. As per the provisions of the Extradition Act, 1993 of Antigua and Barbuda, a fugitive may be extradited to a designated Commonwealth country or a state with which there are general or special arrangements or a bilateral treaty. Choksi’s extradition is pending since 2018 in court there, which he has challenged. People familiar with his citizenship said that Choksi has approached the high court there against Antigua’s process to revoke his citizenship, but the whole legal battle may take some time. His nephew Nirav Modi is currently lodged in a UK jail. The Westminster’s court in London, in February this year, ordered his extradition, which he has challenged in the UK high court. Sherbir Panag, Partner at Panag and Babu and an international legal expert on white collar crimes, said – “Assuming that Mehul Choksi has left the country after he felt that India’s diplomatic efforts to bring him back here are working, he will try to place himself in a jurisdiction which doesn’t have extradition arrangement/treaty with India”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manhunt-in-antigua-as-choksi-goes-missing-101621968970925.html
26-05-2021||India||Deadline ends; aim to comply: FB||The deadline for social media companies to put in place new mechanisms to comply with controversial new rules announced in February ended on Tuesday, and at least one company, Facebook, saying it was working on the new rules but that “a few of the issues need more engagement with the government”. The rules pertain to new guidelines notified under the Information Technology Act on February 25, giving digital companies three months to implement new content moderation mechanisms, appoint new officers who will be liable for compliance, and adopt features such as traceability of messages and voluntary user verification.Facebook on Tuesday said it was working on the new rules, but indicated there were unresolved issues. “We aim to comply with the provisions of the IT [Information Technology] rules and continue to discuss a few of the issues which need more engagement with the government. Pursuant to the IT Rules, we are working to implement operational processes and improve efficiencies,” a Facebook spokesperson said.Twitter and WhatsApp did not respond to requests for a comment. Google, which recently issued an advertisement to hire a compliance officer, too did not respond to HT on Tuesday. A ministry official said that the rules had been notified and no further discussions on those were happening. “There are always adjacent issues, these may be discussed, but the intermediary guidelines have already come into force,” this person said, asking not to be named. On Monday, electronics and information technology ministry officials warned of stern action if the companies did not adhere to the deadline. This person said that none of the companies have informed the government of the compliance or shared details of the officers they were meant to have appointed on their websites.A ministry representative did not elaborate on what actions the government was considering.The new policy also includes bringing digital news publishers under the ambit of Section 69(A) of the Information Technology (IT) Act. The provision empowers the government to order the blocking of access to content that is considered a threat to public order. An officer, who will head an inter-ministerial committee at the apex of the three-tier self-regulatory system, can also issue this order under emergency circumstances where the companies will not be given a chance for explanation. The committee will have to meet within 48 hours to ratify the emergency block.The news media publishers and over the top (or streaming) such as Netflix and Hotstar, will fall under the ambit of the ministry of information and broadcasting. The ministry, under the guidelines, has sought details regarding the platforms but the form to furnish these has not been made available yet. The rules also mandate increased due diligence by social media companies and data sharing, such as information about the first originator, with enforcement agencies. They define significant social media intermediaries as platforms that have five million users or more.Experts said social media companies will not be banned if they do not meet the deadline. “That (ban) will not happen, as it is not what the provisions say,” said to NS Nappinai, Supreme Court lawyer and founder of Cyber Saathi. “Moreover, the platforms seem to be under the misapprehension that only by appointing a compliance officer they will become subject to India’s jurisdiction. They are already subject to the country’s laws and are bound to comply with them,” she said.Nappinai added that there is no reason to assume that there will be an abuse of the guidelines. “The companies had three months to segregate what’s possible to comply with and what they may need additional time for,” she said. “To ask for the appointment of a compliance officer or grievance redressal officer is not too much to expect in a country of seven million users,” she said.Internet Freedom Foundation trustee Apar Gupta said that the most significant impact of the guidelines will be on instant messaging applications. “That will require a companywide policy change,” Gupta said. “It will also be interesting to see what kind of immediate prosecution the ministry opts for, with the most tangible form emerging as the loss of intermediary status for the company. These new guidelines significantly undermine encryption and privacy.” Under part four of the guidelines, the intermediaries are required to appoint compliance officers, “responsible for ensuring compliance with the Act and rules” and be “liable in any proceedings relating to any relevant third-party information, data or communication link made available or hosted by that intermediary where he fails to ensure that such intermediary observes due diligence while discharging its duties under the Act”.Intermediaries are also required to appoint nodal contact persons for 24x7 coordination with law enforcement agencies and resident grievance officers.India-made Twitter alternative Koo announced it had complied with the new requirements and appointed Rahul Satyakam as the resident grievance officer. The company has also appointed a chief compliance officer and nodal contact officer, and said it was only naming the grievance officer in keeping with the legal requirement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/deadline-ends-aim-to-comply-fb-101621967651703.html
26-05-2021||India||Lunar eclipse today: Where to watch in India||A lunar eclipse on Wednesday will be visible for a short span of time from the north-eastern parts of India, West Bengal, Odisha and the Andaman and Nicobar Islands, the Ministry of Earth Sciences has informed.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has said that the lunar eclipse will also be visible in the regions covering South America, North America, Asia, Australia, Antarctica, the Pacific Ocean and the Indian Ocean.A lunar eclipse occurs on a full moon day when the earth comes in between the sun and the moon and when all the three objects are aligned. A total lunar eclipse occurs when the entire moon comes under the umbral shadow of the earth.Let's know at what time and where the lunar eclipse can be seen in India:-- The partial phase of the eclipse will begin at 3.15 pm and end at 6.23 pm in India, while the total phase will begin at 4.39 pm and end at 4.58 pm.--According to the IMD, the eclipse from Port Blair can be seen from 5.38 pm and viewed for 45 minutes. The lunar eclipse can be seen in West Bengal's Puri and Malda at 6.21pm, but only for two minutes.--In India, just after the moonrise, the partial phase of the eclipse will end in the northeastern parts of India (except Sikkim), parts of West Bengal, some parts of Odisha, Andaman and Nicobar Islands, according to IMD.--The total duration of the eclipse is 5 hours, 2 minutes. The total duration of the partial phases is 2 hours, 53 minutes. The duration of the full eclipse is 14 minutes.--During the total lunar eclipse, the moon will be much below the eastern horizon, therefore, people cannot see the beginning of this eclipse from India. People living in eastern India can see the concluding phase of the lunar eclipse which will be seen very close to the eastern horizon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lunar-eclipse-on-may-26-where-to-watch-in-india-101621918535906.html
26-05-2021||Today's||In a pandemic, the power of the rumour||On average, in 2019, Indian internet users spent close to 2.5 hours on social media everyday. Average usage went up to 4.3 hours during the first phase of the 2020 nationwide lockdown, later stabilising to 3.3 hours by the end of June 2020. For many Indians, who were isolated and confined to their homes, social media outlets such as WhatsApp and Facebook enabled convenient and seamless access and dissemination of health information, including information related to curbs and restrictions.Yet, health information, specifically on social media, is often published, shared, and re-shared, irrespective of its veracity, frequently leading to the spread of misinformation and rumours under the guise of truth. Covid-19 is the first pandemic in history where technology and social media are being used on a massive scale, and widespread dissemination of health rumours has been rampant, prompting the World Health Organization (WHO) to also call the pandemic an “infodemic”.Also Read | A tale of two infectionsHealth-related rumours spread fast and not only hinder individual display of desirable health behaviour but also prevent the seamless implementation of institutional efforts to manage public health. To be sure, a pandemic gives rise to confusion, ambiguity, anxiety, and uncertainty, which, in turn, may lead to increased transmission of health rumours. The accuracy, veracity, and perceived credibility of the source are ignored, more so on social media where users are already cognitively overloaded with too much information.As such, studies find that during a crisis (e.g. natural disaster, terror attack, global pandemic), sharing rumours works like a coping mechanism. People draw a false sense of relief, such that anxiety or fears associated with the uncertain situation is momentarily reduced. But in the long-run, during a pandemic, prior research finds that health rumours, exchanged in a community, can instil fear.One such fear is about the Covid-19 vaccine. Vaccine hesitancy, in 2019, was named as one of the top 10 threats to global health by WHO. This was announced after the global uptake rates for the measles, mumps, and rubella vaccine slipped to 85%, significantly lower the required target of 95%. Further, the presence of anti-vaxxers, a cult across the world that shares the belief that vaccines cause more harm than good, and opposes vaccines for a variety of reasons including religious beliefs, indicates that these ideas exist even though there is evidence to the contrary. In the United States (US), half the population is now fully vaccinated. But survey-based findings reveal that close to 25% refuses to get jabbed altogether.While India’s core crisis today is vaccine shortage, and data on hesitancy is inadequate, it would be a mistake to ignore the role of the latter as supplies shore up. This stems from distrust in health institutions and experts, misunderstanding related to herd immunity, fear related to rapid vaccine development, and new side effects, supplemented and reinforced by conspiracy theories and misinformation circulating widely on social media.Technology-enabled rumour dissemination can conflict with public health and safety interventions during a pandemic. Since the internet and social media are important sources for health information, governments and health agencies must establish an engaging web presence to debunk misinformation and fill the knowledge gaps. Some of this is already happening, but a lot more is desirable.Engaging celebrities and social media influencers can motivate people who are less eager to take the vaccine. To be sure, social media platforms such as Facebook, YouTube, and WhatsApp (to name a few) have been proactive in adding features that allow users to access verified information, but they must double their efforts in flagging misinformation and rapidly removing heath rumours.If the government is to be believed, India’s current crisis of shortage will ease in the next few months. Then, the challenge will not be in supply, but ensuring that citizens understand that a vaccine is the most effective protective mechanism that is currently known and available. Putting the rumours to rest is a national imperative.Payal S Kapoor is associate professor (Marketing), FORE School of Management, New DelhiThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/in-a-pandemic-the-power-of-the-rumour-101622024234451.html
26-05-2021||Today's||As India-US ties confront new realities, Jaishankar’s visit is critical||External affairs minister S Jaishankar’s visit to the United States (US) — his official meetings in Washington kick off on May 27— comes at a time when India is grappling with a debilitating second wave of Covid-19. Though the situation on the ground seems to be stabilising gradually, the long-term challenge of vaccinating a huge population still looms large. It’s natural, therefore, that a lot of focus during this visit is on health-related bilateral engagement.But this is an important visit in its own right, as the first visit at the highest echelons from the Indian side to the US after the election of Joe Biden. It would have happened much earlier, had it not been for Covid-19 first consuming the US and then India. Bilateral ties, however, have continued to deepen with the visits of Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin and climate envoy John Kerry to India, and the US President himself convening the Quad leaders summit within the first 100 days of the new administration.Jaishankar’s visit will seek to review the entire gamut issues shaping India-US bilateral relationship, but the realities of the pandemic in India will ensure that issues related to health cooperation will get maximum coverage. After an initial delay, the Biden administration has been very vocal in its support for India in managing the second wave. The US President himself underlined his nation’s resolve in helping India at a critical juncture, reciprocating the help India had provided to the US during its severe first wave. “Just as India sent assistance to the United States as our hospitals were strained early in the pandemic, we are determined to help India in its time of need.”Also Read | US Congressional committee passes resolution to express solidarity with IndiaThis has resulted in the US mobilising around $100 million worth of Covid-19 relief assistance, with extensive help from the US corporate sector and the US Congress. This assistance has included oxygen plants, concentrators, critical medicines as well as raw materials for vaccine manufacturer Serum Institute of India (SII).Given India’s current requirements, the issue of vaccine procurement is likely to hog the limelight as Jaishankar will seek support from various stakeholders, including the US government, for India’s efforts towards procuring and producing these critical vaccines. As India takes these talks forward, it will be hoping to get full support from the Biden administration that has announced it will distribute 80 million vaccines from its stockpile to countries in need. While some of it will come to India, the broader issue for India will be to ensure vaccine production in India.Domestic political debate in India is heating up and state governments want the Centre to respond fast in ensuring smooth supply of vaccines. India’s ambassador to the US, Taranjit Sandhu, has been engaging leading vaccine manufacturers of the US — Pfizer, Johnson and Johnson and Moderna — to see if local production in India in partnership with Indian entities can be kickstarted.Jaishankar will be taking this forward during his visit as pharma majors remain reluctant to relinquish their proprietary knowledge and decrease their profit margins. What will be needed is a long-term road map of bilateral cooperation in the health sector as issues emanating from Covid-19 and its aftermath are unlikely to go away anytime soon.This issue also goes beyond the bilateral. The two nations have to work at the global level. The US has backed India’s proposal for a TRIPS waiver at the World Trade Organisation that New Delhi argues is the only way to ensure enough vaccine production to tackle the challenge of vaccinating the poorest nations of the world. Global supply chains will have to respond to the growing global demand for vaccines and in a global pandemic, the fundamental reality remains that no one is secure until everyone is.Also Read | Jaishankar, Guterres discuss Covid-19 vaccines, AfghanistanIn India’s immediate vicinity, the country’s decision to halt exports of vaccines is also changing health and geopolitical equations. As China steps up its vaccine diplomacy, nations in South Asia and the wider Indo-Pacific will have little choice but to embrace Chinese vaccines despite their questionable track record. India’s partners such as the US will have to pitch in to help nations in managing their responses to Covid-19. Some of this has already begun to happen with Australia, Japan and the US trying to help South Asian nations by providing emergency relief funds and helping with vaccine procurement. But much more will have to be done in the coming months if the pandemic has to be successfully contained.This was, after all, reflected in the agenda of the Quad leaders summit earlier this year which sought to expand the vaccination capacity of India to produce one billion doses by 2022 with US and Japanese funds and Australian logistics. As Jaishankar engages the US leadership on regional security issues, it will be critical for him to underscore that a robust response to the present crisis by India’s Quad partners will go a long way in shoring up the credibility of the platform.The debate around vaccines and health today implicates almost all major strands of the India-US partnership – trade and global supply chains, the Indo-Pacific strategic environment as well as the future of multilateralism. In his interactions with officials and diplomats from India to the United Nations, Jaishankar has expressed confidence that the country will continue to shape the “big debates of our times.” He is right but this will need the support of India’s partners. His visit to the US this week can go a long way in shaping the response of one of New Delhi’s key partners.Harsh V Pant is professor, King’s College, London, and director of studies, Observer Research Foundation, New DelhiThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/as-india-us-ties-confront-new-realities-jaishankar-s-visit-is-critical-101622021234124.html
26-05-2021||Today's||Scientifically Speaking | Decoding the evolution of coronaviruses||Coronaviruses infect many animals. Bats are often singled out as culprits in spillover events, but they are not unique. In fact, humans have transmitted Sars-CoV-2, the coronavirus that causes Covid-19, to animals like cats, minks, and gorillas.Viruses don’t always respect species boundaries. They recognise receptors to attach to and cells to infect. There are currently around 220 viruses known to infect humans, of which seven are coronaviruses.Coronaviruses have been responsible for two epidemics and one pandemic in the last two decades. In recent months, scientists have discovered two more novel coronaviruses that infect humans. There are certainly many more. The simple fact is the more we search in the “virosphere”, the more viruses we will find.Before Sars, there was limited interested in coronaviruses. A perspective in Science in 2003 called coronavirology one of the “backwaters” of virology. After Sars, when scientists searched intensively for new coronaviruses, they found two that cause common cold-like infections.Also Read | A tale of two infectionsThere are many reasons we will find more viruses.First, the molecular tools of virology are relatively new, and sampling of animals has traditionally been limited to species and classes of viruses with greatest pandemic potential. Second, some spillover events from animals may be relatively recent. Third, some of viruses may be infecting people but escaping detection because they are not causing disease. Others may cause disease, but may be self-limited to non-specific symptoms of pneumonia or gastrointestinal problems that get better within a few days.In COVID-19: Separating Fact from Fiction, I mention the various interactions between viruses and humans. There are millions of viruses that don’t infect human cells at all. There are a few viruses that infect people in spillover events, but don’t spread further. There are others can infect people but do not cause recognisable disease. Yet others that result in disease may not have outward transmission to other people. Viruses that transmit from one person to another might stop spreading if they don’t transmit well.Of course, of greatest concern are viruses like Sars-CoV-2 that transmit well and cause disease. These viruses cause significant disease and death and they threaten to remain in human populations.A preprint on MedRxiv describes a pig coronavirus found in blood samples of children in Haiti who had acute fever of unknown cause a few years ago. By sampling the genome and comparing with other known viruses, researchers found that these infections were the result of at least two past spillover events. The causative coronavirus belongs to a family that was not thought to typically infect humans. It is currently unknown whether the virus caused the fever in the children or whether it was simply coincidentally present. We also don’t know how prevalent this coronavirus is in broader populations.Another description of a novel coronavirus is in an article in Clinical Infectious Diseases. Eight samples collected from children hospitalised in rural Malaysia with pneumonia many years ago turned up a canine coronavirus. This virus seems to have sequences that are similar to dog coronaviruses but also to coronaviruses found in cats and pigs.Sars-CoV-2 is also a virus that seem to have different genetic sequences that are similar to coronaviruses from different animals. What the discovery of the hybrid canine coronavirus in Malaysia reinforces is that recombination events, which result in new viruses that are made up of parts of other viruses, are common in nature.The newly identified virus is the first canine coronavirus found to infect people, a trait that may have taken years of evolution to acquire. Like the other novel coronavirus which spilled over from pigs, it hasn’t yet been shown to cause disease; it might even result in dead-end infections.Both studies underscore a fact. We do not know how many coronaviruses infect humans. Better surveillance for coronaviruses is needed especially when humans and animals are in close proximity and there are outbreaks of pneumonia of unknown causes. The virus identified in Malaysia was found because of a highly sensitive RT-PCR test that checked for many different coronavirus types.Neither of these two new coronaviruses are capable of causing a pandemic right now. They were found because scientists were looking for them. But there is a need to search for viruses that infect people, because a virus might lurk undetected and be just a few years away from causing the next pandemic.We can speculate what might happen when viruses remain undetected and cause infections in people. Over years, in the test tube of human cells, they might acquire additional mutations that allow them to become more capable of replicating and transmitting to others. In the process of using up the cell’s resources, they might cause severe disease. These scenarios are catastrophic for us, but there is nothing nefarious here, only evolution at work.Anirban Mahapatra, a microbiologist by training, is the author of COVID-19: Separating Fact From FictionThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/decoding-the-evolution-and-possible-proliferation-of-coronaviruses-101622015773310.html
26-05-2021||Editorials||A message from India’s coastline||A week after Cyclone Tauktae wreaked havoc across the west coast of India, Cyclone Yaas made landfall in Odisha on the east coast on Wednesday. It then moved northwards and lay centred over northern coastal Odisha, but affected parts of Jharkhand and West Bengal. Like Tauktae, Yaas also intensified rapidly. This, meteorologists and climate scientists said, can be linked to the climate crisis. Indian seas have been exceptionally warm, much warmer than usual, this year. Yaas and Tauktae were preceded by high sea surface temperatures reaching 31-32°C, making atmospheric and ocean conditions favourable for the frequent formation of cyclones and their rapid intensification. This phenomenon, which will become a lot more frequent this century due to the climate crisis, will impact rainfall, cause destruction due to floods and gusty winds, and affect the scale and pace of the evacuation process needed to rescue lives.The impact of the climate crisis on India is well-documented in scientific literature, and the spate of extreme weather conditions — heat/cold waves, floods, cyclones — that the country has witnessed in the last few years only confirms these warnings. India was the seventh most-affected by the devastating impact of the climate crisis globally in 2019, according to the Global Climate Risk Index 2021. India must focus on nature-based solutions (for example, restoring mangroves to reduce the impact of waves and storm surge on the shoreline to prevent flooding and preserving wetlands, forests and floodplains) to reduce disaster risk. It must also ensure that both existing and new infrastructure is climate-resilient. This means mainstreaming efforts to strengthen the resilience of urban systems by identifying disaster risks, enhancing structural resilience, and improve regulation and governance processes to manage risks.At the United Nations Climate Action Summit 2019, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced a global Coalition for Disaster Resilient Infrastructure, a multi-stakeholder partnership of governments, UN agencies, multilateral banks, private sector and knowledge institutions that aims to build resilience into infrastructure systems. This is a bold step in building resilience. But now, this has to proceed at a rapid pace. Year after year, month after month, week after week, and with every passing day, the climate crisis, in diverse forms, is extracting ever-increasing human, social and economic costs. As Tautake and Yaas have shown, both the State and citizens have to be prepared at all times.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/a-message-from-india-s-coastline-101622031797232.html
26-05-2021||Editorials||Lakshadweep: Tackle the brewing discontent||Lakshadweep administrator Praful Khoda Patel has kicked up a political storm with a set of decisions that the government claims will trigger further development in the Union Territory, but critics slam as undermining the political, cultural and economic make-up of the islands.For one, Mr Patel has curtailed the powers of the panchayats, bringing health, education, fisheries and animal husbandry under the administrator. This has reportedly led to many engaged in these sectors on a contract basis being laid off. Two, while the islands had been free of Covid-19 for almost a year, Mr Patel’s decision to lift the stipulation for mandatory quarantine for travellers from Kochi is attributed as a key reason for a surge in cases. The archipelago has now had over 7,000 cases. Three, the islands — which have an overwhelming Muslim majority — also face a draft regulation against cow slaughter, though beef forms part of the daily diet. Four, locals have opposed a draft regulation for the creation of a Lakshadweep Development Authority, fearing this would enable outsiders to purchase land. And five, Mr Patel has also, inexplicably, implemented the Goonda Act in Lakshadweep, which has a very low crime rate.Besides Mr Patel’s actions being undemocratic and unpopular, any unrest in the islands have implica-tions for India’s maritime security and could open the door for external mischief. The Centre should instruct Mr Patel to step back, engage in consultations with communities, elected representatives and stakeholders, and respect local sensitivities, history and aspirations instead of imposing a top-down development and cultural model he may prefer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/lakshadweep-tackle-the-brewing-discontent-101622031133892.html
