28-05-2021||News||With Shailaja’s omission, decoding the Indian Left’s gender blind spot||When the Pinarayi Vijayan led government announced last week that the new Left Democratic Front government’s (LDF) cabinet of ministers wouldn’t include the 64-year-old KK Shailaja, popularly called “Teacher” or more recently “Teacher Amma”, it faced a backlash of protests not just from members of the public but also from within the Left.As Kerala, which gave a rare mandate of voting its incumbent government back to power (for the first time in 40 years), was under a lockdown, the protests were mostly on social media with the call “Bring back our Teacher” becoming a trending hashtag. The argument was straightforward — if the LDF was voted back for its handling of public health crises such as Nipah and Covid, then, surely, the first-time health minister Shailaja had equal claim to continuity; and if there was a rule that no one could get a second term, why was Pinarayi Vijayan still the CM?“We respect their sentiments. But the party has taken a decision much earlier to induct new faces. It can’t give exemptions to some. It was a collective decision. All ministers of the outgoing government worked well, and it reflected in the election also. You may ask why the CM got exemption then. It was also the decision of the party... there is no room for individual decision, it is a collective one. Many are giving an interpretation that I was behind the move, but it is not right,’’ said Vijayan on Wednesday.The CM may have ruled out a rethink but not everyone is convinced with this decision. Hindustan Times spoke to a cross section of women Left leaders on the record, including a Communist Party of India (Marxist) politburo member, who don’t agree with the chief minister.“We do have to keep fighting and pushing for greater inclusion,’’ said Subhashini Ali on Wednesday, one of the two women members of a total of 17 in the Communist Party of India (Marxist) or CPM politburo, the highest decision-making body of the central party unit.Also Read | Restoring the spirit of cooperative federalismVijayan is a member of the politburo but as the party general secretary Sitaram Yechury said, the decision to drop Shailaja was that of the state unit. Ali told HT that she didn’t want to comment on the Kerala cabinet but was speaking about women’s position in a more general sense and why there very few women in bodies such as the politburo.The politburo took in a woman member as late as 2005 when Brinda Karat was inducted. Karat distanced herself from Shailaja’s exclusion but didn’t seem to endorse it. “In our party, the decision to choose the ministers is the prerogative of the state committee. And it is for them to give an explanation and answer the questions which are being raised by their decision.”The Left and gender parityTo be sure, as Ali rightly pointed out, the lack of proper representation of women isn’t just the Left’s problem. The current Parliament has the largest representation of women with under 13% women parliamentarians, but this still makes the Indian 145th in the world when it comes to gender parity.Even though the Congress, the Bhartiya Janata Party and the Left all came together to push for the Women’s Reservation Bill that seeks to reserve one-third of Lok Sabha and state assembly seats for women, these efforts haven’t translated into law. In the 2019 elections, the Congress and BJP fielded only 12.9% and 12.6% women candidates respectively and the CPI (M) was only slightly better than them at 14.5%.In the 2021 Kerala elections, there were only 103 women candidates out of the total 928 candidates who contested. The CPI(M) fielded only 10 women out of the 83 seats it contested in the 140-seat assembly. 11 out of the 126 winning candidates are women from LDF and while there were just two women ministers last time around, this time, there are three new faces, including Veena George who will replace KK Shailaja. While the party pushes the view that three women among 20 ministers is progress from the previous cabinet that just had Shailaja, and Mercykuttyamma, women are not convinced.Also Read | Congress appoints VD Satheesan as leader of opposition in Kerala“It really is very disappointing,’’ said Annie Raja, who is a member of the national executive of the Communist Party of India (CPI) which is part of the LDF. Like the CPM, the CPI too has only two women in its national executive of 35 and only one out of the 11 members in the top Central Control Commission is a woman. Raja also happens to be from the same constituency as Shailaja and personally vouches for her exemplary work -- her fearless handling of the Nipah outbreak, which has been made into a movie, and her delivery as an MLA, which drew praise even from the Opposition.“This was an opportunity to show us as an alternative, to send a message to the people who have acknowledged our work and we should have responded by acknowledging what they wanted,’’ said Raja, pointing out that Kerala was yet to have a woman chief minister.In a way, Raja and other women Left leaders feel that by failing to elevate Shailaja and ignoring her achievement of getting the highest margin of over 60,000 votes, the party is letting down a key communist principle, that of equality. Instead, the CM and his supporters cite their constitution which expects a communist to always place “the interests of the Party and the people above personal interests”. This, critics point out, is often cited while denying marginalised groups such as women and Dalits their fair share.The Left’s defenceOne of the key arguments LDF used to defend their decision to drop Shailaja is that they are giving an opportunity to new faces, and that they were bringing in three women instead of just one. But this argument is misleading and false, according to women leaders HT spoke to.“The argument being offered shows gender blindness’’ said Kavita Krishnan, a member of the CPI (Marxist-Leninist) Liberation politburo. Again, just like the CPM and the CPI, the politburo has only her as the lone woman member in a team of 17. “To say that you are keeping cabinet seats for new faces, this cannot apply to women. I expected more from a 21st century Left organisation.”Krishnan’s point is that while the LDF may couch its decision as an opportunity for freshers or an opportunity for the less privileged, it cannot be used to deny space to someone who is marginalised. In fact, feminist and academician J Devika says that it is exactly this kind of “insidious” logic that was used by white authority figures to deny black people their rightful position in the workplace. “It’s like a person of colour who rises through the ranks and then when it’s time to get a position of authority, they are told to make way for the less privileged, usually a white person. It’s a common ploy to deny meritorious groups,” said Devika.Also Watch | Drones used for sanitising public places in Kerala’s ThrissurBut the party’s explanation can also be viewed as tactically astute in stifling any dissent. By offering these explanations, the party leadership has made it quite difficult for women to oppose it. Shailaja herself has publicly accepted the decision.“Everybody should get an opportunity,’’ she said in response to the outrage after the announcement, encouraging them to accept the party’s decision. But was this a way of pitching one woman against others?“A woman cannot open her mouth and will have to accept because of two reasons. One, she will be seen as power hungry. And second, she will be seen as denying opportunities to three other women,’’ said Devika. While the Left leaders aren’t sure if there is a bigger plan for Shailaja, in terms of elevating her to a larger role in the future, feminists see this as a classic ploy to silence a woman with guilt.HT reached out to new minister R Bindu to understand how she viewed this controversy but she said she was travelling, and would be unable to talk due to network issues.Is it Gowri Amma 2.0? What’s unclear, as of now, is the reason behind this decision. When Shailaja got the highest vote margin in the state with more than 60,000, was she perceived as a threat to the chief minister? Or were there other powerful lobbies in the state that were against her, that felt threatened by the kind of publicity and praise that Shailaja received from all across the world?“This rule of no second term does not seem to have been applied to Pinarayi Vijayan. Shailaja should have been CM,’’ said Sucheta De, a central committee member of CPI (M-L) Liberation. Using that same, wistful phrase “missed opportunity”, De however links the issue to the larger social landscape. Just like women in the larger society struggle to get their voice heard, the same is true for women within the Left. Just like women are minuscule in positions of power elsewhere, so it is in Left organisations too. Because the leadership and party workers are all a part of society and therefore reflect its patriarchy, she says.“Patriarchy is always using some kind of logic to explain their actions and we see it in their cabinet change explanation too,” said Kawalpreet Kaur, who is a national vice president of All India Students’ Association (AISA). “They say we had one and now we have three, what kind of logic is this? They talk about women’s representation but only when it suits them.”The KK Shailaja episode has also brought back memories of what happened with KR Gouri, the founding member of the party and six-time minister in the 1987 state election. While the CPI(M) fought the election with her at the helm and she led them to a win, they chose EK Nayanar soon after. Gouri made her unhappiness clear and objected which finally led to her expulsion in 1994.Also Read | Kerala extends lockdown till May 30, CM says not the time to lower guard“The two cases are very similar, the only difference was that the elections then were fought under Gowri Amma. However, when you talk about continuity, then to a large measure, it is about Shailaja’s work,’’ said Devika.But academic P Geetha differs on this point. “It would be great injustice to the history of Kerala, women and the communist party if somebody draws a parallel between Gowri Amma and KK Shailaja. Gowri amma is one among the leaders who led the foundation of communist movement in the state. She belongs to an era of sacrifice, struggle and bravery. She is a legend,’’ she said.There are more recent instances as well, of the party expelling women who speak their mind. Like the party’s central committee member Jagmati Sangwan, who was expelled in 2016 because she went public with her views against the Left tie-up with the Congress in the assembly elections. While she is now back in the party, she no longer has the seniority. She didn’t want to comment on the Shailaja matter, when asked by HT.Carole Spary, author of the book Performing Representation, on Indian women MPs said the gender discrimination was very apparent in the Left.“Something that has often struck me is the dissonance between how politically active women are in the Left parties’ women’s organisations and in mobilising other women on behalf of their parties, and the lack of opportunities from their parties to serve as elected representatives or in party leadership positions. In other words, they have a ready made base of politically experienced and motivated women from which to choose potential candidates so they can’t cite lack of interest or available candidates,’’ she said.The quest for more equity While most of the women leaders HT spoke to are disheartened, there are signs of change every day. Signs that younger leaders such as De, Krishnan and Kaur see around them. Yes, there is patriarchy but there is also a lot of engagement with the idea, there is also a lot of conversation around it and an acknowledgement of it.Kavita Krishnan recalls an event in Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) in 1994 when council elections were on. When a woman proposed their induction, a man got up to say, “What’s the point of having 5-6 women when there is already one in the council?” His response sparked considerable outrage and helped her make up her mind to take up the position but Krishnan is quite certain that no one would publicly dare say something like this today.For Annie Raja, change is personified in her daughter Aparajita Raja. A student leader who is active in Left politics and was a prominent face in JNU, Aparajita is far less tolerant than her mother of such inequality. “I once told her this is ok for a man and what she told me keeps me awake at night even today- I didn’t expect this from you.” A new, more assertive group of feminists is ready to take on the patriarchy in the Left.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/with-shailaja-s-omission-decoding-the-indian-left-s-gender-blind-spot-101621834566301.html
28-05-2021||Lucknow||UP aims to administer 10 million Covid-19 vaccine doses in June, says Yogi||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday said the state aimed to administer one crore (10 million) doses of the Covid-19 vaccine in June.In nearly four-and-a-half months since the launch of the vaccination drive across the country on January 16, UP has administered a total of 1.73 crore (17.3 million) doses, including over 34 lakh (3.4 million) second doses,. The number also includes 16.69 lakh (1.67 million) doses to people in the 18-45 age group, the data shows.Last week, the chief minister had said the state aimed to vaccinate all people (in all the eligible age groups) in the next six months.“From June 1, all the districts in the state will begin vaccinating persons in the 18-44 (18-45) age group. It is important to vaccinate as many people as possible for preventing infection in the future and minimising the effect of the pandemic. So, begin the June vaccination drive with the aim to administer one crore doses in the month,” the chief minister said in a high-level Covid review meeting. Vaccination for the 18-45 group is on in 23 of UP’s 75 districts currently. Those above 45 years of age are getting the jabs in all the districts.He also said it was important to focus on zero wastage of vaccines.All the vaccination centres must have a waiting area and an observation area, he added. There should not be any unnecessary crowding at the centres, he said.He also said, “Covid recovery rate has now reached 95.7% (in UP). In the last 24 hours, the positivity rate was a mere 0.7%. A total of 2,402 fresh cases of Covid were recorded in the state in the last 24 hours while 8,145 people recovered and were discharged from the hospital in the same time period. On April 30, the state had a total of 3.10 lakh active cases which had now come down to 52,244.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-aims-to-administer-10-million-covid-19-vaccine-doses-in-june-says-yogi-101622226505193.html
28-05-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana’s solitary civil hospital has no ENT specialist for black fungus cases||Even as nearly 72% of mucormycosis or black fungus patients in Punjab have been diagnosed with the fungal infection only in the sinus/nose area, the solitary civil hospital in Ludhiana does not have a single ENT specialist.Currently, the patients are at the mercy of internal medicine and eye specialists, who are already burdened by Covid-19 cases.The hospital did have two ENT specialists – Dr Manisha Khanna and Dr Anmol Rattan. But the former was recently transferred after being promoted as senior medical officer (SMO) and the latter is on a three-year sabbatical to pursue fellowship in Kolkata.Two other ENT doctors – Dr Ramesh Bhagat, is operating as the district epidemiologist, and Dr Pardeep Kumar, is deputed as Jagraon SMO.Nodal officer of the Covid unit at the civil hospital, Dr Hitinder Kaur confirmed they had no ENT doctor at present. “We have informed the higher authorities in the health department about the staff requirement in the wake of rising black fungus cases,” said Dr Kaur.So far, the district has logged six deaths due to mucormycosis, of which five are from other districts. A total of 64 patients are undergoing treatment in different city hospitals. These include 26 from Ludhiana and 38 from other districts.Sources said in the absence of the specialist, patients were being referred to other hospitals.Gurpreet Singh, a resident of Field Gunj, complained that he brought his father, who had symptoms of black fungus, to the civil hospital as he had limited means. But, in the absence of an ENT doctor, he fears his father’s treatment will be lacking.Besides the fear of consequences of the fungal infection, the cost of treatment at private hospitals is another cause of worry for many.Tilak Raj, 68, a resident of Old City, said he had already spent extensively on his Covid treatment, and wished to get treated at the civil hospital after developing symptoms of black fungus. “But, there is no nasal specialist. So, my son took me to DMCH, which is resulting in more financial burden,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhianas-solitary-civil-hospital-has-no-ent-specialist-for-black-fungus-cases-101622226265157.html
28-05-2021||Chandigarh||New mom reunited with infant son after 14-day battle with contagion||Surrounded by grim scenes for over a year now, especially amid the rising deaths during the pandemic’s second wave, doctors at the Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH) got a reason to smile on Friday when a mother was reunited with her newborn after her two-week battle with Covid-19.A doctor herself, Monika, 41, was 32 weeks pregnant when she was admitted to the hospital with serious Covid symptoms on May 13, warranting the need for ventilator support. With her oxygen saturation level down to 80%, doctors were faced with a major challenge to save both the mother and the child, said Dr Rajesh Mahajan, professor of medicine at DMCH.“Complications meant a weeklong ICU stay. But, treating a pregnant woman with serious Covid symptoms is rife with challenges, as strong medicines cannot be administered at such a critical stage,” said Dr Kamakshi, anaesthetist at DMCH, who led the team of young doctors, comprising Dr Ujjwal, Dr Mehak, Dr Shubham, Dr Aman and Dr Karanjot, that treated the patient.A day after her hospital admission, doctors successfully performed a C-Section to save the child, said Dr Ashima Taneja, a gynaecologist. The team of doctors then strived hard to save the mother in the following days and heaved a sigh of relief on the 13th day when she mother finally recovered and was handed her newborn son. “I couldn’t have wanted anything else in life,” Monika gleamed. Equally elated were her family members who spent two weeks in grave tension. “On the one hand was this extreme joy of a new arrival in our family, on the other hand we were constantly praying for his mother’s recovery,” said a family member.Experts have observed an increase in pregnant women contracting the virus as the second wave raged on in the state. In the recent weeks, hundreds of women in their late 20s and 30s across Punjab have tested positive, and over a dozen have succumbed to the virus.Dr Bishav Mohan, a member of the panel of doctors of the Dr KK Talwar committee to manage Covid-19 in Punjab, said pregnant women should not ignore symptoms like cough, fever and body aches, as early diagnosis can save almost every life.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/new-mom-reunited-with-infant-son-after-14-day-battle-with-contagion-101622225964629.html
28-05-2021||Delhi||SC seeks AG’s help over plea on cancellation of Class 12 CBSE exams||The Supreme Court on Friday sought the assistance of the Attorney General to decide on a plea to scrap Class 12 Board examinations and told the petitioner Mamta Sharma to be optimistic as the Centre, which is expected to decide on this issue by Tuesday, could pass a resolution in her favour.The bench posted the matter for Monday and directed a copy of the petition to be given to the central government, Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) and Council for Indian School Certificate Examination (CISCE). It also directed the petition to be supplied to office of Attorney General for India.The bench asked the petitioner why an advance copy was not served to Centre or CBSE. On Friday, as the bench took up the matter for the first time, it found only CISCE being represented in Court by senior advocate JK Das.Initially, one of the judges was of the view that the matter could be heard on Tuesday, coinciding with the Centre’s decision on holding the Class 12 examinations in the wake of the deadly second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. But the bench decided to keep the matter on Monday.The petitioner sought a notice to be issued on her petition as several high courts were also being approached on the same issue. The bench told Sharma, “Be optimistic. May be there is a resolution in your favour.”Sharma appealed to cancel the Class 12 board examinations, saying students should not be made to suffer amidst an unprecedented public health crisis arising out of the Covid-19 pandemic. On April 14, CBSE issued notification cancelling Class 10 examinations and postponing public examination for Class 12. Similar notifications were issued by CISCE on April 16 and 19.Challenging the decision of both the Boards, the petition said, “In view of the unprecedented health emergency and rising number of COVID-19 cases, conduct of examinations either online/offline/blended in coming weeks is not possible and delay in examination will cause irreparable loss to students as time is essence in taking admission in higher education courses in foreign universities. ” Sharma wanted the CBSE, CISCE and Centre to devise an objective methodology to declare the result within a specific time frame.IN this petition, an application has also been moved by a teacher requesting the Court not to scrap the Class 12 exams. This application by a Kerala-based teacher Tony Joseph has been filed by advocate Jose Abraham. The application stated that Class 12 examination is a “career defining” examination in the life of a student and plays a crucial role in determining admissions to higher education institutions.Last year, the top court faced a similar predicament when a demand was made to scrap Class 12 Board examinations. The petition came up at a stage when some subject papers remained. After Court’s intervention, the CBSE decided to scrap Class 10 examinations. It devised an Assessment Scheme for Class 12 students based on papers already given and their overall performance during the year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/sc-seeks-ag-s-help-over-plea-on-cancellation-of-class-12-cbse-exams-101622225844036.html
28-05-2021||Other||HC seeks response of Centre, Delhi govt on plea to vaccinate those below 18 yrs||New Delhi: The Delhi high court on Friday sought the response of the Centre and the Delhi government on a plea seeking immediate vaccination of minors between 12-17 years.A bench of chief justice DN Patel and justice Jyoti Singh issued notice to the Centre and Delhi government over the petition which has also sought that vaccination be prioritised for parents having children up to 17 years of age.There are two petitioners in the matter -- the first is a minor represented through her mother and the second is a mother of a minor child, Tia Gupta.The petition filed through advocate Abhinav Mukerji, has claimed that the number of Covid-19 cases has risen “tremendously” between April and May.“There are also reports of many children getting orphaned due to deaths of their parents,” the petition said, adding the vaccine policy in the country has failed to factor in children or parents of children and the Centre and Delhi government have also failed to prepare a plan to take care of minors affected by the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hc-seeks-response-of-centre-delhi-govt-on-plea-to-vaccinate-those-below-18-yrs-101622225786664.html
28-05-2021||Delhi||Common entrance test or board exam results? DU prepares for all outcomes||Even as a decision on the conduct of a common entrance test for all central universities remains pending, Delhi University’s computer centre (DUCC) officials said their team would require two to three months to develop a new admissions portal, in case the entrance test is introduced this year.With the second wave of the pandemic causing a delay in class 12 exams of the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) as well as other state boards, DU is awaiting a final decision from the ministry on the common entrance test, which will also be dependent on how class 12 students are being evaluated this year.“We cannot develop a portal or test it as we have no idea what kind of function would be required of it,” said Sanjeev Singh, joint director at DUCC. Apart from the uncertainty over the exam situation, two of the five core developers in Singh’s team are recovering from Covid-19. “Once all our team members are back to work, it should take about eight to 12 weeks to create the admissions portal,” he said.Last December, the Union ministry of education had formed a committee to look into the modalities of a common entrance test for undergraduate courses at all central universities, in accordance with the National Education Policy 2020. The committee has submitted its report and universities are currently waiting for the ministry’s response on it.Acting vice-chancellor PC Joshi, who is a member of the Central Universities Common Entrance Test (CUCET) committee, said such a test will become necessary if class 12 board exams are not conducted this year. “Delhi University admissions are always dependent upon the board exam results. If class 12 board exams are not conducted, we will have to conduct the CUCET to ensure that admissions are made without compromising on quality and merit,” he said.Delhi University, which has been conducting merit-based admissions for a majority of its undergraduate courses, has held multiple deliberations on how the university would adopt the entrance test.“We have discussed things at our level and the admissions committee has prepared itself for possible scenarios. We will also hold sessions to counsel students on the new admission process so that they don’t face any inconvenience or stress,” Joshi said.Since CUCET would be conducted by the National Testing Agency (NTA), which currently conducts the entrance tests for nine undergraduate courses at DU, the university will have to tie up with the testing agency to facilitate the admission process.“We have been doing whiteboarding because we will be creating an entirely new portal for admissions this time. So we need to have some ideas ready so that as soon as we have a decision on the policy, we can go ahead with the project,” said Singh.Last year, the DU had developed a website for online open-book examination (OBE) in three months. “There is a difference between designing a portal for exams and admissions. For exams, we know we have a set number of students using the portal. That is not the case with admissions -- we don’t have an idea on how many students will register. We have to keep all those factors in mind while developing a portal,” he said.Former dean (admissions) Shobha Bagai said DU will have to look into the modalities of the common entrance test. “Various matters have to be decided apart from the weightage to be awarded for the entrance test and board exam results. For instance, what if students were opting for a stream change, then what kind of test would they opt for? If CUCET is to be implemented, university officials would also need to think about all possible scenarios and make policy decisions on them,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/common-entrance-test-or-board-exam-results-du-prepares-for-all-outcomes-101622225785959.html
28-05-2021||Other||20 more Ludhiana residents lose battle to contagion||The Covid-19 pandemic snuffed out 20 more lives in the district on Friday, pushing its toll to 1,965, even as the daily cases continued to remain on the lower side.With 416 people testing positive for the virus in the past 24 hours, the daily cases remained below the 500 mark for the fourth straight day.On the deaths’ front, the district has logged 20 fatalities as many as three times in the past six days.While the cases have been dwindling steadily ever since hitting the record high of 1,729 on May 9 – down by 76% in the 19 days since – the there hasn’t been a significant drop in the daily deaths, which have constantly remained in double digits.40-year-old woman youngest among Friday’s fatalitiesAmong Friday’s fatalities, that comprised 12 women and eight men, the youngest was a 40-year-old woman from Chaminda village, while the oldest was a 75-year-old man of Haibowal Kalan.For the first time in a month, there was no casualty in the 20 to 40 age bracket, but as many as seven deceased were aged between 40 and 50.Four were in their 50s and another seven in their 60s, while two who died were in their 70s.Active cases down to 5,829On the bright side, at 5,614, the number of active cases fell below the 6,000 mark for the first time since April 22, when 5,829 patients were under treatment. Currently, 49 patients are on ventilator support in various hospitals in the district.Of the 83,251 people found positive since the beginning of the pandemic, 75,672 have successfully beaten the virus, a recovery rate of 90.89%. On Thursday, the district’s recovery rate had crossed the 90% mark for the first time in almost a month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/20-more-ludhiana-residents-lose-battle-to-contagion-101622225785459.html
28-05-2021||Delhi||Centre creating ‘artificial scarcity’ of vaccines to favour pvt sector: AAP||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) spokespersons Raghav Chadha and Atishi on Friday accused the central government of creating an “artificial scarcity” of vaccines in India by favouring supplies to private sector facilities over state governments, including Delhi. Alleging that the state was choking state governments of vaccine supplies and diverting stocks to private facilities — which charge for doses, unlike public centres, forcing people to pay for vaccines. “The Delhi government has run out of vaccines, forcing centres for the 18-45 age group to be suspended. These centres offered vaccines for free. But the private centres, which charge between ₹1,000 and ₹1,500 for a dose, have adequate stocks. How are they getting the supplies? It’s because the central government is favouring the private sector over the state governments when it comes to ensuring supply of vaccines. It also looks like doses meant for the state governments are being diverted to the private sector,” said AAP spokesperson and Rajendra Nagar MLA Raghav Chadha. Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor called these allegations “unfounded.”Union health ministry spokespersons did not respond to requests for comment.India’s coronavirus vaccination drive follows two tracks: the Union government offers free doses meant for those 45 years of age and above; then there is the acquisition by state governments and private hospitals to give doses for any group they choose to cater to. The Union government has made it mandatory for vaccine makers in India – at present, the two shots being used widely are both made in India – to keep 50% of their doses for the central supply, while the remaining will be evenly split between private procurers and state governments. Out of the 50% quota allotted to each state, the division is made evenly. In other words, from out of the 50% allotted to the state, half will go to the state’s public channel [calculated on pro-rata basis based upon the population of age group of 18-44 years] and the balance will go to the private sector based upon the contracts between private sector and vaccine manufacturers, according to a formula the Centre shared with the Supreme Court affidavit in the second week of May. “This is a big scam... Also, there are so many vaccines now that are approved across several states. Why is the Indian government refraining from giving emergency authorisation to other Covid-19 vaccine varieties?” said Atishi, who is the AAP’s MLA from Kalkaji. Chadha said, “It is all about profits and looting the public in the garb of vaccinations. Now that more government sites are closing down, people are being forced to book slots in the private centres. Going by the rates in private hospitals, a family of five ends up paying at least ₹10,000 to get completely vaccinated. This could be done for free if the government sites were open. This is happening across several states now.” “We ask the central government — how many doses have been allotted to private sectors, why are they not ensuring more vaccine supplies to state governments?,” Chadha added. Atishi said, “The Union government is creating an artificial scarcity to favour the two manufacturers based in India, even after it is evident that these two companies have failed to scale up manufacturing capacity. A lot of lives could have been saved by expanding the vaccination drive at the right time.” Spokespersons from Bharat Biotech and Serum Institute of India, the two vaccine manufacturers in India, did not respond to requests for comment.The BJP hit back at the AAP’s allegations. “The Centre has not caused any scarcity of vaccines,” said BJP spokesperson Kapoor.“AAP leaders should know that creating scarcity and putting people at discomfort is chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s speciality,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/centre-creating-artificial-scarcity-of-vaccines-to-favour-pvt-sector-aap-101622225723955.html
28-05-2021||Chandigarh||Manual scavenging underway a stone’s throw from Ludhiana DC’s house||Despite the employment of manual scavengers and manual cleaning of sewers and septic tanks without protective equipment being illegal under the Prohibition of Employment as Manual Scavengers and their Rehabilitation Act, the Ludhiana municipal corporation has still not done away with the practice.For the last two days, sanitation workers have been manually cleaning a sewer on the posh Sutlej Club Road, where deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma also lives. The worker were seen entering the sewer without a body suit, exposing them to infections, health and safety hazards.Vijay Danav, chairman of the Municipal Karamchari Dal, said, “Sadly, manual scavenging is being carried out on the same road where DC Varinder Sharma lives. We condemn the practice and It should be stopped immediately.”Ashwani Sahota, president of Karamchari Dal, demanded that the workers should not be allowed to enter the sewer without wearing a bodysuit. “The sub-divisional officer (SDO) concerned should ensure that safai workers are wearing protective gear before entering the sewage,” he said.SDO of Zone D, Anshul Garcha, said he had asked the workers to clear the silt in the sewage ahead of the monsoons. He added that no employee was told to enter the manhole and he will look into the matter.One of the sanitation workers, pleading anonymity, said, “We are working on contract and on very low wages. If we raise our voice, we will be sacked and there is no one to address our grievances. We want to live our lives with dignity. We do not want to beg and that is the reason why we enter the sewer and risk our lives.”Another safai sewak said that the work is giving them problems in spending time with their families and children.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/manual-scavenging-underway-a-stone-s-throw-from-ludhiana-dc-s-house-101622225605748.html
28-05-2021||Other||Vaccination centres to be set up at Chhota Imambada, two Lucknow stadiums||Mega vaccination centres will be set up at the iconic Chhota Imambada, KD Singh Babu Stadium and the Bharat Ratna Shri Atal Bihari Vajpayee Ekana Cricket Stadium in Lucknow. The initiative is part of the district administration’s vaccination drive aimed at breaking the Covid 19 infection chain.The move comes as the Uttar Pradesh government has decided to launch an aggressive strategy to expand Covid vaccination coverage from June.As part of the strategy, the state health and family welfare department has decided to launch workplace Covid vaccination centres (WCVC), guardian special booths and drive through vaccination facilities.District magistrate Abhishek Prakash, along with health department officials, on Friday carried out an inspection and reviewed the preparations for the mega camps.“We are setting up three mega Covid 19 vaccination centres— Chhota Imambada, KD Singh Babu Stadium and Bharat Ratna Shri Atal Bihari Vajpayee Ekana Cricket Stadium — to cater to the people residing within the city limits,” said Prakash.The district administration is yet to announce the dates when the camps would become operational.Prakash said the administration had also made arrangements for buses that would ferry women, senior citizens and specially abled people free of cost to and from the camps.The mega camps, he said, would have all kinds of amenities, including drinking water facility and seating arrangements.The DM also said that the city vaccination drive would be followed by another vaccination drive of similar nature where mega vaccination centres would be established in the days to come. Prior to this, Shia cleric Maulana Kalbe Jawad had suggested the transformation of the Imambadas into Covid-19 hospitals. The senior cleric had said that in Islam nothing was bigger than saving life and hence he felt that the transformation should take place in the national interest.He had also said that Imambadas could easily accommodate around 1,000 beds. His idea, however, failed to find favour with historians, who had said that there were non-heritage structures other than the more than 200-year-old Bada Imambada and other imambadas that could be used for the purpose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/vaccination-centres-to-be-set-up-at-chhota-imambada-two-lucknow-stadiums-101622225484001.html
28-05-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: 544 Khaki warriors infected in line of duty, three dead so far||At the forefront of the district’s battle against the Covid-19 pandemic, Ludhiana police have lost their three members to the virus, while another 541 have been inflicted by the infection so far.Among them, 37 are still fighting the virus, including joint commissioner of police (JCP) J Elanchezhian. Since the pandemic broke out in March last year, at least 504 police personnel, including commissioner of police Rakesh Agrawal and additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP, City 3) Sameer Verma, have already beaten coronavirus.But, three cops lost the battle to the contagion – assistant commissioner of police (ACP, North) Anil Kumar Kohli, 52, ASI Jaspal Singh, 49, and ASI Sanjiv Kumar, 57. A homeguard jawan, Gurnam Singh, 55, who was deputed at the Meharban police station, also lost his life due to the pandemic.While the healthcare staff have been fighting to heal the sick, police personnel have been struggling to safeguard citizens against the deadly infection.From implementing the lockdown restrictions by appealing to residents to stay indoors to penalising the violators to deter the spread of infection, police personnel have been giving it their all, while even staying away from family members for their safety.Going the extra mile, they are also providing food to the needy patients in home isolation and even celebrated birthdays of people locked indoors due to the lockdown last year.Commissioner of police Rakesh Agrawal said police were working round the clock to ensure Covid norms were being followed, besides maintaining law and order, which had increased their workload and also exposed them to infection time and again.Vaccine hesitancy continuesCovered under the frontline workers category, police personnel have been eligible for vaccination since the drive was rolled out nationwide on January 16.But, the department has yet to achieve 100% vaccination. While 93.5% cops (4,303) of the 4,600-strong police force have received the first dose, only 52% (2,392) have come forward for the second jab.Agrawal said the department was holding special vaccination camps for the force and will achieve 100% coverage soon. Besides, considering the strains of the job, they were also taking care of their diet, and physical and mental health.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana544-khaki-warriors-infected-in-line-of-duty-three-dead-so-far-101622225305738.html
28-05-2021||Mumbai||Row over faulty ventilators: Are you not concerned about lives of Covid patients, HC asks Centre||The Bombay high court (HC) on Friday questioned the Central government as to whether it was not concerned about the lives of Covid patients, after the Centre in its affidavit defended the company which supplied faulty ventilators, but said nothing about the remedial measures it was going to take to address the issue of defective and dysfunctional ventilators received by the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Aurangabad from the Centre.The court observed that the Centre’s affidavit also raised a doubt on the efficiency of the doctors and technicians at GMCH, Aurangabad, by claiming that around 3,000 ventilators provided to other states were functioning properly. The vacation bench of justice Ravindra Ghuge and justice Bhalchandra Debadwar was hearing a suo motu criminal public interest litigation (PIL) initiated by the HC after news reports pointed to a shortage of Remdesivir and oxygen, improper facilities and plight of patients who could not afford treatment of Covid and black fungus infection, improper bed management in hospitals, profiteering by ambulance service providers, among others. The bench had also taken note of news reports which stated that 113 of the 150 ventilators received by the GMCH, Aurangabad under the PM Cares Fund had malfunctioned, and hospitals and doctors refused to use them as it posed a threat to the lives of patients being treated for Covid-19. Earlier in the week on May 25 the bench had asked the Centre to respond. On Friday, the Centre submitted its response wherein it stated that the ventilators were purchased by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW) and categorically denied that they were purchased through the PM Cares Fund. Assistant solicitor general Ajay Talhar for the Centre said that there was no fault in the ventilators manufactured by the Rajkot-based company as there were no complaints about the 3,000 ventilators supplied by the company to other states. Talhar said the 113 ventilators had malfunctioned as the doctors and technicians had not followed instructions while making the ventilators operational. The court expressed shock at the submissions and asked, “Are you holding the brief for the company? Are you not concerned about the lives of the citizens?”“We expected you to say that you will take immediate steps and ask the company to address the issue and ensure that proper installation of the ventilators was done along with imparting training to the hospitals on using them. But you seem to be more interested in defending the company,” the bench added.The exasperated bench further questioned as to whether the Centre and the company had carried out a study to know if GMCH had the proper infrastructure in place to receive and install the ventilators, as it had read a report which stated that the dean of GMCH had refused to take delivery of the ventilators and it was only after the intervention of the collector that the same was accepted. On its part, the state submitted a report of a committee of eight doctors involved in ICU’s and was conversant with the use of ventilators which they had handed over to the dean of GMCH. The report stated that they had tested the ventilators and they found that the machines were not fit to use to treat Covid-19 patients. The report also stated that ventilators manufactured by other companies were being successfully used for more than six months to one year and only the ventilators manufactured by Jyoti CNC, Rajkot were malfunctioning. After the rap from the bench, ASG Talhar submitted that MoHFW would take all remedial steps and ensure that the ventilators operate normally and all defects, if any, would be rectified.The HC then asked Talhar to take instructions and respond to the eight-member committee report. “We would also appreciate if MOHFW refrains from questioning reports of medical experts and instead respects such reports in the larger interest of the society for rectifying the said machines,” said the bench. It has now posted the suo motu PIL for further hearing on June 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/row-over-faulty-ventilators-are-you-not-concerned-about-lives-of-covid-patients-hc-asks-centre-101622225063877.html
28-05-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai Metro-2A, 7 to start partially from October, full operations likely from January 2022||In relief to commuters in the western suburbs, two under-construction Metro lines — Metro-2A (Dahisar-Aarey) and Metro-7 (Dahanukarwadi to Aarey) — will be operational from January 2022. The first phase of the two lines will commence from October this year, Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) announced on Friday. Trial runs on both lines will start from Monday, said MMRDA chief RA Rajeev. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray will inaugurate the trial run on Monday.Metro-2A connects Dahisar to DN Nagar with 16 stations in between, while Metro-7 will connect Dahisar (East) with Andheri (East) and will have 13 stations. The two lines will provide considerable relief to the people travelling in the western suburbs. “Both the lines will become fully operational in January next year. It will reduce the load of local trains by about 10-12% and will also reduce travel time significantly,” Rajeev said. The metros will run at a speed of 80 kilometres per hour. “We will start the trial run from Monday and this will be completed by October. After that, the first phase will become operational from October onwards,” he added.The total cost for the two metro lines is approximately ₹12,800 crore, of which around ₹6,000 crore have been spent till date. It is estimated that 0.92 million people will be travelling in both these lines once operational.Both the lines were expected to be operational by December last year, but the Covid-19 pandemic and the resultant lockdown led in delays. After the lockdown was eased, MMRDA ramped up the work.MMRDA is the nodal authority for the Mumbai Metro Master Plan which is looking to implement a 337-km network in and around the city. MMRDA is also implementing the Mumbai Trans-Harbour Link (MTHL) – a 22-km sea-bridge connecting Mumbai and Navi Mumbai.Mumbai got its first metro connecting the suburbs of Versova, Ghatkopar and Andheri in 2014.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-metro-2a-7-to-start-partially-from-october-full-operations-likely-from-january-2022-101622224943864.html
28-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra seeks share in cess, surcharges levied on diesel, petrol||The Maharashtra government has demanded for share in the cess and surcharges levied on petrol and diesel, collected exclusively by the Central government, to help the state governments in their fights against the Covid-19 pandemic. The state, in the 43rd Goods and Services Tax (GST) Council meeting held on Friday, also demanded extension of the protection and compensation period by five more years.State finance minister Ajit Pawar raised various demands related to GST regime, including share in one of the highest tax collections by the Centre. He said states should get share from various cess and surcharges levied on petrol, diesel and petroleum products. The collection of such heads was a whopping ₹3.30 lakh crore in 2020-21. “The revenue earned out of these taxes, duties may be suitably shared with the states at this critical juncture to strengthen our fight against the current pandemic,” he said.He also demanded the five-year period of protection and compensation given to the states against revenue losses be extended by five more years. The Centre had said it would compensate states against their losses due to the new regime for five years, since the rollout of the GST regime in July 2017. “Economic impact of the pandemic cannot be nullified in one or two years, and hence it needs to be extended till 2027,” Pawar said.The cash-strapped state government has also demanded immediate release of ₹24,000 crore pending with the Centre towards GST compensation from the previous financial year. The state also said the compensation set for the current financial year is based on the over-optimistic estimates of revenue generation and needs to be re-examined and corrected. “It will help states in getting more compensation if the estimates are revised taking the losses to the second wave of Covid-19 into consideration,” said an official from the finance department.The state has also demanded easing out taxes on medical items used in the fight against Covid-19 and vaccines. “The tax rate on medical grade oxygen, oxygen concentrators, pulse oximeter, testing kits and material needed for vaccination should be reduced. The quarterly payment and quarterly return system meant for small taxpayers should also by simplified, as they are the driving force of the system,” Maharashtra government stated in the meeting. The government has also demanded to continue 18% taxation on undenatured alcohol under GST and to not put it under Value Added Tax.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-seeks-share-in-cess-surcharges-levied-on-diesel-petrol-101622224823847.html
28-05-2021||Mumbai||Rise and fall of second Covid-19 wave in Maharashtra||Maharashtra has seen a 55.2% drop in the number of active Covid-19 cases over the past one month, with its weekly positivity rate down to 10.46%. A look at the numbers – on March 27, Maharashtra’s active Covid-19 cases were 303,475, which rose to 672,434 on April 27. After 30 days, on May 27, the number of active Covid-19 cases is 301,041. Also, the state’s weekly positivity rate, which was 24.26% in the week from April 28 to May 4, came down to 11.06% between May 19 and 25. A look at how the state did it. GROUND REALITY Public health officers claimed 22 of the 36 districts have witnessed a fall in the weekly positivity rate. According to the Medical Education and Drugs Department (MEDD) report, districts such as Satara, Raigad, Sindhudurg and Ratnagiri that were reporting high positivity rate have seen a plunge. For instance, the weekly positivity rate in Satara district fell to 21.93% in the week from May 19 to 25, from 34.37% between April 28 and May 4. The analysis of the data indicates a gradual drop in the pandemic curve, especially after the lockdown was imposed in April. However, public health officers claim essential decisions such as ramping up of daily testing, timely detection of mutated strains of Sars-Cov-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, and isolation of close contacts among others, too, helped in the fight against the second wave, which was more infectious than the first one. TEST, DETECT AND ISOLATE When the second wave started in the middle of February, some districts such as Amravati, Yavatmal and Akola were recording the highest number of daily Covid-19 cases. For instance, on February 1, Amravati had 92 Covid-19 patients. By February 5, the figure increased to 233; on February 10, it was 369 and on February 20, the patient count reached 1,058. The positivity rate jumped to around 50%, which also raised the eyebrows of the Centre. The public health department then ramped up the daily testing. On an average, they started to conduct 2,600 tests in Amravati daily and also increased contact-tracing to 45 people per infected patient. Suspecting a mutation of the virus, samples from the three districts were sent to National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune, for genome sequencing. Of the 275 samples sent, the ‘preliminary examination’ showed that four samples from Amravati had a mutation (E484Q). Another four samples from Yavatmal showed a second mutation (N440K). Dr Subhash Salunkhe, state advisor to Covid-19 treatment, said the mutated virus was more infectious and more people from the same family were contracting the infection. “There was a change in the pattern of the virus. It wasn’t as deadly as the first wave, but was spreading faster like the mutated viruses found in Europe. So, after the confirmation of the mutation, we designed a containment plan,” he added. Lockdown-like restrictions were imposed in Amravati from February 22, which helped bring down the positivity rate from 48% to 9%. “We were the first ones to declare localised restrictions, which helped break the chain. Before the lockdown, there were around 800-900 cases, which dropped to 300,” said Dr Dilip Ranmale, district health officer (DHO). Soon, districts like Mumbai, Pune, Thane, Nagpur and Palghar started reporting the highest number of cases. The positivity rate in Mumbai rose to over 22% in April, which is now down to 4.7%. Similarly, Nagpur recorded a positivity rate of 31.28% in the third week of April. The public health department ordered ramping up of daily testing, and boosted RT-PCR testing. Government laboratories were run in three shifts around-the-clock. The state also deployed three mobile labs at Nagpur, Pune and Aurangabad. Dr Pradeep Awate, state’s surveillance officer, said, “In the first wave, we never crossed one lakh tests in a day, but in the second wave, we ramped it up to around three lakh. This helped in early detection and increased contact tracing. At present, the testing has been reduced as the number of high-risk contacts and close contacts is low, with the decline in positivity rate.” VACCINATION A PROTECTIVE SHIELD Maharashtra started the mass immunisation programme from January 16. Since then, 21,352,332 vaccinations have been recorded; 4,431,707 beneficiaries have even got their second dose. “Healthcare and frontline workers who work in close proximity with infected patients got vaccinated, which helped control the infection rate. In the third phase, people above 60 years, considered the most vulnerable group, got inoculated. This helped control the spread among the elderly,” said Dr Rahul Pandit, part of the state Covid-19 task force. The state and the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) now plan to ramp up vaccination even for the population below 45 years. “If we are heading towards a third wave, we want to vaccinate as many people as possible. Due to unavailability of vials, we put restrictions on immunization programmes for younger population. But as we have seen in the second wave, young adults and children are more vulnerable. We will try to prioritise immunising them as soon as we get more vials,” said Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner, BMC. However, the success doesn’t mean the guard should be down, say doctors. “Until we are able to vaccinate all people, the pandemic isn’t over. Until we get the vials, social vaccination is the only shield we have to save ourselves from contracting the infection. People need to follow safety rules such as maintaining social distance, wearing masks and avoiding crowded places. They have to decide if they want a third wave or not,” said Dr Pandit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/rise-and-fall-of-second-covid-19-wave-in-maharashtra-101622224583770.html
28-05-2021||Mumbai||Class 10 evaluation criteria announced; optional CET for junior college admissions||After declaring cancellations of state board examinations for Class 10, the state school education minister Varsha Gaikwad on Friday announced the evaluation formula for promoting the students and making them eligible to get admissions in the junior colleges. Each student will be promoted based on their performance in Class 9 and 10 through internal assessment. It also will conduct a common entrance test (CET) for admissions in junior college, which would be optional. Those who clear it will get priority in admissions in junior colleges. The rest of the seats will be used for the students who were cleared by the state board in the evaluation process. The decision was taken in a meeting with chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, Gaikwad and state officials on Thursday.The Class 10 board exams scheduled in March were cancelled owing to a surge in Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra. The state still has close to 300,000 active cases. Around 10 to 15 districts are also facing rapid growth in cases.The state government decided not to change its decision of cancelling Class 10 board examinations despite the Bombay high court objecting to it, saying that the government was making a mockery of the education system.“All students eligible to appear for Class 10 board examinations will be promoted. Their marks will be determined based on an internal assessment of their performance in Class 9 and 10 both. Of the total 100 marks, 50% marks will be based on performance in final year examinations of Class 9 and the rest of the marks have been divided into two categories: 30 marks will be given based on the performance in written examinations for the entire year in Class 10 and the rest 20 marks will be given based on their performance in the oral examination, practicals and homework,” Gaikwad said.There are around 1.6 million SSC students across the state.“The state will also conduct CET for junior college admissions, which will be completely optional but it has its advantage. Those who clear the CET will get priority in junior college admissions. The rest of the seats will be used for the students who were cleared by the state board based on the evaluation process,” Gaikwad told reporters.The CET will be a two-hour long examination that will be based on the Class 10 syllabus. It will also be optical mark recognition (OMR) based on having multiple choices and the students will have to select the correct answer, she said.Students from other boards will also be allowed to appear for CET, she added.This evaluation process will be applicable for repeaters as well but there is a slight difference in their evaluation formula. Of the total 100 marks, 80% marks will be based on their performance in the Class passed by them and the rest 20 marks will be given based on their performance in the oral examination, practicals and homework in Class 10, according to a government resolution issued by the school education department on May 28.Gaikwad also said they will conduct examinations for all Class 10 students who are not satisfied with the evaluation process but the examination will be conducted only after the Covid situation comes to normal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/class-10-evaluation-criteria-announced-optional-cet-for-junior-college-admissions-101622224523854.html
28-05-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Parel society vaccinates residents, domestic workers, security staff||For the past two days, the management committee of the four-wing housing complex in Parel is busy organising vaccination camps in its premises, for residents, staff members, domestic workers, security staff, cleaners, drivers and all vendors visiting frequently.The BMC had on May 7 officially allowed housing societies and complexes to tie up with private hospitals in the city and organise vaccination camps. It had also made mandatory for societies to have doctor and medical staff along with an ambulance present in the premises while conducting the vaccination drive.The housing complex Ashoka Towers, comprising 650 families, has decided to not only vaccinate its residents but also contribute, to get their staff and family members vaccinated.According to society members, they had registered around 1,500 citizens for vaccination. But they only received 1,000 doses for the vaccination drive.Sarika Poddar, a resident of Ashoka Towers said, “We are vaccinating around 296 residents and around 104 extended family members of these residents, followed by 463 staff members, 104 who are family members of the staff and around 11 vendors who regularly visit our society.”Poddar added, “We are doing it to spread the message that it is our responsibility to help as many as citizens get vaccinated. Our domestic workers, cleaners and drivers need assistance, and we should help them in every way possible to get vaccinated. In our case, every member is self-financing staff members working in their house.”Sanjay Rathod, another resident, said, “We will also ensure that those who are being given their first dose in our society premises, will also get their second dose. If another drive after 84 days is not possible in our complex premises, we will ensure our staff members get their second dose from outside.”The society was also in the news last year for announcing to set up a quarantine facility inside its premises to become self-reliant.The BMC additionally is also planning to have mobile vaccination centres in the coming days after procuring vaccine doses in bulk.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-parel-society-vaccinates-residents-domestic-workers-security-staff-101622224103770.html
28-05-2021||Mumbai||Give Mumbai access to vax, BMC urges its six sister cities across the world||To meet the demand of procuring 18 million vaccine doses for the city, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has written letters to the mayors of six sister cities of Mumbai seeking their help in procuring Covid-19 vaccine doses, to avoid the severity of the third Covid-19 wave. These six cities include New York and Los Angeles in the USA, Stuttgart in Germany, St Petersburg in Russia, Yokohama in Japan and Busan in South Korea.The Sister-City International (SCI) concept is a non-profit citizen diplomacy network that creates partnerships between communities through the establishment of ‘sister cities’. The objective of signing the sister-city agreement is to advance exchange between the two cities with whom the agreement is signed.According to BMC officials, these letters were written under the sister cities agreement with the above-mentioned cities. All six letters have been addressed to the mayors of the cities mentioned above.In one such letter written by municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal, he states, “As a sister city of Mumbai, I want to congratulate you for effective measures taken by the city of Yokohama, to combat Covid pandemic and your success in achieving good results.”The letter further reads, “Being a sister city of Mumbai, may I humbly request your good self to help and provide access to vaccine for Mumbai city. We are ready to pay the necessary charges well in advance. Please let us know the availability of the vaccine along with its cost and bank details for depositing requisite amount of money, Mumbai as a sister city will surely acknowledge your favour for the same.”The letter with similar text was written by Chahal to the remaining five sister cities including New York, Los Angeles, Busan, St Petersburg and Stuttgart.In the letter, Chahal has noted that Mumbai city’s population is 16 million and its eligible population above 18 years of age is nine million. Thus, Mumbai needs approximately 18 million doses to vaccinate its eligible population.The letter also mentions that vaccination in the city started on January 16, 2021, and since then over three million people have been vaccinated. The letter notes that a third wave is expected to hit the city between July and August, and to avoid the severity of Covid-19, vaccination is very important.Additionally, the BMC has also floated a global expression of interest (EoI) to procure 10 million vaccine doses. The EoI was floated on May 12, post which, two extensions were given until May 25. The last date for submission of proposals now is June 1.The BMC, as of May 25, had received eight proposals of which seven were for supplying the Russian vaccine Sputnik and one was for supplying Pfizer and AstraZeneca. However, after this announcement on May 25, Pfizer issued a statement saying it has not issued authorisation to anyone for marketing or distribution of its Covid vaccine.Further, in the backdrop of this, the Czech Republic-based firm withdrew its proposal on May 27 without giving any reason, civic officials said. On further scrutiny, BMC officials said they will wait till June 1 for now. P Velrasu, additional municipal commissioner, BMC, told HT on Thursday, “We will process the papers first. We have time till June 1. We will decide the future course of action later.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/give-mumbai-access-to-vax-bmc-urges-its-six-sister-cities-across-the-world-101622224043797.html
28-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra mulls support for kids who lost kin to Covid-19||The Maharashtra government is likely to support the children who have lost their parents to the Covid-19 pandemic. The women and child development department has proposed to deposit a sum of ₹500,000 into the children’s account who have lost both their parents to Covid-19. It has also proposed to broaden the scope of the existing scheme for children called ‘Bal Sangopan Yojana’ and provide ₹2,500 a month to the children who have lost one parent and that too earning one. State women and child development Yashomati Thakur said on Friday.Started in 2008, the scheme — ‘Bal Sangopan Yojana’ — helps students with financial assistance to continue their education in case of a single parent; family in distress, death of parents, students with divorced parents and in case parents are hospitalized etc. Children eligible under the schemes get monetary assistance of ₹1,125 a month.Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray directed the state women and child development department to formulate a detailed policy for the upbringing of these kids so that a decision can be taken, the officials said.The directives were issued in a meeting chaired by the chief minister to review the progress of women and child development.“CM had called an important meeting with women and child development, and we had a detailed discussion mostly about the orphans who are losing their parents due to Covid. The second wave has affected a lot of families and the state government is looking to assist them through monetary means by introducing a scheme. We have proposed to deposit ₹500,000 in the account of a child who has lost both of his parents. In case of children losing one parent and the other one is a non-earning member of the family then to register them under Bal Sangopan Yojana,” Thakur said.“We have also proposed to broaden the scope of the scheme and increase the monthly grant to be provided to these children to ₹2,500 from the current ₹1,125. We have further discussed if these children can be given free education. All these proposals will be placed before the cabinet for approval,” she added.“The department should prepare a policy for upbringing and education of children who have either lost their single parent or both the parents due to Covid-19. The additional expenses apart from annual expenditure on the existing schemes should be presented so that a decision of its effective implementation can be taken,” said the chief minister in the meeting attended by the women and child development minister and senior officials.Over 93,000 people have died in Maharashtra after being infected with Covid-19.After the Supreme Court (SC) directives taking cognisance of the reports in the social media that children orphaned after losing their parents due to the virus were being illegally adopted, the women and child welfare department had formed task forces in every (36) district to identify such children at the beginning of this month. Headed by collectors, the task forces have found at least 195 such children in the state have lost their parents, of them, 108 have been orphaned after losing both their parents. 42 children have been brought to the childcare institutes (CCIs) run by the state government.It aims to ensure that the orphaned children are in safe custody and are given their financial and property rights. The step also assures that the children are safeguarded from illegal custody and trafficking.The school education department also has submitted a proposal to the chief minister for bearing education expenses of orphans, who have lost both their parents, till Class 12.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-mulls-support-for-kids-who-lost-kin-to-covid19-101622223983732.html
28-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra may get 6 million vaccine doses in June||The state government is expected to get over six million doses of Covaxin and Covishield in June, according to the communication from the Centre. Out of it, the state government will have to procure 2,070,530 doses of both the vaccines by paying for them, for the vaccination of the age group of 18-44 years.After vaccinating over 9.2 million citizens above 45 years and healthcare, frontline workers with the vaccines supplied by the Centre in April, the vaccination rate of the state dropped to merely 5.4 million in May till Friday evening. The drop in the inoculation is because of the short supply of the vaccines by Centre and two domestic manufacturers of Covishield and Covaxin. The pace of the vaccination is expected to increase a bit as the state has been assured of a supply of over six million doses of two vaccines in June.“According to the latest communication by the Centre, we are expecting more than six million doses in June. Of it, 1,496,500 doses of Covishield and 451,050 of Covaxin will be given from June 1 to 15 under the free quota, supplied by the Centre for the above 45 age group. The Centre has also allocated us 1,595,900 doses of Covishield and 4,74,630 doses of Covaxin, which are to be purchased by the State for 18-44 years during the entire month of June. We expect about two million doses to be supplied by the Centre from its free quota to state in the second half of the month,” said an official from the health department.The inoculation drive for the age group of 18-44 years has been suspended by the state for the last two weeks amid the shortage of vaccines. There is no decision on its resumption anytime soon. The state government had planned to vaccinate 20 million people above 18 years per month to complete the vaccination of 60 million people in three months. However, the shortage of the vaccine has slowed down the drive.Making it worse, the global bids floated by the state government did not see any response directly from the manufacturers from other countries. It received a response from eight intermediaries, whose credentials are being verified by the government.The state is planning to write to the Centre seeking the clarity and guidelines for engaging the bidders. “We are asking the Centre to clarify if the firm that has participated in the bidding are authorised by the manufacturers. We want the legal standing to be clarified by the Centre if we engage them for the supply. We are also seeking Centre’s opinion on the prices they have quoted and also the import-related permissions required from it for procurement,” said an official.Though the state has received bids from the firms claiming to have tie-ups with the manufacturers for the vaccines which have been approved by World Health Organisation (WHO) and the United States Food and Drug Administration. However, some of the manufacturers have denied having appointed any facilitator to deal with the state governments. Few of them also have said that they will deal only with the Centre.Meanwhile, 265,725 people were inoculated in Maharashtra on Friday taking the tally of administered doses to 21,920,198 to 17,433,173 people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-may-get-6-million-vaccine-doses-in-june-101622223923763.html
28-05-2021||Kolkata||Centre stuns Mamata Banerjee, transfers top Bengal official to Delhi after row||The central government on Friday transferred West Bengal chief secretary Alapan Bandopadhyay to the Centre’s department of personnel and training, ordering the top civil servant to report in New Delhi on May 31. The decision by the Appointments Committee of the Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi was conveyed to Bengal hours after a row broke out over Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee skipping a meeting convened by the prime minister during his visit to the state.“I am directed to inform that the appointments committee of the Cabinet has approved the placement of the services of Sri Alapan Bandopadhyay, IAS, (WB:1987) with the Government of India as provisions of Rule 6(1) of the Indian Administrative Service (Cadre) Rules, 1954, with immediate effect,” the letter signed by an official at the Centre’s ministry of personnel, public grievances and pensions said.Also Read: ‘Took his permission’: Mamata on skipping PM's review meet“Accordingly, the state government is requested to relieve the officer with immediate effect and direct him to report to the department of personnel and training, North Block, New Delhi, by 10 am on May 31, 2021.”Bandopadhyay was touring the cyclone-affected areas with chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Friday evening when the government received the order from the Centre. Bandopadhyay was also present at the chief minister’s brief interaction with Prime Minister Narendra Modi at Kalaikunda on Friday afternoon when the prime minister came to Bengal to review the damage caused by Cyclone Yaas. Mamata Banerjee did not attend the review meeting chaired by PM Modi, saying she had other appointments triggering a fresh political row.Bandopadhyay was due to retire on May 31. But Mamata Banerjee had announced this week that the central government had cleared her request to let the officer continue for three more months since he had the experience of working during last year's Amphan and had handled the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic.Trinamool Congress (TMC) spokesperson Kunal Ghosh said, “This is a vindictive action by the BJP which cannot get over its humiliating loss in the recent polls. This will go down in the history of dirty politics. A bureaucrat is being recalled before his retirement when he is touring cyclone-hit areas. This proves how anti-Bengal and anti-Bengali BJP’s central leaders are.”TMC Rajya Sabha member, Sukhendu Sekhar Ray, said, "Has this ever happened since Independence? Forced central deputation of a chief secretary of a State. How much lower will Modi-Shah’s BJP stoop. All because people of Bengal humiliated the duo and chose Mamata Banerjee with an overwhelming mandate."Bengal BJP general secretary Sayantan Basu said, “IAS officers are employed by the Indian Government. These are administrative decisions. This is not a political issue to comment on.”Alapan Bandopadhyay's transfer to New Delhi is unusual, especially because the 1987 IAS officer, according to his record on the DoPT website, has never served in the central government and would not have been empanelled to serve at senior positions in the government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/centre-stuns-mamata-banerjee-transfers-top-bengal-official-to-delhi-after-row-101622223536326.html
28-05-2021||Other||Corona curfew effect: Prayagraj airport sees sharp fall in flights, air passengers||The statewide partial corona curfew that has been in place for almost a month now has led to a sharp dip in the number of air passengers and flight operations at Prayagraj airport located in Bamrauli, said airport authorities. According to the data provided by officials of Airport Authority of India (AAI), till May 27 the airport has seen a decline of 17,000 passengers as compared to the April figures. In April, 31,230 passengers used the airport (including both arrivals and departures) whereas this number declined to 13,920 (till May 27). According to the data, Bamrauli airport catered to 17,038 passengers in the first fortnight of April 2021 of which 8,636 passengers were from the very first week. This was the period when corona cases were slowly picking up in the city. Likewise, the numbers of flights, that operated for different cities have also recorded a sharp fall. As many as 486 flights flew or landed in April 2021 here while in the present month just 284 flights have operated from this airport till May 27. Last month, there were around 16-18 flights operated on daily basis and on April 18, 23 and 25 there were 22 flights that were operated by the airport. As compared to this, on May 17 and 26, just 4 flights were operated from the airport as all the other flights were cancelled. “The flight service has been badly affected during the pandemic but at the same time the airport also witnessed a history in making when we started direct air connectivity with Dehradun,” said regional director of AAI, Achal Prakash. There is direct air connectivity for different cities of the country including Delhi, Bengaluru, Mumbai, Pune, Kolkata, Gorakhpur, Raipur, Indore, Bhopal, Dehradun, Bhubaneshwar etc from Prayagraj. The fall in numbers of passengers can also be noted by the fact that last month (till April 25) there were either more or close to 1000 passengers on a daily basis using the airport. On April 4, the airport catered to 1500 passengers, which is highest since April 1, 2021 till date, officials said. The pandemic affected the flights from Mumbai and Delhi the most, the officials said and added that the worst affected days, in terms of fall in number of air passengers, were May 1 (441), May 17 (260), May 19 (365) and May 26 (293). On May 27, a total of 503 passengers used the airport and 14 flights operated for 7 destinations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/corona-curfew-effect-prayagraj-airport-sees-sharp-fall-in-flights-air-passengers-101622223563669.html
28-05-2021||Kolkata||Centre transfers Bengal chief secretary to Delhi, sets up faceoff with Mamata||The central government on Friday asked the West Bengal government to relieve West Bengal government’s chief secretary Alapan Bandopadhyay and asked him to report to the Department of Personnel and Training by 10 am on May 31.“I am directed to inform that the appointments committee of the Cabinet has approved the placement of the services of Sri Alapan Bandopadhyay, IAS, (WB:1987) with the Government of India as provisions of Rule 6(1) of the Indian Administrative Service (Cadre) Rules, 1954, with immediate effect,” the letter undersigned by Anshuman Mishra, under secretary at the Union ministry of personnel, public grievances and pensions said.The Centre’s order comes after a row broke out between the Centre and the West Bengal government after it was reported that the Prime Minister who was at Kalaikunda was kept waiting and the chief minister and the state chief secretary met him only for 15 minutes and handed him the reports. The chief minister later said that she had left only after seeking PM Modi's permission and also pointed out that all parties were aware that Mamata Banerjee had meetings lined up. Mamata along with Alapan Bandyopadhyay took stock of the post-cyclone situation in Hingalganj, Hasnabad, Sandeshkhali, Pinakha and other areas on Friday. She also took an aerial survey in cyclone-hit areas of South 24 Parganas and Digha. Bandopadhyay was due to retire on May 31 after completion of 60 years of age but his tenure was extended by three months by the Bengal chief minister earlier this week. Alapan Bandhpadhyay who, is a 1987-batch IAS officer of West Bengal cadre, got an extension due to his experience in handling the Covid-19 pandemic in Bengal."Provided that in case of any disagreement, the matter shall be decided by the central government and the state government or state governments concerned shall give effect to the decision of the central government," the letter further said. The Trinamool Congress has called the move 'anti-Bengal' and said that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is indulging in dirty politics.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/centre-orders-bengal-chief-secretary-to-report-to-delhi-after-row-over-yaas-101622221911477.html
28-05-2021||Other||‘Haryana to distribute 8.6 lakh free tablets for online education’||Haryana education minister Kanwar Pal on Friday said the state government will distribute 8.6 lakh tablets for free to school students for online education.“Chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar has cleared our request to distribute these tablets to students of Class 8 to 12 as we are aware that those studying at government schools are economically weak and lag behind in this mode of education,” the minister said while addressing a press conference at his Jagadhri residence.He said Haryana is among top states that provided online education in a smooth way to students last year.“Online education was the only option left with us during lockdown last year, but we are in favour of continuing e-education in future,” Pal, an MLA from Yamunanagar’s Jagadhri seat, said.On raging apprehensions over Class 12 board exams, he said, “In a meeting with the Union government, we explained that the state is ready to conduct the exams by doubling exam centres at home schools. We are prepared for three-hour exam and those under isolation due to Covid-19 will be given another chance.”Pal spoke on “control of social media apps” through new IT Rules and said that there should be a command on these platforms as “absolute freedom of expression is not good for the society.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/haryana-to-distribute-8-6-lakh-free-tablets-for-online-education-101622219663923.html
28-05-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana extends summer vacation of schools till June 15||The Haryana government on Friday announced to extend summer vacation of schools, for students, till June 15 in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.However, teachers and other non-academic staff will have to come to school in 50% ratio from June 1. During this time, the school hours will be from 9am to 12noon.State education minister Kanwar Pal said a roster will be prepared by head of the schools to ensure 50% attendance of teachers and other non-academic staff.The head and in-charge of all schools will ensure attendance according to the roster of teachers and other non-academic staff in schools falling under their jurisdiction.School staff will have to follow instructions issued on April 30 with regard to Covid-19. Earlier on April 22, all government and private schools in state had announced summer holidays till May 31, a government spokesperson said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-extends-summer-vacation-of-schools-till-june-15-101622219603850.html
28-05-2021||Other||Five more deaths of black fungus in Haryana||Two persons died of mucormycosis (black fungus) in Jhajjar; one succumbed at the Post-Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS), Rohtak; and two others died at Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College and Hospital in Karnal.Jhajjar is the worst-hit district in Haryana in terms of death rate as six of 12 black fungus patients have died so far. Jhajjar civil surgeon Dr Sanjay Dahiya said, “One of the patients from Jhajjar had hypertension and the other was overweight. We are trying to ascertain the cause of these deaths.” Dr Jagdish Dureja, director of KCGMCH, said 11 Covid patients who tested positive for black fungus have died in the hospital so far.Bahadurgarh private hospital authorities refused to share information about how many vials were required per day to the patients and how many they received.‘BLACK FUNGUS BIGGER CHALLENGE THAN COVID’PGIMS, Rohtak and Maharaja Agrasen Medical College, Agroha (MAMC) have witnessed a sharp rise in black fungus cases and decrease in Covid patients. PGIMS has total 153 Covid patients and 123 black fungus patients undergoing treatment, while MAMC has 104 Covid patients and 84 black fungus patients.Dr Geetika Duggal, director of MAMC, said black fungus patients are increasing gradually. They have been waiting for liposomal amphotericin-B injection.“We have not received a single dose of liposomal amphotericin-B injection today and the treatment is being affected. Doctors have performed surgeries today. Due to dedicated efforts of medical staff and availability of oxygen cylinders and medicines, we managed to save lives of Covid patients but black fungus is a bigger challenge now,” she said. “A black fungus patient, with an average weight of 70kg, needs 6-7 vials of amphotericin-B per day. I have sent the prescription before the expert committee and am hoping that we will get the vials by late evening so that our work won’t suffer,” she added.PGIMS medical superintendent Dr Pushpa Dahiya said Covid patients are decreasing while black fungus cases are soaring.“Patients from across state are coming in and we cannot refuse them treatment. We performed successful surgeries of five black fungus patients today. Still, there is a shortage of drugs and patients are receiving less vials than prescribed,” she added.One of the state expert committee members, Dr RS Chauhan, head of ophthalmology at PGIMS, said there is shortage of drugs across country and Agroha Medical College will get its share of vials by Saturday morning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/five-more-deaths-of-black-fungus-in-haryana-101622219544201.html
28-05-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana reports 2,007 new Covid cases||Haryana on Friday reported 2,007 Covid infections and 5,025 recoveries bringing down the number of active cases to 25,075.The state reported 96 deaths with 14 people dying in Hisar which now has the highest number of 835 Covid deaths followed by Gurugram (787) and Faridabad (704).As per a medical bulletin, the daily positivity rate further came down to 4.48% and the cumulative positivity rate was 8.46%. The recovery rate was 95.60% and the fatality rate was 1.07%.Hisar with 2,534 active cases continued to lead the charts followed by Sirsa (2,207), Gurugram (2,204), Rewari (2,009), Karnal (1,774), Faridabad (1,471), Rohtak (1,338), Fatehabad (1,337), Bhiwani (1,164), Panchkula (1,154), Panipat (1,085) and Mahendergarh (1,049).As per screening and testing data of rural population in Haryana, 3,280 persons have tested positive for the virus in villages and the positivity rate for rural areas was 3.31%.About 1.37 crore rural population has been screened by teams constituted by the state government under the Haryana villagers general health check-up scheme.Of the 5,594 villagers tested on Friday using rapid antigen kits, 81 were found positive, as per the statistics.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-reports-2-007-new-covid-cases-101622219428981.html
28-05-2021||Other||Police announce cash reward for info on Tikri assault case accused||The Jhajjar police on Friday announced a cash reward of ₹25,000 each for providing information on the three absconders who were booked in connection with the rape of a 25-year-old woman from West Bengal, who had later died of Covid-19 at a private hospital in Jhajjar’s Bahadurgarh on April 30.Bahadurgarh DSP Pawan Sharma, who is heading the SIT, said they have issued arrest warrants and a cash reward of ₹25,000 each against three accused - Anil Malik of Delhi, Anup Chinaut of Hisar, and Ankush Sangwan of Charkhi Dadri.“During investigation, we interrogated 22 persons and it came to fore that Anil had assaulted the woman and Anup had supported him. Third accused Ankush did not appear before the SIT for interrogation and his interim bail plea was rejected by the court. We have issued arrest warrants and cash reward on them. We have sent notice to Jagdish Barad, who was among six persons booked in the case,” the DSP added.Police teams are searching the three accused in Haryana and Delhi. “The probe is moving in the right direction and we will arrest the accused soon,” he added.Earlier, the DSP had said that one of the accused, Yogita Suhag, had appeared before the SIT.“She had confessed that she along with others made a video of the victim in which she alleged that Anil had misbehaved with her when they were coming to Tikri from West Bengal in a train,” the DSP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/police-announce-cash-reward-for-info-on-tikri-assault-case-accused-101622219363773.html
28-05-2021||Pune||Shridhar Dixit appointed chairman of Marathi encyclopedia committee||Shridhar (Raja) Dixit took charge as the seventh chairman of the Maharashtra Rajya Marathi Vishwakhosh (Encyclopedia) committee which many believe is a positive step to gain momentum and move forward.Dixit brings in a dearth of experience and is currently serving as an emeritus professor of the department of History, Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU). “I have been associated with the Vishwakosh for some years now and 20 volumes are completed so far as per the plan when it was launched by the former chief minister Yashwantrao Chavan. The work began under stalwart Tarktirth Lakshmanshastri Joshi followed by MP Rege and RG Jadhav for whom I have great respect, now it presents me with a great responsibility to develop and nurture the Vishwakosh,” said Dixit. “This work on the Vishwakosh might have reached its volumes but there is no full stop, it is a continuous process, for we are presently living in a world of knowledge explosion, globalisation and communication explosion,” added Dixit. According to Dixit, in the present-day context, there are many socially deprived groups and hence it is necessary to have democratization of knowledge, and encyclopedia or Vishwakosh is one of the means. “This acceleration of the process is socially relevant and strong academic work which needs to be highlighted,” he added. He also stressed upon the importance of language and the unity in diversity of the many languages spoken in the country, which leads to enhancement of any language, by strengthening the power of language and adding to the vocabulary and terminology using English language and coining new terms in Marathi. Dixit believes in using technology for making the encyclopedia easily accessible and that is a major challenge that he has accepted as the chairman. Hemant Rajopadhye, member of the Marathi Vishwakosh committee said, “His academic background when he revived editor, Navbharat (intellectual journal), PrajnaPathashala, and his skills, experience and networking will certainly help the project and take it further.” Besides Dixit as the chairman for the Vishwakosh, he has 31 members to help him in his project. Sadanand More, was also appointed as the chairman of the state board of literature and culture which will help in the proposal to restructure the Maharashtra state board of literature and culture and also help in clearing the backlog of new works which was stuck due to Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/shridhar-dixit-appointed-chairman-of-marathi-encyclopedia-committee-101622218883212.html
28-05-2021||Pune||State water resource department agrees to lease canal land to PMC||The Maharashtra water resource department has given a green signal to lease the land of the Khadakwasla left canal to the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) to ease the traffic problem of the proposed village of Kondhawe-Dhawade, Shivane, Uttamnagar. At present, the PMC is using 20 kilometres of canal land and paying rent to the Khadakwasla irrigation division. Now, the PMC will get another 7 kilometres of canal land for developing roads to connect nearby villages. On Wednesday, Maharashtra state water resource Minister Jayant Patil gave instructions to the Khadakwasla irrigation division to hand over land to the PMC on rent. After that, the PMC land and estate management department has written a letter to the Khadakwasla division to make an agreement of rent and start a procedure to hand over the land to PMC. Rajendra Muthe, deputy commissioner of land and estate management said, “We have written a letter to the Khadakwasla irrigation division as per the demand of Member of Parliament (MP) Supriya Sule to hand over the land for roads. After getting the official order of decision, we will start the procedure of agreement.” The left-bank canal passes through Kondwe-Dhavade, Shivane NDA gate road, Paud, Karve road, Kothrud, Shivajinagar and goes up to Agricultural College. It is a 27 kilometre long canal. However, this canal is not functioning at all and there is no water in this canal. Area under this canal has been developed as a road and it is found that this road provided access in the adjoining lands. Of the total 27 kilometres of road, the PMC is paying rent of 20 kilometres of road (canal) to the irrigation division. The canal road under the existing PMC limit has been developed and used to connect main roads such as Paud road, Karve road. Road will help proposed merger Now, the state government has proposed to merge 23 new villages in the PMC limit and Kondwe-Dhavade, Shivane are one of the villages. The left canal is passing through these villages. Therefore, Sule was pursuing the issue of the canal land to be handed over to the PMC to develop roads which will help develop alternate roads to connect these villages as population has increased and existing roads are not enough to cater traffic flow in this area. Sachin Dodke, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) corporator said, “At present, there is only one road to connect PMC old limits to Kondwe-dhawade, Shivane area. It is part of the old PMC limit and PMC is giving rent to Khadakwasla irrigation division for using the canal road for movement. The population has increased in Kondwe-Dhawade, Shivane and Uttamnagar area. Therefore, there is a lot of pressure on existing roads which are under the jurisdiction of the old PMC limit. Now, the PMC limit will extend after the merger of villages, so we demanded to give the canal road which is not part of the PMC limit. The PMC has allocated ₹3 crore to develop the road. I explained the importance of the roads to MP Supriya Sule. After that, she pursued the issue and we got permission from water resource minister Jayant Patil.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/state-water-resource-department-agrees-to-lease-canal-land-to-pmc-101622218583168.html
28-05-2021||Pune||PMPML to start courier services in Pune||In a bid to overcome the financial losses which the organisation is facing, the Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) has now decided to start its goods transportation and courier services. Earlier, the Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) had started this service within the state to generate revenue during the last year’s lockdown and it is continuing. Currently, due to the state-wide lockdown, very few PMPML buses are running and that too only for the emergency services people. The daily income which had reached up to almost ₹1 crore has now come down to hardly ₹1 lakh. “We are having a huge loss of revenue from last 1.5 years and it has impacted our daily operations. So last year in the month of August we started to work out on a plan to convert some of our buses into courier service buses which we are starting soon now. We are going to collaborate with a private courier company for the same and the entire necessary infrastructure is going to be provided by the company and we will be handling driver’s salary, maintenance of buses and fuel expenses. At 13 of our depots the storage of goods will be done and at some of the bus stations too. From here the company workers will pick up the parcels and deliver it to the final destination,” said PMPML chairman and managing director (CMD) Rajendra Jagtap. Prior to the lockdown the daily average income of PMPML was around ₹1.5 crore which has drastically come down to ₹1 to 1.5 to lakh per day. The earlier ridership was around 11 lakh passengers daily with a fleet of more than 2,000 buses on road. Currently, only around 100 buses are running for essential services people in both the cities. “We have already converted some of our buses into this courier service bus for trials, in which the seats are being removed and at the back side shutter are installed. And we are also looking at the legal technicalities before starting this cargo service. These buses are being passed by the RTO as passenger service buses and now we will be doing courier service out of it. So, what legal things need to be fulfilled for it and what all changes are required which our officials are working on. We are never into luggage carrying or courier service till now and it will be the first time PMPML will be starting such service in the city. If all things go well, we will start the service for the city soon.” added Jagtap.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmpml-to-start-courier-services-in-pune-101622218523232.html
28-05-2021||Pune||Swargate police arrest duo for assaulting couple||The Swargate police have arrested Javed Rahman Khan (34) and Arbaz Afzal Pathan (23), both residents of Kasewadi in Bhavani peth on charges of physically assaulting a husband and passing lewd comments at his wife who were scheduled to take a bus to Mumbai at 6am on Thursday near Swargate bus stand. The duo was arrested based on CCTV footage and are currently in police custody. assistant police inspector Shabnam Shaikh investigating officer in the case said that duo accosted the couple near hotel Natraj where they were taking a bus to Naigaon Mumbai for a marriage related function. The duo came there and passed comments against the woman and when objected assaulted the husband and smashed his head with a stone due to which he sustained injuries. Later, they fled from the spot after molesting the woman. API Shaikh said, “Based on the CCTV footage, we tracked the culprits and arrested them. They are criminals on record and are known to have committed similar type of offences during earlier too. The couple was travelling to Mumbai and an argument broke out between them when the accused passed comments against his wife. They forcibly robbed him of his mobile phone estimated to be worth ₹15,000.” Pankaj Kasbe (26), a resident of Mhasoba Chowk in Dattawadi, a photographer by profession lodged a complaint in this regard. The duo has been booked under IPC 394 (voluntary causing hurt while committing in robbery) 504 (intentional insult or provocation) and 34 (Common intention).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/swargate-police-arrest-duo-for-assaulting-couple-101622218403166.html
28-05-2021||Pune||IPL player Rahul Tripathi fined in Pune for not wearing a mask||As a part of punitive action being taken against those travelling on city roads without a mask, the city police fined cricketer and IPL player for the Kolkata Knight Riders (KKR) franchise Rahul Tripathi for not wearing a mask. He was travelling in a car in Pune on Friday afternoon and was stopped at the police check-post near Khadi machine chowk on Friday. Police sub-inspector Santosh Sonawane attached to Kondhwa police station said, “At the said checkpoint we saw a man in a four-wheeler without a mask. When we stopped him, he told us that he was a well-known personality. We told him that he had violated the rules and had to pay a fine to which he agreed and paid ₹500 and went away.” The city police recently took action against the son of a former home minister and an offence was lodged against him for operating a hotel business in violation of Covid -19 restrictions. 31-year-old Tripathi is the son of an army colonel who took up cricket as his passion when his father who is a former state junior cricketer for Uttar Pradesh was posted in Pune. Tripathi enrolled at the Deccan Gymkhana and completed his studies simultaneously. He was first selected for the Maharashtra senior team in 2010, when he made his one-day debut in the world of cricket.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/ipl-player-rahul-tripathi-fined-in-pune-for-not-wearing-a-mask-101622217983193.html
28-05-2021||Pune||BJP corporator arrested for forgery||The PCMC police have arrested BJP corporator Rajendra Landge (42) for illegally selling a 940-square feet plot owned by Pimpri-Chinchwad new township development authority to two persons for of ₹15.80 lakh. A complaint was lodged by PCNTDA engineer S M Bhujbal (37). According to the FIR, Landge sold the property to Manoj Mahendra Sharma (38), and Ravikant Surendra Thakur (40), despite knowing that it was government land. According to the investigative officers, the accused prepared bogus papers and bogus property receipts, along with ownership documents and got the copies notarised. The Bhosari police have invoked IPC sections 420 (cheating), 467 (forgery of valuable security, will), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating), 471 (Whoever fraudulently or dishonestly uses as genuine any [document or electronic record), 465 ( forgery ), 447 (criminal for criminal trespass ) , 448 ( punishment for house trespass ) and 34 (common intention). Police inspector (crime) Jitendra Kadam said that Landge prepared a bogus power of attorney, consent letter and other incriminating documents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/bjp-corporator-arrested-for-forgery-101622217803077.html
28-05-2021||Ranchi||Doorstep vaccine service MobiVax rolled out in Ranchi||In a first, the state on Friday rolled out custom-made Covid-19 vaccination vans, named MobiVax, that will provide doorstep vaccine to beneficiaries of all eligible age groups.Health minister Banna Gupta on Friday flagged off the vaccination vans from Ranchi’s Jawahar Nagar Club. “Now, vaccination facility will be available at doorstep of beneficiaries. The state government is working with commitment to make Jharkhand healthy, prosperous and advanced. The pace of vaccination is being increased with availability of vaccines,” Gupta said. The drive was piloted in Ranchi, and all deputy commissioners (DC) in the state have been asked to begin the service for all kinds of beneficiaries. However, people who are differently abled, and above the age of 45 years will be given priority. Initially, the service will be available for urban residents, and will gradually be extended to rural areas. MobiVax will be available on demand, but with a condition of at least 20 beneficiaries at a time, officials said. Currently, two vans have been provided for Ranchi. Officer on special duty (health) for IEC (information, education and communication), Siddhartha Tripathy said, “Idea behind the service is to provide vaccination facility at doorstep for people who cannot come to vaccination centres, such as differently abled and elderly people. However, the service will be available for all.” The Government of India recently allowed mobile vaccination service for those in the age group of 18-45, while it already permitted the service for those above 45 years of age. “The service will be an additional facility apart from the static centres in the state,” Tripathy said. However, people above 45 years of age will be a priority, as the state was facing acute shortage of vaccines for the younger age group. As per data available with the health department, the state has merely 80,000 Covid-19 vaccine doses for the 18-45 group, which will last for two-three days, officials said. Tripathy said, “We have adequate vaccines for 45-plus people, around 7.14 lakh doses. We also have to speed up vaccination for this group, as state’s vaccination average is 28% against the national average of 34%.” As per the state vaccination bulletin, around 4.63 lakh people above 18 years of age have been vaccinated with the first dose. Besides, 23.66 lakh people above 45 have been given the first jab, while 3.57 lakh have been administrated the second dose till Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/doorstep-vaccine-service-mobivax-rolled-out-in-ranchi-101622217443107.html
28-05-2021||Jaipur||Doctor couple stopped by 2 men, shot 5 times in their vehicle in Rajasthan||Bharatpur/Jaipur: A doctor couple travelling in their vehicle in the heart of Rajasthan’s Bharatpur were stopped and shot dead by two men on a motor-cycle on Friday afternoon. Dr Sudeep Gupta and his wife Dr Seema Gupta, both in their late 40s, were shot five times. They died on the spot.The chilling murder in Bharatpur’s Neemda Gate area was captured by a traffic camera. The two men had been tailing the Gupta family’s compact sports utility vehicle for some time. Dr Sudeep slowed down his vehicle near an intersection. The two, who were on a dark-coloured motorcycle, possibly black, overtook them.Doctor couple shot dead in Bharatpur district of Rajasthan by unidentified assailants. #crime #Doctor @PoliceRajasthan #Rajasthan @RajCMO @VasundharaBJP @aloketikku pic.twitter.com/NAHDYcnBd4In a 39-second video that emerged soon after, the two men are seen blocking the compact sports utility vehicle in which the couple was travelling.One man, masked in a pink gamcha (handwoven towel) and brown cotton gloves running up to his elbow, adjusted the pistol concealed under his white shirt, and walked up to Dr Sudeep who was driving the car.As soon as the doctor rolled down his vehicle’s window, the gunman nonchalantly pulled out his weapon and started shooting.Police said the first shot appeared to hit Dr Sudeep in the head. His wife, sitting next to him, can be seen moving her arms towards his husband when the gunman fired at least three rounds of shots in quick succession at Seema. She lay dead on the seat.The accused looked around, waving their counter-made pistol at passersby and left on the motorcycle.The couple was arrested in 2019 and was out on bail in a case relating to the murder of a 25-year-old woman Deepa Devi and her 6-year-old son. Police had then said the woman had an affair with Dr Sudeep. Initially, Dr Seema was arrested for the double murder but later the police arrested Dr Sudeep too for conspiracy.A senior police officer said there was confirmation if the couple’s murder was linked to the murder of the woman and her child.Bharatpur circle officer (City) Satish Verma said the police are trying to identify the accused based on the CCTV footage. ‘There were traveling to someplace from their hospital when the incident took place. We will arrest the accused very soon,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/caught-on-cctv-doctor-couple-stopped-by-2-men-shot-5-times-in-rajasthan-101622217384347.html
28-05-2021||Other||Kosi threatens embankment in Saharsa, restoration on||PATNAEngineers of water resources department (WRD) have launched restoration work on an embankment on Kosi near Kundah village of Saharsa district, which was partially damaged due to gushing current on Thursday. The heavy rain caused by cyclone Yaas in the catchment areas of the river, originating from Nepal, led to excess flow of water and subsequently damaged a portion of embankment which was recently strengthened near the village. Rajesh Kumar, engineer-in-chief (flood control) at the WRD, said, “Gunny bags fortified by wires and iron ropes are being placed at the damaged site and cracks are being filled up.” “All embankments are safe and anti-erosion work is going on in full swing. It will be complete in the next few weeks,” said the engineer in-chief. A senior official of WRD said special attention was being paid to strengthen the embankments of all troublesome rivers like Gandak, Kosi, Mahananda, Bagmati, Burhi Gandak, Lak Bakeya, etc, which wreak havoc with life and property of people in north Bihar. “Embankments on Gandak, which was breached at three places last year, have been fortified and heightened as per the required design to stop flooding,” he said. He said the WRD engineers got cooperation from their counterparts in Nepal to strengthen the embankments in bordering areas on different rivers. “Following correspondences and talks with officials of the neighbouring country, we did not face any issue to carry out the strengthening work this year. Last year, the work suffered after Nepal objected to fortification of embankments near the border,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kosi-threatens-embankment-in-saharsa-restoration-on-101622217323085.html
28-05-2021||Other||Teachers’ recruitment: No headway on govt plea to lift stay, next hearing on May 31||PATNAThe Patna High Court on Friday scheduled for Monday the next hearing on a petition seeking 4% quota for the physically challenged persons, including visually impaired, in the recruitment of teachers in the schools of Bihar. The court had earlier stayed the recruitment till further orders and the matter came for early hearing on Friday after a special mention by advocate genera (AG) Lalit Kishore on the request of education minister Vijay Kumar Choudhary that the government would guarantee adherence to the reservation roster in letter and spirit. The division bench of Chief Justice Sanjay Karol and Justice Sanjay Kumar heard both the AG as well as the counsel for the petitioners, the National Federation of the Blind (Bihar branch).The AG said the panel for recruitment was ready and the court nod was awaited to publish it. “The government is ready to earmark 4% quota for the physically challenged, including the visually impaired. The government will also accept the second option of keeping 4% seats vacant till the final disposal of the case and it be allowed to carry on with the remaining 96% recruitment, if the court permits,” he said.However, the counsel for the petitioners countered it, saying many applicants had not been able to apply and so they be given fresh opportunity to apply. Besides, the counsel wanted details of the number of vacancies, steps taken to fill up the backlog and reason for non-implementation of reservation provisions for them.The petitioners have also been contending, citing an apex court order, that the state has not taken any action for identifying the vacancies from the year 1996 onwards or towards filling up the backlog thereof, as is mandated by provisions of the Persons with Disabilities (Equal Opportunities, Protection of Rights and Full Participation) Act, 1995 as also the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016.In 2019, the HC had sought personal affidavit from the chief secretary, indicating the extent of the vacancies, the backlog thereof, as a result of inaction on the part of the authorities, as also the steps taken for filling up the same and, more so, specific in terms of 1995 Act as also the 2016 Act and the reasons for inaction on the part of the state.Bihar has to appoint around 1.25 lakh primary and secondary school teachers, but the court stay has come in the way. The education minister had earlier said that the government was ready to go ahead with the new recruitment process for teachers fully enforcing the reservation roster formula if the court so allowed.With the tenure of the Panchayati Raj institutions (PRIs) ending mid-June and some interim measures likely to be put in place till fresh elections are held, the legal wrangle could further delay the recruitment process.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/teachers-recruitment-no-headway-on-govt-plea-to-lift-stay-next-hearing-on-may-31-101622217263632.html
28-05-2021||Other||Heavy rain lashes Bihar as Yaas enters state, NMCH waterlogged||PATNASeveral areas in capital Patna, including the Nalanda Medical College and Hospital which has been dedicated for Covid patients, remained waterlogged on Friday as extremely heavy rain lashed places in eastern parts of Bihar while heavy rain drenched most parts of the state as cyclone Yaas entered the state. As per the Patna Meteorological Centre, Manihari in Katihar received the highest rainfall (250 mm), followed by Kadwa (240 mm), Barari 230 mm, Purnea (210 mm) while Parsa and Katihar recorded 180 mm each over the past 24 hours.Gaya set its new rainfall record by registering 120 mm in 24 hours, from 8.30 am on Thursday to 8.30 am on Friday. Prior to this, Gaya’s single-day record was of 91.8 mm May 31, 2013.Patna recorded 92 mm of rainfall, very close to its record of 92.2mm on the same day as Gaya.Meteorologist SK Mandal said, “Cyclone Yaas has weakened into a well-marked low pressure area and is likely to lie over the state till Saturday. Due to change in wind direction, the cyclonic system might move towards north. As a result, northern parts of the state are expected to receive extremely or heavy rain at isolated places in the next 48 hours while rest of the parts are likely to experience light or moderate rain.”Meanwhile, the incessant rain flooded low-lying areas of the state, throwing life out of gear.In Patna, Kankarbagh, Moin-ul Haq stadium, Mithapur Bus stand, Rajendra Nagar, Nala Road, Patliputra Colony and pockets of Bailey Road were waterlogged for hours.Stormwater also gushed into several hospitals. Visuals of medicines floating in Jay Prabha Medanta Hospital went viral on the social media.In Gaya, Anugrah Narayan Magadh Medical College and Hospital (ANMCH) had prepared 40-bed special ward for treatment of black fungus patients. However, rainwater gushed inside the premise including OPD and ENT ward.At Hajipur Sadar Hospital, patients were seen wading through knee-deep rainwater, which entered OPD, emergency ward and X-ray room.“It’s very difficult for both staff and patients. Rainwater is everywhere, be it the emergency room or operation theatre,” said Dr SK Verma, hospital superintendent.The second largest hospital in the state, the NMCH in Patna, which is dedicated for Covid-19 patients, remained waterlogged on Friday after heavy rainfall since Thursday evening. The road leading to the hospital was waterlogged too.The hospital administration shifted Covid patients from the medicine ward to paediatrics ward. Hospital superintendent Dr Vindo Kumar Singh said, “There is a normal situation. Our sump powers are working and have released the water. Water has not entered the wards.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/heavy-rain-lashes-bihar-as-yaas-enters-state-nmch-waterlogged-101622217263059.html
28-05-2021||Other||SHO removed for kicking physically challenged man||PATNAThe station house officer (SHO) of Dighwara police station in Bihar’s Saran district, who was caught on camera kicking a physically challenged man for violating the ongoing lockdown, was removed from his post on Friday. A video clip of the incident, took reportedly place at Sheetalpur Bazar on Thursday, had gone viral on social media. Saran’s superintendent of police (SP) Santosh Kumar, who ordered the removal of sub-inspector Dinesh Kumar Das from the post of the SHO, apologised for the officer’s behaviour. “We will ensure such incidents do not recur.” Earlier, in Patna’s Paliganj police station area, a probationer deputy SP, Rajeev Kumar Singh, had been accused of assaulting Vikash Kumar (22) and his father Bhushan Verma on Sunday morning. The matter came to light on Friday after alleged photos of their injuries surfaced. Patna senior SP Upendra Kumar Sharma said he was looking into the allegations and would seek a report from the officer concerned. In Purnia, an assistant sub-inspector was recently suspended by SP Dayashankar after a video went viral purportedly showing him thrashing a vehicle driver. To be sure, police too had been at the receiving end of people’s anger while enforcing the lockdown. A police team was attacked while trying to disperse a huge gathering during a marriage function at Malpur village under the Khusrupur police station area in rural Patna. In Siwan, a police team had to brave stone pelting while enforcing lockdown provisions during a marriage function at a village on Thursday evening.At Bakhri in Begusarai district, a group of people attacked the police for beating up a youth for violating the lockdown. Meanwhile, additional director general of police (headquarters), Jitendra Kumar, said, “The police in Bihar have arrested 764 persons, lodged 400 FIRs, seized 28,461 vehicles and realised ₹5.51 crore in fine from the people for violation of Covid-19 guidelines and lockdown between May 1 to 24.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sho-removed-for-kicking-physically-challenged-man-101622217203604.html
28-05-2021||Other||Covid deaths: IMA finds political support for aid to private docs||PATNADoctors working with political parties as office bearers have backed the demand of the Bihar chapter of the Indian Medical Association (IMA) to extend the insurance cover of ₹50 lakh under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana to private doctors dying of Covid-19. Dr Sunil Kumar Singh, an ophthalmologist and state president of the ruling Janata Dal (United)’s medical cell, and gastroenterologist Dr Manoj Kumar, state convener of Bihar BJP medical cell, have written separately to their respective leaders, chief minister Nitish Kumar and health minister Mangal Pandey, in support of the demand. Dr Singh, in his letter to the chief minister, said the notification on compensation under PM Garib Kalyan Yojana was not averse to paying compensation to the families of doctors who worked in their clinics and helped in screening or treatment of Covid patients as per directions of the government. He urged the CM direct the health department to treat all Covid martyrs, including those from the private sector, “as drafted for work” by the government and to recommend compensation for their families under the insurance scheme. As per the Centre’s letter of April 26, a copy of which is with the Hindustan Times, the insurance scheme launched on March 30, 2020, was to provide comprehensive personal accident cover of ₹50 lakh to 22.12 lakh healthcare providers, including community health workers and private health workers drafted by the government for Covid-19 related responsibilities, “who may have to be in direct contact and care of Covid-19 patients and who may be at risk of being impacted by this”. The insurance policy has been revived for 180 days, effective April 24, and will now extend up to October 20. The IMA hopes to garner more political support. “We will tap doctors, who are MPs or former MPs, present and past legislators across the political spectrum to push our demand for compensation to private doctors,” said Dr Ajay Kumar, senior vice-president, IMA-Bihar, currently officiating as its president. Till Thursday, Bihar had lost 144 doctors to the pandemic. As many as 104 doctors from Bihar are among over 520 medical practitioners in India who have succumbed to the virus during the second wave of the pandemic. Forty doctors from Bihar died last year, Dr Kumar said. Delhi (103), Bihar (96) and Uttar Pradesh (41) were among states with high Covid-related fatalities among doctors, as per figures released by the IMA on May 25. “Of the deceased, 101 doctors are from the private sector, which includes those who resigned or superannuated from government service, while the remaining 43 were in active government service,” said Dr Kumar. Meanwhile, the IMA-Bihar also sought the CM’s intervention to lift curbs on supply of medical oxygen among non-Covid hospitals. It regretted that oxygen supply was restricted only among 90-odd private health facilities, allowed by the government to treat Covid-19 patients in Patna. It also requested the CM to allow more health facilities, having the requisite infrastructure, to treat Covid-19 patients. This, it said, would ease the burden on existing facilities and help patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid-deaths-ima-finds-political-support-for-aid-to-private-docs-101622217203017.html
28-05-2021||Other||Two Covid patients end life in 24 hours||BETTIAH/PATNASuicide by two Covid patients in the state in last 24 hours, one at Raxaul and other at AIIMS-Patna, has brought the spotlight on the impact of virus on the mental health of patients. So far, five Covid patients have committed suicide, four of them at AIIMS-Patna, over the last one year. On Thursday, a Covid patient jumped off the third floor of a hospital at Raxaul in West Champaran district. According to officials, the incident occurred at Dunkan hospital at Raxaul around 8 pm on Thursday.The deceased was identified as Ram Sharan Sah (36). “He had been insisting for discharge from the hospital for the past few days. He took the extreme step immediately after his family members, who had come to deliver meal for him, returned home,” said Chandeshwar Singh, administrator, Dunkan hospital, Raxaul.The deceased had been under treatment at Dunkan hospital since May 20. “Autopsy on the body could not be done since he was a Covid patient,” said Sagar Jha, Raxaul’s subdivisional police officer. On Wednesday, a 57-year-old man under treatment for Covid-19 at AIIMS-Patna jumped off the fifth floor bathroom of the hospital. He was admitted to the hospital on May 18. This is fourth case of suicide by a patient at AIIMS-Patna since the outbreak of the pandemic last year. In October 2020, a 68-year-old Covid-19 patient had committed suicide at the hospital. Earlier, a 38-year-old locomotive driver of the Indian Railways, posted in Delhi, and hailing from Khagaul in Patna, died on June 22. A month later, a 21-year-old youth from Bihta jumped to death on July 25 from the ward on the third floor of the institute where he was undergoing treatment.Psychiatrists attribute aloofness and hopelessness among patients as major reason behind taking extreme steps. “The fear of death is quite common among the Covid patients. In some cases, the amount of time spent in an episode of depression, aloofness and hopelessness become so high that they could well be forced to end their life,” said Dr Subhash Soren, director of Ranchi Institute of Neuro-Psychiatry & Allied Sciences (RINPAS), Ranchi. “Proper counselling by the experts is the most effective way to handle such patients,” said Dr Doren.Advendra Prasad, a medicine shop owner who spent 25 days at a private hospital after being infected with Covid-19, recalled his ordeal. “All sorts of negative feelings affected me. This was compounded by the fact that as a patient I was on bed surrounded not only by Covid patients but among the bodies as they were not removed for hours. You are cut off from your family, near and dear ones and doctors are impolite at times,” said Prasad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/two-covid-patients-end-life-in-24-hours-101622217143052.html
28-05-2021||Pune||Two held for physical assault of neighbours in Pune||Pune: The Wanowrie police have arrested two persons and booked three others for attacking their neighbours with bricks and injuring them in Tarawade vasti on Wednesday. According to the police, the accused family picked up a fight with Khandu Bhandare, who is a habitual drunkard. When Khandu’s father, Laxman Bhandare, intervened, they verbally abused the duo. Later, they attacked Khandu and his youngest son Sachin with sharp weapons. While the victims who had sustained head injuries reached Mohammadwadi police chowki to lodge an FIR, the accused attacked their house by throwing bricks. The arrested accused have been identified as Nilesh Edke (25) and Milind Edke (38), while three of their family members are at large. The police have booked them under IPC 143 (unlawful assembly), 147 (rioting), 148 (rioting armed with deadly weapon) ,149 (unlawful assembly with common intention),324 (voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous weapons), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 504 (intentional provocation), 336 (act so rashly or negligently as to endanger human life or the personal safety of others), Arms Act well as sections of the Epidemic Diseases Act and National Disaster Management Act. Sub-inspector and investigative officer Sandeep Varpade said that the absconding accused will be nabbed soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/two-held-for-physical-assault-of-neighbours-in-pune-101622213782803.html
28-05-2021||Dehradun||Ramdev fired 25 questions at IMA on allopathy. He gets a response||Dehradun: The Uttarakhand chapter of the Indian Medical Association on Friday responded to yoga guru Ramdev’s 25 questions designed to underscore limitations of the allopathic system of medicine, challenging experts from Patanjali Yogpeeth to a televised debate on allopathy.“In reply to the 25 questions raised by Ramdev in which he questioned the credibility and efficacy of allopathy, I have requested him to constitute a team of qualified and duly registered Ayurvedacharyas from Patanjali Yogpeeth to have a one-to-one discussion with a team of doctors of IMA Uttarakhand which has already been constituted by us,” IMA Uttarakhand’s secretary Dr Ajay Khanna said.The open discussion will be “closely monitored by electronic and print media” and will require Ramdev’s team to answer some questions from the IMA’s team too.Also Read: In BJP leader’s unusual advice to IMA, a biting critique of yoga guru Ramdev“Ramdev and his aide Balkrishan can also join the discussion but only as spectators as till date both have failed to show their qualifications despite... (the IMA asking for the documents) on three occasions,” said Dr Khanna. The IMA state secretary said Ramdev can pick the time; the IMA will decide the venue.This discussion will end the deadlock and the confusion created by the yoga guru in recent weeks, he said, a reference to a widely-circulated video in which Ramdev is accused of spreading misinformation about allopathic treatment, calling allopathic medicine a “stupid science” and questioning the effectiveness of Covid-19 vaccine. The IMA, which has alleged that the yoga guru was trying to promote Patanjali products, has filed police complaints against Ramdev, written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to seek action against him and sent a ₹1,000 crore defamation notice over the last few weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/ramdev-fired-25-questions-at-ima-on-allopathy-he-gets-a-response-101622213191027.html
28-05-2021||Other||7 oxygen plants in the works, Nuh readies for next Covid wave||Gurugram Seven oxygen plants will be set up in Nuh district in the next two months to ensure hospitals have adequate supply to take care of patients who are otherwise forced to travel to other districts and states for Covid-19 treatment. One plant has started operations while another is scheduled to begin generating oxygen from June 1, said officials on Thursday. Located 60 kilometres to the south of Gurugram, Nuh has reported 4,811 positive cases, with 132 patients in home isolation and 143 undergoing treatment in hospitals currently . Nuh deputy commissioner Dhirendra Khadgata said that oxygen plants of 1,000 litres per minute (LPM) and 500 LPM capacities are being set up in Nalhar Medical College and Mandikheda Hospital in collaboration with Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) and National Highways Authority of India (NHAI). While another oxygen plant has already been started by in Mandikheda, two others will be set up in community health centres (CHCs) in Tauru and Nuh. Two more plants will be set up in Shaheed Hasan Khan Mewati Government Medical College in Nalhar with the help of Indian Institute of Technology ( IIT) Kanpur, using corporate social responsibility (CSR) funds under Mission Bharat O2 which aims to develop indigenous solutions for solving India’s oxygen crisis amid the deadly second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. A senior official said that setting up a medical oxygen plant designed for a flow rate of 1,000 litres per minute (LPM) costs nearly ₹2 crore and a 500 LPM cost ₹1 crore. “The two plants coming up in CHCs in Tauru and Nuh, which will be readied through CSR, will have capacities of 500 LPM,” said Khadgata, adding that preparations to deal with the challenges ahead are underway so that they can reduce the dependence on oxygen from outside in the future. Khadgata said the seven plants, once operational, will cater to over 1,100 patients requiring oxygen beds. “We are now well prepared for a probable third wave. With these upcoming oxygen plants, we will be able to generate 3,650 LPM of oxygen in the district and will not be dependent on other sources,” he said.While the oxygen plants will be able to fill over than 500 cylinders per day, officials said these will be set up within the hospital premises to reduce the dependence on oxygen cylinders, as the plants will supply oxygen directly through pipeline to the beds. It will also help in reducing the time and cost involved in arranging the logistics of bringing oxygen from Palwal and Faridabad, said officials.Khadgata said the demand for medical oxygen went up by five times due to the surge in Covid-19 cases. “Installation of the in-house infrastructure by Covid facilities will go a long way in reducing the dependence on outside sources for medical oxygen, if a similar situation arises the in future,” he said. The central oxygen gas pipelines in Nalhar and Mandikhera are being laid by NHAI and the work is likely to get over by the end of this month, said officials. Khadgata said currently they have 279 oxygen beds in the district which will be increased to 1,300 by July end.”We have 196 oxygen beds in Nalhar medical college which will be increased to 450 with 80 ICU beds. Similarly, we have 35 oxygen beds in Mandekhera which will be increased to 100 with six ICUs. 100 oxygen beds will be ready in CHC Nuh and CHCTauru with 10 ICU beds,” he said. With 250 oxygen concentrators, portable beds are also available in the district, said officials. Presently 60% of patients admitted in Nuh are from Palwal and Alwar in Rajasthan due to lack of facilities in their areas. “Currently, Nuh’s positivity rate is 1.6%. In the past week, the cumulative rate was 1.74% , the lowest in the 22 districts of Haryana,” said Khadgata, adding that the district’s recovery rate (95.07%) and contact tracing (20%) is highest in the 22 districts. The fatality is also the lowest with only 95 deaths reported so far. Meanwhile, all suspected Covid cases are sent to village isolation centres for observation and further testing. Around 74,424 people above the age of 45 have been vaccinated so far. Khadgata said until Thursday, 261,804 samples have been collected out of which 253,691 people have tested negative. Results of 2,364 samples are awaited.Suresh Kumar, NHAI project director, said the two plants will be functional next month and together they will generate 1.5 ton of oxygen which will cater to 50 Covid patients. “With this the beds will be increased and nearby districts will benefit,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/7-oxygen-plants-in-the-works-nuh-readies-for-next-covid-wave-101622211742536.html
28-05-2021||Other||CSIR-NCL principal scientist Prasad appointed director of CeNS||PUNE BLV Prasad, senior principal scientist from the Physical and Materials Chemistry (PMC) division of CSIR-National Chemical Laboratory (CSIR-NCL) Pune, has been chosen as director of the Centre for Nano and Soft Matter Sciences (CeNS), Bengaluru. CeNS is an autonomous research institute under the Department of Science and Technology (DST), Government of India.Presently, Prasad is working as chairman of the CSIR-NCL division. He had his schooling and early education in Vijayawada, in Andhra Pradesh. He obtained a master’s in Science and PhD in Chemistry from Hyderabad Central University. After two post-doctoral stints, one at Tokyo Institute of Technology, Japan, and the second at the Kansas State University, United States, he joined CSIR-NCL in 2003. His department actively works in the general area of material synthesis and in particular nanoparticles and nanoscale materials. Prasad has been recognised with several awards that include the most recent Prof CNR Rao national prize for Chemical research, MRSI-ICSC Materials Science Annual Prize for 2020, a Young Career Award from the DST Nano Mission, a bronze medal from the Chemical Research Society of India in 2013, and the Raman Research Fellowship (CSIR) in 2012. He was admitted as a fellow of the Royal Society of Chemistry (London) in 2016.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/csirncl-principal-scientist-prasad-appointed-director-of-cens-101622210962464.html
28-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi to begin unlocking from May 31. Here’s what will be allowed||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announced on Friday that the national capital will start lifting lockdown measures gradually from Monday, May 31. Delhi went under lockdown on April 19, which was further extended a few times. Kejriwal cited the decreasing number of Covid-19 cases in the Capital as the reason for initiating the unlocking process, adding that the government has to ensure people don’t die of poverty after surviving the second wave of the pandemic.“Currently, there is no shortage of hospital beds, ICU and oxygen. So, we have to start the un-lockdown process. We should ensure that we don’t land in a position in which people survive Covid-19 but die of poverty,” Kejriwal said in a press briefing on Friday.The chief minister urged people not to step out unless absolutely necessary, cautioning that even though the government is not in favour of a lockdown but if Covid-19 cases start to rise again such measures will have to be re-implemented.The following activities have been allowed to commence from May 31.1. The Delhi government has prioritised the weakest economic section in its un-lock mandate. The process will be starting with the opening up of the construction sector.2. Factories will also start opening up from May 31, earlier only factories producing Covid-19 essentials like face masks, sanitisers, PPE kits were allowed to remain operational.3. Kejriwal said the lockdown process is aimed at helping migrant labourers and daily wage workers thus the two sectors where they constitute the majority of the workforce have been allowed to open first.4. HT reported last week that the government has not maintained any data on the number of migrant workers who had left Delhi by train but some 8,00,000 had left for their villages on inter-state buses. According to news agency ANI on Friday, the migrant workforce has started to come back to the Capital and buses arriving at Anand Vihar and Kashmere Gate terminals were occupied by those returning from their villages for work.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-to-begin-unlocking-from-may-31-here-s-what-will-be-allowed-101622206827797.html
28-05-2021||Delhi||Air India flight returns mid-air to Delhi after bat found in plane||In an unusual incident, an Air India flight which had taken off from Delhi airport early on Thursday returned back after the pilot reported presence of bat to Air Traffic Control (ATC).Air India flight to Newark (EWR) left Delhi's IGI Airport at 2:20 am as scheduled. The bat was spotted after the plane was in the air for about 30 minutes. The flight captain decided to take the plane back to the original base (Delhi)."AI-105 DEL-EWR returned back to base (Delhi) after departure due to this local standby emergency was declared. On arrival, it was learnt that a bat was seen inside the cabin by crew members. Wildlife staff were called to catch and remove the bat from cabin. The aircraft landed safely at around 3:55 am. Later flight was declared Aircraft on Grounded (AoG)," Air India officials told ANI.DGCA officials said fumigation was carried out and bat carcass was retrieved from the aircraft."Air India B777-300ER aircraft VT-ALM operating Flight AI - 105 (Delhi- Newark) was involved in air-turn-back due to bat reported in the cabin by cabin crew after departure. Fuel was jettisoned and the aircraft landed safely at Delhi. After landing fumigation was carried out and a dead bat carcass was retrieved from seat 8DEF area," a senior DGCA official told ANI.He said the bat was found dead inside the plane in the business class area.The incident was reported to the airline's flight safety department for a detailed investigation.Sources said the airline has asked the engineering team for a detailed report on the incident.The Air India engineering team submitted its initial report to flight safety and stated that unwanted mammals came from third parties."The probable reason/cause may be loading vehicles like those for catering because all the time rats/bats come from their vehicle only," an Air India official told ANI.The passengers were shifted to another plane and Air India flight AI-105 landed in Newark at 11:35 am local time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/air-india-flight-returns-mid-air-to-delhi-after-bat-found-in-plane-101622206290937.html
28-05-2021||City||Another associate of Sushil Kumar arrested in wrestler murder case||The Delhi Police have arrested another associate of two-time Olympic medalist Sushil Kumar in connection with the murder of a 23-year-old wrestler at Chhatrasal Stadium earlier this month, news agency ANI reported on Friday. Vijender alias Binder, who is also a wrestler, was arrested in connection with Sagar Rana's death, taking the number of people arrested to nine, including wrestler Sushil Kumar, till now.The Delhi Police another associate of Kumar, Rohit Karor, earlier in the day arrested in connection with the alleged murder at Chhatrasal Stadium. "Karor was present at the Chhatrasal Stadium when the incident took place," the police said, according to news agency ANI. Earlier, the police issued a non-bailable warrant against Kakor and Binder.Rana died and two of his friends were injured after they were allegedly assaulted by Kumar and others inside the stadium. The incident took place late on May 4 over a dispute related to a property located in Delhi's Model Town.Kumar, a prime suspect in the case, and his associate Ajay Bakkarwala were arrested by a team of Special Cell of the Delhi Police on May 23 from the Mundka area of the national capital, following which a Delhi court granted six days of police custody to Kumar. The Delhi Police's crime branch is investigating the case.(With inputs from ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/another-associate-of-sushil-kumar-arrested-in-wrestler-murder-case-101622203879899.html
28-05-2021||Jaipur||BJP MP Ranjeeta Koli’s car attacked in Bharatpur, BJP hits out at Gehlot govt||Bharatpur: Bharatiya Janata Party lawmaker Ranjeeta Koli’s car was forced to stop and the rear windshield smashed by six goons shortly late on Thursday evening in Bharatpur, nearly 200 km from Rajasthan capital Jaipur, the Lok Sabha member told the police.The Lok Sabha MP said the unidentified attackers hurled a brick at her car and attacked the car with iron rods, presumably to intimidate them.“We all were safe but the car was damaged in the attack. I fainted but my security guard saved us. We have no enemy who wants to kill me,” the 41-year-old lawmaker said after the attack that provoked her party to amp up its criticism of the Ashok Gehlot government.Former chief minister Vasundhara Raje said the attack on the MP reflected the deteriorating law and order situation and contradicted the Congress government’s claims that women in the state are safe. “In reality, anarchy has only grown under the shield of political patronage,” she said, demanding that the police should track down down the culprits and take stringent action against themRanjeeta Koli said the car was intercepted and attacked near Dharsoni village on Hantara-Weir road at about 11.30pm when she was returning after visiting the Raj Bahadur Memorial hospital.A personal security officer, her brother, and two others were in the car when the incident took place.The first-time MP was taken to the district hospital for a check up and first-aid. She later returned to the circuit house.Bharatpur superintendent of police Devendra Kumar Bishnoi said a police team was rushed to soon after being informed about the incident. ”We have registered a case against unknown accused who attacked the MP. All accused will be identified and arrested soon,” he said.The MP told the police that she had been visiting health centers and hospitals in her constituency district to see the management for patients during a Covid-19 crisis.Rajasthan health minister Dr Subhash Garg told the police to arrest the goons and assured her that she would get better treatment and security.Ranjeeta Koli, a first-time MP, won the seat by a margin of over 300,000 votes. Her father-in-law Ganga Ram Koli was a three-time BJP MP from Bayana-Dholpur Lok Sabha seat.Rajasthan BJP president Satish Poonia said the Bharatpur MP during her recent inspections had exposed inadequate arrangements at CHCs (Community Health Centers). Leader of the opposition in the assembly, Gulab Chand Kataria, described the attack on the lawmaker as a matter of grave concern.“The manner in which she was attacked at a secluded corner in the night while visiting hospitals raises alarming questions. I have spoken to IG Bharatpur about the case. The government and the police should investigate this case diligently,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/bjp-mp-ranjeeta-koli-s-car-attacked-in-bharatpur-bjp-hits-out-at-gehlot-govt-101622205802426.html
28-05-2021||Other||Nagaland extends lockdown till June 11||The Nagaland government on Friday announced it would extend the ongoing statewide total lockdown till June 11. The state’s high power committee decided to extend the lockdown on the basis of the health and family welfare department’s advisory, government spokesperson on Covid-19, MLA Mmhonlumo Kikon said .With 228 new cases reported on Thursday, the state’s total caseload now stands at 21,023 with 4,941 active cases and 326 deaths.Nagaland went into lockdown from May 14, restricting all activities except for essential services and movement of goods. Also Read | Lockdown norms to be relaxed partially in Delhi from MondayHowever, with an increase in Covid-19 cases and related deaths, the government activated strict community surveillance even in rural areas, while in urban areas like Kohima and Dimapur, different colonies are imposing stricter rules on the movement of people except for emergency services.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/nagaland-extends-lockdown-till-june-11-101622205322401.html
28-05-2021||Kolkata||‘Took his permission’: Mamata on skipping Yaas review meeting with PM Modi||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee said on Friday she could not attend the review meeting called by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to assess the damage caused by Cyclone Yaas in the state and that she was scheduled to meet with officials in another area of the state.“The Prime Minister called a meeting. We did not know that I had a meeting scheduled in Digha. I handed him the report asking for ₹20,000 crore for Digha development and ₹10,000 crore for Sundarban development. I told him that state government officials had a meeting with me so I took his permission and left,” Mamata Banerjee was quoted as saying by news agency ANI. West Bengal chief minister also said she will conduct an aerial survey of the state on Saturday.“After having review meetings in Hingalganj and Sagar, I met the Hon’ble PM in Kalaikunda and apprised him regarding the post-cyclone situation in WB. The disaster report has been handed over for his perusal. I’ve proceeded now to review the relief and restoration work at Digha,” Mamata also tweeted.News agency ANI reported that the West Bengal chief minister and the state’s chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay were late to the meeting by almost half an hour, citing people familiar with the developments. They also told the news agency that she handed over the reports related to the impact of Cyclone Yaas and left saying that she has other meetings lined up.Prime Minister Modi also held a review meeting with Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik, Union ministers Dharmendra Pradhan and Pratap Sarangi and Odisha governor Ganeshi Lal to assess the damage caused by Yaas. PM Modi also conducted an aerial survey of Balasore and Bhadrak in Odisha and Kalaikunda in West Bengal, areas which suffered the brunt of the cyclone. He announced financial assistance worth ₹1000 crore for immediate relief activities of which ₹500 crore would be immediately given to Odisha and another ₹500 crore for West Bengal and Jharkhand, which will be released on the basis of the damage, according to the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO). The PMO said that inter-ministerial teams will assess damages in Bengal as well as Odisha to assess following which the assistance will be given.Cyclone Yaas which reached wind speeds 145kmph lashed India’s eastern coast on Wednesday. Three people died due to the cyclone in Odisha and one in West Bengal as Yaas left behind a trail of destruction and forced at least 2.1 million people to be evacuated to safe shelters in West Bengal, Odisha and Jharkhand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/took-his-permission-mamata-on-skipping-yaas-review-meeting-with-pm-modi-101622203891921.html
28-05-2021||Lucknow||BJP and Cong in political tug of war over Covid-19 relief in Amethi, Rae Bareli||The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Congress are engaged in an outreach campaign Amethi and Rae Bareli, two politically important constituencies in Uttar Pradesh, with the two parties appearing keen to be seen as the primary caretakers and providers of help amid the pandemic.While the BJP is aiming to build on its relatively recent electoral gains, the Congress is desperate to reclaim lost ground.The Uttar Pradesh assembly elections are due early next year and experts believe these polls could have an impact on the 2024 Lok Sabha polls.The Congress’ first family, the Gandhis, have been representing the two constituencies for decades. Despite its surprise loss from Amethi in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, the party retains Rae Bareli, which the BJP has now set its sights on. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi lost the Amethi Lok Sabha seat to Union minister Smriti Irani in 2019. It was only the third time when the party lost its citadel.The Congress has now targeted Irani, claiming she had been missing throughout the pandemic when Amethi needed her the most.The BJP hit back, saying Irani was active as well as connected with the people, helping them through Covid helplines, ration kits and hospitalisation.The Yogi Adityanath government in the state has already sanctioned a Covid testing laboratory in Amethi, which officials said would also help people of the adjoining regions of Rae Bareli, Sultanpur and Pratapgarh – territories once dominated by the Congress.Also read: Rajasthan CM rubbishes BJP claims of vaccine wastage in stateEarly in May, Smriti rushed to Amethi after BJP MLA Dal Bahadur Kori from Salon died of post-Covid complications. Salon is an assembly segment under Amethi Lok Sabha, parts of which are also spread into Rae Bareli, the only surviving Congress bastion in the state.“She reviews the Covid situation in her constituency almost daily. A Covid response WhatsApp group has been set up with Irani, her representative Vijay Gupta, the district BJP chief and two members from each Vidhan Sabha (constituency), also in there,” a BJP leader said.Assembly-constituency wise helpline numbers, too, were issued, party leaders said.“With just about nine months to go for 2022 UP assembly polls, the exercise is significant for both the BJP and the Congress. The Congress, having lost eight of the 10 assembly seats that make up Amethi and Rae Bareli Lok Sabha constituencies, - and since then has seen remaining two MLAs veer towards BJP - is now desperate to reclaim lost political space in territories that were regarded as its family bastions, but the BJP wouldn’t want to give in so easily either,” said professor Manuka Khanna, Lucknow University.Despite the BJP capturing political space, Congress has been active too with party leaders distributing ration kits, running ambulance services and arranging for sanitisation.Congress leaders said the Gandhis had a familial bond with these constituencies, one that was above victory or defeat.“There are specific instructions from Rahul Gandhiji to ensure help for all of Amethi. He has been regularly sending oxygen concentrators and cylinders for Amethi and now efforts are underway to ensure sanitisation of all houses for which 10,000 litres of hypochlorite solution would soon be made available,” Congress district unit chief Pradeep Singhal said. The party has also sent face covers to be distributed among people in Amethi.Both parties are putting in a similar effort in Rae Bareli, where the BJP had fielded Congress MLC Dinesh Pratap Singh against party chief Sonia Gandhi in 2019 Lok Sabha polls. Sonia Gandhi had convincingly defeated her former party man, but the win in Amethi has made BJP ambitious, party leaders admit.Uttar Pradesh deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma, who visited Rae Bareli earlier this week, had said oxygen plants would be functional soon in the district.“We are taking complete care of people, from oxygen to availability of hospital beds, medicines, ration kits,” Sharma said. Congress claims the party leadership has been silently helping the people.“On being told that poor people were burying their dead by the riverside rather than cremating them, Soniaji sent three truckloads of wood for all three cremation grounds of Rae Bareli. She also provided ₹1.17 crore from the MLPAD fund to help better health infrastructure,” a Congress leader said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/bjp-cong-in-political-tug-of-war-over-covid-19-relief-in-amethi-rae-bareli-101622204459203.html
28-05-2021||Mumbai||Malavika’s Mumbaistan: Across The Universe||Even before Kabir Bedi had shoe-horned his way into The Beatles’ Delhi hotel suite as a 20-year-old rookie reporter for an interview, it was obvious that he was destined to lead an extraordinary life, almost like the protagonist of one of Salman Rushdie’s magic realism novels, or Zelig, Woody Allen’s hero, who has an uncanny knack of turning up at history’s most pivotal moments.Consider his background — born a year before Independence as one of the off-springs of the extraordinary marriage of two Oxford undergrads, both deeply involved in India’s freedom struggle; Kabir‘s mother Freda was an English rose who had fallen in love with Baba Pyare Lal Bedi (BPL), a dashing left-leaning descendant of Guru Nanak, the founder of Sikhism. His parents’ ideological commitment saw Kabir grow up amid some of the founding fathers of new India. From Nehru and Gandhi who co-opted Freda into satyagraha, to Sheikh Abdullah who invited BPL to reside in Srinagar and draft the first constitution of independent Kashmir, to the likes of Teji Bachchan, Inder and Satish Gujral and Khuswant Singh, Kabir’s exposure to the leading minds of his time was remarkable. And if this was not enough to set him apart, there was his parent’s astonishing spiritual transformations during his teens — first his mother who became the highest-ordained nun in Tibetan Buddhism and a key figure in its introduction to the West, and then his father whose sudden mystical awakening led him to healing, auto-writing and speaking in tongues. *********************************************************************************But as he writes in the very first chapter of Stories I Must Tell: The Emotional Life of An Actor, even with all this as a background, Kabir’s life might have not spun into the stuff of legend had it not been for that fanboy Beatles moment and its subsequent fall-out. Because, shortly after his triumph, came the tragedy — with legendary inefficiency, All India Radio had recorded over his interview, deleting it for posterity. For the Stephen College history major and childhood friend of Rajiv and Sanjay Gandhi, with his debating acumen honed among the likes of Kapil Sibal and Montek Singh Ahluwalia, it had been proven to be the last straw. With ₹700 in his pocket, he’d caught the first train out of Delhi to seek his fortunes in Mumbai. To begin with, landing a stint at Lintas as an ad filmmaker while attracting acclaim as a model and voice over artist in the Bombay of the Seventies, was not a long stretch for the 6’2” Delhi hunk, said to have the looks of a Greek god. Neither was his subsequent break as the lead in Alyque Padamsee’s production of Girish Karnad’s Tughlaq and subsequent debut in Bollywood, or his marriage to the vivacious Protima Gupta. To be sure, his Bollywood avatar and his life as a member of the famous Juhu Gang, his affair with the industry’s top actress Parveen Babi and his mind boggling, unimaginable stardom following his role as the pirate Sandokan on Italian TV (which saw him land a role in the Bond franchise, and later in iconic TV series such as the Bold and the Beautiful), and his four marriages on three continents have been the stuff of tabloid headlines. *********************************************************************************Kabir says he always knew he had a great story to tell and that he had thought about writing his autobiography for decades. But all his attempts had landed in the bin. The pandemic had afforded him time to think afresh. “My book was bursting to come out of me, an unborn baby pushing with its legs,” he says. One morning, he had an epiphany on how to approach it and cocooned and encouraged by his devoted wife, Parveen Dusanj, he had worked like a maniac, all day, every day, for six months until he had the first draft of a manuscript. And what a labour of love it’s been, page after page bristling with sparkling stories from the vastness and scope of an extraordinary life. From his experiences as a child monk in Burma, to encounters with Gina Lollobrigida and Fellini, Krishnamurthy, Audrey Hepburn and Lady Diana, Kabir has written with a rare honesty, courage and sensitivity, not usually associated with those in showbiz. *********************************************************************************But for all the jaw-dropping glamour of his tryst with the Bond franchise, beautiful women, and Bollywood’s jet set, what is most captivating in the book, surprisingly, is the chapter in which Kabir ruminates about the deeper questions of his life. Titled Ramblings On A Beach, it begins with a short story he’d penned as an idealistic 29-year-old. “There are seekers like me. The ones who question everything, who look for deeper answers, who want to know ‘the Truth’,” he writes, before dwelling on the many streams of spirituality that have run through his life — Sikhism, Buddhism, Christianity, West coast movements like EST and new-age philosophers like Osho and Deepak Chopra. It is here that Kabir shares a hard-earned wisdom: “The honey of material achievement — money, fame, success and beautiful women — didn’t give me the answers,” says the man whose life could be the fantasy of many a young boy. Because for all his outward material successes of being Knighted, lionised, mobbed and adored by a slew of impossibly glamorous women, Kabir is unafraid to share his downsides. He doesn’t shrink away from writing about his brilliant techie son Siddharth’s suicide, nor the unravelling of his marriages nor his financial tribulations. And yet, from the chiaroscuro of Kabir’s deeply introspective book, hidden patterns emerge which one hopes will give rise to more of his writing. Such as the poignant coincidence of two of the famous women he had once loved (wife Protima and paramour Persis Khambatta) dying suddenly and inexplicably, on exactly the same day. Such as how two of his most cherished, his son and Parveen Babi, ended up tragically suffering from the same debilitating affliction of schizophrenia. Such as how in spite of all his wild spiritual and personal ramblings across the globe, this descendant of Guru Nanak has finally found happiness and fulfilment in marriage to a fellow Sikh, and what’s more, has set up home with her in his beloved Juhu, not far from where he’d once lived. And last but not the least, such as how a rookie fan boy, out to score an interview with the legendary Beatles, ended up receiving the same traffic-stopping, unbridled, out-of-control adulation from fans on the streets of Europe, one day, himself.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/malavikas-mumbaistan-across-the-universe-101622203582428.html
28-05-2021||Jaipur||HC directs Rajasthan govt to submit report on vaccination of Pak migrants||The Rajasthan High Court on Friday directed the state government to submit a detailed report on June 3, complying with the standard operating procedure (SOP) issued by the Central government to vaccinate the migrants group from Pakistan.The court also said the state should ensure that ration material and food packets are made available to all needy Pakistani minority migrants residing in various districts in Rajasthan either through the food supplies department, local bodies or the NGOs.In the division bench of Justice Vijay Bishnoi and Justice Rameshwar Vyas, Assistant Solicitor General Mukesh Rajpurohit filed an affidavit wherein it is stated that the Central government issued a detailed SOP on Covid-19 vaccination of those without prescribed identity cards through the CoWIN app on May 6 and that after receiving the requisite information from the state and district administration regarding the groups included in the SOP, the vaccines will be provided to them.The SOP states that the district task force may identify such groups of persons in respective districts without any of the prescribed individual photo ID cards with assistance from the concerned government departments/organisations, such as the department of minority affairs, social justice, social welfare, etc.Information regarding the identified groups and the number of beneficiaries must be covered, collated at the state level and the state government must issue clear instructions for the implementation of these SOPs along with the district-wise estimated maximum number of doses to be administered using this special dispensation.However, during the hearing, Additional Advocate General (AAG) Karan Singh Rajpurohit told the court that around 25,000 Pakistani minority migrants are residing in Rajasthan across various districts at present.“Every Pakistani minority migrant does not need free ration and food because many of the families are self-sufficient. It is further submitted that the district administrations are taking note of the situation and will ensure that no such person will be deprived of ration or food during the period of lockdown,” he said.He added, “So far, as the Covid-19 vaccination of the Pakistani minority migrants is concerned, SOP issued by the Central government is silent regarding the Pakistani minority migrants and, therefore, clarifications are being sought from the Central government regarding the vaccination of Pakistani minority migrants who have not been granted citizenship till date.”“We are of the opinion that the SOP on Covid-19 vaccination of persons without prescribed identity cards through CoWIN issued by the Central government is elaborate and in no way excluding the Pakistani minority migrants who are eligible for Covid-19 vaccination. We have also noticed that several directions regarding the identification of groups of people including in the SOP have been given but the state has not submitted any details regarding the identification of such groups,” the bench said.AAG Rajpurohit sought some time to furnish details regarding the steps taken by the state across districts as per the procedure given in Clause 5 of the SOP.Welcoming the court’s order, Hindu Singh Sodha, president of Seemant Lok Sangathan, which is fighting for the rights of Pakistani migrants, said, “we had been demanding this for a long time. Now we have hope”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/hc-directs-rajasthan-govt-to-submit-report-on-vaccination-of-pak-migrants-101622203102014.html
28-05-2021||Delhi||Slight rise in Delhi's daily Covid cases at 1,141, positivity rate up to 1.59%||Delhi’s daily tally of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) witnessed a marginal rise on Friday as 1,141 new cases were recorded in the last 24 hours, taking the caseload to 1,423,690, according to the health department’s bulletin. As many as 139 people succumbed to the viral disease in the same period and the Capital’s death toll climbed to 23,951 and active cases of Covid-19 dropped below the 15,000-mark at 14,581.The positivity rate on Friday also went up to 1.59%. The total cumulative figure of recoveries in the national capital rose to 1,385,158 after 2,799 people recovered on Friday—926 less than that of Thursday’s when 3,725 were cured of the viral disease, the bulletin also showed.Nearly 72,000 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours of which 47,917 are RT-PCR/CBNAAT/TrueNat tests while the remaining 23,936 are rapid antigen tests. The number of infected patients under home isolation has declined to 7,111 and the containment zones have also reduced to 22,701, according to the health department’s bulletin.As the overall Covid-19 situation has been improving in Delhi for the past few weeks due to the result of the complete lockdown, the Aam Aadmi Party-led government announced on Friday that the unlocking process will begin from May 31.Delhi reports 1141 new #COVID19 cases, 2799 recoveries and 139 deaths in the last 24 hours.Total cases 14,23,690Total recoveries 13,85,158Death toll 23,951Active cases 14,581Positivity rate 7.46%Case Fatality Rate 1.68% pic.twitter.com/Pgwn8a2m2v“The ongoing lockdown will apply till 5am Monday. And then the un-lockdown process will start. The decision was taken today in the meeting of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA),” chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said while addressing a press conference. “In the un-lockdown process, our priority will be the weakest economic sections. So, we will start with labourers, especially migrant labourers. Most of them are engaged either in the construction sector or in factories. So, we will open these two sectors from this Monday,” Kejriwal said.The AAP leader added that restrictions will be relaxed in a phased manner as the balance has to be maintained between controlling the spread of Covid-19 and allowing economic activities. “It should not be the case where people escape Covid-19 but die of hunger …But we have to remember that the fight against Covid-19 is still not over. We have to make sure that things do not go bad again. So, the relaxations have to happen in a phased way,” he said.Also Read| Centre creating 'artificial scarcity' to favour SII, Bharat Biotech, says AAPThe lockdown was first imposed by the Delhi government on April 19, when the national capital was clocking between 23,000-28,000 Covid-19 cases daily. As per the order, only essential services and government offices are allowed to function while employees of private offices are asked to work from Home. Shopping malls, auditoriums, movie theatres, gyms remain closed and only shops selling groceries, dairies, and essential items are open.During the initial days of lockdown, hundreds of migrant workers were seen leaving Delhi and going back to their native places. They alleged that the government didn’t give sufficient time before shutting Delhi.Meanwhile, 39,173 people were vaccinated against Covid-19 in the last 24 hours, taking the total figure to 5,258,545 so far. Vaccination for beneficiaries between 18-44 years is currently halted amid a severe crunch in the supply of doses, according to the AAP government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-sees-slight-rise-in-daily-covid-cases-at-1-141-tally-over-14-23-million-101622202100700.html
28-05-2021||Bhopal||Raped in front of kids, says Dalit woman. Her husband had refused to cut a tree||Bhopal/Sagar: A pregnant woman, her two children and mother-in-law were abducted, thrashed and tortured for four days in Madhya Pradesh after her husband, also a Dalit, refused to cut a tree at the farm of the accused, police said.The Dalit family in Chhatarpur district , 350 km from state capital Bhopal. was rescued on Wednesday after a local journalist tipped off the police. The prime suspect, described as a village muscleman, was arrested on Thursday. His two accomplices are on the run.On Thursday, the woman told reporters that she was also raped by the village muscleman but the police had skipped mentioning this crime in the First Information Report. The three accused, named in the FIR, have been accused of causing hurt, kidnapping, obscenity and the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocity) Act.Sachin Sharma, superintendent of police Chhatarpur, said they will add relevant sections relating to rape in the FIR in view of the woman’s disclosure before the media.“The woman has injury marks on her body and in her complaint, she informed police about physical torture only. She didn’t inform us about any sexual assault but if she is saying, we will add the section of rape in the FIR,” Sachin Sharma, superintendent of police, Chhatarpur district, said.Rajnagar police station in-charge Pankaj Sharma said the prime suspect had summoned a 32-year-old labourer, a Dalit, to his farm to cut some trees. But he refused, reportedly on the grounds that he was not feeling well. The labourer was beaten up to punish him but he eventually managed to run away.“Later, the accused reached the labourer’s house and beat his pregnant wife, two kids and mother. The accused abducted them and tortured them for four days,” Sharma said.The police officer said a local journalist heard about the incident and informed the police.“Police rescued them on Wednesday and admitted them to a local hospital from where they have been discharged,” Sharma said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/raped-in-front-of-kids-says-dalit-woman-her-husband-had-refused-to-cut-a-tree-101622202072799.html
28-05-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan CM rubbishes BJP claims of vaccine wastage in state||Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Friday rubbished the allegations from Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) that the state had wasted 1.15 million Covid vaccine doses. “By levelling such allegations, the BJP is working to break the morale of our Corona warriors, who have been working for 14 months now. I will appeal to the leaders of the Opposition not to do such negative politics during the time of pandemic,” he tweeted. Senior BJP leaders, including Union minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, have alleged that Rajasthan has wasted 1.15 million [11.5 lakh] vaccine doses.He said according to the data recorded on the CoWIN app, 16,367,230 people have been vaccinated in the state till May 26. Of these, 338,000 doses were wasted, which is just 2%. This is much lower than the national average of 6% and the 10% of wastage permitted by the Government of India. Also Read | Ensure more Covid-19 vaccines are available to states: Rajasthan CM GehlotThe chief minister attributed this incorrect figure to technical glitches in eVIN, the software for tracking vaccination. For this reason, the total number of vaccines on eVIN was stated to be 17,001,220, which is not correct, he said. Similarly, he pointed out, Chhattisgarh and Jharkhand were also reported to have recorded vaccine wastage of 30.2% and 37.3%, respectively. However, he said, the chief ministers and health ministers of both the states reported 0.95% and 4.65% wastage respectively. “It seems that in the time of the epidemic, the Central government is deliberately trying to mislead the public,” he said. He pointed out that in the May 21 video conference, Union health minister Harsh Vardhan had admitted to technical glitches in CoWIN, leading to inflated percentages. Gehlot said Harsh Vardhan had then assured the states that the Centre would discuss the issue with individual states to get the correct figures before releasing the data. He said that the BJP-led Centre failed to provide the vaccine and was trying to shift the blame on the states. “I will appeal to the Opposition leaders in Rajasthan to pressure the Centre in the interest of the state, so that we get more doses of the vaccine. The Centre should also ensure free universal vaccination. Rajasthan tops the country in vaccination and will continue to do its best work even further,” said the CM. However, BJP spokesperson Mukesh Pareek insisted that the CM should accept that a large quantity of vaccine doses were wasted in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-cm-rubbishes-bjp-claims-of-vaccine-wastage-in-state-101622201652435.html
28-05-2021||Jaipur||‘Deliberate attempts being made to mislead public’: Rajasthan CM Gehlot on BJP’s claim of vaccine wastage||The war of words between the Bharatiya Janata Party-led central government and states is intensifying over the wastage of the vaccine doses against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). This time, Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot refuted BJP’s allegations that 1.15 million vaccine doses have been wasted in the state.In a statement in Hindi on Twitter on Friday, Gehlot said that as per the CoWin platform, 16,367,230 people have been vaccinated against the viral disease till May 26 in the state. Of these 338,000 doses were wasted which is 2%, he said adding that this is much lower than the national average of 6% and the Centre’s limit of 10%.“At the beginning of the vaccination drive in Rajasthan, there were technical errors reported in the eVIN software -created for tracking inoculations- due to which there was double-entry of 295,000 doses at several vaccination centres. And hence, the total doses administered showed as 17,001,220 on the software, which is incorrect. Only 338,000 doses have been wasted,” the Rajasthan chief minister said in the statement.प्रदेश में कोविड वैक्सीन की 11.5 लाख डोज़ बर्बाद होने की खबर झूठी है। BJP ऐसे झूठे आरोप लगाकर 14 महीने से मेहनत कर रहे हमारे कोरोना वॉरियर्स का मनोबल तोड़ने का काम कर रही है जो निंदनीय है। मैं विपक्ष के नेताओं से अपील करूंगा कि महामारी के समय ऐसी नकारात्मक राजनीति ना करें। pic.twitter.com/q4sEvnDzR8Gehlot also reminded that during the review meeting of states with Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan on May 21, he accepted that there were technical issues with the Centre’s vaccine portal due to which the vaccine wastage figures were showing inflated. “Dr Vardhan himself assured that the Centre will speak to states and then only it will present the figures of vaccine wastage,” Gehlot said.Also Read| Over 224.6 million Covid vaccine doses provided to states, UTs so far: CentreGehlot pointed out that by presenting forged figures, deliberate attempts are being made by the BJP to mislead the public during the ongoing second wave of the pandemic. “We all are working together to manage Covid-19, but the BJP is trying to bring down the morale of corona warriors who have been working hard to combat the virus for the last 14 months.”He accused the Centre of failing to make vaccines available due to its wrong policies and appealed to all opposition leaders in Rajasthan to pressurise the Centre to provide more doses to the state rather than creating disputes.Rajasthan has so far inoculated 16,426,346 people of which 13,361,360 have received the first dose and the remaining 3,064,986 with both doses. For weeks, the state has flagged a severe shortage of doses due to which the vaccination drive has slowed down significantly. Health minister Raghu Sharma said on Thursday that the Centre had only allocated just over 1.26 million doses for June while the state needs 70 million doses for vaccinating beneficiaries between the ages of 18 and 44.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-cm-dismisses-bjp-s-claim-of-1-15-million-vaccines-wasted-in-state-101622200600409.html
28-05-2021||Delhi||Centre creating 'artificial scarcity' to favour SII, Bharat Biotech, says AAP||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) hit out at the Centre on Friday accusing it of creating an artificial scarcity of vaccines against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) to favour the Serum Institute of India (SII) and Bharat Biotech, a charge denied by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). AAP’s spokesperson Atishi said at a press briefing that due to the “artificial scarcity” of vaccines, states have been left with no option but to rely on these two domestic manufacturers."The Centre created such an artificial scarcity that states have to buy from them only. The Centre should respond to this," she said.Atishi said the World Health Organization (WHO) and many countries in the world approved the vaccines produced by Moderna, Pfizer, and Johnson and Johnson by December 2020 but the Centre dragged its feet in issuing emergency authorisation to them. “Why were these three vaccines not given emergency authorisation? If WHO can approve them, why can't India? This clearly shows that the Centre has created this artificial scarcity to favour Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech," she said."Many vaccines are being approved across the world. Pfizer vaccine has been approved in 85 countries, Moderna vaccine has been approved in 46 countries and J&J is approved in 41 countries,” she stated.The AAP spokesperson also claimed that neither Bharat Biotech nor SII possesses the capacity to mass manufacture the required number of vaccine doses to inoculate the entire population of the country. “The central government has to answer why in the midst of a pandemic they are indulging in a vaccination scam,” she said before concluding the press briefing.The BJP’s Delhi unit spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor reacted against the AAP’s claims. Kapoor told news agency PTI that neither Bharat Biotech nor SII has anything to gain from a scarcity of vaccines since a scarcity would entail the entry of foreign manufacturers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/centre-creating-artificial-scarcity-to-favour-sii-bharat-biotech-says-aap-101622200879021.html
28-05-2021||Mumbai||Czech Republic vaccine supplier opts out of BMC tender race, 7 firms currently in the fray||A vaccine supplier from Czech Republic, which had submitted bid to supply Pfizer and AstraZeneca Covid-19 shots to the Mumbai civic body, has withdrawn its proposal, leaving seven firms in the fray as of now, BMC officials said on Friday.On May 12, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) floated a global expression of interest (EOI) to procure one crore Covid-19 vaccine doses from the open market.Earlier this week, the BMC extended the deadline for submitting bids till June 1 (from May 25 earlier) though it had received positive response from eight firms for supplying Covid-19 vaccines, one of them from Czech Republic.The Czech Republic-based vaccine supplier, through an email, informed the BMC about the withdrawal of its proposal on Wednesday, the officials said.Therefore, only seven suppliers offering Russia-made Sputnik V (double dose) and Sputnik Light (single shot) vaccines are in the race, they said."The (Czech Republic) supplier has taken back its proposal," confirmed P Velarasu, additional municipal commissioner.Earlier this week, municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal had informed mediapersons that the BMC had received eight bids so far in response to its EOI for procurement of 1 crore vaccine doses."One bid is for Pfizer/AstraZeneca and the remaining 7 bids are for Sputnik," he had said, adding the EOI deadline has been extended by one week to enable other bidders to submit all relevant documents in support of their proposals.Chahal had not named the bidders.According to the BMC, a total of 30,90,130 citizens in Mumbai have been administered Covid-19 vaccines since the inoculation drive started on January 16.So far, 23,47,157 people have been administered the first dose, while 7,42,973 have received both the doses, the civic body said.The BMC said a total of 41,130 people were inoculated on Thursday and 2,283 of them took the second dose of the vaccine.Presently, Mumbai has 331 active inoculation centres that include 235 run by the BMC, 20 by the Maharashtra government and 76 by private hospitals.As many as 55,910 people can be vaccinated in these centres per day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/czech-republic-vaccine-supplier-opts-out-of-bmc-tender-race-7-firms-currently-in-the-fray-101622199758054.html
28-05-2021||Delhi||68% jump in Take Home Ration scheme beneficiaries since last year: DCPCR||Around 91% of the beneficiaries of the Take Home Ration scheme of the Delhi government said they received ration this year as compared to 23% during the last lockdown, a survey has revealed. Delhi Commission For Protection of Child Rights (DCPCR) said they conducted an independent survey to evaluate the distribution of Take Home Ration (THR) through Anganwadis under Integrated Child Development Scheme (ICDS). “As per the latest round of survey result, 91% of the beneficiaries reported that they are receiving nutritional supplements. This is a remarkable improvement from May 2020 when only 23% of the beneficiaries surveyed had received the ration,” the commission said in a statement. Also Read | Government’s helplines for us found wanting, say migrant workersThe scheme was announced last year by the Women and Child Development department under which lactating mothers and children below six years of age received nutritional supplements from Anganwadi centres. Under the scheme, children were given 1300gm of dalia, 260gm of black channa (raw), 130gm of jaggery and 130gm roasted black gram. Pregnant women received 1690gm of dalia, 260gm of black channa (raw), 130gm of jaggery and 130gm roasted black gram. During a surprise inspection last year, women and child development minister Rajendra Pal Gautam found several irregularities in the implementation of the scheme. “After a series of inspections in June 2020, the minister ordered immediate action and suspension of two Anganwadi workers and a supervisor. The minister had also ordered an audit of all ration distribution centres,” the commission said in a statement, adding that the subsequent monitoring of the scheme helped in plugging the gaps. “Since last year, DCPCR has been conducting several rounds of surveys to assess the distribution of ‘Take Home Ration’ for lactating mothers and children under the age of 6 years. Through the recent survey, it was found that there has been a consistent yet significant improvement in ration distribution,” the statement added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/68-jump-in-take-home-ration-scheme-beneficiaries-since-last-year-dcpcr-101622200272521.html
28-05-2021||Mumbai||Amitabh Bachchan buys apartment worth ₹31 cr, pays ₹62 lakh as stamp duty||Veteran actor and Bollywood superstar Amitabh Bachchan has purchased a 5704 square feet duplex apartment in Andheri, the western suburbs of Mumbai, for ₹31 crore, HT has learnt. The Maharashtra Chambers of Housing Industry (MCHI-CREDAI) said Bachchan saved more than ₹90 lakh from the deal. “Any sale boosts the whole cycle of real estate like the payment to banks, contractors and also fetches government revenue in the form of stamp duty and registration amount. Hence, the government needs to bring back the stamp duty cut,” said Deepak Goradia, President, MCHI-CREDAI.Bachchan has brought the property from Crystal Pride Developers in Atlantis Building at Andheri (W). The property is reported to be on the 27 and 28 floors of the under-construction 34-storeyed building. It also includes six mechanised parking slots.Bachchan purchased the apartment on December 31, 2020, and registered the same on April 12, 2021.The actor paid ₹62 lakh as stamp duty by taking advantage of a stamp duty scheme of the Maharashtra government under which buyers have to pay just 2% of the stamp duty instead of the normal 5%. The scheme was launched to improve revenue which has fallen significantly amid the Covid-19 pandemic.According to Zapkey.com, which accessed the registration documents, “the pandemic has given a boost to the sale of luxury apartments and many celebrities, businessmen, professional CXO’s have bought houses to take advantage of the pandemic-led price correction and stamp duty correction,” said Sandeep Reddy, co-founder, Zapkey.com.Atlantis Building in Andheri also has two other Bollywood buyers, Sunny Leone and Anand L Rai, the director of Bollywood blockbuster ‘Tanu weds Manu’. While Leone paid ₹16 crore for her 4365 square feet apartment, Rai had to shell out ₹25.30 crore for his 5917 square feet apartment.A response from Bachchan on the matter is awaited.The real estate sector has been facing a slowdown for several years and the pandemic has only made matters worse.The government in August last year announced its decision to reduce stamp duty levied on sales of apartments to 2% from September 1 till December 31, 2020, and then hike it to 3% from January 1 till March 31, 2021. The move played a significant role in boosting sales of both primary and secondary market. The state however refused to extend it despite several requests.Gulam Zia, executive director, Knight Frank, a real estate consultancy firm, said, “buyers took advantage of twin factors of price cuts and schemes offered by the builders. Builders are ready to negotiate and cut prices as they want to sell their properties. The stamp duty cut was a huge savings and many took advantage of this,” said Zia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/amitabh-bachchan-buys-apartment-worth-rs-31-cr-pays-rs-62-lakh-as-stamp-duty-101622200213638.html
28-05-2021||Mumbai||NCB arrests Sushant Singh Rajput’s flatmate in Hyderabad||Late actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s flatmate Siddharth Pithani, who was arrested from Hyderabad earlier this week, has been remanded to custody till June 1 for further investigation in the purported drug abuse link to the death of the late actor.The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) arrested Pithani on May 25 on multiple charges, like consumption of drugs, financing illicit traffic and harbouring offenders and punishment for abetment and criminal conspiracy of Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act (NDPS Act).Pithani was the one who reportedly found the actor dead in his bedroom on June 14, 2020. The NCB issued him a notice under section 67 of the NDPS Act, asking him to join the investigation but he did not honour the notice, said zonal director Sameer Wankhede of the NCB, Mumbai.Also Read | In joint raid, HP, Punjab Police seize opioids worth ₹30 lakhAn NCB team from Mumbai went to Hyderabad where they arrested Pithani with the help of the local bureau team. He was produced in a Hyderabad court and was brought to Mumbai on Thursday on transit remand. Pithani was produced in the court in Mumbai on Friday and remanded in custody till June 1 for further investigation.Earlier this month, on May 7, the NCB arrested Hemant Shah alias Maharaj from Miramar, Panjim, in Goa for his alleged role in the actor’s death case. Maharaj’s name had cropped up during an operation in a local seizure case. Shah had allegedly supplied drugs to two local suppliers, Anuj Keshwani and Regal Mahakaal, who were arrested in September and December, last year, respectively, in the drug probe related to the actor’s death. Keshwani and Mahakaal had revealed Shah’s involvement in the supply of drugs.NCB filed a charge sheet in first week of March and named 33 accused, including the late actor’s girlfriend Rhea Chakraborty. This charge sheet contained statements of 200 witnesses.The agency also recorded statements of Bollywood actors Deepika Padukone, Rakul Preet Singh, and Sara Ali Khan during their probe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ncb-arrests-sushant-singh-rajput-s-flatmate-in-hyderabad-101622199732595.html
28-05-2021||Other||Cyclone Yaas: PM Modi announces ₹500 cr package for Odisha||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday announced financial assistance worth ₹500 crore to Odisha in the aftermath of Cyclone Yaas. He said the Centre will deploy an inter-ministerial team to visit Odisha and West Bengal to assess the extent of damage, based on which further assistance will be granted.Odisha did not demand any immediate package from the Centre for undertaking relief and restoration works in the aftermath of cyclonic storm Yaas. The state, however, demanded assistance for a disaster resilience power system and protection from coastal storm surge.Ahead of PM Narendra Modi’s aerial survey of cyclone Yaas-affected districts of Balasore, Bhadrak and Kendrapara in Odisha, chief minister Naveen Patnaik, in a meeting with the PM at Bhubaneswar airport, said Odisha does not seek any immediate financial assistance from the Central government as the country is at the peak of the pandemic.“We would like to manage it through our own resources to tide over the crisis. However, we sought assistance for long term measures to make Odisha disaster resilient as we are frequented by such climate hazards every year. Odisha demands a disaster-resilient power infrastructure and resilient coastal protection with storm surge resilient embankments,” Patnaik said.PM Modi, who landed at Biju Patnaik International Airport in Bhubaneswar at 10.50 am, was received by Governor Ganeshi Lal and CM Patnaik, among others. Later, he held a review meeting at the airport with the Governor, Patnaik, DGP Abhay, chief secretary Suresh Mohapatra, Special Relief Commissioner Pradeep Jena, Union petroleum and natural gas minister Dharmendra Pradhan and Union minister of state for fisheries and MSME, Pratap Sarangi. After the meeting, the PM proceeded on the aerial survey of the worst-hit Balasore and Bhadrak districts.In June last year, the state government, during a visit of the inter-ministerial central team for damage assessment of cyclone Amphan, asked for a ₹20,000-crore package from the Centre for the creation of a disaster-resilient infrastructure in the state instead of spending a huge amount each year towards restoration and rehabilitation following disasters brought about by cyclones, among others.The state government wanted the Centre’s assistance for laying of underground cable in urban areas, resilient power transmission and distribution infrastructure in rural areas, building remote control GIS grid, raising the height of saline embankments to at least 6.5 metres above sea level and converting 1.66 lakh kaccha houses to cyclone resilient pucca houses.When cyclone Fani struck Odisha coast, it caused huge damage to the power infrastructures that left over 1 lakh km of 11-KV and low tension lines damaged while 2.18 lakh electric poles were damaged. Electricity could not be restored in Puri district for over a month. Fani caused damage worth at least ₹1,160 crore to Odisha’s power sector.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/after-yaas-odisha-seeks-long-term-assistance-for-disaster-resilient-power-system-101622199372296.html
28-05-2021||Pune||Covid-19 impact: Survival pandemic infects working class||The pandemic and Covid-related restrictions have been hard on everyone. Many have lost their jobs, while others have to face challenges every day to make ends meet. The daily wage workers, small roadside vendors, workers at non-essential shops among others have been hit hard as the non-essential shops have been closed for more than one month. On Thursday, HT spoke to a few people about their struggle for survival.“We have to skip meals...give me a job”Laxman Dahibhate, a 48-year-old contract worker, who resides near Dandekar bridge used to work at a clothing shop, but is jobless for the last two months. His daily routine includes a visit to the ‘Kamgar adda chowk’ or labour pick-up point near Dandekar bridge in a hope that he will get some work and he can earn bread and butter for his family.“Every day, I come here in search of some work, but at the end of the day, I am disappointed. Back at home, my wife and son wait for me to return home, and hope I get groceries and vegetables so that food is cooked. Sometimes we can have our two-time meals, but most of the days we have to skip our dinner as there is nothing to eat in the house,” said Laxman.He stays along with his family in the slum rehabilitation authority (SRA) scheme buildings near the Dandekar bridge.“Just like me, there are hundreds of other labourers and some of my friends who come daily in search of work and go away without anything. This pandemic has made our lives hell and I hope that the lockdown ends soon and I get some work so that I can earn for my family,” he said.“Business has suffered, every day we have to look for an alternate source of income”Sindhu Tukaram Belsare (65), involved in the business of making clay pots and Ganpati idols in Navi peth, said, “There is hardly any business left to do, we are a family of five people. My son, his wife and two children. He (her son) lost his job due to the lockdown and in search of a new job for the last three months”“Amid the restrictions, the business has suffered and we have to face challenges daily,” said Belsare, whose husband passed away a few years back.Recalling her last 1.5 years of experience, Belsare said, “Last year we bought a large number of Ganpati idols in big size, but suddenly government ordered to have small idols and to immerse them at home. So our idol stock is lying unused and we had to face a major loss. There is no income source left and day after day we have to look for alternate sources to earn money.”“I am not able to pay school fees of my children”Prakash Karangle (45), who sells and repairs footwear near Shanipar Chowk, is a father of three daughters and his wife is a patient with brain disease. “It has become extremely difficult for me and my family to survive because of the lockdown. There were days when we don’t have anything to cook and eat in the house.”“Our savings have been used up in this period of lockdown. I was not able to pay the school fees of my two daughters and the school administration has told me to pay it immediately or else her name will be removed from the school,” he said.“Last week, I borrowed ₹2,000 from a friend and then bought groceries, vegetables and other necessary things for my family. Today (on Thursday) since morning I earned only ₹30. How should we survive?” he said.“I am struggling to pay house rent, bills”Aslam Shaikh (41), who originally hails from Uttar Pradesh, works at a saloon in Shukrwar peth for the last ten years. “Our shop is closed since the lockdown started but our regular customers call us for service. If possible we go to their home and provide service. We are waiting for the lockdown the end and the business to resume.”“As I was not able to pay the fees of my son, we decided to remove his name from the school. Also, we shifted from our earlier home which rent was high and now into a one-room kitchen. We have not paid the house rent for two months, even the shop rent and electricity bill payment is pending,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/covid19-impact-survival-pandemic-infects-working-class-101622199322585.html
28-05-2021||Other||Global Village Idiot: Why data matters... and why it does not... even when it should||I love data. And how can one not? There’s so much of it around and more being generated every second. With so much information available and more on its way, one would think decision making and action-taking would be so easy, so precise, and so always-right for everyone everywhere. That’s not how the world is working at the moment. Data is defined as factual information that can be used as a basis for reasoning, discussion, or calculation. Even when we have tonnes of data and analysis, and even when it is all very compelling, it does not seem to spur governments, societies, and people to act on the basis of it. Take Covid-19 data for instance. When I look at statistics available, I am thinking stay indoors for another two-three months, maybe the whole of 2021, and definitely not sending my children to school. Many of my friends are looking at the statistics and saying, “Just another week or two and we will finally be able to get out of the house!” Governments seem to be looking at stats and weighing when they want to ease restrictions. The USA, I believe, has looked at all the stats and already eased restrictions, to the extent that people don’t have to wear masks. The UK had a concert I believe. From where I am sitting, third, fourth, fifth waves are inevitable, because we are not learning how we are perpetuating the pandemic.Why the different interpretations? Because we are looking at different parts of the data. Some are looking at number of cases, or positivity or new cases or related rates, et al. I am looking only at number of deaths. Why? Because I have written more obituaries this last year than I have done in my entire 30-year career. That’s called “proximity” in design terms, a concept that was explained to me 17 years ago by a former colleague and design wizard, Reena Roy. You see, sometimes we act differently or don’t act on data, because the data has no immediate relevance to our daily actions. The classic example that comes to mind is what we see on TV news. I can’t remember the last time I saw something on TV news that was relevant to my daily life here in Pune. You know which media has proximity to me and my needs? The local newspaper and the local edition of this national newspaper. In English, and in Marathi. They have people who are from the location and have lived here half their lives, if not all of it.Then there is familiarity. The more we see information and terminology, the more comfortable we get with it and start believing we understand what it means. Familiarity brings comfort, which in turn facilitates a contempt for urgency. Eventually, it influences only our words and communication without us ever having analysed or understood what the information was conveying, or how it affects the world, because we conclude that it is important to others, but not us.The example I think of in this context is jobs data. Jobs data and emerging trends make sense only when one doesn’t have a job, or has been laid off, or is in danger of being laid off. Another key reason why data may not lead to action is the source. The first thing I do when I see a graph or data chart, is to look at who’s produced the report. Then I know who they represent, can guess what the purpose of the information is and make an educated guess on whether I need to look deeper or beyond the data. Data does not really change our underlying behaviour which comes from deep conditioning. We use information to make conversation, analyse, and socialise. But our default decisions and therefore, behaviour, does not change. Data is simply fodder to strengthen our convictions.When we do act upon data? What kind of data do we act upon? At the moment, I am in Dhayari, Sinhagad road. Which means I understand what water woes mean. One moment you have water, the next moment you don’t… for three days. When you have water, you may not have electricity. You know who has the correct level of proximity and data relevance in such situations? The society secretary, gram panchayat, and water supplier.People in Dhayari, especially the under-privileged and the old are struggling for vaccines. And the struggle is a little different in areas like this that are on the outskirts: you have to try for slots online half the day and stand in long lines with no social distancing in the scorching heat, just to be told there is no vaccine and to come back another day. Who has the right level proximity? Your family members and friends who take turns to try for online slots; the Mayor’s list of vaccination centres for the next day; the village sarpanch and grassroots-level politician who genuinely make an attempt to get actionable information; but above all, our maid who called at 6.30 am when she learned that her local village school was a centre - she couldn’t get her first dose, but she stood in the line so that our 70+ elders could get a token for their second dose.That’s data proximity, relevance, and support at its very best.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/global-village-idiot-why-data-matters-and-why-it-does-not-even-when-it-should-101622198832606.html
28-05-2021||Chandigarh||In joint raid, HP, Punjab Police seize opioids worth ₹30 lakh||A joint team of Punjab Police and their Himachal Pradesh counterparts raided a pharmaceutical factory at Paonta Sahib in Sirmaur district and recovered opioids worth ₹30 lakh that were being illegally produced. Factory owner Manish Mohan was arrested. Also read: India to vaccinate all against Covid-19 by December 2021, says JavadekarOpioids are a class of drugs naturally found in the opium poppy plant that work in the brain to produce a variety of effects, including pain relief. Synthetic derivatives include heroin, fentanyl, hydromorphone, methadone and buprenorphine. An official release said on Friday that the police team recovered more than 30 lakh intoxicant tablets, including 7.72 lakh Tramadol tablets, 12.45 lakh Tramadol capsules and nearly 10 lakh Alprax (Alprazolam) tablets. “We have suspended the licence of the firm,” said Sandeep Kaushal, the assistant drug controller at Paonta Sahib. Four arrests led cops to factory On May 18, a Punjab Police team led by Mattewal station house officer Lovepreet Singh arrested four accused, Samir Kumar, Suraj Kumar, Gurmukh Singh and Manu Chohan, after a case was registered against them under Sections 22, 29, 61 and 85 of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act. The police recovered 50,000 Tramadol tablets from them besides impounding a Maruti Alto K10 car and a motorcycle. Their interrogation led the police to the factory, Unique Pharma, at Paonta Sahib. During preliminary investigation, the police found that on record the factory had despatched the consignment to Delhi. The police are investigating how supplies were illegally being made to drug peddlers at Mattewal in Amritsar district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/in-joint-raid-hp-punjab-police-seize-opioids-worth-rs-30-lakh-101622198772377.html
28-05-2021||Bhopal||In MP, families that lose members to Covid-19 face challenges in getting death certificate||Sarla Vyas, a resident of Damoh in Madhya Pradesh, died of Covid-19 at a private hospital on April 14. When his son Rajesh Vyas approached the hospital for the death certificate, the hospital administration refused to have any entry of his mother’s death due to Covid-19. Even after one and half month, the hospital administration didn’t release her death certificate with the exact cause of death, HT has learnt. Vyas is not the only one with such an experience, in many districts, people are facing hardships in getting death certificates of their loved ones who succumbed to Covid-19. Many hospital administrations refuse to have any record of the deaths. Aman Jadhav, who hails from Bhopal, has been running pillar to post to get the death certificate of his mother Shashi Jadhav, 40, who died of Covid-19 at JP Hospital in Bhopal on April 18. “I visit the hospital daily but the hospital administration didn’t have any record of my mother’s death. Now, how will I get a death certificate from a municipal corporation?” said Jadhav. Not only this, it is learnt that some hospitals are releasing misleading death certificates by mentioning the cause of death as some illness, cardiac arrest or some other, family members allege. “My 46-year-old brother died of Covid-19 on April 17. The hospital issued a death certificate without mentioning the cause of death. My brother has four kids and we are not financially stable to take care of them. The state government announced compensation against the death of Covid-19 patients but how will we prove that my brother died of Covid-19?” said Manish Pardesia, who hails from Khandwa. A resident of Bhopal, Shawar Jama said, “I lost my father due to Covid-19 but the hospital handed over the death certificate stating that he died of cardiac arrest. I requested them to correct it but the hospital administration said they can’t change their record.” Experts say these are some of the examples proving that Covid-19 deaths data is being fudged. Jan Swasthya Abhiyan member SR Azaad said, “People are facing trauma and trouble due to missing or misleading records of the hospitals. Now, hospitals are also taking advantage of the state government’s lack of transparency in maintaining the records. As the state government was mainly dependent upon private hospitals for the treatment of Covid-19 patients, they can’t take action against them.” Amulya Nidhi, another health activist, who is constantly fighting for health rights, said, “According to the MP health department, as many as 7,758 people died of Covid-19 since April last year but the records of crematorium and graveyards registered 10 times more death in the state.”“Most of the Covid-19 patients, including the VIPs, ministers and officers, are going to private hospitals for their treatment as the state government relies more on private health facilities than the public ones. Now, private hospitals and the state government are partners in the crime of fudging data,” Nidhi said. Medical colleges’ association president JN Chauksey said, “A panel of doctor decides the cause of death in every hospital. But this is a bitter fact that 50% of Covid-19 patients died of cardiac arrest due to fear of the disease. Death due to fear and cardiac arrest can’t be written as death due to complications of Covid 19.” Department of medical education minister Vishwas Sarang said, “We have not received any such complaints of missing records and wrong entry of cause of death. If we receive any complaint, we will act accordingly.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/in-mp-families-that-lose-members-to-covid-19-face-challenges-in-getting-death-certificate-101622196912001.html
28-05-2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand receives 15,000 vials of Amphotericin-B to treat Black Fungus||Uttarakhand has received 15,000 vials of Amphotericin-B, the drug used for treating patients with black fungus, from a Rudrapur-based pharmacy company, late on Thursday.The drug department of the state secured the order for Amphotericin-B injections last night.The State Drug Controller, Tajbar Singh Jaggi said, "These injections came on orders of Doon Medical College Hospital, so they will first go to them and after that, they will be distributed".The state has also placed another order of 1,200 injections with other pharmaceutical companies.Jaggi added, "In addition to this, 1,200 injection orders have been given to other pharmaceutical companies, and will be available in a couple of days".Due to a spurt in the black fungus disease, the state had placed orders for anti-fungal injections.Uttarakhand Government had announced the production of Amphotericin-B injections on May 24.The mortality rate of Covid-related deaths in Uttarakhand stands at 1.89 per cent and the state ranks second in Covid-related deaths after Punjab, the state health department informed on Thursday.It said that despite the decrease in the new Covid-19 cases and the increase in the rate of recovery, the death rate in Uttarakhand is a matter of concern."Uttarakhand ranks second after Punjab in mortality. The death rate of coronavirus patients in the state stands at 1.89 per cent, while the death rate in Punjab stands at 2.5 per cent," the health ministry said.According to official data, there are 39,237 active cases of Covid-19 in the state. The state will be in pandemic induced lockdown till June 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/uttarakhand-receives-15-000-vials-of-amphotericin-b-to-treat-black-fungus-101622195324844.html
28-05-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana: Anil Vij directs officials to increase Mucormycosis-dedicated beds in all govt hospitals||Haryana Health Minister Anil Vij on Thursday directed officials to increase the number of beds in all of the state's government medical colleges for the treatment of patients with Black Fungus.The direction is to augment the number of beds from 20 to 75 in each of them.At present, twenty beds have been arraged for the treatment of the infection in every medical college of the state.On May 18, the Haryana government had declared the infection as an epidemic in the state forming regulations called, "The Haryana Epidemic Diseases (Mucormycosis) Regulations, 2021".As per the Union Health Ministry, Mucormycosis or black fungus is a complication caused by a fungal infection.People catch mucormycosis by coming in contact with the fungal spores in the environment. It can also develop on the skin after the fungus enters the skin through a cut, scrape, burn, or other type of skin trauma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-anil-vij-directs-officials-to-increase-mucormycosis-dedicated-beds-in-all-govt-hospitals-101622195115786.html
28-05-2021||Chandigarh||₹1.33-crore robbery: Gangsters Jaipal, Dhilwan booked for threatening witness||Two A-category gangsters of Punjab, including most wanted Jaipal Bhullar, were booked on Friday for threatening a key witness in the ₹1.33-crore robbery from an Axis Bank cash van outside Chitkara University campus in Banur, 40km from Patiala, in 2017. On May 2, 2017, six armed men looted ₹1.33 crore from the cash van outside the private university on the Patiala-Chandigarh highway. The case was handed over to Punjab Police’s organised crime control unit (OCCU).Also read: Watch | Robbed in a minute, a cash van carrying ₹1.33 crore near Banur; driver suffers gunshotThe case was registered against the gangsters on the complaint of key witness Shamsher Singh, who works as a security guard at Chitkara University. Patiala senior superintendent of police Sandeep Kumar Garg said Shamsher has accused Jaipal and other gangsters of threatening him with dire consequences for deposing against them in court. “The gangsters threatened him at his house besides his family members and friends. Though Jaipal is absconding, the other accused are lodged in different jails of Punjab,” the SSP said. Steps taken to protect key witness The police have started investigation and steps have been taken to ensure the safety of the key witness and his relatives. The case was registered under Sections 195-A (Threatening any person to give false evidence) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code. Besides Jaipal Bhullar, the accused have been identified as A-category gangster Tirath Singh Dhilwan, Sukhwant Narula, Manish Thakur, Sandeep Kumar, Sikander Singh, Darshan Singh, Lucky Rajput, Gagandeep Singh and Jaspreet Singh. In 2018, police brought hardcore gangster Dhilwan, 28, to Patiala on production warrant for interrogation during which he confessed to his role in the robbery along with Bhullar. Jaipal behind recent killing of two ASIs in Ludhiana On May 15, 2021, Jaipal Bhullar gunned down two assistant sub-inspectors (ASIs) of the crime investigation agency (CIA) in Jagraon town of Ludhiana district. Jaipal was an accomplice of gangsters Vicky Gounder and Prema Lahoria, who were killed in a police encounter in 2018. He is also wanted for the murder of gangster Sukha Kahlwan in 2015, the Nabha jailbreak case of 2016 and the murder of gangster Jaswinder Singh Rocky in the same year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/rs-1-33-crore-robbery-gangsters-jaipal-dhilwan-booked-for-threatening-witness-101622195412055.html
28-05-2021||Noida||Farmers protest at Jewar toll plaza on Yamuna Expressway||A group of farmers protesting against the central farm laws on Friday staged a demonstration at the Jewar toll plaza here, partially disrupting traffic movement on the Yamuna Expressway, according to officials.The farmers belonging to the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) had reached Jewar in Gautam Buddh Nagar on Thursday with an objective to stage the demonstration as part of their plan to carry out similar protests at some other toll plazas in western Uttar Pradesh.According to police officials, some of the protestors, including a local leader of the group, were taken to the Jewar police station around midnight.“They were brought to the station for a dialogue. We had requested them to call off the protest and vacate the toll plaza but they were reluctant to recede,” SHO, Jewar police station, Umesh Singh, told PTI.The protestors went back from the police station after some time and carried on with their demonstration that continued on Friday morning also with them occupying two lanes of the Yamuna Expressway, according to officials.“The Jewar toll plaza is open for vehicular movement. Only two lanes are blocked because of the farmers' protest,” a Traffic Police official said.After observing 'Black Day' on May 26, the BKU, which has been demanding the repeal of the three new central farm laws since November 2020, has intensified its protest in parts of Uttar Pradesh since Thursday.“Members of the farmers union are staging protest at five toll plazas in western Uttar Pradesh. These toll plazas are located in Gautam Buddh Nagar, Meerut, Amroha, Moradabad and Muzaffarnagar,” BKU media in-charge Dharmendra Malik said.Supporters of the BKU, led by Rakesh Tikait, have been camping at Ghazipur on the Delhi-UP border since November 2020 with a demand that the Centre repeal the three contentious farm laws brought in last year. The farmers claim that these laws would hurt their livelihood and leave them at the mercy of corporations.The government, which has held multiple rounds of official dialogue with the protestors, has maintained that the laws are pro-farmer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/farmers-protest-at-jewar-toll-plaza-on-yamuna-expressway-101622195066523.html
28-05-2021||Other||Bihar’s vegetable vendor is on a mission to arrest pandemic in his own way||Akhbar Ali, a vegetable hawker in Bihar’s West Champaran district, has taken to the distribution of masks and sanitiser among the poor and underprivileged in his bid to arrest the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic. A resident of Dafalitoli area of Bagaha in West Champaran, Ali is on move for weeks now and has already distributed masks and sanitiser worth over ₹10,000. Ali was moved by an incident where he saw a poor family picking up masks littered at a place in Bagaha Bazaar.“The incident was the one which prompted me to stand for such people. The early it (pandemic) gets over, the better it is for all of us. One needs to stand for each other in this hour irrespective of one’s earning, “ he said.“Yaha gaarib aur majbooron ko free mask diya jata. (free masks are available for poor people here),“ read one sticker put up by Ali.Other read, “Samajik duri banaye rakhe. Mask ka upyog kare. (maintain social distancing and use masks).”Ali, whose primary mode of livelihood is by selling vegetables on carts in Bagaha every day, has his handcart laden with masks and sanitiser with stickers pasted all around. He plies it through the weary roads and by-lanes of Bagaha after 10 am. “He mainly gives the mask and sanitisers generously to the have nots. Those shelving the precautionary measures by not using masks are persuaded by him to follow the preventive protocol,” said Ashok Gupta, a Bagaha-based businessman.“He makes no compromise with his business. Till 10 am, he is a sabjiwala who ferries vegetables in the town,” said Gupta. Ali, however, is not dependent on any contribution to carry forward his social work. He purchases the masks from his savings and earnings that he makes by selling vegetables.“A couple of days back only he purchased masks and sanitiser in bulk from my shop to distribute them among the needy,” said Naveen Kumar, a Bagaha-based businessman.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bihars-vegetable-vendor-is-on-a-mission-to-arrest-pandemic-in-his-own-way-101622194992165.html
28-05-2021||Delhi||Man beats woman to death in east Delhi hotel for blocking his phone number||A man was arrested for beating a 38-year-old woman to death inside a hotel room in East Delhi’s New Ashok Nagar on Wednesday night, the police said on Friday.The woman and the 35-year-old alleged killer were both married to different people and were in a relationship, said Deepak Yadav, deputy commissioner of police (east).The police identified the victim as Rani, a woman who lived in East Delhi’s Trilokpuri and worked as a domestic help. The alleged killer, Gangaram Das, lived in the same neighbourhood and drove an e-rickshaw to earn his living. “The two of them were in an extramarital relationship,” Yadav said.Also Read | Man arrested for killing wife, throwing 3 kids in canalDas would allegedly keep borrowing money from Rani, but wasn’t willing to marry her. Rani wanted to end the relationship, but Das wouldn’t agree to that either.A few weeks ago, Rani stopped receiving his phone calls and then blocked his phone number. On Wednesday, Das contacted Rani and asked her to meet him at a hotel nearby. “They visited the hotel around 1pm. In the hotel room, they ended up fighting over the issue of Rani blocking Das’ number. It ended in Das using his bare fists to beat Rani to death,” the DCP said.The police received a call from the hotel around 10pm about the couple quarrelling. By the time they reached the spot, Rani was dead.The officer said that Das was held from the hotel and booked for murder. Since the hotel was operating in violation of the lockdown guidelines, its owner was booked too, the officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/man-beats-woman-to-death-in-east-delhi-hotel-for-blocking-his-phone-number-101622194631891.html
28-05-2021||Delhi||Amaltas, a sight to behold in Delhi: #MeAndMyAmaltas||Looking out of the window, during this lockdown in Delhi, has turned therapeutic due to amaltas that has cast a dreamy spell on Delhi’s landscape. One could call this tree Cassia or Golden bells or Indian Laburnum, but its bright yellow sheen and captivating beauty will enrapture you so much that it would be difficult to debate on its name. The amaltas trees lining the Delhi’s roads have captured the fancy of many denizens who have been posting their photographs on social media, since these are visible from the balconies, windows and main doors of many a households, and don’t need any Covid protocol to be followed to get clicked! It’s sunny bloom can lift anyone’s mood and provide a much need positive vibe, especially in the present times of the pandemic. And that’s what some of the popular residents of the city advocate about them.Grateful to the bounteous Nature Author Manju Kapur looks at an amaltas in her backyard, and expresses how these trees are everything that an individual must be grateful for. The writer in her takes over as she goes on to explain how significant a part this tree has plays in her garden. “It has long golden strings, lending the air a yellow light, covering the ground with petals with every gust of wind... To see an amaltas tree, to marvel at its beauty is to feel grateful that Nature keeps on giving!”A golden shower that welcomes April-May Kathak exponent Shovana Narayan recalls the her fond memories of the amaltas in her vicinity. “These trees are more than 32 years old. And it’s wonderful to see the brilliant golden shower just blooming all over. It is just so beautiful! The sidewalks are yellowed with these beautiful flowers as if the tress are shielding and welcoming you with flowers. I remember when my father was posted here in the early 60s, we had a lot of amaltas trees. That time, summer meant blooming amaltas, especially in the months of April and May. What an artistic picture it made! It always reminds me of a poem ‘Os ki boond chalak hi gayi akhir kar, ishq saans lene laga umr ke baad. Amaltas tale’. There are so many poems that talk about the beauty of amaltas, and the amaltas of Delhi are the ones that I have grown up with.” From one generation to anotherFor photographer Aditya Arya, the subtle yellow of the laburnum signifies warmth, sunshine, happiness, rejuvenation and creativity. But the bond that he shares with the amaltas near his house is as beautiful as the flowers of this tree. “This tree sapling was given to my daughter, by my mother, almost 15 years back! Today, it’s a big tree... invigorating and stimulating,” he reminisces, adding, “The story of the subtle and delicate formation of the amaltas flowers doesn’t end on the tree, but gets enhanced when it forms a carpet on the roadside to usher in summer.” Flowers that fall and adorn the sky’s reflectionArtist Sanjay Bhattacharyya gets filled with the thoughts of many amaltas trees that he crossed on his path from his residence to his studio. “Sometimes I look up to appreciate the beauty of those, and sometimes look down at the road that becomes a bright yellow canvas when the flowers fall from the tree.This year, I’ve experienced a very unusual beauty of those flowers. And after the recent sudden rainfall due to that cyclone Tauktae, there was stagnant water on the road and the reflection of sky was visible in it, and there amaltas decorating this view,” describes Bhattacharyya. Amaltas spelt summer vacations The bloom reminds singer Sajeeta Bhattacharya of her summer vacations. She says, “Carpets of yellow along the wide tree-lined streets of Delhi are quintessential to the onset of summer in the Capital. As a kid, it spelt summer vacations for me. And until today, I marvel at these chandeliers that adorn the streets!” Of romantic walks under yellow canopies Reminiscing a memory from back in the days when he was a student at the National School of Drama, actor Rajesh Tailang says, “Our hostel was in the central part of Delhi; and I feel that the most beautiful amaltas blooming happens on the roads of Lutyens’ Delhi. In those times, the traffic on the roads was much less and walking on the side path beneath those yellow canopies was a very romantic experience. Sometimes, while walking, I used to recite poems and practice dialogues.”Author tweets @Nainaarora8Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/amaltas-a-sight-to-behold-in-delhi-meandmyamaltas-101622192870920.html
28-05-2021||Chandigarh||Two deaths due to black fungus at IGMC, Shimla||Himachal Pradesh has reported its first fatalities due to black fungus after two patients succumbed to the infection at Indira Gandhi Medical College (IGMC), Shimla. IGMC senior medical superintendent Dr Janak Raj said on Friday that a 49-year-old diabetic man from Kasauli, who was admitted to the hospital on May 22, died of mucormycosis late on Thursday. Also read: Amid Covid-19 vaccine crunch, India Inc steps in to inoculate employeesThe second patient, a 38-year-old man from Nadaun in Hamirpur district, was brought to IGMC on Thursday. He too was diabetic and had swelling in the sinus area. “The fungus had affected their brain that ultimately resulted in their death,” Dr Janak Raj said. Himachal Pradesh had recorded its first case of mucormycosis on May 22 when a 52-year-old woman from Hamirpur was found infected. At present, she is undergoing treatment at IGMC. The state has recorded seven cases of mucormycosis so far. Three patients are undergoing treatment at IGMC and two at Dr Rajendra Prasad Government Medical College, Tanda. Mucormycosis or called black fungus is caused by a mould found in soil and in decaying organic matter such as rotting leaves. People get mucormycosis, of which there are several types, by breathing in the fungal spores. Intense headache, pain in the sinus area and the right eye, blurred vision and swollen cheeks are some symptoms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/two-deaths-due-to-black-fungus-at-igmc-shimla-101622192531745.html
28-05-2021||Mumbai||Elgaar Parishad case: HC allows Stan Swamy to be shifted to a pvt hospital||The Bombay high court on Friday permitted Elgaar Parishad accused, Stan Swamy, to be shifted from Taloja jail to Holy Family hospital, a private hospital in Mumbai, for 15 days.The permission was granted after senior counsel Mihir Desai sought an urgent hearing of Swamy’s interim bail application.Desai said as per the court’s permission on May 21 when Swamy refused to be shifted to a government hospital, he had spoken to the 84-year-old and had convinced him to shift to Holy Family hospital due to his deteriorating health.Swamy, who was arrested in October 2020 in connection with the Elgaar Parishad case and was kept at Taloja jail since, along with the other accused in the case, addressed the court through video conferencing and said that he was able to walk, eat and bathe on his own when he was brought to the jail however his health had deteriorated over the past eight months.Also Read | Elgaar Parishad case: HC extends Hany Babu stay in private hospital till June 1In a note submitted by Desai to the HC last week, Swamy had developed cough and fever and was not even tested for Covid though 26 other inmates and staff had tested positive. The note had also claimed that the jail hospital did not have proper medical facilities to treat and monitor Swamy who was in an advanced stage of Parkinson’s disease and could not hear or stand on his own.After Desai assured the court that the expense would be borne by Swamy, the court said, “It is not in dispute that the appellant’s age is 84 years and according to the findings by a team of doctors from Sir JJ Hospital, he needs treatment. We request that the administration of Holy Family hospital provide one attendant keeping in view age of appellant.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/elgaar-parishad-case-hc-allows-stan-swamy-to-be-shifted-to-private-hospital-101622191271689.html
28-05-2021||Delhi||Lockdown norms to be relaxed partially in Delhi from Monday||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday announced that the construction sector in the city and factories can resume operations from Monday.This announcement marks the beginning of the scaling down process of the ongoing lockdown imposed on April 19 to curb an unprecedented surge in Covid-19 cases. It has been extended at least five times so far.“In one month, we have controlled this wave to a large extent. In the last 24 hours, around 1,100 new cases were recorded and the positivity rate was around 1.5%. Currently, there is no shortage of hospital beds, ICU beds and oxygen. So, we have to start the un-lockdown process. We should ensure that we don’t land in a position in which people survive Covid-19 but die of poverty,” said Kejriwal in a video press briefing streamed live on Friday.At its peak, Delhi recorded 28,395 cases on April 20 and a positivity rate of more than 36% on April 22. A full lockdown was imposed in Delhi on April 19.Also Read | 1,072 more Covid-19 cases, caseload drops to 54-day lowKejriwal further said, “The ongoing lockdown will apply till 5am Monday. And then the un-lockdown process will start. The decision was taken today in the meeting of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA).”DDMA is chaired by lieutenant governor Anil Baijal; Kejriwal is its vice-chairperson .“In the un-lockdown process, our priority will be the weakest economic sections. So, we will start with labourers, especially migrant labourers. Most of them are engaged either in the construction sector or in factories. So, we will open these two sectors from this Monday. But we have to remember that the fight against Covid-19 is still not over. We have to make sure that things do not go bad again. So, the relaxations have to happen in a phased way,” said Kejriwal.Under the ongoing lockdown regulations, there is a complete ban on all economic activities, with exceptions for people, institutes and enterprises engaged in delivery of essential goods and services. Under the currently applicable norms, factories across the city, except those engaged in the manufacture of face masks, hand sanitisers, and other Covid-19 protection-related goods, are prohibited from functioning. Similarly, there is a ban on construction activities too, with an exemption for those which have provision for accommodating labourers on site in adherence to social distancing and other hygiene standards necessary for protection against Covid-19.Kejriwal also said, “Now, week after week we will widen the phased relaxation process on the basis of public opinion and experts’ opinion. But if Covid-19 cases start increasing, we will have to stop all economic activities again. So, I urge people to adhere to all regulations and strictly follow Covid-19 appropriate behaviour. That is the only way to control Covid-19. Don’t step out unless it is necessary. We are not in favour of a lockdown. We are aware of its negative implications. So, we don’t want that to happen again.”Construction sector and factory workers’ unions in the city welcomed the move as a “relief” but said that Delhi is likely to face a labour shortage in the coming days because a large number of migrant labourers who left the city during the lockdown are unlikely to return anytime soon.“The un-lockdown initiative will bring big relief to lakhs of workers engaged in Delhi’s factories. But a large number of people has already left and they are not likely to come back any time soon. The disease has affected them and their families back in villages. Most of them have run out of money too. They are unlikely to return to Delhi without a guaranteed job,” said Rajesh Kumar, general secretary (Delhi) of Indian Federation of Trade Unions.Thaneshwar Adigaur, convener of Nirmal Majdoor Adhikar Abhiyan, a joint forum of 40 construction sector labour unions in Delhi, said: “Then there is fear of another potential wave of Covid-19. Also, children of migrant labourers no longer have to attend physical classes in the public schools any time soon. So, those who have left for villages are likely to be there for a few more months. However, for the construction workers who stayed back and those who plan to return, the announced relaxation will be a big relief.”Also Read | Over 800k migrants left Delhi after lockdown announced: GovtTwo separate reports published in HT last week said more than 800,000 migrant labourers left Delhi for their home states in buses from the three interstate bus terminals in the first four weeks of the lockdown and the government kept no record of those who left in trains during the same period. Also, a large number of them are affected by the virus which is spreading in villages across states. Many of them either cannot immediately leave family members who are recovering, or are out of money, and lack a security net in the absence of a job guarantee and fear another potential wave of Covid-19 in the coming days. So, a large number of them is unlikely to return any time soon even if the lockdown is lifted.Neeraj Sehgal, a factory owner and general secretary of the industrial area welfare body in Delhi’s Mayapuri, said: “Factory owners too are in bad shape and, hence, they are unlikely to expand their workforce beyond a point. In the next three months, production capacity is likely to remain under 50% because of the financial losses caused by the pandemic. It would be great if the government considers relaxations for the industry sector too in terms of rent relaxation, tax relief and waiver on at least fixed charges on power and water.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/lockdown-norms-to-be-relaxed-in-delhi-from-monday-101622190672134.html
28-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi’s Covid 24X7 helpline family: A call of compassion||When the intentions are good, even a small effort in the right direction goes a long way in bringing a significant change. That’s exactly what happened when more than 4,000 volunteers from across India came together this April, to start a helpline that has become a family of sorts. As part of Delhi’s Covid 24X7 Helpline Family, these volunteers have been helping people find and source oxygen cylinders and concentrators, arrange hospital beds, source medication and even provide food and other essential services to those facing the challenges posed by Covid, in the second wave. Leading the way to set-up this platform was a core group of volunteers namely Karan Sikka, Dr Shirin Khanna, Tarpan Sehgal, Naveen Bagri, Upasana Bora, Damanjeet Singh, Manish Bagga and Gaurav Dhaundiyal. Their set-up involved formation of a separate WhatsApp group, specifically for users, to post leads from any social media platform and even the internet. And from a single group, they have multiplied to a total of 16 groups comprising 13 helplines — one leads group, one verification group and one group for their core team. Karan Sikka, one of the core volunteers, says, “It started with one WhatsApp group, which later multiplied and grew. We started on April 19, just when cases began skyrocketing. We tried to organise everything, and personally verified all information. Sometimes the information we got would be old, or nobody would answer the number that we got. So a special team would call on these numbers, day and night, to verify them all. This way we were also able to help set-up Covid care centres in Delhi-NCR by procuring oxygen cylinders and concentrators.”Another Delhi-based volunteer, Tarpan Sehgal, an advocate by profession, has helped arrange more than 150 beds, about 500 oxygen cylinders, arrange more than 20 Remdisiver alongside helping people get vital drugs and medicines. He says, “You don’t need a cape to be a hero. We initiated the chain of connecting people with each other via social media specifically Instagram, WhatsApp and other social media platforms. Like our chain of volunteers, who are gathering information from various leads on different platforms, I’ve also been working day and night. I’ve lost a few close one during this time, but I want to help others as much as I can.” “We were able to provide help to thousands of people in need and by God’s grace many lives were saved,” says Upasana Bora, a social media influencer, who has been able to arrange leads using her social media presence. She adds, “By using my social media influence and reach, we have been able to spread the word just at the right time.”Helping the patients get access to professional advice on self medication is Dr Shirin Khanna. The Delhi-based medical practitioner came forward to be part of this initiative, to ensure that people are disseminated the right information, and says: “Sometimes people cannot reach out to doctors in time, and they ask their peers questions like ‘What should I do?’ ‘Saturation is falling, what should I do’. People were calling me saying they are out of breath. It was really haphazard. Twice I had to tell people about ventilator, whether they need it or not. It’s very important to know when one needs a ventilator or oxygen. And then I thought, why not help those who are putting out their queries in the groups!” Author tweets @Nainaarora8Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-covid-24x7-helpline-family-a-call-of-compassion-101622190015655.html
28-05-2021||Delhi||Union minister writes to Kejriwal over ‘disrespect’ to national flag||Union culture and tourism minister Prahlad Singh Patel has cited visuals of the backdrop of Arvind Kejriwal’s regular televised addresses and blamed the Delhi chief minister for “knowingly or unknowingly” disrespecting the national flag seen in them. In a letter sent on Thursday, Patel said the green stripe in the Tricolour displayed behind Kejriwal during his televised appearances was distorted and enlarged and the white central portion reduced. He added this amounts to a violation of the Flag Code of India and that he has written to the Centre and Delhi Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal requesting an immediate correction.Also Read | Plea filed against Twitter in Delhi high court over non-compliance of new rules“Whenever Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal addresses a televised briefing, my attention is often drawn to the national flag behind his chair... it is in violation of the Constitution. The national flag has been used for the purpose of decoration,” he said in the letter.Kejriwal has been holding press briefing regularly on the Covid crisis in Delhi, the vaccination progress, oxygen crisis and lockdown restrictions and has often attacked the Centre over its alleged mishandling of the pandemic.There was no immediate response from Kejriwal or his Aam Aadmi Party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/union-minister-writes-to-kejriwal-over-disrespect-to-national-flag-101622189951610.html
28-05-2021||Patna||‘Only 58.8% of women in Bihar use hygienic methods of protection during menstruation’: Survey||As per the National Family and Health Survey, only 58.8% of women in Bihar, in the age group of menstruation, use hygienic methods of protection during their menstrual cycle. The survey states that out of 58.8% of women, only 56% of rural women use hygienic methods while 74.7% of such women are in urban areas. This has been the situation of menstrual hygiene in the state despite women having a considerable percentage of reservations in panchayat and government jobs. Experts say menstruation is still taboo, especially in rural areas and small towns. There’s still little awareness about menstrual hygiene management among women and adolescent girls, they said. Considering the need for awareness about menstrual hygiene management and of the facilities and materials required to maintain hygiene during the Covid-19 pandemic, UNICEF, Bihar, has appealed to the people to post their pictures with a red dot on their palm, along with a slogan on menstrual hygiene management, on social media platforms like Instagram, Twitter and Facebook on Menstrual Hygiene Management (MHM) Day on May 28. “Menstrual hygiene day (MH Day) is a global advocacy platform that brings together the voices and actions of non-profits, government agencies and individuals to promote good menstrual hygiene management for all women and girls. It’s observed on May 28 as the average duration of a menstrual cycle is 28 days,” Nipurnh Gupta, media coordinator, UNICEF, Bihar, said. A dedicated day for menstrual hygiene came into effect in 2014 in a bid to create awareness among people to stop considering menstruation a taboo and discuss the challenges of its management, she added. “Challenges related to its management must be far more severe during the Covid pandemic. As per the World Health Organisation (WHO), 70% of workers in the health and social sector are women. They are the front-line health workers, like nurses, midwives and community health workers,” she said. “As there is a lack of awareness about menstrual hygiene management in our society, there’s every possibility that the facility managers at any centre may miss out on arranging these materials for women frontline workers. Also, those women employees who have been using PPE kits must be in double trouble. Putting on these kits while working at the Covid care centre and removing it when there’s the need to change menstrual hygiene materials must be a big challenge for female health care workers,” she added. Besides, female patients at Covid-19 quarantine centres may not have access to menstrual hygiene management materials. In many cases, piped water supply or hand wash materials may not be available at many places, she added. “In rural areas, girls used to get sanitary pads at their schools. But the schools have remained closed for the last several months. Even if it will open, the materials may not be available in the stock,” she said. These are some basic issues regarding menstrual hygiene management and women and adolescents must be having a tough time these days, she stated. Prabhakar Sinha, the WASH (water, sanitation and hygiene) specialist, said the impacts of poor knowledge about menstruation hygiene management must be severe during the Covid pandemic and lockdown. “Though the government has been doing a lot to raise awareness among females, there’s the need to involve common people in this campaign as well. For better results, it should be turned into a social movement,” he said. “This is why many sections of people, including youth, teachers and social activists, have been involved in the virtual sessions. Social media platforms too have been used as a tool to disseminate information about menstrual hygiene management,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/only-58-8-of-women-in-bihar-use-hygienic-methods-of-protection-during-menstruation-survey-101622189831389.html
28-05-2021||Other||‘Lower mortality...’: Goa govt defends Ivermectin’s efficacy against Covid-19||In defence of its decision to administer Ivermectin, an anti-parasitic medicine for the use as prophylaxis, to Covid-19 patients, the Goa government, in a statement, has claimed that the mortality rate is much lower in patients who take the medicine than those who don’t. In a statement filed before the Bombay High Court at Goa, which had asked the Goa government to explain its stand on Covid-19, the government referred to reports which said that the advice of the World Health Organization to not experiment with Ivermectin, as its efficacy is yet to be proved, is “flawed”. “Various studies conducted in different countries have shown that the medicine has a positive effect on prevention and treatment/cure of patients. I say that the studies and reports are available on the website ivmmeta.com... There are some reports which have found that the analysis by WHO on this medicine is flawed and that the mortality rate is actually much lower if the said medicine is used for early treatment as well as prophylaxis,” Goa joint secretary, health, Vikas Gaunekar said in a statement before the Court. Gaunekar said that the Goa government decided to hand out Ivermectin tablets as prophylaxis on the advice of its expert committee. “This aspect was discussed by the State Expert Committee for Covid in the meeting held on May 13 under the chairmanship of the health minister [and] also comprising different expert doctors from government and private institutions. I say that after deliberations, it was recommended to use the said medicine once daily for five days to the population over 18 years. However, pregnant/lactating women, as well as those persons with allergy and those having liver/kidney are advised to consult a doctor before taking the medicine,” he added. The Goa government has decided to administer Ivermectin to all those above the age of 18 with the advice that it should be taken every day for five days as a preventive measure and to prevent severe symptoms in case one contracts the disease. The decision, however, has been met with bemusement. “Patients will be treated with Ivermectin 12mg for a period of 5 days. Expert panels from the UK, Italy, Spain and Japan, found a large, statistically significant reduction in mortality, time to recovery and viral clearance in Covid-19 patients treated with Ivermectin,” Goa health minister Vishwajit Rane said when announcing his decision earlier this month.The World Health Organization (WHO), however, has advised against the use of Ivermectin among the general population.“Safety and efficacy are important when using any drug for a new indication. @WHO recommends against the use of Ivermectin for #COVID19 except within clinical trials,” chief scientist, WHO, Soumya Swaminathan said in a tweet on Tuesday.Merck, a company that manufacturers Ivermectin have also advised against its use in Covid-19 situations.“Company scientists continue to carefully examine the findings of all available and emerging studies of Ivermectin for the treatment of Covid-19 for evidence of efficacy and safety. It is important to note that, to-date, our analysis has identified: No scientific basis for a potential therapeutic effect against Covid-19 from pre-clinical studies; No meaningful evidence for clinical activity or clinical efficacy in patients with Covid-19 disease, and; A concerning lack of safety data in the majority of studies,” the company said in a statement earlier this year.Goa’s opposition political parties have now questioned the government calling for “evidence” that the drug works.“The World Health Organisation has advised that Ivermectin only be used to treat Covid-19 within clinical trials. This information is available on the official website of WHO. Now, the question comes who authorised the health minister to decide on this prophylaxis treatment? The BJP government must explain to the people of Goa,” state Congress president Girish Chodankar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/lower-mortality-goa-govt-defends-ivermectin-s-efficacy-against-covid19-101622188817860.html
28-05-2021||Delhi||Arvind Kejriwal insulted Tricolour, claims culture minister Prahlad Patel||Union minister Prahlad Singh Patel has accused Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal of disrespecting the national flag and violating the Flag Code of India during his televised press briefings. In his letter to Kejriwal in Hindi on Thursday, Patel said the green stripes in the flags displayed behind Kejriwal during his recent viral conferences were distorted and enlarged and the white ones reduced."Whenever chief minister Arvind Kejriwal addresses a televised briefing, my attention is often drawn to the national flag behind his chair... it is in violation of the Constitution," the Union culture and tourism minister said in his letter.For last few days,I was watching CM Arvind Kejriwal's press conferences & noticed that green stripe of flags behind him are enlarged. It's not in accordance with rules on depiction of national flag. I've written a letter to him, to maintain decorum of flag:Union Min Prahlad Patel pic.twitter.com/hwtN2EFWHH"The middle white portion appears to be reduced and seems like it has been added to green part, which is not in accordance with the rules given in 1.3 of Part 1 of the Indian Flag Code specified by the ministry of home affairs, Government of India. The manner in which the flag has been installed, it appears that instead of giving due respect to the national flag, it appears to be used for decoration,” he also said.Also read | Tough but crucial lockdown decision enabled Delhi to tame deadliest wavePatel has also written to the centre and Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal regarding the issue.Also watch: Kejriwal has insulted national flag’: Culture minister Prahlad Patel alleges violation of Flag CodeKejriwal has been holding press conference to share data on the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), lockdown rules and vaccine procurement as well as to criticise the Centre over its policies on the pandemic. On Thursday, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader sought the procurement of US pharmaceutical company Pfizer’s Covid-19 vaccine as soon as possible to inoculate children. "We shud procure this vaccine asap for our children," Kejriwal tweeted, citing a news story on fast-track approval sought by the company.Also read | ‘More lives could’ve been saved if..’: Kejriwal slams Centre on vaccine exportsHis tweet came after Pfizer sought fast-track approval for its vaccine in India. The US company has told Indian authorities that its vaccine is suitable for everyone aged 12 years or above and can be stored for a month at 2-8 degrees Celsius.On Thursday, Delhi recorded 1072 new cases of the coronavirus disease and 117 fatalities in a span of 24 hours. The number of positive cases in the Capital rose to 1,422,549 and the death toll mounted to 23,812. And on Friday, more than 186,000 new Covid-19 cases and 3660 deaths were reported in the past 24 hours across the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/arvind-kejriwal-insulted-tricolour-claims-culture-minister-prahlad-patel-101622185021986.html
28-05-2021||Other||Odisha groom dies of Covid-19 on day of his marriage||A young man in the western Odisha district of Bargarh succumbed to Covid-19 the day he was supposed to get married, officials said.“He was an amiable person. He was supposed to get married on May 25 but Covid took him away from us,” said a relative of the deceased groom.Jibardhan Bhoi, in his twenties, was supposed to get married on May 25. Hailing from Attabira in Bargarh district, Bhoi worked in a child care institution in Sambalpur district as a manager.However, on May 17, a day before he was supposed to come home for marriage, he tested positive for Covid-19 and had to be admitted to a Covid hospital in Sambalpur town. He succumbed to the infection on May 25, the day of his marriage.A pall of gloom descended over the small town of Attabira after Bhoi’s death.Early this month, a 26-year-old man in Kendrapara died of Covid-19 just 5 days after he got married. Sanjay Kumar Nayak, a native of Durgadevipada village in coastal Kendrapara district, got married on May 10 after returning from Bengaluru. However, he developed flu-like symptoms and tested positive for Covid-19 on May 13.Initially, he was in home isolation but after his condition worsened, he was admitted to a private hospital in Bhubaneswar where he succumbed to the infection on May 15.In May this year, at least 550 people in Odisha died of Covid-19, the highest since Covid-19 infections were reported in the state last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/odisha-groom-dies-of-covid-19-on-day-of-his-marriage-101622184430913.html
28-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt to give ₹5 lakh to families of those who died due to lack of oxygen||The Delhi government will give compensation amount of up to ₹5 lakh to families of those Covid-19 patients who died due to lack of oxygen.This amount will be an add-on to the already-announced ₹50,000 compensation to families of those who died due to Covid-19 infection.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government has formed a committee of six doctors to prepare the framework of the compensation.The committee will decide the framework based on which a maximum compensation of ₹5 lakh will be given.It will have the right to examine any documents related to oxygen supply, stock, and storage from the hospital concerned.This committee will send its report to the Principal Secretary (Health), Delhi, on a weekly basis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-to-give-rs-5-lakh-to-families-of-those-who-died-due-to-lack-of-oxygen-101622179448976.html
28-05-2021||Chandigarh||Positivity rate up by 10% in second Covid wave in HP||The overall positivity rate during the second wave of Covid-19 in Himachal Pradesh is 10% higher than during the first wave, the state health department data has shown. During the first wave that lasted from the outbreak in March last year to February 23, 2021, the positivity rate in the state was 5.48%, while it was 15.73% after that till date. Also read: India’s daily Covid-19 cases fall to 186,364; death toll reaches 318,895National Health Mission state director Dr Nipun Jindal said on Friday that it has been more than 15 months since the first Covid-19 case was reported in Himachal Pradesh in March last year. After that, 58,403 positive cases were recorded in the state and 982 people lost their lives till February 23. There were only 200 active cases left at that time. During the second wave that began from February-end, 1,27,416 positive cases were reported, and 1,994 people succumbed to the contagion. Dr Jindal said case fatality rate was 1.68% in the first wave, while in the second it was 1.54%. He said the government has increased its testing capacity, isolation and treatment facilities. A total of 10.63 lakh tests were done in the first wave, while the number of tests has crossed 8 lakh since February in the second wave. Another major intervention during the second wave has been the vaccination drive. The state vaccinated 18,77,950 people in the 45-plus age group with at least the first dose of Covishield. The state has also ramped up its Covid care facilities. On March 1, 2021, there were 11 dedicated centres with a total of 440 beds, including 32 ICU ones. The number such facilities has gone up to 56 with 3,860 beds of which 291 are ICU ones.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/positivity-rate-up-by-10-in-second-covid-wave-in-hp-101622179630288.html
28-05-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab CM orders ramp-up of alternate drugs to treat Mucormycosis||With as many as 188 cases of Mucormycosis (Black Fungus) reported in the state so far, chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Thursday ordered a ramp-up of stocks of alternate drugs to treat the disease in view of the shortage of Amphotericin."With only Liposomal Amphotericin B injections in the stock, and just 880 more Liposomal expected to be received today (Thursday), the CM stressed the need to strengthen alternate drug stocks as recommended by the Expert Group constituted by his government to deal with the crisis," read an official release.Also Read| 72% black fungus patients in Punjab got infection in sinusEmphasising the need to ensure that every patient has a chance to recover from Black Fungus, a disease reportedly caused by the overuse of steroids in Covid treatment, especially those suffering from diabetes, the chief minister said that along with efforts to get more of the Amphotericin drug, the state government has already made available the alternate drugs - Itraconazole (4,000 tablets) and Posaconazole (5,00 tablets), as suggested by the Expert Group.He also noted that the 6-member Expert Group has begun its task of advising hospitals on the treatment protocols and the use of various drugs being supplied to them.Giving details of the confirmed cases of Black Fungus reported till date in the government hospitals, Medical Education Secretary DK Tiwari disclosed that the maximum of 16 cases had come to light at Government Medical College (GMC), Patiala, followed by GMC Amritsar (10), GMC Faridkot (8) and GMC Mohali (2).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-cm-orders-ramp-up-of-alternate-drugs-to-treat-mucormycosis-101622178432398.html
28-05-2021||Delhi||Partly cloudy sky today; Delhi AQI in moderate category||Delhi is likely to see a partly cloudy sky on Friday, as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast.The minimum temperature on Friday is likely to be 23 degrees Celsius (°C) while the maximum temperature is predicted to reach 40°C.The minimum temperature on Thursday was 22.2°C, five notches below the normal and the maximum temperature was 41.2°C.Also Read |1,072 more Covid-19 cases, caseload drops to 54-day lowDelhi’s air quality was in the moderate category on Friday morning. Data from the Central Pollution Control Board showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 7am stood at 126. On Thursday, the average 24-hour AQI had been 150.An AQI between zero and 50 is considered good, 51 and 100 satisfactory, 101 and 200 moderate, 201 and 300 poor, 301 and 400 very poor, and 401 and 500 severe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/partly-cloudy-sky-today-delhi-aqi-in-moderate-category-101622178730285.html
28-05-2021||Bangalore||No mixing of Covid-19 vaccines taking place in Karnataka, assures deputy CM||Amid speculations of innoculation with different doses of Covid-19 vaccines, Karnataka deputy chief minister Dr CN Ashwath Narayan on Thursday assured that no mixing of vaccines is taking place in the state.While addressing reporters, Karnataka deputy CM said, "No mixing of vaccines is taking place in the State. The people are being given the same dose of vaccines.""There are speculations that the healthcare workers are being given two different shots of vaccines. However, it is not true and there is no proof of it", the deputy CM said.Meanwhile, Karnataka is battling with rising Covid-19 and black fungus (Mucormycosis) cases.Also Read| Karnataka’s Covid-19 tally goes past 2.5-million, daily deaths remain highKarnataka health minister Dr K Sudhakar on Wednesday said the state will have a new Covid-19 discharge policy and post-Covid precautions in view of the rising cases of black fungus infection.Speaking to media after a meeting with experts on containment of black fungus infection, Dr Sudhakar said, "It has been decided to formulate a new discharge policy and post-Covid precautions for patients who have recovered from Covid-19 infection."Yesterday, Karnataka reported 24,214 new Covid-19 cases, 476 deaths and 31,459 discharges, as per the State health department.In view of the Covid-19 situation in the state, Karnataka Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa on May 21 announced that the lockdown in the state has been extended till June 7.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/no-mixing-of-covid-19-vaccines-taking-place-in-karnataka-assures-deputy-cm-101622177470277.html
28-05-2021||Mumbai||Won’t make defamatory statement against Salman Khan: Kamaal Khan to Mumbai court||Actor Kamaal R Khan on Thursday assured the Bombay city civil court that he will not make any defamatory statements against Bollywood star Salman Khan on social media till June 7.Salman Khan has filed a suit against Kamaal R Khan for alleged defamatory messages on a micro-blogging site. He has sought a permanent injunction against Kamaal Khan from direct or indirect defamatory posts on social media. Salman Khan has also urged the court to direct Kamaal R Khan to withdraw, delete all the alleged defamatory posts.Also Read | New Maharashtra policy gives push to electric vehicles“A suit has been filed as the defendant has been publishing and endorsing defamatory allegations, including that Salman Khan is corrupt, he and his brand ‘Being Human’ are involved in fraud, manipulation and money laundering transactions, that he and Salman Khan Films are dacoits,” Salman Khan legal team said in a statement.It added Kamaal R Khan put out a series of tweets and videos alleging that Salman Khan has sued him for defamation because the defendant reviewed the film, Radhe. “This is incorrect.”The suit is now posted for further hearing on June 7.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/wont-make-defamatory-statement-against-salman-khan-kamaal-khan-to-mumbai-court-101622177710165.html
28-05-2021||Other||As cyclone Yaas raged, pregnant woman in Odisha carried on charpoy to hospital||As cyclone Yaas lashed Odisha coast with a wind speed of 130-140 km per hour on Wednesday morning, a 25-year-old pregnant woman of Balasore district had to be carried on a charpoy to a hospital by her family members, officials said.Sonali Nath, 25, was at her parent’s house in Balabhadrapur village of Soro block of Balasore district for her childbirth scheduled on June 17. Little did she anticipate that she would go into labour moments before the cyclone hit the Balasore coast with all its ferocity.Minutes after cyclone Yaas touched down on the coast near Bahanaga, less than 10 km from her village, Sonali went into labour and delivered a baby boy, her first child. But instead of breaking into celebration, her 68-year-old father Sambhu, became worried as the placenta did not drop from the womb.The troubles were about to begin for the family.“My daughter was howling in pain and I could do nothing. So we kept on calling an ambulance to carry her to the nearest public health centre (PHC) at Anantpur, but no ambulance came. Feeling helpless, we went to the local ASHA worker but she also refused to help as her name was registered with the ASHA of her in-law’s place. As it was getting critical, I went to the local PHC for help. When I asked for some medicines, I was told that if anything happened the PHC people would not be responsible,” said Sambhu, a Nath yogi.Finding no other way, Sambhu then decided to put her daughter and her newborn on a charpoy and carry them on shoulders after wrapping in a plastic sheet. “it was raining hard and the wind made it very difficult even to go out but we had no other option,” said Sambhu.But the walk from Balabhadrapur to the PHC was anything but easy. The 3 km stretch from Balabhadrapur and the nearest concrete road at Chakapada has been mud slicked for years. What made things worse was breaches on road by locals to drain out floodwaters from the village.“While praying to Lord Jagannath, my family and I tiptoed through the muddy roads that had already become slippery due to heavy rain. On normal days, it is difficult to walk on that road, forget walking with a pregnant woman. A wrong foot in that muddy road could have resulted in a disaster. After walking for about 10 km to the pucca road, we saw an autorickshaw. I begged him to take us to the community health centre at Soro, another 2 km away,” he said.Villagers said the Balabhadrapur-Chakapada road is yet to be made concrete despite several requests to the local administration. “The road has been like that from the days of my grandfather. No ambulance can come to our village because of the kutcha road,” said Lipshita Panda, a resident of Balabhadrapur.After reaching the Community Health Centre (CHC) at Soro, the doctor there helped in getting the placenta out and severed the umbilical cord. The baby and the mother came back home on Thursday and are doing well.Odisha health department officials said more than 750 babies were born in the state before and during the landfall of cyclone Yaas on Wednesday. Several of these children were born on Tuesday night when the cyclonic storm was approaching the country’s eastern coast, while others saw the light of the world around the time when ‘Yaas’ made its landfall near Bahanaga, 50 km south of Balasore district.Many of the kids were named Yaas by their parents after the cyclone.The state government had earlier said that as many as 4,555 pregnant women had been evacuated to various hospitals ahead of the cyclone.In the worst-affected Balasore district, 165 births - 79 male and 86 females - were registered in different health institutions amid the cyclone while 60 children were born in Bhadrak district. Mayurbhanj, which also experienced high-speed wind and extremely heavy rainfall, recorded 66 births.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/as-cyclone-yaas-raged-pregnant-woman-in-odisha-carried-on-charpoy-to-hospital-101622176691129.html
28-05-2021||Delhi||1,072 more Covid-19 cases, caseload drops to 54-day low||The Capital’s Covid-19 graph continued its downward trajectory on Thursday, with daily infections falling sharply, as Delhi added 1,072 new cases of Covid-19, over 400 fewer than the previous day.Thursday’s case count, the lowest in a single-day since March 30 (when it added 992 cases) came on the back of over 70,000 tests, and at a positivity rate of 1.53%, a number that has now dropped for 21 consecutive days.The positivity rate has now stayed below 5% for a week, and below 2% for two days.The city also saw 117 people succumb to Covid-19 on Thursday. The seven-day average deaths fell to 176, the lowest since April 20.Active cases are also at their lowest in 54 days, with 16,378 currently battling the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/1072-more-covid-19-cases-caseload-drops-to-54-day-low-101622152248112.html
28-05-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: Meet the mango man||Chicken curry, tawa rotis, a big juicy-looking mango, and a wide smile on his face.Wait, there’s more to this paradise—the shade of the tree, and the empty lockdown-era road that appears as if it had been built for him alone.And also the chirping of birds, hidden somewhere in the tree above.It is afternoon and Birender is enjoying his home-made lunch. A fruit seller, his cart is parked on the roadside near IIT-Delhi. “Just taking a break.... after which I’ll go around the area.”In his 50s, Birender lives in a one-room house in Sarojini Nagar, with wife, Kamla. “She’s the one who makes my lunch,” he says, scooping a piece of chicken with his mango-stained finger. The season’s fruit is lying partially peeled over his rotis. It’s Sundri, he says, referring to the mango’s specie. “The mango isn’t made by my wife,” he chuckles.With so much grief and anxiety raging across the city these days, due to the coronavirus pandemic, one wonders at Birender’s cheeriness—he might as well be living in some alternative reality. The fruit man shrugs, suddenly looking sombre. “I don’t show my worries,” he says, lifting up the mango to pick up a roti under it. But he has his share of troubles too. His anxiety primarily comprises of the loans he took two years ago to arrange his daughter’s wedding in home town, Gaya, in Bihar. “I had to spent about ₹20 lakh... I am not done with the lenders yet.” And with the second surge in the pandemic, his daily earnings have plunged “even though people always need fruits.”He owns some agricultural land in the village but it doesn’t yield much income. It’s tilled by people whom Birender calls bandhak—the daily wage labourers, he explains.And then there’s an even bigger worry—the future of his son, who is pursuing graduation in Gaya. “What will become of him? Will he get any job, times are so bad... will he have to come to Delhi and be a fruit-seller like me?”The question hangs in the air.By now rotis are done with. The curry bowl is licked clean. Birender earnestly sets about eating his mango. As he realises that the camera lens is again focusing on him, he grins.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-meet-the-mango-man-101622151891513.html
28-05-2021||Delhi||Clip appears to show Sushil Kumar attacking wrestler||A video that appeared to show wrestler Sushil Kumar allegedly thrashing athlete Sagar Dhankad, who later died, and which is being investigated by the Delhi Police for its authenticity, was being widely shared on social media on Thursday, showing several men attacking at least two individuals with sticks.Sushil Kumar and his associates allegedly assaulted Dhankad and two of his friends Sonu and Amit Kumar at the Chhatrasal Stadium in the national capital over a property dispute. The 38-year-old wrestler, a prime suspect in the murder case, and his associate Ajay Bakkarwala were arrested by a team of the Special Cell of Delhi Police on Sunday from Delhi’s Mundka.In the video, which could not be independently verified by HT, Kumar’s associates can be seen armed with pistols, sticks and rods. While the police did not issue an official statement on the clip, two investigators with knowledge of the matter said Kumar had the video recorded to ensure that his rival groups were felt threatened.Kumar’s legal counsel BS Jalhar was not immediately available for a response.The incident, which took place on May 4, left Dhankad dead and his friends Sonu and Amit Kumar injured.In the video, Kumar, a two-time Olympic medallist, is purportedly seen holding a stick and thrashing Dhankad, who is lying injured on the ground. Kumar is seen wearing a white T-shirt, which matches with the one in which he was seen in at toll booth on the Meerut expressway, a day after the crime, people aware of the matter said.At least 15-20 other men are also seen in the video armed with pistols and sticks. Three cars can also seen, in which Kumar and his men are believed to have brought Dhankad and two others to the stadium, they said.The police had seized these vehicles from the stadium the night the incident was reported.Dhankad and friends were assaulted following an ongoing dispute over Dhankad occupying a flat in Model Town, owned by Kumar’s wife. A cash reward of ₹1 lakh was announced before Kumar’s arrest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/clip-appears-to-show-sushil-kumar-attacking-wrestler-101622150034128.html
28-05-2021||Delhi||Pace of vaccine drive gives city hope of combating next wave of Covid-19||Over the last two months, Delhi battled a crushing fourth wave of Covid-19 cases that overwhelmed hospitals, exhausted doctors, and pushed the Capital’s medical infrastructure to the brink. For six weeks, the city has also been shut down with shops, restaurants and most offices closed, public transport at a bare minimum, and nothing but essential services functioning.But throughout these challenges, the state government continued the immunisation drive at an even clip, coordinated with the Centre and private entities, fought vaccine hesitancy and steadily increased inoculation sites.The result: Nearly one in every four eligible residents in the Capital has received at least one shot till May 26, the highest universal coverage for at least one jab among India’s 20 most populous regions. “The government left no stone unturned in increasing vaccine sites, from health facilities to schools, despite a wide range of difficulties during an unprecedented surge in cases,” said revenue minister Kailash Gahlot.The relatively high coverage has been hobbled in recent weeks by a supply shortage but will be crucial in reducing the impact of a third wave, say experts. “A high vaccine coverage will absolutely help Delhi in attaining a herd immunity-like situation with which the population can be protected against potential outbreaks in the coming days. That way, Delhi is headed in the right direction,” said Dr Jacob John, former head of clinical virology department at Christian Medical College.Data from the Union health ministry’s Co-WIN dashboard till May 26 showed Delhi gave 5,226,664 doses to fully vaccinate 1.18 million people, and partly vaccinated 2.87 million more. This means that out of the nearly 20.6 million residents in the city-state, 5.7% residents are completely vaccinated and 14% are partially vaccinated. This translates to 19.7% of the population having received at least one shot. In contrast, the national average is 14.6% -- comprising 11.5% people with one dose and 3.1% fully immunised.Only two regions come close to Delhi – Kerala at 19.1% and Jammu and Kashmir at 19%.According to Delhi’s 2020-21 economic survey , around five million people are below 18. The government said it did not have data on people from other states who got jabs in Delhi.A break-up by age showed the Capital is far ahead of its peers in vaccinating its younger population. Around 14.5% of Delhi’s 18-45 age group has received at least one shot of the Covid-19 vaccine, significantly above the national average of 5%. In the older people category, Delhi has administered at least one dose to a little over half of its population (50.4%). Four regions – Chhattisgarh, Jammu and Kashmir, Rajasthan and Gujarat – have given shots to a larger proportion of their population.PLANNED VACCINE SITESOn April 1, Delhi had 450 government vaccination sites for inoculating the city’s health care workers, frontline workers, and people aged 45 and above. The number has now increased to 720. These sites were set up primarily in hospitals and dispensaries.When the vaccine drive was opened for the 18-45 age group on May 3, the state government added another 368 sites. But these new centres were set up in public schools. “It was a challenging job because it had to be done at a time when the city was struggling for oxygen, ICUs, hospital beds, medicines. Making dedicated teams helped in this regard,” said a senior revenue department official, who did not wish to be identified.The decision to pick government schools to set up new centres was carefully thought out, and aimed to fight vaccine hesitancy, said officials.“In the first week of May, Delhi was in the middle of a severe surge of Covid-19 cases. People feared visiting hospitals. And the fear was natural because most hospitals had Covid-19 patients, which means a high chance of getting infected. So, for the 18-45 group, arrangements were made in schools. And that turned out to be a gamechanger,” said a senior health department official on condition of anonymity.Key to this success was the smooth experience of people in government centres.Arijit Sen, executive with an international audit firm based in Delhi, said: “Several of my friends went for their vaccination to the Delhi government centres and posted their pictures on social media. So, I went to a Delhi government centre to get my shot. The centres were neat and tidy. There was proper space to maintain distancing. They were organised. There was no fear at all.”Gahlot said over the last few weeks, the government’s efforts in allaying vaccine hesitancy have borne fruit.“We ensured that the service was impeccable. That is one reason why a large number of people across all social classes chose government sites for vaccination,” he said.But over the past two weeks, Delhi suffered an acute shortage of vaccines, forcing the city government to suspend 368 vaccine sites for the 18-45 group.Though 720 sites for the 45-plus group continue to function, they are out of Covaxin doses. The centres for the 45-plus have Covishield for 12 days, the government’s vaccine bulletin said on Thursday.“We have the resources and capacity to scale up vaccination, but we are out of vaccines, which forced us to shut down hundreds of vaccine sites. We hope the central government will intervene in this regard and resolve the problem by ensuring a stable supply of vaccines to Delhi. If there is no shortage of vaccines then we can ensure that the entire population of the city is vaccinated in 3 months,” said Gahlot.The Centre has repeatedly said it is doing everything possible to increase vaccine supply. “The central government is doing all the heavy-lifting, from funding vaccine manufacturers to giving them quick approvals to ramping up production to bringing foreign vaccines to India. Vaccines procured by the Centre are supplied wholly to the states... The government of India has merely enabled states to try procuring vaccines on their own, on their explicit requests,” said VK Paul, member (health), Niti Aayog, in a statement on Thursday.Despite the challenges, experts say that Delhi is headed in the right direction on vaccination. “Demand for vaccines has increased and that has translated into good turnout and high coverage at a time when the pandemic was raging. There are multiple factors. Vaccine hesitancy has reduced and the government has taken numerous initiatives in this regard. Then there is the fear factor. By early-March, a large number of people were convinced that Covid-19 had been left shattered. Delhi is headed in the right direction. It is still commendable that Delhi has been able to increase the vaccine coverage amid such a severe surge in cases,” said Dr Puneet Misra, professor at All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Delhi. “Around 70%-80% fully vaccinated people can lead to herd immunity,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/pace-of-vaccine-drive-gives-city-hope-of-combating-next-wave-of-covid19-101622149127400.html
28-05-2021||Kolkata||Former Bengal CM Buddhadeb Bhattacharya stable; has mild cough||Kolkata: Former Bengal chief minister Buddhadeb Bhattacharya,77, who was admitted to a private hospital in south Kolkata on Tuesday afternoon with Covid-19 infection, was stable, the hospital authorities said in a bulletin at 10 pm on Thursday. “He is having mild dry cough today. He is taking food orally,” the bulletin said. The former chief minister and his wife tested positive for Covid-19 on May 18. gal, 71, was admitted to Woodlands Hospital the same day . She was released on May 24 but had to be admitted again the next day following a panic attack, hours after her husband was rushed to the hospital. She was stable, the hospital authorities said. The former chief minister was being treated at home till his oxygen saturation level dropped below 90%. He is on non-invasive ventilator. A panel of seven doctors has been formed for his treatment. Thursday night’s bulletin said Bhattacharya’s oxygen level in blood had reached 92% with support and his heartbeat rate was 56 per minute. “He is presently conscious, alert... His blood pressure is stable,” said the bulletin. Bhattacharya, one of the most senior leaders of the CPI(M), is a patient of Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD). He could rarely leave home in the last few years. In October last year, Bhattacharya was in the same hospital for six days. He was admitted in critical condition with symptoms such as breathlessness and low oxygen count in blood. He was put on ventilation. However, his condition improved fast. Bhattacharya tested negative for Covid-19 in October.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/former-bengal-cm-buddhadeb-bhattacharya-stable-has-mild-cough-101622147883745.html
28-05-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal logs 59 fatalities, highest in Kangra||Himachal Pradesh recorded 1,472 fresh coronavirus infections on Thursday, pushing the state’s tally to 1,85,819 while the death toll mounted to 2,976 after 59 more patients succumbed to the contagion. Of the new cases, 381 were reported in Kangra, 219 in Shimla, 155 in Mandi, 137 in Hamirpur, 116 in Una, 101 in Sirmaur, 96 in Bilaspur, 90 in Solan, 89 in Chamba, 46 in Kinnaur, 40 in Kullu and six in Lahaul-Spiti. At 25, the highest 25 fatalities were reported in Kangra, eight in Mandi, seven in Shimla, five in Solan, four in Hamirpur, three in Sirmaur, two each in Bilaspur, Chamba and Kullu and one in Lahaul-Spiti. Recoveries reached 1,62,636 after 3,409 people recuperated. The active cases now stand at 20,184. Kangra remains the worst-hit district with 42,330 infections. It is followed by Mandi with 24,902 cases and Shimla with 23,416 cases. Solan has 21,121 cases, Sirmaur 14,263 , Hamirpur 13,167, Una 12,066, Bilaspur 11,683, Chamba 9,431 , Kullu 8,088, Kinnaur 2,828 and Lahaul-Spiti 2,524.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-logs-59-fatalities-highest-in-kangra-101622147763877.html
28-05-2021||Chandigarh||J&K logs 2,769 fresh Covid infections, 37 deaths||Jammu and Kashmir on Thursday witnessed 2,769 fresh coronavirus infections and 37 fatalities, taking the overall cases to 2, 81,628 and death toll to 3,739.As many as 4,352 people were discharged, including 2,592 from Kashmir and 1,760 from Jammu. The overall number of people who have recuperated has reached 2, 35,617, which has improved the recovery rate (83.66%). There are now 42,272 active cases in the Union Territory (UT). Of the deaths, 24 were reported in Jammu division and 13 in Kashmir. Of the new cases, 1,805 are from Kashmir, 964 from Jammu, and 26 are travellers. Officials said 44,271 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, with the overall number of tests reaching 8.4 million. Financial commissioner health and medical education (H&ME) department, Atal Dulloo said the current trend of Covid cases shows that the virus has spread in villages while earlier it was limited to cities and major towns.He said to overcome the challenge a training programme has been initiated for master trainers wherein frontline workers at block and village level shall be trained to conduct Covid tests and raise awareness among the masses.“Under ‘training for master trainers’, frontline workers including anganwadi workers, Asha workers, ANM, sarpanchs, panchs, lumberdars, chowkidars and others will be provided training regarding conducting Covid tests under the supervision of medical officers,” Dulloo said during the inauguration of a programme at JLNM Hospital in Srinagar.Jammu and Kashmir’s Covid infections have breached all records in the month of May, reaching 1, 05,545, while the month’s fatalities have touched 1,457. The number of patients who have recovered from the disease this month so far is 90,176. The month witnessed the peak of the second wave in the first half and is now seeing plateauing of the cases in the second half. Officials said with 384 cases, Jammu had the highest number of new infections, followed by 377 in Srinagar district, 260 in Baramulla, 217 in Kupwara and 205 in Anantnag.Dulloo said that the Covid care centres at Panchayat and block level; primary health centers and sub-centres will help to stop the referral of non-severe Covid patients to tertiary care hospitals. “It will eventually reduce pressure on such hospitals,” he said. Srinagar and Jammu districts have together contributed for about 1.13 lakh cases and 1,768 deaths of the total. The Jammu district has the highest number of 1,013 fatalities followed by Srinagar with 755 deaths.118-year-old man gets 1st jab in ReasiAn 118-year-old man received the first jab of the coronavirus vaccine during an inoculation drive organised by the Reasi district administration on Thursday. After receiving the shot, the centenarian Sher Mohammad of Mahore tehsil, said, “After getting the jab, I feel confident and protected as the vaccine is the biggest shield against the deadly disease.” Asking people to disregard rumours, Mohammad said, “If I can receive the dose at my age, others should not shy away and pay no attention to hearsay,” he said.JCCI demands relief package for traders dealing with non-essential goods
28-05-2021||Chandigarh||Alleging corruption, Srinagar mayor, corporators demand removal of officer||Demanding removal of the joint commissioner planning for corruption, the Srinagar municipal corporation (SMC) mayor and corporators staged a protest and launched an indefinite hunger strike here on Thursday. Mayor Junaid Azim Mattu alleged that the MC’s joint commissioner planning Ghulam Hassan Mir, who is also the head of the task force against illegal constructions and deals with building permissions, was involved in corruption. “The indefinite hunger strike by 61 elected representatives of Srinagar should serve as an eye-opener. An inefficient and corrupt joint commissioner planning is patronising illegal constructions and is defaming the MC,” Mattu said.Mattu, who is also an Apni Party leader, had written to the government on Saturday seeking removal of Mir and his repatriation to his parent department housing and urban development department (HUDD).“Ordinary citizens are being harassed as they are not getting permissions. This has been going on for over a year,” Mattu said.“Many illegal constructions are mushrooming in Srinagar because people are not getting permissions. leaving people with no other option,” he said. Mir threatens law suit Denying the allegations, Mir said he will file a defamation suit against Mattu after speaking to his lawyers. “I will file a ₹5 crore defamation suit against Mattu. He can stage a protest seeking a person’s transfer but he cannot resort to character assassination,” Mir said. “There are no political interventions in service guarantee issues such as building permissions, death and birth registrations. These are usual municipal services, which follow a defined process. The files move from level-to- level before being approved by the commissioner. We issue permissions once a person submits the fee,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/alleging-corruption-srinagar-mayor-corporators-demand-removal-of-officer-101622147347381.html
28-05-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana’s active cases dip to 28K, most in Hisar||Haryana recorded 2,322 coronavirus infections, 5,679 recoveries and 98 deaths on Thursday. The number of active infections came down to 28,189. According to a medical bulletin, the daily positivity rate was 5.51% and cumulative positivity rate was 8.48%. The recovery rate was 95.18% and the fatality rate was 1.06%. There were 927 critically ill patients, including 266 on ventilator support. Hisar with 2,839 active infections has the highest number of active cases followed by Sirsa (2,806), Gurugram (2,558), Rewari (2,141), Karnal (1,935) Faridabad (1,691), Fatehabad (1,462), Rohtak (1,455), Panchkula (1,315), Bhiwani (1,280), Mahendergarh (1,239), Panipat (1,234), Yamunanagar (1,040). Meanwhile, health minister Anil Vij on Thursday said that the number of beds for patients infected with black fungus will be increased from 20 to 75 in all government medical colleges. Vij who was reviewing the Covid, and black fungus situation said 522 patients of black fungus infection were undergoing treatment in various medical colleges at present. He said that medicines will be made available to these patients as per their requirement without any delay and there will be no shortage of injections and other medicines required for the treatment of the disease. The health minister said that for the operation and management of the pressure swing adsorption (PSA) oxygen plants being installed at eight locations, additional staff and officers should be put on duty for regular monitoring. Over 1-lakh tests done in rural areas since May 15During the door-to-door screening in rural areas that began on May 15, samples of over 1-lakh people were taken for Covid-19 testing, as per the official data. The samples included 90,474 rapid antigen and 17,378 RT-PCR tests out of which 3,781 people tested positive. The state government has so far distributed Covid-19 kits among 24,550 patients in home isolation.Another black fungus death in KarnalKARNAL One more death due to black fungus has been reported in Karnal, taking the toll in the district to nine. Nine more new fungal infections have been reported from Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College and Hospital (KCGMCH) in the past 24 hours. As per the details provided by the district health authorities, the deceased was a 42-year-old man from Kutail village of the district. He was tested positive of coronavirus earlier this month and was admitted to the KCGMCH. He died late Wednesday evening. Officials said of the nine deaths due to black fungus, seven were from Karnal district alone. The number of people diagnosed with black fungus at KCGMCH has reached 41.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryanas-active-cases-dip-to-28k-most-in-hisar-101622147345920.html
28-05-2021||Chandigarh||Farm stir: Punjab assembly panel meets police torture ‘victims’, records statements||The Punjab Vidhan Sabha committee on atrocities on farmers on Thursday met those who were allegedly tortured by police in Delhi and Haryana or got injured during the agitation against the Centre’s three agriculture laws. The committee comprising MLAs Kuldeep Singh Vaid, Kulbir Singh Zira, Saravjit Kaur Manuke, Fateh Jung Singh Bajwa and Harinderpal Singh Chandumajra recorded the statements of 14 farmers. Bajwa was not present in Thursday’s meeting. Vaid, who heads the committee comprising MLAs from all parties, said it was constituted by assembly speaker Rana KP Singh seeking a detailed report on alleged atrocities on the farmers during the protests.The panel members said they would visit the places of residence of the victim farmers.“So far, we have come to know about 70-80 farmers who were tortured by the police or faced atrocities in jail. We will meet every victim,” said Vaid who assured justice to the victims, saying they would highlight every atrocity in the report to the Vidhan Sabha.Vaid said anyone who suffered at the hands of the police and want to record their statement can call helplines 97797-11022 and 80544-95901.Manuke, an Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MLA, accused the BJP government at the Centre of defaming the farmers by citing rise in Covid-19 cases in villages. She said the government does not have adequate vaccine and instead of ramping up the vaccination drive in rural areas they are busy defaming the farming community.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/farm-stir-punjab-assembly-panel-meets-police-torture-victims-records-statements-101622146684509.html
28-05-2021||Chandigarh||Submit probe reports against hospitals to district panels: HC||The high court on Thursday directed Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh to submit probe reports on allegations of overcharging against hospitals and labs with the district-level nodal committees. A high court bench monitoring the Covid-19 situation in the two states and the UT said the nodal committees will keep these reports in a sealed cover, which the court may examine at the appropriate stage. The high court bench also said that the rates for RAT and RT-PCR tests in both the states and UT should be uniform and asked Haryana and Chandigarh to consider bringing it down to Punjab level, which has fixed charges of ₹350 for RAT and ₹450 for the RT-PCR. The bench also exhorted Punjab and Haryana government to bring down HRCT (chest) rates to ₹1,800, as fixed by the UT. The court also observed that ICU control rooms be set up by hospitals for sharing information regarding the medical condition of a patient with the kith and kin. The court appreciated the services rendered by frontline workers and also asked both the states and UT to furnish details of those who shirk their duties in these difficult times to the nodal committees, which the court would examine at the appropriate stage. Positivity rate down to 2.98% in Punjab: AG Punjab advocate general Atul Nanda told the high court that the positivity rate in the state has come down to 2.98% in urban and 3.74% in rural areas. On May 18, the state had told the court that in the first half of May, the case positivity rate was 16% and 9.98%, respectively. Nanda further told the court that an expert committee has examined the issue of black fungus and issued advisories. Besides, injectable drug amphotericin-B has been procured but is still short of the demand and the intervention of the Centre is required, Nanda told the court, adding that the Centre has also been requested for providing more ventilators, particularly for paediatric use. Reacting to various demands raised, additional solicitor general Satya Pal Jain assured the court that needful will be done without any delay. He further assured that any demand from Chandigarh and of Haryana will also be considered forthwith and necessary steps will be taken. The case will now be taken up on June 28.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/submit-probe-reports-against-hospitals-to-district-panels-hc-101622146683421.html
28-05-2021||Chandigarh||Fugitive Lakha Sidhana kicks off campaign to mobilise support for farm stir in Punjab||Gangster-turned-activist Lakha Sidhana, who is wanted by the Delhi Police in the Red Fort violence incident, on Thursday started a village-to-village campaign to mobilise people to participate in the protests at the Delhi border against the Centre’s three agriculture laws. Addressing a gathering at Sangrur district’s Mehlan Chowk village, Sidhana appealed to people to join the ongoing agitation to “save Punjab”. “We appealed to people to move to Delhi in groups. If we manage to reach the Delhi borders in large numbers, the farmers will definitely win this battle,” said Sidhana. Meanwhile, his supporters said a heavy police force was deployed in the Dirba area where Delhi cops were also present to arrest him. Fearing arrest, he left the protest site and appeared after his supporters along with Punjabi singer Kanwar Grewal staged a protest in front of the Chhajli police station. The local police denied the presence of Delhi cops in the area or any orders to arrest the fugitive who was to hold protests at Shadihari, Chhajli, Daula Singhwala, Jakhepal and Ratta Khera villages in the district. Sukh Jagraon, a protester, said, “We will not call off the protest until police assure us that they will not stop us from holding protests.”.Dirba deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Mohit Agarwal said they deployed cops to maintain order. “We appealed to them to hold the protest peacefully. We had neither any intimation from the Delhi Police nor direction to arrest anyone,” the DSP added.In April, Sidhana led a march of farmers protesting against the three agriculture laws to the Delhi border from Gurdwara Mastuana Sahib in the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/fugitive-lakha-sidhana-kicks-off-campaign-to-mobilise-support-for-farm-stir-in-punjab-101622146626259.html
28-05-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab extends Covid curbs till June 10||The Punjab government on Thursday extended the coronavirus restrictions till June 10 but removed the limit on the number of passengers in personal vehicles and allowed the resumption of elective surgeries and OPD in hospitals. The state government had imposed extensive curbs, in addition to measures like a weekend lockdown and a night curfew to check the spread of the infection. The decision to extend the curbs was taken at a review meeting chaired by chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh here, according to a government statement. Earlier, the state government had extended the Covid curbs till May 31. The CM directed the resumption of elective surgeries in both government and private hospitals and the restoration of outpatient department (OPD) operations in view of the improvement in the coronavirus situation, the statement said. The CM also said while the limit on the number of passengers in personal vehicles is being removed, the limit on commercial passenger vehicles and taxis will continue to be in place at present. Earlier, the government had announced that not more than two persons could travel in a car.Pillion riders on a two-wheeler were also not allowed, except for those belonging to the same family and living in the same house. The deputy commissioners may make any adjustment for the opening of shops dealing in non-essential items as are merited by local conditions, the CM said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-extends-covid-curbs-till-june-10-101622146625124.html
28-05-2021||Chandigarh||44% of all Covid patients at Ambala in 26-45 age group||Since the outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic, Ambala district has reported the highest number of cases among the 26-45 age group while the maximum fatalities pertained to those aged 46 years and above, according to the health department data.It showed that till May 22, the district had recorded a total of 28,551 cases, of which 12,440 cases (44%) were from the 26-45 age bracket, followed by 10,065 (35%) from 46 years and above population, 4,400 (15%) from the 15-25 age group, while the remaining 1,626 (6%) were children below the age of 14 years.The caseload among the 26-45 group remained the highest this month as well with the said adult population accounting for almost half of the cases reported between May 8 and May 22. According to the data, out of the 4,841 cases reported in both urban and rural regions in the 15-day period, 2,322 pertained to the said age group.However, the category accounted for merely 16% (76) of the total 468 deaths recorded till Thursday. Patients above the age of 46 made up for 83% (389) of the fatalities, three patients in the 15-25 group succumbed to the virus. All children below 14 years beat the virus.Venturing out, late jabs shot up caseloadWhen quizzed about the possible reasons for the high caseload among the 26-45 group, district epidemiologist Dr Sunil Hari observed that other than late vaccination, the said population remained mostly exposed to the virus due to employment reasons.“People of this age group could not remain confined to their homes due to employment and other work. Though the mortality rate in the said group is low as compared to the elderly group, the department’s analysis has shown that half of those who died due in the second Covid wave after March 1 were working in the private sector,” the doctor said.According to the civil surgeon, the active caseload dropped to 948 as 106 fresh infections and 165 recoveries were reported on Thursday. The death rate rose to 1.58% with five more fatalities on the day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/44-of-all-covid-patients-at-ambala-in-26-45-age-group-101622146203395.html
28-05-2021||Other||Infections on a steady decline in Ludhiana but high fatality count still a worry||With 411 new cases surfacing in the last 24 hours, Ludhiana’s Covid graph continued on the downward trend on Thursday even as the high fatality count of 17 continued to be a source of worry.The recovery rate, however, crossed 90% after almost a month and settled at 90.18 %.On Wednesday, with 461 cases, the district’s daily count had dipped below the 500-mark for the first time in over a month. The number of daily cases has been steadily falling since May 16 after a fortnight of spiraling daily positive cases.The number of active cases also continued to remain below 7,000 for the second consecutive day as the count settled at 6,189 on Thursday evening.Since the outbreak in March last year, the district has logged a total of 82,835 cases and 1,945 deaths.Of the 17 who succumbed to the virus on Thursday, 10 are males while seven are females.The youngest to die is a 22-year-old woman from Ambedkar Nagar while the oldest is a 72-year-old male resident of Rajpur Road. Seven of these casualties were in their 50s while three each were in their 60s and 70s and another three were in their 40s. The district currently has 52 patients on ventilator support.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/infections-on-a-steady-decline-in-ludhiana-but-high-fatality-count-still-a-worry-101622146143252.html
28-05-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali: Senior citizens’ response to vaccination drive remains tardy||Even though Mohali district has crossed the 4,00,000 mark in the number of people vaccinated against Covid-19, senior citizens’ response remains far behind those aged between 18 and 45.According to figures from CoWin Portal, out of the 4,02,930 Mohali residents inoculated, the maximum, at 1,92,000, are from the 18-45 age group, followed by 45-60 age bracket with 94,000 vaccinations, while among the senior citizens, only 70,000 have got the jab. Health and front line workers are last in the list with only 46,930 having been immunised, even though they were the first target group when the vaccination drive began on January 16.Phase 2 of the drive for senior citizens and comorbid people aged above 45 began on March 1, that for all people above 45 years on March 23, while the 18-45 age bracket was covered from May 1 under the third phase.Notably, out of the total number, 2,18,000 are men and 1,39,000 women.In Mohali, vaccines are being administered at 58 government sites and 11 private hospitals. A drive-through campaign is also underway at the Sports Complex in Sector 78.Both Covishield and Covaxin are being offered. While the second dose of Covishield is being provided only after 84 days as per central government guidelines, Covaxin’s second dose is being administered after 28 days.Among the population covered so far, 3,60,000 have received Covishield and around 43,000 Covaxin.Deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan said the drive was picking up. “Initially, people were reluctant, but now we are getting requests for camps in different areas. There is no target for senior citizens, but the response has not been encouraging, despite the district having a good literacy rate,” he added.Dr Vikrant Nagra, in-charge for the vaccination drive in Mohali, said, “These days, all our centres are running at full capacity. The drive was stopped shortly earlier in May due to shortage of vaccine, but now the supply is regular.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohalisenior-citizens-response-to-vaccination-drive-remains-tardy-101622146085443.html
28-05-2021||Chandigarh||Lower Covid test rates, high court directs Chandigarh admn||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Thursday directed the UT administration to lower the RT-PCR and rapid antigen test (RAT) rates charged by private labs. The direction came during the hearing of a plea in which the court is monitoring the Covid-19 situation in Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh. UT had previously told the court that the rates for RT-PCR and RAT at private labs were fixed at ₹900 and ₹500, respectively. The court asked UT and Haryana to reduce the rates to Punjab level, where RAT costs ₹350 and RT-PCR ₹450, so that rates were uniform across the tricity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/lower-covid-test-rates-high-court-directs-chandigarh-admn-101622145904309.html
28-05-2021||Other||Amid pandemic, 33 Ludhiana hospitals sitting on tinder box||Already bursting at the seams with Covid patients amid the second wave of infections, 33 private hospitals in Ludhiana are sitting on a powder keg in the absence of proper fire-safety arrangements, an MC audit revealed.The municipal corporation (MC) team found glaring anomalies, including the absence of smoke and fire detection systems, lack of proper water storage capacity and installation of water pipes across the building, which may prove fatal in the event of a fire emergency.The team had carried out audits at 39 major hospitals in the city on the directions of deputy commissioner (DC) Varinder Sharma. The hospitals were checked for compliance of various safety norms, such as availability of proper ventilation, fire exit, fire-fighting equipment etc.While six hospitals --Dayanand Medical College and Hospital, Fortis Hospital, Christian Medical College and Hospital, Mohan Dai Oswal Hospital, SPS Hospital and Pancham hospital -- were found to be complying with the norms, the rest were found with certain shortcomings following which the fire department issued compliance notices to these.Fire station officer Jaswinder Singh said, “Many of these hospitals had put in place some fire safety arrangements but those were not in keeping with the norms listed in the national building code. After inspections, the fire department issued notices to erring hospitals. The managements of these hospitals, in their reply, have assured us that the required fire-safety arrangements will be made in a week or so.”A fire official, requesting anonymity, said the civil hospital and other government hospitals in the city also have glaring anomalies with regards to fire safety but authorities are turning a blind eye to the issue.MC joint commissioner Kulpreet Singh said that after serving notices, a reminder was also sent to the hospitals on May 22 to comply with the fire safety norms. The report regarding the fire audit has also been forwarded to the DC office. Further action will be initiated as per the directions from DC office.As per officials, the state government had ordered the audit after fire incidents were reported in Covid hospitals of Gujarat, Maharashtra and other states recently. Several patients had also lost their lives in these tragedies. Principal secretary of local bodies department AK Sinha also reviewed the ongoing process on Tuesday. Hospitals take corrective stepsAfter the civic body issued notices, the managements of different hospitals jumped into action for taking corrective steps. Shree Raghunath Hospital society secretary Rajneesh Jain said the fire officials highlighted some issues related to installation of fire-fighting pipes in the hospital. A new vendor has been appointed by the hospital management for repairs and installation of pipes and work has already started, he said.Similarly, Dr Baldeep Singh of Deep Hospital said, “Proper arrangements have been done in the hospital. During the inspection, the fire brigade officials had highlighted a few points regarding fire safety and corrective steps were taken on the same day.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/amid-pandemic-33-ludhiana-hospitals-sitting-on-tinder-box-101622145844412.html
28-05-2021||Chandigarh||For the first time, petrol crosses ₹90 per litre mark in Chandigarh||For the first time ever, the price of petrol in Chandigarh crossed the ₹90 per litre mark, settling at ₹90.11 on Thursday. At 84.27 per litre, diesel also reached the highest-ever price as prices were hiked for the 14th time since the beginning of May after remaining constant in March and April. Before 2021, the highest that the petrol price had gone was ₹81 per litre. When May began, petrol was priced ₹87 per litre. Fuel rates also spiked in neighbouring Mohali and Panchkula. Prices are highest in Mohali, at ₹95.86 for petrol and ₹87.52 for diesel. In Panchkula, these are higher than Chandigarh, at ₹91.33 per litre for petrol and ₹85 per litre for diesel.The price hike is hitting the petrol pump dealers hard. Proprietor of Kapoor Service Station in Sector 21, Colonel HS Kapoor (retd) said the commission earned by petrol pump dealers was still the same, while the rising price was going to the government as tax. “Worse, due to the lockdown, our sales this month are unlikely to reach even 50% of what we made in February,” he complained.Even as fuel continues to become more expensive, the price of fruits and vegetables in the city continues to remain on the lower side. Explaining this, general secretary of the Chandigarh Transport Association, BL Sharma said, “As the lockdown was enforced, we barely got any work. Drivers are happy completing deliveries at previous fuel rates even if we don’t end up earning as much as we should. A sharp increase in prices can be expected once the lockdown is lifted and the industry resumes at normal pace.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/for-the-first-time-petrol-crosses-90-per-litre-mark-in-chandigarh-101622145664079.html
28-05-2021||Chandigarh||At 200, Chandigarh’s daily Covid cases drop to lowest in 10 weeks||Active cases recede further to 3,129, lower than first wave’s peak, as recoveries rise to 55,558; seven succumb to virusContinuing its steep decline in Covid-19 spread, Chandigarh on Thursday recorded the lowest daily cases in the past 10 weeks as 200 people tested positive.However, the pandemic claimed seven more lives, pushing the city’s toll to 729.Since hitting the all-time high of 895 on May 9, the daily Covid cases in Chandigarh have slumped by 77% in the subsequent 18 days, staying below the 300 mark for the past four days. On the other hand, the deaths’ graph has been fluctuating without any major downturn.The decreasing cases are coupled with the positivity rate also winding downwards, even though the number of tests has come down from over 3,600 at the beginning of the week to around 2,600 now.Positivity rate – the proportion of samples that test positive – is a true indicator of the spread of an infection, be it growth or decline.“Though the demand for testing is decreasing, the receding positivity rate is encouraging. It reached 7.5% on Thursday after a long interval, as it was hovering around 28% in early May. But, maintaining the testing level is our priority,” said UT health secretary Arun Gupta.The city’s cumulative cases have reached 59,416. With more people getting cured, the active cases went down to 3,129 and recoveries rose to 55,558.Covid wards at GMCH to be cut downWith decreasing pandemic numbers, the pressure on hospitals is also easing out as reflected in Government Medical College and Hospital’s decision to close some Covid wards in a gradual manner.“No new Covid patient will be sent to the hospital in Sector 48 unless all beds in the Covid wards and ICUs at the GMCH-32 campus are full. The Sector-32 campus will also keep 10 beds on standby for emergencies,” said Yashpal Garg, nodal officer for Covid-19 management at GMCH-32. He added that this way, initially one wing in the next few days and then the whole hospital at Sector 48 may be closed down in the next two weeks.“The facility will remain ready if needed on a short notice. The period of lesser occupancy will be utilised to prepare for the possible third wave of Covid,” he added.Slight rise in cases in Mohali, PanchkulaWhile Chandigarh recorded a dip in cases, Mohali and Panchkula’s numbers saw slight uptick on Thursday.Against 268 a day ago, Mohali’s cases rose to 278 on Thursday, while Panchkula saw the cases increasing from 103 to 114.However, these were still much lower than their respective peaks of 1,382 and 654 on May 10 and May 5.In some respite, Mohali’s daily deaths dropped from seven the day before to four, the lowest since April 19, when an equal number of fatalities was recorded. The district’s total casualties have reached 910, while the case tally stands at 65,761. With 659 patients getting cured on Thursday, the active cases reduced further to 4,325, while the recoveries climbed to 60,526. Panchkula logged four deaths for the second day in row, taking its toll to 331.Among the deceased were a 72-year-old man from Sector 6, a 44-year-old man from Sector 8, a 43-year-old man from Kalka and a 39-year-old woman from Sector 6.The district’s caseload has reached 29,864, of which 1,291 patients are still getting treated and 28,062 have been cured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/at-200-chandigarh-s-daily-covid-cases-drop-to-lowest-in-10-weeks-101622145483468.html
28-05-2021||Chandigarh||Man hacks son to death over monetary dispute in Patiala||Patiala A man has been arrested allegedly for killing his son over a monetary dispute at Dhanetha village of Patiala district on Wednesday night. Police said Balkar Singh, 30, had altercation with his father over the money the family received after selling their wheat crop. Accused Ishwar Ram allegedly attacked Balkar with a sharp-edged weapon, killing him on the spot, police said. Station house officer, Ghagga police station, Sukhdev Singh said in the morning, the accused told the village panchayat that his son died due to excessive consumption of liquor and his last rites were to be performed at the earliest.The panchayat members got suspicious and called the police. “The accused has confessed to the crime. The weapon used to attack Balkar has also been recovered,” the SHO said.The case under Section 302 (murder) of the IPC has been registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/man-hacks-son-to-death-over-monetary-dispute-in-patiala-101622145363037.html
28-05-2021||Chandigarh||Ramp-up alternative drugs for black fungus treatment: Capt||ChandigarhChief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Thursday ordered ramping up of stocks of alternative drugs for the treatment of mucormycosis, popularly known as black fungus, in the wake of shortage of Amphotericin drug.According to an official statement, Punjab has so far reported 188 cases of black fungus and 23 deaths. Principal secretary, health, Hussan Lal said of the 188 black fungus cases, 40 were not related to Covid, while 148 were of Covid-infected persons, with 133 having been on steroid therapy and 122 on oxygen support prior to onset of mucormycosis. As many as 154 had diabetes, 56 were immuno-compromised, and 47 comorbid. A total of 156 are currently under treatment, 9 have been cured while 23 have died.As the state has only Liposomal Amphotericin B injections in stock and just 880 more such vials expected to be received, the CM stressed the need to strengthen alternative drug stocks, as recommended by the expert group constituted by the state government to deal with the crisis, according to a government statement.Stressing the need to ensure that every patient has a chance to recover from black fungus, a disease reportedly caused by overuse of steroids in Covid patients, especially those suffering from diabetes, the CM said that along with efforts to get more of the Amphotericin-B injections, the government has already made available alternative drugs --- Itraconazole (4,000 tablets) and Posaconazole (500 tablets), as suggested by the experts group.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/rampup-alternative-drugs-for-black-fungus-treatment-capt-101622145243020.html
28-05-2021||Chandigarh||Army steps in to repair ventilators at Faridkot facility||As Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital (GGSMCH), Faridkot, is facing shortage of technical support to make all the ventilators functional, army’s Western Command has stepped in to help repair non-functional life-saving machines at the facility.The Corps of Electronics and Mechanical Engineers (EME) of the Indian Army at the Western Command headquarters have offered help to repair the medical equipment. A team of army personnel from the corps of EME will reach Faridkot on Friday.The move comes a day after HT had reported that 47% ventilators at the facility are still non-functional. With 450 bed isolation facility, the GGSMCH is providing care to critical Covid patients from Bathinda, Mansa, Muktsar, Moga, Ferozepur, Fazilka and Faridkot districts. Major General Vijay Deshmukh, MGEME, headquarters, Western Command, said he has spoken to vice-chancellor of Baba Farid University of Health Sciences Dr Raj Bahadur. “Our team will be there on Friday to resolve the issue. As such, we are there to help out people any time,” he added. Officials said 15 more ventilators were made functional on Friday. Of the total 119 ventilators, 82 were functional on Friday while 37 (30%) are not working.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/army-steps-in-to-repair-ventilators-at-faridkot-facility-101622145063446.html
28-05-2021||Chandigarh||Kotkapura firing case: New SIT camps in Faridkot, records witnesses’ statements||The newly constituted three-member special investigation team (SIT) of Punjab Police probing the post-sacrilege firing incident at Kotkapura in 2015 on Thursday set up its camp office in Faridkot and recorded statements of witnesses afresh. The SIT had summoned 42 persons, who had given their statements to previous SIT in the case. However, only 25 of them appeared before the new SIT. Officials said even some persons, who were not summoned by the SIT, also gave their statements. The SIT headed by additional director general of police (vigilance bureau) LK Yadav, along with other two members --- Ludhiana police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal and Faridkot range DIG Surjit Singh --- reviewed the status of the probe so far.The Punjab and Haryana high court had on April 9 quashed all reports filed by the previous SIT headed by the inspector general of police (now retired) Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh in the case. The state government constituted the new three-member SIT that has been directed to complete the investigation within six months. On May 13, the Yadav-led SIT started the probe by recording the statements of cops injured in the incident, besides taking case records in possession from the local police station. The Yadav-led SIT is recording fresh statements of the witnesses because the high court observed in its order that Kunwar Vijay “manipulated” the statements. The SIT also made an appeal to people that any person who wants to give information or evidence related to the case can meet the probe team in person at the Faridkot circuit house on Friday, or contact on WhatsApp number (9875983237) and email id “newsit2021kotkapuracase@gmail.com”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/kotkapura-firing-case-new-sit-camps-in-faridkot-records-witnesses-statements-101622144943119.html
28-05-2021||Other||Ludhiana village deters tenants from cremating bodies in village sans permission||A row erupted in Sahnewal Khurd village after the panchayat deterred tenants from cremating the bodies of their kin within the village limits without taking prior permission. A hoarding conveying the diktat has also been installed near the cremation ground here.The matter came to light when Karnail Singh, 58, a resident of Sahni village, had taken his wife’s body to the common cremation ground in Sahnewal Khurd on May 13 for her last rites. The village panchayat denied him permission to go ahead with the cremation following which the body was taken to Sahnewal in a tractor trailer.The panchayat, meanwhile, justified the diktat, stating that the decision was taken with a view to deter crime incidents. They claimed that allowing cremations without a check will encourage anti-social elements, who may try to cremate the bodies of their kin, friends or victims after murder incidents here.They also said that in some cases it was observed that proper procedure was not followed in cremation rituals carried out by tenants.Rajinder Singh, husband of Sarpanch Jasbir Kaur, said the panchayat has taken the decision as they found that some don’t follow the rituals. The tenants can cremate the bodies of their dead family members after their landlord takes the responsibility, he said.When contacted, Sahnewal station house officer sub-inspector Balwinder Singh said the panchayat has taken the decision unanimously and asked people to cremate the bodies only after informing the panchayat. “Some villagers have opposed the decision but we are trying to resolve the matter,” the SHO said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-village-deters-tenants-from-cremating-bodies-in-village-sans-permission-101622144822920.html
28-05-2021||Chandigarh||US lawmaker fêtes Punjab-born engineer who helped create USB specifications||WashingtonA US lawmaker has honoured Indian-American electrical engineer Ravinder Singh Shergill who held several patents related to disk storage and helped create the USB specifications.Shergill died on April 22 aged 64.“Madam Speaker, I ask my colleagues in the United States House of Representatives to join me in honouring the life of Mr Ravinder Singh Shergill. Our thoughts and prayers are with his family and friends during this difficult time,” Congressman David Valadao said in his remarks at the House of Representatives earlier this week.Born on September 12, 1956 in Punjab, Shergill migrated to the US for higher studies at the age of 17.“At the age of 17, he immigrated to the United States and later graduated from UC Berkeley with a Bachelor of Science in Electrical Engineering. He went on to work for National Semiconductor for more than three decades,” Valadao said.“As an engineer, Mr Shergill held patents involving disk storage and helped create the USB specifications. As a manager, he admired and respected as a mentor to his colleagues. His story is truly an embodiment of the American Dream,” he said.Universal Serial Bus (USB) is an industry standard that establishes specifications for cables and connectors and protocols for connection, communication and power supply between computers, peripherals and other computers.Valadao said Shergill had a great appreciation for America, but he never forgot his roots.“He was committed to bridging the Sikh and American communities together and was a founding member of the Sikh Youth of California and America. Shergill is remembered as a caring husband, father, and grandfather with a love for books, history, music, and film,” he said. Shergill is survived by his wife of 39 years, Grace Rosa; two daughters, one son and four grandchildren.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/us-lawmaker-f-tes-punjab-born-engineer-who-helped-create-usb-specifications-101622144763044.html
28-05-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab’s daily caseload falls below 4,000-mark first time in 45 days||Punjab on Thursday reported 178 more fatalities due to Covid-19, taking the toll to 14,004, while 3,914 fresh infections took the total number of cases to 5,56,089, according to a medical bulletin.This is for the first time in the past 45 days that the daily caseload has been recorded below the 4,000-mark.The number of active cases dropped from 50,549 on Wednesday to 48,231, as per the bulletin.The state’s daily recoveries of 5,995 were in excess of the daily infections of 3,914.Seventeen deaths were reported from Ludhiana, 15 from Faridkot and 13 each from Bathinda, Amritsar and Sangrur, of the latest fatalities.Ludhiana reported 411 cases, followed by 401 in Jalandhar, 344 in Bathinda and 313 in Muktsar, among fresh cases.The state’s positivity rate stood at 5.43%, as per the bulletin.With 5,995 recoveries, the number of cured persons reached 4,93,854, as per the bulletin.There are 358 critical patients who are on ventilator support, 943 other critical patients and 5,809 on oxygen support, the bulletin said.A total of 90,01,438 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjabs-daily-caseload-falls-below-4-000-mark-first-time-in-45-days-101622144582853.html
28-05-2021||Chandigarh||Two Tarn Tarn men held with eight pistols, 12 magazines in Khanna||Khanna police on Wednesday arrested two Tarn Taran men while they were on their way to deliver a consignment of illegal weapons in Amritsar. Eight pistols and 12 magazines have been recovered from them.The accused have been identified as Lovejit Singh, 25, of Gandiwind Dhandal village, Tarn Taran and Jobanpreet Singh, 26, of Pakhopur village, Tarn Taran.Police said that during questioning, the accused revealed that they work for Dharmvir Singh of Pakhopur village, who had sent them to get the weapons from Madhya Pradesh. They had hired a taxi from Agra to reach Amritsar and told the taxi driver that they are going to attend a wedding party in Amritsar. The weapons are sophisticated, even though they are countrymade, police said.Khanna senior superintendent of police (SSP) Gursharandeep Singh said that Doraha police had installed a checkpoint near FCI Godown at National Highway where they stopped the taxi for checking. On frisking, police recovered seven .32 bore pistols, one .30 bore pistol and 12 magazines .“Following their statement, the police have nominated Dharmvir in the FIR and initiated efforts for his arrest, ” the SSP added.Superintendent of police (SP, detective) Manpreet Singh said that Lovejit is already facing trial in a case of hatching a conspiracy of robbery at Harike police station in TarnTaran.A case under sections 25, 54 and 59 of Arms act has been lodged against the duo at Doraha police station. They were before a court on Thursday that remanded them to two days in police custody.Gangwar connectionThis is the second case in five days when Khanna police have recovered cache of weapons that were supposed to be delivered to Amritsar.On May 21, they arrested Harpreet Singh alias Happle alias Happy of Ward Number 9, Adarsh Nagar, Guru Harsahai, Ferozepur and recovered 11 pistols, 25 magazines and three bullets from his possession.Happy told police that he worked for Aditya Kapoor alias Makkhan of Katra Safed, Amritsar, who is facing trial in 10 cases and currently lodged at Kapurthala jail. SP Manpreet Singh said that the police had brought Makkhan on production warrant from Kapurthala jail and he is in police custody till May 28.In both cases, the accused procured the weapons from Madhya Pradesh and which were to be delivered to separate gangs in Amritsar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/two-tarn-tarn-men-held-with-eight-pistols-12-magazines-in-khanna-101622144532207.html
28-05-2021||Chandigarh||Relief: Punjab floats regularisation policy for illegally converted SCOs||In a relief to owners of shop-cum-flats (SCF) which have been illegally converted into shop-cum-offices (SCO), the local bodies department has floated a regularisation policy. Now, the owners will be able to use the entire building of SCF/SCO as a commercial unit on payment of regularisation charges, which have been fixed at ₹5,500 per sq yard. Certain conditions, such as ensuring availability of parking space, have also been laid out for those seeking regularisation.The policy, dated May 26, has been floated for the entire state and applications can be submitted till September 30.A large number of SCFs have been illegally converted into SCOs and commercial units in different parts of the city, including Sarabha Nagar main market, Bhadaur house, BRS Nagar and Kitchlu Nagar among other areas. In the past, several complaints have been received by authorities against such violations, with many cases even reaching the court. The fresh policy is expected to bring relief to such violators.LIT chairman Raman Balasubramaniam said a state-level meeting was held in April under the chairmanship of local bodies minister Brahm Mohindra wherein the government decided to provide relief to SCF owners. In Punjab four local bodies -- Ludhiana, Amritsar, SAS Nagar and Jalandhar—are being seen as high potential zones while the rest have been categorised a low-potential zones. The regularisation fee in high potential zones has been fixed at ₹5,500 per sq yard, while it is ₹4,000 in low potential zones.The owners, however, cannot make any changes to the architectural design of the building. If any additional floor has been constructed illegally in such buildings, it will be demolished. Besides, the owners will also have to submit a structure-safety certificate. The payment of regularisation fee can also be made in four to six monthly installments with 12% annual interest. A penalty of 3% will be imposed on delayed payments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/relief-punjab-floats-regularisation-policy-for-illegally-converted-scos-101622144529515.html
28-05-2021||Chandigarh||Mattewara Industrial Park: Punjab chief secy told to take steps to protect Sutlej floodplains||A five-judge bench of the National Green Tribunal has ordered the Punjab chief secretary to take remedial actions for protection of the floodplains of Sutlej river in Ludhiana, in coordination with the River Rejuvenation Committee. Four social activists from the city- Kapil Arora, Kuldeep Khaira, Mohit Jain and Gagnish Singh Khurana, had moved NGT against the proposed amendment to the master plan of Ludhiana for developing a modern industrial park in the forest area and floodplains of Sutlej river in violation of the Forest (Conservation) Act, 1980 and the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986.The state government had proposed to establish an industrial park over around 960 acres of government and panchayat land at villages including Haidar Nagar, Sekhowal, Salempur, Sailkiana and Machian Kalan. The Greater Ludhiana Area Development Authority (GLADA) has already acquired the land.The activists rued that the proposed industrial park site is surrounded by protected forests from two sides and deemed forests as well as Satluj river towards the third i.e. rear side. Apart from damaging the forest and disturbing the wildlife, an industrial park will also damage the river.“Since most of the land which is to be developed as an industrial park comes under floodplains of Sutluj, we have submitted references of the district survey report prepared by the Ludhiana district mining officer with the NGT. The tribunal further stated that River Rejuvenation Committees has already been formed in the states and Sutlej is among the 351 polluted rivers for which an action plans have been made,” said Arora.What is a flood plain?A floodplain is an area of land adjacent to a river which stretches from the banks of its channel to the base of the enclosing valley walls and experiences flooding during periods of high discharge.Khaira stated that the Punjab government had marked active flood plains as no manufacturing zones within an area of one kilometre from Dhusi Bandh along the entire stretch of Satluj passing through Ludhiana. He added that in the last two decades, there have been frequent incidents of major breaches in embankments (Dhusi Bandh) at Mattewara village, Garhi Fazal and its surrounding areas.Khaira added that the gazette notification for amendment has not come till date, but the land has already been transferred in the name of GLADA. Accordingly, GLADA has fixed the rates of land per acre and invited expression of interests from industrialists.Kapil stated that the NGT had observed that protection of forests is covered by the statutory mandate of the Forest (conservation) Act, 1980 and no non-forest activity is allowed in forest areas without statutory clearances. There is no reason to presume that the said mandate will be ignored.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mattewara-industrial-park-punjab-chief-secy-told-to-take-steps-to-protect-sutlej-floodplains-101622144462753.html
28-05-2021||Other||Punjab expands 18-45 age group vaccination priority list||Amid a shortage of Covid vaccine, the Punjab government on Thursday expanded the inoculation priority list for the 18-45 age group. It will be effective from June 1, a government statement said.The new priority list includes those from the hospitality sector, shopkeepers and their staff, industrial workers, street vendors, delivery boys, bus and cab drivers, conductors and members of local bodies.Chief minister capt Amarinder Singh, who chaired a coronavirus review meeting, said as of date, 4.3 lakh individuals in the existing vaccination priority list of construction labour, co-morbid individuals and families of healthcare workers in this age group had been vaccinated. He said besides shopkeepers and their staff members, as well as industrial workers, the expanded priority list will include staff working in hotels, restaurants, marriage palaces, caterers, including cooks, bearers etc. In addition to rehriwalas, other street vendors will also become eligible, especially those serving food items - juice, chat, fruit, as well as delivery boys, LPG distribution boys. Bus drivers, conductors, auto/ cab drivers, mayors, councilors, sarpanches and panches will also be covered in this phase of 18-45 age group vaccination. Punjab receives 1.14 lakh Covaxin doses The Punjab government on Thursday evening received fresh supply of 1.14 lakh doses of Covaxin directly from BharatBiotech for the 18-45 age group. This is the first paid supply of Covaxin to Punjab. With this, the inoculation drive for 18-plus is expected to start from Friday again.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punjab-expands-18-45-age-group-vaccination-priority-list-101622144403200.html
28-05-2021||Chandigarh||Involve youth in fight against Covid: Capt to officials||Chandigarh As part of the mission “Fateh 2.0”, chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Thursday launched the Covid-free Punjab campaign. The CM directed officials to form groups of youngsters in villages to support the fight against the pandemic. He said villages are severely affected by the second wave of Covid and a strong campaign for “corona-mukt pind” is needed.He directed the department of sports and youth affairs and deputy commissioners to form groups of seven rural corona volunteers (RCVs) per village or municipal ward as a cadre to assist in fighting the pandemic.The CM tasked the RCVs with carrying test, tracing, treating and taking care of poor and elderly, besides connecting them to the Covid control rooms and helplines. He also asked them to conduct “theekri phras” in all villages, promote Covid appropriate behaviour, assist villagers in accessing adequate healthcare and discourage quacks.The CM announced that the department of youth affairs has started distributing 1 lakh badges and 4 lakh car stickers carrying the message “I am vaccinated”, and urged the RCVs to encourage people who have received the jab to flaunt their vaccination status.On the occasion, brand ambassador of the state’s Covid vaccine campaign Sonu Sood underscored the need to create awareness amongst people, especially in rural areas about the importance of vaccination. Health minister Balbir Sidhu expressed concern over the spread of black fungus, for which the state had received only 1,000 doses of anti-viral drug as against the required 15,000.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/involve-youth-in-fight-against-covid-capt-to-officials-101622144282741.html
28-05-2021||Chandigarh||Gangster, accomplice shot dead in Patti||Two car-borne assailants shot dead a gangster and his accomplice in the border town of Patti in Tarn Taran district on Thursday morning, police said, adding that the third person accompanying them was injured in the firing.The deceased were identified as Amandeep Singh, alias Aman Fauji (28), who was also an Akali worker, and Prabhjit Singh, alias Pooran (27), while their accomplice Shamsher Singh, alias Shera (30) of Patti, was injured. All three were returning after paying obeisance at a peer dargah (saint’s tomb) when the assailants opened fire at them at Nadohar roundabout in Patti town at 6.45am, the police said. Fauji and Pooran died on the spot while Shera was rushed to a private hospital in Amritsar where his condition is stated to be stable, police said.Hours after the incident, a Facebook post from the account on one Ravi Dhaliwal, tagging 12 other users, including gangster Goli Kazikot, claimed that the killings were the handiwork of the Jaggu Bhagwanpuria gang. Bhagwanpuria is lodged in a jail. The victims were the supporters of the Bhagwan Kazikot gang, rival of the Goli Kazikot gang. Later, another FB post from Goli Kazikot’s account read that they don’t have anything to do with the killings. Another post from Preet Sekhon Amritsaria account read that Fauji was executed by their men, threatening that those against them will meet the same fate. Senior superintendent of police (SSP) Dhruman H Nimbale said they were analysing the Facebook posts claiming responsibilities for the killings. “Preet Sekhon is not linked to any gang but he is accused of killing a bouncer in Amritsar. Our teams are working to trace him,” the SSP said. He said Fauji was a gangster and had been facing five criminal cases, including two of attempt to murder. “As per our information, Fauji was also involved in drug smuggling. Similarly, Shera was facing a case under the NDPS Act, while Prabjit had no criminal background,” he said.The SSP said that a case was registered under Sections 302 (murder) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), besides Sections 25-54-59 of the Arms Act against unidentified persons at the Patti city police station.BoxFauji was party worker: SAD Later in the day, Shiromani Akali Dal leaders and workers along with the victims’ family members staged a protest in Patti city by keeping the bodies on the road. Former minister Adesh Partap Singh Kairon’s political adviser Gurmukh Singh Ghulla said: “Fauji was our staunch worker. He was never convicted in any case. All the cases against him were politically motivated.” He alleged that Congress leader Harman Sekhon had been holding a grudge against Fauji. “He should be arrested and investigated. We doubt that the crime was executed at Harman’s behest,” alleged Gurmukh.Sekhon, who is the district president of the Youth Congress, was booked by Amritsar (rural) police for allegedly running liquor smuggling nexus in the Majha region of Punjab.The SSP said: “We will also probe Harman Sekhon’s role in the case. But, so far, we don’t have any evidence against him. Even the family members of the victims had not given their statements to the police despite our repeated requests.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/gangster-accomplice-shot-dead-in-patti-101622144222623.html
28-05-2021||Chandigarh||Apprise court of delay in probes against MPs, MLAs: HC to agencies||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Thursday asked different probe agencies to apprise the court of inordinate delay, if any, in completion of investigations against sitting and former MPs and MLAs, pending before various investigating agencies.“Needless to observe that undue delay in concluding an investigation is infringement to right to fair and expeditious investigation and trial, which flows from Article 21 of the Constitution,” a high court bench said while fixing the matter for further hearing for July 19. The court was hearing a suo motu plea initiated upon apex court orders on monitoring trials against sitting and former MPs and MLAs. Meanwhile, the Centre shared details of four cases of the Enforcement Directorate (ED) going on in different courts. It told the court that in two ED cases of Punjab against two ex-MLAs Avinash Chander and Sarwan Singh Phillaur, charges have been framed. However, proceedings have been stayed by the apex court. The Centre also apprised the court that two ED cases are going on against former Haryana CM Bhupinder Singh Hooda before a special court in Panchkula. As of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), it sought more time from the court to furnish details.Haryana informed court that a total of 68 criminal cases against 34 former/sitting MPs/MLAs are pending in the state out of which 21 are under trial, three cases have been transferred to the CBI and 44 are under investigation. These cases are registered against two sitting MPs/MLAs of outside Haryana and 10 sitting/Ex-MLAs of Haryana, the court was informed.On the last date of hearing, Punjab had told court that 163 cases are pending against sitting and former MPs and MLAs in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/apprise-court-of-delay-in-probes-against-mps-mlas-hc-to-agencies-101622144042878.html
28-05-2021||Dehradun||Forest research team captures rare video of King Cobra mating in Himalayas||Nainital: Uttarakhand forest department’s research wing has captured the mating of King Cobras in the forests of Nainital district of the himalayan state under its five-year research project on the world’s largest poisonous snake. Sanjiv Chaturvedi, chief conservator of forests (CCF) and in-charge of state forest research wing said they had been tracking the presence of these snakes in various parts of the state as part of this project.“Over a week ago, our research fellow Jyoti Prakash Joshi and another researcher Jigyasu Dolia spotted and captured the mating of King Cobras pair in forests of Nainital district on video. Though King Cobras have been sighted many times in the state, especially in Kumaon and their nests have also been found, this is for the first time that the state forest department has captured their mating on camera”, Sanjiv Chaturvedi said.In June 2018, the research advisory committee (RAC) of the forest department had approved the proposal on a five-year research project on King Cobras in the state. The research fellows named for the project work with the forest department’s field staff were mandated to study the King Cobra’s habitat, estimate their numbers, threats to their existence and conservation initiatives needed to save them.Even as King Cobras are mostly found in hot rain forests of South India and North East, researchers and scientists have recorded King Cobra nests and their sightings in Uttarakhand since the 1920s.Chaturvedi said in October 2012, a King nest was sighted at 2303 m elevation at Mukteshwar, which is the highest recorded elevation for the King Cobra in its worldwide range.“Over 132 sightings of King Cobra have been confirmed in Uttarakhand between 2015 to July 2020. In the last 5 years, they have been seen in 5 districts of the state, including Nainital (83), Dehradun (32 records), (12 records), Uttarkashi (3) and Haridwar (2)”, he said.Chaturvedi said the study will help them to form a conservation plan for this magnificent snake species in the Himalayan state, where it is facing similar threats faced by the wildlife.“For conservation of King Cobras, it is necessary to monitor their movement and involve local people in conservation initiatives by effective awareness-building efforts. This would develop an understanding of locals towards their conservation”, he said.Vipul Mourya, wildlife expert from Dehradun-based Wildlife Institute of India (WII) said given its reputation, King Cobras mainly face threat from people who consider it very dangerous.“Apart from that fragmentation of forests and increasing human presence in forests can also affect it in varied ways. Till now I haven’t come across any video of its mating in the state”, he said.AG Ansari, wildlife expert from Nainital, who has rescued many King Cobras said they were first reported in the state in 1920s and are mainly found in pine and oak forests of Nainital where they find humid conditions for their temperature-sensitive hatching of eggs.“Till now, I have not come across any video of its mating. This is likely the first such video and that makes it very interesting”, he said.Ansari said King Cobra is also on the target list of the poachers. “Till now it has been found in areas like Nainital, Dehradun, Haridwar, Rishikesh, Rajaji National Park (RNP), Ramnagar and other forest divisions of the state”, he said.In India, King Cobra (Ophiophagus Hannah) is found in the Western Ghats, the Shivalik and Terai regions of Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Odisha, West Bengal, and the Andaman Islands. It is known to feed primarily on snakes including their own species. King Cobra is the national reptile of India and the only snake known to build nests. It is listed under Schedule II of the Indian Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972 and as Vulnerable in IUCN Red List of Threatened Species. The venom of the King Cobra consists primarily of neurotoxins, known as the Haditoxin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/forest-research-team-captures-rare-video-of-king-cobra-mating-in-himalayas-101622143802730.html
28-05-2021||Other||Trainer aircraft makes emergency landing on Yamuna e-way; both pilots safe||A two-seater trainer aircraft made an emergency landing on Yamuna Expressway at 12.30 noon on Thursday following a technical glitch. Both the instructor and trainee pilot were safe, police said.“The plane belonging to a private firm was moving from Narnaul in Haryana to Aligarh in Uttar Pradesh when it developed some snag and had to make an emergency landing on the expressway within limits of Naujheel police station of Mathura district,” said senior superintendent of police (SSP) Mathura Dr Gaurav Grover. Incharge of Naujheel police station, Lokesh Bhati, said assistance teams from Aligarh and Delhi have arrived to fix the problem.He added that the aircraft was parked on one side of expressway in a way that there was no hassle for regular traffic movement.Earlier in 2015, the Indian Air Force (IAF) had successfully test landed a Mirage-2000 on the Yamuna Expressway near Mathura as part of its trials to use national highways and civil airstrips for emergency landing by its fighter jets in future.The 165-Km long expressway connects Agra with Noida and passes through districts of Mathura and Aligarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/trainer-aircraft-makes-emergency-landing-on-yamuna-e-way-both-pilots-safe-101622143381559.html
28-05-2021||Mumbai||Maha Class 10 students to be promoted||The government has decided to promote Class 10 (SSC) students in the backdrop of the Covid-19 pandemic. It has decided to promote them by evaluating their performance in Class 9 and 10. The decision was taken in a meeting between chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and school education minister Varsha Gaikwad on Thursday evening. “We will be considering the performance of each and every student, based on which they will be promoted. For this, the department will evaluate the performance of the students in Class 9 and 10 and only then they will be promoted,” said a senior official. The state had declared to cancel board examinations of Class 10, which was objected by the Bombay HC, saying it was making a mockery of the education system. The school education department discussed the matter with state advocate general Ashutosh Kumbhakoni and is likely to file an affidavit before HC. “The state believes that the Covid-19 situation has put the lives of children at risk. It is also said that the third wave is going to be dangerous for children. We are all going to explain all this to the HC,” said the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maha-class-10-students-to-be-promoted-101622143021395.html
28-05-2021||Other||Maharashtra lifts ban on liquor sale in Chandrapur district||The Maharashtra government decided to lift the ban on liquor sale in Chandrapur district. The decision to lift the ban – imposed by the erstwhile Devendra Fadnavis-led Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government in 2015 – was taken in the state cabinet meeting held on Thursday.The government said that the decision was taken after the Amarnath Jha committee’s report, submitted on March 9, found that the ban had failed owing to the illicit sale of country-made and duplicate liquor in the district, which are dangerous to health. “The committee also found that the crime rate had increased in the district to 40,381 between 2015 and 2019 from the 16,132 cases recorded between 2010 and 2014,” stated a press release issued by the chief minister office.The committee was formed after the issue of illicit sale of liquor was raised in the state Assembly in July 2018. The then excise minister had assured to constitute a committee to give recommendations to the state government on the issue. Vijay Wadettiwar, state relief and rehabilitation minister and guardian minister of Chandrapur district, said, “The cabinet has decided to lift the ban considering its [the ban’s] adverse effects. The decision was taken after talking to all the stakeholders and following the recommendations of the committee.”Former finance minister Sudhir Mungantiwar and BJP legislator from Ballarpur Assembly constituency in Chandrapur, said that the state government has accepted its failure to curb illegal activities. “The government has cited the rise in the crime rate as its reason. If the state cannot stop the sale of illicit liquor and the related crimes, then how come they stop illegal dance bars, sand mafia, Maoists and terror activities,” said Mungantiwar.The demand for banning liquor in Chandrapur was made in late 2010. Of the 847 gram panchayats in Chandrapur, 588 had demanded prohibition. Around 5,000 working women went on a 130km-long march from Chimur to Nagpur during the winter session in 2010 demanding the ban on alcohol. Following this, a committee was set up, which recommended the ban in the interest of health of the residents of the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/maharashtra-lifts-ban-on-liquor-sale-in-chandrapur-district-101622142901381.html
28-05-2021||Other||467K patients with Covid-19, respiratory infections screened for TB in Maharashtra||As tuberculosis (TB) and Covid-19 share similar symptoms, the state health department between October 2020 and April 2021 screened as many as 467,032 patients with novel coronavirus, influenza-like illness (ILI) and severe acute respiratory infections (SARI) for TB. Of these, 5,264 patients were diagnosed with TB, and 96% of them were put on treatment.During the same period, 58,554 TB patients were tested for Covid-19, of which 571 (1%) of were diagnosed with Covid-19. As per the World Health Organization (WHO), TB and Covid-19 are both infectious diseases that primarily attack the lungs and have similar symptoms such as cough, fever and difficulty in breathing.Last October, the central health department issued guidelines on ‘Bi-directional TB-Covid-19 screening and screening of TB among ILI and SARI cases’. Following this, all hospitals were instructed to test symptomatic patients with ILI, SARI and Covid-19 for TB. “Since the beginning of the pandemic, the number of TB cases has gone down. In order to overrule any possibility of misdiagnosis or underreporting of TB cases, the Central government gave the instruction. If any patient goes unreported, they can spread the bacteria to many others,” said Dr Shilpa Jichkar, TB officer, Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC).According to the guidelines issued by the Centre, Covid-19 patients are instructed to be tested for TB if they have some specific symptoms — cough and persistent fever for more than two weeks, significant weight loss and night sweats. Other than running sputum tests, hospitals can conduct X-rays and cartridge-based nucleic acid amplification test (CBNAAT).“Most of these co-infection cases have been identified in new TB patients. They approached hospitals considering they have Covid-19. But when their CT scan report showed different forms of clouding in lungs, their sputum culture confirmed that they were also carrying the bacteria of TB,” said Dr Lalit Anande, a TB specialist. Both these infections affect people with lower immunity,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/467k-patients-with-covid-19-respiratory-infections-screened-for-tb-in-maharashtra-101622142781279.html
28-05-2021||Other||41% fewer TB cases reported in April in Maharashtra amid second Covid-19 wave||The second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic has once again hit tuberculosis (TB) treatment in the state. Data from the state health department shows that TB cases plunged by 41% in April as compared to those recorded in January. Health activists said that amid the pandemic, many cases remain undiagnosed or are not treated or appropriately notified on diagnosis.TB is an infection caused by a bacterium called Mycobacterium Tuberculosis and spreads through air to another person when an infected person coughs, sneezes or laughs. In January, with the flattening of the pandemic curve, the number of TB notifications stood at 16,969. But with the start of the second wave in mid-February, the cases started to dive gradually. The total notification decreased to 15,610 in February, which further dropped to 15,436 in March. In April, when the state was clocking a daily surge in Covid-19 cases, individuals diagnosed with TB dropped to 10,036.“We are aware of the sizeable drop in the notification of TB cases. We have tied up with Asha (Accredited Social Health Activist) workers who are reaching out to patients in rural parts of the state. We have also engaged with private set ups to follow-up on patients. This has helped reduce the dropout rate of patients compared to last year,” said Dr Archana Patil, director, Directorate of Health Services. The decline in cases is seen at the out-patient department (OPD) of civic and government-run hospitals. “TB patients with compromised lungs are the most susceptible to Covid-19 infection. In April, as the city started recording over 8,000 cases daily, many decided to stay indoors and delayed their follow-ups. A similar trend was observed last year,” Dr Ranjit Mankeshwar, dean, JJ Hospital said, adding, “In fact, many preferred going to nearby private hospitals for diagnosis or check-ups.”However, data shows that registration of TB cases at private health establishments has also declined between January and April. In January, 9,797 cases were recorded at private hospitals, which dropped to 9,110 in February, and then to 8,596 in March and 5,346 in April. “As compared to last year, we are witnessing a fall in the number of TB cases. I believe that the second wave of the pandemic has overshadowed the diagnosis this year,” said Dr Behram Pardiwala, head of medicine department and director of academics, Wockhardt Hospital, Mumbai Central.Many health activists fear that this trend would have a ripple effect on diagnosis in Maharashtra, which constitutes almost 9% of the total drug-sensitive TB patients in the country. In fact, as per data shared by the state health department, Maharashtra recorded 19% of the total MDR-TB cases in India in 2020.“TB is the biggest killer in the state, especially in Mumbai which has over 20 million population. While the situation was worst between May and July during the national lockdown last year, the numbers increased after easing of restrictions. But the second wave has slowed down the diagnosis once again,” said TB activist Ganesh Acharya. Before the outbreak of the pandemic in March 2020, the state used to record around 20,000 cases on an average every month. But thereafter in April, the notification dropped from 15,759 to 8,915 in the state. In May, it increased to 9,164, and then to 10,914 in the following month. In July, it dropped to 10,583, which plunged further to 9,531 the next month. However, since September 2020, with the relaxation of the lockdown, the number of notifications of TB patients started increasing gradually. In September, 11,538 cases were recorded, which rose to 13,095 in October, 13,322 in November and 20,212 in December.Despite the gradual surge in the registration of cases, the overall registration of TB cases has fallen by 29.5% in 2020 as compared to 2019, when a total of 227,000 cases were recorded. In 2020, 160,000 cases were recorded, which is the lowest in the past four years. (See box). In 2021, till April, only 59,000 cases have been recorded. “The most major side-effect of the pandemic was that people avoided visiting hospitals even when they needed to. We are seeing several patients with advanced diseases because they refrained from the necessary diagnostic evaluation,” said Dr Harshad Limaye, senior consultant, Internal Medicine at Nanavati Hospital.However, state TB officer Dr Adkekar said that Maharashtra would soon be able to revive the anti-TB programme to pre-Covid-19 levels and achieve the goal of a TB-free Maharashtra by 2025.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/41-fewer-tb-cases-reported-in-april-in-maharashtra-amid-second-covid-19-wave-101622142661342.html
28-05-2021||Other||Barge P305 SAR op on Mumbai High was toughest in recent times, say Navy teams||On May 17, the Indian Navy received a distress call from ONGC’s (Oil and Natural Gas Corporation Limited) barge P305, which informed that its moorings had snapped under the intense weather conditions created by Cyclone Tauktae, and that it was adrift in the Arabian Sea with 261 crew members on board. The navy was quick to respond to the distress call and launched INS Kochi, a Kolkata-class guided missile destroyer, to conduct search and rescue (SAR) operations at Bombay High.But it was not long before the Navy received another distress call from another barge, Gal Constructor, which too saw its moorings break, leaving it adrift in the sea. The Navy moved INS Kolkata to respond to the situation.By the time INS Kochi reached the vicinity of P305, it was clear that the barge was taken by the water. The barge, which was being tossed and turned by the strong currents in the Arabian Sea, had hit a close-by rig which that punctured its hull. With the wind speed exceeding 110 kilometres per hour and the drift of the ocean moving towards the north, the barge was being carried further away from the oil fields, with INS Kochi monitoring the situation closely. By sunset, the barge was beginning to sink, and as the night had set in, the barge sank at 7pm. But INS Kochi had moved in close enough to carry out the SAR operation.“The warship’s speed is usually from 25-30 nautical miles per hour, but due to the stormy conditions, she was sailing at around 5-10 nautical miles per hour and for some distance, the speed went up to 15-18 nautical miles. We took more than five hours to reach near the site. We saw many survivors floating in the water in life jackets, but the wind was around 150km per hour and the height of the waves was around 10m. In this situation, controlling the ship at one place, sending divers, using scramble nets to pull out people from waves in zero visibility were very difficult or impossible,” said lieutenant commander Siddharth Chauhan, who was a part of the SAR team on INS Kochi.“So, the situation was assessed looking at the water current and wind direction, and teams were prepared accordingly with senior and junior officers and divers. The operation started at 8pm on May 17. We were using high-intensity searchlight, flares and LRAD speaker for announcement – which has a range of 1km – to find the survivors as they were drifting around 6 nautical miles per hour due to high waves and wind towards north, from the site where they jumped from the barge,” added lieutenant commander Chauhan.Accordingly, the ship captain, with the proper coordination with bridge crew members and saving teams on the deck, moved towards survivors and started rescuing them after maintaining the ship at a place. Within two-three hours, 36 people who were drifting around 10-12 nautical miles were first rescued. The scramble net was thrown into the sea and survivors were asked to hold the net. There was a group of 10 to 12 crew members standing on deck holding net ropes. Once one group of five to 10 people held the net, they pulled it up to the deck.Another group of 10-12 survivors were found about 30 nautical miles away from the barge at 2am on May 18. “After rescuing them, we increased our operation area and observed the wave and a third group of 40-43 people were found around 40 nautical miles away. They were picked up on the net in small groups and few were rescued by divers. We managed to rescue a total 124 people on INS Kochi till noon,” said lieutenant commander Akhilesh Sharma who was also on INS Kochi.The sea status was observed and checks and balances were made at every location where ships were operating and divers were rescuing people. “During SAR, first we have to ensure that there is no damage from our side. A team noted down the details of the survivors so that messages could be delivered to the people concerned. After rescuing them, we got a satisfaction that kept motivating us during the SAR operation, and none of us realised about the sea sickness developed due to the continuous work,” said lieutenant commander Sharma. The rescued people were in trauma, some of them suffered from moderate hypothermia and few had minor injuries. “Few also started to cry after reaching on the deck but were counselled by the other teams who were working with us with medical equipment, stretcher, clothes and food,” added lieutenant commander Chauhan. Master chief petty officer (MCPO) Mahavir Prasad, who was a seamanship instructor on INS Kolkata, said, “The waves were landing on the deck and due to high wind we could not dare to stand on it. There was zero visibility. First, our ship went to save the members of barge Gal Constructor which was carrying 137 people on board and was around about 48 nautical miles north of Colaba point. But there were an emergency towing vessel Water Lily, two support vessels and CGS Samrat in the vicinity for assistance and evacuation of the crew. So our ship was diverted for SAR P305. While we were on the way, we saw two people on a life raft. We picked them up a little before sunset and they informed us that they were on a tug boat named Varaprada. We reached late at night to the site where P305 had sunk but could not start the rescue operation due to darkness and the rough sea. The next day on May 18, we found five survivors till noon.” The survivors said that they did not have the strength even to hold a net as they were in the water for more than 12 hours. Six divers were inside the water who recovered nine dead bodies. “Sometimes, the bodies drift away with waves and we again put efforts to catch them and tie them with a rope so that another team could pull them up on deck,” said Anil Singh, a marine commando who was on INS Kolkata.There were around 60 divers working on both the ships INS Kolkata and INS Kochi. “This is the first time that we had rescued people and recovered bodies in such extreme weather conditions. It was horrific. People were lying on the sea in life jackets. We swam towards life jackets hoping that they might be alive but weren’t raising hands as they would have been tired. But after reaching there, we found them dead,” said another diver, Amit. HelicoptersSeaking 42 Bravo helicopter left from INS Shikra for the SAR operation early on May 18. Soon after, another helicopter – Seaking 42 Charlie – also flew to rescue the 137 members on board Gal Constructor. “Two pilots and two divers were in the team when we flew for Gal Constructor. The wind was more than 100km per hour. I held my helicopter at around 50 feet in air over the Gal Constructor site. It was a very dangerous and tough situation amid the high wind speed of around 150km per hour. Several wires of the crane on the barge were broken and hanging. The divers landed on the barge holding a rescue strap which used to tie crew members. Later, they were pulled up to the helicopter,” said lieutenant commander Raghvendra Kumar Dixit, who was on Seaking 42 Charlie.“We have never seen such a situation in the past. We rescued 25 people in one round and brought them to INS Shikra. Another helicopter rescued 14 more people while the rest were lifted by Coast Guard’s helicopters, lieutenant commander Dixit added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/barge-p305-sar-op-on-mumbai-high-was-toughest-in-recent-times-say-navy-teams-101622142601258.html
28-05-2021||Other||Elgar Parishad case: Bombay HC extends prof Hany Babu’s stay in private hospital till June 1||The Bombay high court (HC) on Thursday has directed Breach Candy hospital to seek its permission before discharging Delhi University associate professor Hany Babu, an accused in the Elgar Parishad -Bhima Koregaon violence cases. Hany was admitted following an order of the court on May 19 for treatment, after he had developed a severe infection in his left eye.The court, while restraining the hospital from discharging Babu till June 1, has also asked it to furnish a medical report on the status of the infection and the treatment administered to the professor. The vacation bench of justice SS Shinde and justice NR Borkar was hearing a petition seeking interim bail for Babu on medical grounds. Advocate Yug Choudhary, the counsel for the professor, informed the court that an urgent hearing was sought in the petition filed by Babu’s wife Jenny Rowena to ensure that Breach Candy hospital did not discharge her husband and send him back to Taloja jail on the grounds that he did not require critical care anymore. In the earlier hearing on May 19, Choudhary had submitted that Babu had contracted the eye infection, and though he had complained about it to the prison authorities from May 3- 12, it was not heeded. It was only after Babu tested positive for Covid-19 and shifted to GT Hospital did Rowena approach HC, as the hospital had said that it did not have the wherewithal to treat the professor’s eye infection. While the state had proposed to shift Babu to Sir JJ Hospital for treatment, Choudhary had submitted that due to the severity of the infection, there was an apprehension that he could lose vision in the left eye, and hence sought permission to shift him to a private hospital for treatment. The court had permitted shifting Babu to Breach Candy Hospital on an undertaking by his family that they would foot the expense for the treatment. On Wednesday when the court sought to know whether Babu’s eye infection was a case of mucormycosis, Choudhary submitted that the hospital had not informed the family about it. Observing that mucormycosis was dangerous and that there was a need to know whether Babu was getting proper treatment, the bench directed the hospital to submit a report on the treatment administered to him since his admission as well as on his current health condition. “The hospital shall submit an interim report on the medical treatment been given to Hany Babu by June 1. Till then, the hospital is requested not to discharge him. If they do then, this court should be informed and permission should be taken.” The bench also sought to know that if the private hospital had received the injections to treat mucormycosis, as they were being provided only at civic and state-run hospitalsThe petition will be heard next on June 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/elgar-parishad-case-bombay-hc-extends-prof-hany-babu-s-stay-in-private-hospital-till-june-1-101622142361916.html
28-05-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka tweaks Electric Vehicle policy to attract investment||Two key amendments to the Karnataka Electric Vehicle and Energy Storage Policy were approved by the state cabinet on Thursday to attract more investments, home minister Basavraj Bommai said.The cabinet decided to give 15% capital subsidy to investors in the electric vehicle (EV) sector on value of fixed assets over five equal annual payments, with maximum land covered under this incentive being 50 acres.“In 2017 itself there was a policy, but it needed some amendments. Since there is a lot of competition, some companies have gone to other states...to give more concessions,” Bommai said on Thursday, in an apparent reference to cab aggregators Ola, which decided to set up ₹2,400 crore EV manufacturing facility near Hosur in Tamil Nadu, despite being a Bengaluru-headquartered company.Bommai said Karnataka will offer incentives “at par with Tamil Nadu”.The second incentive is a production linked subsidy of 1% on turnover, which will be provided for a period of five years starting from the first year of commercial operations for large, mega, ultra, super mega EV assembly and manufacturing units, according to the cabinet decision.“A technical committee will be constituted to define/certify EV components including EV lithium-ion battery suppliers to EV manufacturing enterprises etc. claiming incentives and concessions under the new policy,” the government said.The amendments also include a clause to encourage in-plant training provided by the EV manufacturers in the state by offering a stipend up to 50% of the cost of training subject to a limit of ₹10,000 per month per trainee.Karnataka has also set aside around 400 acres to set up an EV park near Bidadi, near Bengaluru.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/karnataka-tweaks-ev-policy-to-attract-investment-101622142001614.html
28-05-2021||Other||Replacing BSY may change political discourse: Experts||Bengaluru As the clamour against Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa grows louder, it remains to be seen if it does actually materialise in a leadership change in the state before the 2023 assembly elections. According to analysts and experts, if the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) at the Centre does manage to replace 78-year-old Yediyurappa, it will bring about a major shift in Karnataka’s political discourse, which thrives on caste equations, coalition building and other local factors that have allowed the likes of Yediyurappa, Siddaramaiah, HD Deve Gowda and HD Kumaraswamy prevail with their signature style of politics for the last two decades, if not longer. The BJP at the Centre is trying to achieve a smooth shift in power, which, analysts and experts believe, would not be easy. An expert said Yediyurappa in 2013 assembly elections had shown that he could sabotage the saffron outfit’s chances. After Yediyurappa’s departure, the BJP’s tally in the state had reduced to 40 in 2013 from 110 in 2008 assembly elections for 224-seat House, when Yediyurappa led the party. According to experts, Yediyurappa, Siddaramaiah and Kumaraswamy have effectively curbed the cropping up of any new faces as possible ‘heirs’ or ‘replacements’ in their respective parties. They firmly held the reins of their parties while creating a dearth of alternatives, experts said. Interestingly, unlike neighbouring Tamil Nadu, where the two late chief ministers and stalwarts – J Jayalalithaa and MK Karunanidhi – shared strong animosities, the top leaders in Karnataka – Yediyurappa, Siddaramaiah and Kumaraswamy – seem to get along fine irrespective of the parties they represent. CP Yogeshwara, Karnataka’s minister for tourism, ecology and environment, on Thursday said, “The day I became an MLC (member of legislative council) I also said it does not appear as a pure BJP government. It appears to be a three-party government that is taking shape.” His statement points at how the three leaders from three different parties continue to enjoy a good rapport, irrespective of who is in power – an allegation made by several other legislators and leaders within the BJP. BJP legislators, especially those who identify dearly with the party’s ideology, have made similar allegations that opposition MLAs have it much easier in the current dispensation, including getting funds released and work for their respective constituencies. “We would have been better off if we were not from the ruling party,” a first-time MLA told HT in a recent interaction. In 2013, many believed that Yediyurappa helped in fulfilling Siddaramaiah’s aspirations to become the chief minister by orchestrating the defeat of G Parameshwara of the Congress, a political analyst, who did not wish to be named, said. Unlike the current central dispensation led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Karnataka’s political culture has largely relied on local equations. “In Karnataka, it has become politics of extreme decentralisation,” said a Bengaluru-based political analyst, demonstrating how every legislator wields influence over their respective constituencies, irrespective of the party symbol they fight under. The analyst, requesting not to be named, did not rule out the possibility that the current dissent could well be an effort to deflect the attention away from the management – or the lack of it – of the Covid-19 pandemic in Karnataka. The 17 turncoats who helped Yediyurappa to power in 2019 are not known to have any strong connection with the BJP’s ideology, party insiders said, adding that there was enough room for them to return to their parent outfits with the confidence of retaining their constituencies. Karnataka over the years has shuffled between Lingayats and Vokkaligas, the two most dominant caste groups in the state, for the top post. Projecting Pralhad Joshi, a Brahmin, as a possible alternative, analysts said, was indicative that the BJP was trying to consolidate its vote bank using the Hindutva card and not pandering to any particular community. “The BJP is known to spring surprises,” said a north Karnataka-based political analyst, requesting anonymity. He referred to the high command’s apparent ignoring of Yediyurappa’s recommendations for the nominations to Rajya Sabha and the state legislative council. “When the leadership is dominant, political parties tend to forget their relationship with others,” the analyst said, referring to the central leadership of the BJP. The BJP is known to have strong ties with the Janata Dal (Secular) in Old Mysuru region where the former helps the latter to keep the Congress, which the two sides believe to be the common enemy, at bay. The JD(S), led by Gowda and former CM Kumaraswamy, has allied with both the Congress and the BJP in the past and is the only major player in the state with the ability to reign over the other despite not measuring up in terms of numbers. A Narayana, political analyst and faculty at Azim Premji University, said it all depends on who the BJP chooses next. “If they (BJP central leadership) choose a Lingayat leader, the kind of coalition that Yediyurappa has had so far, it is possible for the new leader to build as well depending on how the new person communicates with this constituency (Lingayats). It is not an impossible task, but it depends on whom they choose,” he said. Meanwhile, Yogeshwara flanked by another BJP legislator Arvind Bellad visited New Delhi on Tuesday, fuelling speculations that the two had tried to meet central leaders to complain against the chief minister’s handling of the Covid-19 pandemic. The two leaders might not have the stature to prompt a change in leadership but, according to analysts, their act to reach out to Delhi is being interpreted as a sign of growing dissent within the BJP in Karnataka.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/replacing-bsy-may-change-political-discourse-experts-101622141881087.html
28-05-2021||Other||HC seeks govt reply on oxygen supply issues||Bengaluru: The Karnataka high court on Thursday asked the state government to file an affidavit by Monday on the difficulties in securing oxygen from outside the state. The bench of Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Aravind Kumar gave the direction while hearing the petition on the state’s preparedness to battle Covid-19. The HC also asked the government to make its stand clear on whether it is willing to pass an order restraining private hospitals from administering the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine. While hearing the matter on oxygen supply, the bench asked the state how it plans to procure the 1,200 metric tonnes of oxygen allotted by the government. “Out of 1200 metric tonnes allocation, 370 metric tonnes are allocated from places outside state. From the figures given it is apparent that except for May 27, the state has not received the entire quota allotted,” said the bench. We, therefore, direct the state to file an affidavit by Monday, setting out the difficulty if any for securing the quota of oxygen from outside the state. If the state is facing any difficulty it should approach the Centre immediately,” the bench added. It added that the state should answer three pertinent questions - whether you are able to procure oxygen from other states, in the wake of the third wave has the state fixed the buffer capacity for oxygen and whether the storage capacity for oxygen has been fixed. The high court asked the state government to make its stand clear on whether it is willing to pass an order restraining private hospitals from administering the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine. Continuing the hearing on the vaccine supply, the bench passed an order saying 50% of vaccines will be provided by the Centre to state for free, while out of the remaining 50%, the state can place orders for 25% directly and they can be supplied free of cost. The remaining 25% is for private players to book directly from suppliers or manufacturers, said the bench. “Considering the requirement on the second dose, the quantity which state will have on June 1 will be barely sufficient to meet the requirement of the second dose,” said the bench. Hearing the matter on Wednesday, the bench had asked the advocate-general to look into the matter after the Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association (Phana) informed the court that they are giving the vaccine to all those who are registering on their portal. The court was also informed the central government that 16,66,000 doses have been given to private hospitals in Karnataka. The court wondered how private hospitals can be allowed to procure more vaccines than the state government, which has placed orders for 15,98,000 doses. The bench said both the state and central governments have to take a policy decision on diverting people to private hospitals for getting the first dose. Phana said the state government can regulate the situation by passing an order against administering the first dose, instead of issuing an advisory, as has been done now. The high court had said it is an obligation of governments to ensure the second dose is provided and failure to do so will be a violation of fundamental rights. The court was told that there is a huge demand for vaccines in private hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hc-seeks-govt-reply-on-oxygen-supply-issues-101622141821079.html
28-05-2021||Other||Petrol prices cross ₹100-mark in Thane and Navi Mumbai||The price of petrol crossed the ₹100-mark in Thane and Navi Mumbai on Thursday, even as it is on the brink of touching the three-digit figure in Mumbai. At Thane, one litre of petrol was available for ₹100.06, while in Navi Mumbai, it was priced at ₹100.03. The cost of one litre of diesel was ₹91.99 and ₹92.07 in Thane and Navi Mumbai. In Mumbai, petrol price had reached an all-time high of ₹99.94, while one litre of diesel was available at ₹91.87. This was a surge by 23 paise and 30 paise, respectively, as petrol and diesel were priced at ₹99.71 and ₹91.57, respectively, in the city on Wednesday. Expressing financial constraints, citizens have urged the government to lower taxes on petroleum products. “I travel on my two-wheeler almost everyday. The fuel prices have been increasing constantly throughout this month. It looks as if the government just does not care about the citizens. Train services are also suspended for the general public. Due to lockdown people are already burdened financially. What does one do?” said Byculla resident Aadi Jain. Ghatkopar resident Aarti Singh said, “There is a risk of contracting Covid-19 if I travel by bus as local trains are suspended. So I use my car frequently to commute. The constant increase in fuel prices is stretching people to the extreme. The government should immediately decrease the taxes on petrol and diesel.” Mobile cab aggregator drivers stated that with the increase in fuel prices, it is getting difficult to operate. “Fuel is becoming very expensive and it is getting difficult to survive in the market. We receive ₹5.40 for fuel per km, which is very less as compared to the constant hike in fuel prices,” said Vijay N, who works as a driver for app-based cabs. Transporters’ body said that the hike in fuel prices will lead to unemployment in the transport industry. “We have been regularly requesting the Centre and the state government to reduce the excise duty and value-added tax (VAT) on petroleum products. However, there has been no impact. This is open loot going by the government. The constant increase will lead to unemployment in the transport industry as people are already suffering due to the pandemic,” said Bal Malkit Singh, chairman, All India Motor Transport Congress. Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader and Maharashtra’s minority affairs minister Nawab Malik on Thursday criticised Prime Minister Narendra Modi over the hike in petrol and diesel prices. “In 2015, Pradhan Sevak said that ‘It’ll be good if with my luck, the prices of petrol decrease. In 2021, petrol has crossed ₹100. whose luck is it now? Unlucky public. #PetrolDieselPriceHike (sic),” tweeted Nawab Malik.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/petrol-prices-cross-100-mark-in-thane-and-navi-mumbai-101622141522328.html
28-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra to extend lockdown, but with some relaxations||Maharashtra recorded 21,273 new coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases on Thursday, even as the state government decided to extend the current lockdown, in view of the rapid rise in infections in more than a dozen districts. The state, however, will provide a few relaxations — it may extend the restricted time limit of four hours for buying essential commodities and may also allow opening of shops that will become essential during the monsoon. The decision is likely to be taken in the next two days, officials said. The current state-wide lockdown, which was imposed on April 22, is ending on June 1 at 7am. The issue of extending the lockdown was discussed in the state cabinet meeting held on Thursday. Currently, citizens of the sate can’t step out unless they need medical attention, or are working in an essential sector, or want to buy essential commodities. That too within restricted timings — between 7am and 11am. State health minister Rajesh Tope said there was no chance of lifting the lockdown as there are many districts where cases are on the rise. The state government can provide some relaxation in the restrictions, which will be decided by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray after having deliberations with the state task force, he added. A statement issued by the chief minister office (CMO) stated, “Though the positivity rate of the state is coming down, 10 to15 districts are reporting rapid growth in Covid-19 cases. There is also a rise in cases of mucormycosis. Active cases of the state have dropped to the tally of highest cases recorded during the first wave. But we still need to be careful. Instead of completely lifting the lockdown, we will have to extend it from June 1 and also provide relaxations in the restrictions wherever necessary. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray directed the state administration to take steps accordingly after discussing the same in the state cabinet meeting held on Thursday.” “The positivity rate of 21 districts is higher than the average positivity rate of the state. It means they have more patients, which also means their beds occupancy is higher than others and both are part of the two major norms being considered before imposing lockdown. This means lockdown cannot be lifted completely. It has to be continued but with some relaxation. We may provide more time for buying essentials and allowing a few types of shops to function in the same limited period along with the establishments related to essential commodities,”Tope said. “The detailed discussion on relaxation could not be held today. The chief minister will also have deliberations with the state task force and take a decision in the next two days,” he added. The weekly average positivity rate of Maharashtra is 0.47 percent. The districts with high weekly average positivity rate include Sindhudurga, Ratnagiri, Kolhapur, Buldhana, Satara, Sangli, Osmanabad, Amravati and Beed. “Going by today’s situation, it is very difficult for the state to significantly ease down restrictions. The Chief minister is also not very comfortable with the idea. Thus, ‘Mission Begin Again’ is likely to start from June 1, but to a very limited extent. We may extend restricted timings of four to six or seven hours for the people to step out for buying essentials and may also allow shops that become essential during the rainy season,” said a senior official privy to the development. Dr Amin Kaba, who is associated with various top hospitals in Mumbai, said the Government is the best decider in these matters. “This the decision best left to the Government as they are very well aware of the ground realities. At the same time, the vaccination drive should be sped up as this will have a big impact in lowering the cases as well as the death rate,” said Dr Kaba. There were 21,273 new cases on Thursday with the total number of cases reaching to 5,672,180 since the outbreak of the virus last year. There were 2,61,151 tests conducted on Thursday. There are currently 301,041 active patients across the state, of which Pune tops with 43,869 patients, followed by Mumbai with 28,683 active patients. The death toll has now reached 92,225 with Mumbai leading with 14,720 deaths, followed by Pune with 12,112.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-to-extend-lockdown-but-with-some-relaxations-101622141222422.html
28-05-2021||Other||Yaas effect: Pleasant weather, cool breeze in Prayagraj||: A week after witnessing moderate to heavy showers because of tropical cyclone Tauktae, Sangam city witnessed overcast conditions and slight drizzle on Thursday, this time because of tropical cyclone Yaas which originated in the Bay of Bengal. A heavy cloud cover brought down the mercury making the weather pleasant for the whole day. The maximum temperature on Thursday was 29.8 degree Celsius, over six degrees less than Wednesday, which recorded the maximum of 35.6 degree Celsius. The minimum temperature too came down but just by a degree as compared to Wednesday’s temperature which was 26.4 degrees. On Thursday it was 25.1 degrees Celsius. Prof HN Mishra, emeritus professor at AU’s department of Geography said, “The change in weather is because of the cyclone Yaas and this would continue for next 24 hours. The city would again witness clear weather from Saturday onwards”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/yaas-effect-pleasant-weather-cool-breeze-in-prayagraj-101622141040801.html
28-05-2021||Other||Man arrested for killing wife, throwing 3 kids in canal||: A man was arrested on Wednesday for throwing his three children in Ganga canal after murdering his wife in village Baseri under Purkajib police station of district Muzaffarnagar, police said. After committing the gruesome crime on Tuesday, the accused, identified as Pappu, 34, had fled to neighbouring Laksar town of Uttarakhand from where police arrested him. Senior superintendent of police (SSP), Muzaffarnagar Abhishek Yadav said during interrogation Pappu said he committed the crime for he suspected his wife, Dolly, 29, of having illicit relations and for refusing to have physical relations with him. “He said he shot his wife on the head as she denied physical relations with him which led him to believe that the woman was having illicit relations,” SSP said. The divers have fished out the body of one child so far, said superintendent of police (SP) Muzaffarnagar, Vijayvargiya. “PAC divers found body of one child in the deep waters of canal and search was underway to recover two more children,” the SP said. Police said the three kids included a five-year-old, another 3 years old and an 18-month-old child. During interrogation, the accused told officials that he threw kids as he knew there was none to take care of them. “He said he was worried as to who would take care of them after he is arrested,” police said. A case of murder has been registered against Pappu in Purkaji police station on the complaint of a family member. Dolly was Pappu’s elder brother’s wife whom he had married after the death of his elder brother 10 years ago. The couple had two daughters and a son.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/man-arrested-for-killing-wife-throwing-3-kids-in-canal-101622140921512.html
28-05-2021||Other||UP govt making all-out effort to curb Covid: Health minister||Expressing his concern over new Covid variants, UP health minister JP Singh on Thursday said the state government was making all efforts to control the pandemic. Singh expressed these views at a webinar organised by the PHD Chamber of Commerce and Industry. “The state government is making an all-out effort to check the spread of the pandemic. In March last year, the Covid testing capacity of the state was only 70 cases a day. It has now increased to over 3.59 lakh a day,” the minister added.“The virus is mutating into new variants and affecting several parts of the body. The gram nigrani samitis (monitoring committees) in 97,000 villages across the state are moving from house-to-house to check spread of the virus,” Singh said. Speaking on the occasion, Dr Mayank Somani, MD and CEO, Apollomedics Super Speciality Hospital, gave suggestions on how we can prepare for the third wave of the pandemic. “We require adequate medicine and oxygen, adequate equipment and infrastructure, surplus isolation centres, pandemic support centres and a robust primary healthcare system,” he said. “We need to augment testing and diagnostic facilities beforehand, training of paramedics, robust supply chain, skilled manpower. These must be more research and development in medical field and focus of vaccination and treatment in situations like the current pandemic,” Dr Somani said. Dr Rakesh Kapoor, director, Medanta Hospital, Lucknow, said: “Imparting training to people is very crucial as it will train general people to handle emergencies like putting oxygen cylinders and operating oxygen Concentrators among other medical equipment.” Lalit Khaitan, chairman, UP chapter of PHD Chamber, suggested that primary health care system must be recognised as a vital contributor to all aspects of emergencies. Sanjay Agarwal, president, PHD Chamber, Patrick Linnenbank, Barnik Mitra and Mukesh Bahadur among others also expressed their views at the webinar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/up-govt-making-all-out-effort-to-curb-covid-health-minister-101622140920831.html
28-05-2021||Noida||Greater Noida extends deadline to apply for affordable flat scheme||GREATER NOIDA: The Greater Noida authority said Thursday it has extended the deadline to apply for its affordable apartment scheme in sectors 1, 2 and 3 in Greater Noida West till June 25. The previous deadline to apply for this scheme was April 10. The process had been put on hold, however, due to the partial curfew owing to Covid-19.Officials said people can via the authority’s website: greaternoidaauthority.com, along with a draft of ₹5,000.“Once we have all details of people who want to buy flats under this scheme we will finish formalities and start construction,” said Deep Chand, additional chief executive officer of the authority.Under this scheme, the authority will build the 10,000 units with support from private developers. To make the project economically viable, the authority will allow the developers to use 10% of the total project for commercial purposes. After applications are in, a verification done by a district-level agency will verify if the applicant belongs to the economically weaker section (EWS) category or not. “After verification we will decide on further progress on the scheme, to be launched on public-private-partnership,” Chand said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/greater-noida-extends-deadline-to-apply-for-affordable-flat-scheme-101622140802397.html
28-05-2021||Mumbai||Six arrested for killing social worker at Mankhurd||Shivaji Nagar police arrested six people for allegedly killing a 35-year-old social worker from Mankhurd.The incident took place in the wee hours of Thursday. Police said they received a call from locals that a man, identified as Sohail Sayyed alias Imran Ajmer, was lying in a pool of blood. Upon reaching the spot at 5am on Thursday, the police found Sayyed with a stab wound to his chest. The police took him to the hospital, where he was declared dead.“Initially, we registered a case of murder against unidentified people as the lynching was done by more than one person,” said Kishore Gaike, senior police inspector of Shivaji Nagar.The police then checked the mobile phone of the deceased, from where they got the number of Samad Shaikh and learnt that the victim was consuming alcohol with Shaikh till late on Wednesday.On questioning Shaikh, police found out that while drinking, Shaikh called up his friend Shehnaaz who reached there with her friend Kaleem alias Kaynaat, a transgender person. Sayyed noted down Kaynaat’s phone number before Kaynaat left with Shehnaaz.Shaikh told the police that at around 4am Sayyed called up Kaynaat and used obscene words. Kaynaat got offended and complained about him to relatives and friends, including Shehnaaz, her husband Irfan, son Aavesh and daughter Afreen and a neighbour Aashu.“An angry Kaynaat then reached the spot along with her friends and relatives to confront the deceased, leading to a fight between the victim and the other six,” said Gaike.When the deceased refused to apologise to Kaynaat for the language that he used, the six began to beat him. Aashu removed a knife from his pocket and stabbed the deceased in his chest.“After injuring Sayyed, the six fled the spot,” said Gaike.The police on Thursday afternoon detained the six, including Kaynaat, for questioning. “We are in the process of arresting them for the murder of Sayyed under section 302 of the Indian Penal Code,” added Gaike.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/six-arrested-for-killing-social-worker-at-mankhurd-101622140801386.html
28-05-2021||Other||Electric crematorium at Shringverpur, 6 other places at Prayagraj||Move after buried dead bodies along Ganga stoked controversy : Seven electric crematoriums, six within Prayagraj district’s municipal limits itself and the seventh at Shringverpur, have been sanctioned, officials confirmed.These would be in addition to the existing two electric crematoriums at Prayagraj and would help reduce pollution and cost of traditional cremation, officials said. Presently, Prayagraj has two electric crematoriums at Daraganj and at Teliyarganj.Of the seven new crematoriums, the one at Shringverpur, for which land too has been identified, is especially important as it is from here that images of dead bodies being buried along the banks of the Ganga had stoked controversy.The district administration had claimed that this was due to an old tradition practiced by locals living in the vicinity while opposition parties claimed it was due to locals, hit by the pandemic, being unable to afford cost of wood cremations.Officials said the practice of burying dead bodies is against the norms laid down by National Green Tribunal (NGT) and said the district administration has now decided to make the locals aware of the ill-effects of the practice. They said an electric crematorium at Shringverpur would help check the practice of burying bodies. A revenue department team has identified 4 biswa (around 500 square meters) of land at Shringverpur. A proposal is being prepared and the same would be sent to the District Magistrate on behalf of the Panchayati Raj department, officials said.The paperwork is being through SDM Soraon Anil Chaturvedi, officials aware of the move said. “We are preparing proposal for constructing an electric crematorium at Shringverpur and the same would be submitted in couple of days. Once the approval is granted, we would move ahead with the construction work,” said district panchayati raj officer (DPRO), Renu Srivastava. Decision at virtual meetingPRAYAGRAJ: The Prayagraj Municipal Corporation (PMC) held a virtual meeting last week in which it was initially decided to have four electric crematoriums within municipal limits. Later, two additional crematoriums, one at Phaphamau and another at Chatnag (Jhunsi), were included. Thus, six new electric crematoriums have been sanctioned for Prayagraj municipal limits.PNN officials have identified land for electric crematorium at Chatnag and land for electric crematorium near Kanhaipur cremation Ghat is also being located. PNN had earlier proposed crematoriums at Kanahiipur, Kerala Bagh, Arail and Mahewa. PNN PRO and chief tax officer, PK Mishra said, “PNN is working on the mission to get six additional electric crematoriums set up within the municipal limits and the land for one at Chatnag is nearly finalised.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/electric-crematorium-at-shringverpur-6-other-places-at-prayagraj-101622140800838.html
28-05-2021||Other||3rd wave of Covid-19: Child rights’ body inspects homes, reviews preparations||The Uttar Pradesh State Commission for Protection of Child Rights inspected shelter homes, reviewed preparations for the anticipated Covid-19 third wave, and held a meeting to enquire about the rehabilitation of Covid-19-affected children, on Thursday.“There is a dire need to lend a helping hand to Covid-19-affected children,” said Dr Vishesh Gupta, chairperson State Commission for Protection of Child Rights while addressing a meeting with the labour department, administrative and health officials.Gupta first enquired about the arrangements being made for the anticipated-third Covid-19 wave that is expected to affect children. Answering his query, officials of the health department highlighted the arrangements being made that includes the establishment of a 100-bed ward at the King George’s Medical University, a 40-bed post-Covid-19 ward at Balrampur Hospital and other arrangements of ventilators and other facilities. The officials assured that in all, 560 beds would be available which would be manned by 18 doctors from SGPGI and 25 resident super specialised doctors.Besides, the commission also enquired about the numbers of Covid-19-affected children. Officials said that there were around 75 children in the Lucknow division affected by Covid-19. However, they are being counselled through the DM helpline. The commission also directed the nigrani samities to be on the watch.Earlier, holding the meeting, members of the commission also inspected shelter homes. A home on Pragnarayan Road was the first to be inspected. The members also interacted with the inmates and checked other facilities, which they found satisfactory. Another shelter home in Motinagar, where 32 inmates recently tested Covid-19 positive, and others, were also inspected. However, no major anomalies were found.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/3rd-wave-of-covid-19-child-rights-body-inspects-homes-reviews-preparations-101622140742802.html
28-05-2021||Noida||Man fires outside Greater Noida clinic after being asked to wear mask||Noida: A 22-year-old man allegedly fired in the air outside a doctor’s clinic in Greater Noida on Thursday after the clinic staff tried to stop him from entering as he was not wearing a face mask. While the man is on the run, his friend who accompanied him during the incident has been arrested, police said. The suspects were identified as Parmeet, a resident of Phulpur village, and his friend Rahul Kashyap. According to the police officials, Parmeet had gone to see a doctor in Greater Noida’s Dadupur village under Jarcha police station. “Parmeet entered the clinic without a mask after which the clinic staff and the doctor asked him to wear a mask. This soon turned into a heated argument. Parmeet left the area and came an hour later with a pistol and his friend Rahul. He then used abusive language to intimidate the doctor and clinic workers, and fired a few rounds in the air outside the clinic. Police arrested Rahul while Parmeet is on the run. We are investigating the matter,” said Vishal Pandey, additional deputy commissioner of police, Greater Noida.The officials said that a case was registered against the suspects under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code at Jarcha police station. “We have registered an FIR and are interrogating Rahul for more details. We are looking for Parmeet and he will be arrested soon,” said Sripal Singh, station house officer, Jarcha police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/man-fires-outside-greater-noida-clinic-after-being-asked-to-wear-mask-101622140741389.html
28-05-2021||Mumbai||New Maharashtra policy gives push to electric vehicles||In a fillip to electric transportation in the state, the Maharashtra government on Thursday revealed its Electric Vehicles (EV) Policy 2021, as part of which electric vehicles are aimed to comprise 10% of all new vehicle registrations by 2025. The draft policy is currently awaiting a final nod from the state cabinet. The policy also aims substitute all government vehicles in major cities with EVs, starting April 2022, officials privy to the developments said.The details were revealed during a webinar organised by the state environment department’s Majhi Vasundhara Abhiyan along with Climate Voices — a consortium of three advocacy groups working pan-India, on Thursday.Ashish Kumar Singh, additional chief secretary (transport), Maharashtra, and head of the committee responsible for drafting the policy, said, “Today Maharashtra’s share of the country’s (electric) vehicle registrations is around 12% (32,000) but the size is still not large enough to excite manufacturers. We are keen on taking advantage of the schemes by the Government of India. Maharashtra is the leading manufacturer of internal combustion engines, and our EV Policy aims to make it a leading manufacturer of electric vehicles as well.”As per officials, the new policy has distinct goals for five major urban agglomerations in the state, including the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), Aurangabad, Pune, Nagpur, and Nashik. One of the major goals is to convert around 25% of the existing public transport infrastructure (and last-mile delivery vehicles) in these cities to fully electric mode by 2025. Another ambitious objective that the draft policy has proposed is conversion of 15% of Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation’s existing bus fleet (of 18,000 vehicles) to electric mode during the same time. “We also intend on providing full-scale EV infrastructure on four major arterial highways by 2025, namely Mumbai-Nagpur Expressway, Mumbai-Pune Express Highway, Mumbai-Nashik, and Nashik-Pune,” said Dr Avinash Dhakne, transport commissioner, Maharashtra. Additionally 1,500 EV charging stations in MMR, 500 in Pune, 150 in Nagpur, 100 in Nashik and 75 in Aurangabad have been proposed, he added.Incidentally, this is not the first EV transportation policy of the state. Maharashtra had earlier adopted an EV policy in February 2018 which was drafted by the state department of industries. “However, that policy had focused largely on attracting investment and providing incentives, which was not enough. We are aiming to rely on infrastructure creation which is the main catalyst for companies to enter the market,” Dhakne explained.In order to offset the ecological footprint of electric mobility — which requires large scale manufacture and use of lithium ion batteries — the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB), under the aegis of the environment department, is also developing a parallel policy of its own. “We are drafting rules on recycling lithium ion batteries and other electronic waste that is likely to be generated due to boom in EV infrastructure,” said Sudhir Srivastava, chairman, MPCB.Ashwin Mahesh, a city planning expert and founder of Project Lithium — hailed as India’s first zero emissions transport service which is headquatered in Bangalore, at Thursday’s webinar said, “At this early stage of development of EV sector, it is important for companies, that innovate early and correctly, to not only pursue their own success but also accept broader responsibility for the development of the ecosystem around them. Only this will ensure accelerated development of various possibilities within e-mobility.” Madhav Pai, director, WRI India Ross Centre for Sustainable Cities, who hosted Thursday’s expert panel, emphasised that Maharashtra needs to capitalise on this rare opportunity mostly through creation of domestic demand, and not just developing industrial capabilities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/new-maharashtra-policy-gives-push-to-electric-vehicles-101622140742129.html
28-05-2021||Noida||21-year-old sanitation worker dies while cleaning sewer in Greater Noida||Greater Noida: A 21-year old working as a sanitation employee, working under a private contractor of the Greater Noida authority, was killed Thursday after stepping into a sewer to clean it.According to officials, the victim, Krishna (identified by a single name), who lived in Gharbara village of Greater Noida, was sent inside a sewage line in Surajpur area allegedly without any gear or safety equipment.When Krishna didn’t respond for some time, a fire brigade was called to rescue him. A firefighter went down the sewer wearing breathing apparatus to retrieve the victim tied to a rope in a 40 minute-long operation. The victim was soon rushed to a nearby hospital where he was declared brought dead, the police said.“The sewer was very narrow and about 30 to 40 feet deep and it took around 40 minutes for our personnel to rescue the unconscious man, who seemed to have some life in him at that time. The victim was wearing no gear or safety equipment; he was wearing only shorts and a vest. He was rushed to the nearest hospital. There are poisonous gases in the sewer that make it very unsafe to work without any gear; even our personnel had to wear breathing apparatus before going in,” said Jitendra Kumar, fire station officer, Greater Noida.The police later registered an FIR under Section 304 of the IPC against Neeraj Bhati, the authority’s contractor and Jai Prakash, the site incharge.“The victim was soon rushed to a hospital where he was declared brought dead. He must have suffocated as they are poisonous gases, especially in summers, down the gutter. He was sent down to clean their line manually to reinstate the flow without any safety equipment. We have registered an FIR against the private contractor and the site in charge, and are waiting for the post-mortem report,” said Ajay Kumar, SHO, Surajpur.Manual scavenging - that accounts for manually cleaning sewers, septic tanks and others - is banned under the Prohibition of Employment as Manual Scavengers and Their Rehabilitation Act, 2013. Officials at the authority, meanwhile, said that they have ordered an enquiry into the matter.“We had earlier made it very clear that no worker would be sent down the pit without safety gear. We had also provided all protective gear and oxygen masks however, in this case, it seems the directions were violated. We have ordered an enquiry and it seems that a private contractor with the Greater Noida authority is responsible. The concerned official has filed an FIR. However, the act does not amount to manual scavenging,” said Narendra Bhooshan, CEO, Greater Noida authority. However, activists differed. “This is a clear case of manual scavenging. An act that accounts to anyone manually cleaning sewer or septic tank that has human excreta in it accounts for manual scavenging and is prohibited, but unfortunately there is very less awareness on it and it continues across India, including in the national capital,” said Bezwada Wilson, the national convener of Safai Karamchari Aandolan — a human rights organisation campaigning for eradication of manual scavenging. A total of 340 people had died due to cleaning sewers in the past five years till December 31, 2020 of which Uttar Pradesh, at 52, accounts for the highest number of deaths, Ramdas Athawale, the minister of state for social justice and empowerment, had informed the parliament in February 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/21yearold-sanitation-worker-dies-while-cleaning-sewer-in-greater-noida-101622140740790.html
28-05-2021||Noida||Covid fatality rate doubled in second wave in GB Nagar||NOIDA: On March 31 this year, the case fatality rate (CFR) of Gautam Budh Nagar was 0.34% with 91 deaths out of 26,100 Covid-19 cases. But the CFR has now gone up to 0.69% in nearly two months, with 343 deaths and 36,018 new cases till Thursday, according to data from the state health department.However, with 59,373 recoveries out of total 62,118 Covid-19 cases till Thursday, the recovery rate in the district has now gone to 95.44%, the data showed. GB Nagar district magistrate Suhas LY said that it was really a tough time after March as the number of deaths and new cases suddenly went up. “There was an ultimate crunch of oxygen and remdesivir for a day or two. We were also worried about ICU beds in the hospitals. But, we streamlined the entire thing soon. Now, the new cases are continuously going down. We want to reduce the number of deaths to a negligible level,” he said. On Thursday, GB Nagar reported 133 new Covid-19 cases, taking the tally of active cases to 2,310 in the district. It also recorded six deaths due to the viral infection, according to the state’s daily health bulletin.Claiming that the second wave of Covid-19 infection is coming under control, the DM also said that the district’s health infrastructure is being ramped up, with focus on children in order to deal with a possible third wave of the pandemic. “At present, our main focus is on rural areas. We’ve been carrying out a house-to-house survey of all villages and urban areas in the district. So far, we’ve tested 11,45,726 samples in the district, which is almost half of its population,” he said. Dr Deepak Ohri, GB Nagar chief medical officer, said that apart from conducting massive testing in different villages, the vaccination drive is also going in full swing in the district. “Till date, over 5.35 lakh people from different age groups have received their jabs in the district. Nearly one lakh of them have taken their second shot also,” he said. The CMO also said that 13 new vaccination centres, for the age group of 18 to 45 years, will start from Friday. “To get the vaccine, a beneficiary will have to be registered on Co-WIN app. After that, the slots will be allotted. The vaccination will take place from 10am to 5pm,” he said.On Thursday, the district had a total of 81 vaccination centres, the officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/covid-fatality-rate-doubled-in-second-wave-in-gb-nagar-101622140681506.html
28-05-2021||Noida||Non-Covid patients in Noida suffer from delayed treatments||Kaushambi resident Vijay Prakash Mathur, 77, was scheduled for a brain tumour removal surgery in April this year. But when three members of his family contracted Covid-19, it was postponed.It took a month for the family to recover from the viral disease, but by then, the tumour had grown.On May 21, Mathur became unresponsive and had to be admitted to an ICU with a ventilator.“Doctors now say the surgery is no longer an option. Had he been operated on in April itself, this wouldn’t have happened. Now, his survival chances are slim,” said Abhimanyu, his son.The pandemic, especially its second wave from April, has forced many non-Covid patients to postpone their treatment owing to the fear of catching the disease. CancerSome of these treatments include chemotherapy for cancer.“Patients do not want to step into a hospital. Yes, there are some cases where Covid cases in the family have also led to delaying of medical procedures. In such a situation, diseases such as cancer can progress after which the treatment and procedures become complicated,” said Dr Shubham Garg, senior consultant, surgical oncology at Fortis Hospital, Noida. The doctor consults 30-35 cancer patients every week. Dr. Arun Goel, senior director of oncology, Max Super Speciality Hospital in Vaishali, said that he advisedhis patients not to be afraid of coming to the hospital as the Covid wards were separate from the cancer wards. “I tell them that the risk of delaying procedure like a chemotherapy will be harmful. However for some patients, there was no other option as their caregivers got Covid-19 so they could come for their scheduled session,” he said. DialysisPatients who require a dialysis two to three times a week have also cut down on their visits. “Many of our patients are from other districts as well. But the lockdown has been a deterrent. If patients do not take dialysis on time, it can lead to several complications like heavy breathing, nausea, vomiting and lack of appetite,” said Dr Puneet Gupta, head of nephrology at Sharda Hospital, Greater Noida. He added that currently the hospital conducts dialysis for 200 patients a month and also has 50-60 Covid patients requiring dialysis.The curfew in Uttar Pradesh, in force from April 30, excludes patients who require critical care but the overarching fear of contracting the disease has overridden some of them. At Max Hospital, Dr Manoj K. Singhal, senior director of nephrology and kidney transplantation, recalls the case of one such patient. “He was 60 years old and required dialysis thrice a week as his kidneys had failed. He reduced it to one to two sessions a week against our advice. Within three weeks, his condition worsened, and he suddenly developed shortness of breath. As it was a peak Covid surge time, we could not arrange a bed for him in the emergency and he eventually passed away,” he said.The unprecedented rise in the number of Covid patients has overburdened city hospitals. Most government and private hospitals in GB Nagar have been converted to Covid facilities.“We are going ahead with the emergency surgeries but have asked patients seeking elective surgeries to delay. For some like dialysis, we are advising home-based setups, but a delay in critical cases like kidney ailment or cancer cases may lead to steady worsening of the condition or even death,” said Dr. Deepak Verma, Internal Medicine, Columbia Asia Hospital, Ghaziabad.Among babiesDr Dheeraj Sharma, associate professor (paediatric cardiac surgery at SSPHPGTI) said congenital heart disease require surgery within six months to a year of birth. “This golden period too has been missed,” he said. “Last year we were supposed to operate on 105 babies. But the pandemic and the lockdown got in the way of many. By November, when we contacted these families, it turned out that some of these children had passed away.”Even regular vaccinations have been affected.“Hepatitis B1, Hepatitis B2, Haemophilus Influenzae Type B vaccinations that are required to be given within a year of birth. Not giving these will expose the child to these diseases and severely affect them and shorten their lives,” said Dr DK Gupta, CMD, Felix Hospital, Noida .Blood donationsBlood banks ran dry during the period cutting off supply to hospitals that required them for emergency surgeries or for those patients who required routine blood transfusions.“Usually, blood banks have enough stock as people donate every now and then and we keep holding blood donation camps as well. Blood is required often for surgeries, for pregnant women and new-borns as well. Thalassemia, leukaemia and aplastic anaemia patients also require regular blood transfusions. We tried to help, but many times we had to ask the patients to arrange a blood donor from their family,” said Dr Satyam Arora, associate professor (transfusion medicine) at Superspeciality Paediatric Hospital & Postgraduate Teaching Institute (SSPHPGTI), Noida. He added that the hospital had over 100 thalassemia patients a month.HIVHIV patients have to get a monthly anti-retroviral therapy (ART) kit from their registered centres to keep their immunity up. Since the pandemic, these centres have been providing three months’ kits to their patients.“This is so that HIV patients do not have to come to the centre every month. As their immune system is compromised, they are more susceptible to the coronavirus,” said Dr Sheel Varma, medical officer at one such centre at MMG District Hospital, Ghaziabad.Home health care The fear has pushed people suffering from various ailments to opt for home health care services instead of going to hospitals for treatment.“We have seen a rise of 70% for homecare facilities such as tele-medicine, tele-consultation, X-ray, sample collection and physiotherapy. We have also seen an increasing trend of 40% enhanced demand of our home critical care services as many non-Covid patients wanted an ICU set up at home and treated there,” said Dr Shabnam Mir, Consultant Physician and Head of Clinical Services at Antara, a Max Group company specializing in senior care.District authorities, meanwhile, said patients need not worry. “Non-covid patients should not delay treatment over Covid worries. At hospitals that treat both Covid and non-Covid patients, separate arrangements like designated floors, entries and exits are made, so chances of contracting the virus are minimised,” said Dr Deepak Ohri, chief medical officer, GB Nagar||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noncovid-patients-in-noida-suffer-from-delayed-treatments-101622140680867.html
28-05-2021||Noida||Yoga, indoor games keep patients’ morale high at Covid centre in Noida Stadium||Noida: For Greater Noida west resident Satish Kaul (65), playing carrom in the evening with his friends at the Covid care facility in Noida Stadium is one of the highlights of his day. Kaul is one of the 13 patients who are admitted at the temporary 50-bed facility launched by the Noida authority on May 8.From starting their day with Yoga to ending it with games and TV, patients at this facility say they don’t miss home. The facility is run by 80 health care staff, including 23 doctors from Delhi-based NGO Doctors For You, who also hold motivational talks and counselling sessions for the patients.“I start my day here with Yoga and after resting through the day, I play indoor games like carrom, chess or ludo with the other patients, who have now become my friends. Not just the patients, but the staff also do not let us miss our home as they feel like family,” said Kaul, who used to work in the hospitality industry before retiring. He was admitted to the facility on May 11.He added that counselling and motivational talks have helped him keep a positive outlook towards life. “The doctors keep all patients mentally strong and keep telling us of cases where patients recovered; that makes us feel that we can fight this virus too,” said Kaul.The youngest patient at the facility is five-year-old Yashraj Mukherjee, who has become a favourite among all health care staff there.“Everyone here loves Yashraj and spends time playing with him whenever they are on their routine rounds. Yashraj is busy throughout the day playing carom, ludo or darts. He tested negative a few days back but since I and my husband are still recovering, all of us have to stay here longer as I do not have any one else back home to take care of him,” said his mother Sanchari Joydeep Mukherjee, a resident of Sector 46 who was admitted on May 11 with her husband and son.The 43-year-old was earlier admitted to the Noida Covid Hospital in Sector 39 on May 7 in the emergency wing and later her husband and son were admitted there as well. Once their condition stabilised, they were admitted to the facility on May 11.“When we came here, we were not in the right state of mind but the staff here has helped us keep our morale high. I was worried about my son but he stays entertained throughout the day playing games with other patients and staff. The kindness and empathy shown to all patients has made us realise that we can fight any battle with positive thinking,” she added.Since it was opened, the L1 facility has had 64 admissions of Covid patients. Currently the centre has 13 patients.“Twelve patients were discharged after recovering fully and testing negative while 17 others left on their own as their condition stabilised. We had to refer about 13 to other hospitals,” said Dr Rohini Wadhawan, in-charge of the facility.Unlike other illnesses, having Covid can make a patient feel lonely as they have to be insolation, and this can have an adverse effect on their mental well being, says Dr Wadhawan. “To ensure that this doesn’t happen, we offer video calling for patients so they can speak to their families. Though all of them have their phones with them, often older patients do not know how to video call so we arrange that for them. Seeing the faces of their family members after a long time brings them joy,” she said.The doctors also regularly update the family members of the patients admitted here on their condition and vitals, they added.All 50 beds at the facility are equipped with oxygen. However, only patients with oxygen levels above 75-80 are admitted here as it’s a L1 facility.“We try to keep a homely environment at the facility as patients panic when they find out they are positive. We hold motivational talks, physiotherapy sessions, yoga and indoor games for the patients so that they stay engaged. We tell them that they can defeat the virus by not just being physically strong but mentally as well,” said Dr Rajat Jain, president of Doctors For You.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/yoga-indoor-games-keep-patients-morale-high-at-covid-centre-in-noida-stadium-101622140621490.html
28-05-2021||Mumbai||Maratha reservation: BJP calls for protests; Congress warns of superspreaders||The Maratha reservation issue is likely to heat up the political atmosphere in the state again. In the middle of Covid pandemic, state Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) chief Chandrakant Patil on Thursday urged Marathas to take to the streets for reservation, as a Maratha outfit led by a BJP ally, is starting a march demanding reservation from June 5. On the other hand, the Congress said the Opposition party will be responsible, if the latter’s agitation becomes a Covid super-spreader event. The Congress also alleged there was BJP-Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) connection with an outfit that had filed petition against the reservation. Also, Sambhajiraje Chhatrapati, a descendant of King Shivaji and BJP MP, has taken an apolitical stand to galvanise support for Maratha reservation across party lines. He met Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar on Thursday and is expected to meet other leaders over the next two days. In response to a bunch of petitions, the Supreme Court on May 5 delivered a judgment scrapping the quota given to Maratha community in government jobs and education by the Maharashtra government. While the ruling Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government has said the ball is in the Centre’s court now, the BJP has blamed the three-party coalition, saying the latter failed to convince the apex court that Marathas needed reservation. Community outfits have warned of agitations if the quota is not restored by the government. State BJP president Chandrakant Patil said in Kolhapur on Thursday: “If Maratha community fails to get on the streets and stage agitations for reservation now, it will be late [to safeguard their rights]. Life has not stopped because of Covid. The state has got time till June 4 to file a review petition against the Supreme Court verdict. This deadline will not be extended due to the pandemic.” “If Covid cases spike in Maharashtra after the June 5 agitation, the super-spreader BJP will be held responsible for it,” said state Congress spokesperson Sachin Sawant replied. The Congress also alleged links of BJP-Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) with Save Merit Save Nation (SMSN), an outfit which had opposed the Maratha reservation in court and on other platforms. The Congress has said that the officer-bearers of SMSN are directly connected with the BJP. “Dr Anup Marar, the founder of the outfit, is the head of the medical cell for east Nagpur cell of the BJP. He was appointed by Devendra Fadnavis and Chandrakant Patil. Other office-bearers Roy Thomas and Anil Ladhad, too, are closely related to the BJP and RSS. They have shared the platform which had supported the Citizenship Amendment Act. The outfit was formed only after Bombay High Court upheld the reservation in 2019. It had sent four petitioners to oppose the reservation and this has been stated on its official website. The outfit’s website was designed by a company which had handled Fadnavis government’s pet projects like Jalyukt Shivar Abhiyan. The BJP should clarify,” alleged Sawant in a virtual press conference on Thursday. BJP’s chief spokesperson Keshav Upadhye said, “The Congress and NCP leaders financed the petitioners who opposed Maratha reservation.” The BJP has announced support to agitations by Maratha outfits and has chalked out an outreach programme to keep the issue in focus. At least six Maratha leaders, including leader of opposition Pravin Darekar, Narayan Rane, Prasad Lad, Radhakrishna Vikhe-Patil, Harshavardhan Patil, Ashish Shelar and Narendra Patil, are touring various districts and meeting community leaders and members. “We are targeting 17 districts across the state with the dominance of the community. Leaders will meet the prominent leaders of Sakal Maratha Samaj and Maratha Kranti Morcha and discuss the reservation,” said Shrikant Bhartiya, general secretary of the party. Meanwhile, the BJP is also disturbed over the stand taken by its Sambhajiraje Chhatrapati, who met Pawar and MNS chief Raj Thackeray on Thursday and will be meeting chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and others in next two days. “I have requested Pawarsaheb to take the lead and guide the community,” said Chhatrapati. Earlier, he had urged the community to maintain restraint. He had also said that he was ready to resign as an MP if required. Patil said on Thursday the former should remember the respect given by the BJP to him. “He was made head of the Raigad development body and was given ample funding for development works. Respecting his position, we ensured that he was not made to come to the party office. He is not talking about 40 other meetings with the PM, while blaming him for denial of appointment after sending four letters,” Patil said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maratha-reservation-bjp-calls-for-protests-congress-warns-of-superspreaders-101622140620817.html
28-05-2021||Noida||In Ghaziabad, 102 villages have no active Covid-19 case||Ghaziabad: The Ghaziabad administration on Thursday said that 102 of 161 villages in the district do not have any active Covid-19 case and the rest are likely to become Covid-free in the next 10 days. The officials have attributed the development to the “voluntary community containment programme”, which was initiated on May 22. According to a survey by the district administration, 22 in Razapur block, 26 in Loni, 39 in Muradnagar and 15 in Bhojpur are Covid-free now. “The 102 villages surveyed by our teams have no active case at present. Our ‘voluntary community containment programme’ has helped us control the infection in villages. Under the programme, villagers are observing restrictions like opening of shops for a brief time period, community policing and restricting outsiders’ entry to villages,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate. “The programme will continue to ensure that no more cases surface further in villages which are Covid-free. The distribution of free medical kits and active participation by ‘gram nigrani samitis’ have also helped check the spread of infection,” he added. On Thursday, Ghaziabad had 54,752 total cases that included 429 deaths, 52,279 patients discharged and 2,044 active cases, according to the state’s daily health bulletin. According to the official figures, about 17,500 tests were conducted across the rural segments during the last five days under the programme which resulted in 252 positive cases. “After the panchayat elections ended on April 15, we stopped entry of outsiders and street vendors. Under the programme initiated by the administration, we asked our shop owners to open shops for limited period of time and villagers also helped in ensuring that Covid protocols were followed. In April, there were about 25 cases. But now, we have no active cases,” said Ashok Kumar, pradhan of Matiyala village. According to the figures, the rural segments of Loni, Modi Nagar and Muradnagar witnessed 644, 451 and 445 Covid cases in April, respectively. During the first 23 days of May, the cases witnessed a spike and stood at 941 and 759 in Modi Nagar and Muradnagar, respectively. However, in Loni, the cases dipped to 317 during the same period. The scenario led the district administration to shift focus to rural areas.The district magistrate also directed the municipal corporation for a survey to find out Covid-free residential wards under the municipal area. Municipal officials said that the survey is on and the figures will be received in a couple of days. “Our teams are conducting surveys in all 100 residential wards and likely to complete it in a day or two. We are also taking help of other sources to determine Covid-free wards,” said MS Tanwar, municipal commissioner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/in-ghaziabad-102-villages-have-no-active-covid-19-case-101622140561439.html
28-05-2021||Mumbai||Pre-monsoon showers arrive in Mumbai||Pre-monsoon showers arrived in parts of the city on Thursday with Santacruz, Borivli, Powai, Mulund, Vikhroli, Malad, Bhandup, Sion, Wadala and Navi Mumbai reporting rainfall early in the day. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) had earlier predicted partly cloudy skies over the city, which began getting overcast on Wednesday evening. Waterlogging was also reported from a few scattered localities across the city, which also experienced gusty winds. Very light rain (0.8mm) was recorded by IMD’s observatory in Santacruz.As per the IMD’s seven-day forecast for the city, “generally cloudy skies with light rain or drizzle” is expected for another two days, while a yellow warning of thunderstorm with lightning and rain at isolated places has been sounded for Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg for Friday and Saturday.While IMD officials confirmed that Thursday’s rain was pre-monsoon showers, they did not specify the onset date for this year’s monsoon season in Mumbai. The normal onset date as per IMD is June 15. “We will know with more certainty once the southwest monsoon arrives in Kerala, which is supposed to happen around May 31,” said an official from IMD, Mumbai.Maximum temperature in the city remained near normal at 33.8 degrees Celsius, and is likely to touch 35 degrees Celsius by June 2. The minimum temperature stood at 28.5 degrees Celsius, one degree above normal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/premonsoon-showers-arrive-in-mumbai-101622140560829.html
28-05-2021||Mumbai||33% quota in promotion for SC, ST: Congress, NCP not on same page||The differences between the three ruling parties over the issue of the reservation in promotion is expected to widen further as the Congress and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) seem to be firm on their stands. The Congress has been insisting to revoke the order that scrapped 33% reservation in promotions to employees from Scheduled Castes (SC), Scheduled Tribes (ST), Vimukta Jati and Nomadic Tribes (VJNT) and Special Backward Classes (SBC), while the NCP is reportedly in favour of scrapping the reservation.On May 7, the state government issued an order scrapping reservation to these categories, citing an August 2017 Bombay high court (HC) order wherein the court had scrapped the state government’s decision taken in 2004 giving reservation in promotion. The state had, on April 20, issued an order to promote the employees by keeping the 33% quota intact. But the U-turn in just two weeks came in the backdrop of a Supreme Court order of quashing Maratha quota on May 5. The move irked the Congress which took an aggressive stand and demanded revocation of the order. The state leadership of the party had also threatened to take aggressive stand if the reservation in promotion was not restored.Congress leaders raised the issue in the state cabinet meeting on Thursday, demanding revocation of the May 7 order. However, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar intervened and told Congress leaders that the meeting of cabinet sub-committee on the subject has been scheduled for Tuesday and there was no need to discuss it in the cabinet. The sub-committee is headed by Pawar with other ministers being its members. Upset over not being allowed to speak in the cabinet, energy minister Nitin Raut met chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and demanded immediate decision. Earlier in the day, senior Congress leaders and ministers Ashok Chavan, Balasaheb Thorat and Raut held a meeting to decide on the strategy.However, Raut on Thursday said there was no question of dissent and the issue is expected to be resolved through discussion. “I met chief minister Thackeray at Varsha. He has assured us to take a decision over the reservation in the cabinet sub-committee meeting on Tuesday. We are firm on our stand,” he said. Though Congress leaders are hell-bent over cancellation of the order, Pawar is reportedly against it. “The petition challenging 2017 HC ruling is pending in the Supreme Court. It has not asked to continue with the quota. Even the law and judiciary opinion on the subject is against reservation. In such a backdrop, it was not possible to implement the quota. Pawar is firm on implementation of the May 7 order,” said an NCP leader requesting anonymity.Congress insiders said party leaders are not on the same page over the subject and that a few senior ministers disapproved of the aggressive stand taken by Raut and Patole.The Congress had, on Tuesday, held a meeting of more than 500 people from SC, ST and VJNT communities and outfits to discuss the issue. In the meeting attended by Maharashtra Congress chief Nana Patole and Raut, party leaders announced to take extreme steps if the demand was not met. Patole had said, “We have conveyed our strong sentiments over the issue to the CM during our meeting with him and have warned him with drastic step. We may even think of outside support to the government protesting the decision,” he had said.Raut and other Congress leaders have been seeking implementation of reservation as per the subsequent Supreme Court orders and an order of department of personnel and training of the union government. They claimed that some states and even the Centre have been implementing the quota.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/33-quota-in-promotion-for-sc-st-congress-ncp-not-on-same-page-101622140502593.html
28-05-2021||Mumbai||ED questions builder Yusuf Lakdawala in Khandala land grab case||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Thursday questioned builder Yusuf Lakdawala in connection with alleged money laundering linked to usurping a Khandala-based land belonging to erstwhile Hyderabad Nawab Himayat Nawaz Jung Bahadur. The land is said to be worth ₹50 crore, and it is suspected that Lakdawala spent around ₹11.5 crore to bribe government officials and estate agents and other accused to grab the land. ED is probing some of the suspicious transactions of the builder linked to the Khandala land, sources said.Officers from ED (zone 2) on Thursday questioned Lakdawala, 76, and recorded his statement. The builder had previously avoided visiting ED office, despite multiple summons served to him. The money laundering case filed by ED is based on the April 2019 first information report (FIR) registered by Mumbai Police’s economic offences wing (EOW) against the builder regarding usurping of the Khandala land, marked in official records as survey number 104 (CTS no. 11, 11A, 11B), and measures 4 acres and 38 gunthas.Jitendra Badgujar, sub-registrar of Maval taluka, had then lodged a complaint, following which the case was filed for cheating, forgery, conspiracy under sections 465, 466, 467, 468, 471, 420, 120-B and 201 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Section 82 of the Indian Registration Act against Lakdawala and others.Following the complaint, a lookout circular was issued against Lakdawala and he was subsequently arrested in the case on April 12, 2019 from Ahmedabad airport while trying to escape the country. ED officers said Lakdawala got bail in February this year and was summoned for questioning over alleged money laundering linked to the land grabbing case. As per EOW’s case, Lakdawala allegedly forged agreement papers, dating back to 1949, signed between his late father, Mohammad Ahmed Lakdawala, and the late Nawab. Lakdawala allegedly obtained an affidavit and a deed of confirmation on the basis of fake documents. The builder used the registration number of the original document, recorded with the Mumbai registrar’s office. The builder had also allegedly tried to destroy the original records of the land at the Lonavala revenue office, an ED officer said.EOW had then found that many dockets pertaining to the land are missing including original copies of some land dealings linked to the disputed land. The 21 legal heirs of the late Nawab had given power of attorney of the disputed land to one Mohan R Nair in 2014. The police later discovered that the documents pertaining to the power of attorney were forged to usurp the land. EOW investigators believed that Nair was paid ₹4 crore by Lakdawala for helping him usurp the land. Besides Lakdawala, EOW had then arrested a real estate agent and an officer from the land record department of Lonavala. Previosly, Lakdawala was in news in 2010 after a Bollywood actor, late Sadhana, had filed a case against him and his wife, alleging that the duo had threatened to kill her as she refused to vacate a bungalow in Khar, where she was living. Sadhana had died after deposing before the magistrate’s court, which had later acquitted Lakdawala in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ed-questions-builder-yusuf-lakdawala-in-khandala-land-grab-case-101622140500872.html
28-05-2021||Delhi||ED case: Amnesty moves HC against accounts freeze||Amnesty International India Private Limited (AIIPL) approached the Delhi high court on Thursday against continuation of the freezing of its bank accounts by the Enforcement Directorate in connection with an alleged violation of the Foreign Contribution Regulation Act (FCRA).The plea, which was urgently mentioned on Thursday, is listed to be heard on Friday.The money laundering case is based on a Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) FIR filed against AIIPL, Indians for Amnesty International Trust (IAIT), Amnesty International India Foundation Trust (AIIFT) ,and Amnesty International South Asia Foundation (AISAF), under various sections of the Foreign Contribution Regulation Act (FCRA) and section 120-B of IPC (criminal conspiracy).In its petition, the human rights organisation has said that 180 days of the provisional attachment order (PAO) that commenced from November 26, has expired and hence the proceedings cannot continue before the adjudicating authority.The plea has said that despite the matter being concluded on May 25 after detailed arguments by the adjudicating authority, they received an email the same day from the adjudicating authority containing notice/ direction fixing a fresh date of hearing on May 28, in the original complaint before the authority.“In view of the above, continuation of proceedings before the Respondent No. 3 Authority in the impugned OC, is illegal, without jurisdiction and contrary to the clear statutory mandate under the PMLA. Furthermore, it is settled law that an interim order passed by a superior court staying the operation/implementation or execution of a judgment does not in any manner diminish its value as a precedent,” the plea said.Attaching over ₹17 crore deposits in February this year, the Enforcement Directorate stated, that both AIIPL and IAIT acquired he proceeds of crime and layered the same in the form of various movable properties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/amnesty-india-moves-delhi-hc-against-continuation-of-freeze-on-accounts-101622140140709.html
28-05-2021||Delhi||Black fungus now an epidemic, govt to be informed of all cases||The Delhi government on Thursday declared mucormycosis an epidemic and made it mandatory for all health care institutions in the city to report suspected and confirmed cases of the infection to them, amid a sharp spike in incidences of the fungal infection over the past few weeks as a complication among patients with Covid-19.The move comes a week after the Centre urged all states to categorise the infection as a notifiable disease after an increase in cases following the second wave of Covid-19 in April.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday said over 620 patients are being treated for mucormycosis, known commonly as black fungus, in city hospitals, and flagged a severe shortage of Amphotericin-B, the only last-line drug used to treat the fungal infection.Instances of black fungus are extremely rare, and major hospitals in the Capital like the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) and Sir Ganga Ram Hospital see between six and 15 cases of the infection in an entire year, usually.The Delhi Epidemic Diseases (Mucormycosis) Regulations 2021, which will remain in force for a year, forbid any organisation from “spreading information or material” or using “print or electronic or any other form of media for mucormycosis” without prior permission from the health department.This means that hospitals will not be allowed to share, without approval, details about infections and the number of cases with the press. However, it is unclear whether rule this will cover requests for medicines and other information put out on the social media.As of Tuesday, the city received 3,850 vials of Amphotericin-B, against a requirement of over 30,000 doses a week, said senior officials in Delhi’s health department.The Delhi government estimates that the city will need around 100,000 doses of the medicine over the next two months.To help address these shortages, the Delhi high court on Thursday allowed the duty free import of Amphotericin-B, on furnishing a bond by the importers till the Centre takes a decision on the tax waiver.The regulations, Dr Nutan Mundeja, Delhi’s director general of health services, said all health care facilities in the Capital must follow guidelines issued by the Union health ministry and the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) on screening, diagnosis, and management of mucormycosis.The order also mandates that a committee be constituted under every chief district medical officer (CDMO) comprising doctors specialising in internal medicine, ophthalmology, ENT, as well as epidemiologists to review instances of individuals or organisations disobeying the order.In the event the regulations are flouted, the district magistrate concerned will issue a notice and ask for a response within a fixed period. If a reply is not received or found to be unsatisfactory, action can be taken under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code that allows for imprisonment up to six months or a fine of ₹1,000 fine or both for disobeying a public servant’s order.Mucormycosis mainly affects those who are severely immunocompromised, have uncontrolled diabetes, have had Covid-19, and were treated using steroids. It mainly affects the mouth, nose, eye and later spreads to the brain. It can kill almost half the people it infects if left untreated.“The high number of cases could be because there was no glucose control in patients during the pandemic. Also, steroids were used in high quantities when there was a shortage of oxygen. And, we are yet to study the immune dysregulation caused by the new variants of Sars-CoV-2 and whether it is different from the old ones,” said Dr Arunaloke Chakrabarti, head of the department of microbiology at Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education & Research in Chandigarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-declares-black-fungus-an-epidemic-restricts-hospitals-from-making-details-of-cases-public-101622139661076.html
28-05-2021||Other||Families move HC seeking CBI probe||The family members of nine the 21 people who died, allegedly of lack of oxygen at the Jaipur Golden hospital on April 23-24, have petitioned the Delhi high court demanding a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) or a special investigation team.The plea, filed on Thursday through advocate Utsav Bains, challenged the findings of a Delhi government panel that the patients died of comobidities and not lack of oxygen supply. It also demanded compensation for the families of the victims, and an order to authorities to seize the CCTV footage from the hospital.The Delhi government on April 28 constituted a committee to ascertain the number of deaths due to shortage of oxygen in the hospitals across the city, following a direction by the high court on April 27.In its report, the committee said the patients at Jaipur Golden hospital in Rohini died of comorbidities, and that there was no mention of oxygen shortage in any of the case records.The committee said that many of the patients had one or multiple co-morbidities such as heart disease, diabetes, hypothyroidism and hypertension.“All these patients were receiving some form of oxygen therapy and/or ventilator support during the hospital stay,” the report said.Quoting a report in HT on May 4, the petitioners said that they got to know about the findings of the panel from the news story.The petition alleged that the report prepared by the committee was “erroneous”, and that the authorities have rendered themselves not only liable to pay compensation to the families of the victims but also for criminal prosecution.The Delhi government did not comment on the matter. The petition is likely to be listed next week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jaipur-golden-hospital-deaths-families-of-deceased-patients-demand-cbi-probe-101622139540392.html
28-05-2021||Mumbai||Air India loses fourth pilot to Covid-19||National carrier Air India lost its fourth pilot to Covid-19. Captain Prasad Karmakar, a Mumbai resident who actively operated flights to the United States (US) under the Vande Bharat mission passed away at 6.30pm on Thursday. Capt. Karmarkar joined Air India in 1990 as an avionics engineer and started flying in 1997. A condolence message from the airline’s pilots said, “Capt. Karmakar was soft-spoken by nature but a thorough gentleman. Well known for being sincere and hardworking towards his profession. Capt. Karmakar, has over the years captained the Airbus 310 and the Boeing 777 aircraft types. Collectively he has served Air India for over 30 years. He was actively involved in flying Vande Bharat missions throughout the pandemic until he recently fell ill with Covid19. He will be missed dearly. We extend our deepest condolences to the bereaved family and assure all our support.” Also Read | Air India staff unions seek probe into provident fund trustsCapt. Karmakar last operated a Chicago-Delhi flight on April 25 and developed symptoms after returning to Mumbai. He tested positive for Covid-19 on April 29, after which, he was admitted to SRV Hospital on April 30. “Capt. Karmakar was first admitted to SRV hospital but was shifted to Hiranandani hospital on May 20,” said a pilot friend. Capt. Karmakar left behind his wife and two daughters. A senior pilot said, “Capt. Karmakar is the fourth captain to lose his life to Covid, in this month alone.” Capt. Amitesh Prasad, a senior Air India pilot who operated flights under the government’s Vande Bharat Mission (VBM), Boeing 777, and also cargo flights, lost his battle to Covid-19 on May 9. The 54-year-old, a resident of Kandivli, had last landed in Bengaluru on April 15. He complained of symptoms after reaching Mumbai and tested positive on April 20, after which, he was immediately admitted to the hospital. Two more pilots- Capt. Sandeep Rana and Capt. GPS Gill too succumbed to Covid-19 this month. “It gets very disturbing when you come to know that your colleague is critical or has passed away due to Covid-19. Initially, you fail to reconcile that such a tragedy has happened but then gradually the reality sets in. The series of such deaths of our friends is leading to stress and impacting our mental health,” said a senior pilot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/air-india-loses-fourth-pilot-to-covid19-101622138520135.html
28-05-2021||Delhi||Covid-19: 12-year-old moves court, seeks jabs for those below 18||The Delhi high court on Friday will hear a plea by a 12-year-old seeking direction to the Centre and the Delhi government to immediately vaccinate children between the ages of 12-17 in the city.The plea, filed by Tia Gupta through advocate Abhinav Mukherjee, has also demanded that vaccination be prioritised for parents having children up to 17 years of age.The petition, listed before a bench of chief justice DN Patel and justice Jyoti Singh, said that data from across the country, including Delhi, has shown that between April 2021 to May 2021, the number of youngsters being infected from Covid 19 has “risen tremendously”.“There are also reports of many children left orphaned due to deaths of their parents,” the plea said, contending that the vaccine policy of India against Covid-19 has failed to factor in children or parents of children who are a vulnerable section of society for vaccination against the deadly virus.Meanwhile, the high court sought responses from the Centre and Delhi government on a plea seeking directions to them to ensure adequate supply of Covid-19 vaccine for the residents, especially in 18-44 age groups, of the national capital.A bench of chief justice DN Patel and justice Jyoti Singh issued notice to the ministry of home affairs and the Delhi government seeking their stand on the plea by a lawyer who has argued that the residents of the national capital should not suffer as result of the “blame game” between the two governments.The lawyer, Vivek Gaur, 43, argued while the Delhi government claims it has placed an order of over 13.4 million doses of the vaccines with the Centre, the Centre has claimed no such order has been placed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/12yearold-moves-hc-demands-vaccination-for-those-below-18-101622138460201.html
28-05-2021||Delhi||Six-member panel to look into deaths due to oxygen shortage||The state government on Thursday set up a six-member panel to look into deaths caused due to oxygen shortages at the peak of the fourth wave of Covid-19. The panel will also ascertain the criteria for compensation to be given to families.The state government will give families of the deceased between ₹50,000 and ₹5 lakh compensation.To be sure, the family of any Delhi resident who dies of Covid-19 is given ₹50,000 compensation. This panel will decide on any compensation over and above this amount.“The committee will check whether oxygen was being used properly in the hospitals as per the norms. The committee will check the steps taken by the hospital to maintain sufficient oxygen stock with respect to patients admitted therein,” the order read.The committee includes a doctor from the department of medicine and another from anaesthesia at Lok Nayak hospital, an anaesthetist from Lal Bahadur Shastri hospital, an official from the directorate general of health services, and two heads of private hospitalsThe complaints will be received online and offline by the nursing home cell, and will be assessed at least twice a week. The committee will be empowered to ask the hospitals in question for any documents needed, according to the order by special secretary (health) SM Ali.At least 32 people across two city hospitals died ostensibly due to oxygen shortage in Delhi.Twenty patients, mostly admitted to the intensive care unit, in Jaipur Golden hospital died around midnight on April 23 after the pressure in the oxygen system ran low, when the hospital switched from liquid medical oxygen to manifold with oxygen cylinders.Another 12 people, including the head of the department of gastroenterology, died in Batra hospital on May 2 when the hospital was forced to switch to oxygen cylinders after it was left without liquid oxygen for 80 minutes.Sir Ganga Ram hospital said 25 of their sickest patients died and also said there was oxygen crisis in the hospital, without claiming there were any direct connection between the two.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-sets-up-panel-to-look-into-deaths-due-to-oxygen-shortage-fix-compensation-101622138100109.html
28-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi to draw up graded response action plan to tackle Covid-19 third wave||Building on the lessons it learnt from the brutal fourth wave of infections in the national capital, the Delhi government on Thursday said that it will create a “graded response action plan (Grap)” for the timely management of the pandemic through pre-planned and systematic interventions.Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal will chair a meeting of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Friday to discuss these measures, officials said.The health department on Thursday ordered the constitution of two committees for the purpose. The first will be a “state level expert committee”, comprising senior doctors and bureaucrats, and will be tasked with preparing the Grap measures depending on the positivity rate in Delhi at any point.The panel will devise a plan to mitigate the impact of a possible third wave and will also chalk out the preparations necessary to handle the specialised needs of children, in case more of them fall ill, as predicted by certain experts.“Devise clear guidelines on when to announce lockdown and to what degree or extent. Prepare a plan of action for increasing and activating hospital infrastructure (isolation beds, oxygen beds, ICU beds, ventilators), essential drugs, oxygen supply, and other crucial items based on the positivity rate indicator,” said the order on the state level expert committee.The second committee will act more like a third wave task force in Delhi, a senior health official said. This panel comprises 13 members -- all bureaucrats and the state director general of health services.The committee has been tasked with the preparation of a detailed plan of action to estimate the number of beds (isolation, oxygen, ICU, etc) and additional equipment required, where these equipment and materials will be sourced from.The government is also giving priority to ensuring adequate oxygen supply, officials said.The order asked the panel to ensure that all the large hospital facilities, wherever possible, get their own oxygen generation plants which can serve their oxygen needs.It also directed that all Delhi government hospitals must have provisions for supply of piped oxygen and enough oxygen cylinders.“An assessment of the requirement of transportation vehicles in order to procure cryogenic tankers, and other vehicles required for the smooth transportation of oxygen from other states should also be done,” the order further stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-creates-graded-response-action-plan-to-tackle-a-third-wave-101622138040132.html
28-05-2021||Delhi||19-year-old St Stephen’s student died of Covid||A 19-year-old first-year student of history at Delhi University (DU)’s St Stephen’s College succumbed to Covid-19 on Wednesday. This is the first reported coronavirus disease death among undergraduate students in the varsity.Satyam Jha, a resident of Kolkata, died in Kota, Rajasthan, on Wednesday, his friends and teachers said, adding that he was in Kota with his family for personal reasons.Even though he never attended classes in person, owing to the pandemic, teachers, seniors and classmates remembered Jha as an “all-rounder”, who was “intelligent, bright and research-minded”.Malay Neerav, head of the department of history at St Stephen’s College, said, “This is just like losing one’s own child. I knew him from the time he had appeared for the online interview seeking an admission to our college. He was exceptional... It’s so unfortunate he left us.”The college on Thursday organised a memorial service and prayer meeting in Jha’s memory.College principal John Varghese also put out a message on the college website offering condolences, “A young man looking forward to life, exceptionally. His dreams and those of his parents and all who loved him came to an end with his death. His soul, though, we pray, hope, and believe, rest in eternal peace.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/19yearold-st-stephen-s-student-died-of-covid19-101622137920667.html
28-05-2021||Pune||Passengers arriving on private buses in Pune to undergo thermal screening||PUNE Passengers arriving on private buses in the city will undergo a thermal screening, as per a decision taken by the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) commissioner Vikram Kumar on Thursday. Currently, there are no clear guidelines on these passengers and since no e-pass is required to travel on these buses, the rush for tickets has increased in the last one month. Given that Covid numbers are plateauing in the city now, the PMC does not want to take a risk, hence the thermal screening.“Passengers coming from outside the state need to submit an RT-PCR negative report, but for passengers within the state there is no such compulsion. A large number of passengers travel by these private tourist buses within the state, and there is no checking done. When these passengers come to Pune they directly get involved in their day-to-day work, and if there is anyone Covid positive with no symptoms, it will lead to a spread of the infection. It has been decided that thermal screening of all such passengers on private tourist buses will be dne,” said Kumar. In Pune, at the four main exit roads of the city, viz Ahmednagar road, Hadapsar, Solapur road and Katraj, there has been rush of passengers to board these private buses. Welcoming this decision of the PMC, Shantaram Kenjale, a regular inter-district traveller, said, “It is risky to travel by private buses and during lockdown an as e-pass is not required. When thermal checking is done, at least there will be some monitoring of symptomatic and asymptomatic patients. It will certainly reduce the spread of the infection.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/passengers-arriving-on-private-buses-to-undergo-thermal-screening-101622127659211.html
28-05-2021||Pune||As price of petrol nears Rs100/litre, middle-class Punekars bear burden of budgets going awry||PUNE Hiked by 0.27 paise on Thursday, the price of a litre of petrol inched closer to the ₹100-mark, hitting ₹99.62 in Pune, according to the price notifications of state-owned fuel retailers. Diesel crossed the ₹90 mark and was at ₹90.15 per litre in the city on Thursday. This is the 14th time fuel prices have risen this month. Fuel prices started to rise from May 4, when petrol was at ₹96.62 per litre and diesel was at ₹86.32 per litre. The petrol price crossed ₹100/litre in Mumbai on Thursday. Currently, due to Covid curbs, daily traffic is comparatively much less, but those who do not have the option to work from home and need to step out for their livelihoods are facing soaring fuel prices. Chetan Kharote, who used to drive for Ola and Uber in the city, has stopped running his car. Kharote said that with soaring fuel prices and reducing profit margins, it is more affordable for him to not drive in the current situation. “I have been in this business since 2014 and bought my own diesel car in 2018. At that time, the diesel price was in the range of ₹60 per litre. Now I have stopped business. Because of curbs there are fewer passengers and the diesel price has been soaring, so the profit margin has reduced. It is better to keep the car standing rather than put in my own money to operate. It’s a tricky situation,” said Kharote. “I bought my car for ₹6.5 lakh on a loan. I still need to pay that money back. I am working part-time driving other people’s vehicles if they need to go somewhere, charging only for driving. Currently it is not viable for me to take my own car. We cannot even increase the fares,” he added. Vivek Kondhalkar, a civil engineer with a private construction firm in the city, has to visit construction sites. “I have to travel 30-40 km per day to visit the sites. Even if we are not working we have to use the vehicle for personal work. A substantial amount of my salary is going to fill fuel. From ₹60 per litre, petrol now has reached ₹100. If fuel prices increase, it impacts everything, from the price of vegetables and milk to groceries. It is an increasing burden,” said Kondhalkar, who lives in Ambegaon Budruk. Husaina Sheikh, who works as a helper in a private hospital in Hadapsar, is finding it difficult to manage her monthly expenses. “I am the sole earning member in my family. Because of the lockdown my husband and sons are unemployed right now. The hospital I work in is five 5 kilometers away from my home. My son drops me on his bike. I earn Rs7,000 per month. How should we manage expenses when the cost of petrol is increasing. If I fill ₹100 worth of petrol, it lasts hardly for two days,” said Sheikh||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/as-price-of-petrol-nears-rs100-litre-middle-class-folk-bear-burden-of-budgets-going-awry-101622125258969.html
28-05-2021||Delhi||Cops’ charge sheet says R-Day violence at Red Fort a ‘well-planned conspiracy’||Protesters armed with swords, rods, pharsi (saintie), wooden legs of a cot and spears stormed the historical Red Fort in Delhi as part of a “well-planned conspiracy” to “cause mayhem”, the Delhi Police have said in a charge sheet in the violence at the monument on Republic Day during a tractor rally taken out by farmers protesting against the three farm laws enacted by the Centre in September last year.The crime branch of the Delhi police, which is investigating the case, has named 16 suspects in the charge sheet that was filed on May 17 in a Delhi court. The police have termed the alleged storming of the fort by the protesters a “well-planned conspiracy.” According to the charge sheet, the accused came well equipped to “cause mayhem” and use the Red Fort premises as their new protest site.Scanning footage from over 100 video clips that were shot by drones, hired photographers, those posted on social media and footage from CCTV cameras, police have attached clips in the charge sheet to show how the protesters indulged in violence carrying the “weapons” cited above. As evidence, the police have also attached a copy of the cell phone location of all 16 accused to establish their presence at the Mughal-era fort when the protesters clashed with the police and vandalised property at the monument.The charge sheet running into 3,224 pages was submitted before a duty metropolitan magistrate in Tis Hazari court which is expected to hear the matter on Friday. A charge sheet is a legal document submitted to court by the investigating officer, which lists the charges and evidence against those who are charged in the case. It is on the basis of a charge sheet that the court holds trial.Punjabi actor-turned-activist Deep Sidhu is among the 16 people named in the charge sheet. All 16 were arrested in connection with the case filed by the police. While Sidhu and 12 others have been released on bail, three accused, 23-year-old Dutch national of Indian origin, Maninderjit Singh, Khempreet Singh and Jabrajang Singh, are still in judicial custody. Police have attached a video of Sidhu allegedly showing him throwing away the national flag. “At the very same time (after rioters climbed the ramparts) another member from the unlawfully assembled riotous mob handed him (Sidhu) over the national flag to hoist it alongside the Nishan Sahib, but the individual (Sidhu) over the pole threw away the national flag,” the police said.Two separate cases were registered in connection with the violence at the Red Fort. While one case involving serious charges such as rioting, attempt to murder, and criminal conspiracy was registered on the police’s complaint, the second case was registered on the basis of a complaint filed by the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI), which is the custodian of the Mughal-era fort. Sidhu was arrested in both the cases.The police are yet to file a charge sheet in the second case.No senior police officer on Friday commented on the charge sheet, saying the matter is in court now.The police suspect some pro-Khalistan terror groups based outside India could be involved. They have mentioned a telephone call that one of the accused, Iqbal Singh,45, received when he was at the Red Fort complex. Police said the call originated in Canada.Iqbal has also been mentioned in the charge sheet as one of the people who instigated the mob at the fort. Iqbal, a Ludhiana resident, was held on February 10.According to the charge sheet, a video shows Iqbal instigating the mob to attack security guards and police personnel, who were deployed to secure the ASI-protected monument on January 26.“Hamare pass dande bhi hai... dande tayyar rakh lo,” the police quoted him as saying in the video clip.Quoting an alleged confession by Iqbal Singh, the police said he was promised a cash reward by the Sikhs For Justice group, a banned pro-Khalistan organisation, if he hoisted the Nishan Sahib flag at the Red Fort.To be sure, Singh’s “confession” to the police cannot be considered admissible evidence by the court.“During police custody remand accused (Iqbal) has also disclosed that during his stay/visit to Canada in 2009, the accused worked at a gurdwara in Toronto, which is known/popular for its support to Khalistani movement in Punjab. Even on the date of incident i.e., 26th January 2021, while he was present at Red Fort, he received a call from Canada. ….Furthermore there is one audio conversation on record, where in the daughter of the accused Iqbal Singh is conversing with one of his relative mentioning that they will be getting an amount of ₹50 lakh,” the police said in the charge sheet.At least 394 police personnel and 10 farmers were injured during Republic Day’s tractor rally when protesting farmers deviated from the pre-approved route and clashed with police personnel.Manjinder Singh Sirsa, president of the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee, rejected the “conspiracy angle” given by the police to the protest. Sirsa’s team is providing legal help to some of those who participated in the rally and are now facing court proceedings. He said his team has sought bail for 156 farmers, who were accused in the January 26 violence case but in none of the hearings the police said it was a conspiracy.Sirsa said, “Last month, when Deep Sidhu was granted bail by the court, even then the police did not allege conspiracy.“First, the police should define what they mean by ‘association with Khalistan terror group’? For the last three months, the investigators are probing the angles of terror links and foreign funding of farmer protests, but they are yet to establish or prove anything.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/red-fort-violence-was-well-planned-conspiracy-charge-sheet-101622106197508.html
28-05-2021||Pune||21-year-old sarpanch keeps his Solapur village Covid free||It was a difficult task for Ruturaj Deshmukh and his team to overcome the recent increasing number of Covid cases in their village, but through their tireless efforts, Ghatane village is now Covid free. 21-year-old Deshmukh is sarpanch of Ghatane village in Mohol taluka, Solapur.“Since the Covid pandemic started last year, there was not a single case in our village. This year, in March, the first case of Covid was found in our village and suddenly the entire picture changed,” Deshmukh said.The village of 5,000 residents had 100 confirmed Covid cases in April. “People started fearing going out and most of them shifted to other villages. We decided to run a drive called, “Be positive and keep our village Covid negative”, to which we got a good response from villagers,” said Deshmukh .Deshmukh completed his Bachelor of Science degree in Chemistry from the Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) last year. “The five major things which we did to reduce Covid cases in the village were rapid antigen tests of all coming to the village from cities engaged in various types of trade. We encouraged people above the age of 45 to get vaccinated. Our Grampanchayat workers and volunteers went to each house to check oxygen levels and body temperature. Each family was given a Covid safety kit with a sanitiser, face masks, vitamin capsules and soaps. Also people coming from outside were strictly told to be in quarantine for at least three day. Our village became Covid free within a month,” says Deshmukh .Appreciating the work of Deshmukh as a young sarpanch, villager Devika Parvati Mali said, “As the cases were increasing in the village, Ruturaj and other members of the Grampanchayat really took efforts to stop the spread of infection. This pattern is appreciated and other villages can also learn from it.”Villager Mangal Deshmukh said, “There was a mental support for our family, when volunteers and the sarpanch would come to our house and do checking. Earlier, we used to feel unsafe as Covid cases were increasing, but now as our village is Covid free, it is a safer place to live.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/21yearold-sarpanch-former-sppu-student-keeps-his-village-covid-free-101622040913482.html
28-05-2021||Mumbai||Personal Finance: Writing a will is essential to financial planning||We are often so engrossed in providing for our loved ones and choosing the right investments to secure their future that we forget to write a will that would detail how we intend to allocate our various investments. Many people interpret a will as merely a legal document to distribute properties and take care of minor dependents, but the document, at its core, offers clarity of succession.“A will can contain details stating apportioning of personal financial investments. An estate of the testator is all the property a person owns or controls. The property in one’s estate may consist of financial assets (e.g., bank accounts, stocks, bonds, or business interests), tangible personal assets (e.g., artwork, collectables, or vehicles), immovable property (e.g., residential real estate, tea/timber rights), and intellectual property (e.g., royalties). Accordingly, it is always beneficial that the testator should apportion all his or her movable and immovable assets at the time of preparation of the will so that shares/assets allotted to beneficiaries or legal heirs can be retained by them,” Neha Gupta, Principal Associate, Athena Legal said.Nominee vs beneficiary vs legal heir Ever tried filling a bank application form or a consent form before making your investments? Apart from your details, you are required to choose a nominee for your deposits and investments that may include your parents, spouse, siblings, and children. While opening bank accounts or investing money in bank deposits, you can either choose one nominee or multiple nominees for your various investments from members within your family and not outside your family.As opposed to the widely held belief that the nominees are people who get the money and keep it with themselves, a nominee is a person who has a right to hold the assets/property on behalf of the deceased in trust, to be distributed to the actual persons having beneficial ownership under the succession laws.“A beneficiary is a person having actual beneficial interest in the asset/property as per the succession laws, whether under a will or otherwise. In certain cases, such as transmission of shares, ‘nominee’ also indicates beneficial ownership of the shares, as specifically provided in the Companies Act,” Amit Jajoo, partner, IndusLaw explained.A nominee may or may not be the legal heir to the will. If the nominee is from someone outside the family, he or she is responsible for the disbursement of the proceeds among beneficiaries mentioned in the will. The beneficiary (one or more) has a financial interest and can either be from the family or outside. Beneficiaries can also include financial institutions that may have provided loan(s) to the person writing the will. In most cases, legal heirs are the beneficiaries mentioned in the will.However, the beneficiaries may be different from legal heir(s), which is why you must name designated beneficiaries in your will. “According to the provisions of the Indian Succession Act, 1925, any person capable of holding property (including an outsider) can be nominated as a beneficiary under a will. If a minor has been named as a beneficiary, then a guardian should be appointed by the testator to manage the bequeathed property,” Petrushka Dasgupta, Partner, Induslaw said.Passing away without naming beneficiaries irrespective of whether they are the same or different from the nominee(s) may result in unnecessary legal hassles between the designated beneficiaries and legal heirs of the assets getting divided.We all may not have the benefit of having a family or being in the company of immediate family members. This has forced many people to rely on relatives, extended family members or chosen family to take care of their money. However, a nominee must be reliable and worthy enough to carry out the dictates of the will. A friend or live-in partner can be a nominee, and it must be explicitly mentioned in the will for the assets to be handed over to him or her for proper distribution and allocation as mentioned in the will.Why must you write a will? Many people do not understand why a will must be made, especially, with the nominee(s) being mentioned for all investments. As Gupta explained, a will supersedes the nomination for most assets. “A will is the supreme document that specifies the exact intentions of the testator to the succession of properties.” So, for example, if a bank account has a nominee, and the will has the name of another beneficiary, it is the latter that will receive the money in the account. “It is important to note that a will that has been proven valid wields the power to override any arrangements or nominations made during an individual’s lifetime.”(Personal Finance is a weekly feature that aims to provide our readers pertinent and helpful financial information)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/personal-finance-writing-a-will-is-essential-to-financial-planning-101621795564354.html
28-05-2021||World||Biden's budget shows focus on wealth redistribution, not growth||President Joe Biden’s budget on Friday revealed a blueprint for addressing long-standing inequities in the U.S. economy, rather than serving as a game-changer for the nation’s weakened economic-growth trend of recent years.Biden’s program breaks with recent presidents’ budgets, which promised that policy proposals would turbo-charge gross domestic product. Biden’s central goal is instead societal change -- attempting to reverse decades of widening income and wealth gaps that often fall along racial lines.The budget comes at the tail-end of the Covid-19 recession, which exacerbated these divides and erased years of gains made by American workers.The administration forecasts no major change in the trend rate for GDP in the coming decade, with the expansion seen averaging about 2% over the coming decade. That’s in line with the average over the 15 years through 2019, before the pandemic struck.The proposed 2022 budget request includes funding for early childcare and colleges, investing in minority-owned businesses and grants to improve public transportation in poor communities.“Where we choose to invest speaks to what we value as a nation,” Biden said in a statement released by the Office of Management and Budget. “It is a budget that reflects the fact that trickle-down economics has never worked.”The idea is that boosting the middle class and the poorest Americans will provide more stable, long-term growth.It’s an approach that contrasts sharply with the strategy of prior presidents including Ronald Reagan, whose administrations argued that tax cuts and deregulation would strengthen economic expansions -- something that George H.W. Bush derided as “voodoo economics.” President Donald Trump also promised to juice the economy, forecasting 3% annual growth.“Unlike past major investments, the plan also prioritizes addressing long-standing and persistent racial injustice and helps ensure rural, urban, and Tribal communities have a fair shot at prosperity,” the administration said in describing Biden’s infrastructure and jobs plan Friday.Cecilia Rouse, chair of the Council of Economic Advisers, told reporters Friday that the economic forecasts were developed in early February, and don’t fully reflect the policies proposed in the budget. She said that the White House opted to release the budget, already later than its typical publication date, without further delay to incorporate recent data and progress battling the pandemic, and that she couldn’t currently quantify that full impact.Still, the steady-state forecast does include some of the impact of the $4 trillion in spending and tax credits in the American Jobs Plan and American Families Plan, Biden’s two-pronged long-term economic programs.‘Equitable’ Growth“The administration’s policies thus far are very much targeted at not just growing our way out of this -- because that’s always going to be just a part of the solution -- but making sure that that growth is equitable,” Jared Bernstein, a Biden economic adviser, said on Bloomberg TV May 11. Equity is mentioned almost 40 times in the budget document, double the references to growth.The White House sees the budget deficit shrinking from the historic pandemic highs, though remaining well above 4% in the outer years of the coming decade, with 4.7% seen for 2031. Inflation, as measured by consumer prices, is seen remaining contained after its pop this spring, with the pace never exceeding an annual 2.3% in the next 10 years.Biden’s budget plan, headlined with $6 trillion of requested spending for the fiscal year that starts Oct. 1, along with his longer-term proposals, faces major reshaping in Congress. But it serves as a gauge of White House priorities as negotiations proceed with lawmakers. To fund his spending plans, Biden has pitched tax increases on corporations and wealthy American households.While the tax system would be more progressive, it would not fully pay for the proposed spending plans over a decade, according to the budget proposal. The discrepancies will present a challenge for Congressional Democrats as many moderates want to scale back some of these tax proposals, as well, which means an even bigger funding gap.Biden’s Jobs plan would increase taxes on corporations by $2 trillion over the decade. The Families plan includes approximately $1.5 trillion in tax increases on high-earners roughly split from increased rates on income and capital gains, and from increased IRS enforcement and audits. The total spending on tax credits for low-income households, childcare spending and education investments total nearly $1.8 trillion.Biden’s economic team at the White House has been determined to make good on his campaign pledge to raise taxes on the rich, emboldened by the sharply divergent experiences of those at the top and bottom of the socioeconomic scale during the Covid-19 crisis.The top 1% of U.S. households experienced a $4 trillion increase in wealth last year, or 35% of total gains, while the poorest half in the country -- about 64 million people -- saw only 4% of the gains. Much of that accumulated to those investing in stocks and with a college education.“The president believes strongly that the biggest corporations and those folks who have done extremely well over the last several decades should pay a bit more,” Bharat Ramamurti, a member of the National Economic Council, said in a Bloomberg TV interview earlier this year. While “the wealthiest folks” did well even over the past year, one in seven American families reported going hungry during the pandemic, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/bidens-budget-shows-focus-on-wealth-redistribution-not-growth-101622225159176.html
28-05-2021||World||US, Britain seek WHO look deep into Covid-19 origins in China||The United States and Britain are stepping up calls for the World Health Organization to take a deeper look into the possible origins of Covid-19, including a new visit to China where the first human infections were detected.WHO and Chinese experts issued a first report in March that laid out four hypotheses about how the pandemic emerged. The joint team said the most likely scenario was that the coronavirus jumped into people from bats via an intermediary animal, and the prospect that it erupted from a laboratory was deemed “extremely unlikely.”Late Thursday, the U.S. diplomatic mission in Geneva issued a statement saying the first phase of the study was “insufficient and inconclusive,” and called for a “timely, transparent, evidence-based and expert-led Phase 2 study, including in the People’s Republic of China.”The statement — coming in the middle of the WHO's annual assembly in Geneva — demanded access for independent experts to “complete, original data and samples” relevant to the source of the virus and early stages of the outbreak.“We appreciate the WHO’s stated commitment to move forward with Phase 2 of the Covid-19 origins study, and look forward to an update from Director General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus,” the statement said.Also Thursday, the British ambassador in Geneva, Simon Manley, said the first phase study was “always meant to be the beginning of the process, not the end.”“We call for a timely, transparent, evidence-based, and expert-led phase two study, including in the People’s Republic of China, as recommended by the experts’ report,” he said.At a press briefing on Friday, WHO emergencies chief Dr. Michael Ryan said the search for the origins of the coronavirus “has been poisoned by politics.”“Over the last number of days, we’ve seen more and more and more discourse in the media with terribly little actual news or evidence or new material,” Ryan said. “And this is quite disturbing.”He said WHO chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus has been clear that ”all hypotheses for the origin of the virus remain on the table” and pleaded for space so scientists could do their work.“If you expect scientists to collaborate and actually get the answers that you want ... we would ask that all this be done in a de-politicized environment, where science and health is the objective, and not blame and politics,” Ryan said.WHO spokesman Tarik Jasarevic said in an e-mail that a technical team -- led by Peter Ben Embarek, who headed the WHO team in China that co-authored the first report -- was preparing “a proposal for the next studies that will need to be carried out.”Jasarevic said that proposal would be presented to Tedros “for his consideration,” but said there was no timetable for such a presentation.After the first report was released, the WHO chief acknowledged that further studies were needed on issues like early detection of cases and clusters, and the possible roles of animal markets, transmission through the food chain, and the lab-incident hypothesis, Jasarevic noted.The push in Geneva amounts to a new front of U.S. pressure a day after President Joe Biden said that he had instructed the U.S. intelligence community to “redouble their efforts” to get “information that could bring us closer to a definitive conclusion” on the virus' origins, and to report back in 90 days.Biden's administration wants to step up calls for China to be more open about the outbreak, aiming to head off complaints from opposition Republican senators that the president has not been tough enough, as well as to use the opportunity to press China on alleged obstruction.Republicans, including former President Donald Trump, have promoted the theory that the virus emerged from a laboratory accident rather than naturally through human contact with an infected animal in China.On Tuesday, a Chinese representative, who was not identified, told the WHO's assembly that China believed the “China part” of the origins-tracing study “has been completed.” According to an interpreter, he said China wanted a “global origin-tracing cooperation” — which suggested his government wants the hunt to be carried out elsewhere.On Wednesday, Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian went further, suggesting that U.S. sites should be explored — reiterating Chinese-fanned speculation that the coronavirus could have erupted elsewhere. China has provided no evidence for such claims.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-britain-seek-who-look-deep-into-covid-19-origins-in-china-101622223168712.html
28-05-2021||World||US bans imports from Chinese fishing fleet over forced labor allegations||U.S. Customs and Border Protection on Friday imposed a new import ban on seafood from a Chinese fishing fleet that the agency says is using forced labor on its 32 vessels, including abuses against many Indonesian workers.CBP said it will immediately detain tuna, swordfish and other products from the Dalian Ocean Fishing Co Ltd at U.S. ports of entry. The "withhold release order" banning the imports also applies to other end use products containing seafood from the company, such as canned tuna and pet food, a CBP official said.Department of Homeland Security Secretary Alejandro Mayorkas said that the action marks the first time that CBP has banned imports from an entire fishing fleet, as opposed to individual vessels targeted in the past."DHS will continue to aggressively investigate the use of force labor by distant water fishing vessels, and by a wide range of other industries," Mayorkas told a news briefing. "Producers and U.S. importers alike should understand that there will be consequences for entities that attempt to exploit workers to sell goods in the United States."CBP officials said the agency's investigation revealed that many Indonesian workers hired onto Dalian Ocean Fishing vessels found conditions far different than what they expected and were subjected to physical violence, withholding of pay, debt bondage and abusive working and living conditions.Earlier this week, U.S. Trade Representative Katherine Tai called attention to the issue of forced labor on fishing vessels, submitting a new proposal to the World Trade Organization to curb subsidies to illegal fishing and requiring that member countries recognize the problem.U.S. imports from Dalian Ocean Fishing are small, amounting to just $233,000 in the 2020 fiscal year, CBP said.But the issue of forced labor is a growing flashpoint in strained U.S.-China relations, after numerous recent import bans related to China's detention of Uyghur Muslims in the farwestern Xinjiang region. The move comes less than two days after Tai held an initial conversation with Chinese Vice Premier Liu He.The Trump administration, during its last week in office in January, announced a sweeping import ban on all cotton and tomato products from Xinjiang over allegations that they are produced with Uyghur forced labor - a far reaching move that would require apparel and textile industries to reorder their supply chains.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-bans-imports-from-chinese-fishing-fleet-over-forced-labor-allegations-101622219701107.html
28-05-2021||World||UK cops stumble on Bitcoin mine while hunting for cannabis farm||When British police raided a warehouse, they were expecting to find a cannabis farm. Instead they found banks of computers illegally siphoning the electricity needed to mine for Bitcoin.Cops in West Midlands, England seized around 100 computer units that were working to bypass the local power grid. They discovered the warehouse after sending a drone over the site, which detected a considerable heat source.Mining for Bitcoin devours massive amounts of power, racking up huge bills for dedicated miners. The process, which needs computers to solve complex math problems to create new coins, now uses 66 times more electricity than in 2015, Citigroup Inc. said in a recent report. The Centre for Alternative Finance at the University of Cambridge estimates it uses more electricity globally in a year than the Netherlands.“It’s certainly not what we were expecting,” Police Sergeant Jennifer Griffin, said in a statement Friday. “It had all the hallmarks of a cannabis cultivation set-up.”The police said they hadn’t yet made any arrests but believed thousands of pounds worth of power had been taken from the grid.“Mining for cryptocurrency is not itself illegal but clearly abstracting electricity from the mains supply to power it is,” Griffin said. It is just the second illegal mining operation the local force have discovered in the region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-cops-stumble-on-bitcoin-mine-while-hunting-for-cannabis-farm-101622214007158.html
28-05-2021||World||With 8 new ones, 35 features on Moon now have Chinese names||At least eight features on the Moon near the landing area of the Chinese spacecraft Chang’e-5 were named after Chinese scientists and places earlier this month.The Paris-based International Astronomical Union (IAU) said that it had approved eight Chinese names for features on the Moon in the vicinity of Chang’e-5’s landing site.The total number of lunar features, which now have Chinese names is 35.The new names are Mons Hua, Mons Heng, Pei Xiu, Shen Kuo, Liu Hui, Song Yingxing, Statio Tianchun and Xu Guanqui. The names are of Chinese mathematicians, astronomers, cartographers, mountains, and a constellation.“Planetary nomenclature, like terrestrial nomenclature, is used to uniquely identify a feature on the surface of a planet or satellite so that the feature can be easily located, described, and discussed,” the IAU says.According to Chinese state media, lunar entities are named in four categories: deceased outstanding scientists, existing place names on Earth, Latin words that describe weather or other abstract concepts, and then the landing sites, which can be named however the team behind the mission wants.“China first got approval for the names of lunar locations in August, 2010. Three craters on the surface were named after Chinese scientists Cai Lun, who invented the technique of paper making; Bi Sheng, who invented movable-type printing; and Zhang Yuzhe, considered the father of modern Chinese astronomy,” CGTN, China’s state-run English channel, reported earlier.The Chang’e-5 spacecraft successfully landed on the near side of the Moon in December, 2020.China became the second country after the US in more than 50 years to plant its flag on the Moon following the landing of the spacecraft.Later that month, on December 17, the return capsule of China’s Chang’e-5 probe touched down on Earth, bringing back the country’s first samples collected from the moon, as well as the world’s freshest lunar samples in over 40 years, Chinese state media reported.Five Chinese names for lunar features were approved by the IAU in 2019 after the Chang’e-4 probe became the first spacecraft to land on the dark side of the Moon.The IAU, which announced the names, describes itself an international astronomical organisation that brings together more than 13,500 professional astronomers from more than 100 countries.“The IAU also serves as the internationally recognised authority for assigning designations to celestial bodies and the surface features on them,” it states on its website.Names successfully reviewed by a task group are submitted by the task group chair to the Working Group for Planetary System Nomenclature (WGPSN).After a successful review by the members of the WGPSN, names are considered approved as official IAU nomenclature, and can be used on maps and in publications.Approved names are then entered into the Gazetteer of Planetary Nomenclature, which is maintained by the US-based USGS Astrogeology Science Centre, and posted on its website, the IAU stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/with-8-new-ones-35-features-on-moon-now-have-chinese-names-101622213963302.html
28-05-2021||World||EU regulator endorses Pfizer-BioNTech Covid-19 vaccine for children as young as 12||Europe's medicines regulator on Friday backed the use of Pfizer's Cov-19 vaccine for children as young as 12, paving way for a broader roll-out in the region after similar clearances in the United States and Canada.The European Medicines Agency's endorsement comes weeks after it began evaluating extending use of the vaccine, developed with Germany's BioNTech, to include 12- to 15-year-olds. It is already being used in the European Union for those aged 16 and older.The EMA said two doses were required in the 12-15 age group and should be administered with an interval of at least three weeks. It is now up to individual EU states to decide if and when to offer the vaccine to teenagers, it added.Inoculating children and young people is considered a critical step toward reaching "herd immunity" and taming the pandemic.However, giving vaccines to younger people in affluent countries while many parts of the world await doses for older and more vulnerable people has raised concerns.Pfizer and BioNTech in March unveiled trial data showing their vaccine offered 100% protection against the infectious disease in a trial with 2,260 adolescents aged 12 to 15. It was also well tolerated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/eu-regulator-endorses-pfizer-biontech-covid-19-vaccine-for-children-as-young-as-12-101622213083288.html
28-05-2021||World||'Worried' about new more transmissible Covid-19 variants: WHO Europe director||The World Health Organization's director for Europe said Friday he was worried about the higher level of contagiousness of the Indian and British variants of the novel coronavirus."We know for example that the B.1617 (Indian variant) is more transmissible than the B.117 (British variant), which already was more transmissible than the previous strain," WHO Europe director Hans Kluge told AFP in an interview.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/worried-about-new-more-transmissible-covid-19-variants-who-europe-director-101622212035645.html
28-05-2021||World||Turkey President Erdogan inaugurates major new mosque in heart of Istanbul||President Tayyip Erdogan inaugurated an imposing new mosque in Istanbul on Friday, fulfilling a decades-old goal and stamping a religious identity on the landmark Taksim Square in the heart of Turkey's largest city.The Taksim mosque and its 30-metre high dome loom symbolically over a monument to the foundation of the Turkish republic by Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, whose staunchly secular legacy has been eroded by nearly two decades of Erdogan's rule.After performing Friday prayers with thousands of worshippers, Erdogan said completion of the mosque marked the culmination of a dream for Turks, and that the call to prayer would be heard there "until the end of time".Erdogan told crowds outside the mosque that before building work started four years ago there was not even a prayer room at the site. "Worshippers were trying to pray here on top of newspapers, literally like a hen-house," he said.Construction of the mosque began in February 2017 in a project championed by Erdogan, a devout Muslim, and his Islamist-rooted AK Party, but which was beset for decades by court battles and public debate.Officials on Friday shared on Twitter a video showing Erdogan in 1994, the year he became Istanbul mayor, pointing from the top of a building towards the area where he said he would build the mosque, the exact spot where it now stands.It is one of many construction projects with which Erdogan has left his mark on Turkey, including a huge hilltop mosque overlooking the Asian side of Istanbul. Last year he reconverted into a mosque the city's Haghia Sophia, for centuries the world's largest church before being turned into a mosque and museum in turn.Supporters of the Taksim project argued there were not enough Muslim places of worship close to one of the city’s busiest hubs. Opponents saw it as a bid to impose a religious tone on the square, featuring a cultural centre dedicated to Ataturk which was demolished and is being rebuilt.The mosque complex, with two towering minarets, will be able to host as many as 4,000 worshippers and includes an exhibition hall, a library, car park and soup kitchen, state-owned Anadolu news agency said.Pro-government newspapers hailed the new mosque. Aksam's headline mocked critics who fear creeping religiosity: "It looks great. A mosque was built in Taksim and neither has sharia law come, nor has the republic collapsed," it said.The inauguration also coincides with the date when protests began just 100 metres away in Gezi Park, before growing into massive protests against Erdogan's government which spread across Turkey in June 2013.The Gezi protests began on May 28, 2013 after demolition work began in one corner of the park the previous evening, knocking down a wall and some trees, drawing a small group of protesters who camped out at the site.The anniversary of the protests is generally marked on May 31, when the protests escalated. In June of that year, hundreds of thousands of people took to the streets in demonstrations against a plan to build a replica Ottoman barracks on Gezi Park.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/turkey-president-erdogan-inaugurates-major-new-mosque-in-heart-of-istanbul-101622208873472.html
28-05-2021||World||US taking 'very close look' at vaccine passports for travel||Homeland Security Secretary Alejandro Mayorkas says the government is taking “a very close look” at the possibility of vaccine passports for travel into and out of the United States.As head of the Department of Homeland Security, Mayorkas oversees the Transportation Security Administration, which safeguards the nation’s transportation systems.Mayorkas told ABC on Friday that one of his guiding principles throughout the coronavirus pandemic has been “the value of diversity, equity and inclusion and making sure that any passport that we provide for vaccinations is accessible to all and that no one is disenfranchised.”The European Union, some Asian governments and the airline industry are scrambling to develop Covid-19 vaccine passports to help kickstart international travel. They’re working on systems that would allow travelers to use mobile phone apps to prove they’ve been vaccinated, helping them avoid quarantine requirements at their destinations.Mayorkas says the underlying point is: “Everyone should get vaccinated.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-taking-very-close-look-at-vaccine-passports-for-travel-101622208882854.html
28-05-2021||World||Pak Hindu lawmaker wants religious minorities to be termed as 'non-Muslims'||A Hindu lawmaker in Pakistan has submitted a bill in the lower house of Parliament seeking that religious minorities in the country be constitutionally referred to as 'non-Muslims' to end the discrimination and establish equality and justice for every citizen.Keeso Mal Kheeal Das, a member of the National Assembly from the Opposition Pakistan Muslim League-Nawaz (PML-N) party, approached the National Assembly with a private member bill under rule 118 of the Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in the National Assembly, 2007.Called as the Constitution Amendment Act, 2021, the bill aims to end discrimination against Pakistani non-Muslims who have been also referred in the constitution as minorities.He suggested that the bill should be adopted and brought into effect immediately.The government has not opposed the bill so far and the matter has been referred to the relevant standing committee. After it is vetted by a bipartisan committee of the house, it will be presented for voting.Das is of the view that the inaccurate reference as minorities gives the impression of being second-class citizens.“It is against the spirit of the Constitution, 1973, to discriminate against a large number of population by declaring them a minority, when the sacrifices of that population are remarkable in every sphere of life for the prosperity, growth and bright future of the country,” Das said in the bill.“The word ‘Minority’ is used four times (in the constitution) while the word ‘non-Muslims’ is used 15 times, which reflects the intent of the makers of the Constitution. Therefore, the anomaly shall be omitted by substituting the word minority with the word non-Muslims,” he said.He said that the constitutional amendment will be a constructive effort to establish equality and justice for every citizen to build Pakistan as a home for everyone.Pakistan is a predominantly a Muslim country but non-Muslims make more than 3.5 per cent of its about 220 million population.Hindus form the biggest minority community in Pakistan.According to official estimates, 75 lakh Hindus live in Pakistan. However, according to the community, over 90 lakh Hindus are living in the country.The majority of Pakistan's Hindu population is settled in Sindh province where they share culture, traditions and language with Muslim residents. They often complain of harassment by the extremists.Other minority communities include Christians, Ahmadis, Baha'is, Sikhs, Parsis and Buddhists.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pakistans-hindu-lawmaker-wants-religious-minorities-to-termed-nonmuslims-101622206828298.html
28-05-2021||World||Japan to allow Myanmar residents to extend stay as 'emergency measure'||Japan will allow residents from Myanmar to stay an additional six months as an emergency measure as a violent military-led crackdown continues in the Southeast Asian country, officials said Friday.The measure covers 35,045 Myanmar nationals living in Japan, including 13,963 working under a government-sponsored internship program, according to the Immigration Services Agency.Those aiming to obtain “specified skilled worker” status can extend their stay up to a year, it said. The new category was created in 2019 as Japan increasingly relies on foreign workers to make up for its aging and declining workforce.The government also said two Myanmar diplomats in Tokyo who were dismissed by their country’s military junta for supporting the anti-coup movement can keep their diplomatic visas issued by the ousted government of Aung San Suu Kyi.Also Friday, the UN special envoy for Myanmar, Christine Schraner Burgener, met with Japanese Foreign Minister Toshimitsu Motegi and discussed support for an effort by the Association of Southeast Asian Nations to hold a dialogue of all stakeholders on stopping the violence in Myanmar.Burgener said she has been in consultation with all parties and ASEAN leaders and hopes to be able to give more details in two to three weeks.The Feb. 1 coup reversed years of progress toward democracy in Myanmar after five decades of harsh military rule. It was met with widespread popular opposition that the military has tried to silence through force, including killing protesters and imprisoning activists and journalists.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/japan-to-allow-myanmar-residents-to-extend-stay-as-emergency-measure-101622206455850.html
28-05-2021||World||Nasa’s Ingenuity helicopter survives wild flight after a navigation error. Here’s what happened||Nasa’s Ingenuity helicopter managed to land safely on the Martian surface after a navigation timing error sent it on a wild sixth flight. The Jet Propulsion Laboratory (JPL) on Thursday said that approximately 54 seconds into the flight, a glitch occurred in the pipeline of the images that were being delivered by the navigational camera mounted on the experimental helicopter, resulting in unexpected motion. But the helicopter stopped oscillating in the final moments of the flight, levelled its attitude and touched down at the speed of design.The National Aeronautics and Space Administration shared a sequence of images, taken by the navigation camera aboard the Ingenuity Mars helicopter, that depicted the last 29 seconds of the rotorcraft’s sixth flight.Håvard Grip, the chief pilot of Ingenuity Mars Helicopter at JPL, later explained the in-flight anomaly. In a blog post, Grip said that during a flight, Ingenuity keeps track of its motion using an onboard inertial measurement unit (IMU), which measures the helicopter’s accelerations and rotational rates. The helicopter’s position, velocity, and attitude are estimated by integrating the information gathered over time.Also Read | Nasa captures sound of chopper blades on MarsHowever, the navigation system doesn’t rely on the IMU alone since the errors would accumulate over time, and the helicopter would eventually lose its way. In order to maintain better accuracy, Ingenuity’s downward-looking navigation camera takes 30 pictures a second of the Martian surface and immediately feeds them into the helicopter’s navigation system.Every time the navigation system receives an image, it examines the timestamp to determine when the image was taken. The navigation algorithm then makes a prediction about what the camera should have been seeing at that particular point in time and at where those features actually appear in the image.“The navigation algorithm uses the difference between the predicted and actual locations of these features to correct its estimates of position, velocity, and attitude,” wrote Grip.Just keep flying 🚁#MarsHelicopter completed its 6th flight. Despite unexpected motion from an image processing issue, Ingenuity muscled through the final ~65 meters of its 215-meter journey, landed safely & is ready to fly again. The chief pilot explains https://t.co/533hn7qixk pic.twitter.com/IHkkjXaHDdThe glitch in the pipeline of images caused a single image to be lost, which resulted in all later navigation images being delivered with inaccurate timestamps. The navigation algorithm started performing a correction based on the navigation image and operated on the basis of incorrect information about when the image was taken.“The resulting inconsistencies significantly degraded the information used to fly the helicopter, leading to estimates being constantly ‘corrected’ to account for phantom errors. Large oscillations ensued,” the chief pilot added.Despite the anomaly, a built-in system to provide an extra margin for stability “came to the rescue” and Ingenuity landed safely on the surface within approximately 16 feet of the intended touch down location, said Grip.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/nasas-ingenuity-helicopter-survives-wild-flight-after-a-navigation-error-101622206211797.html
28-05-2021||World||China’s internet firms’ power consumption set to increase by 289% by 2035||China’s computer data centres and rapidly expanding 5G stations could use four times more electricity by 2035, putting Beijing’s carbon neutral goals under stress, a new report by environment group Greenpeace said on Friday.Electricity use by data centres and 5G base stations in China will grow by an estimated 289% between 2020 and 2035, the report said.The huge jump in power consumption would mean more carbon emissions as 61% of China’s electricity generation is from coal, the report added.According to Greenpeace data, the combined electricity consumption by data centres and 5G base stations in China stood at more than 200 billion kilowatt-hours (kWh) in 2020. If current trends continue, this is expected to rise to 782 billion kWh by 2035, the group said, which means the sector will be one of the fastest growing sources of climate-warming carbon dioxide emissions.This growth could be stopped if the Chinese government invests in clean energy.“Explosive growth in digital infrastructure does not need to mean growth in emissions. Technology companies have the potential to catalyse real emissions reductions via investment in distributed renewables projects and direct purchase of wind and solar energy, among other strategies,” Greenpeace climate and energy campaigner Ye Ruiqi said.Only two major data centre operators - Chindata Group and AtHub - have pledged to source all energy from renewable sources by 2030.“But some of the industry’s biggest players, including Alibaba and GDS, have yet to issue 100% renewable energy or carbon neutrality commitments,” Ye said.This could depress China’s ambitious climate plans.Chinese President Xi Jinping has pledged to bring the country’s climate-warming emissions to a peak before 2030 and achieve carbon neutrality by 2060, committing the country to an accelerated transition to renewable energy.The report, however, said that carbon emissions from China’s internet industry are projected to continue to rise through 2035, long after its targeted 2030 national emissions peak, creating complications for the country’s carbon neutrality commitments.“By 2035, emissions from digital infrastructure in China are forecast to reach 310 million tonnes, more than three times (southern Chinese province) Guangzhou’s total carbon emissions in 2019. By contrast, sectors such as steel, non-ferrous metal, and cement are expected to peak emissions around 2025,” the report added.The 5G sector too is one of the fastest growing sources of internet sector emissions in China. “Power consumption from 5G in China is on track to skyrocket 488% by 2035, reaching 297 billion kWh by 2035, roughly equivalent to (southwestern China’s) Sichuan’s total electricity consumption in 2020.”“Internet companies in China must commit to achieve 100% renewable energy and carbon neutrality across the supply chain by 2030. At the same time, policymakers can help enable this transition by mandating the use of 100% renewable energy and providing financial incentives for companies to shift to wind and solar,” Ye said.“Digital technology should be a solution to the climate crisis, not a growing source of emissions,” Ye added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/chinas-internet-firms-power-consumption-set-to-increase-by-289-by-2035-101622204842292.html
28-05-2021||World||UK approves single shot Johnson & Johnson Covid vaccine||Britain on Friday approved the use of the single shot Johnson & Johnson coronavirus vaccine, the Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) announced."This is a further boost to the UK's hugely successful vaccination programme, which has already saved over 13,000 lives, and means that we now have four safe and effective vaccines approved to help protect people from this awful virus," said Health Secretary Matt Hancock.The government hopes the single-dose jab "will play an important role in the months to come", he added, as young people come forward for their vaccinations amid concern over the rise of the so-called Indian variant.Britain has ordered 20 million doses of the vaccine.The European Medicines Agency said in April that a warning about unusual blood clots with low blood platelet count should be added to its product information following cases in the United States.The vaccine was found to be 72 percent effective in preventing moderate to severe coronavirus infection, according to a US trial.Britain has administered more than 62 million shots so far, mainly using the Pfizer and AstraZeneca vaccines. It has also approved the use of the Moderna vaccine.After months of falling cases, infections have started to rise again due to the emergence of the Indian variant, which has put in doubt plans for a full reopening of the country on June 21.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-approves-single-shot-johnson-johnson-covid-vaccine-101622203331875.html
28-05-2021||World||Syria's Bashar al-Assad wins a fourth term in a predictable landslide||Syrian President Bashar Assad was re-elected in a landslide, officials said Thursday, ushering in a fourth seven-year term in the war-torn country following an election described as illegitimate and a sham by the West and his opposition.Assad's win was not in doubt, in an election where officials said 18 million were eligible to vote. But in the country ravaged by the 10-year-old conflict, areas controlled by rebels or Kurdish-led troops did not hold the vote.At least 8 million, mostly displaced, live in those areas in northwest and northeast Syria. Over 5 million refugees — mostly living in neighbouring countries — have largely refrained from casting their ballots.US and European officials have also questioned the legitimacy of the election, saying it violates UN resolutions in place to resolve the conflict, lacks any international monitoring, and is unrepresentative of all Syrians.Also Read | Syria loses voting rights at global chemical watchdog for poison gas use in civil warSyria's parliament speaker, Hammoud Sabbagh, announced the final results from Wednesday's vote. He said Assad garnered 95.1 per cent of the votes. He said turnout stood at 78.6 per cent of the voters, in an election that lasted for 17 hours on Wednesday with no independent monitors.Assad was facing symbolic competition from two candidates— a former minister and a former opposition figure.Assad's victory comes as the country is still devastated by the conflict. Fighting has subsided but the war is not over. An economic crisis is getting worse in a country where over 80% of the population lives below the poverty line and the local currency is in a free fall.Assad, close associates and government officials are facing widening Western sanctions, added to already existing ones that have escalated as the war unfolded. European and US governments blame Assad and his aides most of the war's atrocities.Damascus erupted in celebrations, with gunfire and fireworks lighting the night sky.Thousands gathered in major squares in Damascus, and the coastal city of Tartus, dancing while waving flags and pictures of Assad. They chanted: “With our soul, blood, we defend you Bashar,” and “We only choose three: God, Syria and Bashar.”A large stage was set in the capital's Omayyad Square, with speakers blaring national songs. One singer appeared on a stage set up in a Tartus square, dressed in the flag of Syria. Almost no one was wearing a face mask, though Syria is facing a surge of coronavirus cases.The election is likely to offer little change to conditions in Syria. While Assad and his allies, Russia and Iran, may be seeking a new seal of legitimacy for the president in office since 2000, his re-election is likely to deepen the rift with the West, driving him closer to Russian and Iranian backers as well as China.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/syrias-bashar-al-assad-wins-a-fourth-term-in-a-predictable-landslide-101622192264608.html
28-05-2021||World||Pregnant woman gets stuck on 18-foot high wall while trying to enter US; video surfaces||A 23-year-old pregnant woman got stuck atop a steel wall at the US-Mexico border in downtown El Paso and was eventually rescued by firefighters. According to local media reports, the Honduran woman was trying to jump the border fence between El Paso and Ciudad Juarez. While she managed to scale up the 18-foot high wall, she was unable to climb down.The US customs and border protection (CBP), the agency in charge of securing American borders and facilitating lawful international and trade, said that the woman was taken to University Medical Center for a medical evaluation and was found in good health, per reports. She was immediately processed and expelled the same day to Mexico under Title 42, which refers to the use of a section of US public health law to prohibit people from entering the country who potentially pose a health risk.A video of the rescue effort surfaced online in which the CBP can be seen helping her down the border fence.A pregnant woman got stuck while trying to jump the border fence between El Paso and Ciudad Juarez. CBP helped her down and was immediately expelled to Mexico under Title 42. pic.twitter.com/HWGlaZ4jO9Also Read | US curbs new flights from Mexico amid drop in aviation safety ratingIn March 2020, the department of health and human services (HHS) issued an emergency regulation to implement Section 265 of US Code Title 42. The implementation allowed the director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) to prohibit those from entering the US when the director believes that “there is serious danger of the introduction of [a communicable] disease into the United States.”The then-CDC director, Robert R Redfield, was quick to rely on the regulation and issued an order suspending the “introduction” of certain individuals who have been in “Coronavirus Impacted Areas.” The use of Title 42 to expel asylum seekers to their country of last transit has been controversial.Immigration Impact, a project of the American Immigration Council, recently carried an article titled ‘It’s Time to End Title 42’, written by Rebekah Wolf, criticising the use of Trump-era policy to restrict asylum seekers from accessing the US immigration system. Wolf accused the Trump administration of misusing an outdated public health law to “‘trump’ the United States’ own laws designed to protect asylum seekers.”“With the country’s evolving knowledge of how Covid-19 is spread, no legitimate public health justification for its continuation, and the wide range of alternatives to detention that are available, Title 42 should be ended immediately,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pregnant-woman-gets-stuck-on-18-foot-high-wall-while-trying-to-enter-us-rescued-101622198337688.html
28-05-2021||World||'Political game': China on US Prez Biden's order to probe into Covid-19 origins||In a sharp rebuke to the United States, China has lamented US President Joe Biden's order to review the origins of Covid-19 as a "political game and an attempt to shift the blame on others"."Virus origins is a complex scientific question. This time, the United States is trying to let intelligence services draw scientific conclusions. This only shows that the US is not interested in the truth, it does not want any scientific research, this is just a political game, an attempt to shift the blame on others," Chinese spokesperson Zhao Lijian said at a briefing on Friday.US President Biden on Wednesday said he has asked the US intelligence community to "redouble their efforts" to come to a conclusion on the origins of Covid-19 and report back to him within 90 days, Sputnik reported.This comes amid growing calls for a fuller probe on whether the Covid-19 virus may have escaped from a Wuhan lab.In response, the Chinese Embassy in the US issued a statement on Thursday. Without naming any country, a spokesperson said "some people have played the old trick of political hype on the origin tracing of Covid-19 in the world"."Since the outbreak of Covid-19 last year, some political forces have been fixated on political manipulation and blame game," the statement said.A few days back, an explosive report by Wall Street Journal had stated that three researchers from China's Wuhan Institute of Virology sought hospital care after they fell ill in November 2019, a month before Beijing reported the first patient with Covid-like symptoms."The US government has reason to believe that several researchers inside the WIV became sick in autumn 2019, before the first identified case of the outbreak, with symptoms consistent with both Covid-19 and common seasonal illnesses," the report read, fueling debate of the lab leak theory.Meanwhile, addressing the World Health Organization's main annual meeting of member states, the United States and other countries called on Tuesday for a more in-depth investigation of the pandemic origins after an international mission to China earlier this year proved inconclusive.Australia, Japan and Portugal were among other countries to call for more progress on the investigation, while the British representative urged for any probe to be "timely, expert-driven and grounded in robust science".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/political-game-china-on-us-prez-biden-s-order-to-probe-into-covid-19-origins-101622195785635.html
28-05-2021||World||Pak 'threatens' Hindu American body for exposing 1971 genocide in Bangladesh||A prominent Hindu American advocacy group alleged on Thursday that it has been threatened by Pakistan for recently launching a website exposing the role of the Pakistan Army in the 1971 genocide in Bangladesh.The Hindu American Foundation (HAF) said it has received a communication from Pakistan's Telecommunication Authority (PTA) Web Analysis Division, demanding that it take down the "Bengali Hindu Genocide" web page, which captures a variety of perspectives on the genocidal actions of then West Pakistan's (now modern Pakistan) military, "within (24) hours".The letter also states that the government of Pakistan will "remove or block" access to HAF's "Bengali Hindu Genocide" web page in Pakistan. This nearly-10-month genocidal campaign left two-three million people dead, 200,000-400,000 women raped and more than 10 million people displaced -- a majority of whom were Hindus, the HAF said in a statement."Your website i.e https://www.hinduamerican.org/1971-bangladesh-genocide is involved in dissemination of content with intent to ridicule, defame the Armed Forces of Pakistan in order to provoke anti-state sentiments, cause disharmony, feelings of enmity among masses at large, which is prejudicial to the integrity, sovereignty and security of Pakistan," said the communication from Pakistan.The HAF has refused to take down the site."The government of Pakistan's feeble attempt to threaten and intimidate a respected American non-profit organisation is just the latest example of its anti-American, anti-Hindu acts," stated Deepali Kulkarni, HAF director of human rights."The Islamic Republic of Pakistan has a proven track record of killing, forcibly converting or driving out Hindus, Christians, Ahmaddiya Muslims and other religious minorities in Pakistan, and now it appears that it is going after these same religious minorities in other countries, too," Kulkarni said.The HAF said its website has been blocked for viewers in Pakistan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pak-threatens-hindu-american-body-for-exposing-1971-genocide-in-bangladesh-101622192580509.html
28-05-2021||World||India's 'terrible' Covid-19 surge severely impacted global vaccine supply: Covax||The “terrible" surge of the coronavirus cases in India has severely impacted Covax’s vaccine supply in the second quarter of this year to the extent that there will be a shortfall of 190 million doses by the end of June, according to a joint statement by the WHO, UNICEF, GAVI and CEPI.The joint statement was issued on Thursday by Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations (CEPI) CEO Dr Richard Hatchett, Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance CEO Dr Seth Berkley, World Health Organization (WHO) Director-General Dr Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus and UNICEF Executive Director Henrietta Fore.“Countries that are advanced in their vaccination programmes are seeing cases of Covid-19 decline, hospitalisations decrease and early signs of some kind of normality resume. However, the global picture is far more concerning,” the statement said.Giving a call to action to equip Covax to deliver 2 billion doses in 2021, the statement said, “we are seeing the traumatic effects of the terrible surge of Covid-19 in South Asia – a surge which has also severely impacted global vaccine supplies.”It added that Covax has proven it works as the global mechanism for equitable access to Covid-19 vaccines, having delivered over 70 million doses to 126 countries and economies around the world since February – from remote islands to conflict settings – managing the largest and most complex rollout of vaccines in history. Over 35 countries received their first Covid-19 vaccine doses thanks to Covax.“However, the terrible surge of the virus in India has had a severe impact on Covax’s supply in the second quarter of this year, to the point where, by the end of June we will face a shortfall of 190 million doses,” the joint statement said.It said even though Covax will have larger volumes available later in the year through the deals it has already secured with several manufacturers, it warned that “if we do not address the current, urgent shortfall, the consequences could be catastrophic.”It said the pandemic has just taken a frightening new turn, as a deadly surge of cases rages across South Asia and other hotspots.The global agencies called on nations to share doses “now”, saying the United States and Europe have collectively pledged to share 180 million doses.“But we still need more, we need them to go through Covax, and we need them to start moving in early June. At least one billion doses could be shared by wealthy countries in 2021.“Covax’s need for doses is greatest right now. Countries with higher coverage rates, which are due to receive doses soon, should swap their places in supply queues with Covax so that doses can be equitably distributed as quickly as possible,” it said.The Serum Institute of India (SII), the world’s largest vaccine manufacturer, is the key supplier of AstraZeneca doses to Covax.According to the agreement between GAVI and SII, which included funding to support an increase in manufacturing capacity, SII is contracted to provide Covax with the SII-licensed and manufactured AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine (known as Covishield) to 64 lower-income economies participating in the Gavi Covax AMC (including India), alongside its commitments to the Government of India.However, supply of vaccines from SII to Covax has been impacted as the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic ravages India.Last week, Ghebreyesus had said that once the devastating outbreak in India recedes, “we also need the Serum Institute of India to get back on track and catch up on its delivery commitments to Covax.”UNICEF had also noted with concern that the devastating surge in coronavirus cases in India has impacted vaccine supplies to the Covax facility.“Among the global consequences of the situation in India, a global hub for vaccine production, is a severe reduction in vaccines available to Covax. Soaring domestic demand has meant that 140 million doses intended for distribution to low-and-middle-income countries through the end of May cannot be accessed by Covax. Another 50 million doses are likely to be missed in June,” Fore had said in a statement last week.A note to editors in the UNICEF statement had said that “shortfall numbers are based on delays related to shipments from the Serum Institute of India (SII) only.” Other delays related to the original Covax delivery schedule are expected to be made up by the end of June. “There is currently no timetable to resolve SII-related delays”, the note said.The Covax facility is slated to deliver its 65 millionth dose in the coming days when it should have been at least its 170 millionth.Covaxis the only global initiative that is working with governments and manufacturers to ensure COVID-19 vaccines are available worldwide to both higher-income and lower-income countries.UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres, speaking at a virtual event by the Ikea Foundation, Purpose and the UN, expressed concern that the “recent surges in South Asia and elsewhere show that Covid-19 is still very much with us.“More than 80,000 people died in the past week alone. We are in a war against this virus. To achieve victory, we need to put our economies and societies on a war footing. We need a true global vaccination plan,” he said.He encouraged all companies, particularly those with global representation, to look beyond headquarters and focus on the most vulnerable countries and communities, from South Asia to sub-Saharan Africa.According to Johns Hopkins University Covid-19 tracker, more than 168,769,000 confirmed cases have been reported from across the world while the deadly disease has claimed the lives of over 3,507,000 people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/indias-terrible-covid-19-surge-severely-impacted-supply-covax-statement-101622191986447.html
28-05-2021||World||South Africa starts vaccination for elderly as Covid-19 surge looms||Spry and gray-haired, many dressed in their Sunday best or colorful African prints — and all sporting masks — dozens of South Africans aged 60 and over gathered at a government health clinic outside Johannesburg to get their Covid-19 shots.Some looked at vaccine notifications on their mobile phones, others clutched pieces of paper, as the line moved along at a good pace. Eight at a time, they were ushered into a tent where they took seats distanced from each other.“You are about to receive a vaccine to protect against Covid-19. It is the Pfizer vaccine and it requires two doses,” said a nurse, speaking the Zulu language to the group at the Orange Farm township clinic, about 30 miles (45 kilometers) south of Johannesburg. She described what they should do about possible side effects.“Amen,” she said in closing, and the vaccine recipients murmured the same response, as if in church.South Africa is in a race against time to vaccinate as many people as possible amid signs the virus may be surging again with the approach of winter in the Southern Hemisphere, when people spend more time indoors, typically allowing for more spread of disease. It is also a critical front in the fight against the virus in Africa, with South Africa recording 40% of the continent's Covid-19 deaths.Since January, South Africa has vaccinated nearly 500,000 of its 1.2 million health care workers and now is adding its older citizens to the campaign. In the past two weeks nearly 200,000 have received the Pfizer jabs with instructions to come back in six weeks to get their second dose.“I am getting the vaccine because I want to be alive,” 76-year-old Elizabeth Mokwena said. “I know it's the best thing for me to do against this Covid.”After a plateau of the disease that lasted a few months, South Africa's new cases, hospitalizations and deaths are trending up. The seven-day rolling average of daily new cases has risen over the past two weeks from 3.33 per 100,000 people on May 12 to 3.97 per 100,000 on Wednesday, according to Johns Hopkins University. The seven-day rolling average of deaths is also on the rise: from 0.10 deaths per 100,000 people to 0.11 per 100,000 over the same period.The increase may seem small, but experts warn it may be the start of a resurgence as the country enters the colder winter months, which start in June.The national coronavirus task force met this week and President Cyril Ramaphosa’s government is pondering the possibility of re-imposing restrictions, such as reducing the hours that liquor can be sold and limiting the number of people at gatherings.South Africa has by far the heaviest burden of the disease in Africa. With more than 1.6 million confirmed cases, including 55,976 deaths, the country has more than 30% of the cases and 40% of the deaths recorded by all of Africa's 54 countries, according to the Africa Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. The continent of 1.3 billion people has reported 4.7 million cases, including 129,000 deaths, according to the Africa CDC.South Africa has set a goal of vaccinating 5 million seniors by the end of June, so the new campaign's slow start must quickly ramp up speed.“We're under pressure to reach higher levels of vaccination,” Mosa Moshabela, professor of public health at the University of KwaZulu-Natal, told The Associated Press.“New vaccination centers are opening every day and the numbers being given shots should quickly go from 20,000 elderly per day to 50,000 and then 100,000 per day," he said. “By June we should reach 200,000 per day. We need to have that kind of volume to get close to vaccinating 5 million elderly by the end of June.”South Africa's overall goal is to vaccinate 67% of its 60 million people by February. To achieve that it has purchased 30 million Pfizer doses, of which 1.3 million have been delivered so far and 4.5 million are expected by the end of June.The country has also ordered 31 million doses of the Johnson & Johnson vaccine, which have not yet arrived. An initial delivery of 500,000 doses was used to vaccinate health care workers.Both the J&J and Pfizer vaccines are effective against the Covid-19 variant dominant in South Africa, according to studies. Earlier this year South Africa received 1 million doses of the AstraZeneca vaccine from the United Nations-backed COVAX initiative but scrapped their use because a preliminary, small study showed it did not give effective protection against the variant.“It was a good move for South Africa to purchase the Pfizer and J&J vaccines on its own,” said Moshabela, who is also acting deputy vice chancellor for research and innovation at the University of KwaZulu-Natal. “Many other African countries are now stuck because COVAX deliveries of the (AstraZeneca) vaccines from India have been delayed.”“We are off to a slow start, but it will speed up and we will have an adequate supply of vaccines. It’s a good thing we purchased those directly,” he said.The rest of Africa's reliance on COVAX for supplies of AstraZeneca vaccine has led to problems now that India, beset by a deadly surge, has halted exports of the shots until it vaccinates an adequate amount of its 1.4 billion people.The World Health Organization announced Thursday that Africa needs at least 20 million AstraZeneca doses in the next six weeks to give second shots to all those who have received a first dose.In addition, another 200 million doses of approved vaccines are needed to enable the continent to vaccinate 10% of its population by September, WHO said.So far just 28 million doses of vaccines have been administered in Africa, representing less than 2% of the continent's population. Globally, 1.5 billion Covid-19 vaccine doses have been administered.“Africa needs vaccines now. Any pause in our vaccination campaigns will lead to lost lives and lost hope,” Dr Matshidiso Moeti, WHO Regional Director for Africa, said Thursday.“It’s too soon to tell if Africa is on the cusp of a third wave. However, we know that cases are rising, and the clock is ticking so we urgently appeal to countries that have vaccinated their high-risk groups to speed up the dose-sharing to fully protect the most vulnerable people.”At the Orange Farm clinic in South Africa, where nearly 200 people were vaccinated daily this week, Freedman Zikhali said he was pleased to have gotten his first dose.“Getting this vaccine was the right thing to do," the 76-year-old said in the Zulu language.“I’d ask myself while watching TV, ‘Why haven’t I received the vaccine while other people around the world are being vaccinated?' So I think what I have done here is the right thing to do.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/south-africa-starts-vaccination-for-elderly-as-covid-19-surge-looms-101622192432569.html
28-05-2021||World||Covid-19: Australia's Victoria enters 7-day lockdown||Australia’s second most populous state of Victoria on Friday entered a week-long lockdown over concerns about a "highly infectious" variant of COVID-19 first detected in India.The new restrictions were imposed after Melbourne's north recorded 30 new coronavirus cases this week, authorities said.There are now over 15,000 primary and secondary contacts who have been asked to isolate after the latest outbreak which ended over 80 days without a known case of transmission in the state.Genomic testing has confirmed the outbreak originated from a Wollert man who was infected weeks ago while staying in South Australia's hotel quarantine programme.Authorities on Friday revealed the fifth recorded case in the cluster, which was probably the source of infection for the other 29, had likely been in the community while infectious for around 11 days.The case may have been symptomatic around May 13, but did not get tested until they were identified as a close contact of the first recorded case in the series on Monday.In a press conference, state's Chief Health Officer Brett Sutton said: "We have to see how the days ahead play out."The state government is expanding the vaccine eligibility to include anyone aged between 40 and 49.Victorians can leave their home in five conditions: care and caregiving, exercise, work and buying groceries and getting vaccinated.A record single-day number of 124,000 COVID-19 vaccine doses were administered in Australia over the past 24 hours including over 30,400 Victorians who got vaccinated on Thursday alone.Genome sequencing has confirmed the COVID-19 cases in the state are from the variant that was first detected in India."Our public health experts' primary concern is just how fast this variant is moving," Victoria's Acting Premier James Merlino said on Thursday. "We've seen overseas how difficult that movement can be to control," he said.Expressing concern over how fast the virus was spreading, Merlino said the time between people catching the virus and passing it on was "tighter than ever".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid19-australia-s-victoria-enters-7-day-lockdown-101622191570556.html
28-05-2021||World||Japan health ministry panel approves Pfizer Covid vaccine for 12 yrs and above||A Japanese health ministry panel approved the use of Pfizer Inc's Covid-19 vaccine for those aged 12 and above, a ministry official said on Friday.The move, which lowers the threshold from 16, follows approvals in the United States and other nations this month for the vaccine to be used for adolescents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/japan-health-ministry-panel-approves-pfizer-covid-vaccine-for-12-yrs-and-above-101622190991577.html
28-05-2021||World||India abstains from voting on UNHRC resolution to probe alleged violations and crimes in Gaza conflict||India was among 14 countries that abstained from voting on a resolution at the UN Human Rights Council (UNHRC) to launch an investigation into alleged violations and crimes during the 11-day conflict between Israel and Hamas in Gaza.The resolution was adopted as 24 countries voted in favour of it while nine opposed it at the end of an all-day special session of the 47-member UN body at its headquarters in Geneva on Thursday.According to official details, India abstained from voting together with 13 other member nations of the grouping. China and Russia were among those voting in favour."The Human Rights Council this afternoon adopted a resolution on ensuring respect for international human rights law and international humanitarian law in the occupied Palestinian territory, including East Jerusalem, and in Israel," the UN body said in a statement.It said the international commission of inquiry has been established to investigate violations of international humanitarian law and all alleged violations and abuses of international human rights during the recent conflict.The special session of the Council was called to discuss the “grave human rights situation" in the Palestinian territory including East Jerusalem.India's permanent representative to the UN in Geneva Indra Mani Pandey said at the special session that New Delhi welcomes the diplomatic efforts of the international community and regional countries that have resulted in bringing ceasefire between Israel and armed groups in Gaza."India calls on all parties to show extreme restraint, desist from actions that aggravate tensions and refrain from any further attempts to unilaterally change the existing status-quo, including in East Jerusalem and its neighbourhoods," he said.In a statement, Pandey also expressed concern at the continuing violence in Jerusalem, especially at Haram Al Sharif and other Palestinian territories."We remain concerned about the continuing violence in Jerusalem, especially at Haram Al Sharif/Temple Mount and other Palestinian territories, and about the possible eviction process in Sheikh Jarrah and Silwan neighbourhoods in East Jerusalem," he said.Pandey said the indiscriminate rocket firings from Gaza targeting the civilian population in Israel, and the retaliatory airstrikes into Gaza have caused immense sufferings."We deeply mourn the loss of civilian lives resulting from the violence, and urge the international community's immediate attention to providing humanitarian assistance to the Palestinian civilian population, particularly in Gaza," he said."India continues to provide developmental and humanitarian assistance to the Palestinian Authority, including COVID-19 related assistance, bilaterally, and through our dedicated contribution to the UN," he added.Both Israel and Hamas agreed on a ceasefire that has come into effect on last Friday after 11 days of intense fighting in which around 230 people were killed in Gaza and 12 in Israel.Pandey said India was firmly convinced that dialogue remains the only viable option that can effectively address the issues confronting the region and its people."Recent developments have once again underscored the need for immediate resumption of dialogue between Israel and Palestine, aimed at realising the establishment of two States living side by side in peace within secure and recognised borders," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/india-abstains-from-voting-on-unhrc-resolution-to-probe-alleged-violations-and-crimes-in-gaza-conflict-101622188844626.html
28-05-2021||World||Canada: Leader of NDP apologises for violating Covid norms||The leader of Canada’s Federal New Democratic Party or NDP Jagmeet Singh has apologised after a video emerged that showed him violating Covid-19 norms.A brief 45-second undated video aired by Global News showed an unmasked Singh exchanging a hug with another unmasked man after exiting from a vehicle.The other person appearing in the video was identified as Taranvir Dhaliwal, who the news outlet reported as an executive assistant to Gurratan Singh, the NDP leader’s brother, who is a member of the Ontario Provincial Parliament.Global News cited an emailed response from Jagmeet, in which he said he was “sorry” for his actions. “Like most Canadians, I’ve done my best to follow public health advice. Coming back from this event, I did not do enough to follow that advice and I’m sorry,” Jagmeet said.“I will do better to keep my family, our community and all Canadians safe. We cannot let our guard down if we want to beat this virus, and I’m committed to continue to do my best until we’re on the other side of this,” he added.The event Jagmeet referred to was a drive-in iftar event in the town of Mississauga in the Greater Toronto Area or GTA. Jagmeet, who represents Burnaby South in British Columbia in the House of Commons, has been living with his brother, sister-in-law and parents in Brampton, a neighbouring town in the GTA.That arrangement was revealed by Gurratan Singh, in a January tweet, in which he noted he and his wife were hosting Jagmeet Singh, his wife Gurkiran and their parents, during the pandemic. “Multi-generational homes are common culturally, this helps Jagmeet be close to drive to Ottawa & avoid air travel during the second wave,” he added.In an interview aired by Global News, Jagmeet apologised again for letting down his guard and said he needed to remain more vigilant and hoped this episode would not discourage others from following safety protocols related to Covid-19.The NDP leader has been avoiding air travel and is participating in virtual events related to his constituency in the province of British Columbia, while currently living in Ontario.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/canada-leader-of-ndp-apologises-for-violating-covid-norms-101622182570641.html
28-05-2021||World||Covid-19: Thailand approves China's Sinopharm vaccine for emergency use||Thailand's food and drug regulator on Friday approved for emergency use the coroanvirus vaccine developed by China's Sinopharm, a senior official said."The FDA has approved the Sinopharm vaccine," senior health official Paisan Dankhum told a news conference, making it the fifth Covid-19 vaccine Thailand has approved.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid19-thailand-approves-china-s-sinopharm-vaccine-for-emergency-use-101622180588209.html
28-05-2021||World||Sputnik V may be included in COVAX vaccine list for low, middle income countries||Sputnik V could also be included on the list of Covid-19 vaccines for distribution under the COVAX Facility for low and middle-income countries, the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) marketing the vaccine globally said in a statement on Thursday.“…RDIF will be holding a separate discussion with Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance to see the Sputnik V vaccine considered for inclusion in the COVAX Facility’s Portfolio of COVID-19 vaccines…,” the statement said.Sputnik V is one of the three Covid-19 vaccines approved for use in India under restricted emergency use authorisation.The COVAX Facility aims to help end the acute phase of the global pandemic by the end of 2021 by providing rapid, fair, and equitable access to safe and effective vaccines to enable the protection of frontline health care and social workers, as well as other high-risk and vulnerable groups.RDIF has also tied up with the United Nations International Children’s Emergency Fund (UNICEF) for the supply of 220 million doses of two-dose Russian vaccine.Also Read | Govt pushes back on Covid-19 vaccine plan criticism“Human Vaccine LLC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Russian Direct Investment Fund announces the signing of an agreement for the supply of 220 million doses of two-dose Sputnik V Russian COVID-19 vaccine with the United Nations International Children’s Emergency Fund (UNICEF)…,” the statement said.The doses are sufficient to vaccinate 110 million people.The supply agreement with UNICEF is likely to broaden access to help meet vaccine demand around the world. Procurement and delivery of the vaccine by UNICEF are subject to the vaccine receiving the World Health Organisation (WHO) emergency use listing.The decision is expected soon on the Sputnik V application for WHO Emergency Use Listing that was submitted in October 2020.“RDIF is proud to support UNICEF and its partners’ global efforts to ensure equal and wide access to coronavirus vaccines for all countries. Vaccination is the best way to defeat the pandemic, help people feel safe, restore economies and return to normal life. Sputnik V is already used in more than 40 countries and this number keeps increasing as we continue deliveries to our partners every day. RDIF looks forward to the successful completion of the WHO prequalification process and obtaining EUL to start delivering supplies of Sputnik V through UNICEF to save millions of lives,” said Kirill Dmitriev, chief executive officer, RDIF.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/sputnik-v-may-be-included-in-covax-vaccine-list-for-low-middle-income-countries-101622178310215.html
28-05-2021||World||Hong Kong media tycoon Jimmy Lai sentenced to more jail time over 2019 protest||Hong Kong media tycoon and outspoken pro-democracy activist Jimmy Lai was sentenced to more jail time Friday over his role in an anti-government protest in 2019, as authorities crack down on dissent in the city.Lai and nine others were charged with incitement to take part in an unauthorized assembly, for their roles in a protest on Oct. 1, 2019, when they walked down a road with thousands of others.Lai, 73, was sentenced to 14 months in prison. He is currently serving a separate 14-month jail term for other convictions earlier this year also related to unauthorized rallies in 2019, when Hong Kong residents took to the streets in the biggest challenge to Beijing since the city was handed from British to Chinese control in 1997.Also Read| China continues to undermine Hong Kong's democratic institutions, says BlinkenWith the two sentences combined, Lai will serve a total of 20 months behind bars.He is also being investigated under the city’s sweeping national security law, imposed last year, for colluding with foreign powers to intervene in the Hong Kong affairs.Also Read| Hong Kong changes electoral law, reduces direct public voteAuthorities have arrested and charged most of the city’s pro-democracy advocates, who also include Joshua Wong, a student leader during 2014 protests.US Secretary of State Antony Blinken in a statement called on Hong Kong authorities to drop charges filed against people “merely for standing for election or for expressing dissenting views.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/hong-kong-media-tycoon-jimmy-lai-sentenced-to-more-jail-time-over-2019-protest-101622176985332.html
28-05-2021||World||Stephen Hawking's archive and office acquired for UK public||London's Science Museum and the Cambridge University library said Wednesday they have acquired a large collection of items belonging to late physicist Stephen Hawking, from his personalised wheelchairs to landmark papers on theoretical physics and his scripts from his appearance on “The Simpsons.”The entire contents of Hawking's office at Cambridge — including his communications equipment, memorabilia, bets he made on scientific debates and office furniture — will be preserved as part of the collection belonging to the Science Museum Group.Hawking occupied the office at the university's department of applied mathematics and theoretical physics from 2002 until shortly before his death in 2018.Highlights will go on display at the London museum early next year. Museum officials are also hoping to create a touring exhibition in the U.K. before setting up a permanent display in London.Meanwhile, his vast archive of scientific and personal papers, including a first draft of his bestselling “A Brief History of Time” and his correspondence with leading scientists, will remain at Cambridge University's library.The institutions' acceptance of Hawking's archive and office meant that his estate settled 4.2 million pounds (USD 5.9 million) in inheritance tax.This was done through a U.K. government plan which allows those who have such tax bills to pay by transferring important cultural, scientific or historic objects to the nation. Artefacts accepted under the plan are allocated to public collections and available for all.Hawking studied for his PhD at Cambridge and later became the university's Lucasian Professor of Mathematics, the same post that Isaac Newton held from 1669 to 1702.Cambridge's acquisition of the 10,000-page archive means that Hawking's papers will join those of Newton and Charles Darwin at the university library, where they will soon be free for the public to access.“The archive allows us to step inside Stephen's mind and to travel with him round the cosmos to, as he said, better understand our place in the universe,'” said Jessica Gardner, the university's librarian.“This vast archive gives extraordinary insight into the evolution of Stephen's scientific life, from childhood to research student, from disability activist to ground-breaking, world-renowned scientist,” she added.Diagnosed with motor neuron disease at 22 and given just a few years to live, Hawking survived for decades, dying in 2018 at 76.His work on the mysteries of space, time and black holes captured the imagination of millions, and his popular science books made him a celebrity beyond the preserves of academia. Hollywood celebrated his life in the 2014 biopic “The Theory of Everything.”Hawking's children, Lucy, Tim and Robert, said they were pleased that their father's work will be preserved for the public for generations to come.“My father would be so pleased and I think maybe at the same time, just a tiny bit overwhelmed that he was going to form part of the ... history of science, that he was going to be alongside the great scientists, the people whose work he really admired," Lucy Hawking said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/stephen-hawking-s-archive-and-office-acquired-for-uk-public-101622164365790.html
28-05-2021||World||Top US, Chinese officials discuss trade, no sign of negotiations||US and Chinese trade envoys talked by phone on Thursday for the first time since President Joe Biden took office, but the two sides gave no sign when negotiations on ending their tariff war might restart.US trade representative Katherine Tai discussed her “ongoing review” of the trade relationship, her office said in a statement. The Chinese commerce ministry said vice premier Liu. He raised “issues of common concern” but gave no details.Trade relations between the two will be a major plank in the new US president’s foreign and economic policy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/top-us-chinese-officials-discuss-trade-no-sign-of-negotiations-101622166723400.html
28-05-2021||World||Covid-19: ‘Three quarters of new UK cases could be B.1.167’||The British government says a fast-spreading new coronavirus variant could delay its plans to lift remaining social restrictions next month.Health minister Matt Hancock at a press conference on Thursday said up to three-quarters of the new cases in the UK are thought to be of the variant first detected in India, known as the B.1.167.According to Public Health England, Britain has seen a total of nearly 7,000 cases of the B.1.617 variant. There were a total of 6,959 confirmed cases of the variant, up 3,535 from the total reported last week.Sinopharm jabs effectiveTwo vaccines from China’s Sinopharm successfully prevented symptomatic Covid-19 infections by 72.8% and 78.1%, according to a study published in Journal of the American Medical Association.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid19-three-quarters-of-new-uk-cases-could-be-b1167-101622162463651.html
28-05-2021||World||US-China row intensifies over Covid origins probe||A global row intensified amid renewed calls for an investigation into the origins of the Covid pandemic on Thursday, with Beijing accusing the Biden administration of playing politics and shirking responsibility, even as the US President pledged to release the findings of the US intelligence community’s probe into the matter.On Wednesday, US President Joe Biden ordered intelligence officials to “redouble” their efforts to investigate the origins of the Covid-19 pandemic, including a possibility that the trail might lead to a laboratory in China’s Wuhan.A day later, China said the US was playing politics. Its foreign ministry said scientists from the World Health Organization (WHO) had already said that the “lab leak” theory was unlikely. The ministry dismissed the theory that the virus may have leaked from a lab as a “conspiracy”. “Some people in the United States completely ignore facts and science,” ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian said.Biden later pledged to release the results of the intelligence community’s investigation into the origins of Covid-19, including the possibility of a leak from the Wuhan virology lab in China, unless it contained something he was “not aware of”. He previously ordered the community to “redouble their efforts to collect and analyse information that could bring us closer to a definitive conclusion, and to report back to me in 90 days”.He added: “As part of that report, I have asked for areas of further inquiry that may be required, including specific questions for China.” “The majority of elements do not believe there is sufficient information to assess one (theory) to be more likely than the other,” the US President said.Zhao said that the US ranks first globally in the number of confirmed Covid-19 cases and fatalities, which have reached around 33 million and 600,000, respectively. He said the US should accept the WHO-led international investigation.“The US side claims that it wants China to participate in a comprehensive, transparent, evidence-based international investigation,” Zhao said. “We would like to ask the US side to do the same as China and immediately cooperate with the World Health Organization on origin tracing research in a scientific manner.”Zhao said the administration’s position came in “in total disregard of facts and science... while totally ignoring the doubts over the origin-tracing work and failure of pandemic response in the US”.“This fully shows that the US side does not care about facts and truth, nor is it interested in serious scientific origin tracing, but wants to use the epidemic to engage in stigmatisation and political manipulation, and to shirk responsibility,” Zhao said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uschina-row-intensifies-over-covid-origins-probe-101622162141051.html
28-05-2021||World||Competitor fears Musk could 'monopolise' space||The launching of thousands of satellites into low Earth orbit by tech billionaire Elon Musk's SpaceX threatens the "de-facto monopolisation" of space, the head of competitor Arianespace Stephane Israel has warned.Elon Musk's Starlink constellation project recently received authorisation from US regulator the Federal Communications Commission to provide broadband from space and place thousands of satellites lower than previously proposed, angering competitors including Amazon.SpaceX, which asked the FCC for permission which will apply to some 2,800 satellites, plans ultimately to blanket poorly connected and isolated areas of the globe with internet connectivity.But rivals claim the lower altitude could increase risk of space collisions and heightened radio interference."We want space to remain accessible for human activities... but we refuse a Wild West space. It really is our responsibility to ensure that low orbit (less than 1,000 kilometres or 625 miles) above the Earth is sustainable long-term," Israel told a UN-sponsored conference in Geneva on sustainable space development goals.Israel noted that of more than 9,000 satellites sent into orbit since 1957, "SpaceX has already deployed 1,677 satellites for Starlink, which means that today, of all satellites in operation, 35 percent belong to one man -- Elon Musk."And if you include satellites of more than 50 kilogrammes, that's more than 50 percent."He added that recent years had seen several collisions, at least two of them involving Starlink satellites, and warned that "very quickly, we could find ourselves in a catastrophic scenario that would render this orbit impractical."Israel said there was also "a risk of de-facto monopolisation" for Starlink as one of the first firms to set up such a satellite network.He suggested that was "rather what our competitor is banking on" by securing the FCC's green light.The FCC judged in April that deployment at a lower altitude than the 540 to 570 kilometres initially proposed "will improve the experience for users of the SpaceX service, including in often-underserved polar regions".It would also enable the satellites to be more speedily removed from orbit which would have "beneficial effects" in terms of reducing space debris, the authority found.In all, SpaceX has requested FCC authorisation for up to 42,000 satellites.That has put pressure on Arianespace, a joint venture between Airbus and French multinational Safran, to ramp up its own competitiveness for launches -- a global market whose value Fortune Business Insights estimated at almost $13 billion in 2019, rising to $26 billion by 2027.French UN ambassador in Geneva and conference organiser Francois Rivasseau stressed that space had a "vital" role to aid sustainable development.But he also warned that potential risks could suddenly go from fringe concerns to global problems -- pointing to the coronavirus pandemic as a precedent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/competitor-fears-musk-could-monopolise-space-101622161570949.html
28-05-2021||World||'Covid-19 not over yet': Germany to vaccinate children over 12 from June 7||Germany will start offering coronavirus jabs to children over the age of 12 from June 7, Chancellor Angela Merkel said Thursday.But she stressed that vaccination would not be compulsory and would have no bearing on whether children can attend school or go on holiday.The European Medicines Agency is expected to approve the Pfizer/BioNTech Covid jab for 12- to 15-year-olds on Friday. It is already authorised in the EU for those over 16."Children and young people aged 12 and over will have the chance to book a vaccine appointment from June 7," Merkel said after talks with Germany's regional leaders.Those willing will be offered at least their first of two shots by the end of August, she added, roughly in time for the new school year."The main message to parents is: there will be no compulsory vaccinations," Merkel told reporters.Schools would not require pupils to be vaccinated, she said. "And it would be totally wrong to think you can only go on holiday with a vaccinated child."Inoculating children is seen as a key step towards achieving herd immunity in the fight against the pandemic.Canada and the United States have already started vaccinating over-12s.But experts have also expressed reservations, pointing out that children rarely suffer from severe Covid and that vaccine supply is still tight.Merkel urged patience, saying not everyone would get an appointment for their child right away.'Not over'Germany's STIKO vaccine regulator is due to give its recommendations for over -12s shortly after the Pfizer jab is approved.The agency has already signalled it intends to recommend the jab only for children in risk categories, such as those with underlying medical conditions.All over -12s will still be allowed to get jabbed regardless, similar to the AstraZeneca vaccine which is officially recommended only for people over 60 in Germany but is open to anyone who has consulted with their doctor.After a much-criticised slow start, the coronavirus inoculation campaign in Europe's top economy has kicked into high gear in recent weeks.More than 40 percent of adults have now had their first jab, and 15 percent are fully vaccinated.The accelerated pace, along with rapid testing and widespread shutdowns, has helped break a third coronavirus wave and allowed Germany to relax restrictions."This is a great success," Merkel said. But she called on Germans not to ditch precautions such as social distancing, mask wearing, and airing out rooms."The pandemic is not over."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid19-not-over-yet-germany-to-vaccinate-children-over-12-from-june-7-101622160955084.html
28-05-2021||World||Russian court fines Twitter for failing to delete content||A Russian court on Thursday fined Twitter 19 million roubles ($259,000) for failing to delete content considered illegal by Moscow, in the latest episode of a long-running dispute between Russia and the social network operator.Twitter has been subjected to a punitive slowdown in Russia since March, part of a broader stand-off between Moscow and big tech companies to beef up what it calls internet sovereignty.State communications regulator Roskomnadzor earlier this month partially halted the slowdown after Twitter deleted more than 90% of illegal content, which Roskomnadzor says includes posts containing child pornography, drug abuse information or calls for minors to commit suicide.Twitter denies allowing its platform to be used to promote illegal behaviour, and says it has a zero-tolerance policy for child sexual exploitation and prohibits the promotion of suicide or self-harm.On Thursday, Moscow's Tagansky District Court said it issued Twitter with fines for six different administrative offences, totalling 19 million roubles.Twitter, which did not immediately respond to a request for comment, was also fined 8.9 million roubles in April.TikTok and Google received smaller fines on Thursday for similar offences. Google declined to comment. TikTok did not immediately respond.Repeat offences can be punishable by a fine of up to 10% of the company's total annual revenue, Roskomnadzor has said, but it is unclear whether it would take such a step.Roskomnadzor earlier on Thursday said it was not yet planning to slow down the speed of Google or Facebook, as it has done with Twitter, but warned it could take more radical steps.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/russian-court-fines-twitter-for-failing-to-delete-content-101622160335158.html
28-05-2021||World||Hong Kong approves new electoral laws||Hong Kong’s legislature on Thursday passed a bill amending electoral laws that drastically reduces the public’s ability to vote and increases the number of pro-Beijing lawmakers making decisions for the city.The new law empowers the city’s national security department to check the backgrounds of potential candidates for public office and a sets up a new committee to ensure candidates are “patriotic”. The number of seats in Hong Kong’s legislature will be expanded to 90, with 40 of them elected by a pro-Beijing election committee. The number of legislators elected directly by Hong Kong voters will be cut to 20, from the previous 35.Hong Kong bans Tiananmen vigil for 2nd year runningHong Kong police cited Covid restrictions to ban for a second year running a June 4 annual vigil to commemorate the Chinese Communist government’s crackdown on student-led pro-democracy protests in Beijing’s Tiananmen Square in 1989.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/hong-kong-approves-new-electoral-laws-101622159159316.html
28-05-2021||World||Boy, 14, charged as adult in 13-year-old girl's death from stabbing||A 14-year-old boy is being charged as an adult in the fatal stabbing of a 13-year-old cheerleader whose body was found in the northeast Florida woods earlier this month.The State Attorney's Office in St. Johns County filed a notice Thursday to transfer Aiden Fucci's case from juvenile to adult court after a grand jury indicted him on a first-degree murder charge, according to court records. He faces a possible life sentence.State Attorney R.J. Larizza said during a news conference that charging Fucci as an adult wasn't only appropriate but the only choice his office could make. An autopsy discovered at least 114 stab wounds on Tristyn Bailey."Every time that arm went back and every time that arm went down, that was premeditation," Larizza said.Investigators said that Fucci had also told several friends that he planned to kill someone, though it wasn't clear whether Bailey was his intended target from the beginning, Larizza said.Bailey was last seen early May 9 at the community center in the Durbin Crossing community south of Jacksonville. Bailey and Fucci attended nearby Patriot Oaks Academy, where Bailey was a cheerleader.Bailey's parents reported her missing later that morning, and a neighbor found her body in a heavily wooded area that evening, the St. Johns County Sheriff Office said. Fucci was arrested the next day on a second-degree murder charge.According to an arrest report, video surveillance from the community center showed the girl walking with Fucci shortly after 1 a.m. May 9. Another video from a nearby home showed the pair walking along a road about 1:45 a.m. The same video showed only Fucci walking in the areas at 3:27 a.m., the report said.The videos led the detectives to talk to Fucci. The girl's body was found close to the boy's home, the report said. Detectives reported finding evidence related to the clothing seen in the surveillance videos in the boy's bedroom. And some of the items had a presumptive positive result for the presence of blood, the report said. A dive team found a knife in a nearby pond that investigators believe was the murder weapon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/boy-14-charged-as-adult-in-13-year-old-girl-s-death-from-stabbing-101622152738584.html
28-05-2021||World||President Biden brushes aside wage worries in defense of economic plans||President Joe Biden offered a broad defense of his economic agenda on Thursday, arguing that his policies have already begun to benefit ordinary Americans and rejecting business-community concerns about labor shortages and rising wages.In a speech at Cuyahoga Community College in Cleveland, Biden pointed to the receding pandemic and accelerating hiring and consumer demand as indications the U.S. is “coming back.”“Covid cases are down, deaths are down, unemployment filings are down, hunger is down,” he said. “Vaccinations are up, jobs, real growth is up, people getting health coverage is up, small business confidence is up.”Biden’s political opponents have charged that rising prices and difficulty some businesses have experienced in hiring are a result of the president’s $1.9 trillion pandemic relief measure, which boosted unemployment benefits and is distributing billions in cash directly to households. But the president argued that U.S. productivity has grown far faster than wages, offering no apology to businesses that have to raise pay to attract workers.“We must restore the connection between the success of our economy and the people who produce that success, hardworking Americans,” Biden said. “Rising wages aren’t a bug; they’re a feature.”New figures released Thursday showed that applications for state unemployment insurance fell for a fourth consecutive week, data that supports Biden’s argument.Yet the improving jobs numbers, along with rising prices for products ranging from lumber to used cars, have fueled the GOP’s case that the government doesn’t need to spend an additional $4 trillion on Biden’s proposals to overhaul infrastructure and support families.Biden said his administration would soon announce new initiatives to address what he called “supply pressures” in the economy, beginning with construction materials and “transportation bottlenecks.” He also said the administration would combat “anti-competitive practices that hurt small business and families.”The investments he’s proposed, he said, would keep the U.S. ahead of competitors already spending on their own infrastructure, listing Japan, Canada, Italy, France and the EU as countries that have undertaken infrastructure and research-and-development improvements of their own.“The pandemic exposed just how badly we need to invest in the foundation of this country and the working people of this country,” he said.While many Republicans are interested in funding road- and bridge-building, they oppose raising taxes to pay for Biden’s other plans, such as expanding community college access or universal pre-K. Republicans argue such hikes could jeopardize any nascent economic recovery.A group of Republican senators led by West Virginia’s Shelley Moore Capito publicly revealed a $928 billion counteroffer on infrastructure on Thursday, but the plan includes only about $257 billion in federal spending beyond what Congress was already expected to enact and is more than $1 trillion short of Biden’s latest proposal.In the speech, Biden glossed over April’s disappointing jobs report, saying instead that the U.S. had added an average of 500,000 jobs each of the first three months of his presidency.Biden again called for raising the minimum wage to $15 an hour, a move that would require Congress to act. And he reiterated his plan to impose higher rates on the wealthy and corporations -- a key point of his plan to finance what the White House bills as transformative and historic investments for the country.“The American people understand that the economy we had before the pandemic left far too many people behind, and that more and more families were finding that their grip on a middle class life – and the security it affords – was precarious,” Mike Donilon, a senior adviser to Biden, wrote in a memo. “They know we can’t afford to simply turn the clock back to where we were.”Donilon cited a range of non-partisan polling that showed some of Biden’s infrastructure and tax plans are popular with the majority of Americans.The community college where Biden spoke was supposed to be the site of a campaign rally in March 2020, before it was canceled when the pandemic hit and social-distancing practices were adopted in the U.S.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/president-biden-brushes-aside-wage-worries-in-defense-of-economic-plans-101622146463293.html
28-05-2021||World||Biden pledges to release Covid-19 intelligence review report||US President Joe Biden has pledged to release the result of the intelligence community’s investigation into the origins of Covid-19, including the possibility of a leak from the Wuhan virology lab in China, unless it contains something he is “not aware of”.Biden had on Wednesday ordered the US intelligence community to “redouble their efforts to collect and analyse information that could bring us closer to a definitive conclusion, and to report back to me in 90 days”.He had added, “As part of that report, I have asked for areas of further inquiry that may be required, including specific questions for China.”There has been renewed interest in one of the theories of the origin of Covid-19 that suggests the deadly pathogen may have leaked from the Wuhan laboratory, based on intelligence that three researchers from that institution had been sick enough to seek hospital care in November 2019, much before the first case was reported by China on December 8.Ordering the 90-day review, Biden said on Wednesday that right after assuming office, he had sought from the American intelligence community their “most up-to-date analysis of the origins of Covid-19, including whether it emerged from human contact with an infected animal or from a laboratory accident”.The intelligence community still has not reached a conclusion. Some elements in it lean towards human contact with an infected animal and one towards the lab leak theory. “The majority of elements do not believe there is sufficient information to assess one to be more likely than the other,” the US president said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/biden-pledges-to-release-covid-19-intelligence-review-report-101622140623002.html
28-05-2021||World||US considers in-person Quad summit||The United States is looking to convene an in-person summit of the leaders of Quad this fall, Kurt Campbell, who is President Joe Biden’s Indo-Pacific czar, said lending a certain degree of specificity to a general understanding among member countries that it will be held sometime later in the year. He added that the summit will be focused on infrastructure.The in-person summit, as a follow up to the historic first one of the leaders of the four member countries Australia, Japan, India and the US held virtually in March, was supposed to take place on the sidelines of the G-7 meet in the UK in June but an announcement of a specific date teased by the White House in April never came.The plan to hold it in the UK, which was being pushed by Japan’s Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga, fell apart in a way when Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced earlier this month his inability to attend the G-7 meeting because of the devastating second wave of Covid-19 tearing across India. Though not a member of the G-7, Modi, Australia’s Scott Morrison and South Korea’s Moon Jae-in were to join the summit as special invitees of UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson.“We want to look this fall to convene an in-person Quad and the hope will be to make a similar kind of engagement on infrastructure more generally,” Campbell said on Wednesday at a virtual event hosted by Stanford University.An in-person summit was always on the cards as announced in the statement issued by the four countries after their March summit. But, the timing had never been firmed and officials have been working towards sometime later in the year, according to people familiar with the discussions, adding that even if one was held on the sidelines of the G-7 meet, it would not have foreclosed the possibility of a stand-alone in-person summit.The Covid-19 pandemic was the focus of the virtual summit held in March and the four countries announced a joint initiative to fund, make and distribute more than 1 billion doses of Covid-19 vaccines to Indo-Pacific countries. They had also set up task forces on climate change, emerging technologies and critical resources, giving legs, for the first time, to a group that previously had only joint statements to show for outcomes.The focus on infrastructure as indicated by Campbell points to a need felt by the four countries to harness their resources to counter China’s “Belt and Road Initiative” that is creating dependencies among vulnerable nations through the use of predatory financing mechanisms.Biden’s Indo-Pacific czar also made clear the United States has truly abandoned its strategy of engagement with China, continuing a break from the past US strategy spelt out explicitly first by the Trump administration. “A period that had been broadly described as engagement has come to an end,” he said, adding, “The dominant paradigm is going to be competition. Our goal is to make that a stable, peaceful competition that brings out the best in us.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-looks-to-convene-in-person-quad-summit-this-fall-101622127059730.html
28-05-2021||India||PLA can deploy troops at short notice, says Naravane||New Delhi: Despite the pullback by the Indian and Chinese armies at strategic heights on both banks of Pangong Tso in February, the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) continues to deploy its soldiers and mechanised elements including tanks in its “immediate depth” across the Line of Actual Control (LAC) from where the PLA “can employ them [in forward areas] at short notice,” army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane said on Friday. Immediate depth refers to a distance of 150km to 200km from the contested LAC. “Hence, our troops are also in a high state of readiness and alert. Things appear to be stable as of now, but that doesn’t mean one can become complacent. We are keeping an eye on the developments there. Take the case of rotation of PLA units. A new unit may come but the old one may not go back,” the army chief said. Both armies have 50,000-60,000 troops each in the Ladakh theatre, and deployments haven’t thinned after the disengagement in Pangong Tso, Naravane said. India and China have been locked in a standoff for over a year in the region, and are currently negotiating a withdrawal of troops and weapons from friction points on the disputed border. The focus of current military talks is on negotiating the next steps of a complex disengagement process that was completed in Pangong Tso in mid-February with the pullback of frontline troops and weapons. The Indian Army is now focussing on resolving outstanding problems with PLA at other friction points. After a promising start in the Pangong Tso area, the disengagement process between the two armies has hit a wall as a result of PLA’s reluctance to pull back its forward deployed troops from Hot Springs, Gogra and Depsang, and restore the status quo ante of April 2020. “We should not expect results after every round of talks. Disengagement at Pangong Tso took place after several rounds of talks. The process to hold the next round of talks (12th round) is on. It’s taking time because of the Covid situation but the talks will happen,” Naravane said. The 11th round of talks between corps commander-ranked officers was held on April 9. During those talks, the Indian Army told PLA that disengagement at all friction points on the disputed border was crucial for the de-escalation of the conflict. “Our stance while arriving at disengagement in Pangong Tso area or in the remaining areas is constant and there is no change in it. We want the status quo ante of April 2020 to be restored. The Indian Army has made it clear to the PLA that de-escalation will only be considered once disengagement is completed to the mutual satisfaction of both sides,” the army chief said. The Indian Army’s patrolling activity has been affected in Hot Springs and Gogra, where rival troops are forward deployed and where skeletal disengagement took place last year, but the gains could not be consolidated. The PLA’s deployments in Depsang have also hindered access of Indian soldiers to routes including the ones leading to Patrolling Points (PP) 10, 11, 11-A, 12 and 13. To be sure, the problems at Depsang predate the current border standoff “The areas being remote, there is a requirement to arrive at a solution and also avoid recurrence of such a situation. The resolution should honour mutual sensitivity and interests,” he said. Disengagement of frontline troops on the LAC is the first crucial step to restore peace and tranquillity in eastern Ladakh. “Disengagement is just the first phase of a broader, more comprehensive plan of establishing the status quo ante of April 2020. It will be followed by de-escalation and finally de-induction of forces. We continue to remain vigilant,” Naravane said. The two armies held the first round of military talks almost a year ago on June 6, 2020, to resolve the border row. However, the Galwan Valley skirmish on June 15, 2020, created severe complications and dashed hopes of any significant breakthrough. The brutal clash that left 20 Indian soldiers and an undisclosed number of Chinese troops dead created a huge trust deficit between the two sides. Trust levels are bound to be low when a major standoff takes place between two countries leading to casualties on both sides, the army chief said. “However, it is always our endeavour that this trust deficit should not hinder the negotiation process. As two professional armies, it is imperative that we resolve the situation and make progress to restore trust at the earliest,” Naravane said. Asked to comment on the situation at the LAC in other sectors, especially Naku La in Sikkim, the army chief said the situation was peaceful “without any major instances of violence”. “A few areas, due to differing perceptions of the LAC, have the potential of flaring up but are managed by local commanders of both sides. Aggression is not the solution to any problem. Problems can only be solved by mutual understanding and respect,” he said. On China building villages near the LAC, the army chief said it appeared to be part of a plan to have more population in border areas. China has combined a policy of building villages close to the LAC from Xinjiang to Bhutan with simultaneously bolstering military facilities and dual-use infrastructure such as airports to keep up the pressure on India, HT reported on May 21. On PLA building infrastructure in the Ladakh theatre, Naravane said, “They never had so many people there before. So, they need to build additional infrastructure to house the additional people. We are also creating infrastructure on our side – habitat, water supply and electrification.” The army chief said the Indian Army was keeping tabs on Chinese training areas that are at a depth of 1,000 km to 1,500 km from the LAC and the PLA’s activities there. “This is the training season. The PLA has brought additional formations to these areas for training. They should go back in September,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pla-can-deploy-troops-at-short-notice-says-naravane-101622226564009.html
28-05-2021||India||Govt cuts seating capacity in domestic flights to 50%, fares could go up||The Union civil aviation ministry on Friday reduced the seating capacity of domestic flights from 80% to 50% of their normal capacity from June 1. Fares for domestic travel could also get costlier as the ministry also raised the lower limit on fares by 13% to 16 %.“This decision has been taken in view of the sudden surge in the number of active Covid-19 cases across the country, decrease in passenger traffic and passenger load factor (occupancy rate)", the ministry's order issued late on Friday said.The aviation ministry imposed lower and upper limits on airfares based on flight duration when services resumed on May 25 last year following complete suspension of passenger air travel for two-months.According to the order, the lower limit for flights under 40 minutes of duration will be increased from ₹2,300 to ₹2,600 -- an increase of 13%.The official order said that the government has taken this decision keeping in mind the "prevailing situation of Covid-19" in the country.Similarly, flights with duration between 40 minutes and 60 minutes will have a lower limit of ₹3,300 instead of ₹2,900 now, the order said.For domestic flights of duration between 60-90 minutes, the lower limit will go up from ₹3,500 to ₹4,000. The lower limit will go up from ₹4,100 to ₹4,700 for flights of the duration of 90-120 minutes, from ₹5,300 to ₹6,100 for flights of 120-150 minutes, from ₹6,400 to ₹7,400 for flights of 150-180 minutes and from ₹7,600 to 8,700 for flights of 180-210 minutes.When the government resumed scheduled domestic flights in India on May 25 last year after a two-month-long lockdown, the ministry had permitted the carriers to operate not more than 33% of their pre-COVID domestic services. The cap was gradually increased to 80% by December last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-cuts-seating-capacity-in-domestic-flights-to-50-fares-could-go-up-101622226192664.html
28-05-2021||India||MHA invites applications for citizenship from non-Muslim refugees from Afghanistan, Pakistan, Bangladesh||The Centre on Friday invited non-Muslims like Hindus, Sikhs, Jains and Buddhists belonging to Afghanistan, Bangladesh and Pakistan and residing in 13 districts of Gujarat, Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh, Haryana and Punjab to apply for Indian citizenship.The Union home ministry issued a notification in this effect for immediate implementation of the order under the Citizenship Act 1955 and Rules framed under the law in 2009 even though the rules under the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) enacted in 2019 are yet to be framed by the government.When the CAA was enacted in 2019, there were widespread protests in different parts of the country and even riots took place in Delhi in early 2020 in the wake of these protests.According to the CAA, Indian citizenship will be given to non-Muslim persecuted minorities from Bangladesh, Pakistan and Afghanistan -- Hindu, Sikh, Jain, Buddhist, Parsi and Christian -- who had come to India till December 31, 2014."In exercise of powers conferred under Section 16 of the Citizenship Act, 1955 (57 of 1955), the central government hereby directs that powers exercisable by it for registration as citizen of India under Section 5, or for grant of certificate of naturalisation under section 6 of the Citizenship Act 1955 in respect of any person belonging to minority community in Afghanistan, Bangladesh and Pakistan namely, Hindus, Sikhs, Buddhists, Jains, Parsis and Christians, residing in the districts mentioned and the states mentioned below....," the notification said.People who are eligible to apply for Indian citizenship are those currently living in the districts of Morbi, Rajkot, Patan and Vadodara of Gujarat, Durg and Balodabazar in Chhattisgarh, Jalore, Udaipur, Pali, Barmer and Sirohi in Rajasthan, Faridabad in Haryana and Jalandhar in Punjab."The application for registration as citizen of India or grant of certificate of naturalisation as citizen of India under the said rules (Citizenship Rules, 2009) shall be made by the applicant online," the notification said.The home ministry said the verification of the application is done simultaneously by collector or secretary (Home) of Haryana and Punjab as the case may be, at the district-level and the state-level and the application and the reports thereon shall be made accessible simultaneously to the Centre on online portal.The collector or the secretary, as the case may be, makes such inquiry as he considers necessary for ascertaining the suitability of the applicant and for that purpose forwards the application online to such agencies for verification and comments as may be required for completing such an inquiry and the instructions issued by the Centre from time-to-time in this regard shall be strictly complied with by state or union territory and district concerned, it said.The comments of the agencies referred to in clause (C) are uploaded online by such agencies and accessible to the collector or the secretary, as the case may be, and the central government.The collector or the secretary on being satisfied with the suitability of the applicant, will grant him the citizenship of India by registration or naturalisation and issue a certificate of registration or naturalisation, as the case may be, duly printed from online portal and signed by the collector or the secretary in the form as prescribed in the said rules, the notification said.The collector or the secretary shall maintain an online as well as physical register, in accordance with the said rules, containing the details of the person registered or naturalised as a citizen of India and furnish a copy thereof to the central government within seven days of such registration or naturalisation, it said."This order shall come into force on the date of its publication in the official gazette and shall remain valid until further orders," the notification said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mha-invites-applications-for-citizenship-from-non-muslim-refugees-from-afghanistan-pakistan-bangladesh-101622223884943.html
28-05-2021||India||Hyderabad cops file charges in ₹30,000 crore instant loan racket||The Cybercrime police of Hyderabad on Friday filed a charge-sheet in connection with a ₹30,000 crore online loan racket, based out of China, that ruined the lives of hundreds of people.The racket encouraged borrowers to take loans in Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Bengaluru, Chennai and Mumbai and charged them steep interest rates. “In Telangana, as many as seven people died by suicide unable to bear the harassment of these online lending agencies,” the police said.The police told the court that the total transactions indulged in by the accused ran into around ₹30,000 crore. “They made a profit of around ₹11,000 crore, which they have diverted to benami accounts,” the cybercrime police said.In its charge sheet, the cybercrime police said 28 persons were arrested in the case, including a key accused, Zhu Wei, and three other Chinese nationals. The kingpin of the racket, Zixia Zhang alias Jennifer, was still absconding. The racket was busted in December 2020 and the accused arrested over four months.Police said the gang, headquartered in China’s Shanghai, offered instant loans through mobile applications. Several such instant loan applications, namely Loan Gram, Cash Train, Cash Bus, AAA Cash, Super Cash, Mint Cash, Happy Cash, Loan Card, Repay One, Money Box and Monkey box were hosted on Google Play Store, the cybercrime police chargesheet said.Once the customers instal the apps, the company gets access to all contacts and other data from the mobile phone. The instant loans are granted on a commission ranging from 25 to 30 per cent.They set up four call centres in various places of India and hired executives to collect repayments, including interest, processing charges, GST, default charges.“These executives resorted to systematic abusing, harassing, and threatening of the defaulters through call centres run by them. They even blackmail the borrowers by sending fake legal notices to their relatives and family members,” the police said.The accused were booked under Sections 420 and 506 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Section 66 of IT Act-2008, Sections 3, 10 and 13(1) of Telangana Moneylenders Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hyderabad-cops-file-charges-in-rs-30-000-crore-instant-loan-racket-101622219905573.html
28-05-2021||India||PLA can employ troops in forward areas at short notice, says army chief Naravane||Despite the pullback by the Indian and Chinese armies at strategic heights on both banks of Pangong Tso in February, the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) continues to deploy its soldiers and mechanised elements including tanks in its “immediate depth” across the Line of Actual Control (LAC) from where the PLA “can employ them [in forward areas] at short notice,” army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane said on Friday.Immediate depth refers to a distance of 150km to 200km from the contested LAC.“Hence, our troops are also in a high state of readiness and alert. Things appear to be stable as of now, but that doesn’t mean one can become complacent. We are keeping an eye on the developments there. Take the case of rotation of PLA units. A new unit may come but the old one may not go back,” the army chief said.Both armies have 50,000-60,000 troops each in the Ladakh theatre, and deployments haven’t thinned after the disengagement in Pangong Tso, Naravane said.India and China have been locked in a standoff for over a year in the region, and are currently negotiating a withdrawal of troops and weapons from friction points on the disputed border.The focus of current military talks is on negotiating the next steps of a complex disengagement process that was completed in Pangong Tso in mid-February with the pullback of frontline troops and weapons. The Indian Army is now focussing on resolving outstanding problems with PLA at other friction points.After a promising start in the Pangong Tso area, the disengagement process between the two armies has hit a wall as a result of PLA’s reluctance to pull back its forward deployed troops from Hot Springs, Gogra and Depsang, and restore the status quo ante of April 2020.“We should not expect results after every round of talks. Disengagement at Pangong Tso took place after several rounds of talks. The process to hold the next round of talks (12th round) is on. It’s taking time because of the Covid situation but the talks will happen,” Naravane said.The 11th round of talks between corps commander-ranked officers was held on April 9. During those talks, the Indian Army told PLA that disengagement at all friction points on the disputed border was crucial for the de-escalation of the conflict.“Our stance while arriving at disengagement in Pangong Tso area or in the remaining areas is constant and there is no change in it. We want the status quo ante of April 2020 to be restored. The Indian Army has made it clear to the PLA that de-escalation will only be considered once disengagement is completed to the mutual satisfaction of both sides,” the army chief said.The Indian Army’s patrolling activity has been affected in Hot Springs and Gogra, where rival troops are forward deployed and where skeletal disengagement took place last year, but the gains could not be consolidated.The PLA’s deployments in Depsang have also hindered access of Indian soldiers to routes including the ones leading to Patrolling Points (PP) 10, 11, 11-A, 12 and 13. To be sure, the problems at Depsang predate the current border standoff“The areas being remote, there is a requirement to arrive at a solution and also avoid recurrence of such a situation. The resolution should honour mutual sensitivity and interests,” he said.Disengagement of frontline troops on the LAC is the first crucial step to restore peace and tranquillity in eastern Ladakh.“Disengagement is just the first phase of a broader, more comprehensive plan of establishing the status quo ante of April 2020. It will be followed by de-escalation and finally de-induction of forces. We continue to remain vigilant,” Naravane said.The two armies held the first round of military talks almost a year ago on June 6, 2020, to resolve the border row. However, the Galwan Valley skirmish on June 15, 2020, created severe complications and dashed hopes of any significant breakthrough. The brutal clash that left 20 Indian soldiers and an undisclosed number of Chinese troops dead created a huge trust deficit between the two sides.Trust levels are bound to be low when a major standoff takes place between two countries leading to casualties on both sides, the army chief said. “However, it is always our endeavour that this trust deficit should not hinder the negotiation process. As two professional armies, it is imperative that we resolve the situation and make progress to restore trust at the earliest,” Naravane said.Asked to comment on the situation at the LAC in other sectors, especially Naku La in Sikkim, the army chief said the situation was peaceful “without any major instances of violence”.“A few areas, due to differing perceptions of the LAC, have the potential of flaring up but are managed by local commanders of both sides. Aggression is not the solution to any problem. Problems can only be solved by mutual understanding and respect,” he said.On China building villages near the LAC, the army chief said it appeared to be part of a plan to have more population in border areas. China has combined a policy of building villages close to the LAC from Xinjiang to Bhutan with simultaneously bolstering military facilities and dual-use infrastructure such as airports to keep up the pressure on India, HT reported on May 21.On PLA building infrastructure in the Ladakh theatre, Naravane said, “They never had so many people there before. So, they need to build additional infrastructure to house the additional people. We are also creating infrastructure on our side – habitat, water supply and electrification.”The army chief said the Indian Army was keeping tabs on Chinese training areas that are at a depth of 1,000 km to 1,500 km from the LAC and the PLA’s activities there. “This is the training season. The PLA has brought additional formations to these areas for training. They should go back in September,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pla-can-employ-troops-in-forward-areas-at-short-notice-says-army-chief-naravane-101622215049753.html
28-05-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 9 pm: Kerala CM urges PM Modi for continuous supply of Covid-19 vaccines||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Vijayan writes to PM Modi; urges him for continuous supply of Covid-19 vaccinesKerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Friday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi asking him to take measures for a continuous supply of the vaccines against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) so that the pace of the state can fully utilise its potential to inoculate people. Read moreDelhi to begin unlocking from May 31. Here’s what will be allowedDelhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announced on Friday that the national capital will start lifting lockdown measures gradually from Monday, May 31. Read moreFew players in condition to play three games in 12 days: India head football coach Igor StimacRuing the lack of preparation ahead of India’s remaining games in the World Cup qualifiers, head coach Igor Stimac said the target remains qualification for the 2023 AFC Asian Cup. India are scheduled to play Qatar on June 3, Bangladesh on June 7 and Afghanistan of June 15. Read moreSpotify India announces ‘Ruk Jaana Nahi’ series to highlight Covid-19 storiesSpotify has announced a limited video and audio series titled ‘Ruk Jaana Nahi’ to highlight stories from good samaritans during the Covid-19 pandemic. The series will feature a total 8 episodes, and it will be hosted by Bollywood actor Rajkummar Rao. Read moreWatch: Water enters hospitals in Bihar’s Gaya, Hajipur after heavy rainfallAs Cyclone Yaas weakened over Bihar and East Uttar Pradesh, some hospitals in Bihar were partially flooded. Watch more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9-pm-kerala-cm-urges-pm-modi-for-continuous-supply-of-covid-19-vaccines-101622212481109.html
28-05-2021||India||Turkey invokes Mahatma Gandhi and Rumi as it delivers Covid-19 aid to India||New Delhi: Turkey invoked Mahatma Gandhi and Sufi poet Jalaluddin Rumi as it delivered 50 tonnes of relief material, including five oxygen generators, to support India’s response to a devastating second wave of coronavirus infections. The material, delivered by two Turkish A400M military cargo aircraft on Wednesday, were packed in boxes that bore the words of 13th century Sufi poet Rumi – “There is hope after despair and many suns after darkness”– and the message: “With love from Turkey to the people of India”. Turkey has joined dozens of countries that have delivered hundreds of tonnes of medical supplies and equipment, including oxygen generation plants, to help India overcome a severe shortage of oxygen and other materials amid the second wave that saw the daily infection rate breach the 400,000-mark. A statement from the Turkish embassy referred to the delivery of the supplies, including five oxygen generators, 50 ventilators, 680 oxygen cylinders, and 50,000 boxes of antiviral medicine, late on Wednesday and recalled the role played by Indian leaders in Turkey’s history. “The assistance and contribution of Indian people and prominent Indian figures like the Father of the Indian Nation, Mahatma Gandhi, who collected funds to support Turkey’s Liberation War [during] 1919-1923, and Dr Mukhtar Ahmad Ansari, who led the medical mission to Ottoman Empire and set up field hospitals to treat wounded Ottoman soldiers during the Balkan Wars in 1912, are still very much alive in the memories of Turkish people,” the statement said.Turkish ambassador Firat Sunel said the aid from his country was one of the largest consignments sent out amid the second wave. Foreign minister Mevlüt Çavuşoğlu had offered to send the relief materials during a conversation with his Indian counterpart S Jaishankar on April 26, and Ibrahim Kalin, special adviser to President Recep Tayyip Erdoğan, oversaw the delivery of the aid.“Turkey supports communities across the world in their fight against the Coronavirus pandemic. We are proud to stand with the people of India in these trying times,” Kalin tweeted. External affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi thanked the Turkish Red Crescent Society in a tweet for the supplies. The Turkish aid was seen in some quarters as a move by Ankara to put bilateral ties on an even keel after they were hit in recent years by differences on the Kashmir issue and other matters. Erdoğan’s remarks on the Indian government’s handling of the situation in Kashmir had been criticised by New Delhi as interference in internal matters.Jaishankar and Çavuşoğlu met in Dushanbe on the margins of the Heart of Asia conference on Afghanistan in March, the first such interaction in more than a year. Turkey recently took on a key role in the Afghan peace process as it is set to host US-proposed talks between the Taliban and the Afghan government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/turkey-invokes-mahatma-gandhi-and-rumi-as-it-delivers-covid-19-aid-to-india-101622214323484.html
28-05-2021||India||Effects of mixing two different Covid-19 vaccines under research, say experts||Administering two different Covid-19 vaccines, specially those with similar underlying platform, is still under research and supply constraints have to be resolved so that people can take their vaccine doses on time, experts have said.A "vaccine goof up" was recently reported from Siddharthnagar in Uttar Pradesh in which some people were given Covishield in the first dose and Covaxin in the other.Experts said that of such goof up having happened at a few other places cannot be ruled out.An investigation is taking place over the incident in Siddharthnagar and officials have said it is a case of negligence.Dr Rajib Dasgupta, chairperson of the Centre of Social Medicine and Community Health at Jawaharlal Nehru University, said that mixing of vaccines or a combination of vaccines and is currently under study now."The combination of vaccines is still under investigation and research. The potential mixing of what we call a homologous boost ...homologous combination boost are vaccines that have similar mechanisms or similar platforms. Only one or two initial results are available from the trials across the world but those are interim results and not final results," he said."There is a supply problem all across the world at present. The mixing of vaccines is not authorised in India and certainly not Covaxin or Covishield," added Dr Dasgupta, who is also a member of the national committee that tracks adverse events following immunization.Delhi government is expected to receive around 91,960 doses of Covaxin in June which will only be available for those who have taken their first dose.Dr VK Paul, NITI Aayog member (Health) had said that as per protocol, the vaccination centres should stick to the same dose of vaccines, but if a mix-up has happened, "there are unlikely to be any adverse effects.""On mixing of Covishield and Covaxin we do not have any studies in India, but some countries are doing research," he added.According to the central government's vaccination protocol, the interval between first and second doses of Covaxin, manufactured by Bharat Biotech, should be at least four weeks and that for Covishield, manufactured by Serum Institute of India, should be at least 12 weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/effects-of-mixing-two-different-covid-19-vaccines-under-research-say-experts-101622210927141.html
28-05-2021||India||Maharashtra records 20,740 fresh cases of Covid-19; death toll reaches 93,198 with 424 fresh fatalities||Maharashtra recorded 20,740 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), which have taken the state’s tally to 5,692,920, according to the state health bulletin on Friday. The bulletin also showed that 424 people succumbed to the viral disease in the last 24 hours and now Maharashtra’s death toll has risen to 93,198.Friday's tally marks a slight dip from the 21,273 Covid-19 cases recorded on Thursday, marking the ninth consecutive day of the state recording less than 30,000 daily infections. Maharashtra also recorded a negligible dip in its daily death toll—425 fatalities were reported on Thursday as compared to Friday’s 424.Mumbai recorded 924 new Covid-19 cases and now the capital city’s caseload stands at 702,522, according to the bulletin. Mumbai’s death toll now stands at 14,750 after 30 fatalities were reported in the city. On Thursday, Mumbai recorded 1258 cases of the coronavirus disease and 36 related deaths.According to the bulletin, 264,076 samples were tested on Friday, which have pushed the total number of samples tested till date to 34,350,186 and marks an increase from the 261,151 samples tested a day before.The Maharashtra government announced on Thursday that its home isolation policy was being terminated in districts with a high Covid-19 positivity rate. “We are now setting up Covid-19 Care Centres at village and tehsil levels. Infected patients should be isolated at these centres," state health minister Rajesh Tope said on Thursday.Vaccination is also being ramped up in districts that have recorded low levels of inoculation, the minister said, adding that some districts have recorded as high as 60% inoculations while some are lagging behind with just 3% of their population being vaccinated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-records-20-740-fresh-cases-of-covid-19-death-toll-reaches-93-198-with-424-fresh-fatalities-101622211536962.html
28-05-2021||India||Vijayan writes to PM Modi; urges him for continuous supply of Covid-19 vaccines||Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Friday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi asking him to take measures for a continuous supply of the vaccines against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) so that the pace of the state can fully utilise its potential to inoculate people."We have a total target of covering 1.12 crore population above 45 years and we have been able to cover only 49 percent of this group with at least one dose. So far, we have received 85,47,930 doses of the Covid-19 vaccine (after reducing the doses given to AFMS and Mahe) and are expected to receive another 5.28 lakh doses as per the fortnight schedule shared by the Ministry," Vijayan said in his letter to PM Modi, according to ANI.He said that one-half of the state’s population who are above the age of 45 are yet to be given at least one dose. "Only 22 per cent of those who received the first dose have received the second dose so far. Similarly, in the case of the 18-44 years group, we have a total of 1.5 crore beneficiaries," he said.Vijayan said that based on this target and the state's action plan, it had placed a purchase order for 1 crore doses of Covid-19 vaccine for the month of May, but have received only 884,000. "Because of this supply, we have been forced not to open vaccination for all. Instead, we have made priority groups and are now giving the vaccine to those with comorbidities and certain frontline categories only," he added.The Kerala chief minister said that so far, 57,666 doses have been administered in this category. "As you are aware, we were doing 2.5 lakhs vaccination per day when the vaccine supply was regular. Now due to the limited supply, we are not able to fully utilise the potential of our system," he further said.Vijayan claimed that the pace of coverage has drastically come down, adding that people are also apprehensive of the slow pace of vaccination drive. "Hence, I would request you to kindly take measures for a continuous supply of vaccines, so that the balance vaccines can be supplied matching with the pace of Kerala's vaccination potential," he said.Kerala on Thursday recorded 24,166 Covid-19 cases, taking the state’s caseload to 24,18,529 and its death toll to 8063 after 181 people succumbed to the viral disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vijayan-writes-to-pm-modi-urges-him-for-continuous-supply-of-covid-19-vaccines-101622207575457.html
28-05-2021||India||After Mamata skips Yaas review meet with PM Modi, BJP’s Nadda hits out at ‘petty politics’||Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP’s) national president Jagat Prakash Nadda on Friday criticised Mamata Banerjee after the West Bengal chief minister gave a miss to a meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi to review the impact of Cyclone Yaas, which hit her state and the neighbouring Odisha earlier this week. Nadda said "Mamata ji should also set aside her ego" and pointed out that the Prime Minister has been in touch with chief ministers of states, irrespective of party affiliations, to help the people impacted by Yaas, which killed at least five people and left a trail of destruction in Odisha, Bengal and Jharkhand.“When Hon PM Shri @narendramodi stands strong with the citizens of West Bengal in wake of cyclone Yaas, Mamata ji should also set aside her ego for the welfare of people. Her absence from the PM’s meeting is murder of constitutional ethos & the culture of cooperative federalism,” Nadda said in a post on Twitter.“PM @narendramodi ji holds the principle of Cooperative federalism very sacred & has been actively working with all CMs irrespective of party to give relief to the people. Unsurprisingly @MamataOfficial's tactics & petty politics has once again came to haunt the people of Bengal,” he also tweeted.When Hon PM Shri @narendramodi stands strong with the citizens of West Bengal in wake of cyclone Yaas, Mamata ji should also set aside her ego for the welfare of people. Her absence from the PM’s meeting is murder of constitutional ethos & the culture of cooperative federalism.News agency ANI reported citing people familiar with the developments that the West Bengal chief minister and the state’s chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay were late to the meeting by almost half an hour. ANI cited the people mentioned above that she handed over the reports related to the impact of Cyclone Yaas and left saying that she has other meetings lined up.On her part, Mamata Banerjee said she could not attend the review meeting with Prime Minister Modi as she was scheduled to meet with officials in another area of the state. “The Prime Minister called a meeting. We did not know that I had a meeting scheduled in Digha. I handed him the report asking for ₹20,000 crore for Digha development and ₹10,000 crore for Sundarban development. I told him that state government officials had a meeting with me so I took his permission and left,” Mamata Banerjee said, according to news agency ANI.“After having review meetings in Hingalganj & Sagar, I met the Hon’ble PM in Kalaikunda & apprised him regarding the post-cyclone situation in WB. The disaster report has been handed over for his perusal. I’ve proceeded now to review the relief & restoration work at Digha,” Mamata also tweeted.Also read | ‘Took his permission’: Mamata on skipping Yaas review meeting with PM ModiMamata Banerjee said she submitted a report to PM Modi on the damages caused by Cyclone Yaas in the state and sought a ₹20,000-crore package for redevelopment of the worst-affected areas. "We have sought a package of ₹10,000 crore each for the redevelopment of Digha and the Sunderbans... It could well be that we might not get anything," she said following an administrative meeting held in the tourist town of Digha.Also watch | Cyclone Yaas: PM Modi reviews damages of storm-hit areas in OdishaModi also flew down to Odisha to review the post-cyclone situation before going to West Bengal, where the storm wreaked havoc in the coastal districts. A release issued by the Prime Minister's Office (PMO) said PM Modi announced a financial assistance of ₹1,000 crore for immediate relief activities. “ ₹500 crore would be immediately given to Odisha. Another ₹500 crore has been announced for West Bengal and Jharkhand, which will be released on the basis of the damage. The Union Government will deploy an inter-ministerial team to visit the states to assess the extent of damage, based on which further assistance will be given," the statement said.Also read | Cyclone Yaas: PM Modi announces ₹500 cr package for OdishaThe PM also announced ₹200,000 as ex-gratia for those who lost a family member and ₹50,000 for those seriously injured in the cyclone, the release said.Cyclone 'Yaas' rampaged through parts of India's eastern coast on Wednesday, forcing millions of people to be evacuated to safe shelters in West Bengal, Odisha and Jharkhand. Heavy rainfall was reported at several places under the impact of the cyclone in all the three states on Thursday. More rains are expected to hit these states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-mamata-skips-yaas-review-meet-with-pm-modi-nadda-hits-out-at-petty-politics-101622208056221.html
28-05-2021||India||Covid-19: Telangana begins vaccination for high risk groups||The Telangana government on Friday launched mass Covid-19 vaccination for high risk groups, including accredited journalists, across the state.Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar who visited a few vaccination centres here told reporters that more than 1.4 lakh people in the districts will be administered vaccine over the next three days during the special drive.Similarly 32 centres have been set up in Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) area, which will operate for seven days, where around 30,000 people will be vaccinated daily, he said.He said the vaccination centres will start work from 8 AM daily and street vendors and those working in pesticide shops and other kirana shops identified by officials and who are given coupons, will be given the shots as no walk-ins are allowed.A senior official earlier said that about 7.75 lakh people are in the high risk groups and vaccination will be done for them during the special drive from May 28 to 30.Those who are in regularly on the move and in contact with people such as vegetable and fruit vendors, cab and auto drivers and barbers, among others, fall into the category of high risk groups.An official release issued by the state government on Friday said nearly 44 lakh people have received their first dose of Covid-19 vaccination, while over 13 lakh got the second jab also.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-telangana-begins-vaccination-for-high-risk-groups-101622208081339.html
28-05-2021||India||Covid-19: Arunachal Pradesh extends lockdown in 7 districts till June 7||The Arunachal Pradesh government on Friday decided to extend the lockdown in seven districts till June 7 following a surge in Covid-19 cases, senior officials said.The lockdown in the Itanagar capital region, Tawang, Lower Subansiri, Namsai, Upper Subansiri, Lohit, and Anjaw districts was to end on May 31.The decision was taken at the State Disaster Management Authority (SDMA) meeting, held under the chairmanship of Chief Minister Pema Khandu, to assess the coronavirus situation and review the preparedness of the state.Taking to Twitter, the chief minister said, "Following deliberations, it was clear that Arunachal Pradesh is yet to come out of the danger zone and we must continue to take strict measures to contain the spread of the disease and save precious lives."In greater public interest, we must all continue to take evidence and science-based decisions in tailoring our public health response."The meeting also decided to identify one health facility in every assembly constituency for upgrading it with the necessary equipment, officials said.Steps are being taken to create 1,000 oxygen beds by July, besides upgrading the six 100 litres per minute (LPM) PSA plants in Ziro, Tawang, Tezu, Yingkiong, Seppa, and Aalo.The meeting agreed to make the 500 LPM Pressure Swing Adsorption (PSA) oxygen plant functional at the Dedicated Covid Hospital (DCH) in Chimpu, near here, besides setting up 600 LPM plants in 19 hospitals and approved liquid medical oxygen (LMO) storage units at five strategic locations.It was also decided to ramp up the number of oxygen beds at Tomo Riba Institute of Health and Medical Sciences (TRIHMS) at Naharlagun near here, and at DCH Chimpu, the officials said.Over three lakh people have been vaccinated in the northeastern state and there are plans to inoculate more than 1.5 lakh people in the next 30 days.It was also decided that massive testing, tracking, and treating would be vigorously taken up to curb the spread of the disease.The state has enough stock of essential medicines, they said.At least 444 more people tested positive for Covid-19 in Arunachal Pradesh, pushing the tally in the northeastern state to 25,820, a senior health department official said on Friday.The death toll rose to 109 after two more persons succumbed to the infection in the last 24 hours, State Surveillance Officer (SSO) Dr Lobsang Jampa said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-arunachal-pradesh-extends-lockdown-in-7-districts-till-june-7-101622207520973.html
28-05-2021||India||Covaxin manufacturing to vaccination takes 4 months, says Bharat Biotech||Manufacturing to supply of Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin involves four months of lag time depending on technology and regulatory approvals, Bharat Biotech said on Friday. "The timeline for manufacturing, testing and release for a batch of Covaxin is approximately 120 days, depending on the technology framework and regulatory guidelines to be met. Thus, production batches of Covaxin that were initiated during March this year will be ready for supply only during the month of June," the vaccine maker said in a press release. Bharat Biotech's clarification comes at a time when the country is facing a shortage of Covid-19 vaccines, leading to disruptions in the nationwide inoculation programme. "There is a four-month lag time forCovaxinto translate into actual vaccination," it said. The manufacturing, testing, release and distribution of vaccines are complex and multi-factorial processes with hundreds of steps, requiring a diverse pool of human resources, the firm said. For vaccines to result in actual vaccination of people, highly coordinated efforts are required from international supply chains, manufacturers, regulators and State and Central government agencies, it said. Production scale-up of vaccines is a step-by-step process, involving several regulatory SOPs of GMP (Standard Operating Procedures of Good Manufacturing Practices), Bharat Biotech said. Based on Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) guidelines, all vaccines supplied in India are mandated by law to be submitted for testing and release to the Central Drugs Laboratory, Government of India. All batches of vaccines supplied to State and Central Governments are based on the allocation framework received from the Centre, the company said. The timeline forvaccine supplies to reach the depots of the State and Central Governments from Bharat Biotechs facilities is around two days. The vaccines received at these depots have to be further distributed by the State Governments to various districts within their respective states. This requires an additional number of days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covaxin-manufacturing-to-vaccination-takes-4-months-says-bharat-biotech-101622205484720.html
28-05-2021||India||'Respond to market changes': PETA India tells Amul produce vegan milk||People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) India has asked Amul to make a decision to switch to producing vegan milk.In a letter to Amul Managing Director R S Sodhi, PETA said the dairy cooperative society should get benefitted from the booming vegan food and milk market.“We would again like to encourage Amul to benefit from the booming vegan food and milk market, instead of wasting resources trying to fight the demand for plant-based products that is only growing. Other companies are responding to market changes, and Amul can too,” PETA India said.Sodhi, while replying to a tweet by Ashwini Mahajan, national co-convener of Swadeshi Jagran Manch, said, “Don't you know dairy farmers are mostly landless. Your designs may kill their only source of livelihood. Mind it milk is in our faith, our traditions, our taste, our food habits an easy and always available source of nutrition."Amul is an Indian dairy cooperative society managed by the Gujarat Co-operative Milk Marketing Federation Ltd.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/respond-to-market-changes-peta-india-tells-amul-produce-vegan-milk-101622205016901.html
28-05-2021||India||Kerala HC declines to stay new draft regulation in Lakshadweep||The Kerala high court on Friday declined to stay the draft Lakshadweep Development Authority Regulation and sent notices to the Centre and the Union Territory administration in response to Congress leader KP Noushad Ali’s plea against the regulation, which has triggered protests. Ali has pleaded the regulation will destroy the unique culture and tradition of the Arabian Sea archipelago. He has said it gives sweeping, arbitrary, and unchecked powers to Lakshadweep’s administration and will even affect possession and retention of property by islanders.Also Read | Understanding the discontent in Lakshadweep: An explainerAli’s lawyer sought an interim stay. But a division bench of Justices K Vinod Chandran and M R Anitha observed this was a policy matter and all parties should get a chance to put forth their views before issuing the notices. The court, which has jurisdiction over Lakshadweep, posted the hearing in the matter after two weeks.Lakshadweep has been in the eye of a political storm after the Union Territory’s new administrator, Praful Khoda Patel, issued a set of orders and brought in new rules and regulations. Congress and Communist Party of India-Marxist have written to the President urging him to recall the administrator. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, Nationalist Congress Party chief Sharad Pawar and Tamil Nadu chief minister MK Stalin have also backed the call.Local residents have been protesting over new norms for the last three months. Critics see new regulations as a threat to the cultural identity of the people of Lakshadweep, where close to 95% population is Muslim and the ecology is sensitive.Askar Ali, Lakshadweep’s collector, has defended new rules and said people with vested interests were spreading misinformation with ulterior motives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-hc-declines-to-stay-new-draft-regulation-in-lakshadweep-101622204902206.html
28-05-2021||India||Covid-induced recruiting slump likely to affect skills, employability||Lack of on-site internship experiences, prolonged closure of educational institutes restricting access to the lab and practical work, switch to digital mode of learning and Covid-induced recruiting slump are likely to affect the skills and employability of students currently studying professional courses.Education institutions have mostly been shut for regular classes since March last year. Last November, students were allowed to return to the campuses in a staggered manner only for research, practical, and laboratory work in accordance with Covid-19 guidelines laid down by University Grants Commission (UGC). However, even before the work could have resumed on the campuses, the second wave of Covid-19 hit the country, and education institutions were again closed for students in April.In the last 14 months, while colleges and universities have switched to the online mode for classes and exams, they were hard-pressed to find a digital alternative for research work, hands-on skill training and laboratory work, and compulsory internship components of some courses. Several university officials feared that the lack of industry experience and expertise may affect the recruitment process in the coming years.Impact on internships and job opportunitiesThe pandemic situation did not allow thousands of students to join internships and on-field training, which are essential for them to polish their skills for future job opportunities. Many of them ended up joining online internships.Aparnendu Tripathi, a final-year student of civil engineering at Delhi Technical University (DTU), said, “Internships help us understand how workspaces function, observe the flow of work, deal with manpower and resources on the field. For civil and mechanical engineering students, particularly, missed being on the field. The online mode wasn’t helpful in acquiring those skills.”Also Read | No jobs, fear of third wave may keep migrants awayMohammad Usman Siddiqui, a final-year engineering student at Jamia Millia Islamia, said students are worried as the lack of offline internships may affect the recruitment process. “For mechanical and civil engineering, candidates need to be in the field and the lack of experience during internship also affects recruitment. Of the 88 students in my batch, only four students have been placed so far,” said Siddiqui, who has not been placed yet.Siddiqui added the rise in “pool drive” recruitment was also affecting the number of students hired from a particular college or university.Explaining the meaning of the “pool drive” system, Hena Singh, the in-charge of Delhi University’s (DU) central placement cell, said, “Earlier, companies would register with the university and that would offer a level-playing field for all DU students from every college. Now, they are opting for consultancy firms or agencies that connect them to students which means employers can pick if they want to opt for campus colleges or off-campus colleges. Companies also do not have to agree to the base salary proposed by universities if they approach students via these agencies as compared to university placement cells.”Singh said the central placement cell had arranged for around 1,400 internships till May – fewer than previous years when the university arranged around 3,000-4,000. “The second wave of Covid meant several families and students were affected by it. Many wanted either paid internships or could not enrol for training because of their situation at home. This too added to the lack of industry experience,” she said.Officials at several universities said even as the number of placements and internship offers in the IT and digital sector has gone up, some sectors have been severely affected amid the pandemic in terms of job opportunities.Nisha Singh, placement officer with Guru Gobind Singh Indraprastha University or IP University, said, “The manufacturing sector and the core branches of engineering including mechanical and civil have been affected by the pandemic situation since there are no jobs available. Last year we also witnessed the same. We had started some drive in March and April for students pursuing these courses but then again the lockdown was imposed.”Also Read | At the United Nations, Delhi showcases its women powerSingh said that the journalism students at the University are getting internship opportunities only from online news portals or content management companies. “The jobs are less in comparison to the regular time,” she said.Blow to technical and skill-based learningMayank Kumar, a student of mechanical engineering at Netaji Subhas University of Technology (NSUT), said, “Most of our course is based on practicals and laboratory work. It’s been over 13-14 months that we could not resume work offline. Even as the university is conducting online practical classes, it feels we are completing the course for the sake of it. I have no idea how we will fill this gap.”Several other students pursuing courses that require extensive on-field experience also shared the same concern. Sanjh Sharma, a final year student of multimedia course at IP University, said, “Generally students pursue internships during summer and winter breaks or do individual projects such as filmmaking during this time. We could not get any such experience. We are in fact doing all our photography and videography assignments at home. Not all of us have high-end laptops and devices to practice editing. What will I do even if I get an internship?”Manasvini Yogi, OSD, Delhi School of Journalism, DU, said, “We could not give them field reporting assignments due to the pandemic. We had online assignments and workshops, but it cannot compensate for the practical experience,” she said.Also Read | Covid-19 and the disease of inequalityNot just technical courses, but field research has also been hit. Sonali Garg, 33, a post-doctoral researcher in the Department of Environmental Studies of Delhi University, said with the rise in Covid-19 cases across the country, researchers fear another “drought” of work. “My research work involves amphibians – mainly frogs, which are seasonal animals. We collect raw data from the field, come back to the lab and then do molecular research. Last year, we could neither visit the field nor the labs. This year, I took a health risk and travelled to a site to collect raw data. But it didn’t work out as planned. We had thought that work may resume this year but with the rising cases, it becomes uncertain. Since my research is funded by external agencies, I have a timeline and research targets to meet. That has gone for a toss due to Covid-19,” she said.Officials at some universities said that the Covid-19 pandemic prompted many students to choose higher education over jobs to brush up their skills and fill the gaps.Rihan Suri, placement officer at Jamia Millia Islamia, said, “Many students are opting for higher education to build on their skillset for two years or are changing their fields to sectors that are now hiring...Students haven’t been able to come to university regularly and practical knowledge for professional courses has taken a hit. This will affect the experience and quality of trained professionals in the coming years. This can be compensated when the situation is better as students are more into self-training now.”Meanwhile, DTU has used innovative methods to help students. Rajesh Rohilla, head of training and placement, said the varsity conducted in-house training for around 800 students involving faculty members and industry experts in addition to the online internships.“The industrial training component of students coincided with the first and second waves of Covid in the country. This left an impact on their training and skills. To address this, we organised the in-house training wherein students developed projects using simulation and available digital tools to gather as much experience as they can,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covidinduced-recruiting-slump-likely-to-affect-skills-employability-101622203522547.html
28-05-2021||India||Covid-19 vaccine shortage temporary problem, says CoWIN head RS Sharma||The head of the CoWIN platform RS Sharma said on Friday the vaccination drive against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) for people between age 18-45 years will pick up the pace soon and that the shortage of doses is a temporary problem.Sharma, who is also the chairperson of the empowered committee on Covid-19 vaccination, said the problem with vaccination is occurring specifically for people belonging to that particular age group. “The system is inclusive. The fact that more than half of the population who are aged above 45 years are walk-in registrations who have gotten vaccinated. This is a temporary problem,” Sharma was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Delhi, Jharkhand and Punjab have said in the last two days that they had to stop their vaccination drives due to a shortage of doses. Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren on Thursday said that the state was facing an acute shortage of vaccines with doses for the 18-44 age group almost over. Delhi MLA Atishi said the Capital had to suspend the vaccination drive for the fourth day in a row for people aged between 18-45 years. Punjab expanded its vaccination priority list to include citizens employed in the hospitality sector, shopkeepers and their staff, industrial workers, street vendors, delivery boys, bus and cab drivers, conductors and members of local bodies as chief minister Amarinder Singh highlighted the state’s acute shortage of vaccines.The Union ministry of health and family welfare said on Friday that the states have at least 18.4 million vaccine doses and said that the Centre provided 224.6 million doses free of cost to the states. It also said that it will provide states and Union Territories with three lakh vaccine doses. Union minister Prakash Javadekar on Friday at least 1.08 billion people will be vaccinated against the coronavirus disease by December 2021. India has vaccinated 202.1 million people so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-vaccine-shortage-temporary-problem-says-cowin-head-rs-sharma-101622202672515.html
28-05-2021||India||News updates from HT: PM announces ₹500 crore package for Odisha in aftermath of Cyclone Yaas and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Cyclone Yaas: PM Modi announces ₹500 cr package for OdishaPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday announced financial assistance worth ₹500 crore to Odisha in the aftermath of Cyclone Yaas. He said the Centre will deploy an inter-ministerial team to visit Odisha and West Bengal to assess the extent of damage, based on which further assistance will be granted. Read moreRemove GST from essential drugs used in fight against Covid-19: Priyanka GandhiCongress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Friday urged the Centre to remove Goods and Services Tax (GST) charged on all life-saving medicines and equipment used to treat the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), reiterating her party’s stand. Read more68% jump in Take Home Ration scheme beneficiaries since last year: DCPCRAround 91% of the beneficiaries of the Take Home Ration scheme of the Delhi government said they received ration this year as compared to 23% during the last lockdown, a survey has revealed. Read moreSyria's Bashar al-Assad wins a fourth term in a predictable landslideSyrian President Bashar Assad was re-elected in a landslide, officials said Thursday, ushering in a fourth seven-year term in the war-torn country following an election described as illegitimate and a sham by the West and his opposition. Read moreRupee gains for 3rd straight session; rises 15 paise to 72.45 against US dollarThe rupee strengthened for the third straight session on Friday and closed 15 paise higher at 72.45 (provisional) against the US dollar tracking positive domestic equities. Read moreAmitabh Bachchan buys property worth ₹31 crore, with six car parks: reportActor Amitabh Bachchan has reportedly purchased a property worth ₹31 crore. The actor bought the 5,184 sq ft property in Mumbai in December, but registered it only in April. Read more'He got job done in Australia': Panesar says India is 'more of Ravi Shastri's team than Virat Kohli's'One of the biggest reasons for Team India's recent successes has been the pairing of coach Ravi Shastri and captain Virat Kohli. The two have always appeared to be in sync over the years and both have created a winning mentality in the team. Read moreLittle girl gets a puppy as a birthday present, her reaction is priceless. WatchHave you ever pleaded with your parents to get you a puppy? And did you finally manage to convince them after promising to take care of it and clean up after it? If you know what that feels like, you’ll relate to this excited, little girl who just got a puppy as an early birthday present. Read more‘Kejriwal has insulted national flag’: Prahlad Patel alleges breach of Flag CodeUnion minister Prahlad Singh Patel has accused Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal of disrespecting the national flag and violating the Flag Code of India during his televised press briefings. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-pm-modi-announces-package-for-odisha-in-aftermath-of-yaas-101622200841181.html
28-05-2021||India||PM Modi reviews Cyclone Yaas’ impact, announces ₹200,000 ex gratia to victims||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday announced an ex gratia of ₹200,000 to the next of kin of those who lost their lives during Cyclone Yaas and ₹50,000 to the seriously injured in its aftermath, according to news agency ANI. PM Modi also expressed his solidarity with all those who suffered due to the cyclone and deep sorrow to the families who have lost their relatives during the calamity, ANI added citing the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO).Prime Minister Modi undertook an aerial survey in parts of Odisha and West Bengal to review the situation in the wake of Cyclone Yaas, the PMO also said. Union minister Dharmendra Pradhan accompanied him during the survey. "Today PM Narendra Modi visited Odisha and West Bengal to review the situation arising out of Cyclone Yaas. He undertook an aerial survey of the cyclone-affected areas in Bhadrak and Baleswar districts of Odisha, and Purba Medinipur in West Bengal," the PMO added.WATCH| Cyclone Yaas: PM Modi reviews damages of storm-hit areas in Odisha, conducts aerial surveyPM Modi met chief ministers of West Bengal and Odisha as well. West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee met PM Modi in Kalaikunda and submitted a preliminary report on damages caused by the cyclone, news agency PTI reported citing an official. "After having review meetings in Hingalganj and Sagar, I met the Honourable PM in Kalaikunda and apprised him regarding the post-cyclone situation in West Bengal. The disaster report has been handed over for his perusal. I have proceeded now to review the relief and restoration work at Digha," Banerjee tweeted after the meeting.Earlier in the day, PM Modi held a review meeting with Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik and other officials of the state administrations to assess the impact of Cyclone Yaas.Cyclone Yaas made landfall on Wednesday morning near Dhamra port in Odisha, at 130-140kmph, gusting to 155kmph. The cyclone impacted East Medinipur, West Medinipur, Bankura, South 24 Parganas and Jhargram districts in West Bengal and Balasore, Bhadrak, Jagatsinghpur, Kendrapara, Jajpur, Keonjhar and Mayurbhanj in Odisha. At least two persons have died in Odisha, two in Jharkhand and one in Bengal due to Cyclone Yaas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-reviews-cyclone-yaas-impact-announces-rs-200-000-ex-gratia-to-victims-101622196091552.html
28-05-2021||India||PM lauds TRS MP for his initiative to increase green cover||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has lauded Rajya Sabha MP Joginapalli Santosh Kumar for his Green India Challenge. Started by the 44-year-old Telangana Rashtra Samithi MP, the intiative aims to encourage tree plantation to improve green cover in the state. In a letter to Santosh, as the MP is popularly known, the Prime Minister said it was the individual and collective responsibility of every citizen to leave behind a green footprint for posterity. “Endeavours like Green India Challenge, aimed at increasing the green cover through planting of saplings can succeed only through people’s participation,” Modi said in his letter that Santosh received on Friday. Santosh launched the Green India Challenge – with “Hara Hai Toh Bhara Hai” slogan, in July 2018 on social media, tagging people to plant a sapling, and then challenging three others to do the same to continue the chain. Also Read | PM Modi meets Odisha CM Patnaik, reviews post Cyclone Yaas damagesThe campaign went viral within no time, as politicians, officials, sports persons, celebrities from Telugu, Tamil, Malayalam, Kannada, and Hindi film industry took up the challenge and posted pictures on social media. “More than 130 million trees have been planted by people who responded to campaign till now,” Santosh said. The Prime Minister said Indians had always peacefully co-existed with nature. The inherent love and respect for nature has been an integral part of our heritage. “Our deep reverence for Mother Earth is reflected through such sayings as “Mata Bhoomi: Putroham Prithivyah:” (Earth is my mother and I am her son),” he said. He also appreciated the book titled “Vriksha Vedam,” brought out by Santosh as part of the Green India Challenge. He said the book would educate people about the holistic relationship between mankind and nature. Santosh said such words of encouragement will go a long way in taking the campaign further.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-lauds-trs-mp-for-his-initiative-to-increase-green-cover-101622198352264.html
28-05-2021||India||DRDO's anti-Covid drug priced at ₹990/ sachet; Centre, states to get discounts||Defence Research and Development Organisation's (DRDO) anti-Covid-19 drug will be sold at ₹990 per sachet by Dr Reddy's Laboratories (DRL), officials said on Friday. The Hyderabad-based pharma company, however, will provide the medicine to Centre and state government at a discounted price.The first batch of DRDO's anti-Covid-19 drug was released on May 17 by Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan, after the Drugs Controller General of India permitted the emergency use authorisation of 2-deoxy-D-glucose (2-DG), anti-viral drug as an adjunct therapy for moderate to severe coronavirus patients.In April last year when the pandemic broke out, scientists of Institute of Nuclear Medicine and Allied Sciences (INMAS), a lab of DRDO conducted laboratory experiments with the help of the Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB), Hyderabad in collaboration with DRL and found that this molecule works effectively against the SARS-CoV-2 virus and inhibits viral growth.The 2-DG drug comes in powder form in the sachet, which is taken orally by dissolving it in water.It accumulates in the virus-infected cells and prevents virus growth by stopping viral synthesis and energy production. Its selective accumulation in virally infected cells makes this drug unique.The drug reportedly reduces a patient's average recovery time by two and a half days and oxygen demand by upto 40 per cent, the Union Health Ministry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/drdos-anti-covid-drug-priced-at-rs-990-sachet-centre-states-to-get-discounts-101622197665666.html
28-05-2021||India||Remove GST from essential drugs, equipment used in fight against Covid-19: Priyanka Gandhi urges Centre||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Friday urged the Centre to remove Goods and Services Tax (GST) charged on all life-saving medicines and equipment used to treat the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), reiterating her party’s stand. “In today’s GST Council meet, the government should remove GST from all life saving medicines and equipment that are being used to fight Covid,” Gandhi tweeted.Gandhi shared a list of 15 items on Twitter, including alcohol-based hand sanitisers, hand wash, soaps, cotton mask, PPE kits, disinfectants, thermometers, non-cotton face masks, medical-grade oxygen, vaccines, testing kits etc, stating that imposing GST on essential products like these during a global pandemic is “cruel and insensitive”. “Imposing GST on essential medical products like oxygen, ventilators, vaccines and medicines during a pandemic is cruel and insensitive,” Gandhi added.Her tweets come as Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman is chairing the virtual meeting of the GST Council on Friday. The Union ministry of finance tweeted that the minister of state for finance Anurag Thakur along with finance ministers and senior officials of states and Union territories (UT) will be attending the 43rd GST Council meeting. The council is meeting after a gap of eight months.Congress has been asking for a removal of GST levied on essential goods and medicines and joining its chorus are the finance ministers of states like Rajasthan, Punjab, Chhattisgarh, Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra, Jharkhand, Kerala and West Bengal. These states have formulated a joint strategy to press for a zero tax rate on Covid essentials, PTI reported on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/remove-gst-from-essential-drugs-equipment-used-in-fight-against-covid-19-priyanka-gandhi-urges-centre-101622194369080.html
28-05-2021||India||India to vaccinate all citizens against Covid-19 by December 2021, says Union minister Javadekar||Union minister Prakash Javadekar said on Friday all Indians will be vaccinated against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) by the end of this year as he criticised Congress leader Rahul Gandhi for saying that only 3 per cent of India’s population is inoculated.https://t.co/MWLBLLDcoF“The health ministry last week made it clear that within December the nation will produce 216 crore doses of Covid-19 vaccines which means that at least 108 crore people will be able to get their jabs. So, Rahul Gandhi should understand that India will vaccinate all by December 2021,” Javadekar said during a press conference.Earlier in the day, Rahul Gandhi criticised the Centre during his press conference and claimed the current pace of its vaccination drive will further lead to multiple waves of Covid-19 and India will be able to vaccinate everyone only by May 2024.The Wayanad parliamentarian's press conference led to a war of words between the Congress and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) after he held Prime Minister Narendra Modi responsible for the damage caused during the second wave of coronavirus pandemic in the country. "He is responsible for the second wave of Covid-19," Gandhi said. The Congress leader also called PM Modi an 'event manager'.Javadekar also attacked Rahul Gandhi for using the word nautanki or drama in Hindi during his press conference. The Union minister said that using such terms while the nation faces a crisis is akin to insulting the efforts of the government to contain the pandemic.“India has administered 20 crore vaccines so far and ranks second in terms of jabs administered. If Rahul Gandhi is indeed worried about vaccination rates, he should concentrate on how Congress-governed states are conducting their respective vaccination drives. Those states have not been able to vaccinate people aged between 18-45 years even though quotas were assigned to them,” Javadekar added.Javadekar, who is the Union minister of environment, information and broadcasting, also took a jab at Gandhi over a document, which the BJP claims was made by Congress in a bid to defame PM Modi and attack the government over its handling of the second wave of Covid-19, an allegation which Congress has denied."Vaccines are being produced and by December 216 crore doses will be administered, but one thing is clear and one does not require proof that the 'toolkit' is created by you," Javadekar said.Javadekar also said that the Covid-19 vaccination programme is robust and will successfully vaccinate every citizen.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-to-vaccinate-all-against-covid-19-by-december-2021-says-javadekar-101622194097804.html
28-05-2021||India||Sputnik V Covid vaccine to be rolled out at ₹1,195 in Apollo hospitals||Apollo Group of Hospitals has announced that it will start administering the Russian Covid-19 vaccine Sputnik V, across its hospitals in India from the second week of June, at an estimated price of ₹1,195 per dose."We will be charging ₹995 for the vaccine and ₹200 would be administration charges," an official of the Apollo Group said.On Thursday, Apollo Hospitals said they will start administering Sputnik V from the second week of June.In a statement, Executive Vice-chairperson Shobana Kamineni of the Apollo Group of Hospitals said that the group has completed administering one million vaccine doses across 80 locations in India, and will prioritise frontline workers, high-risk population, and corporate employees.Giving details on ramping up their vaccination programme, Kamineni said, "In June, we will do a million every week and double that in July. We are on track to complete 20 million jabs by September this year."India is moving towards vaccine sufficiency as inoculations with the Russian vaccine Sputnik V began in the country earlier this month.As reported earlier, India and Russia are planning to manufacture around 35-40 million doses every month that will start from August or September.On May 24, the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) and Panacea Biotec, one of the leading pharmaceutical producers in India, had launched the production of the Sputnik V Covid-19 vaccine.Sputnik V got approval from the Subject expert committee (SEC) for Emergency Use Authorisation (EUA), making it the third COVID-19 vaccine to get clearance in India.India has become the 60th country to authorise the use of the Russian vaccine against coronavirus. It is now approved in countries with a total population of 3 billion, or 40 percent of the world's population.Under the Centre's liberalised vaccination policy, the private sector hospitals have earned a crucial role as they can directly procure the doses from manufacturers and administer them to the eligible beneficiaries. The beneficiaries, however, need to register themselves for the jabs through the CoWin platform.Sputnik V was registered in India under emergency use authorization procedure on April 12 and vaccination against coronavirus with the Russian vaccine started on May 14.Earlier, while highlighting the Sputnik V progress, deputy chief of mission Roman Babushkin, told ANI, "Sputnik V is one of the vaccines which is included in the Indian mass vaccination drive and it speaks for itself. This company (Panacea Biotec) is one of the Indian partners which the Russian Direct Investment Fund and is developing a business partnership. The preliminary schedule is gradually is to reach 850 million doses in India per year. We know that there is interest from other business partners and even state governments, all these proposals we are studying very carefully."Talking about the status of the single-dose vaccine 'Sputnik lite', the Russian envoy had said promotion in India and distribution would be very helpful.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sputnik-v-covid-vaccine-to-be-rolled-out-at-rs-1-195-in-apollo-hospitals-101622193250511.html
28-05-2021||India||Puducherry's Covid-19 tally climbs to 101,900; 1,223 new cases added||Puducherry logged 1,223 new coronavirus cases during the last 24 hours taking the overall tally to 101,900, a senior official of the Department of Health and Family Welfare Services said on Friday.Twenty-one more people succumbed to the virus during the last 24 ending 10 AM Friday, Director of Health and Family Welfare Services S Mohan Kumar said.The Puducherry region accounted for 15 fatalities followed by Karaikal (5) and Yanam (1) as the toll rose to 1,476.Twelve of the 21 deceased had no comorbidities.The 1,223 new cases were identified at the end of the examination of 9,012 samples putting the test positivity rate at 13.5 per cent, he said.Mohan Kumar said the total number of Covid-19 cases in the Union Territory stood at 101,900.The number of active cases were 13,896 with 1,690 in hospitals and remaining 12,206 in home isolation.As many as 1,779 people were discharged from hospitals after recovery during the last 24 hours.He said 10.25 lakh samples were tested so far and of them 8.89 lakh were found to be negative.The total number of recoveries so far were 86,528.The Director said that fatality and recovery rates were 1.45 per cent and 84.91 per cent respectively.The Health department Director said that 34,496 healthcare workers and 21,451 frontline workers have been inoculated so far in the Union Territory.The Department has vaccinated so far 147,548 people coming under the category of either senior citizens (60 years and above) or those who are 45 years and above with comorbidities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/puducherrys-covid-19-tally-climbs-to-101-900-1-223-new-cases-added-101622193016549.html
28-05-2021||India||International passengers flights to remain suspended till June 30: DGCA||The Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) said on Friday international passengers flights will remain suspended till June 30 but the restriction will not apply to international all-cargo operations and flights specifically approved by the aviation regulator. The ban has been in place since March last year.The suspension of scheduled international passenger flights was last extended till May 31 amid the coronavirus pandemic. However, special international flights have been operating under the Centre’s Vande Bharat Mission since May 2020 and under bilateral "air bubble" arrangements with selected countries since July last year.All scheduled international flights were restricted on March 23 last year in wake of the coronavirus pandemic and continue to be banned. However, various international flights were operationalised under bilateral air bubble agreements that India signed with several nations for the unhindered movement of passengers.India has formed air bubble pacts with 27 countries including the US, the UK, the UAE, Kenya, Bhutan and France. Under an air bubble pact between two countries, special international flights can be operated by their airlines between their territories.Given the rise in Covid-19 cases during the second wave of the pandemic, several countries have banned flights from India under the air bubble pact till the situation improves.India's Covid-19 tally on Friday reached over 27.5 million with 186,364 fresh cases and 3660, fatalities over 24 hours. The caseload has now gone up to 27,555,457 and the death toll stands at 318,895, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/international-passengers-flights-to-remain-suspended-till-june-30-says-dgca-101622193404444.html
28-05-2021||India||Form a Covid panel to beat the virus: Rahul Gandhi to PM Modi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday asked Narendra Modi to form a panel that is mandated to meet daily to interact with top experts to devise strategies for India’s battle against Covid even as he blamed the Prime Minister for the second wave of the pandemic.At a virtual press conference on Covid, Gandhi asked the government to stop the blame game and procure vaccines from wherever it can. He pointed out the US has vaccinated 50% of its population and even countries such as Brazil are ahead of India. “At this rate, we can vaccinate our entire population only by 2024.”Gandhi sought the setting up of the panel, saying the strategy so far has been completely wrong. “The RSS [Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh]-BJP [Bharatiya Janata Party] do not allow the PM [Prime Minister] to get any information. He should form a panel that would meet daily and talk to experts to make the strategy.” He asked Modi to involve others as well.Also Read | Rahul Gandhi seeks withdrawal of sweeping Lakshadweep regulationsGandhi blamed the Centre for having kept the door wide open for the virus to circulate and added various stakeholders need to be on the same page to keep it out. “If [Chhattisgarh chief minister] Bhupesh Baghel, [his West Bengal counterpart] Mamata Banerjee and Modi are on the same page, coronavirus can be kept out,” he said. “Many people and I had been giving non-stop warnings against Covid. But the PM declared victory, saying Covid has been defeated.”Gandhi said the problem is that the government and the PM did not even understand that Covid-19 is an evolving disease. “The more you give time and space to the virus, the more dangerous it becomes,” he said. He emphasised that only the vaccine is a permanent solution while lockdown, masks, and social distancing are temporary solutions. “I told the PM, if you do not implement vaccine strategy properly, Covid waves will continue to come. There will be fourth, fifth, sixth waves too,” he said.There was no immediate response from the government or the BJP to Gandhi’s comments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/form-a-covid-panel-to-beat-the-virus-rahul-gandhi-to-pm-modi-101622192951743.html
28-05-2021||India||Zydus introduces scratch code in critical drug packs to fight counterfeit menace||Drug firm Zydus Cadila on Friday said it has introduced a new feature in the packaging of its critical drugs to help patients ensure that the product is not fake or counterfeited.To start with, technology is being implemented in the company's products Remdac (Remdesivir) and Virafin Inj (Pegylated Interpheron Alpha 2b) and will be seen on the product packs in the third week of June, the drug firm said in a statement.The feature will also be extended to other products of the company, it added.The company said it has incorporated a new IT-enabled scratch code which shall be printed under a scratchable surface.The patients can check to see if the product purchased by them is genuine or not by scratching the surface and verifying the code through the app or the website, it added."The problem of counterfeit drugs undermines the painstaking efforts that are put in to ensure that the end user or patients receive a product that is safe and manufactured with the highest standards of quality excellence."Counterfeit drugs can be harmful as they may not have the desired outcome and could also be life threatening in some cases," Cadila Healthcare Managing Director Sharvil Patel noted.To curb this menace, the company has looked at a user-friendly solution which can reassure the patient that the product is genuine and safe, he added.Cadila Healthcare is the listed entity of Ahmedabad-based Zydus Cadila group which employs nearly 25,000 people worldwide, including 1,400 scientists in R&D.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/zydus-introduces-scratch-code-in-critical-drug-packs-to-fight-counterfeit-menace-101622191962512.html
28-05-2021||India||Yoga has helped many countries fight Covid-19: Minister Naik||Union AYUSH Minister Shripad Naik on Friday said public awareness on yoga created by the Modi government at the global level has helped several countries fight back the Covid-19 pandemic.The minister was addressing a group of people at the launch of a campaign to distribute 'Ayush 64' medicine, used for treating Covid-19, here.Prime Minister Narendra Modi's government began celebrating International Yoga Day (June 21) seven years back due to which there was awareness about yoga, Naik said at the event where Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant was also present.Now, many countries are recognising that they could fight Covid-19 through yoga because its benefits were propagated and explained to them, the Union minister said.He hailed the PM as a visionary leader who spread across the world knowledge about the ancient practice focusing on physical, mental and spiritual aspects of human life.Speaking on the occasion, Sawant said the state government has been taking the help of AYUSH (Ayurveda, Yoga and Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha and Homeopathy) doctors in its Covid-19 management programme.He said AYUSH clinics have been established in state- run health centres which provide guidance to people on dealing with post-coronavirus complications.Sawant, an Ayurveda practitioner, said 'Ayush 64' medicine has been approved by various authorities of the Union government.The Ayurvedic formulation would be made available through health centres as a measure against the Covid-19 spread, the Chief Minister added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/yoga-has-helped-many-countries-fight-covid-19-minister-naik-101622190673620.html
28-05-2021||India||Red alert for east UP, Bihar, Bengal and Sikkim; heavy rains predicted||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Friday issued a red alert for eastern Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, West Bengal and Sikkim as it said the remnant of Cyclone Yaas has weakened into a well-marked low-pressure area over Bihar and adjoining east UP. The cyclone made landfall in Odisha on Wednesday morning and pounded West Bengal and Jharkhand bring heavy rains.The weather bureau said will witness heavy rains, thunderstorm, lightning and strong surface winds and forecast the same for West Bengal and Sikkim. Bihar will witness heavy rains, thunderstorm, lightning, it said. “Depression (Remnant of Very Severe Cyclonic Storm “YAAS”) over Bihar & adjoining Jharkhand has weakened into a well-marked low pressure area lay over Bihar adjoining East UP at 0530 hrs IST of today the 28th May 2021,” IMD tweeted in the morning.Also watch | Indian Navy continues relief ops in storm-hit areas of OdishaPrime Minister Narendra Modi Friday reviewed the situation and damages caused by Cyclone Yaas in Odisha and held a meeting in Bhubaneswar as the state government demanded long term solutions to mitigate problems of repeated cyclones and provision of disaster resilient power systems. Odisha’s special relief commissioner (SRC) PK Jena told reporters after the meeting that the state government also sought no immediate funds to manage the expenditure incurred in disaster management.The Prime Minister left for aerial survey to the worst cyclone affected areas of Balasore and Bdahrak in Odisha, on his way to West Bengal, after the review meeting, attended by Odisha Governor Ganeshi Lal, chief minister Naveen Patnaik, two ministers Dharmendra Pradhan and Pratap Sarangi and senior officials.Also read | As Cyclone Yaas raged, pregnant woman in Odisha carried on charpoy to hospitalMeanwhile, West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee also conducted an aerial survey of cyclone-hit areas in North 24 Parganas and took stock of the situation in Hingalganj, Hasnabad, Sandeshkhali, Pinakha and other areas of the district. "I have seen that most of the areas have been inundated. Houses and large tracts of agricultural fields are under water. A field survey will also be conducted," Banerjee said, according to news agency PTI.Several areas in Purba Medinipur, South and North 24 Parganas bore the brunt of Cyclone Yaas as many places in these districts were whiplashed by heavy rains. Banerjee is also scheduled to undertake an aerial survey in cyclone-hit areas of South 24 Parganas and the coastal town of Digha in Purba Medinipur.Cyclone Yaas, packing winds gusting to 145kmph pounded parts of India’s eastern coast on Wednesday, killing at least five people and leaving behind a trail of destruction in West Bengal, Odisha and Jharkhand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/red-alert-for-east-up-bihar-bengal-and-sikkim-heavy-rains-predicted-101622190027230.html
28-05-2021||India||Delhi to start unlocking from Monday; factories, construction sites will reopen||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday said there will be gradual unlocking in the Capital starting from May 31 as the Covid-19 situation is coming under control. But Delhi will take one step at a time and will not unlock all activities as there has to be a balance between containment and the resumption of economic activities, the chief minister said. Only construction activities and factories will be reopened from Monday keeping the interest of the daily wagers in mind. Everything else will remain shut. A detailed guideline will be issued, the CM said, urging people to not come out of their houses unless absolutely necessary."The number of Covid-19 cases in Delhi is steadily coming down and the credit goes to the 2 crore people of Delhi that the second wave of the pandemic has been brought under control in a month. In the last 24 hours, around 1,100 new cases have been recorded and the positivity rate has come down to 1.5 per cent. Beds, including ICU beds, oxygen beds are also available in the city now," Kejriwal said.Also Watch | Covid crisis: Delhi CM Kejriwal charts out unlocking process, gives a warningAlso Read: Tough but crucial lockdown decision enabled Delhi to tame deadliest waveIn a meeting of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority, chaired by lieutenant governor Anil Baijal, it has been decided that the unlocking process of the Capital will begin as the ongoing lockdown continues till 5am, May 31. "The Covid-19 situation has been brought under control after much effort. The battle is still not won. The gains of the one-month lockdown should not be squandered away. So experts favour a phase-wise unlocking," Kejriwal said.Migrants from Uttar Pradesh, Bihar residing in Delhi are mostly employed at factories and construction sites, Kejriwal said explaining why the decision to open these two sectors has been taken.On further unlocking, Kejriwal said the decision will be taken every week based on public and expert opinion but only if the situation remains stable and cases do not go up again. "Nobody likes lockdown. We are not in favour of lockdown. But if Covid cases start to rise once again, then the unlocking process will have to be stopped," the chief minister said.From 10pm, April 19, Delhi went under a complete lockdown, which got extended by a week till May 31. In his last address where Kejriwal announced the extension of the lockdown till May 31, he had said that if cases do not increase, the unlocking process will be initiated.On April 20, Delhi recorded 28,395 Covid infections and the positivity rate on April 22 reached 36 per cent. The one-month lockdown, which only allowed essential services to function, the situation bettered as the daily case tally has now fallen below 2,000. On Thursdat, Delhi recorded 1,072 new cases and the lowest daily fatality since April 15 with 117 fatalities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kejriwal-says-time-has-come-for-gradual-unlocking-as-covid-cases-under-control-101622188280944.html
28-05-2021||India||Over 224.6 million Covid vaccine doses provided to states, UTs so far: Centre||The Union health ministry said on Friday that more than 224.6 million doses of the vaccines against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) have been provided to states and Union Territories (UTs) so far free of cost and through direct state procurement. It said 18,492,677 doses are still available with states and UTs to inoculate their citizens.“As part of the nationwide vaccination drive, Government of India (GoI) has been supporting states and UTs by providing them vaccines free of cost. In addition, It has also been facilitating direct procurement of vaccines by states and UTs,” the health ministry said in a statement adding 320,000 doses are in the pipeline and states and UTs will receive them in the next three days.India has so far inoculated 205,720,660 people against Covid-19 of which 27,25,111 received the first dose and 1,94,588 were inoculated with both the doses. On May 26, India crossed 200 million vaccinations in 130 days, the second country after the United States to achieve this figure, the ministry said.Also Read| India's daily Covid-19 cases fall to 186,364; death toll reaches 318,895The health ministry’s statement on Friday comes at a time when a majority of states have flagged a severe shortage of vaccine doses because of which inoculation for those between the ages of 18-44 years is currently no hold. States have also floated tenders to procure vaccines from international vaccine manufacturers on their own, but haven’t seen any success.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Wednesday that doses for all young people in the national capital were exhausted and Covaxin doses meant for senior citizens have also run out of supplies. Punjab health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said on Thursday the supplies made to the state are not at par with the actual demand and it is becoming a ‘hand to mouth’ situation every day. Rajasthan has also claimed that the Centre is not providing sufficient doses and urged the latter to float a global tender to make doses available for all states. The Congress-led government in the state warned that it will approach the Supreme Court if the Centre fails to do so.Also Read| Covid-19 vaccine: What states claim about crunch in supplyThe Centre and states have also engaged in a squabble over the wastage of vaccine doses. The Union health ministry said on Wednesday that five states—Jharkhand (37.3%), Chhattisgarh (30.2%), Madhya Pradesh (10.7%), Tamil Nadu (15.5%), Jammu and Kashmir (10.8%)—were reporting vaccine wastage much higher than the national average of 6.3%.Jharkhand and Chhattisgarh were the first states who immediately responded to the Centre’s claim by saying that its data is incorrect and their vaccine wastage was well below the national average. “As per total vaccine doses availability with Govt in Jharkhand till today, the current Vaccine Wastage proportion is only 4.65%,” the office of Jharkhand’s chief minister tweeted on Wednesday.Also Read| Centre gets rebuttals from Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh on vaccine wastage dataThe Chhattisgarh government, meanwhile, said there was a delay from vaccination centres in providing data which the central government was calling vaccine wastage.On Friday, Madhya Pradesh also weighed in and said only 1.3% wastage of doses has been reported in the state so far against the Centre’s claim of 10.7%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-224-6-million-covid-vaccine-doses-provided-to-states-uts-so-far-centre-101622187052088.html
28-05-2021||India||Neither PM Modi nor Centre understood Covid-19 pandemic: Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday sharpened his attack on Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the central government over the second wave of the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic in India by saying that neither Modi nor the government has been able to understand the viral disease, which has claimed over 300,000 lives so far.Rahul Gandhi has been the most vocal critic of the Centre’s response towards the coronavirus pandemic and has censured it on several fronts--vaccination, under-reporting of deaths, oxygen supplies and the construction of the Central Vista Project.Addressing a virtual press conference on Friday, Gandhi said, “I, along with several other people warned the Centre over the Covid-19 pandemic multiple times. The Centre made fun of us. The Prime Minister declared victory against Covid-19. The problem here is neither the Prime Minister nor the Centre has understood the viral disease till now.”Also Read| ‘Government does not seem to care about vaccination’, tweets Rahul GandhiGandhi said that Covid-19 is not just a disease but is an evolving one that will become fatal if more time and space is given to it. Pointing out that the viral disease attacks the country’s poor population, those with co-morbidities, diabetes, heart disease, obesity, the Congress leader offered ways to combat it.“There are three to four ways to stop Covid-19. Of these, the permanent solution is vaccination. Lockdown is a weapon but people suffer and hence it is a temporary solution. Social distancing and wearing of masks are also temporary solutions against Covid-19,” he added.Gandhi once again targeted the Centre over its vaccine strategy and the decision to export doses to other countries by saying that only 3% of India’s population is vaccinated and the remaining 97% is still prone to Covid-19. He said if the vaccination rate continues at the present pace, the entire population will be only inoculated by 2024.Also Read| Over 224.6 million Covid vaccine doses provided to states, UTs so far: CentreHe also alleged that PM Modi’s nautanki (drama) is the reason behind the raging second wave of the pandemic in India due to which lakhs of people died. “The Centre is lying about the death rate due to the virus. This is not the time to lie. We have to understand the reality and the Centre has to show the reality if we want to combat Covid-19. This is about the country’s future and not a political matter. They (Centre) should understand that we (opposition) are not their enemies,” the Congress leader said during the briefing.After 3,660 people succumbed to Covid-19 on Friday, India’s death toll rose to 318,895 and the fatality rate stood 1.16%. In mid-April and early May, the daily deaths in the country went over 4000, the highest anywhere in the world. Meanwhile, 186,364 new Covid-19 cases were reported on Friday, the lowest in 44 days, taking the caseload to 27,555,457, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/neither-pm-modi-nor-centre-understood-covid-19-pandemic-rahul-gandhi-101622186412268.html
28-05-2021||India||News updates from HT: Union minister claims Arvind Kejriwal insulted tricolour and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Arvind Kejriwal insulted Tricolour, claims culture minister Prahlad PatelUnion minister Prahlad Singh Patel has accused Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal of disrespecting the national flag and violating the Flag Code of India during his televised press briefings. Read MoreIndia backs calls for further studies into origin of Covid-19India on Friday backed calls for further investigations into the origin of Covid-19 and sought the cooperation of China and other parties for such studies, days after US President Joe Biden asked intelligence agencies to submit a fresh report on the issue. Read MoreCaribbean court stays immediate repatriation of Mehul Choksi to IndiaThe top court of record for the Organisation of Eastern Caribbean States has stayed immediate repatriation of fugitive diamantaire Mehul Choksi even as Indian investigators have pushed for it since he was captured in Dominica after going missing from Antigua & Barbuda. Read MoreICC announces WTC final playing conditions: India, New Zealand to share trophy if match ends in a draw or a tieThe ICC on Friday announced the playing conditions for India vs New Zealand World Test Championship final, which is set to be played next month at Southampton, starting from June 18th. Read MoreKRK says he will review Salman Khan's films even if he 'touches his feet', thanks Salim Khan for supportAfter promising never to review any of Salman Khan's films, actor and self-proclaimed film critic Kamaal Rashid Khan (KRK) has taken a different stance. Read MoreWill Smith shares new fitness clip, flaunts leaner torso: Pursuit of HappynessWill Smith has been applauded a lot for his acting skills. The actor, however, is also known for keeping things real and that is why he shared an unedited image of himself showing his body that carried him through the pandemic and made a lot of jaws hit the floor. Read MoreRolls-Royce Boat Tail, the most expensive car in the world, breaks coverWould anyone spend more than Rs.200 crore on a car just to get that luxurious car with a boot that resembles a boat tail? Even if it is stacked with some of the most expensive drinks and an independent set-up perfect for a romantic outing?Well, it is a Rolls-Royce, for crying out loud. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-union-minister-claims-arvind-kejriwal-insulted-tricolour-and-all-the-latest-news-101622185503114.html
28-05-2021||India||All 4 West Bengal leaders get bail in Narada sting operation case||The Calcutta high court on Friday gave interim bail to all four leaders in West Bengal, arrested in the Narada sting operation case. Ministers Subrata Mukherjee and Firhad Hakim, party MLA Madan Mitra and former mayor Sovan Chatterjee, who is an ex-TMC leader, are currently under house arrest as per the high court's order.Imposing conditions, a five-judge bench of the high court directed the four accused persons to furnish bail bonds of ₹2 lakh each.The five-judge bench comprises Acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal and justices I P Mukerji, Harish Tandon, Soumen Sen and Arijit Banerjee.All four are also prohibited from making any comment in public or in media with regard to the matter. They were also directed to meet the investigating officer through virtual mode as and when required.The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) arrested the four leaders on May 17 in connection with its probe into the Narada sting tape case.The case pertains to a controversy that erupted ahead of the 2016 assembly elections after Narada News portal uploaded a series of videos purportedly showing a number of high-profile TMC leaders receiving money in exchange for favours to a fictitious company.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/all-four-tmc-leaders-accused-in-narada-sting-operation-case-get-interim-bail-101622186444755.html
28-05-2021||India||NCB arrests Sushant Singh Rajput's former flatmate Siddharth Pithani from Hyderabad||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Friday arrested Siddharth Pithani from Hyderabad in its ongoing probe into Bollywood-drugs nexus, in connection with actor Sushant Singh Rajput's death.Pithani was Rajput's former flatmate and one of those who reportedly found the actor's body hanging from the ceiling fan on June 14 last year. Pithani had been questioned by the NCB last year in connection with the probe.NCB arrested Hemant Shah alias Maharaj from Goa in connection with Rajput's death on May 7. Shah had allegedly supplied drugs to Anuj Keshwani and Regal Mahakaal, two local suppliers, who were also being investigated for the actor's deathPithani's arrest comes just ahead of Rajput's first death anniversary.PTI reported that an NCB team, led by zonal director Sameer Wankhede, launched a search for Pithani and traced him to Hyderabad. Pithani was brought to Mumbai following his arrest.NCB had filed a chargesheet on March 5, which named 33 accursed, including the late actor's girlfriend at the time of his death, Rhea Chakraborty. This chargesheet contained statements of 200 witnesses, and was complied after 6 months of investigation. The agency had also recorded statements of Bollywood actors Deepika Padukone, Rahul Preet Singh, and Sara Ali Khan during their probe.Pithani had been questioned by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) on August 11 of last year, along with the late actor's business manager Shruti Modi, and his sister Meetu Singh. Both Pithani and Modi's statements were recorded under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) by the central probe agency.Pithani, who had been living with the late actor for about a year at the time of his death, had also been questioned by the Mumbai Police as part of its accidental death report (ADR) probe into Rajput's death.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ncb-arrests-sushant-singh-rajput-s-flatmate-siddharth-pithani-from-hyderabad-101622184808741.html
28-05-2021||India||India has administered over 205mn Covid vaccine doses till now||India has administered over 205 million coronavirus vaccine doses by Thursday, May 27. In what will be a boost to the country’s vaccination drive, Apollo Hospitals said they will start inoculating with Sputnik V, the Russia-made vaccine, from the second week of June.Meanwhile, by Thursday 7pm, 205,451,902 vaccine doses had been given in India. This includes 98,27,025 healthcare workers who have had their first dose and 6,747,730 who have got their second dose as well. As many as 15,339,068 frontline workers have had their first dose while 8,419,860 have got their second dose too.In the 45-60-year age group, 63,532,545 people have got their first dose and another 10,215,474 have had their second dose as well. In the 60+ category, 57,748,235 people have been administered their first dose while 18,469,925 have had their second dose as well.Also Read | India backs calls for further studies into origin of Covid-19In the newly added category of 18-45 year age group, 1,176,300 beneficiaries received their first dose of Covid vaccine on Thursday and cumulatively, 15,152,040 of this age group have been vaccinated across 37 states and Union Territories.As many as 2,658,218 vaccine doses were given by the evening. Of this, 2,481,196 beneficiaries were vaccinated with the first dose and 1,77,022 beneficiaries received their second dose as wellIndia recorded 186,364 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Friday, lowest in last 44 days, according to the Union health ministry’s dashboard. The death toll increased to 315,235 as 3,660 people succumbed to the viral disease over the past 24 hours. The overall nationwide Covid tally now stands at 27,555,457.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-has-administered-over-205mn-covid-vaccine-doses-till-now-101622186111224.html
28-05-2021||India||Red Fort violence: Court to pronounce order on Delhi Police charge-sheet today||A Delhi court on Friday is likely to pronounce its order on the issue of cognisance on charge sheet filed in connection with the January 26 violence in the national capital, when thousands of farmers stormed into the Red Fort while protesting against the Centre’s three farm laws.In the charge sheet, the crime branch of the Delhi Police named 16 suspects as accused of the violence including Punjabi actor-turned-activist Deep Sidhu. The police termed the alleged storming of the fort by the protesters a “well-planned conspiracy.” According to the charge sheet, the accused came well equipped to “cause mayhem” and use the Red Fort premises as their new protest site.The police also attached hundreds of clips gathered from various photographers, CCTV cameras and those posted on social and media as evidence to show how protesters indulged in violence while carrying "weapons" like swords, rods, pharsi (saintie), wooden legs of a cots and spears.The charge sheet running into 3224 pages was submitted before a duty metropolitan magistrate in Tis Hazari court on Thursday.On January 26, farmers protesting against the three agriculture laws carried out a rally at demanding Centre to repeal the new reforms. However, the protests turned violent as some of the protesters carrying swords barged into the Mughal-era fort tried to hoist a religiously significant flag, Nishan Sahib, at the ramparts of the monument.Following the violence, two separate cases were registered by the Delhi Police. While one case involving serious charges such as rioting, attempt to murder and criminal conspiracy was registered on the police’s complaint, the second case was registered on the basis of a complaint filed by the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI), which is the custodian of the Mughal-era fort. Sidhu was arrested in both cases and is currently out on bail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/red-fort-violence-court-to-pronounce-order-on-delhi-police-charge-sheet-today-101622184891147.html
28-05-2021||India||Caribbean court stays immediate repatriation of Mehul Choksi to India||The top court of record for the Organisation of Eastern Caribbean States has stayed immediate repatriation of fugitive diamantaire Mehul Choksi even as Indian investigators have pushed for it since he was captured in Dominica after going missing from Antigua & Barbuda. The order came after Choksi’s lawyers filed a habeas corpus, or writ seeking to bring a prisoner or other detainee before the court to determine if the person’s imprisonment or detention is lawful, in the Eastern Caribbean Supreme Court (ECSC). ECSC has jurisdiction over six independent states including Antigua and Barbuda and Dominica.Justice Birnie Stephenson of the ECSC ruled the Dominica police will not remove Choksi until further orders or the hearing of the writ. She directed Choksi’s full access to his attorneys, according to a copy of her order reviewed by HT and reports in the local media. Stephenson will hear the matter again on Friday at 9 am Dominica time (6:30 pm IST).Officials in New Delhi monitoring the developments in the case said they are in touch with Dominica to seek Choksi’s repatriation to India on the basis of an Interpol notice as there is no extradition arrangement between the two countries.Also Read | Explained: Mehul Choksi caught in Dominica but India may have to wait to get himChoksi’s lawyers--Wayne Marsh in Dominica and Vijay Aggarwal (India)--have alleged their client was abducted from Antigua and Barbuda, the country of his citizenship, and taken to Dominica illegally on Sunday. They claimed Choksi was tortured and not allowed to speak with his family. The lawyers said his deportation to India would be illegal as he is no longer an Indian citizen.Dominica’s Criminal Investigation Division apprehended Indian-born Choksi, who fled the country in 2018 after being charged in the ₹13,578 Punjab National Bank cheating case, on the Caribbean island on Tuesday on the basis of an Interpol “yellow notice”. He went missing on Sunday evening from Antigua, roughly 101 nautical miles away.Marsh told local media on Thursday that Indian and Antiguan police officials allegedly abducted Choksi on Sunday and brought him to Dominica on a vessel. “His left eye was swollen, and his face was severely bruised. He appeared weak and feeble and there were several marks on his body. He could barely stand from the mattress on the ground,” Marsh told dominicanewsonline.com. He added Choksi informed them that he was on his way to dinner when seven to eight men dressed in blue, who sounded like Indians and Antiguan police officers, placed a bag over his head. The officers allegedly forced him onto a sailing vessel that carried a Dominican flag. Wayne alleged his client was “beaten, shocked in the eye with an electrical device and other parts of his body.”Choksi’s lawyers have contended that his repatriation to India may be legally complicated, especially because India does not have an extradition treaty with Dominica and Choksi currently is Antiguan and Barbuda national.Antigua and Barbuda Prime Minister Gaston Browne told reporters on Thursday that he has requested Dominica to declare Choksi as persona non grata and send him to India. “We asked them [Dominica] not to repatriate him to Antigua. He needs to return to India where he can face the criminal charges levelled against him,” Browne said. Browne added that Choksi had made a monumental error by fleeing to Dominica.Dominica’s acting police chief Lincoln Corbette told HT the fugitive businessman will be repatriated to Antigua and Barbuda after ascertaining all the facts. A Dominica government statement on Thursday also suggested the same while calling Choksi an “Indian citizen”. It confirmed he has been detained for illegal entry into Dominica. The statement said Dominica was in communication with the authorities of Antigua and Barbuda to ascertain some facts “including the status of his Antiguan citizenship”.“Once the information is provided by the Antigua authorities, possible arrangements will be made for Mr Mehul Choksi to be repatriated to Antigua,” the statement added.Antigua and Barbuda has said that it was ready to extradite Choksi to India, for which the process is already on. His extradition case as well as revocation of citizenship is currently being pursued in a court there, which he has challenged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/caribbean-court-stays-immediate-repatriation-of-choksi-101622183770666.html
28-05-2021||India||PM Modi meets Odisha CM Patnaik, reviews post Cyclone Yaas damages||Prime Minister Narendra Modi Friday reviewed the post-cyclone situation and damages caused by Cyclone Yaas at a meeting here.The Prime Minister was received by Governor Ganeshi Lal, Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik, Union Ministers Dharmendra Pradhan and Pratap Sarangi at the Biju Patnaik International Airport here.The review meeting which is currently underway in the airport conference hall, is expected to continue till mid-day.Cyclone Yaas, packing winds gusting to 145 kmph whiplashed parts of Indias eastern coast on Wednesday, killing at least four people and leaving behind a trail of damaged homes and flooded farmland, forcing more than 21 lakh people to be evacuated to safe shelters in the states of West Bengal, Odisha and Jharkhand.After the havoc caused by the cyclone, heavy post- cyclone rains on Thursday has seen river water levels rising above the danger mark, placing four districts of Odisha - Bhadrak, Jajpur, Kendrapara and Keonjhar - on high alert.The Prime Minister is scheduled to leave for West Bengal at 12.10 pm after an aerial survey of the cyclone-hit Balasore and Bhadrak districts in Odisha. PTI AAM JRC JRC JRC JRC||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-meets-odisha-cm-patnaik-reviews-post-cyclone-yaas-damages-101622183261262.html
28-05-2021||India||Plea filed against Twitter in Delhi High Court over non-compliance of new rules||A petition was filed in the Delhi high court on Friday against Twitter over its non-compliance with the new IT rules. The petition has been filed by Amit Acharya, a practising advocate at the Delhi high court and the Supreme Court, as described in the petition. The plea says Twitter must perform their statutory and executive duties as a "significant social media intermediary".The new IT rules which were announced on February 25 and came into effect from May 26 (after a gap of three months) mandate social media intermediaries to disclose the first originator of one message, if flagged by the authorities. This is one of the many rules that the Centre wants social media platforms operating in India to abide by.In reply, Twitter said it will continue to co-operate with the government but in the light of the recent developments, the company was concerned over the safety of its employees in India. This was in reference to the recent visit of a team of Delhi Police at Twitter's New Delhi office. The police team went to serve a notice to the India head after Twitter tagged BJP spokesperson's tweet as "manipulated media".In its statement, issued on Thursday, Twitter also pointed out that some of the provisions in the new IT rules violate freedom of speech.The Centre criticised Twitter's statement and said the rules were finalised after "widest possible consultations". "Twitter needs to stop beating around the bush and comply with the laws of the land. Law making and policy formulations is the sole prerogative of the sovereign and Twitter is just a social media platform and it has no locus in dictating what should India’s legal policy framework should be," it said.Citing several recent examples of violations, the government said it is time that Twitter disabuses itself of this grandiosity and comply with the laws of India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/plea-filed-against-twitter-in-delhi-high-court-over-non-compliance-of-new-rules-101622182068281.html
28-05-2021||India||No politics, please: St Stephen's principal on his statement on student Satyam Jha's Covid death||St Stephen's College principal John Varghese on Friday issued a clarification and said that the college does not recognise any political body and neither does it encourage politics on the campus. This comes after his heartfelt note 'From Pandemic to Panacea' on the Covid death of a first-year History Honours student of his college was apparently interpreted with political colour.Lamenting the passing away of Satyam Jha, "a young man looking forward to life expectantly", the principal wrote, "The claims of belligerent and blind leaders who are immune to suffering and deaths of simple people also show that we are veering off dangerously to becoming a cruel and insensitive race. How do all those claims of power and importance matter before the death of a loved one? Nothing," he wrote in a long note where he said Covid teaches people humility.But his message was reported in a "divisive, mischievous and irresponsible" nature, he said. "Common sense and propriety demand that every communication be treated in its entirety, paying full attention to the context in which it is made," he wrote in the note issued on Friday.The passing away of the 18-year-old has come as a shock as Saytam was actively involved in arranging Covid relief until he contracted the virus.Heartbreaking news to start the day with: a topper at my school, studying my subject in my college, helping others, dies of #Covid at 18 years of age. My heart grieves for his parents. Tragedies assail us daily but there’s a poignancy to the loss of one with so much potential. pic.twitter.com/XMfB6bNIEzCongress MP Shashi Tharoor took to Twitter and said it was heartbreaking to start the day with the news of this death. "Heartbreaking news to start the day with: a topper at my school, studying my subject in my college, helping others, dies of #Covid at 18 years of age. My heart grieves for his parents. Tragedies assail us daily but there’s a poignancy to the loss of one with so much potential," he wrote.Satyam was admitted to New Medical College Hospital in Kota after he developed breathlessness, almost 10 days after he got fever. Then he was shifted to a private hospital and passed away on May 25. Satyam did not step in the campus because of the ongoing pandemic and attended classes from Kota online.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-politics-please-st-stephen-s-principal-on-his-statement-on-student-satyam-yadav-s-covid-death-101622179331574.html
28-05-2021||India||Cyclone Yaas: Navy continues relief operations in Odisha's Balasore district||The Indian Navy informed that it will continue rescue operations in Balasore district of Odisha following the havoc created by Cyclone Yaas.As per an official statement by the Indian Navy on Thursday, "The Navy Disaster Relief Team was deployed on May 27 at Sadar block of Balasore district for carrying out relief activities in the area around Parikhi village which is worst affected due to water-logging."The HADR Naval team has set up and operationalized a Community Kitchen at the multipurpose cyclone shelter of Parikhi Village, Sadar block. Meals were prepared and distributed at fisherman colonies of Budhigadiya, Nandachak, Boulbeni at Parikhi village for over 700 personnel. The community kitchen has been a big success and has provided much-needed succour to the affected people and they expressed gratitude for the timely service provided during the disaster.Also Read| As cyclone Yaas raged, pregnant woman in Odisha carried on charpoy to hospitalAnother Naval Relief team is scheduled to proceed for Talasari (northmost fishing village of Odisha) to distribute relief material in affected areas of Talasari, Bhograi, Chandramani and Inchundi villages today.The team has also carried out tree cutting and clearance of certain roads at Balasore.Four naval ships with relief material have already reached Dhamra anchorage to provide relief to the people of the Bhadrak district. The helicopters from the ships were launched to augment the efforts at Balasore district. They supplied 100 prepared food material packets and 300 dry provision packets to the relief team for distribution.The remnant of cyclone Yaas has weakened into a well-marked low-pressure area over Bihar and adjoining east Uttar Pradesh, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) informed on Friday.Also Read| Remnant of Cyclone Yaas moves away, weakens into a low pressure areaThe cyclone made landfall in Odisha on Wednesday morning and raged over West Bengal and Jharkhand over the last few days. Severe flooding and significant damage has been witnessed in many parts.Prime Minister Narendra Modi is scheduled to visit Odisha and West Bengal today to assess the impact of the cyclone.He will first land in Odisha's capital city Bhubaneswar, where he will hold a review meeting. The Prime Minister will then proceed for an aerial survey of the affected areas of Odisha's Balasore and Bhadrak and also West Bengal's Purba Medinipur, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-yaas-navy-continues-relief-operations-in-odisha-s-balasore-district-101622179037347.html
28-05-2021||India||Govt okays setting up of Covid vaccination centres for elderly, differently-abled||The Centre has issued guidelines for making operational “nearer to homes” Covid-19 vaccination centres for the elderly and differently-abled. The special vaccination centres will follow “a community-based, flexible and people-centric approach”, Union health ministry said in a statement on Thursday.Individuals above 60, who have not received any vaccination doses yet, and younger people with disability due to physical or medical conditions will be eligible for jabs at these centres.The ministry has asked states to make arrangements to make functional such centres.As per the guidelines, a community-based approach needs to be followed where sessions can be conducted in non-health facility-based settings and are nearer to homes such as community centres, resident welfare association centres, panchayat houses, schools, old age homes, etc.Based on the cohort of the eligible population, the district or urban task forces will decide the location of a centre to maximize the reach of services to the target population, reduce vaccine wastage with minimal impact on the existing health services.Also Read | India’s daily Covid-19 cases fall to 186,364; death toll reaches 318,895Each such centre will be linked to an existing Covid vaccination centre (CVC). The CVC in charge will be responsible to provide the vaccine, arrange logistics and human resources required.Once identified and verified, all special centres for the elderly and differently-abled will be registered on the Co-WIN portal. Each of these centres will have five members; a doctor, vaccinator, vaccination officer 1 for Co-WIN registration and/or verification of a beneficiary, and vaccination officer 2 and 3 for crowd control. An assistant to the vaccinator will ensure a 30-minute observation of beneficiaries following vaccination for any adverse effect following immunisation, and any other support.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-okays-setting-up-of-covid-vaccination-centres-for-elderly-differentlyabled-101622179270404.html
28-05-2021||India||'Heed public opinion': Chidambaram hits out at Centre over farmers' protests||Senior Congress leader P Chidamabaram on Friday lashed out at the Centre saying that it is trying to use the coronavirus pandemic in its favour to change the narrative over the ongoing farmers' agitation at the Delhi borders. "The new spin is 'prolonging the agitation in the midst of a pandemic is unconscionable,'" Chidambaram wrote on Twitter."The obvious counter is 'prolonging the controversial farm laws in the midst of a pandemic is unconscionable,'" he added.Calling on the government to scrap the three contentious farm laws, Chidambaram said, "If the government is a servant of the people, it should heed public opinion... and begin fresh consultations.""The farmers are determined, the government is stubborn, '' he also wrote on the micro-blogging site.The farmers mainly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh have camped on major national highways for six months now, demanding a repeal of the laws. The protests continued as the second wave of Covid-19 raged in the country and the daily numbers rose at unprecedented levels.During the rise in Covid-19 cases, several government leaders appealed to farmers to call off their mass protests over fears that it may emerge as a viral "super-spreader" event.However, agitating farmers said that the new agricultural laws make farmer livelihoods vulnerable to corporate agri-businesses is itself a life and death matter, and continued with their sit-ins.On May 26, farmers observed a "black day" to mark six months of the agitation. They are protesting against the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.The laws open up the agriculture sector to private players and have been hailed by the government as "historic" and long-needed reforms. However, the farmers fear that the legislation will end the mandi system where they are assured of the minimum support price for their produce.However, protesting farmers say that it will open up the vast agriculture sector to a big corporation and would leave them at the mercy of them without any legal guarantee.The Centre has held several rounds of talks with farmers' representatives but so far they have failed to be fruitful.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heed-public-opinion-chidambaram-hits-out-at-centre-over-farmers-protests-101622178285953.html
28-05-2021||India||Vaccine dose mix-up: May not be a problem, says Centre as 20 in UP get 2 different shots||Administering two different doses of vaccines is not a cause for concern, the Centre has said after at least 20 people in Uttar Pradesh's Siddharthnagar district bordering Nepal were administered with different doses of vaccines, in a case of "negligence". Niti Aayog (health) member VK Paul said the vaccination centres should stick to the same dose of vaccines, as per the protocol, but if a mix-up has happened, there are unlikely to be any adverse effects.The 20 people who received two different vaccines in two slots are all from Audahi Kalan village and are aged above 45 years. On April 1, there were given a dose of Covishield, which was their first dose. On May 14, they were administered the second dose and as the health workers did not check the card to find out which vaccine was administered to them earlier, they were given Covaxin, by mistake.The mix-up was pointed out by a villager Ram Surat who noticed that he was given two different vaccines in two doses. Reports said none of them reported any adverse effect.Some countries have allowed mixing of Covishield first dose with Pfizer or Moderna second dose or vice versa, based on studies.When the vaccination drive began in India in January, the Centre asked states and UTs to be alert to not mix two vaccines, but recently Dr Paul has said that theoretically and scientifically, mixing of two vaccines is possible, but the subject needs detailed studies. On Thursday, the Centre said it is looking to mix-and-match vaccine doses on a trial basis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vaccine-dose-mix-up-may-not-be-a-problem-says-centre-as-20-in-uttar-pradesh-get-different-shots-101622177308788.html
28-05-2021||India||Narada case: Calcutta HC to hear leaders’ recall plea against stay on bail today||A five-judge bench of the Calcutta high court will hear today the recall petition of the four politicians, accused in the 2016 Narada sting operation case, against a stay order on their bail. The four politicians are: Sitting ministers of Mamata Banerjee-led West Bengal government, Firhad Hakim and Subrata Mukherjee, Trinamool Congress legislator Madan Mitra, and former MLA Sovan Chatterjee.They were arrested by the CBI on May 17. Even though a special CBI court granted them interim bail, the Calcutta high court stayed the bail and sent them to judicial custody. On May 21, however, the HC put them under house arrest and constituted a larger five bench to hear the bail plea. Also Watch | ‘Court displayed ignorance of law’: Top lawyers slam Goa verdict in Tejpal caseOn Thursday, appearing for the agency, Solicitor General Tushar Mehta sought that the entire proceedings that took place at a special CBI court on May 17 be declared as vitiated. The five judge bench headed by acting Chief Justice of Calcutta high court, however, questioned the CBI if a judicial order can be disregarded on the basis of public perception. Appearing on behalf of Subrata Mukherjee, TMC MP and advocate Kalyan Banerjee told the court that when a recall application on a stay order is filed, it must be heard within two weeks. The recall petition was filed on May 19.The Narada sting case pertains to a controversy that erupted ahead of the 2016 assembly elections after Narada News portal uploaded a series of videos purportedly showing a number of high-profile TMC leaders receiving money in exchange for favours to a fictitious company.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/narada-case-calcutta-hc-to-hear-leaders-recall-plea-against-stay-on-bail-today-101622176989992.html
28-05-2021||India||India's daily Covid-19 cases fall to 186,364; death toll reaches 318,895||India recorded 186,364 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Friday, lowest in last 44 days, according to the Union health ministry's dashboard on Friday. The death toll increased to 315,235 as 3,660 people succumbed to the viral disease over the last 24 hours. After Friday's additions, the overall nationwide tally now stands at 27,555,457.For the fifteenth consecutive day, recoveries continued to outnumber the daily new cases as 259,459 people were recuperated from Covid-19 over the last 24 hours, it also showed.The recovery rate has increased to 90.34 per cent, while the weekly positivity rate currently at 10.42 per cent, as per the health ministry figures.The number of active cases has dropped to 2,343,152.On August 7 last year, India's Covid-19 tally crossed the 20 lakh mark. It breached the 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19 last year.India crossed the grim milestone of 20 million infections on May 4 this year.The second Covid-19 wave in India is now on the "downswing," the Centre said on Thursday, highlighting that the current number of active cases is still "very high" and advised states and Union territories (UTs) to not let down their guards.The Centre also stressed that any relaxation of curbs by the states and the union territories(UTs) may be considered at an appropriate time in a graded manner.In a fresh directive from the Union ministry of home affairs, the Centre directed the states and UTs to continue the ongoing Covid-19 guidelines till June 30. It also asked them to go for intensive and local containment measures in districts with a high number of cases to check the spread of disease.Meanwhile, India is considering Pfizer's request to grant it indemnity from costs relating to severe vaccine side-effects, adding that the company had signalled the availability of its Covid-19 shot, possibly from July. "We are engaged with Pfizer because they have indicated availability of ... certain volume of vaccines, in the coming months, possibly starting in July," V K Paul said in a press briefing.The government is also in discussions with Johnson & Johnson and Moderna.Centre scrapped local trials for "well-established" foreign vaccines on to fast-track imports after the country faced a severe shortage of vaccines leading to many states halting vaccination drive for people in the age group of 18-44.The cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses is 205,451,902, according to the provisional report by the health ministry on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-daily-covid-19-cases-fall-to-186-364-death-toll-reaches-318895-101622172510115.html
28-05-2021||India||Maha Covid numbers low; govt to decide on lockdown soon||Maharashtra recorded 21,273 new coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases on Thursday, even as the state government decided to extend the current lockdown, in view of the rapid rise in infections in more than a dozen districts.The state, however, may extend the restricted time limit of four hours for buying essential commodities and may also allow opening of shops.The decision is likely to be taken in the next two days, officials said.The current state-wide lockdown, which was imposed on April 22, is ending on June 1 at 7am. The issue of extending the lockdown was discussed in the state cabinet meeting held on Thursday.Currently, people can’t step out unless they need medical attention, or are working in an essential sector, or want to buy essential commodities, and that too only between 7am and 11am.State health minister Rajesh Tope said there was no chance of lifting the lockdown as there are many districts where cases are on the rise. The state government can provide some relaxation in the restrictions, which will be decided by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray after having deliberations with the state task force, he added.Also Read | Covid-19: What you need to know todayA statement issued by the chief minister office (CMO) said, “Though the positivity rate of the state is coming down, 10 to15 districts are reporting rapid growth in Covid-19 cases. There is also a rise in cases of mucormycosis. Active cases of the state have dropped to the tally of highest cases recorded during the first wave. But we still need to be careful. Instead of completely lifting the lockdown, we will have to extend it from June 1 and also provide relaxations in the restrictions wherever necessary. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray directed the state administration to take steps accordingly after discussing the same in the state cabinet meeting held on Thursday.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maha-covid-numbers-low-govt-to-decide-on-lockdown-soon-101622175190007.html
28-05-2021||India||Modi to meet Mamata today to take stock of damage caused by Cyclone Yaas||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is scheduled to meet West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Friday to take stock of the damage caused by Cyclone Yaas in the state.The preliminary assessment puts the damage to around ₹15,000 crore, Banerjee told reporters on Thursday.Modi is scheduled to conduct an aerial survey of the cyclone-hit areas of Odisha and land at Kalaikunda airbase in West Bengal. Banerjee too would conduct an aerial survey of at least two districts before heading to Kalikunda.“The meeting would be held at Kalaikunda airbase of the Air Force in West Midnapore. It is scheduled around 2.15 pm-2.30 pm,” said a bureaucrat.This would be the first face to face meeting between Modi and Banerjee after the Trinamool Congress (TMC) returned to power for the third term following a bitter campaign.Also Read | Remnant of Cyclone Yaas moves away, weakens into a low pressure areaThe TMC won 213 seats, while the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) could only manage 77 seats. Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah led the BJP’s campaign in Bengal.Banerjee on May 20 hit out at Modi and alleged that none of the chief ministers was allowed to speak, and they were all sitting like “puppets” at a virtual meeting with the Prime Minister on the Covid-19 situation.The storm surge triggered by the spring tide of a full moon and the cyclone inflicted heavy damage in West Bengal.A second bureaucrat said more than 10 million people have been affected. “Around three lakh [30,00,00] houses have been damaged while 1.16 lakh hectares of croplands have been destroyed after saline water from the rivers and sea gushed into the villages through breaches in the embankments and over them.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-to-meet-mamata-today-to-take-stock-of-damage-caused-by-cyclone-yaas-101622174889915.html
28-05-2021||India||Jaishankar holds talks with US NSA, trade representative||External affairs minister S Jaishankar held a wide range of discussions with top officials of the Biden administration including National Security Adviser Jake Sullivan, US trade representative Katherine Tai and top spy Avril Haines, and members of Congress and business leaders on Thursday, in the first such expansive in-person engagement between the two governments. The minister said in a tweet, which is deemed as the official statement from the ministry, that he and Sullivan discussed the Indo-Pacific region, which is a core areas of cooperation for the two nations bilaterally and multilaterally with their Quad partners Australia and Japan; and Afghanistan, which is one of a few areas of dissonance because of India’s unease over US plans to withdraw all its troops from there by September 11.The White House National Security Council said in a statement the two leaders agreed that the two countries “should continue working closely together to address common challenges throughout the Indo-Pacific region”. They also greed that “people-to-people ties, and shared values are the foundation” of the strategic partnership that is “helping to end the pandemic, supporting a free and open Indo-Pacific, and providing global leadership on climate change”.India and the United States are collaborating along with Quad partners Australia and Japan to produce more than 1 billion Covid-19 vaccines for distribution among Indo-Pacific countries, as part of an initiative they announced after their first summit level meeting, held virtually in March.Jaishankar also “conveyed appreciation” to Sullivan for US “solidarity” in addressing India’s Covid-19 challenge. Sullivan noted that the United States, together with private sector companies and private individuals, had sent $500 million worth of relief to India, which has included oxygen supplies needed direly to hep India tide over a crippling shortage, therapeutics such as Remdesivir and personal protective equipment.Also Read | ‘Hindutva policies’ concocted imagery, says Jaishankar in USJaishankar also thanked US Trade Representative Tai at their meeting for her “positive stance”, he said in a tweet, on “IPR issues & support for effective & robust supply chains”.America’s support for India and South Africa’s proposal at the WTO to temporarily waive intellectual property rights to Covid-19 vaccines to ensure their equitable distribution around the world, which she announced earlier this month, reversing Trump administration’s opposition, has paved the way for other opponents to fall in line as well.“Our trade, technology & business cooperation are at the core of our strategic partnership. Enhancing them is vital to post-Covid economic recovery.” Jaishankar wrote in the tweet.Trade is a the single most contentious issue in the bilateral relationship. And it has defied resolution across governments in India and the United States. Tai and Commerce Minister Piyush Goyal have had some initial discussions, but they haven’t really had a crack at some of the key issues.The external affairs minister also met the Director of National Intelligence, who is the top US spy with oversight over 16 intelligences agencies, including the CIA. “Glad to meet DNI Avril Haines,” he wrote on Twitter. “Look forward to working closely together to address contemporary security challenges and advance our strategic partnership.”Jaishankar met US business leaders as well, in two separate batches. He met first representatives of the US-Indian Business Council (better known by its acronym USIBC), an arm of the US chamber of commerce, which is one of the most powerful lobbying group in the US. He then met members of the US-India Strategic Partnership Forum (USISPF), rival body that is backed by most major US investors in India and the Modi government.The minister, who was once ambassador to the US and knows personally most of the key players, also met key lawmakers — Gregory Meeks and Michael McCaul, the chair and ranking member respectively of the powerful House Foreign Relations Committee, which controls US spending abroad.“Discussed developments pertaining to Quad and our cooperation on vaccines,” Jaishankar tweeted, adding, “Recognize their leadership in building stronger ties.”India enjoys strong bipartisan support on Capitol Hill, home to US Congress, and the Indian side wanted the minister to meet as many lawmakers as possible, but they were constrained because most of them were out of town for a major American holiday, Memorial Day.Jaishankar was still able to catch the co-chairs of the House India Caucus, which is touted as the largest country-specific group. “The US Congress has been a tremendous pillar of support as India meets the Covid challenge,” he said of his meeting with the India Caucus co-chairs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jaishankar-holds-talks-with-us-nsa-trade-representative-101622173869752.html
28-05-2021||India||Remnant of Cyclone Yaas moves away, weakens into a low pressure area||The depression, remnant of very severe cyclonic storm Yaas, over the central parts of Jharkhand moved northwards and lay around 100 km north of Ranchi and 150 km south of Patna on Thursday night, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. It moved northwards and weakened into a well-marked low pressure area on Friday morning, IMD added."Depression (remnant of very severe cyclonic storm “YAAS”) over Bihar & adjoining Jharkhand has weakened into a well-marked low pressure area lay over Bihar adjoining East UP at 0530 hrs today," IMD tweeted.Cyclone Yaas made landfall in Odisha on Wednesday morning and has raged over West Bengal and Jharkhand over the last few days.Depression (Remnant of Very Severe Cyclonic Storm “YAAS”) over Bihar & adjoining Jharkhand has weakened into a well-marked low pressure area lay over Bihar adjoining East UP at 0530 hrs IST of today the 28th May 2021. pic.twitter.com/wD9pawJxEnThe cyclonic storm, second to ravage the western coast of India in a week after Cyclone Taukate, impacted Odisha and West Bengal the most. West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee said that according to initial estimates, the cyclone has caused damages of around ₹15,000 crore in the state. She also announced a package of ₹1,000 crore in immediate relief in the form of a scheme named Duare Tran (doorstep relief). On Friday, the chief minister is scheduled to meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi who will be in state to take stock of relief measures being taken in the aftermath of the cyclone. The PM will arrive at Kalaikunda Air Force Station in West Bengal after he assesses the damage caused by the cyclone in Odisha and will be received by Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar. CM Banerjee will also meet PM Modi at the Air Force station and discuss issues related to the cyclone, before conducting aerial surveys of cyclone-affected areas in the state separately, news agency ANI reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/remnant-of-cyclone-yaas-moves-away-weakens-into-a-low-pressure-area-101622170340112.html
28-05-2021||India||Monsoon likely to arrive this Monday, says IMD||Monsoon has advanced into some more parts of Maldives-Comorin area, southwest and eastcentral Bay of Bengal, most parts of southeast Bay of Bengal and some parts of westcentral Bay of Bengal on Thursday.Conditions are likely to become favourable for monsoon onset over Kerala on May 31, India Meteorological Department (IMD) said.Also Read | Monsoon to arrive early in Kerala: IMDThe normal date for monsoon onset over Kerala is June 1 but Yaas helped pull the monsoon flow over Arabian Sea, according to IMD. Second stage monsoon forecast with details of likely zonal distribution of rain will be released by IMD on May 31.Cyclone Yaas weakened into a well marked low pressure area over Bihar and east Uttar Pradesh this morning.The depression (remnant of Yaas) over the central parts of Jharkhand had moved northwards and lay around 100 km north of Ranchi (Jharkhand) and 150km south of Patna on Thursday night. Under its influence, isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall with extremely heavy falls is likely over Bihar on Friday; over east Uttar Pradesh on Thursday and Friday; over Bihar on Friday and heavy rainfall likely is over Odisha and Chhattisgarh during the period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monsoon-likely-to-arrive-this-monday-says-imd-101622172250819.html
28-05-2021||India||Ramdev-IMA tussle goes on as Patanjali prepares 'befitting reply' to defamation notice||Patanjali Yogpeeth has confirmed that it has received a defamation notice served by the Indian Medical Association (IMA), demanding an apology from Yoga Guru Ramdev over remarks on allopathy, and said it will give legally a "befitting reply".While responding to an e-mail query by PTI, a statement from the Patanjali Yogpeeth quoting general secretary Acharya Balkrishna confirmed it and said: "We will give them befitting reply legally which way we do all things while serving our great motherland and humanity."The Haridwar-based organisation also said that Patanjali carries all the activities with "scientific and truthful temperament" and "cannot allow anyone to disparage, neglect and demean the great knowledge and science of rishis and scriptures".On Wednesday, the IMA had served a six-page defamation notice on Ramdev for his alleged disparaging remarks against allopathy and allopathic doctors, demanding an apology from him within 15 days, failing which it said the association will demand compensation of ₹1,000 crore from the yoga guru.The notice served on behalf of IMA (Uttarakhand) secretary Ajay Khanna by his lawyer Neeraj Pandey describes the remarks by Ramdev as damaging to the reputation and the image of allopathy and its practitioners.The notice has also asked Ramdev to make a video clip contradicting all his allegations and circulate it on social media platforms where he had uploaded his earlier video.It further asked the yoga guru to withdraw a "misleading" advertisement from all platforms endorsing "Coronil kit", a product of his firm, as an effective medicine for Covid-19, failing which an FIR and a criminal case will be lodged against him by the IMA.Besides, the IMA had also written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi demanding that the yoga guru be booked immediately under sedition charges for alleged misinformation campaign on vaccination and challenging government protocols for treatment of Covid-19.On Sunday, Ramdev was forced to withdraw a statement made in a viral video clip in which he is heard questioning some of the medicines being used to treat the coronavirus infection and saying that "lakhs have died from taking allopathic medicines for Covid-19".The remarks were met with vociferous protests from the doctors' association, following which Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan asked him to withdraw the "extremely unfortunate" statement.A day later, the yoga guru posed 25 questions to the IMA in an "open letter" on his Twitter handle, asking if allopathy offered permanent relief for ailments such as hypertension and type-1 and 2 diabetes.He went on to list modern-day ailments such as Parkinson's disease and also wondered if allopathy had any painless cure to treat infertility as well as to reverse ageing and increase haemoglobin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ramdevima-tussle-goes-on-as-patanjali-says-it-will-give-befitting-reply-101622171485444.html
28-05-2021||India||Pfizer, Moderna, J&J: When will foreign vaccines be available in India?||The Centre on Thursday reiterated that contrary to the common accusations of the government's "inaction" in buying vaccines from abroad, the Centre has held multiple rounds of discussions with Pfizer, Johnson & Johnson and Moderna. Sputnik V vaccines from Russia have already arrived and are being administered.When will the rest of the vaccines arrive? Here is all you need to knowPfizerUS pharma giant Pfizer has already said it is ready to offer five crore doses to India between July and October this year. But it has emphasised that it won't deal with individual state governments and will only transact with the central government. It has also sought indemnity in India like it did in every other country where it supplied vaccines and the discussions are on over it."We are looking at what their expectations are from the government and they are looking at what our expectations are from them. That's the process in which this will move. Because they will have to come to India and apply for licensure in India, that's one path and there are imperatives of cold chain and supply," Niti Aayog (health) member VK Paul said.Pfizer has informed the Indian authorities that its vaccine is highly effective, effective against variant found in India, and also on children aged 12 years.Also Read: Govt pushes back on Covid-19 vaccine plan criticismModernaAccording to a PTI report, Moderna may launch a single-dose Covid-19 dose in India next year in association with Cipla. But it has already conveyed to the Indian authorities that it does not have vaccines to start the supply this year. Cipla is interested in procuring five crore doses from Moderna for 2020 and has "requested confirmation from the central government in respect of stability in regulatory requirements/policy regime", the report said.Johnson and JohnsonIndia is exploring ways to secure Johnson and Johnson's vaccines for the Indian market as the US company is not likely to export its vaccines to other countries in near future, a PTI report said. One billion doses of the J&J vaccine will be manufactured in India by Hyderabad's Biological E under the Quad Vaccine Partnership, but those will not be for the domestic market, Hence, the government working on finding out ways to secure a part of those doses.Reports said a speedy launch of Sputnik Light — a single-dose Covid-19 vaccine — is likely as the Russian manufacturer will file regulatory approval in a few weeks. It could become the first single-dose Covid-19 vaccine to be approved in India, a report said.Buying vaccines from companies abroad is not like buying something off the shelf, Niti Aayog said on Thursday, clarifying that companies have limited supply and they also give preference to countries of their origin.No application of any foreign manufacturer is pending for approval with the drug controller, the Centre said emphasising that it has eased the entry of vaccines approved by the World Health Organization and the regulatory bodies of the US, the UK and Japan. "These vaccines will not need to undergo prior bridging trials. The provision has now been further amended to waive the trial requirement altogether for the well-established vaccines manufactured in other countries," it said.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pfizer-moderna-j-j-when-foreign-vaccines-will-be-available-in-india-101622169430793.html
28-05-2021||India||Mehul Choksi's repatriation stayed by Dominica court, 'Govt's sovereign decision,' says Antigua PM||A Dominica court has put a stay on the repatriation of fugitive Mehul Choksi after Choksi's legal team in Dominica filed a habeas corpus petition and highlighted that he was denied legal rights and was not allowed to meet his lawyers initially, local media reported. The matter is expected to be heard again on May 28 at 9am local time. This comes after the acting police chief of Dominica Lincoln Corbette told Hindustan Times that the fugitive businessman, wanted in India in multicrore PNB scam, will be repatriated to Antigua and not to India.Currently, Choksi is in the custody of Dominica Police and is being investigated, police said.Also Read: Legal hurdles may hit Choksi’s repatriationUnder a habeas corpus petition, an arrested person has to be brought before a judge, especially to secure the person's release "unless lawful grounds are shown for their detention". Choksi's Dominica lawyer Wayne Marshe said it is a "travesty of justice" as Choksi is entitled to legal representation — be it in Antigua or Dominica.Choksi's lawyer in India Vijay Aggarwal said his client was picked up by various people from Jolly Harbour, where his car was found after his sudden disappearance, and then he was taken to Dominica.Watch: Hunt for Mehul Choksi: Is India close to getting custody of PNB scam accused?"I noticed that he was severely beaten, his eyes were swollen and had several burnt marks on his body. He reported to me that he was abducted at Jolly Harbour in Antigua and brought to Dominica by persons whom he believed to be Indian and Antiguan police on a vessel he described to be about 60-70 feet in length," Choksi's lawyer in Dominica Wayne Marshe told ANI.After Choksi was apprehended in Dominica, Antiguan Prime Minister Gaston Browne said he asked Dominica to hand Choksi over to India directly. But the legality of that in the absence of an extradition arrangement between India and Dominica was questioned."Ultimately, it is the sovereign decision of the government of Dominica as to which country they repatriate Mehul Choksi unless the Court states otherwise," Browne told ANI.Dominica is not among the 58 countries with which India has either extradition treaties or arrangements, while it has the same with Antigua and Barbuda. In such cases, the decision of where a fugitive will be repatriated depends on local authorities.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mehul-choksi-s-repatriation-stayed-by-dominica-court-101622165618137.html
28-05-2021||India||Cyclone Yaas: PM Modi to visit Odisha, West Bengal to assess impact||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will visit Odisha and West Bengal on Friday to assess the damage caused by cyclonic storm Yaas in the two coastal states. He will first land in Bhubaneswar, where he will hold a review meeting before undertaking an aerial survey of Odisha's Balasore and Bhadrak and West Bengal's Purba Medinipur, officials said. He will then hold a review meeting in West Bengal.On Thursday too, the PM chaired a meeting over the impact of the cyclone and advised officials to ensure that normal life of people is back on track at the earliest.Also Read | 8 lakh people affected due to Cyclone Yaas in Jharkhand, UN says ready to support rescue efforts: 10 pointsEven as power services have been restored in most affected areas, according to officials present in the meeting, damage due to inundation need to be assessed and fixed.About 106 teams of National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) were deployed with 46 teams each in West Bengal and Odisha that rescued over 1,000 people and removed more than 2,500 trees or poles that had fallen and obstructed the roads, according to a release issued after the meeting.Watch | Cyclone Yaas: PM Modi to visit Odisha, WB; red alert issued for Jharkhand, Bihar﻿﻿Cyclone Yaas, the second cyclone in less than a week to batter the western coast of India, has left behind a trail of damage and destruction. According to experts, mass evacuations saved many lives.Even though the cyclone did not make landfall with the intensity the India Meteorological Department (IMD) predicted, it still caused the sea to surge up to four metres, inundating coastal villages in Balasore and Bhadrak where it made landfall. Over 1 million people were evacuated from low-lying areas in the affected states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-yaas-pm-modi-to-visit-odisha-west-bengal-to-assess-impact-101622161187054.html
28-05-2021||India||Covid-19 tracker: More than 186,000 new cases take tally to over 27.5 million||||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-tracker-more-than-186-000-new-cases-take-tally-to-over-27-5-million-101622161102652.html
28-05-2021||India||US-India partnership will help end Covid-19 pandemic: Jake Sullivan||US-India strategic partnership will help to end the Covid-19 pandemic, said US National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan on Thursday (local time)."I met today with India's Minister Jaishankar. Our people-to-people ties and our values are the foundation of the US-India partnership and will help us end the pandemic, lead on climate, and support a free and open Indo-Pacific," Sullivan tweeted.The comment comes after he met External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar here and discussed wide-ranging issues including the Indo-Pacific, climate change and Afghanistan."Pleased to meet NSA @JakeSullivan46. Wide-ranging discussions including on Indo-Pacific and Afghanistan. Conveyed appreciation for US solidarity in addressing the Covid challenge. India-US vaccine partnership can make a real difference," Jaishankar tweeted."National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan met today with Minister of External Affairs S Jaishankar to review the strong partnership between the world's largest democracies," the National Security Council Spokesperson Emily Horne said in a White House statement.Horne said further that both the leaders welcomed cooperation in recent weeks that resulted in deliveries of over USD 500 million in COVID-19 relief supplies from the US federal and state governments, US companies, and from private citizens across America for the people of India."They discussed a range of regional and global issues, and agreed the United States and India should continue working closely together to address common challenges throughout the Indo-Pacific region," the statement said."They agreed that people-to-people ties and shared values are the foundation of the US-India strategic partnership that is helping to end the pandemic, supporting a free and open Indo-Pacific, and providing global leadership on climate change," the statement added.Jaishankar arrived in the US on May 24, and is slated to visit many senior officials, including Secretary of State Antony Blinken, during his stay till May 28.Jaishankar is also scheduled to meet US Defence Secretary Lloyd Austin, Secretary Anthony Blinken, high level officials from Department of Homeland Security, USAID, Department of Energy and National Science a foundation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/usindia-partnership-will-help-end-covid-19-pandemic-jake-sullivan-101622160658894.html
28-05-2021||India||Cyclone Tauktae is a warning for India’s west coast||India saw its second cyclone in a month as Cyclone Yaas, in the Bay of Bengal, battered the Odisha and West Bengal coast on May 26. To be sure, cyclones in the Bay of Bengal are almost an annual affair.But Cyclone Tauktae in the Arabian Sea, which affected almost all states on the western coast earlier this month, was a more uncommon phenomenon. Not only are cyclones relatively uncommon in the Arabian Sea, Tauktae also intensified rapidly. This is something the India Meteorological Department (IMD) had not forecast. With the climate crisis, the Arabian Sea could see more such intense cyclonic disturbances going forward, according to experts. An HT analysis shows that this will inflict a far bigger cost on lives and livelihoods than cyclonic activity on India’s eastern coast.2011-2020 period saw the highest number of cyclones in Arabian Sea since 1890sIMD has records of cyclones among the two major seas of the North Indian Ocean – Indian Ocean area north of the equator – going back to 1890s. A decade-wise analysis of the data shows that the Bay of Bengal has had more cyclones than the Arabian Sea in every decade since 1891-1900. However, the data also shows the Arabian Sea has been becoming more and more turbulent. It had 17 cyclonic events between 2011 and 2020, the highest in a decade since the 1890s. Eleven out of these were severe cyclones. Climate scientists, including those at IMD, also suggest that the Arabian Sea might see a higher increase in the intensity of cyclones, if not the number, than the Bay of Bengal in the future. “The sea surface temperatures over the Arabian Sea have gone up, so has the ocean heat content. This may not affect the total number of cyclones developing over the Arabian Sea. But when cyclones form over the Arabian Sea, they are likely to experience severe intensification. This is because the warming over the Arabian Sea is higher than the Bay of Bengal. We should be prepared,” said M Rajeevan, secretary, Ministry of Earth Sciences. Clearly, stronger cyclones pose a bigger threat to life and property in the future.Warmer oceans don’t just increase cyclones, they also make them more unpredictablePredicting cyclone trajectories is crucial to minimising their damage. “Climate projections indicate that the Arabian Sea will continue warming under increased carbon emissions, resulting in more intense cyclones in the future. Ocean warming has made some new challenges also. Cyclones are now intensifying rapidly since warm ocean waters act as fuel for them,” said Roxy Matthew Koll, a climate scientist at the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology. Higher sea surface temperature acts as a catalyst for intensification of low-pressure areas to cyclones. “Extremely severe cyclones such as Fani (2019) and Amphan (2020) (in the Bay of Bengal) intensified from weak to severe status in less than 24 hours due to warm ocean conditions. That gives us less time to be prepared,” Koll added. Tauktae intensified from a Very Severe Cyclonic Storm to an Extremely Severe Cyclonic Storm within a few hours from 11.30pm on May 16 to 5.30am on May 17. Its sudden intensification took IMD by surprise. “Tauktae intensified very rapidly. We did not state that it would intensify to an extremely severe cyclone in our forecast. But it did because of extremely favourable oceanic and atmospheric conditions,” said M Mohapatra, director general, IMD, on May 17.Also read: Maharashtra cabinet clears ₹252-crore relief package for Cyclone Tauktae-hit districtsWestern coast has more to lose from cyclones in material termsThe states on India’s western coast contributed 35% to the country’s GDP in 2018-19, the latest year for which data from all states is available in the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE) database. The states on the eastern coast contributed 21%. Natural disasters do not affect all sectors in the same way. An oil refinery stands to lose much more than a law firm or outsourcing-based IT firm. The western coast appears more vulnerable once this is accounted for too. States on the western coast contributed 46% of India’s manufacturing GVA in 2018-19, while east coast states contributed 22%. One could argue that cyclonic disruptions need not affect all states on India’s coastline. HT has analysed district-wise data from the Annual Survey of Industry (ASI) conducted in 2009-10 (latest district-level data) to factor this in. This shows that India’s manufacturing activity is highly skewed in nature. Of the 593 census districts at that time, 82% of India’s total manufacturing output was concentrated in just 100. Among these, 15 were on the western coastline and 12 were on the eastern coastline. Output value of western coastline districts was disproportionately more than their number. Western coastline districts among these 100 accounted for 27.4% of India’s total manufacturing output, while eastern coastline districts accounted for 10%.Western coast is more densely populated which entails a greater risk to human livesIt’s not just money at stake if cyclones become more intense on the west coast. This coast has more densely populated pockets than the eastern coast. This also increases the risk of loss of human lives. There are 33 census districts each on the western (from Kutch to Thiruvananthapuram) and eastern coast (from Kanyakumari to North 24 Parganas) of India. While the overall population density of the western coast (474 persons per square kilometre) is less than the eastern coast (565), the mean and median density of the districts on the western coast is higher. This means that the western coast has more pockets of high population density than the eastern coast. This will make evacuation and relief work more challenging.Also read: 3 jumbo Covid centres shut before Cyclone Tauktae to reopen for patients from June 1||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-tauktae-is-a-warning-for-india-s-west-coast-101622160033327.html
28-05-2021||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||Covax, launched by WHO, the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness, and GAVI, the Vaccine Alliance, to ensure equitable access to coronavirus disease vaccines, is in a bind. Thus far, it has shipped 72 million shots, 166 million short of its May-end target. That’s a fraction of the around two billion vaccine doses shipped worldwide. By the end of June, Covax will be around 190 million doses short of its target, according to Covax chief Seth Berkley (as cited in an article in Science). The main reason for this is the facility’s dependence on Serum Institute of India (SII), which makes Covishield, its version of the AstraZeneca/Oxford vaccine, and which has had to deal with an exponential surge of infections in India, where 16 million of the approximately 27 million reported cases of Covid-19 (almost 60%) have been recorded since March 1. India’s flawed vaccine strategy – there seem to have been either delays or mistakes in demand estimation, capacity assessment, approvals, orders – isn’t hurting just it, but also the world, but enough has been written about that. The big question, both local and global, about vaccine supply is: What now?Also read: Govt pushes back on Covid-19 vaccine plan criticismThe same Science article directed me to a background paper for a March summit organised by Chatham House, Covax, and others, that pointed to the potential availability of up to 14 billion doses of the vaccine in the current year. That would mean another 12 billion doses till the end of the year. Even accounting for at least some manufacturers facing production issues of the sort we now know they can, and excluding vaccines for which reliable efficacy data isn’t available – let’s assume that knocks five billion doses off the number, taking it to seven billion – that’s substantial, although it is still nowhere close to the number the world needs. Then, it was always clear that not everyone in the world was going to get vaccinated this year, and the availability of a billion doses a month for the next seven months isn’t an insubstantial achievement. Some of these will no doubt find their way to India.India has already put out an estimate on the number of vaccines that will be available between August and December – a staggering 2.17 billion doses. Discounting for production issues, and excluding vaccines that are still in trials, this number, too, will likely come down significantly. The Ken, for instance, has estimated actual availability at 1.09 billion. Reuters reported that there could be a substantial shortfall, with SII alone producing 27% fewer doses of Covishield in that period than the 750 million listed by the government. And while Bharat Biotech claims to have raised its manufacturing capacity of Covaxin to 500 million doses a month from April, that is yet to reflect in the availability of vaccines (although things are expected to improve from July). Still, assuming rapid approvals, and the application of learnings from the first few phases of the vaccine drive, it is possible that the supply of vaccines between now and the end of the year will be around 1.5 billion doses.'Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19It’s important, however, as I’ve previously suggested in this column, that everyone know exactly how many vaccines are available to each state in a month -- from the Central quota, from the state quota (as determined by the Centre), and in private sector hospitals. It’s also important for the Centre and the states to stagger and prioritise vaccinations based on not just supplies, but other factors (vulnerability of the population could be one), and communicate this clearly. Once there is clarity on availability, prioritisation, and scheduling, much of the anxiety that is being seen in urban areas around access to vaccines should reduce. In rural areas, based on HT’s own reporting, it is clear that vaccine hesitancy is still a problem that needs to be addressed. At the current rate, it is clear that India will miss its target of completely vaccinating 300 million people by the end of July by at least 30% (perhaps more). The fact that this has happened despite an opening up of the vaccine drive, on April 1, and subsequently on May 1, is cause enough for a rethink in strategy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-what-you-need-to-know-today-101622157263895.html
28-05-2021||India||Govt pushes back on Covid-19 vaccine plan criticism||The government is in talks with Pfizer and is considering its demand for an indemnity from any adverse effects if its vaccine is rolled out in India, a top official said on Thursday as the government defended India’s vaccine procurement policy by separately releasing a document rebutting criticism that has poured in recently.In what it labelled as “myths”, the government said in a statement that it is “engaged continuously” with major vaccine manufacturers since mid-2020, but the companies had “their own priorities, game-plans and compulsions in allocating finite stocks”.“Multiple rounds of discussions have happened with Pfizer, J&J & Moderna. Government offered all assistance to have them supply and /or manufacture their vaccines in India. However, it is not that their vaccines are available in free supply. We need to understand that buying vaccines internationally is not similar to buying ‘off the shelf’ items,” said the Myths and Facts on India’s Vaccination Process document shared by the Press Information Bureau and re-shared by multiple ministers.The document, however, does not address the main criticism experts have made: India did not make any advance purchase orders – also known as advance marketing commitments (AMC) with any of the vaccine makers, including domestic manufacturers, till shortly before the roll-out.Later, at the government’s routine briefing on Covid-19, Niti Aayog member (health) Dr VK Paul confirmed that India was now in talks with Pfizer. “Yes, we are in talks with Pfizer, since they indicated they have certain amount of vaccines available in the coming months — possibly starting in July. We are looking at what their expectations from the government are and they are looking at what our expectations are,” he said.“They have requested indemnity from all the nations, including the country of origin, US. We are examining this request and we will take decision in the larger interest of people and on merits. It’s under discussion but there is no decision as of now,” he added.The government, in the document it released, also pointed to its decision to accelerate approvals for vaccines cleared by World Health Organization and regulatory agencies in the West and Japan to refute the “myth” that it had not approved vaccines available globally.In a subsequent point, it denied that it was not doing enough to improve vaccine production in the country: “The central government is playing the role of an effective facilitator to enable more companies to produce vaccines from the early 2020... Covaxin production by Bharat Biotech is being increased from under 1 crore (10 million) per month to 10 crore (100 million) per month by October. Additionally, three PSUs will together aim to produce up to 4cr (40 million) doses by December. With constant encouragement of the Government, Serum Institute is ramping up Covishield production of 6.5 crore (65 million) doses per month to 11 crore (110 million) doses per month.”The three public sector units are Maharashtra’s Haffkine Biopharmaceuticals, Indian Immunulogicals and Bharat Immunologicals and Biologicals Ltd. The Union government also said that compulsory licensing, a suggestion pushed by several opposition leaders, would not help since making requires “active partnership, training of human resources, sourcing of raw materials and highest levels of bio-safety labs”.The government also deflected criticism that it was not doing enough to vaccinate children by saying: “As of now, no country in the world is giving vaccines to children.” As users on social media pointed out that the US and Canada have begun vaccinating some groups of children, the PIB statement was amended to say: “It should read ‘no country in the world is giving vaccines to children under 12 years’”.According to the government’s own disclosure, the first orders were placed in the second week of January, when India committed to purchase 60 million doses from Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech. A second purchase order, for 100 million doses from the two manufacturers, was placed on March 12 and the latest, for 160 million doses, was placed on April 28 for supplies through July.The only AMCs that could have helped India were by Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance, which struck a deal with Serum Institute of India for 200 million doses (of which 100 million were for India) and the World Health Organization led Covax Facility for supply of doses to 92 low and middle income countries, including India. India received 10 million doses under the Covax arrangement by April.A third deal that was for distribution in India, which will begin to translate into doses administered from this month, was struck by Dr Reddy’s to sell 100 million doses of Sputnik V in India. Latest reports indicate that Apollo Hospitals is among the first purchaser of these doses.In contrast, according to a report shared by science analytics company Airfinity on January 8, the US and European Union had secured commitments for close to 5 billion doses from various manufacturers, with Brazil (593 million), UK (507 million) and Latin American nations excluding Brazil (507 million) being the other key nations or groupings that secured large vaccine commitments by early 2021.The remainder of the document was a rebuttal to accusations that the Centre had left the states to fend for themselves on procuring vaccines – it cited the 45-plus free vaccination programme – and on not providing adequate supplies to states, to which it said that the allotment policy was transparent.“The behaviour of some of our leaders, who in spite of full knowledge of the facts on vaccine supply, appear on TV daily and create panic among the people is very unfortunate. This is not the time to play politics,” it said.Experts said India lost crucial time in procuring doses. “The amount of time India spent on deciding the priority population groups to be vaccinated, (and then suddenly opening it up for everyone), the same amount of time should have been given to supply procurement. How will supply be assured, since lack of enough attention there has created chaos,” said Dr Chandrakant Lahariya, vaccine and public health expert.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, was the latest chief minister to raise concerns over vaccine procurement, when he asked the Union government on Wednesday “why is the country not buying vaccines”. Previously, Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee, Maharashtra’s Uddhav Thackeray and Jharkhand’s Hemant Soren have questioned the policy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-pushes-back-on-vaccine-plan-criticism-101622156553945.html
28-05-2021||India||Standoff on IT rules as Twitter flags concerns||Twitter on Thursday raised concerns about “intimidation tactics by the police” and “core elements” of the new social media and intermediary guidelines, becoming the third internet giant to push back against the rules for digital companies framed by the government, which reacted strongly within hours to accuse Twitter of trying to “dictate terms to the world’s largest democracy”.The exchange was the latest in a snowballing controversy over new guidelines that direct companies such as Twitter, WhatsAapp, Facebook ,and Google to regulate content, appoint officers who will be liable for compliance, and adopt features such as tracing of messages and voluntary user verification.Twitter’s statement comes a day after WhatsApp challenged the Union electronics and technology ministry (Meity) guidelines in the Delhi high court. Before that, Facebook on Tuesday said there were “a few issues (that) need more engagement with the government”.On Thursday, Google’s chief executive Sundar Pichai, in a virtual press conference, said the company was committed to complying with local laws and to working with governments around the world, while adding that a free and open internet was “foundational”.The government defended the rules afresh as the pushback mounted. Union minister for electronics and information technology Ravi Shankar Prasad on Thursday said the guidelines were designed to empower citizens and prevent the “abuse and misuse” of social media.But Twitter saw it differently. “To keep our service available, we will strive to comply with applicable law in India. But, just as we do around the world, we will continue to be strictly guided by principles of transparency, a commitment to empowering every voice on the service, and protecting freedom of expression and privacy under the rule of law,” the company said.“Right now, we are concerned by recent events regarding our employees in India and the potential threat to freedom of expression for the people we serve,” it added, ostensibly referring to a visit by Delhi Police officials on May 25 to serve the company a notice in a separate matter. Twitter added that it plans “to advocate for changes to elements of these regulations that inhibit free, open public conversation”.Meity responded to Twitter’s stand with a statement, saying: “Lawmaking and policy formulation is the sole prerogative of the sovereign and Twitter is just a social media platform and it has no locus in dictating what India’s legal policy framework should be.”It added that the government “also wishes to emphatically assure that representatives of social media companies including Twitter are and will always remain safe in India and there is no threat to their personal safety and security,” before calling Twitter’s position as “totally baseless, false and an attempt to defame India to hide their own follies”.The controversial intermediary and digital platform guidelines came into complete effect on May 25, and major social media platforms such as Facebook, Twitter and WhatsApp, are yet to comply with all the clauses.In a petition to the Delhi high court, WhatsApp said the new rules are unconstitutional as they violate the fundamental right to privacy. The company in particular referred to the requirement to trace the originator of a message if ordered, something it said will not be possible without breaking the end-to-end encryption that keeps communications sure.Google’s Pichai struck a more conciliatory note.“It’s obviously early days and our local teams are very engaged... we always respect local laws in every country we operate in and we work constructively. We have clear transparency reports, when we comply with government requests, we highlight that in our transparency reports,” Pichai said, according to PTI.But he added that, as a company, Google has been “very clear about the values of a free and open internet and the benefits it brings and we advocate for it”, and said it respects legislative processes and in cases where it needs to push back, it does so.“It’s a balance we have struck around the world,” he said.Minister Prasad suggested that the changes were all about users. “The new rules require the social media companies to set up an India based grievance redressal officer, compliance officer and nodal officer so that millions of users of social media who have a grievance get a forum for its redressal,” Prasad posted on Koo, the app which has come up as the Indian alternative to Twitter.The government on Wednesday wrote to all social media companies to send details of their compliance officer, nodal contact person, resident grievance officer and physical contact address in India, as soon as possible. The deadline to do this ended on Tuesday.At least five industry bodies, that represent the interests of social media platforms, wrote to the ministry to seek an extension to implement the new social media and intermediary guidelines, with some seeking a yearlong extension and broad standard operating procedures ahead of the May 25 deadline, according to representations seen by Hindustan Times.The bodies were Confederation of Indian Industry (CII), Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce & Industry (FICC), U.S.-India Business Council (USIBC), the US-India Strategic Partnership Forum (USISPF) and Asia Internet Coalition (AIC).The statement by Twitter also seemed to be in response to a visit by the Delhi Police to its offices on May 24 in order to serve notices relating to an inquiry into an alleged “toolkit” that defames the government. The police has asked the company to disclose evidence on the basis of which it has tagged as “manipulated media” posts made by several Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders.The posts show the toolkit document purportedly on a Congress letterhead, which the opposition party says has been forged. The position has also been taken by several fact-checkers.Delhi Police said Twitter’s position was “not only mendacious but designed to impede a lawful inquiry by a private enterprise”. “The entire conduct by Twitter Inc, including its Indian entity, in the last few days has been obfuscatory, diversionary and tendentious,” the police said, asking the company to cooperate in an inquiry into toolkit document.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/standoff-on-it-rules-as-twitter-flags-concerns-101622156070836.html
28-05-2021||India||Woman among 5 arrested in Bengaluru for torture and rape in viral video||Bengaluru: Five people were arrested for allegedly raping a woman, torturing her and recording the assault, Bengaluru police said late on Thursday evening. The arrests were made hours after Assam Police shared visuals from a video circulating on social media to trace the accused. Union minister Kiren Rijiju followed up, asking the police of all states and Union territories to chip in.The five - one of them is a woman - were arrested on the basis of leads on the accused by the Assam police.I appeal the citizens to help the Police of all the States and Union Territories🙏 https://t.co/prLE7aydGP“Based on a video clip, wherein one woman was subjected to physical abuse and tortured by a group of people, five culprits including a woman, visible in the clip were immediately traced and secured by Bengaluru City Police,” a statement by Bengaluru Police said.“On the basis of the contents of the video clip and facts as disclosed during preliminary interrogation of the secured persons, a case of rape, assault and under other relevant provisions of law has been registered against the accused in Ramamurthy Nagar Police Station,” the statement added.Police believe that both the accused and victim were residents of Bangladesh.“As per the information revealed so far, all of them are part of the same group and believed to be from Bangladesh. Due to financial disputes, the culprits brutalized the victim, who is also said to be a Bangladeshi, brought to India for human trafficking. The investigation is being carried out in full earnestness under the close supervision of senior officers,” Kamal Pant, Bengaluru police commissioner, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/woman-among-5-arrested-in-bengaluru-for-torture-and-rape-in-viral-video-101622147224637.html
28-05-2021||India||IAF chief Bhadauria flies MiG-21 Bison fighter to pay tribute to fallen pilot||Six days after an Indian Air Force pilot was killed in a MiG-21 crash in Punjab, IAF chief Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria on Thursday visited the fighter squadron based at Suratgarh in Rajasthan and flew a MiG-21 Bison fighter along with the squadron’s commanding officer as a tribute to the fallen pilot, officials said on Thursday.Squadron Leader Abhinav Chaudhary’s MiG-21 Bison crashed near Moga on May 21. This was the third Bison crash this year.“Panthers (the squadron) paid tribute to Sqn Ldr Abhinav Chaudhary by flying a ‘Missing Man’ formation, as they recommenced their op (operational) flying. The senior most serving ‘Panther’, CAS (Chief of Air Staff) flew a Bison & joined the CO in the aerial tribute. CAS later interacted with aircrew & technicians of the base,” the IAF said.2/2 pic.twitter.com/glyUfB96TYThe time-honoured missing man formation involves three aircraft where one slot is kept vacant in memory of the fallen pilot.Also Read: Moga villagers to install statue of IAF pilot who died in MIG crashThe MiG-21 Bis (an upgraded variant of the plane flown for the first time in 1976) was further upgraded to MiG-21 Bison in India in 2000.IAF operates four squadrons of MiG-21 Bison aircraft — a squadron has 16 to 18 fighter jets. The last of these upgraded MiG-21s are set to be phased out in the next three to four years. The air force got its first single-engine MiG-21 in 1963, and it progressively inducted 874 variants of the Soviet-origin supersonic fighters to bolster its combat potential.Of the 874 MiG-21 variants inducted by the IAF, more than 60% were licence-produced in India.More than 400 MiG-21s have been involved in accidents that have claimed the lives of more than 200 pilots during the last six decades, earning the fighters ominous epithets such as “Flying Coffin” and “Widow Maker”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iaf-chief-bhadauria-flies-a-mig-21-bison-fighter-to-pay-tribute-to-fallen-pilot-101622145783231.html
28-05-2021||India||Now, IMA lodges police complaint against Ramdev||The Indian Medical Association (IMA) on Thursday lodged a police complaint against yoga guru Ramdev, seeking an FIR against him under the Epidemic Diseases Act, the Disaster Management Act, and other provisions of the Indian Penal Code, for allegedly making false claims and trying to profit during a pandemic.In a 14-page complaint to the IP Estate police station, the association of doctors has alleged that Ramdev and his associates have been deliberately casting doubts and spreading misinformation about allopathic treatments in order to sell unproven and unapproved drugs such as Coronil and Swasari. “It is stated that the accused being a businessman, in order to take advantage of the present situation and his large public following, is wilfully and deliberately advancing dishonest representations… about allopathy and modern medicine … and to swindle them into parting with their monies by taking Swami Ramdev’s unapproved and dubious drugs,” said the complaint. IMA previously demanded an apology from Ramdev over his remarks on allopathic medicine, calling it a “stupid science”. He withdrew his statements after receiving a strong-worded letter from Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan, who called his remarks “inappropriate”.In its complaint, the doctors’ body said that Ramdev’s statements “tantamount to dishonest representation being issued with ulterior motive”.In another video, the IMA said, the yoga guru is seen stating that 10,000 doctors have died despite being vaccinated; IMA stated that so far 753 doctors died in the first wave of the pandemic when vaccines weren’t available and 513 in the second wave, many of whom hadn’t received the shot. The IMA states that such claims make it difficult for the frontline workers to carry our vaccination drive, frustrating the government’s efforts. The IMA wrote to the Prime Minister on Wednesday asking him to book Ramdev under sedition charges. A R1,000 crore defamation suit was also filed by IMA-Uttarakhand. A protest was organised by doctors from the All India Institute of Medical Sciences-Delhi. An complaint to lodge FIR had previously been sent by the Delhi Medical Association. Ramdev had earlier retracted his statement on allopathy after a rap from union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan, who was present at the relaunching ceremony of coronil. The yoga guru, however, later rebuked medical professionals with 25 questions on whether they have cure for disease such as diabetes and heart conditions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/now-ima-lodges-police-complaint-against-ramdev-101622145002499.html
28-05-2021||India||PM takes stock of Yaas damage, may conduct aerial survey today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday chaired a meeting to assess the impact of Cyclone Yaas and take stock of the relief work being done in Odisha and West Bengal, said a statement released by the Prime Minister’s Office. He is likely to do an aerial survey of the affected areas in the two states on Friday.At the meeting, Modi advised the various central and state agencies to ensure that normal life is restored in the affected areas at the earliest. Officials present at the meeting told the PM that 106 teams of National Disaster Response Force were deployed — 46 each in both states — that rescued more than a thousand people and removed more than 2,500 trees/poles that had toppled and blocked roads. The army and the coast guard also rescued marooned people, while the navy and air force were on the alert.The cyclone didn’t inflict any major damage except causing a huge amount of rain in Mayurbhanj, Keonjhar, Balasore and Bhadrak districts in Odisha. The state government is yet to assess any damage caused by rain.Special relief commissioner Pradip Jena said that people in Odisha’s low-lying areas of Bhadrak and Jajpur districts were evacuated due to the expected flooding of the Baitarani river. “Had this cyclone hit the State during monsoon, it would have created a dangerous flood situation. But since it is summer, rivers and canals are dry and the soil is dry, so we are not expecting floods anywhere except for a probable medium-level flood situation in the Baitarani river,” said Jena, adding that the river has crossed the danger level at Anandpur and Akhuapada but no village has been affected by it.The state’s toll stood at 3, Jena said, adding that the cyclone has now moved out of Odisha.Earlier in the day, Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik directed that power supply be restored to at least 80% of affected consumers in the next 24 hours. He also announced seven-day relief for all families of 128 marooned villages. He congratulated all the panchayat representatives, district administrations, community organisations, and the police for their excellent work in evacuation.Elsewhere in West Bengal, chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday announced a preliminary package of ₹1,000 crore for immediate relief work while claiming that the damage in the state was to the tune of ₹15,000 crore. “Till now we have assessed the damage to be around ₹15,000 crore. This is a very preliminary assessment. Even on Thursday mini tornadoes and gales were reported from some districts... Two people were killed in lightning strikes. All these would add up,” said Banerjee.The cyclone affected more than one million people in Jharkhand, including two deaths in Ranchi, said officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-takes-stock-of-yaas-damage-may-conduct-aerial-survey-today-101622144943667.html
28-05-2021||India||2015 Telangana ‘cash-for-vote’ scam: ED submits charge sheet against state Cong chief||Hyderabad The Enforcement Directorate on Thursday filed a charge sheet against Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee working president and Malkajgiri MP A Revanth Reddy as the prime accused on the charges of money laundering in the 2015 alleged cash-for-vote scam in Telangana. In its charge-sheet in the Metropolitan Magistrate Court at Nampally in Hyderabad, the ED also named Telangana Rashtra Samithi MLA Sandra Venkata Veeraiah, Revanth Reddy’s associate R Udaya Simha, former TDP legislative council member Vem Narendar Reddy’s son Vem Krishna Keertan Reddy, mediator Bishop Sebastian and others. The ED’s charge sheet was based on the First Information Report (FIR) registered by the Anti-Corruption Bureau of Telangana, which later filed its own charge sheet in the ACB court in July, 2015. The agency claimed its probe has established that the accused “committed the scheduled offence as well as the offence of money laundering by dealing with the bribe money which is nothing but proceeds of crime as per the PMLA.””Thus, the ED has filed a prosecution complaint against the above named accused persons with a prayer to hold a trial for the offence of money laundering,” it said.The ACB caught Revanth Reddy, red-handed on May 31, 2015, while paying ₹50 lakh as an advance to nominated Anglo Indian MLA Elvis Stephenson for voting in favour of TDP candidate Vem Narender Reddy in the Telangana legislative council elections held on June 1, 2015. Revanth Reddy was then a TDP lawmaker in Telangana assembly. He joined the Congress party in 2018 and has later become the working president of the PCC. Stephenson, in his complaint to the ACB, alleged that Revanth Reddy had promised to pay another ₹1.5 crore after the voting, besides a flight ticket to leave the country. Besides, the ACB also laid hands on a recorded telephonic conversation that purportedly took place between the Anglo-Indian MLA and TDP president N Chandrababu Naidu, who was then Andhra Pradesh chief minister. The forensic experts also confirmed that the voice was that of Naidu. However, the ACB and the ED, in their charge sheets, did not name Naidu as an accused in the case, as they could not get evidences to prove that the money was sent to Stevenson at the behest of Naidu. The ACB booked Revanth Reddy and others under the Prevention of Corruption Act and section 120B (criminal conspiracy) of IPC. The ACB questioned 39 witnesses during the investigation. Revanth Reddy and the other accused did not respond to calls, till the time of going to press.(with PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2015-telangana-cash-for-vote-scam-ed-submits-charge-sheet-against-state-cong-chief-101622142481263.html
28-05-2021||India||Debate over birthplace of Hanuman ends in stalemate||Hyderabad: The face-off between Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) and Sri Hanumad Janmabhoomi Teertha Kshetra Trust of Karnataka to resolve the controversy over the birthplace of Hindi god Hanuman ended in a stalemate on Thursday. The debate was held between the experts committee of TTD headed by National Sanskrit University vice-chancellor V Muralidhar Sharma and Hanumad Janmabhoomi Teertha Kshetra Trust founder Swamy Govindananda Saraswati Swamy at the university premises in Tirupati. After a heated argument between the two sides, Govindananda Saraswati walked out of the meeting. He told reporters that there was no point in having discussions over the birthplace of Lord Hanuman after several centuries, when Valmiki Ramayana clearly mentions that he was born in Kishkindha on the banks of Pampa Kshetra (Tungabhadra river near Hampi). Stating that the experts committee constituted by the TTD on the issue had no authority to decide the birthplace of Hanuman, Govindananda Saraswati said such sensitive issues should be decided by Hindu religious seers such as the Shankaracharyas, Madhwacharyas and Jeeyar Swamijis. He alleged that the arguments of the TTD were misleading the common people. “ We cannot depend on the mythology but have to go by Ramayana. Did the experts committee ever come to Kishkindha to examine the evidences?” Govindananda asked. Speaking to reporters separately, Muralidhar Sharma said various ancient scriptures including Puranas and copper plate inscriptions clearly indicated that Tirumala, also known as Anjanadri, was the birth place of Lord Hanuman. He strongly refuted the claims made by Govindananda Saraswati that Lord Hanuman was born at Anjanahalli on the banks of river Pampa near Hampi in Karnataka. “He did not come out with any evidences to prove his claim,” Sharma said. TTD scholar Kuppa Vishwanatha Sharma, who moderated the debate, declared that the findings of TTD Pundita Parishad (experts committee) were concrete and that the arguments of Hampi Swamy held no substance. On April 13, coinciding with the Ugadi festival, TTD came out with a booklet, claiming that Anjanadri in Tirumala was the birthplace of Hanuman. The claim was based on a report submitted by an eight-member expert committee headed by Muralidhar Sharma, constituted in December 2020. Sri Hanumad Janma Bhoomi Teertha Kshetra Trust of Karnataka, however, strongly protested the claims and dashed off a six-page strongly worded letter to TTD in the first week of May. Trust founder Govindananda Saraswati said TTD’s claim was “daiva droham” (betrayal of god). Muralidhar Sharma said that the experts committee of the TTD had done extensive research for four months and gathered mythological, literary, archaeological and geographical evidence to come to the conclusion that Tirumala, also mentioned as Anjanadri in ancient scriptures, was the birthplace of Hanuman. Reacting on the debate, senior Bharatiya Janata Party leader and former TTD trust board member G Bhanuprakash Reddy said it would be better if the issue were left to the Hindu seers like Shankaracharyas and Jeeyars to decide. “The debate is totally unwarranted.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/debate-over-birthplace-of-hanuman-ends-in-stalemate-101622142424670.html
28-05-2021||India||8 Asiatic lions recover from Covid at Hyderabad zoo||Hyderabad: Eight Asiatic lions at Hyderabad’s Nehru Zoological Park (NZP), which tested positive for Sars-Cov-2 (Covid-19) in the last week of April, have now completely recovered from the infection, zoo officials said on Thursday. NZP curator V V L Subhadra Devi confirmed to HT that all the eight lions tested negative for the virus and were completely cured. The lions are now back in their enclosures in the zoo park. On April 24, the zoo authorities noticed that these eight lions were suffering from mild respiratory distress. Based on the guidelines of the Central Zoo Authority, their nasal and oral discharge samples were collected and sent to the laboratory for Conservation of Endangered Species at CSIR-Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (LaCONES-CCMB). “The samples were tested using RT-PCR, and were found positive for coronavirus. The CCMB analysed the genomes of coronavirus samples from these lions, and did not find those to be a variant of concern. The source of infection has not been found yet,” a CCMB spokesman said. Soon after they tested positive, the lions were isolated from other animals and kept under due care and necessary treatment. “They responded well to the treatment and showed signs of recovery,” a zoo official said. After two weeks of treatment, no symptoms of the virus was found in them. Yet, the authorities continued to keep them in isolation for a couple of weeks more, before testing them for the virus, which came negative. The zoo has been closed for public since May 2, following an advisory from the ministry of environment forests and climate change, New Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/8-asiatic-lions-recover-from-covid-at-hyderabad-zoo-101622142361135.html
28-05-2021||India||YSR govt perpetrating state terrorism against Oppn, says TDP chief||Hyderabad: Telugu Desam Party (TDP) president and former Andhra Pradesh chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu on Thursday accused the Jagan Mohan Reddy government of perpetrating “state terrorism” against opposition party leaders and denying citizens their fundamental rights. “The ruling YSR Congress party, with the support of the police and official machinery, has been stifling the voice of all sections of the people. The state government has become so intolerant that it is filing false cases and making house arrests of TDP leaders,” Naidu said during his inaugural address of the two-day Mahanadu, the party’s annual conclave which is being held virtually in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. Naidu said the Jagan government was resorting to state terrorism to cover up its undemocratic, autocratic and authoritarian activities aimed at denying civil liberties and fundamental rights to the people. “Not just the TDP leaders, any dissenting voice from the common people is also being suppressed,” he alleged. “The unchecked suppression has caused a democratic backsliding in the past two years. This decline has reached such a point where the mandal and zilla parishad elections were held in violation of the Supreme Court order,” he added. Under the YSRCP regime, the TDP chief alleged, attacks on opposition leaders were being launched even before the start of the elections. Nominations were not allowed to be filed and even if they were filed, they were declared invalid, he pointed out. The former chief minister said it was a difficult time for the party considering how the party activists and leaders were being put to physical, psychological and financial pain. “But everybody should know how those violating all laws and norms would eventually face much greater punishment,” he said. Naidu recalled how the Jagan government illegally arrested several TDP leaders like K Atchannaidu, Kollu Ravindra, Chintamaneni Prabhakar, J C Prabhakar Reddy, J C Asmith Reddy, Dhulipalla Narendra, Ramakrishna Reddy, B C Janardhan Reddy and even the YSRCP’s own rebel MP K Raghurama Raju. “Serious sections were being filed to make the leaders go to jail without bail. Some sections being slapped could give one above seven years’ of imprisonment,” he said. Naidu added that as a responsible opposition party, the TDP would continue to fight against these atrocities. “The police and the government, who were violating the laws, would eventually be answerable to the people,” he said.Reacting to Naidu’s remarks, senior YSR Congress party leader and chief whip G Srikanth Reddy said there was no need for the Jagan government to target any individual or resort to witch-hunting. “Chandrababu Naidu himself is a criminal and he is trying to protect those who indulged in criminal activities. The government is only enforcing the law which will take its own course,” Reddy said. It is for the second consecutive year that the TDP is holding its prestigious Mahanadu in digital mode in view of the onset of the second wave of coronavirus pandemic. On the first day of the event, the Mahanadu adopted a resolution criticising the inept handling of the Covid-19 situation in Andhra Pradesh by the state government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ysr-govt-perpetrating-state-terrorism-against-oppn-says-tdp-chief-101622142301022.html
28-05-2021||India||Lease out vaccine unit in TN to state govt, Stalin asks PM||Chennai: At a time when the country is facing shortage of the Covid-19 vaccines, chief minister MK Stalin on Thursday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to hand over the Centre-owned vaccine manufacturing unit at Chengalpattu to Tamil Nadu government on the lease to commence vaccine production. In his letter to the prime minister, Stalin said the central government-owned Integrated Vaccine Complex-HLL Biotech Limited at Chengalpattu, about 63 km from Chennai, was lying unutilised. “Mass vaccination is the most potent weapon available to us in this fight and hence it is absolutely necessary that we must ramp up domestic vaccine manufacturing capacity,” Stalin said, adding it would be in sync with Modi’s vision of ‘self-sufficient India’. The Chengalpattu facility was established in 2012 and work is in the final stages of completion. The facility has presently released a tender, which closes on May 31, for private bidders to operate. The state has assured that it will look for a private partner to commence vaccine production at the earliest. Stalin pointed out in his letter that the Centre has invested around ₹700 crore for the Integrated Vaccine Complex (IVC), which is almost complete but has been lying unutilised for want of additional funds. “The recent attempt to find a private partner to run the IVC has also not borne fruit since there were no bidders for it,” Stalin said in his letter. “I am very keen that this modern facility must be made functional immediately, in the interest of our state as well as our nation,” he added. Stating that this would enhance the nation’s vaccine production capacity, Stalin proposed that assets of the IVC may be handed over to the state on lease without any past liabilities and full operational freedom. “A suitable financial arrangement for the central government to recover a part of its investment can be subsequently worked out, after the commencement of operations,” Stalin said. Meanwhile, Tamil Nadu industries minister Thangam Thennarasu and DMK’s parliamentary party leader TR Baalu on Thursday met Union industries minister Piyush Goyal and minister of state, chemical and fertilisers, Mansukh Mandaviya, regarding the issue. “The truth is that the Centre hasn’t been able to allocate enough vaccines for Tamil Nadu,” Baalu told reporters in Delhi. “It (the unit) requires an additional investment of ₹300 crore to be complete.” He added that the Centre has said it would get back to Tamil Nadu government on the matter in about a week. On April 23, former chief minister Edappadi Palaniswami had also written to Modi urging him to bring this facility to working condition at the earliest, in order to augment the production of Covid-19 vaccines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lease-out-vaccine-unit-in-tn-to-state-govt-stalin-asks-pm-101622142241091.html
28-05-2021||India||Key 1.5°C warming mark likely within 5 years||There is a 40% chance that the annual average global temperature will be 1.5 degrees Celsius higher than pre-industrial levels – a ceiling scientists have warned needs to be avoided to prevent devastating impacts of the climate crisis – in the next five years, the World Meteorological Organisation (WMO) said in a report on Thursday.The figure is significant because most global leaders committed to taking actions that would limit global warming to 1.5°C and well below 2°C by the end of the century while signing the Paris Agreement in 2015.The findings of the report prompted Petteri Taalas, the WMO secretary general, to warn that the world was getting “measurably and inexorably” closer to the dangerous threshold. He underlined it was another wake-up call that the world needed to fast-track commitments to slash greenhouse gas emissions and achieve carbon neutrality.The 2015 Paris Climate Accord set the long-term 1.5°C warming threshold. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), two years later, warned that a breach of the threshold will mark a menacing milestone in the planet’s warming. A 2018 IPCC report said limiting global warming below 1.5°C would require “rapid and far-reaching” transitions in all sectors. The global net human-caused carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions need to fall by about 45% from 2010 levels by 2030, reaching net zero around 2050, to avoid the ceiling.The Paris accord seeks to limit global warming to well below 2, preferably to 1.5°C, compared to pre-industrial levels.Every year from 2021 through 2025 is likely to be at least 1°C warmer, according to the study. The year 2016 has so far been the warmest. From 2021-2025, high latitude regions and the Sahel, the transition in Africa between the Sahara and the Sudanian savanna, are likely to be wetter, according to the report. There is an increased chance of more tropical cyclones in the Atlantic compared to the 1981-2010 average.Taalas underlined these are more than just statistics and increasing temperatures mean more melting ice, higher sea levels, more heatwaves and other extreme weather, and greater impact on food security, health, environment, and sustainable development.“This study shows – with a high level of scientific skill – that we are getting measurably and inexorably closer to the lower target of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change,” Taalas said.Warming of the north Indian Ocean during the next five years, particularly the Arabian Sea, could make India even more vulnerable to deadly cyclones. Maps on surface temperature anomalies compared to 1981-2010 period show the Arabian Sea could be 0.5°-1°C warmer than the 29-year period.“Now almost every year and every month are warmer than the earlier ones. 2020 was one of the warmest years. However, global warming does not stop at the global average temperature that we are highlighting here. I would bring the focus to the rapid warming in the ocean that is throwing in extreme weather events in recent decades. More than 93% of the additional heat from global warming is absorbed by the oceans. Among the oceans, some regions are warming quite rapidly. The long-term surface warming recorded in the western Indian Ocean region is in the range of 1.2°-1.4°C. This has a huge impact on the monsoon and severe weather events. The Arabian Sea (part of the western Indian Ocean) has become a warm pool that is now hosting more intense cyclones. Warmer ocean conditions are also resulting in the rapid intensification of cyclones,” said Roxy Mathew Koll, a climate scientist at the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology.India’s average temperature has risen by around 0.7°C during 1901-2018. But sea surface temperature (SST) of the tropical Indian Ocean has risen by 1°C on average during 1951–2015, markedly higher than the global average SST warming of 0.7°C, over the same period according to “Assessment of Climate Change over the Indian Region”, a report of the ministry of earth sciences.Last year was one of the three warmest years on record. The six years since 2015 have been the warmest on record. 2011-2020 was the warmest decade on record, the report highlighted. The latest WMO report said a decrease in the annual growth rate of CO2 concentration due to the Covid-19 lockdown will be practically indistinguishable.More than 75% of Indian districts are hot spots for extreme climate events. On the east coast, more than 90% of districts are hot spots for cyclones, floods, droughts and their associated events; these districts are home to over 250 million people, according to an analysis by the Council on Energy, Environment and Water (CEEW).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/key-1-5-c-warming-mark-likely-within-5-years-101622142003878.html
28-05-2021||India||7 years of NDA: Report to list govt’s achievements||The official report to mark seven years of the NDA government, which will be published by the Press Information Bureau, describes efforts by the government and especially Prime Minister Narendra Modi on three aspects, reforms, welfare, and the management of the coronavirus disease pandemic. HT has reviewed a draft of the report, compiled on the basis of inputs from various departments. Titled “Firm resolve for transformational changes: 7 years of good governance”, the 188-page document has 11 sections including those titled: Sabka saath, sabka vikas, sabka vishwas; women power; Swachh Bharat; minimum government maximum governance; emerging world power; new India; and united India against Covid.The ruling dispensation has already taken a call not to organise any public function on the anniversary on account of the pandemic. Instead, the Bharatiya Janata Party has set a target of covering 100,000 villages and organising 50,000 blood donation camps across the country for its cadre on May 30. Ministers have been asked to visit at least two villages or interact with people through video. The draft report supports the three farm laws passed on September, which the government believes will make for more efficient and open agricultural markets, create new opportunities for farmers, and reduce the influence of intermediaries. Farm groups have been protesting against the laws since November. The annual report dedicated a page each to the farm laws and quotes Prime Minister Modi as saying: “Now potato growers, mango farmers or tomato cultivators can negotiate with chips, juice or sauce companies at the time of sowing and it will help them avoid any loss in future.” In the 17-page section on Covid-19, the draft says: “The primary test for any good government is how its arrangements to handle a disaster. In such situations, a strong and sensitive leadership that respects scientists and experts is required.”India was feted for its handling of the disease during the first wave, but has come in for criticism from several quarters for its handling of the second wave of infections and for a faltering vaccine drive. The government has repeatedly insisted it is increasing the supply of vaccines and the report says that the capacity of Bharat Biotech’s indigenous vaccine, developed in partnership with the Indian Council of Medical research (ICMR), will grow to 100 million doses per month by December. The draft says Prime Minister Narendra Modi is “playing a leading role” and “taking many decisive steps” to tackle the Covid19 pandemic. It lists the PM’s interventions including approval for purchase of oxygen concentrators and other materials from the PM-Cares fund, his virtual meetings with chief ministers to push for more testing and vaccination sites, and his engagements with various stakeholders including doctors and scientists. According to government officials who asked not to be named, the report will be published online. Among some of the schemes that have come in for special mention are the Udan or regional connectivity scheme. While these were suspended during last year’s lockdown, they have been restored in phases and by February, 315 routes were operational. The report also mentions the increase in the FDI cap in defence through the automatic route to 74% from 49%, a move aimed at boosting local manufacture of defence equipment. It also focuses on the Jal Jeevan mission which has, since June 2020, provided almost 4.5 million new water connections.Criticised for its handling of the migrant worker crisis in 2020 -- after the lockdown, many of them, rendered jobless and homeless chose to walk back home in the absence of any other forms of transport -- the government last year announced the creation of rental accommodation for them near their place of work. These will be available by 2022, the draft said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/7-years-of-nda-report-to-list-govt-s-achievements-101622142003031.html
28-05-2021||India||India pushes to get Choksi repatriated from the Caribbean||Government investigators on Thursday pushed to bring back fugitive diamantaire Mehul Choksi, who was captured in Dominica two days after mysteriously vanishing from Antigua & Barbuda, even as the businessman’s lawyers alleged he was abducted and deportation to India was not legally permitted. Indian-born Choksi, who fled the country in 2018 after being charged in the ₹13,578 Punjab National Bank cheating case, was apprehended by the Criminal Investigation Division (CID) in the Caribbean island of Dominica on Tuesday night on the basis of an Interpol “yellow notice”. He had gone missing in Antigua on Sunday evening, roughly 101 nautical miles away. The Indian government was coordinating with both Dominica and Antigua & Barbuda to bring Choksi back, considering he was currently located illegally in a jurisdiction from where he could be repatriated on the basis of the Interpol red notice, people familiar with developments said. A senior Indian investigator agreed that India now had better chances to bring Choksi back. “We are in touch with authorities in Dominica to get him repatriated to India. He is not a citizen there so he can be deported quickly,” he said on condition of anonymity.In Antigua, PM Gaston Browne told reporters that Choksi should be declared persona non grata and sent to India instead of Antigua & Barbuda, where he has legal and constitution protection as a citizen. “We asked them (Dominica) not to repatriate him to Antigua. He needs to return to India where he can face the criminal charges levelled against him”, Browne told journalists. Browne added that Choksi had made a monumental error by fleeing to Dominica. However, acting police chief of Dominica Lincoln Corbette hinted that he may not be sent back to India. “Mehul Choksi is in Dominica only and he will be sent back to Antigua when everything is ascertained,” he said. A statement issued by Dominica on Thursday also suggested that Choksi may be repatriated to Antigua. The statement, issued by Dominica’s ministry of national security and home affairs, while calling Choksi as an “Indian citizen”, confirmed he has been detained by law enforcement for illegal entry into Dominica. It said the ministry was in communication with the authorities of Antigua & Barbuda to ascertain some facts “including the status of his Antiguan citizenship”. “Once the information is provided by the Antigua authorities, possible arrangements will be made for Mr Mehul Choksi to be repatriated to Antigua,” the statement added. Choksi’s lawyers contended that repatriation to India may be legally complicated, especially because India doesn’t have an extradition treaty with Dominica and Choksi currently holds Antiguan citizenship. His lawyer in Dominica – Wayne Marsh – alleged on local radio that the 62-year-old businessman was abducted at Jolly Harbour in Antigua and brought to Dominica by police officers from India and Dominica on Sunday itself. He further alleged that Choksi was tortured and kept like a prisoner. “We were denied access to Mr Choksi yesterday. Luckily, this morning, I met him and noticed that he was severely beaten, his eyes were swollen, and he had several marks… apparently he was burnt by some electrical device. He reports to me that he was abducted at Jolly Harbour and brought to Dominica, by persons who he believes to be Indian and Antiguan police in a vessel which he describes to be 60 to 70 feet…,” Marsh said to a local FM channel in Roseau. “Mr Choksi is entitled to legal representation, whether he is in Antigua or in Dominica. The facts are that Mr Choksi is an Antiguan citizen. He is not an Indian citizen,” he added. Choksi’s lawyer in New Delhi Vijay Aggarwal said they had filed a habeas corpus petition in Dominica and also alleged lack of access to the businessman and deprivation of constitutional rights to legal assistance. “My understanding is that his reaching Dominica is not voluntary. So, I find something fishy that nobody seems to be at the moment looking into the fact that how exactly he reached Dominica,” he said. Citing Section 9 of the Indian Citizenship Act, Aggarwal said Choksi could only be deported to Antigua. “The moment Mehul Choksi acquired the citizenship of Antigua, he ceased to be a citizen of India. Hence legally as per the Immigration and Passport Act, Section 17 and 23, he can be deported only to Antigua,” Aggarwal said in a statement. India has cordial relations with the Commonwealth of Dominica, which has population of around 72,000. As part of the Vaccine Maitri initiative, India donated 35,000 doses to Dominica in February this year. India exports mainly pharmaceutical products, ready-made garments, textiles and home furnishings, and food products to Dominica, while the latter exports mainly scrap metals. Bilateral trade between India and Dominica during 2017-18 amounted to US$2.38 million. The Indian government also provided financial support of US$ 1 lakh as immediate relief and granted US$ 1 million for infrastructure reconstruction in Dominica under the India UNDP Fund in the aftermath of Hurricane Maria in 2017. On several occasions in the past, the Antiguan government has said that it was ready to extradite Choksi to India, for which the process is already on. His extradition case as well as revocation of citizenship by Antigua is currently being pursued in a court there, which he has challenged.Choksi, who sought refuge in Antigua after allegedly cheating PNB of ₹13,578 crore along with his nephew Nirav Modi, and fleeing India in 2018, left his home on Sunday to go for dinner at a well-known restaurant in the southern part of the island and was never seen again. His car was found in Jolly Harbour, a popular nightspot in the 280 sq km island with a population of less than 100,000 people||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-pushes-to-get-choksi-repatriated-from-the-caribbean-101622142001021.html
28-05-2021||India||Street vendors slam K’taka govt’s ₹2k aid per vendor||Bengaluru: With Karnataka government extending the lockdown by two more weeks, the street vendors in Bengaluru have been left in the lurch. The lockdown will be in place till June 7. Even though the government has allowed them to operate between 6 am to 10 am, many vendors say that unlike the big shops they are unable to cope with the losses. While they had pinned their hopes on the economic package announced by the government on May 19, the meager allocation of ₹2,000 per vendor has come as a disappointment for many of them. Other than financial problems, many vendors have been complaining of police harassment and loss of property due to police action. Struggling to meet ends during the lockdown and facing harassment, several street vendor unions in Bengaluru have come together to demand a change in the current rules. “In the present circumstances, a lockdown has been announced yet again. Several street vendors have succumbed to Covid-19. They have been put in a position where they have to choose between safeguarding their health and livelihood,” read a statement issued by the consortium of street vendor unions on Wednesday. “Despite the state government declaring street vending as an essential service and that fruits, vegetables and flower vending was permitted, the police arbitrarily thrashed street vendors and verbally abused them. The same was reported all over the media and we bear testament to it,” the statement added. A member of the union added that while the lockdown has been imposed due to the failures of the government, street vendors have been forced to bear the brunt. “Politicians and bureaucrats are not impacted as they earn a salary and maybe they have other perks as well. However, we are the ones being punished. Even though we are ready to earn our livelihoods, we have been put under lockdown in our homes,” S Babu, president of Bangalore Jilla Beedi Vyapari Sanghataneegala Okkuta. “We have been working very hard to earn an income for the past one year. To add insult to injury, on May 19 the Karnataka government announced financial assistance of Rs. 2,000. This is absolutely inhuman and undignified and displays ignorance of the government towards the plight of the street vendors. We have a right to live and the same must be protected. We are ready to work, and the restrictions on our work must be lifted. Otherwise, we must be paid ₹15,000 a month as financial assistance,” he added. Syed Zameer of Shivajinagar Street Vendors Union said the Karnataka government must stop spending on expenditures and must support street vendors by providing financial assistance of Rs. 15,000, while Vanaja, a street vendor in Gandhi Bazaar also urged the government to bring in a moratorium on all loans and rents. Various street vendors unions in the city have also prepared a memorandum, which has been sent to the government. In the memorandum, the vendors have raised demands such as extending the timings for vending fruits and vegetables till 2 pm, instruction to police not to harass street vendors, financial assistance of ₹15,000 to every street vendor, government waiver on the interest of loans taken from banks and private parties and moratorium on rent-payment. They also demanded that a Kerala model of Public Distribution System (PDS) must be adopted, and rice, dal, grams and cooking oil must be provided to poor street vendors. They have also sought that street vendors must be provided free vaccination near markets and at their homes. A senior BBMP official said that they have proposed the government to allow the street vendors to operate till 6 pm like the milk booths and government-run vegetable shops and that a decision will be out soon. “The proposal is in consideration,” said the senior BBMP official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/street-vendors-slam-k-taka-govt-s-2k-aid-per-vendor-101622141941088.html
28-05-2021||India||Yediyurappa downplays infighting talks, says focus on Covid||BengaluruAs murmurs of leadership change grow loud in Karnataka, chief minister BS Yediyurappa on Thursday said his only priority was to deal with the Covid-19 pandemic and that he had no reason to indulge in other matters. “I only have Covid in front of me. To control it and people’s welfare is my only priority. If someone went to someplace, they have been sent back with an answer,” Yediyurappa told reporters in Bengaluru on Thursday.The statement came a day after at least two Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders, including one minister, went to Delhi, purportedly to meet the party top brass in connection with the possibility of a change in leadership in the state.The clamour of an imminent leadership change in Karnataka has grown louder with increasing instances of conflict within the BJP and the government led by Yediyurappa.At least two BJP legislators aware of the developments indicated a possible change post the calming of the pandemic, which continues to keep Karnataka in its firm and tightening grip.The recent defeat in Maski assembly bypoll and wafer-thin margin of victory in Belagavi Lok Sabha by-election has also gone against the 78-year-old chief minister.CP Yogeshwara, member of the Karnataka legislative council and minister for tourism, ecology and environment, on Thursday said he went to Delhi “for personal reasons”.Yogeshwara was one of the two leaders who rushed to Delhi on Tuesday, fueling speculation of possible leadership changes in the party.“I keep going to Delhi and can’t say everything to the media. I will share more in the coming days,” Yogeshwara told reporters in Bengaluru on Thursday.He added that he went to Delhi to convey his own problems.He, however, reiterated that the BJP in Karnataka was working like a coalition government with the other two political parties--apparent reference to Congress and Janata Dal (Secular)--appeared to be in power.“The day I became an MLC, I said it does not appear as a pure BJP government. It appears to be a three-party government that is taking shape,” he said.He added that he would not allow anyone else to wield power in his administrative jurisdiction. Yogeshwara lost his seat against HD Kumaraswamy of the JD(S) in Channapatna in 2018 assembly elections. He, however, was able to secure a seat in the legislature, apparently rewarded for his role in securing the support of the 17 turncoat legislators who defected to the BJP, which led to the collapse of the Kumaraswamy-led JD(S)-Congress coalition government in the state.Meanwhile, other ministers in the BJP tried to rally behind Yediyurappa, dismissing any speculation of a leadership change.MP Renukacharya, BJP legislator from Honnali and political secretary to the chief minister, on Thursday used the choicest of abuses against Yogeshwara and his apparent attempt to seek a leadership change.The entire episode has widened the rift within the BJP, making them an easier target for the opposition to go after in the run up to the 2023 assembly elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/yediyurappa-downplays-infighting-talks-says-focus-on-covid-101622141701024.html
28-05-2021||India||Digital news publishers get 15 days to share details as per new IT guidelines||The ministry of information and broadcasting has set a 15-day deadline for digital news media publishers, including websites of legacy media houses, and over-the-top (OTT) platforms like Netflix and Hotstar, to share details under the new social media and digital ethics rules. This has caused some concern among publishers who fear free and fair reporting may be impacted by these new regulations.While digital news media publishers aren’t required to be registered with the ministry, the government has asked for information about their grievance redressal officer in India, the self-regulating body of which the publisher is a member, and the details of the editor.“A total of around 60 publishers, and their associations, have also informed the ministry that they have already initiated the process of formation of self-regulatory bodies under the rules. Some publishers have also written to the ministry regarding registration with the ministry under the rules,” a ministry notice said.The contentious new guidelines were notified by the government on May 25, establishing a three-tier self-regulatory system for OTT platforms. It also requires the streaming services to categorise content and use different ratings to specify its appropriateness for different age groups. At the apex of the three-tier system will be an interministerial panel headed by an authorised officer of the ministry. This panel can ban content it finds violative of Section 69(A) of the IT Act.On Thursday, the News Broadcasters Association wrote to I&B minister Prakash Javadekar, seeking exemption for traditional media publishers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/digital-news-publishers-get-15-days-to-share-details-as-per-new-it-guidelines-101622141461003.html
28-05-2021||India||Legal hurdles may hit Choksi’s repatriation||Government investigators on Thursday pushed to bring back fugitive diamantaire Mehul Choksi, who was captured in Dominica two days after mysteriously vanishing from Antigua & Barbuda, even as the businessman’s lawyers alleged he was abducted and deportation to India was not legally permitted.Indian-born Choksi, who fled the country in 2018 after being charged in the ₹13,578 Punjab National Bank cheating case, was apprehended by the Criminal Investigation Division (CID) in the Caribbean island of Dominica on Tuesday night on the basis of an Interpol “yellow notice”. He had gone missing in Antigua on Sunday evening, roughly 101 nautical miles away.The Indian government was coordinating with both Dominica and Antigua & Barbuda to bring Choksi back, considering he was currently located illegally in a jurisdiction from where he could be repatriated on the basis of the Interpol red notice, people familiar with developments said.A senior Indian investigator agreed that India now had better chances to bring Choksi back. “We are in touch with authorities in Dominica to get him repatriated to India. He is not a citizen there so he can be deported quickly,” he said on condition of anonymity.In Antigua, PM Gaston Browne told reporters that Choksi should be declared persona non grata and sent to India instead of Antigua & Barbuda, where he has legal and constitution protection as a citizen.“We asked them (Dominica) not to repatriate him to Antigua. He needs to return to India where he can face the criminal charges levelled against him”, Browne told journalists. Browne added that Choksi had made a monumental error by fleeing to Dominica.However, acting police chief of Dominica Lincoln Corbette hinted that he may not be sent back to India. “Mehul Choksi is in Dominica only and he will be sent back to Antigua when everything is ascertained,” he said.A statement issued by Dominica on Thursday also suggested that Choksi may be repatriated to Antigua.The statement, issued by Dominica’s ministry of national security and home affairs, while calling Choksi as an “Indian citizen”, confirmed he has been detained by law enforcement for illegal entry into Dominica. It said the ministry was in communication with the authorities of Antigua & Barbuda to ascertain some facts “including the status of his Antiguan citizenship”.“Once the information is provided by the Antigua authorities, possible arrangements will be made for Mr Mehul Choksi to be repatriated to Antigua,” the statement added.Choksi’s lawyers contended that repatriation to India may be legally complicated, especially because India doesn’t have an extradition treaty with Dominica and Choksi currently holds Antiguan citizenship.His lawyer in Dominica – Wayne Marsh – alleged on local radio that the 62-year-old businessman was abducted at Jolly Harbour in Antigua and brought to Dominica by police officers from India and Dominica on Sunday itself. He further alleged that Choksi was tortured and kept like a prisoner.“We were denied access to Mr Choksi yesterday. Luckily, this morning, I met him and noticed that he was severely beaten, his eyes were swollen, and he had several marks… apparently he was burnt by some electrical device. He reports to me that he was abducted at Jolly Harbour and brought to Dominica, by persons who he believes to be Indian and Antiguan police in a vessel which he describes to be 60 to 70 feet…,” Marsh said to a local FM channel in Roseau.“Mr Choksi is entitled to legal representation, whether he is in Antigua or in Dominica. The facts are that Mr Choksi is an Antiguan citizen. He is not an Indian citizen,” he added.Choksi’s lawyer in New Delhi Vijay Aggarwal said they had filed a habeas corpus petition in Dominica and also alleged lack of access to the businessman and deprivation of constitutional rights to legal assistance.“My understanding is that his reaching Dominica is not voluntary. So, I find something fishy that nobody seems to be at the moment looking into the fact that how exactly he reached Dominica,” he said.Citing Section 9 of the Indian Citizenship Act, Aggarwal said Choksi could only be deported to Antigua. “The moment Mehul Choksi acquired the citizenship of Antigua, he ceased to be a citizen of India. Hence legally as per the Immigration and Passport Act, Section 17 and 23, he can be deported only to Antigua,” Aggarwal said in a statement.India has cordial relations with the Commonwealth of Dominica, which has population of around 72,000.As part of the Vaccine Maitri initiative, India donated 35,000 doses to Dominica in February this year. India exports mainly pharmaceutical products, ready-made garments, textiles and home furnishings, and food products to Dominica, while the latter exports mainly scrap metals. Bilateral trade between India and Dominica during 2017-18 amounted to US$2.38 million.The Indian government also provided financial support of US$ 1 lakh as immediate relief and granted US$ 1 million for infrastructure reconstruction in Dominica under the India UNDP Fund in the aftermath of Hurricane Maria in 2017.On several occasions in the past, the Antiguan government has said that it was ready to extradite Choksi to India, for which the process is already on. His extradition case as well as revocation of citizenship by Antigua is currently being pursued in a court there, which he has challenged.Choksi, who sought refuge in Antigua after allegedly cheating PNB of ₹13,578 crore along with his nephew Nirav Modi, and fleeing India in 2018, left his home on Sunday to go for dinner at a well-known restaurant in the southern part of the island and was never seen again. His car was found in Jolly Harbour, a popular nightspot in the 280 sq km island with a population of less than 100,000 people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/legal-hurdles-may-hit-choksi-s-repatriation-101622141340974.html
28-05-2021||India||Farm sector unscathed by 2nd Covid wave||India’s agriculture sector, which employs nearly half the country’s working population, appears to have been unscathed during the second national wave of Covid infections, just as it was during the first outbreak in 2020. The resilience will, in all likelihood, keep the farm growth rate in positive territory, cushioning rural incomes, even as the pandemic weighs on the broader economy, analysts said.Less stringent lockdowns, better rain, uninterrupted credit flow, and functioning rural supply lines for inputs such as fertilisers, kept farmers going, although rural India saw a surge in infections, several experts said.The country is projected to produce a record 304 million tonne of foodgrains in 2020-21, 2.66% more than the previous year, according to the third of the four annual projections by the agricultural ministry released this week.The share of rural districts in total new cases stood at 44.1% for in April 2021, lower than the previous peak of 55.2% in August 2020, according to district-level data on Covid-19 cases analysed by HT.Although the main kharif or summer-sown season will start in June, with the arrival of the monsoon, official data shows total summer crops sown during April and May stood at 8.46 million hectares, rising 21% over last year’s 6.64 million hectares. The second wave of Covid-19 peaked during these months. April is also the month when farmers successfully harvested rabi crops such as wheat and pulses.Two years of back-to-back normal monsoon (2019 and 2020) was key reason behind the record farm output. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) on April 16 again forecast normal rainfall during June-September monsoon at 98%. Rainfall between 94 and 106% is considered “normal”, according to IMD’s classification.Researchers are beginning to study how the sector was holding strong despite the pandemic. “This sowing progress is promising, given that the second wave. This shows that for Indian agriculture, the preponderant variable still are good rains,” said KS Manu, a farm economist formerly with the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University. Nearly 60% of India’s net-sown area depends on rains because of lack of irrigation facilities.In 2020, when India faced a recession, agriculture was the only sector to post positive growth. It grew 3.4% in the June 2020 quarter, when the overall economy shrunk 24.4%. When all-India growth returned to positive territory in the December 2020 quarter, expanding 0.4%, agriculture grew at 3.9%.“In states such as Andhra Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Punjab and Rajasthan, higher output share of agriculture may cushion the second wave shock,” said DK Joshi, the chief economist of Crisil Ltd, a ratings firm.Data cited by Joshi shows rural resilience may have also helped the manufacturing sector because about half of India’s manufacturing output comes from rural areas.“The purchasing managers index for the manufacturing sector has remained above the 50 expansion mark despite recent regional lockdowns and restrictions,” he said.To be sure, when the pandemic swept into India in 2020, it impacted agriculture marketing and prices, according to a study by Ramakumar, who is Nabard chair professor at Tata Institute of Social Sciences. “Farmers reeled under the impact of labour shortage, as agricultural operations suffered and costs of labour rose,” he wrote in a study published in January in the Review of Agrarian Studies.However, labour shortage was quickly compensated by a rise in the number of women in the fields, meaning womenfolk in rural households stepped in to mitigate the labour crisis, says Alokesh Khandekar of the Consultative Group on International Agricultural Research, who is currently leading a study on the impact of Covid on agriculture.Analysts say credit flow, or institutional farm loans, during the pandemic helped insulate the sector. “The government’s stimulus package was mostly credit-led rather than direct cash. The National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development was allotted additional ₹30,000 crore of emergency capital to provide credit to 30 million small farmers,” said Ravi Prakash Shukla, Khandekar’s co-researcher.TISS’s Ramakumar, however, found higher market disruptions in 2020, leading to lower produce being sold as compared to 2019, contrary to the government’s figures. Producers of perishables suffered permanent losses, his study states.A robust monsoon is on the cards, and “agriculture output is therefore expected to be healthy,” Joshi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-sector-unscathed-by-second-covid-wave-101622141280868.html
28-05-2021||India||India concerned at violence in Jerusalem, possible eviction in Sheikh Jarrah||India on Thursday expressed concern at the continuing violence in Jerusalem, especially at Haram Al Sharif and other Palestinian territories, and the possible eviction of people in Sheikh Jarrah and Silwan neighbourhoods in East Jerusalem.New Delhi’s concerns were conveyed in a statement by Indra Mani Pandey, the country’s permanent representative to the UN in Geneva, during a special session of the Human Rights Council. India also welcomed diplomatic efforts by the world community and regional countries that led to the ceasefire between Israel and armed groups in Gaza.As with India’s statement on May 20 at the UN General Assembly debate on the question of Palestine, the statement at the UN Human Rights Council contained no reference to India’s traditional stance of supporting the “just Palestinian cause” but reiterated backing for a two-state solution.Israel and Hamas, the Palestinian group that runs Gaza Strip, reached a ceasefire on May 20 following 11 days of hostilities that killed more than 250 Palestinians, including 66 children, and 12 people in Israel, including two children and an Indian national. The truce brokered by Egypt has been threatened by tensions over Jerusalem.Israel’s Supreme Court is currently hearing a case related to the eviction of Palestinian residents from the East Jerusalem neighbourhood of Sheikh Jarrah, a matter that ignited tensions between Israelis and Palestinians. A lower court in Jerusalem is also hearing appeals filed on behalf of seven Palestinian families who are opposing their eviction from Silwan neighbourhood.“We remain concerned about the continuing violence in Jerusalem, especially at Haram Al Sharif/Temple Mount and other Palestinian territories, and about the possible eviction process in Sheikh Jarrah and Silwan neighbourhoods in East Jerusalem, an area which is part of an arrangement facilitated by the UN,” Pandey said in his statement.“India calls on all parties to show extreme restraint, desist from actions that aggravate tensions and refrain from any further attempts to unilaterally change the existing status quo, including in East Jerusalem and its neighbourhoods,” he added.Pandey reiterated India’s condemnation of Hamas’ “indiscriminate rocket firings from Gaza targeting the civilian population in Israel” and said both the rockets and Israel’s “retaliatory air strikes into Gaza” over the last two weeks had caused immense suffering and resulted in deaths.“We deeply mourn the loss of civilian lives resulting from the violence, and urge the international community’s immediate attention to providing humanitarian assistance to the Palestinian civilian population, particularly in Gaza,” he said.India is continuing to provide developmental and humanitarian assistance to the Palestinian Authority, including Covid-19-related aid bilaterally and through contributions to the UN, Pandey said.“India remains firmly convinced that dialogue remains the only viable option that can effectively address the issues confronting the region and its people. Recent developments have once again underscored the need for immediate resumption of dialogue between Israel and Palestine, aimed at realising the establishment of two States living side by side in peace within secure and recognised borders,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-concerned-at-violence-in-jerusalem-possible-eviction-in-sheikh-jarrah-101622141221693.html
28-05-2021||India||Collector says new rules meant to ‘develop tourism’ in Lakshadweep||The proposed new rules in Lakshadweep are for the benefit of the people and a misinformation campaign is being carried out by people with vested interests to project the Union territory administration in poor light, said collector S Askar Ali at a media conference in Kochi on Thursday. This was even as an all-party virtual meet in the island, attended even by some BJP leaders, decided to move court against the controversial rules brought in by UT administrator Praful Khoda Patel.In the first official briefing since the controversy erupted, the collector defended the administration, saying everything was being done to develop Lakshadweep as a tourism hub.Ali gave the example of the island nation of Maldives and said it has the same features and climate as Lakshadweep but is way ahead in tourism. “Our idea is to develop tourism in the island to help the local economy and provide better jobs to the youth. Many youths either go outside for jobs or engage in traditional vocations. We have to change it,” Ali said.On the more controversial orders, Ali said that there was no beef ban in the island, but cow slaughter is barred just like in a few other states and UTs. On the altered midday meal menu, Ali said beef and chicken were taken out to popularise fish and the decision was taken by the education department. He said egg and fish were still part of the menu.On the proposal to allow alcohol, the collector said it will be restricted to the tourism industry alone and some of the charges being levelled at the administration on this are baseless.About the imposition of the Goonda Act, Ali said the crime rate was going up and there was a need to nip it in the bud. “We have reports about some youth being attracted to the drug trade. Recently, the coast guard seized drugs worth ₹3,000 crore near one of the uninhabited islands. Such laws are only meant for such forces,” the collector said.However, political parties are already getting ready to challenge the new rules in court. This was decided at an all-party virtual meet on Thursday where even BJP leaders were present. It was also decided to meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi next week over the matter.Congress leader Rahul Gandhi wrote to PM on Thursday, saying that the “anti-people policies” are posing a threat to the future of the people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/collector-says-new-rules-meant-to-develop-tourism-in-lakshadweep-101622141160922.html
28-05-2021||India||Amid Covid-19 vaccine crunch, India Inc steps in to inoculate employees||Many of India’s largest conglomerates and companies are focusing on vaccinating their employees , largely through partnerships with private health care providers and, in some cases, government vaccination centres.The list of companies that are doing this includes Tata Consultancy Services, India’s largest employer in the IT sector (it employs around 400,000 people ), M&M, Ashok Leyland, and Sundaram Clayton.Many of the companies are also extending the facility to families of their employees.In most cases, the shots, for both the employees and their families, are free.In a statement TCS said it started vaccination camps in a few cities in early May and has now increased the scale of its drive. “TCS is setting up over 100 CVCs (COVID Vaccination Centres) across India; this includes CVC’s across TCS offices in 21 cities and CVCs launched with our primary medical partner across 33 cities. For associates that do not have access to CVCs in these areas, we are also enabling access to vaccination centers via a national network of more than 650 hospitals,” the company said in a statement.Another IT firm Accenture, said in a communication that it is organizing vaccinations in Bengaluru and NCR and has asked employees to register for appointments two days in advance.In all cases, the employees have to register on the Co-win portal of the government, but will not have to worry about scheduling appointments -- a process that has become difficult even in private vaccination centres given the crunch in vaccine supplies.Arjun Vaidyanathan, COO of KPMG in India, said the firm has tied up with Ekincare to provide vaccination for employees in more than 150 centres across the country. The centres cover all KPMG office locations and many that are not -- some employees are working from other locations. “We have already had our vaccination camps in Delhi, Gurgaon, Chandigarh, Kolkata, Bengaluru and Mumbai. Rest of the locations will follow in due course,” said Arjun.Employees are delighted. Mukul Dikshit, senior consultant at EY and his colleague Divya Deora posted pictures of a vaccination camps in their Kolkata office on Linkedin. Deora also commented: “Indeed we are building a better working world.”Till Tuesday evening, India had administered 200.5 million vaccinations. This breaks up into 43.4 million fully vaccinated people (both doses), and 113.5 million people who have received one dose.Last year, the government mooted a proposal to allow companies in strategically important sectors to negotiate directly with vaccine manufacturers for doses for their workforce. An official said that the current system is better as it allows any company to tie up with health care companies.N V Balachandar, Ashok Leyland’s President, HR & CSR, said in a statement that vaccination camps have been organised for employees and their families and “about 75% of the 45+ age group in the company have been vaccinated so far. Across age groups, 25% have been vaccinated as we speak, this vaccination drive will continue with huge momentum.”Mahindra & Mahindra’s spokesperson said that “100% of first vaccination has been achieved for all Mahindra employees above 45 years” and the company is also working with hospitals to set up vaccination clinics across the country. Similarly, TVS Motor Company and Sundaram Clayton Ltd. have vaccinated all employees above 45 years. “All employees above the age of 18 years at our Hosur, Mysore, and Bangalore offices are now being vaccinated in collaboration with various hospitals and PHCs,”the company said in a statement.Godrej & Boyce will start its vaccination drive through the Godrej Memorial Hospital (GMH) in Mumbai while Cement producer LafargeHolcim has arranged for the vaccination of all its employees and families.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-vaccine-crunch-india-inc-steps-in-to-inoculate-employees-101622141100818.html
28-05-2021||India||We recognise, respect right to privacy: Centre||Union electronics and information technology minister Ravi Shankar Prasad on Thursday maintained the government “fully recognises and respects the right of privacy” and said the new rules for intermediaries were designed to empower citizens and prevent the “abuse and misuse” of social media.His remarks came as Twitter became the second internet giant to oppose the rules, saying it presented a threat to the right to free speech and expression of its users. A day before, WhatsApp challenged the rules in the Delhi high court, saying it risked a dangerous invasion of privacy.“The new Rules require the social media companies to set up an India-based grievance redressal officer, compliance officer and nodal officer so that millions of users of social media who have a grievance get a forum for its redressal,” Prasad posted on Koo, a micro-blogging website similar to Twitter, billed as an Indian alternative to the US-based service.Prasad said ordinary users of WhatsApp have nothing to fear about the new rules. “Its entire objective is to find out who started the message that led to commissioning of specific crimes mentioned in the Rules.”He clarified the “obligation to reveal” the first originator of an offensive message already in circulation “relates only to offences relating to sovereignty, integrity & security of India, public order, rape, child sexual abuse”. “That too when other less intrusive measures are not effective.”The government on Wednesday wrote to social media companies such as Facebook and Twitter to send details of their compliance officers, nodal contact persons, resident grievance officers and physical contact addresses in India. It asked them to confirm if they have complied with the new Information Technology Act guidelines after the deadline to do so ended on Tuesday. None of these companies have complied yet, with Facebook being the first on Tuesday to hint at some “issues that need to be discussed”.The controversial guidelines direct the companies to put in place a new mechanism to regulate content, appoint officers who will be liable for compliance, and adopt features such as traceability of messages and voluntary user verification.WhatsApp has a resident grievance officer. It is yet to appoint a compliance officer. Twitter and Facebook have not appointed anyone yet.Prasad’s ministry separately released a statement against Twitter, after the company said it was concerned about the potential threat to the freedom of expression of its users, as well as about its employees. “Twitter’s statement is an attempt to dictate its terms to the world’s largest democracy,” the ministry said in a press statement. “Twitter refuses to comply with those very regulations in the Intermediary Guidelines on the basis of which it is claiming a safe harbour protection from any criminal liability in India... Government condemns the unfortunate statement issued by Twitter as totally baseless, false and an attempt to defame India to hide their own follies,” it added.The government stated that Twitter had allowed the “geo-location of Ladakh to be shown in China, treated the violence at Capitol Hill and Red Fort differently, promoted vaccine hesitancy and allowed the use of the term Indian variant for the Covid strain despite WHO guidelines against it”.It charged the microblogging website of “not taking action against fake narratives” and propagating “grandiose claims of serving the people of India”.“India has a glorious tradition of free speech and democratic practices dating back centuries. Protecting free speech in India is not the prerogative of only a private, for-profit, foreign entity like Twitter,” the ministry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/we-recognise-respect-right-to-privacy-centre-101622140980918.html
28-05-2021||India||HC to hear TMC leaders’ petition in 2016 Narada case today||A five-judge bench of the Calcutta high court will hear on Friday the recall petition of four senior Trinamool Congress (TMC) leaders accused in the 2016 Narada sting operation case against a stay order on their bail.The four leaders will continue to remain under house arrest till then. While two of them are admitted in a state-run hospital, two went back home after the court put them under house arrest on May 21. The bench on Thursday, however, questioned the Central Bureau of Investigation if a judicial order can be disregarded on the basis of public perception.Solicitor General Tushar Mehta appearing for the agency sought that the entire proceedings that took place at a special CBI court on May 17 be declared as vitiated and non-est. The court, however, said that if there is nothing on record to show that the special CBI court was influenced, then how could the bench look into other factors.TMC MP and advocate Kalyan Banerjee appearing on behalf of Subrata Mukherjee, one of the accused, told the court that when a recall application on a stay order is filed it must be heard within two weeks. The recall petition was filed on May 19. The CBI on May 17 arrested the leaders. On May 21, however, the HC put them under house arrest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hc-to-hear-tmc-leaders-petition-in-2016-narada-case-today-101622139360231.html
28-05-2021||India||Improvement in medical infrastructure of 5 districts: Allahabad HC||The Allahabad high court on Thursday expressed satisfaction with regard to the “improvement of medical facilities” in the hospitals of Bahraich, Shravasti, Bijnor, Barabanki and Jaunpur districts after perusing a report filed by the state government.The bench comprising justice Siddhartha Varma and justice Ajit Kumar, while hearing a suo moto PIL litigation, said, “We have perused the report and do appreciate that some work has been done with regard to the improvement of medical infrastructure and hope that similar efforts will be made in respect of other districts as well. By the next date, the State Government may further give a report with regard to the improvement of medical infrastructures in five more districts, namely, Bhadohi, Ghazipur, Ballia, Deoria and Shamli.” The court fixed the next date of hearing on June 7.In its order, the court also mentioned that satisfactory work had been done for the capping of fee for carrying out Covid tests. “...In respect of RT-PCR tests the fee ranges between ₹500/- and ₹900/-. For Antigen tests the fee has been fixed for ₹200/-. For True Nat private testing has been fixed for ₹1200.”Last week, the court had criticised the government stating the health services were ‘ Ram Bharose’ (at God’s mercy).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/improvement-in-medical-infra-of-5-districts-allahabad-hc-101622139302631.html
28-05-2021||India||Congress writes to Delhi top cop over ‘illegal enquiry’ in toolkit case||Senior Congress leader Rajeev Gowda on Thursday wrote a letter to the Delhi police commissioner alleging that without registering an FIR, the police were conducting an “illegal preliminary enquiry” on his May 18 complaint related to the “sharing and uploading of a fake toolkit” by senior Bharatiya Janata Party leaders on social media.Gowda, chairperson of the Research Department of the All India Congress Committee(AICC), also shared a copy of the letter on Twitter, in which he has accused Delhi police of not registering a First Information Report (FIR) and allegedly protecting the BJP leaders.In the letter, signed by Gowda and another Congress leader, Rohan Gupta, chairman of the party’s social media department, the two have asked Delhi police commissioner SN Shrivastava to transfer their May 18 complaint to the Chhattisgarh police because police there have already registered an FIR and are probing the case. The two leaders had filed a similar complaint against BJP leaders with the Chhattisgarh police too on May 18.The BJP has said that the documents posted by BJP leader Sambit Patra were part of a “toolkit” made to defame Prime Minister Narendra Modi and build a biased narrative over Covid-19 management and the Central Vista project.Delhi police on May 22 asked the two Congress leaders to join the investigation as they started a preliminary enquiry into the allegations. The two were sent notices on May 21, the same day Twitter’s (India) managing director Manish Maheshwari was sent a notice, asking him for his participation in the investigation through his physical presence at the special cell’s Lodhi Colony office on May 22. However, none of the three joined the enquiry that is being done by the special cell.Gowda accused the Delhi police of failing to register an FIR because they were under pressure.In the letter, Gowda wrote “ we have also been informed that Chhattisgarh police has already written to you vide letter 22.5.2021 asking you to transfer the material.”Delhi Police did not immediately offer a response to Gowda’s letter.But a police officer, privy to the case details, who wished not to be named, said, “The two Congress leaders sent their complaint over mail... We also wanted to verify if the complaints were indeed filed by them. This is a routine process.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cong-writes-to-delhi-top-cop-over-illegal-enquiry-in-toolkit-case-101622139000787.html
28-05-2021||India||Centre extends term of IB head, RAW chief by a year||Intelligence Bureau (IB) director Arvinda Kumar and Research and Analysis Wing (RAW) chief Samant Kumar Goel were on Thursday granted a year’s extension in service, an order issued by the appointments committee of Cabinet (ACC) said.Kumar and Goel will continue to head their respective agencies till June 30, 2022, the order said. Their tenure was set to end on June 30 this year.Goel is a 1984-batch Indian Police Service (IPS) officer from the Punjab cadre, and Kumar, a 1984-batch officer, belongs to the Assam-Meghalaya cadre. The two were appointed to head the agencies in June 2019 for a fixed tenure of two years.Kumar is an expert on counterterrorism and Kashmir. Goel was instrumental in India’s planning the 2019 Balakot strikes following the Pulwama attack by Jaish-e-Mohammad. He also played a key role in coordinating with the Army during the 2016 surgical strikes following the Uri attack.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-extends-term-of-ib-head-raw-chief-by-a-year-101622136479841.html
28-05-2021||India||Not India, Mehul Choksi will be sent to Antigua, says Dominica's acting police chief||Fugitive diamantaire Mehul Choksi, who went missing from Antigua and surfaced in Dominica, may be repatriated to Antigua and Barbuda, the Dominican ministry of national security and home affairs said on Wednesday. In a statement, the Dominican government said it had sought some information about Choksi’s citizenship status.“Mehul Choksi is in Dominica only and he will be sent back to Antigua when everything is ascertained,” Lincoln Corbette, the acting police chief of Dominica told Hindustan Times.The Dominican government’s statement comes a day after Prime Minister Gaston Browne of Antigua and Barbuda declared that his country did not want Choksi and made it known that he would prefer that Choksi be directly repatriated from Dominica to India where he is wanted for bank fraud.People familiar with the matter in India have indicated that it wasn’t as simple as PM Browne made it appear since Choksi was a citizen of Antigua.The statement from the Dominican capital Roseau appeared to reflect this assessment.Explained: Mehul Choksi caught in Dominica but India may have to wait to get him"The Ministry of National Security and Home Affairs is in communication with the authorities of Antigua and Barbuda to ascertain some facts including the status of his Antiguan Citizenship. Once the information is provided by the Antigua authorities, possible arrangements will be made for Mr. Mehul Choksi to be repatriated to Antigua," the statement said.Choksi was reported missing on Sunday, hours after he left his home for dinner at a well-known restaurant in the southern part of the island and was never seen again. A massive manhunt was launched by the Antiguan police. Choksi's car, in which he travelled to the restaurant, was recovered but there was no sign of the diamantaire.He was reported to have been apprehended on Tuesday by authorities in Dominica, another Caribbean island located about 100 nautical miles from Antigua.Choksi, however, has rebutted this version claimed by the authorities in Antigua and claimed that he was abducted, forced to get into a vessel from Jolly Harbour in Antigua and taken to Dominica.Choksi's lawyer in India Vijay Aggarwal said he had spoken to his client who told him that Choksi was kept in a police station since Monday, long before the news of his detention in Dominica was made public. "There is something fishy and I guess it was a strategy to take him to another country so that there are chances of sending him back to India. I don’t know what forces are operating, the time will tell," Aggarwal said, citing his conversation with the diamantaire.The 61-year-old and his nephew Nirav Modi are wanted in India for allegedly siphoning off nearly ₹14,000 crore of public money from the state-run Punjab National Bank (PNB), using letters of undertaking.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mehul-choksi-to-be-sent-back-to-antigua-says-dominica-101622133912007.html
28-05-2021||India||Explained: Mehul Choksi caught in Dominica but India may have to wait to get him||Efforts by Indian authorities to get back fugitive diamond trader Mehul Choksi will depend on the response to the request for his repatriation from Dominica, a country with which India doesn’t have an extradition treaty or arrangement.People familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity that several complex legal issues will decide the case of Choksi, a key accused in bank fraud cases involving the Punjab National Bank, including legal remedies available to him in Dominica.The people made it clear that the matter wasn’t as cut and dry as the assertion by Prime Minister Gaston Browne of Antigua and Barbuda – where Choksi sought refuge after fleeing India in 2018 – that the fugitive businessman should be repatriated to India instead of being sent back to Antigua.“There are issues such as Choksi’s Antiguan nationality and whether he has violated any laws in Dominica. If he has violated any laws in Dominica, there is the question of whether authorities there think his case should be processed by the Dominican system,” a person said.While India has an extradition arrangement with Antigua and Barbuda, Dominica isn’t among the 58 countries with which New Delhi has either extradition treaties or arrangements.The people cited above said Indian authorities are in touch with their counterparts in Antigua and Barbuda and Dominica to press for Choki’s speedy repatriation.In cases involving countries with which India doesn’t have an extradition arrangement, the repatriation of fugitives largely depends on decisions made by local authorities, the people said. Such decisions are influenced by the legal remedies available under local laws to the fugitive and assurances given by India regarding the treatment of the fugitive, the people added.Browne has told the media that Antigua doesn’t want Choksi to be sent back and that it would prefer for him to be directly repatriated from Dominica to India. He also contended that Choksi had made a “monumental error” by travelling to Dominica as this had prejudiced the constitutional and legal protections enjoyed by him as an Antiguan citizen.The position adopted by Browne is understandable as Antigua has been trying for the past few years to revoke the citizenship obtained by Choksi under the country’s Citizenship by Investment Program (CIP). The programme, launched in 2013, allows wealthy foreign investors to acquire citizenship by making an economic contribution of $130,000 or a real estate investment of $200,000.Choksi, who allegedly cheated the Punjab National Bank of ₹13,578 crore along with his nephew Nirav Modi, gave up his Indian citizenship and surrendered his passport after obtaining Antiguan citizenship. Browne had last year described Choksi as a “crook” and said he would be repatriated to India after he exhausted his appeals against the move to revoke his citizenship.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/explained-mehul-choksi-caught-in-dominica-but-india-may-have-to-wait-to-get-him-101622129279899.html
28-05-2021||India||AP govt said 11 died due to oxygen at Tirupati hospital, gives compensation to 23||Hyderabad: The Andhra Pradesh government has given ex-gratia payments to families of 23 Covid-19 patients who died at the Sri Venkata Ramnarayan Ruia (SVRR) Hospital in Tirupati earlier this month, suggesting that the tragedy at the state-run hospital had killed more patients than the government had then acknowledged.In the days after the hospital in Andhra Pradesh’s Chittoor ran out of oxygen on May 10 night, state officials had insisted that only 11 deaths could be attributed to the disruption of oxygen.“The oxygen supply was restored within five minutes and everything is now normal. Because of this we could prevent more casualties,” Chittoor district collector M Hari Narayanan said on May 10.But in a letter that he sent on May 19 - the letter was made public by senior Bharatiya Janata Party leader and former member of Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams G Bhanu Prakash Reddy - the district collector appears to concede that apart from the 11 patients declared dead on the night of May 10 due to low pressure in liquid oxygen supply at the hospital, 12 other Covid-19 patients had also died. In the letter, the collector said the state government had released ex gratia of ₹10 lakh each to the families of these 12 patients too and directed the revenue division officer to send the cheques to families of six of them living in Tirupati. BJP leader G Bhanu Prakash Reddy said the letter establishes that the opposition was making a fair point. “Right from the day of the incident, we have been saying that the number of Covid-19 patients who died at SVRR Hospital was much more than what was disclosed by the collector on the fateful night. Now, our charges have proved correct,” Reddy said.The district collector could not be reached for comment. But SVRR Hospital development committee chairman B Chandrasekhar said not all of them died due to low-pressure in oxygen supply.“There were some other deaths due to Covid-19 and other reasons on the same night. And their relatives claimed that these patients also died of short supply of oxygen and demanded compensation. As a result, the government considered their plea and directed that all such families should also be paid compensation,” he said. The BJP leader, who wrote a letter to Governor Biswa Bhushan Harichandan and also filed a public interest litigation petition in the high court on May 11 to seek a thorough probe into the incident, alleged that the government tried to hush up the incident and blame it on the delay in transportation of oxygen from Sriperumbudur to the hospital. “Now, by paying the compensation to 23 people, the government has admitted that the deaths on May 10 night were underreported,” Reddy added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ap-govt-said-11-died-due-to-oxygen-at-tirupati-hospital-gives-compensation-to-23-101622128261173.html
28-05-2021||India||Monsoon to arrive early in Kerala: IMD||Conditions are favourable for the onset of monsoon in Kerala around May 31, a day ahead of its usual date, India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Thursday. IMD scientists said the very severe Cyclonic Yaas, which ravaged Odisha and West Bengal coasts on Wednesday, helped strengthen monsoon winds.Normally, monsoon arrives in Kerala around June 1 and covers the rest of India by mid-July.Sunitha Devi, who is in charge of cyclones at IMD, said there is no likelihood of a low-pressure area developing immediately. “(Cyclone) Yaas has weakened. Now monsoon will gradually pick up,” she saidMahesh Palawat, vice president, Skymet Weather, said Cyclone Yaas helped pull the monsoon current ahead in the Arabian Sea. “There was heavy to very heavy rain reported in many parts of Kerala in the last 24 hours. So, we are expecting the monsoon to arrive early.”OP Sreejith, scientist and head, Climate Monitoring and Prediction Group, said cross-equatorial flow over the Arabian Sea has strengthened because of which heavy rain was reported over Kerala. “But that is not monsoon rain. We are expecting monsoon to arrive on May 31.”On May 14, IMD said Monsoon is likely to arrive over Kerala on May 31 a day ahead of its normal arrival date of June 1, with a possible error margin of plus/minus four days. The monsoon season is crucial for summer crops and brings about 70% of India’s annual rainfall. It is critical to the country’s agriculture, which is one of the mainstays of its economy. The monsoon impacts inflation, jobs, and industrial demand. Good farm output keeps a lid on food inflation. Ample harvests raise rural incomes and help inject demand into the economy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/conditions-favourable-for-onset-of-monsoon-over-kerala-on-may-31-imd-101622116486752.html
28-05-2021||India||Redact parts that reveal woman’s identity: HC tells trial court in Tejpal case||The Bombay high court at Goa on Thursday directed sessions judge Kshama Joshi to redact portions of her judgement that could reveal the identity of a woman who accused journalist Tarun Tejpal of rape and sexual assault in 2013. Last week, Joshi acquitted Tejpal in the case saying the prosecution failed to prove the case beyond reasonable doubt, while suggesting that the woman did not prove a “sterling witness”, and pulling up the Goa Police for trying to suppress crucial pieces of evidence.A vacation bench of justice SC Gupte issued the redaction order while hearing the Goa government’s urgent appeal against the acquittal. The high court also gave the government three days to put the order on record, and amend the grounds of appeal.“[Solicitor General] Tushar] Mehta (who appeared for Goa) pointed out the issues in the judgement. The high court has agreed and directed the sessions judge to make some alterations before the judgement is uploaded,” said Pravin Faldesai, a government advocate.“It appears from the impugned judgment of the learned Sessions Judge, available to this court, but which, the court is informed, is not yet uploaded on the trial court website, that it contains a reference to the victim’s husband and also her email ID,” the bench said.It added that a reference to the name of the mother of the woman was also there in the order. “In the interest of protecting the identity of the victim of an offence, such as the one with which we are concerned in the present case, it is appropriate to have the above references... redacted,” it said.The matter will be next heard on June 2.Tejpal faced allegations of rape and sexual assault by a former colleague in the elevator of a five-star hotel during an event eight years ago.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tejpal-case-hc-tells-court-to-redact-verdict-parts-that-reveal-woman-s-identity-101622111357980.html
28-05-2021||India||'Hindutva policies' concocted imagery, says Jaishankar in US||External affairs minister S Jaishankar has defended the government in the face of criticism in the West of its “Hindutva policies”, saying there is a difference between “concocted” political imagery and the country’s actual governance record.Participating in the Battlegrounds series of virtual discussions hosted by former US national security adviser HR McMaster for the Hoover Institution at Stanford University, Jaishankar said on Wednesday that Indians are “extremely confident about our democracy” and nobody would trade democracy for an alternative form of governance.The foreign minister is currently on a five-day visit to the US, the first by a senior Indian leader since the Biden administration assumed office. Access to Covid-19 vaccines and the situation in Afghanistan are among the key items on his agenda for interactions with his American interlocutors.Jaishankar was responding to pointed questions from McMaster about challenges to democratic countries around the world and concerns in the West amid the Covid-19 pandemic about “Hindutva policies that could be undermining the secular nature of Indian democracy”.The minister framed his responses in the context of what he said were a “straight political answer” and a “slightly more nuanced societal answer”.“When you come down to real governance judgements, you find that there is a difference between the political imagery that has been concocted and actually the governance record out there,” Jaishankar said.“I think you should take it for what it is, which is really politics at play. You can agree with it, you can disagree with it but I would certainly see that very much as part of a political effort to depict our current government in a certain way and obviously I have a very profound difference with that,” he added.In terms of a political answer, Jaishankar said, there was a “great reliance” on vote bank politics in the past, or appealing to voters on the basis of their identity or beliefs.“The fact that we have departed from it has been...a difference. India is a country of many faiths and faiths everywhere in the world are very closely tied to culture and identity. In our society, we define secularism as equal respect for all faiths. Secularism doesn’t mean that you are in denial of your own faith or anybody else’s faith,” he said.India is currently witnessing a “deepening of democracy, a much broader representation in politics and in leadership positions and in civil society of people who are much more confident about their culture, language and beliefs”, Jaishankar added.The minister said that “these are people who perhaps are less from the English-speaking world, less connected to other global centres”. He added, “So there is a difference. I think sometimes that difference is judged politically, harshly and it is often used to create a certain narrative.”In terms of a “larger societal explanation”, Jaishankar said that India is diverse in terms of ethnicity, language, and all other parameters and the current government is working for the benefit of all people, irrespective of their background.“We are going through a very stressful time right now because of the pandemic. We are actually giving free food – last year for multiple months, right now again because of the second wave – to as much as 800 million people. We put money into the bank accounts of 400 million people,” he said.“Now if you are feeding more than two-and-half times the population of the US and you’re funding more than the population of the US and you’re doing this pretty much anonymously and impersonally – in the sense [that] beyond the name and the detail and the bank account of the person – we’re not asking anything more, there’s no criteria of discrimination.”Indians, he added, have no doubts about the effectiveness of democracy.“We Indians are extremely confident about our democracy. We believe that that’s really the political system and the value system that suits us because...it captures our fundamental diversity and the culture of reasoning and coming to positions and an acceptance of what the rules of the day throw up,” he said.India has held multiple elections over the years and had peaceful transitions of power, he noted. The fact that elections have resulted in changes in the party in power at different levels is “proof that democracy is working”, he said.“I don’t think anybody in India would trade democracy for an alternative form of governance,” Jaishankar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/difference-between-concocted-imagery-of-govt-and-actual-governance-jaishankar-101622099417100.html
28-05-2021||NA||Covid-19 Highlights: Maharashtra to promote Class 10 students amid pandemic||Delhi's positivity rate dropped below 2% for the first time in 60 days. The national capital recorded 1,500 cases on Wednesday and 130 deaths. As the second wave shows signs of slowing down all over the country states are gearing up for vaccination to help avoid a possible third wave. Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal once again appealed to the Centre to ensure vaccine procurement and distribution happens at the earliest. Delhi has had to shut vaccination centres around the city due to the shortage of vaccination.India recorded a total of 2,40,842 new infections on Wednesday, taking the tally of cases to 2,71,57,795. The recovery rate now stands at 89.66 per cent. 4,157 daily new fatalities were also recorded in the last 24 hours, the death toll now stands at 3,11,388.Elsewhere, France has imposed a new travel restrictions on those travelling from the UK due to the spread of the double mutant Covid-variant there. This variant was first identified in India. Travellers from UK who are not French citizens will need to cite an "overwhelming reason" for travelling.Follow all the updates here:Maharashtra to promote Class 10 students amid Covid-19 pandemicMaharashtra government on Thursday decided to promote Class 10 students in the backdrop of Covid-19 pandemic. The state government decided to promote the students based on the evaluation of their performance in Class 9 and 10.The decision was taken in a meeting between the chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and school education minister Varsha Gaikwad in the evening.Bihar's death toll nears 5,000-mark with 98 new Covid-19 deathsBihar's death toll inched closer to 5,000-mark on Thursday after 98 fatalities from Covid-19 were reported in the last 24 hours. More than 2,500 new cases took the state tally to over 700,000, reported PTI.Pact signed between Bharat Biotech, Gujarat Covid Vaccine Consortium: Hester BiosciencesHester Biosciences on Thursday said a memorandum of understanding (MoU) has been signed between vaccine maker Bharat Biotech and Gujarat Covid Vaccine Consortium (GCVC) for contract manufacturing the drug substance for Covaxin.Covid-19 either emerged naturally or it was laboratory accident: US Intel communityThe Covid-19 virus either emerged naturally from human contact with infected animals or it was a laboratory accident, the US intelligence community said on Thursday.Chhattisgarh records 2,824 new Covid-19 cases, 69 deathsChhattisgarh on Thursday reported 2,824 Covid-19casesand 69 deaths, taking the infection count to 9,62,368 and death toll to 12,848, a health official said.Covid: Studies underway to ascertain need for booster vaccine dose, says CentreStudies are currently underway on whether there is a need for a Covid-19 booster dose, the Centre said on Thursday, and asserted that no vaccine can give 100 per cent protection from the virus.Punjab reports 3,914 new Covid-19 positive cases,Punjab reports 3,914 new Covid-19 positive cases, 5,995 recoveries, and 178 deaths in the last 24 hours.Total positive cases: 5,56,089Active cases: 48,231Goa has reported 1,504 new Covid-19 positive casesGoa has reported 1,504 new Covid-19 positive cases, 39 deaths, and 1,557 recoveries today.Active cases: 15,699Total positive cases: 1,52,401Haryana logs 2,322 new Covid-19 cases, tally goes past 750,000Haryana reports 2,322 new COVID-19 positive cases, 5,679 recoveries, and 98 deaths in the last 24 hours.Total positive cases: 7,50,062Active cases: 28,189 pic.twitter.com/8QTq2yK36wWith 2,322 new Covid-19 cases, Haryana's tally went past the 750,000-mark, reports ANI.Madhya Pradesh sees less than 2,000 new Covid-19 cases, 70 deaths in last 24 hours#COVID19 | Madhya Pradesh reports 1,977 new positive cases, 70 deaths, and 6,845 recoveries in the last 24 hours.Total positive cases: 7,73,855Active cases: 38,327 pic.twitter.com/LoLK4VbSegMadhya Pradesh reported 1,977 new Covid-19 cases and 98 deaths in the alst 24 hours, reports ANI.Maharashtra reports 21,273 new Covid-19 cases, Mumbai adds 1,258With 21,273 new Covid-19 cases and 425 deaths, Maharashtra's cases tally reached 5,672,180 and the death toll climbed to 92,225. Mumbai recorded 1,258 new cases and 36 deaths, pushing the city's tally to 701,598 and the death toll to 14,720.Tamil Nadu logs 33,361 new Covid-19 cases, 474 deathsTamil Nadu reported 33,361 new Covid-19 cases and 474 deaths in the day. Active caseload stands at 313,048, a bulletin from the state government showed.West Bengal reports 13,046 new Covid-19 cases, 148 deaths in last 24 hoursWest Bengal reports 13,046 new COVID cases, 19,121 discharges, and 148 deaths in the last 24 hours Active cases: 1,17,154Total discharges: 11,99,120Death toll: 14,975 pic.twitter.com/7pcA5h6m62With 13,046 new Covid-19 cases and 148 new deaths, West Bengal's cases tally reached 1,331,249 and death toll climbed to 14,975, reports ANI.Karnataka records 24,214 new cases, 476 deathsToday's Media Bulletin 27/05/2021Please click on the link below to view bulletin.https://t.co/KA0THipkPd @CMofKarnataka @BSYBJP @mla_sudhakar @drashwathcn @RAshokaBJP @BSBommai @CPBlr @PIBBengaluru @KarnatakaVarthe @PIBBengaluru @BBMPCOMM @BlrCityPolice @blrcitytraffic pic.twitter.com/1M48rniUisWith 24,214 new Covid-19 cases and 476 deaths Karnataka's tally reached 2,523,998 and death toll climbed to 27,405.Kerala to bear cost of education till degree-level of children who lost their parents to Covid-19One-time financial help of ₹3 lakhs will be given to the children who have lost their parents due to COVID19. ₹2000 per month will be given to these children till the 18 years of age. The state government will bear the cost of their education till degree-level: Kerala CMThe Kerala state government will bear the cost of education until degree-level of children who lost their parents to Covid-19, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said, reports ANI.Rajasthan reports 3,454 new Covid-19 cases, 85 deathsCOVID19 | Rajasthan reports 3,454 new cases, 85 deaths and 10,396 recoveries today; active cases 71,099 pic.twitter.com/ltwvzlvv5gRajasthan reported 3,454 new Covid-19 cases, 10,396 new recoveries and 85 deaths. Active caseload stands at 71,099, reports ANI.Kerala reports 24,166 new Covid-19 cases, 181 deaths in last 24 hours24,166 new cases and 181 deaths reported in Kerala in the last 24 hours. Active cases stand at 2,41,966: Kerala CM Pinarayi Vijayan on COVID19 situation in the State pic.twitter.com/L0xY8nNiClKerala recorded 24,166 new Covid-19 cases and 181 deaths in the alst 24 hours, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said, reports ANI.Andhra Pradesh reports 16,167 new Covid-19 cases, 104 deaths in last 24 hours16,167 new #COVID19 positive cases and 104 deaths reported in Andhra Pradesh on May 27.Total positive cases: 16,43,557Active cases: 1,86,782 pic.twitter.com/rlWaQkwo6nAndhra Pradesh reports 16,167 new Covid-19 cases and 104 deaths in the last 24 hours, reports ANI.Oxygen Express trains deliver highest single-day load of 1,195 tonnesOxygen Express trains delivered 1,195 tonnes of life-saving gas across India on May 26, their highest single-day load so far: OfficialsOxygen Express trains delivered their highest single-day load of 1,195 tonnes on Thursday, officials said, reports PTI.21 districts have more than 10% positivity rate, relaxations in districts where cases are declining: Rajesh TopeIt has been decided that all COVID19 restrictions will not be lifted as 21 districts have more than 10% positivity rate. Relaxations could be given in the districts where cases are declining, guidelines will be issued in a few days: Maharashtra Health Minister Rajesh Tope pic.twitter.com/x92pTQSHJiMaharashtra heath minister Rajesh Tope said that 21 districts are having more than 10 per cent positivity rate and relaxations can be given only in districts where the cases are declining, reports ANI.Delhi reports 1,072 new Covid-19 cases, 117 deaths in last 24 hoursDelhi reports 1072 new #COVID19 cases, 3725 recoveries and 117 deaths in the last 24 hours.Total cases 14,22,549Total recoveries 13,82,359Death toll 23,812Active cases 16,378Positivity rate 1.53 % pic.twitter.com/BXghvbLODXDelhi reported 1,072 new Covid-19 cases and 117 deaths in the last 24 hours. So far, 1,422,549 cases have been detected in the city and 23,812 people have lost their lives.Covid-19 curbs extended in West Bengal till June 15, says CM BanerjeeWest Bengal Govt extends statewide restrictions till June 15th to curb #COVID19 in the state: West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee pic.twitter.com/rdwGsEsrcaWest Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee announced that the statewide restrictions to curb Covid-19 has been extended till June 15, reports ANI.Nearly 1.1 million Covid-19 vaccine doses to be given to states in next 3 days: Centre#IndiaFightsCorona:📍Government of India has so far provided more than 22.16 crore vaccine doses to States/UTs Free of Cost(As on 27 May, 2021, 8:00 am)➡️Nearly 11 lakh doses, in addition, will be received by the states/UTs in the next 3 days#We4Vaccine #Unite2FightCorona pic.twitter.com/R5kTZ4t0PINearly 1.1 million Covid-19 vaccine doses will be given to states and Union territories in the next three days, the centre said.Dr VK Paul says we have to prepare to administer 10 million vaccines a dayWe'll have to prepare to give 1 cr doses in a day. It'll be possible in few weeks, we'll have to prepare. We made possible 43 lakh doses in a day. We should bring it up to 73 lakh in next 3 weeks. We should make a system to achieve it: Dr VK Paul, Member-Health, Niti Aayog,to ANI pic.twitter.com/YbOwBZ6Wm5Dr VK Paul said that the country should prepare to administer 10 million Covid-19 vaccines in a day. He also said that in three weeks, efforts should be made to deliver over seven million doses in a day, reports ANI.'States know our vaccine production capacity': Dr VK PaulStates know our vaccine production capacity. When they said they want flexibility & say in vaccine procurement, a new system was brought in-Centre will procure 50% of vaccines produced domestically, for states for free, for 45+ group: Dr VK Paul, Member-Health, Niti Aayog, to ANI pic.twitter.com/TM9amVe388Niti Aayog member Dr VK Paul said that the states know the vaccine production capacity and a new system to procure vaccines was brought in after the states demanded for flexibility, reports ANI.Six states have more than 100,000 active Covid-19 casesSix states, namely Karnataka, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Andhra Pradesh and West Bengal are having more than 100,000 active Covid-19 cases, the central government said.Defence Minister launches OPD portal for armed forces personnel, ex-servicemenDelhi: Defence Minister Rajnath Singh launches the ‘Services e-Health Assistance & Tele-consultation (SeHAT) OPD Portal via video conferencing. pic.twitter.com/rNfKOqL45hDefence Minister Rajnath Singh launched an online medical consultation service for the armed forces personnel and the veterans on Thursday, as the country goes through a brutal resurgent wave of Covid-19Migrant workers return to Delhi as Covid-19 second wave subsides in the capitalMigrant workers return to Delhi as the number of #COVID19 cases goes down here."I'm from Bihar. Cases have reduced so I've come back for my livelihood," says a worker, Raees "I saw in news that numbers are going down in Delhi, so I've come back," another worker Surender says. pic.twitter.com/QKunIKH3HKMigrant workers who had to leave Delhi during the peak of the second wave are slowly retuning to the capital as it subsides and cases go down, reported ANI.Zydus seeks DCGI nod for clinical trials of monoclonal antibodies cocktailZydus Cadila seeks Drugs Controller General of India's approval to undertake clinical trials for monoclonal antibodies cocktail that can neutralise Covid-19 infection in patients, reports ANI.India records 2,11,298 new cases of Covid-19, 3,847 deathsIndia recorded 2,11,298 new cases of Covid-19 on Thursday, pushing the tally of cases to 27,369,093. 3,847 deaths were also reported in the last 24 hours, the death toll now stands at 3,15,235.Andhra Pradesh receives 3,000 injections to treat black fungusAndhra Pradesh received 3,000 injections from the Union government to treat black fungus cases in the state, chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy said, adding that each patient should be administered 50 injections every week, and that an extra 2,000 injections will be sent soon, reported ANI.Pfizer holds talks with Union government on Covid-19 vaccinesDuring series of interactions, Pfizer informs Govt of India that its #COVID19 vaccine is suitable for all aged 12 & above, & can be storied at 2-8 degrees for over a month. They also discussed indemnity protection against liabilities before they bring vaccines to India: SourcesJoe Biden renews probe into Covid-19 originUS President Joe Biden has asked US Intelligence to conduct an investigation and submit report on whether Coronavirus was naturally transmitted from an animal to a human or was created in a lab at the Wuhan Institute of Virology, a theory that has been going around since the pandemic began over a year ago. The WHO team which investigated in Wuhan this year was not able to conclusively conclude where the virus originated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/live-coronavirus-india-world-latest-news-covid-19-death-toll-may-27-2021-101622080361148.html
28-05-2021||NA||Cyclone Yaas Highlights: Flight ops at Patna airport suspended till 9am tomorrow||The severe cyclonic storm, Yaas weakened into a deep depression, the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Thursday. It will continue to move northwestwards and weaken gradually into a depression during the next 12 hours, it also said in its bulletin on Twitter.At least nine were killed as the severe cyclone storm, Yaas battered the eastern coast on May 26. The storm packed lashing rain and winds gusting up to 155 kilometres (96 miles) an hour, the equivalent to a category two hurricane.In West Bengal, authorities said that around 1,100 villages had been flooded by storm surges, leaving at least 50,000 homeless, news agency Reuters reported.In the neighbouring Odisha, around 120 villages were swamped by heavy rain and sea water whipped up by the cyclone but people in most areas had already been moved to storm shelters.Cyclones are a regular menace in the northern Indian Ocean but many but over the last years the frequency of intense cyclones have increased. Scientists say it is because of climate change warming the waters of the Bay of Bengal and the Arabian Sea."As per the study, this increasing trend in intense cyclone frequency, can be related to climate change but analysis and studies (on this) are not sufficient," India Meteorological Department (IMD) Director General Dr Mrutyunjay Mohapatra said. He also said that every year, around five cyclones develop in the Arabian Sea and the Bay of Bengal.Follow all the updates here:Houses damaged, Aadhar missing in Bengal due to waterlogging caused by cycloneCyclone Yaas-induced waterlogging had major impact in parts of West Bengal. Gangarampur and Samay Basan villages in South Dinajpur district in West Bengal are facing several difficiluties with thier houses damaged, fileds submerged and documents like Aadhar and card and other valuables missing, reported ANI.Odisha issues high alert for 4 districts after increase in water levels of ﻿river BaitaraniFour districts in Odisha have been placed on high alert by the state government after water levels in the Baitarani river started increasing due to heavy rainfall triggered by the impact of Cyclone Yaas. Keonjhar, Jajpur, Kendrapara and Bhadrak districts have been ordered to take immediate measures as water levels of Baitarani are flowing above danger level at Anandapur and Akhuapada, special relief commissioner P K Jena said while speaking to reporters, according to news agency PTI. Flight ops at Patna airport further suspended till 9am tomorrowFlight operations at Patna airport have been further suspended till 9am tomorrow. Flight ops at Patna airport suspended till 10pm tonightFlight operations at Patna airport have been suspended till 10pm tonight in view of the bad weather conditions due to the impact of Cyclone Yaas, airport authorities told news agency ANI. Heavy rainfall witnessed in several districts of North Odisha, says IMDSeveral districts in the northern part of Odisha witnessed heavy rainfall triggered by the impact of Cyclone Yaas, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Thursday. Ensure restoration of normal life in affected areas at the earliest: PM Modi tells officials during review meetingA day before his visit to Odisha and West Bengal to review the impact of Cyclone Yaas, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday chaired a review meeting where he asked the central and state agencies to ensure that normal life is restored in affected areas at the earliest. According to a statement issued by the Prime Minister's Office (PMO), officials in the meeting including home secretary, secretary Power, telecom secretary and DG of India Meteorological Department (IMD), informed PM Modi about the preparedness, assessment of damage and other matters related to the cyclonic storm. Oxygen supply, steel production remain unaffected amid disruptions caused by Cyclone Yaas: CentreThe ministry of steel said on Thursday that supply of oxygen for Covid-19 patients and production of steel at steel plants remained unaffected in eastern states of the country despite the disruptions caused due to Cyclone Yaas. PM Modi to visit Odisha, Bengal on May 28 to review Cyclone Yaas impactPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday will visit Odisha and West Bengal to review the impact of Cyclone Yaas, according to news agency ANI on Thursday. He will hold review meetings in both states. Modi will first land in Bhubaneswar and will later undertake an aerial survey of affected areas of the state such as Balasore, Bhadrak. The Prime Minister will also undertake an aerial survey of the Purba Mednipur district in West Bengal.Shops, Houses damaged in West Bengal's DighaSeveral shops and houses in West Bengal's coastal town of Digha were damaged due to the after effects of Cyclone Yaas. "We have faced many cyclones earlier, but did not face such loss. This shop was the only source of income for my family," Shakti Pada Rana, a shopkeeper from Digha, told news agency ANI adding he lost materials worth ₹1 lakh to 1.5 lakhs. At least 800,000 affected in Jharkhand due to impact of Cyclone Yaas: ReportAt least 800,000 people in Jharkhand have been affected due to the impact of severe cyclonic storm Yaas, officials told news agency PTI on Thursday adding rescue operations are still on in some parts of the state. As many as 15,000 people have been evacuated from vulnerable areas and moved to safer places, the above officials said.Odisha CM undertakes aerial survey of cyclone-hit areasOdisha Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik on Thursday undertook an aerial survey of the affected areas to assess the damages caused by the calamity.201 relief camps set up in SinghbhumAs many as 201 relief camps have been set up and 596 people are evacuated in the West Singhbhum district of Jharkhand as part of relief efforts ahead of cyclone Yaas, informed Ananya Mittal, District Collector, West Singhbhum.Deep depression over south Jharkhand as cyclone moves northwestwardsDeep Depression over south Jharkhand and adjoining north interior Odisha moved northwestwards with about 07 kmph during past 6 hours and lay centred over south Jharkhand and neighbourhood, says IMD.It is very likely to move nearly northwards and weaken gradually into a Depression during the next 06 hours, the weather department also said.7 Navy teams begins relief operations in West BengalSeven Indian Navy teams from Visakhapatnam undertake relief operations in aftermath of impending Cyclone Yaas. The teams comprising 2 Diving and 5 Flood Relief Teams (FRT) are working at 3 separate locations-Digha, Fraserganj & Diamond Harbour in West Bengal, said Indian Navy in a statement on Thursday.Light to moderate rainfall with thunderstorms likely in Kolkata, east and west MidnaporeThunderstorm with lightning and light to moderate rainfall likely to affect parts of Kolkata, East and West Midnapore districts of West Bengal during next 1-2 hours from 0555 hours today: Regional Meteorological Centre.Severe cyclone storm 'Yaas' weakens into deep depression: IMDTHE CYCLONIC STORM ‘YAAS’ WEAKENED INTO A DEEP DEPRESSION AND LAY CENTRED AT 2330 HRS IST OF THE 26TH MAY OVER SOUTH JHARKHAND AND ADJOINING NORTH INTERIOR ODISHA. LIKELY TO MOVE NORTHWESTWARDS AND WEAKEN GRADUALLY INTO A DEPRESSION DURING NEXT 12HRS. pic.twitter.com/bVyybkJYaZ||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-yaas-live-tracking-west-bengal-odisha-may-27-2021-101622074038568.html
28-05-2021||Today's||In rural India, the government must walk the last mile||If the government wants to control the sharp surge in coronavirus cases, it has to ensure the collection and reporting of correct and usable data for rural India, transparently and with the help of epidemiologists. Until testing is done effectively across the country’s rural spread, we will not be able to ascertain the scope and extent of this virus’s devastation; more importantly, we will not be able to forecast scenarios and put in place or implement any workable strategy and plan.In Haryana, the state which I belong to, panchayats were dismantled in February 2021. In Uttar Pradesh (UP), the largest state in the country and the most populated, panchayat elections have just concluded; so the new panchayat members have not settled in fully. This absence or weakness on the last leg of governance is the reason for the poor, non-proactive response to the epidemic. This can be easily remedied by activating the gram sabhas, the panchayat sachivs, non-governmental organisations (NGOs) and block development officers to work in concert on testing and treatment.Also Read | Rural demand to remain muted due to Covid-19: Ind-RaThe government must engage with all kinds of rural community organisations, including non-profits working in these areas. Khaps in UP and Haryana should be engaged proactively. It is vital that rural communities be convinced about the need for Covid-appropriate protocols, and the need for testing and vaccinating. Hardly any testing happens in rural areas as most labs are in urban locations. It is not always feasible to send samples for RT-PCR tests from rural areas to urban centres. The logistics chain for the transfer of such samples does not exist.Hence, for rural areas, the government will have to shift to rapid antigen testing (RAT). This will reduce the time for testing and processing. More RAT kits will have to be procured; the manufacturing of such kits should be scaled up. In a country like India, these kits are the most crucial first line of defence. Until we know the extent of the problem, we won’t be able to commit the necessary resources or eradicate the scourge. This is not ideal, and it is not enough, for we know the RT-PCR tests are the gold standard — but we are facing a situation of no tests, and a positive result in rapid antigen tests will give a sense of the spread and catch at least a segment of cases early on.Rural areas need far more resources, especially as health care services there have been neglected for long. Doctors and nurses do not like to work in rural areas due to poor infrastructure, the absence of educational facilities, and several other reasons. We cannot force any professional to work in rural areas, so we need to offer incentives to attract them; district commissioners (DCs) or sub-divisional magistrates should be empowered to hire doctors or nurses for a year until this epidemic gets over or slows down appreciably. They should be paid higher salaries than offered by the private sector. This is particularly important for anaesthesiologists as they are a crucial cog in the epidemic treatment process. Anaesthesiologists are needed to operate a ventilator in an intensive care unit for a Covid patient. Ventilators are lying unused in several district-level hospitals as there are no anaesthesiologists.My experience as chief minister (CM) is that there has to be a clear line of communication with district magistrates (DMs) and DCs in any disaster, along with some freedom and flexibility for last-mile officers. Yet some CMs are monitoring the spread of Covid at the last mile. Even the Prime Minister is trying to talk to them directly. But talking or holding a Zoom call once in a while is not the way to handle an epidemic, especially at the state-level.The CM has to set up a system for monitoring, tracking and implementing at district-level in his own office. The epidemic will come under control only in states where there is a clear system connecting the CM to DM. For a huge state such as UP, Bihar or Madhya Pradesh, it is difficult for the CM to manage all the districts; the responsibility for such coordination should be given to another minister.Systemic weaknesses have been clearly exposed in the epidemic. The capability and governance gaps are visible to all; these can be criticised ad-nauseam but it does not serve any purpose in times of emergency. In these times, it is important to build solutions, bridge the gaps, and address the problem jointly. History will judge each and every one of us. History will ask us what we were doing during this epidemic. History will ask us whether we made the problem worse or came up with solutions, helped somebody, procured resources. The role of political leaders, whether in power or in Opposition, is crucial. Real leaders should be in their constituencies, working with and for the people. If they are not with the people now, they cannot be called political leaders. If they are sitting at home, they are not leaders. Leaders lead from the front; in this war on Covid, the front is where the people are sick or need our help the most.There’s no point in being a political leader only on social media. Much of rural India is not on social media. They cannot ask for help on social media via some App. Keep your phone lines open, deploy your party workers on the helplines, and on the ground for resource distribution. I know some areas that have barred politicians from coming into the villages. This is a sign that the overt dereliction of duty by political leaders has not been lost on their constituents.A post-Covid world is a long way away; the falling numbers in our cities should not fool the Union government into believing that the epidemic is over. The virus is shifting regions, striking villages, small towns and other cities. The district in-charge needs to start separating the data for the big cities, small cities, towns and villages. But this will only happen if all levels of governance rebuild transparency and faith in the data.This epidemic has to be fought together. Only if we rise above petty gains will we be able to defeat this invisible and deadly enemy that is attacking our fundamental right to a healthy life.Bhupinder Singh Hooda is a former chief minister of HaryanaThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/in-rural-india-the-government-must-walk-the-last-mile-101622197153291.html
28-05-2021||Today's||From the holy river, a story of human tragedy and State callousness||This week, I took a three-hour boat ride down the Ganga, traversing a little over 30 kilometres from the Mehndi Ghat in Kannauj to the Nanamau Ghat in Kanpur Dehat, in pursuit of understanding why dead bodies are piling up on our river banks in Uttar Pradesh (UP) and Bihar and why corpses are floating in the river.Most recently, over a 12-day trip through rural UP, I personally counted more than 1,000 bodies at six different points, spread over a few thousand kilometres from the east to the west of the state.The presence of many graves, and the fact that those who have died during the Covid-19 surge are being abandoned and dumped either because of lack of money for cremations or the continued fear and stigma around the pandemic, is horrifying. But what is even more horrifying is the Indian State’s callous refusal to acknowledge this truth.On the issue of these graves by the river banks in UP, we have seen one of three responses from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and its supporters. One, there is absolute denial and a tendency to look the other way, while patting UP on the back for what is patently questionable death data. Second, there is attack on the handful among us who are on the field, in extremely trying physical circumstances, with abuse and threats. And finally, it is claimed that this is an old practice among some communities to bury the dead instead of cremating them and so to link it to Covid-19 is false.Also Read | Farm sector unscathed by 2nd Covid waveIt is this last claim that I will counter by drawing attention to scores of local testimonies recorded on camera.Subhash, a boatman, helped us navigate our way through the water, past stray animals that hovered about corpses and past pyres that were being lit by the banks even in the smallest villages. He told us that the carnage, at its peak, was so bad that he shut down his boats and ran away for a few days. “I have been working for 30 years and I have never seen so many bodies in my life. Mujhe ghabrahat ho gayi (I panicked).”Mayank, a young boy who helps with entries at the Mehndi Ghat cremation ground, said he had counted 1,500 bodies in all at the one single ghat he looks after in recent weeks. “I have worked here for eight years and I have never seen anything like this,” he told me.In Kanpur, where the bodies lie stacked up in ravines so sandy and rocky that our car would not go down and we could only access the spot by motorcycle, local residents said people would come in the cover of the night, when no one was looking, and abandon the bodies and hastily make their way home.At Prayagraj, as the police watched, the Ramnaami chadars were ordered off the makeshift graves — the ultimate indignity. A local pandit walked me through the banks and asked the fundamental question: “Will our Covid dead ever be counted, will we ever know how many people have died from Covid?”Also Read | In a crematorium, a silent Hindu-Muslim bond Theoretically, without exhumation and testing, we cannot unequivocally prove that all of the deaths are from Covid. But the fact that these bodies have piled up at multiple points within the last four to six weeks, the exact period of the second wave, is telling. Especially when you couple it with what’s happening in our villages, where there is hardly any Covid testing and most people are dying in their homes without reaching hospital.At cremation sites, in cases where families had accompanied the bodies for the last rites, villagers testified to a surge of deaths in their hamlets. There was a common refrain. “Every day, four or five bodies leave for the funeral grounds.” This account of a sudden surge in deaths in rural India was true for villages all the way from the east in Varanasi to the west in Basi Gaon, two hours from Delhi.Yes, locals have explained to us that children and young brides have always been buried and never cremated. But none of these customs explain the volume of the bodies all along the Ganga. Even in the Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s constituency of Varanasi, in Sujabad, seven bodies had to be buried by locals as they washed ashore. And at the farthest point in Unnao, by the river’s open fields, where there is hardly anyone to be seen, a young cowherd told me that over the past two weeks, 20 bodies had washed ashore or been left in the sand.Angry denials, obfuscation, calling those covering the issue vultures, none of this addresses what’s staring us in the face — the under-reporting of Covid-19 deaths and the stubborn refusal to even count the bodies. India’s citizens deserve better, in life and yes, in death.Barkha Dutt is an award-winning journalist and authorThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/from-the-holy-river-a-story-of-human-tragedy-and-state-callousness-101622195291922.html
28-05-2021||Today's||The regressive mindset behind the Tarun Tejpal judgment||When the trial of Tarun Tejpal finally began six years after a junior colleague accused him of sexual crimes, including rape, questions put to the woman were so incendiary that she had to ask the Bombay High Court to restrain Tejpal’s lawyers from asking irrelevant and — following the 2013 rape law amendment — illegal questions.Despite that, many of those questions, and replies, are now on public record thanks to a 527-page judgment by Kshama Joshi, the additional sessions judge at Mapusa who acquitted Tejpal of all charges.With its unrelenting focus on the complainant, the judgment tells you less about the sexual crimes Tejpal was accused of and more about his accuser, including her name, email address and identity of her parents and husband (the Bombay High Court has ordered a redaction).We know now her attitude to smoking, drinking and consensual sex; that she had consulted two senior women advocates; had written an article on compensation for rape survivors; is educated, intelligent and aware of the country’s rape laws — though in what way this impacts the credibility of her complaint is not clear.Also Read | ‘No template of apt behaviour after assault’: Experts on Tarun Tejpal verdictWhat she wore when she says Tejpal first assaulted her (chiffon floor-length green and black dress with lining that ended above her knees and thong underwear); her purported sexual history; and conversations with friends, sometimes of a sexual nature, are there in graphic, lurid detail.The law assures rape survivors that their past sexual history is irrelevant. And yet, since the 1977 Mathura verdict, judges continue to shame women who speak up. In March this year, advocate Aparna Bhat moved the Supreme Court to expunge a lower court order that asked a rape survivor to tie a rakhi on her rapist. Justice Ravinder Bhat went a step further and asked the judges to also undergo gender sensitisation training.The Tejpal judgment could have stopped with an acquittal on reasonable doubt due to lack of police evidence. Instead, there are insinuations about the woman’s credibility, including the fact that she admittedly had no physical injuries after the assault. It finds “glaring contradictions”, for instance, in her email complaint to Tehelka managing editor Shoma Chaudhury where she mentions “picking up” her panties while her police statement records that she “pulled” them up. Really?This level of scrutiny seems to be missing from an examination of Tejpal’s defence. It buys into his argument that he apologised, twice, under pressure from the woman who promptly went public once he had — though how she would gain from such disclosure is unclear. It doesn’t question whether the “drunken banter”, claimed by Tejpal, could really be consensual given that he was her boss and 30 years older. And, if it was “banter”, why was he so furious that the woman had told his daughter about it?Ultimately, the Tarun Tejpal verdict is not so much on a man’s alleged crime as it is on his accuser’s behaviour, conduct and beliefs. It tells you why women remain reluctant to speak up.Namita Bhandare writes on genderThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-regressive-mindset-behind-the-tejpal-judgment-101622191811755.html
28-05-2021||Today's||Wuhan Institute of Virology's role in pandemic is first step to make China accountable||In fifty-six days, the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) will celebrate 100 years of its existence. In its time, the party has held a political monopoly over the lives of 1.6 billion people and has pushed China to a global power that today rivals the clout of the US in terms of money and military. The CCP on its part has expanded its wings all over the world through frontal organizations such as the United Front Works Department and has managed to penetrate countries of interest through pelf and power.While paramount leader Xi Jinping will extol the virtues of the CCP during the centenary celebrations and project himself as a natural successor to the party’s founding father Mao Zedong, China as a country, is at a crossroads today. The US President has tasked his national intelligence to submit a report within 90 days on whether the origin of the SARS-Cov-2 virus was zoonotic (transfer from animals to humans) or a laboratory accident at the Wuhan Institute of Virology. We are told that the US President will make the intelligence assessment public unless extraordinary circumstances prevent him from doing so. The global scientific community has conjured up tedious arguments to back both hypotheses, but there is enough circumstantial evidence to suggest that the origins of the global pandemic lie in Wuhan with all its secrets either destroyed or buried deep within the virology institute. After the global pandemic has already snuffed out 3.5 million lives, infected 1.6 billion people and destroyed economic livelihoods of far higher numbers, it would be very naïve to assume that China will either allow access to the Wuhan laboratory or provide samples of Patient Zero. Perhaps what will happen will be to the contrary with the Chinese getting more aggressive in their attitude towards their enemies and more demanding of their client states. Given the evidence that points to the involvement of some elements from the US scientific community in promoting the research at WIV, the truth about the origin of the virus from Wuhan will never be found as it will be too inconvenient for G-2 to handle.Consequently, the role of WHO under Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus in wittingly or unwittingly delaying the announcement of a global pandemic will also be remembered by history with a large question mark. Backed by the Africa group, Mr Ghebreyesus will perhaps be elected WHO DG again next May and Beijing will prepare for the XXIV Winter Olympics. But all this will come at a price for China as the country is definitely seen as a kind of Darth Vader by the democratic world due to its aggression towards its adversaries whether it be trade wars with Australia, or its combative approach in the South China Sea and Taiwan with the US, Senkaku Islands with Japan or LAC with India. Everyone knows that talk of the Indo-Pacific and globally resilient supply chains are euphemisms for that which shall not be named.Also Read: China, US clash again on Covid origin, Indo-PacificThe rise of QUAD to counter the Chinese challenge has ensured that Indo-Pacific now finds resonance in Europe, which had handed over the keys of its diplomacy to large corporates trading with China. The EU’s freezing of the Comprehensive Agreement on Investment with China is reflective of the unease within Europe to the big money trade by Germany under Angela Merkel and to some extent France.Given the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) effort to unilaterally change the status quo along the 1597 km long Ladakh LAC in May 2020, India under Prime Minister Narendra Modi will not back down till such time as China restores April 2020 status quo ante on the LAC. While India is awaiting dates from China for the next round of WMCC and the 12th round of military talks on Gogra-Hot Springs disengagement, this may not happen soon — or else PLA will have nothing to show at centenary celebrations of its 2020 aggression. The rapid upgrade of military infrastructure in the hinterland in Tibet and Xinjiang are all a part of an effort to make Fortress China impregnable.If the international community led by the US does not make China accountable for the virus, the next PLA target will be Taiwan, after which the PLA’s nuclear submarines will be free to patrol the Indo-Pacific and virtually impose toll on international ships crossing the South China Sea. The question here is what will trigger a push-back by the democratic world? Virus, Taiwan or Indo-Pacific?The first signs of push-back to China will be dependent on the outcome of the summit between President Biden and Russian President Vladimir Putin scheduled on June 16 in Geneva. If the two erstwhile Cold war rivals agree to bring China under the strategic arms control regime, then at least the daily threats of CCP’s propaganda machine on the use of ballistic missiles like DF-21 and 26 on adversaries will stop. Normalization of the relationship between the US and Russia will also pave the way for making China accountable for the spread of the virus in an unsuspecting world.While the QUAD summit is also expected this fall, the grouping must go from being a security talk shop to creating an alternative global supply chain that is not dependent on one country only. For India, this is not only an opportunity but also a challenge. Irrespective of whether the global matrix is a triangle, quadrilateral or a pentagon, it will be at the centre of it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/wuhan-institute-of-virology-s-role-in-pandemic-is-first-step-to-make-china-accountable-101622179188333.html
28-05-2021||Editorials||HT Editorial: The Olympics dilemma||There is perhaps no safe way of conducting the Tokyo Olympic and Paralympic Games, slated to begin on July 23. In fact, there is a clear possibility of the Games becoming a “superspreader” event. The International Olympic Committee (IOC) has, however, turned a deaf year to calls for cancelling the Games and gone on the offensive — with its longest serving member, Dick Pound, recently saying that cancelling the event was “essentially off the table”.But the pandemic is not bothered with chest-thumping leadership or sweeping bravado. Do anything without the backing of cold scientific evidence, and you are inviting the Sars-CoV-2 virus to your doorstep. And if that thing involves over 30,000 people (athletes, coaches, contingent staff, broadcast staff, and administrators) from 200 different countries descending in one city, without quarantine rules or bio bubbles, and with varying vaccination status, the risk levels are staggering. No wonder the chorus against the Games being held has grown louder. A poll in Japan found that 70% of people wanted the Games to be cancelled or deferred.Also Read | Tokyo Olympics looking more and more like fan-free eventWhen the Games organisers, who would need an estimated 10,000 medical workers for the event, recently requested for an additional 500 nurses, the Japan Federation of Medical Workers’ Union said it was “infuriated” with the insistence to hold the Games. In May alone, the largest organisation of doctors in Tokyo asked that the Olympics be stopped; a British Medical Journal editorial said that going ahead with the Games would be “ignoring scientific and moral imperatives”; and an article in the New England Journal of Medicine exposed the staggering loopholes in the Covid-19 management system being put in place by the IOC (for example, antigen tests instead of RT-PCR, vaccinations not mandatory).But it is hard to cancel the Olympics. For one, it means ruthlessly ending the dreams of thousands of athletes who have worked for years and years for their moment of glory. The modern Olympics have only been cancelled thrice in its history, all three times because of the two World Wars. The other reason is money. Japan has officially spent $15.4 billion to organise the Olympics, although government audits say it may be much higher. IOC also stands to generate an estimated $2-3 billion from TV rights. And if cancelled, insurers are facing a $2-3 billion loss. It is a toss-up between history and money on one side, and science and safety on the other. Choose wisely.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/ht-editorial-the-olympics-dilemma-101622204482310.html
28-05-2021||Editorials||In Chhattisgarh, lessons for the State||Since May 7, residents of Chhattisgarh’s Sukma and Biijapur districts have been protesting against a security camp that was set up at Silger, a “core Maoist area”. The camp was set up without taking the village councils into confidence, even though both districts are Fifth Schedule areas (listed separately in the Constitution in terms of administration on account of the primary population being Scheduled Tribes). On May 17, the police opened fire when over “3,000 tribals” approached the camp and attacked them, according to a police statement; three villagers died. The Sukma district collector ordered a magisterial inquiry on May 23. The next day, protesters filed a formal complaint against the security forces. While the police have declared the deceased to be affiliated with Maoists, their families have denied the charge. No security personnel were injured in the incident.While expanding State presence through security camps appears logical and right, there is a local context which explains the opposition. For one, large tracts of rich forests are cleared to build camps. Two, tribals are wary of harassment (searches, beatings, sexual assaults, fabricated cases, and fake encounters) that comes with an enhanced security presence. When such incidents take place, the response of the State, in most cases, is insensitive. Without any proper investigation, protesters are declared Maoist sympathisers. And this ends up helping the Maoists in their propaganda.The Bhupesh Baghel-led government lost an opportunity to bridge the trust deficit with tribals. But it must ensure an independent investigation and justice if it wants to heal the wounds of Silger.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/in-chhattisgarh-lessons-for-the-state-101622122439254.html
28-05-2021||Editorials||GST regime is in crisis||The Goods and Services Tax (GST) Council will meet on May 28 after a gap of seven months. That it is meeting after such a long gap itself is unwarranted. Many state governments, which are ruled by parties opposed to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), have demanded a GST waiver on various kinds of medicinal supplies being used for treating Covid-19. Such demands make for good optics. While finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had earlier explained why a GST waiver could not help in bringing down prices of some of these goods, there could still be a compromise on the issue. The underlying spirit should be to reduce the fiscal burden on states. They have done most of the heavy lifting during the pandemic.However, there is a larger point which the GST Council must ponder. Using GST Council meetings to tweak GST rates on various commodities – Gujarati snacks before the 2017 Gujarat assembly elections and Covid-19 supplies now – would have been fine if the larger macroeconomic situation were favourable. That is hardly the case right now. The second wave of Covid-19 infections has forced lockdowns in most parts of the country and derailed the incipient economic recovery. This is bound to generate headwinds for revenue collections. Because GST constitutes a much bigger share of state government revenues than that of the Centre, states are likely to be worse hit. This will only worsen the compensation burden on the Centre.Back in 2017, it took a promise of 14% guaranteed growth in state revenues to get the states to forego their fiscal sovereignty and endorse GST. The Indian economy started losing momentum after GST’s roll-out. In hindsight, the Centre’s promise to the states seems to have erred on the side of overoptimism. The pandemic’s disruption has only made matters worse. The Centre’s convoluted approach to the compensation issue – it first created a distinction between revenue lost to the pandemic and otherwise and then on the question of borrowing to meet the compensation shortfall – has not helped matters. While political compulsions might have forced the government to paint an overoptimistic picture of the economy, the truth is that even the Centre’s revenue collections have been hit. The GST Council needs to understand that the tax regime, with its earlier commitments and the given economic situation, is increasingly becoming unsustainable. Any attempt to save the situation must begin with an honest appraisal of the state of the macroeconomy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/gst-regime-is-in-crisis-101622122079213.html
