31-05-2021||News||Covid-19: Should India start opening up?||The second wave of Covid-19 infections in India is slowing down. The seven-day moving average of daily cases peaked on May 9, 2021. On May 27, this number was 56% of the peak of 392,000 cases. To be sure, the daily caseload is still much higher than what it was even at the peak of the first wave. This number was 93,617 on September 16, 2020, which is when the first wave peaked. India is also leading the pack as far as international caseload is concerned.This brings up an important policy dilemma? Should governments start easing lockdown restrictions? Lockdowns inflict a huge collateral damage on the economic front. An Azim Premji University Study released earlier this month has estimated that a 10% decline in mobility was associated with a 7.5% decline in income. There are no easy answers to the opening up question. Sajjid Chinoy, chief India economist at JP Morgan, has argued that scars of the second wave could manifest themselves in policymakers becoming more conservative on restrictions.Also Read | In rural India, the government must walk the last mileA recap of India’s trajectory of lockdowns and Covid-19 infections might throw some light on the issue.First lockdown perhaps postponed the Covid-19 infection curve India detected its first confirmed case of Covid-19 on January 30, 2020. The World Health Organisation (WHO) declared Covid-19 as a pandemic on March 11, 2020. The government of India imposed a nation-wide lockdown, among the most stringent in the world, from March 25, 2020. The lockdown was the most severe in the first two months. Both stringency Index from Oxford University and Google Mobility Indices corroborate this.But it did control infections. The infection curve started rising along with mobility and peaked in mid-September. Even though infections were rising, there was no re-imposition of restrictions. Daily cases started falling from September onwards and mobility kept on increasing. This was true until February 2021. Then there was a sharp spike in cases.Higher mobility levels might have acted as a catalyst for the second wave The first wave of Covid-19 infections in India reached its trough on February 11. The seven-day average of daily cases was 10,988 on that date. The second wave reached its peak 87 days later. Daily cases increased by a multiple of 36 during this period. The first wave did not have such intensity. Daily cases increased by a multiple of just seven times from 87 days before the peak – the time it took for the second wave to begin and peak – to the day of the peak.What explains the sharp spike in the daily infection curve during the second wave? Mutation of the virus could have played a role. People could have given up on practices such as use of masks and social distancing. But mobility is also likely to have played a big role. Mobility levels were much higher in the months of March and April than they were a couple of months before the peak of the first wave. So even if all things were the same – no mutation or letdown in use of masks etc. – the chances of infection spreading far and wide were significantly higher during the second wave.The role of long-distance travel is especially important. Mobility at transit stations was significantly below overall mobility levels before the peak of the first wave due to restrictions on use of public transport. That was not the case during the second wave. This is one of the important reasons why the pandemic has proliferated to rural areas this time.Headline case and mobility numbers vary across states A state-wise analysis of daily cases and mobility levels shows that a decentralised approach might work better. The second wave (fourth wave in Delhi) reached its peak in Delhi on April 23, 2021 with a seven-day average of 25,294 daily cases. The number was just 1,800 on May 27, 2021. Mobility levels have not changed much. The seven-day average of Google Mobility Index was 52.5 on 23 April (peak of second wave) and it is 49.9 right now, which is lower than what it was at the peak of each of the past four waves in the city-state.In other states, the second wave has not flattened to the extent seen in Delhi. For example, the seven-day average of daily cases is yet to sufficiently decline in major states like West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, and Assam to declare that the second wave has peaked in these states.Also Read | From the holy river, a story of human tragedy and State callousnessThen there are testing issues. Delhi conducted an average of 68,067 tests in the week ending May 27, which means a testing rate of 3,309 per million people, according to projected population for March 2021. This number was just 636 per million in Rajasthan and 685 per million in West Bengal. To be sure, ranking high on tests per million alone isn’t sufficient. Kerala, for instance, has tested even more than Delhi in the past week – 3,553 per million – but the average positivity rate there was 21% compared to 3% in Delhi. This means that not enough people with infection are getting tested, so they can be isolated and stopped from spreading the infection.What is to be done, now? Easing of restrictions did not lead to a reversal in falling trend of Covid-19 cases after September 2020 until the second wave in March 2021. Can this be taken for granted? Everybody is being cautious. The central government advised states on Thursday to continue with restrictions on movement imposed to curb Covid-19.Vaccination is yet to reach a critical mass. Just a little over 3% people have received both doses so far. The majority of those vaccinated are in the 60 years and above cohort, who are not very likely to venture out in any case. On May 28, Union minister Prakash Jadavekar said that India will vaccinate its entire adult population by December 2021. The best case scenario will be a synchronised opening up along with a concrete plan of vaccinations, if there is one, at the moment.Experts say easing restrictions depends on the administration’s ability to prevent infections when people move. “It all depends on the ability of the administration to keep people from infecting each other: to what extent people are masking up, to what extent they maintain social distance, and in this period, how many people are being vaccinated,” said Dr Lalit Kant, former head of the department of epidemiology at the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). “Closed places, where people would get together, sing, speak loudly – now we understand that it (the infection) can spread through aerosols — we need to be very careful,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/covid19should-india-start-opening-up-101622441027859.html
31-05-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad administration moots voluntary ‘village solidarity scheme’||Ghaziabad: The Ghaziabad district magistrate on Monday launched an initiative titled the “village solidarity scheme” in which the winning candidate (gram pradhans), and the runner up in the recently concluded panchayat elections, will work in coordination for the all-round development of their respective villages. “The idea behind the initiative is to bring them together as both have their respective support base in villages and if they work together through a platform, it will be highly beneficial for the development of their village. We have initiated this scheme while keeping in mind development activities in villages,” district magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey, said. Panchayat polls are closely contested elections and different groups contest it bitterly, while the results can also lead to differences between them. In this context, the district magistrate held a virtual meeting on May 28 with the newly elected gram pradhans and the runners up. Another meeting was held on Monday at the district headquarters. “There were discussions, and several decisions were taken amicably. It was decided that both persons will give a sankalp patra (pledge letter) that they will work together, and the village will be called Gram Sadbhawna village. The winning gram pradhan will be named as kushal pradhan (welfare chief) while the runner up will be called vikas salahakar (development consultant) who will be called in for all meetings of the gram sabhas/panchayats and their suggestions will be noted down,” Pandey said in a press statement Monday.The statement also detailed certain incentives.“The block officials will provide both these persons visiting cards. The pradhans will get priority in case they wish to meet officials. The gram sadbhawna will have a different coloured letterhead and their applications will be expedited by departments. The application on the letterhead will be valid only when both the persons present their signatures jointly,” the statement said further. It added that the initiative will be voluntary in nature and will be implemented if both the winning and the runner-up candidates agree to it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-administration-moots-voluntary-village-solidarity-scheme-101622484470648.html
31-05-2021||Noida||Noida forest dept bats for scientific transplantation of trees, writes to authority||Noida: After several grown trees were felled in the city, the divisional forest department of Gautam Budh Nagar has written to the Noida authority asking them not to chop trees and rather transplant them.Pointing out that the pollution levels of the city are usually high, the forest department said that the authority must use scientific methods to transplant the trees so that they may live. A number of trees have been allowed to be chopped down for different ongoing development projects in the city.“Use scientific methods to transplant the trees to save them from dying. Also, try to transplant as many trees as possible, even those that are permitted to be felled, so that the maximum number of trees could be saved,” read the letter sent Monday to the authority‘s horticulture department.The letter came in light of opposition from environmentalists after a number of grown neem trees were felled at Parthala Chowk for development of a flyover on Sunday. According to the forest department, while 217 trees have been permitted to be felled for developmental works in the district, at least 1,816 trees are proposed to be shifted or transplanted elsewhere. Officials said that while the authority does transplant trees, they don’t do it scientifically or through an expert agency, due to which several trees die.“They usually dig the trees through JCB machines, which cut the roots and reduce the survival chances of a tree, while scientific methods consider a lot of aspects. There are machines that can do the job successfully. We have thus written to them to ensure proper transplantation,” said Pramod Kumar Srivastava, divisional forest officer, Gautam Budh Nagar.Meanwhile, the Noida authority said that it will look into the matter, adding that the felling of trees at Parthala Chowk had been stopped.“We have stopped the felling of trees at Parthala Chowk and will soon talk to the director of the horticulture department regarding scientific transplantation. So far this year, we have not transplanted any tree,” said Mahendra Prakash, deputy director of the horticulture department of the authority.According to a city-based environmentalist, hundreds of trees are felled every year and those transplanted are not done properly.“There are three major projects going on in the city. Hundreds of trees have either been felled or will be axed to complete these projects. Our question is – why do we chop fully grown trees that take years to contribute to the green cover, when we can transplant all of them. Besides, most of the trees that the authority transplants do not survive. A few years back, we had asked the authority via an RTI if they have a separate budget to transplant trees through an expert agency, and they didn’t,” said Vikrant Tongad, city based environmentalist.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-forest-dept-bats-for-scientific-transplantation-of-trees-writes-to-authority-101622484470050.html
31-05-2021||Noida||Over 4K health-care workers still to get their first dose in GB Nagar||NOIDA: As many as 4,469 health-care workers (HCWs) out of the 29,630 in Gautam Budh Nagar, who were registered for the inaugural phase of vaccination against Covid-19 in January this year, are yet to take their first jab. Not only that, among 25,161 HCWs who had taken their first shot, as many as 9,648 have yet not turned up for their second dose. District chief medical officer, Dr Deepak Ohri, said that despite repeated appeals, many of the HCWs didn’t turn up for their vaccination.“The HCWs include doctors, nurses, paramedics, technical staff and sanitary workers. As per the dough out survey (the left our survey in vaccination records) conducted by the district health department, it has been found that the maximum number of absentees among them are from the nursing category. Either they have shifted elsewhere or have left their vocation. However, we have started intimating all hospitals in the district to provide the updated details of these absentees. Most of them were associated with private hospitals, medical colleges and nursing training schools,” he said.He further said that only 15,513 HCWs have taken both doses so far – about 52% of 29,630 of total registered HCWs. “The rate of taking the first dose was much higher as over 85% HCWs had taken their maiden jab. This dilly-dallying approach has really irked the health department officials,” he said.Explaining the reason behind this low percentage of vaccination among HCWs, Ajit Kumar, the director (public relations) of Sharda hospital, said that most HCWs were sceptical about the accuracy and efficacy of the vaccines during the initial phases of the inoculation drive. “Even doctors and paramedics were not very enthusiastic about getting the jabs. But, their minds seem changed after the higher mortality rate seen during the second wave of Covid. Now the problem is that the government is not giving free vaccines to private hospitals and the HCWs of our hospital do not want to venture out in public places to get the jabs. As a result, they are taking paid vaccines in hospitals now,” he said.District immunisation officer, Dr Neeraj Tyagi, said that so far 5,78,969 people have been administered doses in the district. “While 4,79,296 have taken the first shot, 99,673 have received both the doses,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/over-4k-health-care-workers-still-to-get-their-first-dose-in-gb-nagar-101622484469443.html
31-05-2021||Noida||Man booked for cheating Noida resident on pretext of oxygen cylinder||Noida: Police on Sunday registered a case against a man for allegedly duping a Noida resident of ₹31,800 on the pretext of providing a oxygen cylinder. The suspect is a resident of Delhi, the police said.The complainant, Devendra Kumar Mehra (51), said that a few days ago he, his wife, son and daughter had tested positive for Covid-19 and they were in home isolation.“My 26-year-old son’s oxygen saturation level was falling and we needed an oxygen cylinder. We got the suspect’s contact number through a friend, who had picked up the number from a WhatsApp group. He had identified himself as a gas supplier from Delhi and he assured us to provide the oxygen cylinder in one hour,” said Mehra, resident of a high-rise in Sector 128. The suspect demanded ₹16,500 online payment for a 47-litre cylinder. “We transferred the money to the given bank account. However, soon the suspect said that the 47-litre cylinder was out of stock and he would provide a 80-litre cylinder. The suspect again demanded ₹15,300,” he said.According to police, Mehra transferred the money to the suspect’s account but he did not deliver the cylinder. Later, the suspect switched off his mobile phone and went incommunicado, police said. Mehra then filed a complaint with the cyber cell which investigated the matter and directed the Expressway police to register a case.Yatendra Kumar, station house officer, Expressway police station, said that a case has been registered against the suspect under Section 420 (cheating) of IPC and Section 63 of the IT Act. “Primary investigation shows the suspect cheated the Noida resident on the pretext of an oxygen cylinder. It appears he has cheated some more people. We have traced the suspect’s bank account and soon we will arrest him,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/man-booked-for-cheating-noida-resident-on-pretext-of-oxygen-cylinder-101622484410970.html
31-05-2021||Noida||GB Nagar admin starts vaccination camps in rural areas||Noida: In order to ensure easy access to Covid-19 vaccination in rural areas of the district, the Gautam Budh Nagar administration on Monday held inoculation camps in six villages for people aged 45 years and above. The beneficiaries were registered on Co-WIN app and vaccinated on the spot, officials said.The drive was held in Khatana and Dabara in Dadri sub-division, Miyana and Mirzapur in Dankaur sub-division and Thora and Bhaipur in Jewar sub-division. A total of 572 people were vaccinated across the villages on the first day, the officials said.“The camp has been held so that none of the people in 45+ age group are left without the first dose of vaccine. We found that many people in this age group had already got their first dose. Registration of people living in rural areas is already underway at the common service centres in the villages,” said Prasun Dwivedi, sub-divisional magistrate (Sadar), GB Nagar.The officials said more such vaccination camps will be organised in rural areas in the coming days to prevent the spread of coronavirus infection.“Going forward, we will continue to hold the vaccination camps in more villages where people can be registered on the spot and get vaccinated there itself. This initiative has been taken because some people’s representatives informed us that the rural population finds it difficult to book slots online,” said Dr Neeraj Tyagi, district immunisation officer, GB Nagar.Dhirendra Singh, member of legislative assembly from Jewar constituency, said that many residents of the villages had complained that they could not find any empty slots on Co-WIN and hence were unable to get registered.“These complaints were from the younger people, while most of the older population does not even have a smartphone. So, an initiative to bring vaccination camps to the rural population is much needed,” said Singh.On Monday, a total of 10,418 people were vaccinated in the district, of which 7,303 were from 18-45 age group, the officials said.Vaccination camp in GhaziabadMeanwhile, in neighbouring Ghaziabad district, a vaccination camp will be organised at the ART (Anti Retroviral Therapy) Centre in the MMG District Hospital for people living with HIV, transgenders and intravenous drug users aged above 45 years from June 2 to 5.“We have identified 690 people above the age of 45 years who will be covered under the vaccination campaign. Of these, 598 are persons living with HIV, 52 are intravenous drug users and 40 are transgenders. Some NGOs helped us collate the data,” said Dr Sheel Varma, medical officer at ART centre, MMG District Hospital, Ghaziabad. The vaccination drive will be carried out from 10am to 2pm and Covishield will be administered there.“These groups of people usually live in secrecy and experience stigma because of which they may get left out for vaccination. Hence, with the help of the district administration and the NGOs working with these groups, the vaccination drive will help break the chain of Covid-19 infection,” said Varma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/gb-nagar-admin-starts-vaccination-camps-in-rural-areas-101622484409566.html
31-05-2021||Noida||Online service to provide medical care to Covid patients||Gautam Budh Nagar residents can now get medical aid for Covid and non-Covid patients at their door step through a mobile app called “Upchar”.Jewar MLA Dhirendra Singh, the Yamuna Expressway industrial development authority, Gautam Budh Nagar district administration and police on Monday launched the application developed by a Nashik-based private company. This application will enable patients to seek medical advice from doctors, including from the Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS).“We have also roped in volunteers who will help patients get connected to the best doctors, get prescription and easy treatment in need particularly rural areas,” said Jewar MLA Dhirendra Singh.The application has sections such as Covid or non-Covid, Asthma, malaria, skin problem, paediatric and orthopaedic among others.“The app will guide a patient to an expert for quick medical aid and generate prescription,” said Suhas LY district magistrate. This application will be connected with integrated control room set up by the administration to attend to needy patients.GIMS director Dr Rakesh Gupta said that a panel of doctors will monitor the operations of the app.“If need be, doctors will call a patient in need, connect via video call and provide the best advice,” said Gupta.“The virtual service of providing medical aid during pandemic is need of the hour. We all will work together to make this a success and take the best medical care to a person, who cannot use app or mobile. The need is to work as a team and deliver better healthcare services,” said Alok Singh commissioner of police GB Nagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/online-service-to-provide-medical-care-to-covid-patients-101622484410170.html
31-05-2021||Noida||Second sero survey directed for Ghaziabad, GB Nagar||The Uttar Pradesh government has issued guidelines for the second sero survey that will be conducted from June 4 in all districts, including Ghaziabad and Gautam Budh Nagar. The survey will check for the prevalence of antibodies against Covid-19 in the blood samples of a given population size. The previous survey in September/October last year found the presence of antibodies in 22% of about 16,000 people across 11 districts, including Ghaziabad. District-wise details is unavailable. This time the government has directed extra teams in four districts, including Ghaziabad, for the survey that will include urban slums. About 1,440 people from 31 randomly selected areas in each district will be tested. Twenty people who had the antibodies in the last year survey will also be included. Experts said they expect a higher prevalence of antibodies this time round as the second wave ravaged the district to a far greater extent than the first wave.“The survey should be conducted on the basis of proportional population in urban, rural, semi-urban, slums and other areas. The results of the upcoming survey are expected to be on higher side due to the second wave... antibodies generally last for several months (in patients who recovered from Covid-19). So, this survey will tell what proportion of population will not get affected in case any likely third wave arrives soon,” said Dr Lalit Kant, former epidemiology and communicable diseases head at the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR). “This time, it is estimated that the rate this time will be higher in range of about 45-50% and June is the ideal time to conduct the survey as majority people have recovered recently,” said Dr VB Jindal, former president of Indian Medical Association (Ghaziabad). GB Nagar district administration said they have begun preparations for the upcoming survey. “Last year the survey was conducted by the Centre through an institute,” said Suhas LY, district magistrate of GB Nagar. The officials in the Ghaziabad health department familiar with the development said Ghaziabad had a seroprevalence of nearly 25-26%. “This time with higher number of cases we expect that the results will show more rate of prevalence of antibodies. We are making preparations for the survey,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/second-sero-survey-directed-for-ghaziabad-gb-nagar-101622484350072.html
31-05-2021||Noida||GB Nagar admin to start vaccination for parents of children below 12 years from June 1||Following directions from the Uttar Pradesh government, the Gautam Budh Nagar district administration will begin vaccinating parents of children below 12 years of age against Covid-19 from June 1.The vaccinations will be conducted at two special centres - at JP International School at Greater Noida Omega 1 with 100 daily doses and the other at the primary health centre (PHC) at Bisrakh with 300 doses a day. Both centres will administer Covishield vaccine.“Parents need to register and book their slots on the Co-WIN portal to get vaccinated at these Covid Vaccination Centres (CVCs). They have been named ‘Abhibhavak Special No 1’ and ’Abhibhavak Special No 2’ on the portal. Those who book their slots at these centres will have to show proof that at least one of their children is below 12 years of age at the site, else they won’t be administered the vaccine,” said Dr Neeraj Tyagi, district immunisation officer.The slots for the two centres began Monday. By evening, all slots were booked at both centres and did not show any slots for the next few days. The age grouping on the site also mentioned it was open for all adults under 45 years of age. Tyagi said they would see the response and allot more slots in the coming days.An order from the UP additional chief secretary to all district’s dated May 30 elaborated on the rules for the special vaccination centres.At the time of vaccination, the guardian should show the proof of the age of their child (Aadhaar/birth certificate / school ID card) and will be verified at the gate.According to Dr (Brig) Rakesh Gupta, director of the Government Institute of Medical Sciences in Greater Noida, in the event of a third wave, children may also get the virus and it was imperative to protect those closest to them till a vaccination for them was approved.“In the second wave, we saw that the children got the virus from their parents. If we can ensure the parents are vaccinated, we can reduce the chance of them catching the virus, ” said Dr Gupta who is also the former head of paediatrics at the Armed Forces Combined Hospital in Pune.Dr NK Sharma, president of the Indian Medical Association (Noida) said, “Though no guidelines have come from the government for vaccination of children, I believe a decision on the same should be expedited. If we really want to safeguard our children before the third wave hits us, we should soon look for ways to vaccinate children as well.”Bharat Biotech is expected to conduct trials of its vaccine Covaxin among 12- to 15-year-olds. World over, only the Pfizer vaccine has been approved for use in children in the US, Canada and Europe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/gb-nagar-admin-to-start-vaccination-for-parents-of-children-below-12-years-from-june-1-101622484349476.html
31-05-2021||Noida||From June 15, walk-in shots at Noida’s pvt hospitals||NOIDA: In a bid to boost Covid immunisation figures in Gautam Budh Nagar, the district administration has allowed the private hospitals to start paid walk-in vaccination facilities from June 15, officials said. The GB Nagar district magistrate, Suhas LY, said that eligible persons would not be required to register themselves on the Co-WIN app to get vaccinated at a private facility. “Until April 30, the state government was supplying vaccine doses to private hospitals. However, after the Centre allowed the vaccination for people in the 18-45 years age group, private hospitals were instructed to make their own arrangements and procure vaccines directly from manufacturers,” he said. At present, the vaccination is being done at 64 government-run centres, while only two-three private hospitals are providing vaccine, the officials said.The DM said that in a recent meeting with representatives of private hospitals in the district, they were asked to help boost the vaccination drive by holding paid camps. “Vaccinations are mostly being carried out at government centres. However, some private hospitals have partnered with RWAs to set up camps in several residential sectors of the city,” he said. Dr Deepak Ohri, chief medical officer (CMO) of GB Nagar, said that the district administration’s decision will reduce the pressure on public health-care facilities. “With the paid vaccination facilities at the private hospitals, the rush at different government-run booths will come down,” he said. Ohri said that two private hospitals in the district have begun the vaccination from Saturday (May 29), but till June 15, people will have to register themselves on Co-WIN app, even for inoculation at the private facilities. Meanwhile, several private hospitals in the district have started preparations for the vaccination drive beginning at their places from Tuesday. Ajit Kumar, director (public relations) of Sharda hospital, said that the hospital has already purchased 12,000 doses of Covishield from the Serum Institute of India. “As many as 15 teams, comprising doctors, nurses and paramedics, have been made for two vaccination centres located on the campus. Each centre will have two to three booths and the target set for the first week is 10,000 vaccinations. Our target group will be different residential societies. The rate for a vaccine dose will be ₹850,” he said. Dr Yatharth Tyagi, director of Yatharth hospital, said that the vaccination is already taking place in his hospital since last week. “At present, we are unable to provide Covaxin jabs to a large number of people. But, since our consignments have already been shipped, we hope to cater to at least 1,000 persons per day from next week,” he said. On the other hand, a spokesperson of Fortis hospital in Noida said that the hospital will provide vaccines as per the choice of the people. “The price for one dose of Covishield is ₹850, while it’ll be ₹1,250 for Covaxin. Our daily target will depend on the availability of vaccines. However, we aim to vaccinate around 1,000 people on Sundays,” he said. Dr NK Sharma, president of Noida chapter of Indian Medical Association, said that the government’s decision to allow paid walk-in vaccination at private hospitals “will provide a vaccination cover to maximum number of people in the district”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/from-june-15-walk-in-shots-at-noida-s-pvt-hospitals-101622484289399.html
31-05-2021||Other||In rural pockets of Sonbhadra, motivators, onspot registrations to boost vaccination drive||From onspot registrations to deploying motivators and holding special camps, the Sonbhadra district administration is going all out to cover maximum number of people, especially those in remotes villages and tribals, under the Covid vaccination drive. The eastern UP district with about 18 lakh population, including 22% tribals, has seen 94,690 people taking the jab (till Sunday). “Of them, 27,336 have even got the second dose,” says district vaccination officer, Sonbhadra, Dr Ram Kunwar. Till now the drive covered people only above 45 years of age but from June 1 it will include those between 18 and 44 years. “Surveillance committees have been constituted. Senior administrative officials and chief medical officer hold a meeting with the committee members and the villages where vaccination has to be done are finalized. The next day, heath teams visit the villages,” said Dr Kunwar. He further said “Around two dozen teams of health department have been deployed for vaccination. Each team comprises five members-- a vaccinator, a verifier, an Asha worker, a support staff and a motivator.” He said the motivators try to convince people to get vaccinated and share examples of those who have taken the jab. The teams equipped with mobile do on-spot registration for those who are not so tech savvy. “Among the beneficiaries vaccinated at the camps in rural pockets, 60% came after registration at CoWIN portal and 40% were onspot registrations,” he said. While one of the team members is trained in onspot registration another is trained to handle cold chains. There are 54 vaccination centres in the district but the number may increase or decrease as per availability of vaccines. On Monday, vaccination was done in 40 remote villages and 697 people took the jab . Sonbhadra chief medical officer Dr Nem Singh said, “Vaccination is being done across the district with special focus on remote pockets. Around 95,000 people have been vaccinated in the district till date.” Asharfi Gond, a resident of Babhandiha village in Myorpur area of Sonbhadra said “I got myself vaccinated in the camp organised in my area a few days ago. I visited the camp with my Aadhaar card which was verified by the team and I was given the shot.” Social activist Jagat Vishwakarma, who is carrying out a drive to encourage locals for vaccination, said the youths who have smart phones with Internet facility help register locals on CoWIN portal. Banwasi Seva Ashram, a non government organisation working for the cause of tribals, has also been roped in to bust all myths related to vaccination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/in-rural-pockets-of-sonbhadra-motivators-onspot-registrations-to-boost-vaccination-drive-101622484229452.html
31-05-2021||Other||41% of all Covid deaths in J&K reported in May||May was a devastating month for J&K with highest cases and deaths caused by Covid-19.On Monday, the UT recorded the lowest of 1,525 cases in 42 days (owing to 20% less tests than average) which nevertheless took the month’s case tally to 1,14,382 – amounting to 39% of the overall 2,90,465 people infected in the UT.Similarly, 37 more people lost their lives on Monday taking the month’s fatalities to 1,625 (41.6% of overall 3,907 people who succumbed to the virus).“Deaths were more in the second wave as there were more cases. Now the cases have started declining but the daily deaths may take some time to come down,” said Kashmir Doctors’ Association president MY Tak.In terms of fatalities, the virus was more deadly in Jammu recording 1,020 deaths while Kashmir saw 605 fatalities. However, in terms of cases, the virus was more virulent in Kashmir recording 72,179 cases as against 42,203 cases in Jammu.However, 92.7% or 1,06,022 people of all infected patients during the month have recovered from the virus. The overall number of people who recovered have reached 2,51,463, thus improving the recovery rate to 86.57%.Active cases have come down to 35,095 from the highest of 52,848 on May 13.“We became complacent in the first wave which resulted in the second wave. But to prevent a third wave, we must ensure that there is strict adhere to the SOPs and no lowering of guards,” Tak said.In terms of vaccination, 32.90 lakh doses have been administered in the UT, inoculating around 70% of all people above 45 years of age.On Monday, with 278 cases, Jammu had the highest number of new cases, followed by 253 in Jammu, and 181 in Kupwara.Srinagar and Jammu have together contributed for about 1.15 lakh cases and 1,838 deaths of the total tally. Jammu reached the highest number of 1,067 fatalities, followed by Srinagar with 771 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/41-of-all-covid-deaths-in-j-k-reported-in-may-101622483210746.html
31-05-2021||Gurugram||Malls reopen after five weeks, see few customers||Malls in the city reopened on Monday after nearly five weeks with few customers patronising their outlets due to apprehensions over Covid-19 spread. On Sunday, the district administration issued an order permitting the reopening of malls between 10am and 6pm, on the condition that they develop an app to regulate the footfall and ensure that occupancy did not exceed one person per 25 square feet. The district administration had ordered the closure of malls on April 24 due to a rapid surge in cases.The footfall cap, however, did not have an impact on malls on the first day. The associations of both South Point Mall and Metropolitan Mall said that they had fewer than 50 visitors, each, throughout the day.“We had around 30 visitors to the malls on the first day. Several shops closed a few hours after opening, citing a lack of customers. After the second coronavirus wave, we are anticipating that people will take a few weeks to regain confidence and put trust in safety norms being adopted outdoors,” said Shobha Sengupta, the president of South Point Condominium Association, which oversees all maintenance and day-to-day functioning at South Point Mall on Golf Course Road.Sengupta said that as per the administration’s order of ensuring one person per 25 square feet, nearly 11,000 people can be accommodated inside the mall at a given time.“The administration’s order allows us to have a large number of visitors, but we are not anticipating such a high magnitude of footfall in June. Regardless, we are in the process of developing an app as mandated by the administration to regulate footfall and a meeting in this regard took place on Monday evening,” said Sengupta.Aman Bajaj, a member of MGF Metropolitan Mall Association, said that the mall on Mehrauli-Gurgaon (MG) Road received fewer than 50 visitors on the first day.“Last year, when we reopened in July after a gap of three months, we virtually had no business for the first 10-14 days. We are anticipating it will be a similar scenario this time around as well. Most people are still unaware that the malls in Gurugram have reopened. Once it becomes common knowledge, customers will start visiting malls and businesses will pick up,” said Bajaj.Bajaj said that to ensure safety regulations are adopted, the association has closed all entry and exit points in the mall, barring one, to keep track of the total number of visitors entering and exiting.“We have taken this step to keep a record on the total number of visitors inside the mall at any given time. As mandated by the administration, the mall management is in the process of developing an app to regulate visitors. In the interim, we will continue to have only one entry and exit point to ensure norms are being followed,” said Bajaj.Both association members said that the idea of developing an internal app is unfamiliar to them and they are trying to work out the best way ahead.“Our representatives spoke to officials of the district administration regarding the app and they have given our management ample time to develop it, and in the interim, ensure there is no crowding and social distancing is maintained. Developing an app is a completely unfamiliar territory and it will take us time to figure the best way to achieve it,” said Bajaj.While the malls on Golf Course Road and MG Road appeared deserted, the same was not the case in Ambience Mall, which received a higher footfall of visitors on Monday.“Most shops reopened in the mall on Monday. Only a few did not open as they are in the process of upgrading their safety measures, which is likely to be completed by the end of this week,” an official representative of Ambience Private Limited said.The representative further said that Ambience Mall had developed an app last year for the possibility of using it to regulate the entry of visitors.“We already have an in-built app which can be used for regulating visitors, as mandated by the administration. We have been informing visitors about its existence and giving them a week to get themselves accustomed to this guideline. From next week onwards we will make it mandatory that a person can only enter the mall premises provided they have downloaded the app,” said the representative, adding that the app will work similarly to the central government’s Aarogya Setu App, which allows entry to various public places, only if the app is downloaded. The representative said that the app will also help the mall management keep a real-time update on the number of people inside the mall at any given time and ensure there is no crowding.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/malls-reopen-after-five-weeks-see-few-customers-101622483151315.html
31-05-2021||Other||Delivery boy arrested for stealing seven iPhones||Police arrested a delivery associate, 30, of an e-commerce company on Sunday for allegedly stealing seven iPhones and replacing putting dummy phones in the boxes. The consignment had Apple’s iPhone 12 Pro Max model, which was said to be undelivered and was deposited to the warehouse on the same day, said the police.Police had received a complaint from Dharmender Kumar, area manager of Ashish Transport Company in Manesar, who was responsible for delivering goods for the e-commerce company last week. Kumar said that they had received an order on April 30 for seven iPhone 12 Pro Max from a woman in IMT Manesar Sector 1. The order was dispatched through a delivery associate, Sarvan Kumar, who is a native of Bihar’s Khagaria.“Sarvan, who had left with the consignment on May 5 morning, returned around 3 pm, and said that the customer was travelling and had asked him to get it the next week. He then deposited the consignment at the sortation centre of the e-commerce company. On May 5, we received an email from the company saying that all the iPhones returned were dummy phones, that were replaced with the original ones,” he said.Dharmender said it seems that the iPhones were stolen but as they were not confident, they launched an internal investigation. Last week, the company filed a complaint with the police, following which a team was formed, and the suspect’s movements were closely watched.Yashwant Yadav, station house officer (SHO) of IMT Manesar police station, said that they kept a close watch on the movement of Sarvan. “We tracked the location of the place he had visited on the day of the delivery and found out that he went only to his rented room that day. We arrested him on Sunday, and during the interrogation, he confessed his crime. He took us to his room where he had kept the stolen cellphones... He had been working at the company for the last two years, and wanted to make some quick money, following which he stole the iPhones,” Yadav said, adding that the cellphones were worth ₹8 lakh, and the role of an insider is not yet ruled out.A case was registered under Indian Penal Code (IPC) sections 408 (criminal breach of trust) and 420 (cheating) at the IMT Manesar police station. Sarvan was produced before a district court on Monday and was later released from the police custody on a bail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delivery-boy-arrested-for-stealing-seven-iphones-101622483150571.html
31-05-2021||Gurugram||Over 8,000 in 18-45 age group walk in for vaccinations||In the first vaccination drive held at government session sites since May 27, 8,217 people aged 18-45 years took their first shot of the Covid-19 vaccine on Monday, with the district health department allowing direct walk-in on the day. However, vaccinations for the age group will be suspended on Tuesday, as the health department has once again run out of vaccine stock. This was the highest single-day vaccination for the 18-45 age group, said officials of the health department, even as large crowds were witnessed at government vaccination facilities on Monday.“The Covid-19 vaccination opened for 18-45 years of people from May 2. It is for the first time the coverage in the 18-above category has been the highest in a single day as no slots were required to be booked on Co-WIN. Based on the availability of vaccines, vaccination for 18 and above will resume. The drive has been suspended for Tuesday,” said Dr MP Singh, district immunisation. officer. Dr Virender Yadav, the chief medical officer of Gurugram, said, “The vaccination for people aged 18-45 years took place at all health centres, with each centre getting 200 doses. For the first time, people above 18 years were allowed to directly walk in without booking a slot on the Co-WIN. Since we expected a heavy footfall, centres were directed to issue tokens to manage the crowd. Also, police personnel and a volunteer from civil defence organisation were deployed to ensure social distancing.”Until now, 120,000 doses have been administered to beneficiaries in the 18-45 age group, said officials.At the Wazirabad urban primary health centre, heavy footfall was seen since early morning. “The entire road (leading to the centre) was blocked as people turned up in large numbers. Police helped us in managing the crowd. To avoid chaos at the site, we collected the names and phone numbers of the 200 vaccine beneficiaries at the time of token distribution. Based on the list, people were called one by one for vaccination,” said Dr Anjum, medical officer, Wazirabad urban primary health centre. The centre achieved its target before 1pm. Many people, who were unaware of the token system and turned up in the afternoon to take their shot, were asked to leave. Randheer Kumar, a security guard, who waited at the Sector 31 polyclinic to get the shot, said, “Booking an appointment on Co-WIN was difficult. So, when we were told about getting direct vaccination without registration, we rushed to the vaccination centre. But by the time we reached, tokens were over.” Dr Neena Ghatwal, the medical officer at Sector 31 polyclinic, said, “More than 300 people gathered by 8am to collect tokens for vaccination. Only 200 people were given tokens on a first-come-first-served basis, while others were asked to leave.” Due to the expected rush, vaccinations were not held for those aged 45 and above at government facilities. The department, though, has demarcated 20,000 doses for them, which will be administered from Tuesday at 37 centres, including four centres for Covaxin. Private hospitals administered 423 doses of Covishield and Covaxin as the first dose and 156 as the second dose to those above 45 years, while over 7,334 doses were administered to people in the 18-45 age bracket. Also, 14 healthcare workers and 10 front-line workers took the vaccine jabs at government and private set-ups on the day. Overall, more than 16,154 people were vaccinated on Tuesday, taking the overall count to 691,640 does. The vaccination for the 18-45 age group has been suspended multiple times in the last month, with the latest gap from May 27 to Sunday being the longest. Two drive-through facilities with 500 slots, each, for the inoculation of 18-45 years of people were held during these days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/over-8-000-in-18-45-age-group-walk-in-for-vaccinations-101622483149972.html
31-05-2021||Gurugram||Faridabad residents want district declared dark zone for water extraction||Around 150 residents of Faridabad, demanding that the district be declared as a dark zone for water extraction, wrote to the Central Ground Water Board (CGWB) - Jal Shakti Ministry, district administration and state government.The letter, a copy of which was accessed by HT, states, “This (excessive extraction of groundwater) is going to create an uncontrollable crisis situation in Faridabad as the amount of groundwater being extracted in a day is approximately 300,000-litre groundwater per day from the boundary areas of the NIT only.”The letter was sent under the banner of Save Aravalli Trust, an NGO.At present, areas under the jurisdiction of the municipal corporations of Faridabad and Ballabgarh are notified for regulation of groundwater development by the CGWB.A dark zone refers to an area where the groundwater level has dipped beyond the acceptable parameter in a block. A block is first identified as critical before it is declared a dark zone. At present, areas under the municipal corporation are categorised as “critical.”The residents alleged that the underground water is being extracted illegally from areas outside the municipal corporation’s jurisdiction. According to the records of the agriculture department, Faridabad has been over-withdrawing water by almost 70% for the past few years.Minakshi Sharma, a resident of Faridabad Sector 49, said, “We have requested the authorities to declare the entire district as a dark zone as the groundwater levels have fallen drastically in the past few years — falling by one foot every year. Water is being extracted illegally in large quantities from rural areas like Pali, Ankhir; which do not fall under the already declared dark zone. Only the urban areas fall under that category. Due to this, the groundwater is being extracted and used for commercial purposes, which in turn results in further depletion of the water table.”Sukhbir Bhadana, a member of the gram panchayat in Pali, said, “Water is being extracted illegally through tube wells in and around our village. At least 5,000 litres of water are being extracted to fill one tanker, and more than 10 tankers are filled in a day. We have to buy water from these tanker operators as the pumps installed in our houses can’t be used.”Jeetendra Bhadana, a Pali resident, who compiled the letter, said, “We have been trying to conserve water by restoring ponds across the district or ensuring that rainwater harvesting structures are functional, but this will all be a waste if the illegal extraction of water continues like this. At least 20 tankers are filled per day from the outskirts of the district. There is no water left for agriculture or for wildlife, which will further affect biodiversity. We request the authorities to consider our demands and conduct ground inspections at the earliest. We have received a positive response from the Faridabad deputy commissioner, but the situation is alarming.”Faridabad deputy commissioner (DC) Yashpal Yadav could not be reached for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/faridabad-residents-want-district-declared-dark-zone-for-water-extraction-101622483149403.html
31-05-2021||Gurugram||Unscheduled power cuts disrupt online classes, work from home||Unscheduled power cuts of six to eight hours every day over the last two months are causing an array of problems, said residents, with students unable to attend online classes and working professionals facing difficulties in completing their tasks or attending meetings. Residents alleged that the problem is further compounded by expensive power backup solutions, which cost them ₹17 per unit, more than double the cost of ₹8 per unit for the government supply. Residents have threatened to strike at the power distribution’s officer later this week if the issue remains unresolved.Rajkumar Yadav, the president of Sector 46 RWA, said that they have complained to all officials concerned, including the chief engineer of the DHBVN, but to no avail. “We have attended several meetings with the power minister and district-level officers to present the electricity issues in our sector. Despite six months elapsing since the last meeting, they have not been able to come up with a solution. If the situation does not improve, we will not pay DHBVN bills and will protest for the privatisation of the department. We will hold a dharna pradarshan against the department at the DHBVN office,” he said.The problem is especially acute in DLF Phases 1 and 2, sectors 46, 57, 48 and 22, Palam Vihar, Sohna Road and Golf Course Extension Road. Residents alleged that despite multiple calls to the staff of Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (DHBVN), the distribution company, they have failed to get relief. PK Chauhan, the superintending engineer of DHBVN, who took charge on Monday, said that they have worked out multiple plans to ensure an uninterrupted power supply. “Regular power supply is our prime concern and the department is working towards it. There was an issue for three hours on Sunday due to storm and rainfall but was resolved by night. All linemen have been asked to be on alert and to reach the spot from where they receive complaints,” he said, adding that inspection will be carried out and issues will be resolved. Officials said that the peak demand in the city is around 2,000 megawatts (MW), of which 1,700 MW is consumed by urban parts. The average daily demand of the city is 1,125 MW. DHBVN officials also said that once the Smart Grid project is completed, expected by 2022, it will fully resolve all power supply issues. However, despite officials’ assurances, residents said that the power cuts are a recurring problem every summer but are hitting them hard this year due to the ongoing pandemic. They said that the electricity department regularly cites failure in feeder lines, infrastructure improvement and failure from substation time and again as the main reasons for outages. They alleged that the smart meters, installed over the last 15-18 months, are not working correctly which is leading to inflated bills. “Not a day passes without unexplained electricity cuts resulting in loss of working hours for professionals and study hours for children. The state of infrastructure has seen negligible improvement over the last decade and despite the electricity department imposing cuts in the name of improvement, the situation has only deteriorated,” said Sunil Goswami, a resident of DLF Phase-1. During the recent wave of the spike in Covid-19 cases, there were many instances where persons in home isolation were on oxygen concentrators and the unscheduled power cuts threatened their lives, said residents. “Every day, we are suffering between four and six hours of cuts and then fluctuations during the other times. Sunday was an exception as there was a dust storm and heavy rainfall, but this is happening continuously over the last few months. We have a Covid-19 patient in home isolation and on an oxygen concentrator, for whom it is important to have an uninterrupted power supply. Major infrastructure change is required and proactive maintenance is completely missing here,” said Sudhir Bhardwaj, a resident of Sector 56. Amit Jindal, the president of Vipul Greens residents’ welfare association (RWA) on Sohna Road, said that regular electricity cuts directly impact the residents’ energy bill as it increases their diesel generator (DG) consumption. “DG unit rate is almost more than double the cost of DHBVN unit rate, leading to extra burden when there is a salary deduction in most of the private sectors. Since most of the people are working from home, frequent power cuts are disrupting meetings. Online classes for children are also being disrupted with unit tests starting in 15 days. The department should urgently install infrastructure that can withstand the squalls and rain during which they necessarily shut off the electricity supply,” he said. Residents also alleged that frequent voltage fluctuations are affecting the operation of household appliances and motor pumps, which causes water shortage. They said that additional transformers must be installed at the earliest to ensure smooth supply. Vinod Tayal, a resident of DLF Phase 2, said that frequent breakdown of electricity infrastructure indicates the substandard quality of transformers, jumpers and cables. “There is an urgent need to increase the budget for maintenance of electricity infrastructure since the demand for electricity consumption has grown exponentially in the last few years, whereas the budgets allocated for upgrade and maintenance has not. The cuts also make it difficult for the residents to switch on their water pumps, leading to water shortage. The government must look into this,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/unscheduled-power-cuts-disrupt-online-classes-work-from-home-101622483090674.html
31-05-2021||Gurugram||MCG councillor succumbs to Covid-19||RS Rathee, Ward 34 councillor of the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG), succumbed to Covid-19 late Sunday night, officials said on Monday. The 56-year-old councillor, who had contracted the infection in early April, was admitted to a private hospital for the past four weeks. Despite showing signs of improvement, his health deteriorated over the last three days, and he died around 9.45pm on Sunday due to multiple organ failure.“Our local councillor was responding to the treatment, and his health had started improving. However, his condition deteriorated all of a sudden, and he was put on ventilator support on Friday,” said Dhruv Bansal, official spokesperson of DLF Qutab Enclave Residents Welfare Association (QWERA) and Gurgaon Citizens Council (GCC). Rathee had founded these two RWA groups — QWERA and GCC — in 1987 and 2005, respectively.The MCG councillor had lost both his parents to Covid-19 just two weeks ago. He is survived by his wife Rama Rani Rathee, a former MCG councillor, a daughter, and a son.A Good SamaritanRathee played an active role in providing food, medicines, and oxygen cylinders to other relief operations for Gurugram residents amidst the pandemic.He was also instrumental in leading a nearly two-year-long MCG investigation, which highlighted various discrepancies in the process of allotment, hiring, credentials of MCG workers, and also brought focus on the possibility of ghost workers. His investigation had prompted the MCG to initiate its own probe, and over 600 workers were terminated in this connection.“He was the most proactive member of the MCG, and always brought up important citizen-centric agendas during the official meetings. He was perhaps the most informed councillor, and knew all intricacies of the MCG’s operations and shortcomings. Even though he was a member of the Opposition, he always lent support for any initiative that aided in Gurugram’s development,” said Madhu Azad, mayor, MCG.Rathee had won the 2017 MCG elections as an independent candidate. He had contested the 2019 Haryana assembly elections on Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) ticket. During his tenure as an MCG councillor, he played a key role in the ongoing maintenance transferring process of DLF Phases 1, 2, and 3 from DLF to the MCG, highlighting discrepancies in the MCG budget and fighting against the allotment of forest land for a petrol pump, among other such issues.Before becoming a councillor, he was the president of QWERA, which covered DLF Phases 1 and 2, and the GCC which dealt with the problems of RWAs and residents across the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/mcg-councillor-succumbs-to-covid19-101622483091279.html
31-05-2021||Other||‘Check malpractice of referring patients to GMC Jammu’||Former health minister Choudhary Lal Singh on Monday squarely blamed the UT administration for spiralling Covid deaths in Jammu region, especially Jammu district.Jammu as of date has logged 1,067 Covid deaths — highest among all 20 districts of Jammu and Kashmir.During his tenure as the health minister from 2002 to 2004 in the Congress-PDP alliance, the “fiery leader” had brought the entire health department back on rails making its bureaucrats, superintendents, doctors, paramedics and other health staff accountable to work.The erstwhile state had six health ministers in the past 20-25 years and they all hailed from Jammu. They were Pandit Mangat Ram Sharma, Suman Bhagat, Choudhary Lal Singh, Sham Lal Sharma, Bali Bhagat and Dr DK Manyal. It was Choudhary Lal Singh, who “disciplined” the entire health department.Lal Singh said, “If you want to check deaths then bring transparency. Put up CCTV cameras in all Covid care centres, and government and private hospitals. This is my suggestion to the administration.”“Hospitals from other districts in Jammu, which are referring Covid patients to GMC Jammu, should immediately stop this malpractice. There is no shortage of staff and beds in these hospitals,” he said.“There could be some shortage of oxygen and equipment in district and sub-district hospitals, primary health centres and community health centres but we have posted qualified doctors there, who are experienced and better than the medical students at GMC Jammu,” he added.“We have experienced and medically trained doctors in DHs, SDHs, PHCs and CHCs. Why are they referring patients to GMC Jammu?” he asked and called it an administrative lapse.Singh also called government helpline numbers a hoax claiming that not even a single person got oxygen or medical help from them.He questioned the administration what purpose the GMCs in Kathua, Doda and Rajouri are serving during the pandemic.“Kashmir is a bit better than Jammu and they are more aware than us when it comes to Covid appropriate behaviour but major deaths that took place were due to unavailability of oxygen and ventilators,” he said.GMC, Jammu is the only major referral hospital for all 10 districts of the region unlike Kashmir, which has four major referral hospitals.GMC and associated hospitals Jammu (GMC&AH Jammu) has a total bed capacity of 967 beds and bed occupancy as of Monday was 386.GMC principal and dean Dr Shashi Sudan said, “Going by bed occupancy, there is a marginal relief to medics and paramedics but we cannot lower our guard.”Official data for last eight days (May 24 to 31) revealed that the UT recorded 19,844 Covid cases, 31,843 recoveries, 343 deaths of which 205 took place in Jammu and 138 in Kashmir.The UT, till date, has logged 3,907 Covid deaths.From May 8 to 18, Jammu recorded 435 Covid deaths as compared to 246 in Kashmir.Between May 8 and 18, at least 681 people have lost their lives to Covid in J&K, of which 435 deaths took place in the Jammu division.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/check-malpractice-of-referring-patients-to-gmc-jammu-101622483090143.html
31-05-2021||Pune||39.69 km road laid in 24 hours by Pune firm, PWD min says it’s a record||Pune: With the help of Maharashtra state government’s public works department (PWD). Pune-based private firm constructed a 39.69-km road between Pusegaon and Mhasurne in Satara in 24 hours.Public works department minister Ashok Chavan said, despite difficulties, staff in his department along with others completed single-lane 39.69 km road within a day.“One lane of road was completed using bituminous concrete( BC). I congratulate everyone for this task. The work has been recorded in Limca Book of Records. It will be a bigger pride to break our own record and create new in future,” said Chavan.PWD has given contract to Rajpath Infracon, which had set to construct a 30 km of road in a day. However, the team constructed 39.69 km of roads in a day between 7 am on Sunday (May 30) and 7 am on Monday (May 31) in 24 hours.Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar said, “This shows that despite adversities, we can complete project with speed.”The road was three and a half metres wide and 39.69 kilometres long covering Pusegaon, Jaigaon, Aundh, Gopuj and Mhasurne. The work was completed with the help of about 474 workers and 250 vehicles and machinery. The initiative was carried out in compliance with the rules laid down by the central and state governments regarding Covid-19. Also, Rajpath Infracon took care of all precautionary measures.Public works department secretary Ulhas Debadwar, chief engineer Sada Salunke, MSRDC executive engineer S Mungliwar, former engineer SP. Darade and others inspected the road work and appreciated Rajpath Infracon.Rajpath Infracon president and executive director Jagdish Kadam said. “Pune-based Rajpath Infracon had got work of the 47 km road from Pusegaon to Mhasurne in Satara district from the public works department under HAM (Hybrid Annuity Model). We decided to pay homage to the state on the occasion of celebrating 61th year of formation and show positivity in this negative environment. We achieved our aim in collaboration with the PWD and completed its resolution to set a world record by constructing 39.69 km of asphalt road in one day. This world record is dedicated to the people of the state.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/3969-km-road-laid-in-24-hours-by-pune-firm-pwd-min-says-its-a-record-101622483029989.html
31-05-2021||Other||J&K asks administrative secretaries to vaccinate staff of civil secretariat||The Jammu and Kashmir administration on Monday asked all administrative secretaries to vaccinate the entire staff of the civil secretariat, who are above the age of 18 against Covid-19.In a circular issued by commissioner secretary to the government MK Diwvedi, administrative secretaries were asked to ensure vaccination of the entire staff of the civil secretariat above the age of 18.“Attention of all administrative secretaries is invited towards circular no. 12-JK(GAD) of 2021 dated 6.4.2021, wherein instructions were issued for ensuring vaccination of employees above the age of 45. Since vaccination against Covid is now available for the age groups of 18 years and above, it is imperative that the entire staff working in civil secretariat, Jammu/Srinagar gets vaccinated immediately,” read the circular.“It is impressed upon all administrative secretaries to ensure vaccination of all employees working in the administrative departments by June 10, 2021 and submit a report in this regard on June 11, 2021 to the general administration department,” it concluded.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jk-asks-administrative-secretaries-to-vaccinate-staff-of-civil-secretariat-101622482851930.html
31-05-2021||Other||J&K reopens after month of curfew, people heave sigh of relief||Many shops and markets reopened and public transport resumed, gradually, in parts of Kashmir including Srinagar, on Monday after the month-long lockdown imposed to contain the surging Covid-19 infections last month was partially lifted.From early Monday morning, shopkeepers started to open shutters hesitantly and people trickled into the streets. There was initial reluctance to resume business among traders and transporters as the news of unlock took time to trickle down.At Dalgate market, a cloth merchant said, “I am opening the shop exactly after a month. Past three years have been difficult, particularly for traders.”Jammu and Kashmir has witnessed lockdowns continuously for the last three years – first with abrogation of Article 370 in 2019 and then following two Covid waves in 2020 and 2021.May has been a devastating month with 1,12,857 Covid cases and 1,588 deaths in J&K. The authorities had imposed a Covid curfew on April 29 and decided to lift it from Monday.In the 15 districts of the UT, including Srinagar and Jammu, which have been placed under orange category, outdoor bazaars and shopping areas will open on alternate days while in five districts of Kashmir in red category — Pulwama, Anantnag, Baramulla, Budgam and Kupwara — public transport and malls will remain shut. However, auto-rickshaws will follow an odd-even system.Weekend curfew will continue in all the 20 districts from Friday 8pm to Monday 7am and the daily curfew will remain in force from 8pm to 7am.State executive committee has kept all educational institutions, including the private coaching centres, closed till June 15. It also opted to keep all cinema halls, multiplexes, clubs, gyms, spas and paid parks closed until further orders.In a major relief marginal labourers including construction workers and daily wage earners were also seen returning back to their work.“It’s a major relief to daily wagers like us. We were having a tough time as construction works had come to a standstill,” said Rajesh, a marble worker from Chhattisgarh.In the meantime, private cars filled the streets of the city while one could witness autos and three-wheelers lining up their area stands.Occasional public transport buses, including those run by State Road Transport Corporation, were seen ferrying people.At the Boulevard Road lining the Dal Lake, empty shikaras were seen waiting for customers on the ghat. “I rarely ferried any visitor during the lockdown. I hope things will improve now. It is summer and we hope tourists will visit,” said a middle-aged shikara-rower Mohammad Sultan.A fruit-seller in the old city was agitated when asked about the effect of the lockdown. “Covid has not just devastated our health and economy but also our peace of mind,” he said.Authorities say that Covid wave has now started affecting the rural areas as well. The administration has been establishing five-bedded Covid care centres in every panchayat of the UT.Akhtar Rashid, a farmer from a remote village of Shopian, was waiting on the roadside in Srinagar so that somebody can hire him for daily labour work. “I came to the city a few days ago as I anticipated that the lockdown will be lifted. I finished farming at my hometown and now have some spare time. I want to earn some days of labour,” he said.In old city and posh Gandhi Nagar area policemen were seen at rotaries and markets. They also made announcements on loudspeakers asking the people to follow Covid-appropriate behaviour strictly.“Gradual opening of businesses may not lead to rise in Covid cases irrespective of our concern. Cars on roads don’t spread the virus, but assembling in closed spaces like offices and marriage halls can,” said Dr Tariq Tramboo, an interventional pain specialist.Meanwhile, the private transporters has gone on an indefinite strike on April 21 after government came out with Covid guidelines which among other things, allowed operations of public transport at 50% authorised seating capacity in J&K.All J&K Transport Welfare Association chairman TS Wazir said, “We have been demanding hike in passenger fare to facilitate smooth operations by the transporters but government is not listening to us at all. The transporters are meeting again on Tuesday to take a decision. Plying our vehicles at 50% capacity with no hike in fare is impossible for us. I met the transport commissioner today but the stalemate continues.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jk-reopens-after-month-of-curfew-people-heave-sigh-of-relief-101622482791812.html
31-05-2021||Other||Unlocks begins in Himachal with opening of markets||As the Covid-19 cases significantly dip in most part of the state, Himachal Pradesh on Monday went into partial unlock with all shops opening for five hours.The opening of economic activities also led to increased movement of people in bazaars.The Himachal government had extended the Covid curbs till June 7 but announced relaxations, including increase in the opening hours of shop last Friday.However, rural people faced difficulties in reaching markets as public transport has not been resumed yet. The state cabinet will decide on restarting public transport in its meeting slated for June 5.Suresh Kumar, of Gharoh near Dharamshala, said, due to no public transport, he is facing difficulties in reaching the town where he had to purchase some household things and cloths.Shopkeepers are happy about reopening of markets and hope to make up the losses they suffered in last one month due to the curbs.Jeet Singh, who runs a carpentry shop in Dharamshala, said government should have allowed opening of shops in a staggered manner on alternative days.“Daily earners like me have suffered huge losses during the lockdown,” he said.Meanwhile, Kangra deputy commissioner Rakesh Kumar Prajapati said all markets in district can open from Monday to Friday during curfew relaxation hours.However, bars will remain shut and only takeaway services are being allowed in the restaurants.Guidelines of weekend lockdown will remain intact and continue accordingly,” said Prajapati.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/unlocks-begins-in-himachal-with-opening-of-markets-101622482551486.html
31-05-2021||Other||Jai Ram inaugurates makeshift Covid hospital in Solan||Himachal chief minister Jai Ram Thakur virtually inaugurated a makeshift Covid hospital built at Radha Soami Satsang Beas Centre at Rabon in Solan on Monday. The hospital has been built at the cost of ₹3.90 crore.Thakur said the hospital will have 200 beds with piped oxygen support which will help strengthen the health infrastructure to battle Covid.He said that 100 doctors, staff nurses and other paramedical staff have been deployed at the new facility besides setting up a laboratory for rapid testing.The CM said CCTV cameras have been installed in the hospital for monitoring and a centralised TV screen for entertainment of patients. He said the hospital was set up in a record time of 14 days.Jai Ram said the state government has laid special emphasis on capacity building in health infrastructure to facilitate the patients.“We are focusing on early detection of Covid patients so that they can be provided timely treatment,” he said.He added that during the last few days, the recovery rate in state has climbed to 89% which is a good sign. “Government is ensuring regular monitoring of patients in home isolation so they can be shifted to hospitals early if the situation requires so,” he said.The state government is also providing home isolation kits to Covid patients for speedy recovery.He said the elected representatives should ensure that these kits are made available to Covid patients at the earliest.State health minister Rajiv Saizal said the role of many religious organisations and NGOs is commendable in tackling the Covid situation in state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jai-ram-inaugurates-makeshift-covid-hospital-in-solan-101622482491758.html
31-05-2021||Other||Nadda, Jai Ram, Anurag lay foundation stones of oxygen plants in 2 medical colleges||BJP national president Jagat Prakash Nadda, Himachal chief minister Jai Ram Thakur and Union minister of state for finance and corporate affairs Anurag Singh Thakur on Monday virtually laid foundation stones of 140 LPM pressure swing adsorption oxygen plant each at Dr Radhakrishanan Government Medical College, Hamirpur and CHC Ghumarwin in Bilaspur.Each plant will provide uninterrupted oxygen supply to 30 beds each.Nadda said, “When most national political parties have gone under virtual quarantine, BJP, through its ‘Sewa Hi Sangathan’ has come forward to help people in state in fighting the pandemic and mitigating the sufferings of a common man.”He said the Union government, led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, provided free ration to 80 crore people during the first and second wave of the pandemic.Nadda said there was only one virology lab to test Covid last year and the number has now gone up to 2,500. He appreciated Anurag for helping the state fight the pandemic.In his address, Jai Ram said the state had only around 200 active cases of Covid as on February 23 which shot up to over 40,000 during the second wave. The recovery rate in state has reached 89% in the last few days.He said there was no testing lab when the first cases were reported last year and now there are 35 labs.The number of dedicated Covid treatment facilities has been increased to 57 from 11 last year while the number of beds has been increased from 440 to over 3,900 now.Anurag said it is due to the initiative of the national BJP president that each party functionary contributed generously towards helping Covid patients and their families.Thakur said an oxygen bank will be set up in Himachal to provide uninterrupted oxygen supply to 700 beds. He said Nadda will flag off the first consignment of 108 oxygen concentrators and 160 oxygen cylinders for this oxygen bank soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/nadda-jai-ram-anurag-lay-foundation-stones-of-oxygen-plants-in-2-medical-colleges-101622482370209.html
31-05-2021||Other||Bed occupancy in Himachal dips to 38%||With a dip in daily Covid-19 cases in Himachal Pradesh, the situation has now started to ease out in terms of health facilities across state with the bed occupancy declining to 38%.The bed occupancy had reached a critical 70% when the Covid cases were at peak in early to mid-May with more than 40,000 active cases. In last few days, the recovery rate has gone up to 89% and active cases declined below 15,000.Two premier health institutes, Indira Gandhi Medical College (IGMC), Shimla and Dr Rajendra Prasad Government Medical College (RPGMC) had run out of ICU beds.As per data on the state government portal, there are a total of 3,924 beds for Covid-19 patients in the state of which 1,496 are occupied while 2,428 are vacant.The strength of beds with oxygen support is 2,691 of which 1,086 are occupied and 1,535 are available. Similarly, of 290 ICU beds, 101 are vacant. As many as 729 standard beds are also available across state.In Kangra, the most populous district, of 759 beds only 346 are occupied. There are 600 oxygenated beds of which 264 are occupied and 336 vacant.However, there are only four ICU beds available of 70 such beds.In Shimla, of total 808 beds, 468 are unoccupied. Seven ICU beds and 264 oxygenated beds are available in district. In Mandi, another big district, 368 of 552 beds are available.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bed-occupancy-in-himachal-dips-to-38-101622482249881.html
31-05-2021||Other||Month on, fatalities in Himachal come down to 19||Himachal Pradesh on Monday recorded the lowest number of fatalities due to Covid-19 in over a month with 19 people succumbing to the contagion; and the death toll mounted to 3,127.Eight fatalities were reported in Kangra, four in Shimla, three in Solan, and one each in Bilaspur, Hamirpur, Mandi and Una. Before this, the lowest deaths were reported on April 18 when 18 people died due to the virus.Highest fatalities since the virus outbreak were recorded on May 18 when 78 people had died in a single day.Meanwhile, Covid cases in state rose to 1,90,330 after 865 people were tested positive for the virus. Recoveries reached 1,73,560 after 2,167 people recuperated.Of the new cases, 218 were reported in Kangra, 113 in Mandi, 99 in Una, 87 in Sirmaur, 75 in Hamirpur, 64 in Shimla, 52 in Bilaspur, 49 in Chamba, 41 each in Kinnaur and Kullu, 20 in Solan, and six in Lahaul-Spiti.The active cases have come down to 13,621. Kangra remains the worst-hit district with 43,413 cases, followed by Mandi with 25,392 cases, Shimla 23,820, Solan 21,507, Sirmaur 14,660, Hamirpur 13,491, Una 12,423, Bilaspur 11,989, Chamba 9,797, Kullu 8,303, Kinnaur 2,967, and Lahaul-Spiti 2,568.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/month-on-fatalities-in-himachal-come-down-to-19-101622482190298.html
31-05-2021||Other||China building infrastructure along border areas in a big way: Jai Ram||Himachal chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Monday said that China is increasing its infrastructure along the borders of Himachal Pradesh.“China is trying to find convenient locations above the Indian posts in Tibet region to gain strategic superiority,” he said in a statement issued here.The CM said that he recently visited the forwards areas along the Chinese borders in Himachal’s Kinnaur and Lahaul-Spiti districts.“The forces are doing their job and working hard in difficult conditions in state along the LAC. It is my duty to encourage and boost their moral. I had visited there, nothing serious has been noticed but in Tibet region they are building infrastructure in a big way,” said Thakur.“Though, they are doing it in their territory but we will definitely send a report to the Union government in this regard,” he added.The CM along with director general of police (DGP) Sanjay Kundu had visited the forward areas of Lepcha in Kinnaur and Lahaul-Spiti districts on May 29 and interacted with officers of the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP), Dogra Scouts and 15th Bihar Regiment at the army helipad of Samdo in Lahaul-Spiti.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/china-building-infrastructure-along-border-areas-in-a-big-way-jai-ram-101622482072299.html
31-05-2021||Lucknow||Live streaming of pujas, e-bhandaras as Covid affects Bada Mangal celebrations in Lucknow||: For the second consecutive year, Covid would affect Bada Mangal celebrations in the state capital as prominent city temples would stay closed for devotees. There would be online darshan and e-bhandaras instead, as regular bhandaras (community feasts), offering poori sabzi, choley chawal, ice creams, across the city won’t be held. The Lucknow Municipal Corporation (LMC) has urged the people to donate dry rations for community kitchens run by it for the needy.Famous temples including the Bada Hanuman Temple, Aliganj, Hanuman Setu in front of the Lucknow University and the historic Chhachhi Kuan temple in the state capital would not organise festivities either. “However, like last year, devotees will be able to witness live-streaming of the puja organized by various temples,” said secretary Sankat Mochan Hanuman Temple Trust Diwakar Tripathi.“The temple aarti would be webcast live as entry of devotees won’t be allowed. Regulating entry of five people at a time, as permitted under the Covid guidelines too won’t work either. For there could be thousands of devotees eager for entry and that’s why we have decided to go in for online darshan,” he said. Aliganj Hanuman Temple management too has decided against opening the temple for devotees and the New Hanuman temple will remain closed too. The Mauni Baba Temple in Alambagh, Chhachhi Kuan temple in old city, Rakabganj Hanuman Temple, the Aminabad Hanuman temple would also stay closed for devotees. Lucknow mayor Sanyukta Bhatia has urged the devotees not to organise big bhandaras but donate uncooked flour, rice, pulses to the needy. She has called on the bhandara organisers to register on the Mangalman site which will help them donating the ration kits to poor and needy.Bhandara organisers can also organise e-bhandaras by donating their ration to Lucknow Municipal Corporation which is operating 8 community kitchens in the city. The donors can donate through the Mangalman site. They can also contact e-bhandara convenor RajKumar Tewari on his mobile number 9415755950.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/live-streaming-of-pujas-e-bhandaras-as-covid-affects-bada-mangal-celebrations-in-lucknow-101622481769345.html
31-05-2021||Other||RBI cancels banking licence of Shivajirao Bhosale Sahakari bank||PUNE The Reserve Bank of India (RBI), on Monday, cancelled the banking licence of the Shivajirao Bhosale Sahakari Bank, claiming that the bank does not have adequate capital and earning prospects. The RBI has, vide order dated May 28, 2021, stated: “Consequently, the bank ceases to carry on banking business, with effect from the close of business on May 31, 2021. The Registrar of Cooperative Societies, Maharashtra has also been requested to issue an order for winding up the bank and to appoint a liquidator for the bank.”“Consequent to the cancellation of its licence, the Shivajirao Bhosale Sahakari Bank is prohibited from conducting any banking business, which includes acceptance of deposits and repayment of deposits, as defined in Section 5(b), read with Section 56 of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949, with immediate effect,” the RBI stated.RBI chief general manager Yogesh Dayal said, “With cancellation of licence and commencement of liquidation proceedings, the process of paying the depositors of the Shivajirao Bhosale Sahakari Bank as per the DICGC Act, 1961 will be set in motion. As per the data submitted by the bank, 98% of the depositors will receive full amounts of their deposits from the Deposit Insurance and Credit Guarantee Corporation (DICGC). On liquidation, every depositor would be entitled to receive deposit insurance claim amount of his/her deposits up to a monetary ceiling of ₹5,00,000/- (rupees five lakh only), from the DICGC, subject to the provisions of the DICGC Act, 1961.” As many as 71,000 investors have invested a fixed deposit of ₹5 lakh, while 8,000 investors invested more than ₹5 lakh in the form of various deposits. In January 2020, the Pune Police registered a case against Maharashtra State Legislative Council (MLC) member and bank chairman Anil Bhosale, bank director Suryaji Jadhav, chief accountant Shailesh Bhosale and chief executive officer, Tanaji Padwal. A case has also been registered against Bhosale’s wife Reshma Bhosale, who is also an accused in the case. The case was registered under sections 406, 408, 468, 471 and 34 of IPC and relevant sections of Maharashtra Protection of Interest of Depositors (MPID).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/rbi-cancels-banking-licence-of-shivajirao-bhosale-sahakari-bank-101622481709333.html
31-05-2021||Mumbai||Non-essential shops in Mumbai can operate 7 am to 2 pm on alternate days: BMC||With Covid-19 cases on a steady decline, the Mumbai civic body on Monday allowed non-essential shops to function between 7 am to 2 pm on alternate days from Monday to Friday for the next 15 days.The shops selling essential items, which are currently allowed to operate between 7 am to 11 am, are now allowed to remain open all days between 7 am to 2 pm.While relaxing the stricter lockdown-like curbs, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), in an order issued under the 'Break the Chain' initiative, also permitted the distribution of non-essential items along with essential ones under e-commerce.The order stated essential shops will now function on all days of the week between 7 am to 2 pm. Presently they are permitted to remain open between 7 am to 11 am.Non-essential shops can function between 7 am to 2 pm on alternate days from Monday to Friday.The shops located on the right side of the roads will be open on Monday, Wednesday and Friday, while the shops on the left side will be allowed to operate on Tuesday and Thursday."Next week, the shops on the left side of the road will be open on Monday, Wednesday and Friday, while the shops on the right will be open on Tuesday and Thursday," the order stated, adding that the same arrangement will continue for the weeks ahead.The BMC also stated that these orders will be applicable until the directives issued by the state government under 'Break The Chain' remain in force."As announced by the government from time to time, it's mandatory for all the commercial establishments to follow social distancing, use of masks and other measures," the order stated.Mumbai has been witnessing a steady decline in fresh Covid-19 cases. The megapolis on Monday reported 676 cases, the lowest since February 23 this year, taking its tally to 7,06,251, a civic official said. The day also saw 20 deaths, taking the toll to 14,884.The Maharashtra government on Sunday extended the lockdown-like curbs till June 15 and also announced that relaxations will be granted depending upon the Covid-19 positivity rate and availability of oxygen beds.In municipal corporations or regions of districts with less than 10 per cent Covid-19 positivity rate and where the availability of occupied oxygen beds will be less than 40 per cent, all the establishments/shops engaged in essential commodities and services that are presently opened from 7 am to 11 am can now remain open from 7 am to 2 pm, the government had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/nonessential-shops-in-mumbai-can-operate-7-am-to-2-pm-on-alternate-days-bmc-101622480651843.html
31-05-2021||Kolkata||Bengal's Covid-19 toll crosses 15,000-mark; 131 new deaths reported||West Bengal's Covid-19 death toll on Monday crossed the 15,500 mark after 131 more people succumbed to the infection in the last 24 hours, the health department said.Daily coronavirus cases rose by 10,137 mounting the states overall caseload to 13,76,377.The overall number of Covid-19 fatalities is 15,541 now, the department said in a bulletin.As many as 17,856 patients recovered from the disease in the last 24 hours improving the discharge rate to 92.55 per cent.The overall number of people, who have recuperated from the infection, has gone up to 12,73,788.Currently, the number of active cases stands at 87,048.North 24 Parganas accounted for 33 deaths while Kolkata registered 28 coronavirus fatalities. The rest of the deaths were reported from several other districts, including 10 from South 24 Parganas.The new positive cases included 2,376 from North 24 Parganas district and 1,324 from Kolkata, the bulletin said.Since Sunday, 58,843 samples were tested for coronavirus in the state taking the total number of such examinations to 1,24,30,977.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bengals-covid-19-toll-crosses-15-000-mark-131-new-deaths-reported-101622479809887.html
31-05-2021||Jaipur||Harsh Vardhan writes to Rajasthan health minister over ‘wastage’ of Covid-19 vaccine jabs||Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan on Monday wrote to Rajasthan health minister Raghu Sharma over reports of wastage of Covid-19 vaccine doses in the state, urging Sharma to look into the matter.Click here for latest Covid-19 updates"Taking serious cognisance of reports of wastage of Covid-19 vaccine doses in some places in Rajasthan, I've written a letter to state health minister @RaghuSharmaINC and urged him to look into the issue. I've also asked him to make better preparations at the local level to avoid wastage of vaccine doses," a rough translation of Harsh Vardhan's tweet, posted in Hindi, read.राजस्थान के कुछ ज़िलों में कोरोना वैक्सीन की बर्बादी की ख़बरों को गंभीरता से लेते हुए मैंने राज्य के स्वास्थ्य मंत्री श्री @RaghusharmaINC जी को पत्र लिखकर मामले की जांच करने को कहा है।मैंने वैक्सीन की बर्बादी रोकने के लिए स्थानीय स्तर पर बेहतर योजना बनाने को कहा है।@PMOIndia pic.twitter.com/nBsfGGAhtNQuoting Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the Union health minister posted further, "Wastage of even a single dose means failure in protecting an individual from Covid-19." He added in the same tweet that all states and Union territories (UTs) should target zero vaccine wastage.एक वैक्सीन बर्बाद होने का अर्थ है एक व्यक्ति को आवश्यक सुरक्षा प्रदान करने में अक्षमता :पीएम मोदीजीसभी राज्यों व केंद्र-शासित प्रदेशों को zero vaccine wastage को अपना लक्ष्य बनाना होगा।इसके लिए दायित्वपूर्ण व्यवहार ज़रूरी है!@PMOIndia @RaghusharmaINC @ashokgehlot51 #COVID19 pic.twitter.com/Qh3NhHT4aNIn his letter, the Union health minister cited stories published in Hindi dailies Dainik Bhaskar and Rajasthan Patrika. "In almost all districts of Rajasthan, vaccine wastage is more than the national average of less than 1%. Further, the Dainik Bhaskar article has also highlighted that more than 500 vials of Covid-19 vaccines were found in the waste bins of 35 Covid-19 vaccination centres in the state," he wrote."The high wastage, you would agree, is not acceptable," Harsh Vardhan added in his letter.Earlier in the day, Sharma, the state health minister, posted a series of tweets in which he called the Dainik Bhaskar report "misleading" and "bereft of facts."दैनिक भास्कर अखबार में डस्टबिन में वैक्सीन मिलने की खबर पूर्णतः तथ्यों से परे एवं भ्रामक है। वैक्सीन वाइल्स का उपयोग करने के बाद इन्हें नियमानुसार सम्बंधित चिकित्सा संस्थान में ही जमा करवाया जाता है। (1/5)Last Friday, Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot, too, accused the opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), to which Harsh Vardhan belongs, of making "deliberate attempts" to mislead the public by claiming 1.15 million vaccine doses have been wasted in Rajasthan.Also Read | ‘Deliberate attempts being made to mislead public’: Rajasthan CM Gehlot on BJP’s claim of vaccine wastageThe war of words comes at a time when several states have reported a shortage of vaccine doses. In several states, vaccination drives have been put on hold, at least for a section of beneficiaries, due to shortage of jabs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/harsh-vardhan-writes-to-rajasthan-health-minister-over-wastage-of-covid-19-vaccine-jabs-101622471499374.html
31-05-2021||Pune||Man found dead inside society’s water tank||A 30-year-old man was found dead in the water tank of a society in Narhe area of Pune on Monday. The man was identified as Vitthal Ankush Vaykule, a resident of Parthavi Society in Narhe. He was found in the water tank of the same building by his flat mate. He lived in a bachelor accommodation with one other man who also works in the same pharma company. “He was a field worker and worked as a therapy manager at the pharma company. He has left no note. At night he had gone out and since he did not come back, his friends started looking for him. In the night they could not find him but in the morning, they found him in the water tank. Drowning was found to be the reason for his death. Further investigations are on,” said assistant police inspector S Kanse of Sinhagad road police station. The tank is located underground near the building. However, how Vaykule ended up in it is yet to be known. When the police were informed, they called for fire brigade officials to pull the body up. His family was informed, and his body was taken to a government hospital for post-mortem. The incident was recorded in an accidental death report at Sinhagad road police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/man-found-dead-inside-society-s-water-tank-101622477209048.html
31-05-2021||Pune||PMC will have private agencies on standby for dead-animal disposal this monsoon season||In preparation for the monsoon, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has decided to have agencies on standby for animal burial, as a large number of animal deaths occur during the monsoon season. The decision has been taken on the backdrop of Ambil Odha flood incident in 2019 when 66 cattle died in the flashflood triggered by heavy rains in Katraj and other parts of South Pune. It was for the first time such a large number of cattle deaths were reported in a single day. At the time, PMC faced a major problem to dispose of the remains. PMC has taken the decision to have a standby arrangement for dead animal disposal this monsoon . PMC has privatised the incineration facility located near Naidu hospital for disposal of dead animals along with all biological. At present, the PMC disposes of two large cattle animals and seven to eight small animals per day. One large cattle animal takes almost six hours to incinerate along with one small animal. The PMC faces a problem during monsoon to incinerate big animals. Dr Narendra Wagh, head of veterinary section of PMC health department said, “Right now, we have an agency to dispose of the animals. During the Ambil odha flood incident, we had to face the problem of transportation and disposal of large cattle animals in monsoon season. So, we have decided to set up a standby arrangement for disposal of large cattle animals in the monsoon season.” The contractor will identify a place for the burial of large animals along with pick up and transport and also deliver to the incineration facility. According to statistics, there are around 5,000 large cattle animals (buffalos and cows) in almost 500 cattle sheds which are located around city areas. The PMC has allotted 57 hectares of land to displace all cattle sheds in Mundhwa area. Of that, 90 cattle sheds were relocated in Mundhwa area. The PMC has planned to relocate more than 100 sheds at the end of this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-will-have-private-agencies-on-standby-for-dead-animal-disposal-this-monsoon-season-101622477149008.html
31-05-2021||Pune||Courses linked to specific industries now on offer at SPPU||The Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) will soon begin professional courses with job opportunities to students. The university has decided to tie up with industries in Nashik and Ahmednagar. The initiative will benefit students after graduating in further career growth. There are a large of grape producers and vineyards producing wine in Nashik, while cooperative and sugar factories are there in Ahmednagar district. Taking advantage of these industrial sectors, SPPU is now preparing job-centric courses for students. The process of starting these courses has already begun at the SPPU’s sub-centres in both these districts. “Nashik is one of the major producers of grapes in the country due to which several wineries have come up here. Even the Paithani sarees at Yewala are famous, accordingly skilled based courses to make such sarees will be started. Also, there are some tribal areas in Nashik where honey and medicinal trees are found, this will also be included in the new courses,” said SPPU vice chancellor Nitin Karmalkar. “There is a legacy of cooperative and sugar factories from decades in the Ahmednagar district. Along with those, paper factories, water management companies and bio diesel are some of the important sectors. Accordingly, small courses will be made in these sectors, and they will be submitted to sub centres. After which they will be produced before the management council and after its approvals by January these courses will actually start,” added Karmalkar. There are around 330 colleges and educational institutions in Nashik and Ahmednagar district which are affiliated to SPPU. It includes Arts, Commerce and Science colleges, Engineering, Pharmacy, Management and other colleges. The SPPU has decided to start diploma courses related to industrial sectors in these districts so that job opportunities for students will increase. These courses will be from four months to one year duration. Students are happy with the decision taken by SPPU, Bhushan Vyawahare a second-year commerce student from Nashik said, “Doing plain graduation in commerce won’t be enough for me to get a good job, if I pursue these new industrial based courses, it is certainly beneficial for my career.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/courses-linked-to-specific-industries-now-on-offer-at-sppu-101622477089043.html
31-05-2021||Pune||Nepal national arrested for trying to break open ATM||A Nepal national was arrested for trying to break open an ATM in Wakad area of Pimpri-Chinchwad in the small hours of Sunday. The man was identified as Nandu Karam Thapa (35), a man believed to be homeless in Pune and a native of Nepal who settled in Vinayakgaon in Assam, according to the police. “He is a drunkard who is living on the streets. He tried to open the machine by trying to break it with his hands. He managed to make a few dents and then left. The bank official from Mumbai got an alert and called the control room and the call was assigned to us,” said hawaldar Shankar Sakharam Uttekar of Hinjewadi police station who is investigating the case. Thapa tried to open the ATM in Bhumkar chowk and left the kiosk before he started walking around in the same area and was caught by the police. A case under Sections 380 (theft in dwelling house, etc.), 511 (attempting to commit offences punishable with imprisonment), and 461 (dishonestly breaking open receptacle containing property) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Hinjewadi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/nepal-national-arrested-for-trying-to-break-open-atm-101622477029107.html
31-05-2021||Pune||Curbs extended in rural parts of Pune till June 15||Pune district collector Rajesh Deshmukh issued an order extending the restrictions in the rest of the district, except for the limits of Pune Municipal Corporation and Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation. The curbs in rural parts and cantonment areas have been extended till 7 am on June 15. The essential shops will be permitted to remain open from 7am-11am on all days. “The average positivity rate in rural areas is around 11%-12%. So, as per the guidelines issued by the state government restrictions have been extended. A review will be taken after 10 days. The timings of essential shops will be the same. Restrictions mentioned in the earlier orders will continue. Considering the pre monsoon agriculture work, shops related to this sector will be permitted to remain open from 7 am-2 pm. Rest of the essential shops will remain open till 11am,” said Deshmukh.As the positivity rate in PMC and PCMC limits slipped below 10%, the civic bodies issued orders on Monday to ease some curbs. But the rural parts are still recording a higher caseload than the civic limits of PMC and PCMC. The positivity rate in PMC and PCMC limits for the duration of May 23-May 29 was 7.55% and 8.61% respectively. Whereas the collective positivity rate for the same duration in rural areas, municipal councils and cantonment areas stood at 15.31%. The collective positivity rate for this duration was 10.89%. As per the already imposed restrictions only essential shops will be allowed to remain open for specific timings and nonessential shops will remain closed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/curbs-extended-in-rural-parts-of-pune-till-june-15-101622476969571.html
31-05-2021||Pune||Burglars steal cash, valuables, CCTV in Kondhwa||Night burglars hit three locked houses, stole a car number plate from a shop-owner, and fled with the CCTV camera in a locality in Kondhwa on Saturday night. Two houses and a shop in a locality of Kondhwa were hit by night-time burglars on Saturday night. One of the houses is located in a residential building called NK Heights, the second and third in Sai Krushna Society while the shop was identified as Mulani Stores, all in Yevalewadi area of Kondhwa. A complaint in the matter was lodged by Sachin Pawar (36), a resident of NK Heights building. Cash worth ₹12,000 and gold jewellery, collectively worth ₹27,000, was stolen from his house, according to the complaint. The theft was committed after the main door lock was broken open while the house was locked, according to the police. In the second incident, the locked third-floor house of a woman named Swati Mane (39) in Sai Krushna Society was stolen from for cash worth ₹50,000 and jewellery, collectively worth ₹83,000, according to the police. The same accused is believed to have hit the first-floor house in the same building. The house belonged to the mother of Narpat Gowda. The residents claim that multiple pieces of gold and silver jewellery and some cash were stolen from their house by entering it with the same method. However, the total worth of their stolen belongings could not be verified immediately. After stealing from the two houses in Krushna Society, the accused also pulled out the DVR of the CCTV in the parking of the building before fleeing. In the fourth incident, the car number plate of a shop-owner who sleeps in her shop was stolen. The Swift car parked in the designated space of the shop owner when the plate was stolen, according to her complaint. The plate reported stolen was MH12NQ1760. “The man assigned to keep track of the CCTV footage was not present that night. The DVR from one building was stolen. So now we are looking at CCTV from surrounding areas,” said police sub inspector Sachin Khetmalas of Kondhwa police station who registered the case. A case under Sections 454 (lurking house-trespass or housebreaking in order to commit offence punishable with imprisonment), 457 (lurking house-trespass or housebreaking by night), 380 (theft in dwelling house etc), and 379 of Indian Penal Code was registered at Kondhwa police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/burglars-steal-cash-valuables-cctv-in-kondhwa-101622476969030.html
31-05-2021||Bhopal||Thunderstorm likely in 5 districts of Madhya Pradesh, says IMD||India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Monday issued an orange alert forecast of a very likely thunderstorm with hail and wind gusting to 30-40 kmph for five districts of Madhya Pradesh.A yellow alert of a very likely thunderstorm with wind speed up to 30-40 kmph was sounded for isolated places in eight divisions including Bhopal, Jabalpur and Gwalior.The forecast is valid until Tuesday morning, the Met department said.In the last 24 hours, parts of Madhya Pradesh, including Bhopal, Indore, Gwalior and Hoshangabad divisions witnessed showers. Bhopal city received 5 cms of rainfall."A trough line from Punjab to North MP has caused moisture incursion causing showers," said PK Saha, a senior meteorologist with IMD's Bhopal office.The highest maximum temperature of 42 degree Celsius was recorded in Gwalior, the IMD said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/thunderstorm-likely-in-5-districts-of-madhya-pradesh-says-imd-101622476379777.html
31-05-2021||Pune||Talegaon Dabhade municipal council chief booked for corruption||Two senior officers, including the head of Talegaon Dabhade municipal council were found by the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) Pune demanding a bribe of ₹9 lakh from a government contractor for clearing his bills on Monday. The two were identified as Sham Lakshmanrao Poshetty (44), chief officer of Talegaon Dabhade municipal council and Vishal Ankush Mind (33), garden supervisor of Talegaon Dabhade municipal council. The claims made by the complainant contractor were checked for dates - May 6, May 7, May 17, and May 21. After confirmation, the ACB decided to register a case. The complainant contractor’s company had won a work contract from the municipal council and after completion he had submitted bills for payment. However, the garden supervisor, whose approval was required for clearing of the said bills, asked for a bribe. Mind told the complainant that the bribe was for Poshetty. The ACB officials also found that Poshetty was aware of the demand and encouraged it, according to a statement issued by ACB. Accordingly, a case under Sections7 and 12 of Prevention of Corruption Act was registered at Talegaon Dabhade police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/talegaon-dabhade-municipal-council-chief-booked-for-corruption-101622476910209.html
31-05-2021||Other||5 trapped in Meghalaya mine after explosion, supervisor threatened survivors||At least five labourers, suspected to be from Cachar district of Assam, are feared trapped in yet another accident in the infamous coal mines of Meghalaya’s East Jaiñtia Hills district, officials said. “Personnel from police, fire and emergency services, NDRF, district disaster management authority and locals are engaged in the rescue operations. I am constantly monitoring the progress,” East Jaiñtia Hills deputy commissioner E Kharmalki told HT over the phone.He told HT that upon receiving information from the SP, an alert was sounded and emergency measures were activated. The miners are trapped about 500 feet below the surface. Water from recent rains would probably have percolated into the mine identified to be located at Sutnga interior under Umpleng Anti-Dacoity camp, subsequently flooding it. Sutnga is a little less than 100 kilometres from the state capital Shillong.A press communiqué released Monday evening by the East Jaiñtia Hills Superintendent of Police Jagpal Singh Dhanoa stated that according to eyewitnesses, five people got trapped in the sudden rush of water into the mine due to the sudden explosion of dynamite.“Within no time the mine was inundated. The main culprit as per the eyewitnesses is Sordar by name of Shri Nizam Ali who did nothing to rescue the trapped labourers. Rather Ali threatened the survivors with dire consequences and chased them away from the mining site,” Dhanoa said.He added that an FIR has been registered at Khliehriat Police Station under the MMDR Act, the Disaster Management Act and sections of the Indian Penal Code.“The survivors are being looked after by police to ensure their security. Further, an investigation is on and no stone is being left unturned to arrest the Sordar of the mine,” the district police chief assured.The missing persons have been identified as Shyamcharan Debbarma from Tripura, Abdul Karim from Boko, Abdul Kalam from Barpeta and two unidentified persons from Silchar. The matter came to the fore after one Karimul Bari claimed in a tweet that a neighbour of his was amongst the labourers working in a coal mine in Meghalaya who got trapped. Bari accused the administration of “not taking any proper action” to recover the bodies for 2 days. Speaking to HT, IGP (Eastern Range) MK Dkhar said that rescue efforts at the accident site have begun and that his colleague is in Khliehriat the district headquarters to monitor operations.“The district administration has already requisitioned the resources and manpower from the line departments and activity has already commenced on the ground… let’s hope for the best,” Dkhar said.IGP (Law and Order) Mukesh Kumar Singh said he was camping near the place of occurrence and monitoring the situation. “Work is going on in full swing and we hope to get some results soon but we cannot say for certain how long these operations will last, we will continue to do our duty,” Singh HT.Earlier, Superintendent of Cachar district in Assam, Nimbalkar Vaibhav Chandrakant, said, “We have shared the information with our neighbouring state’s Superintendent of Police from East Jaintia Hills. “We have requested the East Jaintia Hills SP to update us on the matter. If any labourers from Assam are trapped, we will be informed immediately, this was assured from our neighbouring state SP.”Kharmalki has ordered a magisterial inquiry by MS Sangma, executive magistrate of the district. He has been given 15 days from the day of receiving the order “to ascertain the facts and circumstances of the case leading to the mining incident, identify the owner of the miners responsible for illegal mining”, and also submit his findings and recommendations.A top official at the state secretariat told HT that the alleged owner has been picked up but he tested positive for Covid-19 and hence kept in an isolation centre under watch. The alleged Sordar (manager of the mine) is absconding and police have issued a BOLO (Be on the lookout) for his arrest.Such tragic mishaps, mostly man-made, are not new to this part of Meghalaya. On January 21, six labourers lost their lives when they plummeted 170 feet to their death at a coal mine in Sorkari Dienshanlalu village.Apparently, the crane they were using to extract coal malfunctioned, sending the six men hurtling into a tunnel dug up for coal extraction, but there has been no closure to the case as yet. It is also not known yet if the coal mine in question was abandoned or legal. The owner has also not been officially identified.On December 13 2018, 15 miners died when a “rat-hole” mine at Ksan village in the same district got flooded by water from the Lyteiñ river. In the wake of the accident, the National Green Tribunal (NGT) fined the state government ₹100 crore for allowing illegal coal mining.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/5-trapped-in-meghalaya-mine-after-explosion-supervisor-threatened-survivors-101622476070095.html
31-05-2021||Pune||Pace of development slows down due to economic hardships||Four members of parliament from Pune , Shirur, Maval and Baramati who have completed two years in office are finding a big challenge in mitigating economic depression due to the Covid-19 crisis prevalent in the state. Baramati MP has made it clear in public that economic crisis was a major challenge before her and stated that all professions have been hit hard by the global crisis with very large ramifications on the economy. Besides making Baramati a Covid-19 free constituency, she is also working towards reduction of malnutrition and illnesses like TB, malaria and dengue. When contacted, Sule’s secretary said that she was unavailable for a comment due to family commitments. At the same time, MP Dr Amol Kolhe who represents Shirur constituency has been making rounds of his entire constituency and helping citizens in trouble. The MP’s office claimed that he had helped more than 100 patients who required oxygen cylinders, Remdesivir injection and other medical assistance during the current crisis. Kolhe is currently in discussion with the state government to construct a multi-speciality hospital for the district and has held a number of meetings in the Mantralaya and also with the district collectorate. The office heads of all the members of parliament said that although work was on, but Covid-19 outbreak had affected the pace of work of the elected representatives due to the restrictions. Dr Amol Kolhe did not respond to calls and messages while MP Girish Bapat’s office informed that he was attending official meetings. City Congress leader Arvind Shinde said, “Lockdown began in March and the MP did not step out for many days for Covid work. The BJP was involved only in tender scheme rather than serving people during these critical times as health was nowhere given priority. It was his duty to ensure that citizens were provided relief. Not one ventilator from the PM care fund is in working condition and lying unattended at the hospital.” Shrirang Barne, who is serving his second term as the member of parliament from Maval constituency has been vocal regarding private hospitals charging extra money to Covid patients. Barne who is out of the city at present helped Sujit Loke, son of a vegetable vendor to get his father’s body from a private hospital that was not releasing it due to an unpaid bill. Barne visited the Thergaon area along with the police officials. Currently, Barne is also pushing the centre in allowing Hindustan Antibiotics to produce Covid-19 vaccines and the Remdesivir injection. Barne was not available for comment as he was out of the city while Parth Pawar also refused to comment. Barne received 7,20,663 votes over his Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) candidate Parth Pawar who managed to get 5,04,750 votes. The Maval Lok Sabha constituency comprises of Karjat Uran, Maval, Chinchwad and Pimpri. “I like to keep myself away from making any comment” said Shivajirao Adhalrao Patil who had won thrice before losing to Kolhe in 2019 with the margin of 58,000 votes. Kolhe secured 6,35,830 votes while Adhalrao-Patil managed 5,77,347 votes. The Shirur Lok Sabha constituency comprises of six assembly segments – Junnar, Ambegaon, Khed, Alandi, Shirur, Bhosari and Hadapsar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pace-of-development-slows-down-due-to-economic-hardships-101622475949021.html
31-05-2021||Pune||Pune district reports 1,045 fresh Covid cases, nine deaths||Pune: On Monday, the state health department reported a little over 1,000 new Covid cases in the district in the last 24 hours. With 1,045 new infections, Pune district’s progressive count reached 1.017 million, of which 0.968 million have recovered, 12,568 declared dead and 36,563 are active cases undergoing treatment in hospitals or home isolation. On Monday, Pune rural reported 621 new Covid-19 cases which took the progressive count to 288,979 and with four deaths the death toll went to 4,023. Pune city reported 194 new cases which took the progressive count to 484,507 and with five more deaths the toll went up to 6,764 while PCMC reported 230 new Covid cases and the progressive count went up to 243,668. With no more deaths the toll stood at 1,720 The state reported that 33,000 patients were discharged on Monday and totally 5,395,370 Covid patients were discharged after recovery. The recovery rate in the state is 93.88%. Also 15,077 new cases and 184 Covid deaths were reported in the state on Monday. The case fatality rate in the state is 1.66%. Of 35,055,054 laboratory samples 5,746,892 have been tested positive (16.39%) for Covid until Monday. Currently, 1,870,304 people are in home quarantine and 10,743 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-reports-1-045-fresh-covid-cases-nine-deaths-101622475049040.html
31-05-2021||Pune||BJP MLA Mahesh Landge booked for flouting Covid rules at daughter’s pre-wedding function||PUNE: Mahesh Landge, legislator from Pimpri-Chinchwad and member of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), and over 50 others were booked for violating Covid regulations after a video of them dancing at his daughter’s pre-wedding function surfaced online. Among the others booked in the case are his brother Sachin Landge, Ajit Saste, Kundan Gaikwad, Rahul Landge, Datta Gavhane, Gopi Krushna Dhavade, Sunil Lande, Nitin Godse, and Prajyot Fuge, along with 40-50 others, said senior inspector Shankar Awtade of Bhosari police station. A complaint was lodged by Suresh Nana Waghmore (32) working at the Bhosari police station. The video was shot between 6:30pm and 9:30pm on Sunday in the vicinity of Landge’s house in Landgeali area of Bhosari. The Covid regulations set by the state government and the district collector do not allow for more than 50 people in attendance at a wedding. Social distancing among guests is also required as per the rules. However, the video shows both the rules flouted at the event. A case under Section 51 of National Disaster Management Act, 2005; Section 11 of Maharashtra Covid-19 Regulation, 2020; Sections 188, 269, and 34 of Indian PEnal Code and Sections 37(1)(3)with135 of Maharashtra Police Act was registered at Bhosari police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/bjp-mla-mahesh-landge-booked-for-flouting-covid-rules-at-daughter-s-pre-wedding-function-101622474688861.html
31-05-2021||Ranchi||World No Tobacco Day: Jharkhand government imposes ban on 11 brands||On ‘World No Tobacco Day’ the Jharkhand government extended a previously imposed ban on manufacture, storage, distribution, and sale of 11 brands of packaged and unpackaged pan masala in the state. Monday’s order extended an order imposed on May, 2020, in the interest of public health."The notification prohibits the manufacture, storage, distribution or sale of 11 brands of pan masala containing magnesium carbonate as an ingredient, packaged or unpackaged,” the state government said in a statement.The pan masala brands listed in the government order are Pan Parag, Shikhar, Rajnigandha, Dilruba, Rajniwas, Musafir, Madhu, Bimal, Bahar, Sehrat and Pan Parag Premium."Any violation of this order shall entail strict action under the appropriate sections of the Food Safety and Standards Act, 2006 and the Indian Penal Code," the order said.The state government had imposed a ban on all tobacco products on May 22 of last year to prevent spitting in public in a bid to avoid a spread of Covid-19. Experts around the globe have held the pandemic responsible for aiding tobacco addiction around the world, reported ANI on Monday.The World Health Organization (WHO) observes ‘World No Tobacco Day’ on May 31 of every year. Director-General of WHO, Dr Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, said in a statement on Saturday that smoking tobacco raises the risk of developing severe disease and death from Covid-19 by upto 50 per cent. The United Nations body is running a 'Commit to Quit' tobacco campaign this year and has urged governments all over the world to provide citizens with information, tools, and support they need in order to quit tobacco.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/world-no-tobacco-day-jharkhand-government-imposes-ban-on-11-brands-101622474462373.html
31-05-2021||Pune||Pune traders happy to restart shops, claim decision was delayed||Pune: The Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC) decision to reopen non-essential shops from Tuesday has brought some relief to traders and shop owners. At a meeting held between PMC officials and Federation of Trade Association of Pune (FTAP) on Monday, it was decided to restart shops between 7 am and 2 pm from Monday to Friday. “After almost a two-month gap, we will restart our shops and are hopeful that these restrictions will not happen again. We have suffered huge losses but agreed to keep our shops closed for public safety,” said Fatechand Ranka, president of FTAP. “We had a positive discussion today with PMC officials about restarting shops in the city. All traders and shop owners will follow Covid protocols strictly,” he said. There are more than 25,000 shop owners and traders in Pune who faced economic losses due to lockdown. One of them is Kushal Das, owner of a garment shop. “I had to borrow money from a family member to pay the rent of shop and also monthly EMI for housing loan. The second lockdown has drastically impacted our lives and the state government should not impose it again. We are glad that now we are allowed to reopen shops,” Das said. Nitesh Chopada, secretary, Laxmi road Ganpati chowk traders association said, “The decision taken today by PMC and state government was a bit late. We have to again start business from scratch and recovery of our two-month loss will take another year.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-traders-happy-to-restart-shops-claim-decision-was-delayed-101622474328937.html
31-05-2021||Other||J’khand registers 65% drop in covid cases in 2nd fortnight of May, active cases dips below 10K-mark after two months||Bedanti Saranbedanti.saran@hindustantimes.comRanchi: Jharkhand registered a significant drop of 65% in growth of Covid-19 cases in the second fortnight of this month even as the active cases in the state dipped below 10,000-mark after a haitus of almost two months.While the state reported 76,613 cases in the first fortnight of this month in between May 1-14, it discovered only 26,919 cases during May 15-30 registering a drop of 65%.The disease’s growth trajectory, which had taken a northward trend in early April when the pandemic’s second wave hit the state, attained the peak between mid April to mid May. It is now showing a fast declining trend.Jharkhand, in its last two months of turbulent phase, had discovered over 2 lakh cases and 3800 deaths.In the first fortnight of April, the state reported 23,591 cases after testing 373,638 samples with positivity rate (number of positive cases per 100 samples tested) stood at 6.31%. It registered 179 deaths during this period.However, testing was ramped up in the second fortnight (April 15-30) and 85,691 cases were discovered after testing 665,227 samples. As many as 1378 deaths were also reported during this period. The spread of the disease was maximum during this fortnight as positivity rate stood at 12.88%.The pandemic attained its peak during this period as daily detection of new cases and deaths was more than 5000 and 100 respectively. The entire health machinery became overstressed forcing the government to take recourse of lockdown to contain the disease’s spread.Even after imposition of lockdown on April 22, cases kept coming in large numbers till further stricter measures were taken.The first fortnight of May, however, saw an almost plateaued growth trajectory with slight decline in positivity rate. As many as 76,613 cases were discovered after testing 718,592 samples during this period with positivity rate stood at 10.66%. The real impact of the lockdown could be witnessed in May’s second fortnight when cases started receding and growth trajectory bending steep southward. Recovery rate too increased during this period and on May 30, the state’s active cases came down to 9906 from its peak of 61,195 cases on May 8.The state heaved a sigh of relief during this period as the disease’s positivity rate dipped to as low as 3.38% as only 26,919 new cases were discovered after testing 794,629 samples, the highest ever testing in a fortnight.Considering the improved scenario, the government is now mulling to go for unlock as chief minister Hemant Soren on Monday sought public opinion in this regard.According to health experts, the government can go for unlock but in phased manner.Dr. Dewesh Kumar, assistant professor of department of preventive and social medicine, RIMS, said, “This is now the end of pandemic’s second wave. But, we should not sit relaxed as the next couple of months (June-July) will provide a cushion for robust preparation for the third wave, if it comes. Besides, looking into the seasonality factor of the virus, we can presume that the next surge would come in August-September. We had seen this during the same period last year.”He further said, “Lockdown should be lifted in a phased manner and not all of a sudden.”According to health department’s covid-19 bulletin of May 30, the state has so far reported 336,943 cases including 322,060 recoveries, 9,906 active cases and 4,977 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jkhand-registers-65-drop-in-covid-cases-in-2nd-fortnight-of-may-active-cases-dips-below-10k-mark-after-two-months-101622473968903.html
31-05-2021||Ranchi||Restrictions may ease post June 3, CM seeks suggestions for Unlock-1||After over five weeks of lockdown-like restrictions across the state in wake of ongoing second wave of Covid-19 pandemic, residents can expect some relaxation as chief minister Hemant Soren on Monday sought people’s opinion on opening up of economic activities underlining that the state goverment was now also focusing on livelihood besides saving people’s lives. Taking to social media platform Twitter on Monday, chief minister Hemant Soren said, “Friends, how should the unlock-1 be like? We have been able to control the second wave with your help duri g the Swasthya Suraksha Saptah. In this battle for life and livelihood, now our focus is on livelihood. So please send your suggestions about how unlock-1 should actually be.” Reservations in varying measures were introduced in the state from April 22, rechristened as Swasthya Suraksha Sapthah (lockdown), as the state started witnessing a huge jump in daily positive cases. From May 16, stricter measures were introduced, including ban on interdistrict and interstate public transport, minimum attendance at social functions like marriage and cremations, besides making it mandatory for every vehicle owner to have an e-pass for travel except emergency economic activities. The restrictions will be in place till June 3. Following the CM’s tweet, several suggestions started pouring, both from ruling parties as well as Opposition, besides general people on social media. Former chief minister and BJP vice president Raghubar Das suggested opening of shops such as stationery, shoes, garment shops and salons on roster basis. “Similar to hardware and building material shops, shops under these categories could also be allowed to open, atleast for two days in a week. The government can categorise them under different groups and be allowed to work on rotation basis for 2-3 days in a week,” said Das. Jharkhand spokesperson Alok Dubey said state unit chief and finance minister Rameshwar Oraon discussed the possibilities and the party was of the view that the state needs to tread cautiously and balance life and livelihood as the danger is still not over. “We have been able to contain the spread but threat still prevails so there is need to be cautious. However, we also need to think to livelihood as well. Till now few shops under essential category are allowed to open till 2 pm. Shops under other categories could also be allowed to open. The timings for ships could also be extended till 6pm from the current cut off of 2pm,” added Dubey. Former president of Jharkhand chamber or commerce and industry Kunal Ajmani suggested that the state could give relaxation from getting e-paas to those who have taken movie vaccine and their certificates could be considered as e-paas for travel. “Also commercial and industrial units who get all of their employees vaccinated can be allowed to function,” added Ajmani.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/restrictions-may-ease-post-june-3-cm-seeks-suggestions-for-unlock1-101622473908896.html
31-05-2021||Patna||Two labourers die while cleaning sewer in Patna||Two labourers working with L & T Construction company under the Namami Ganga project died after inhaling toxic gases while cleaning a sewer, near Beur jail in Patna on Monday. An eyewitness said, “The incident took place around 12.30 pm when one labourer entered the drain for cleaning the sewer and fell unconscious. Seeing no movement, another labourer went down to check on him. However, he also started feeling suffocated and fainted within a few minutes. In the meantime, the employees of L & T escaped from the spot. Soon, locals informed the police,” he added.On getting information, SHO of Beur police station Manish Kumar rushed to the spot and fished out the bodies with the help of JCB machine and sent them to PMCH for treatment where the doctors declared them brought dead. The L & T officers did not even identify the bodies of both labourers. Later, a man hailing from the same village identified the bodies as of Mohammad Idarish and Mohammad Iqbal, both residents of Murshidabad in West Bengal.SHO said, “Both the labourers were rescued from the 25-feet underground drain after a 45-minute operation. They died because of inhaling methane gas produced in the sewer.”He said, “Soon after the incident, supervisor and contractors escaped from the spot. The police are looking into the matter.”Meanwhile, Raman Kumar, MD of Buidco, executing the Beur project, did not respond to repeated calls and messages for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/two-labourers-die-while-cleaning-sewer-in-patna-101622473728941.html
31-05-2021||Other||4 kids, one of them Covid infected, die at DMCH||DarbhangaFour children have died in Bihar’s Darbhanga Medical College and Hospital (DMCH) over the last few days, including an infant who had tested positive for Covid-19, hospital authorities said on Monday.According to DMCH principal K N Sharma, all four children were experiencing breathlessness and had pneumonia-like symptoms. “They were in serious medical condition. They were experiencing breathlessness and had symptoms like pneumonia. The infant had tested positive for Covid. Others tested negative,” Sharma told ANI. The baby boy was admitted to the hospital around 6 am on Sunday. He was shifted to the DMCH, the largest hospital in north Bihar, from a private nursing home in Patna after testing positive for Covid-19.As his condition continued to deteriorate, he was shifted to an ICU ventilator bed in the hospital’s paediatric department and succumbed to the infection around 4:30 pm on Sunday. The body was handed over to the family while following Covid-19 protocol. In the second case, three siblings, Chandan, Pooja and Aarti, died after experiencing fever, breathlessness and body swelling. They were admitted to the hospital’s paediatric ward on May 28. Chandan and Pooja died on May 29, while Aarti passed away on May 30. All three had tested negative for Covid-19, but were anaemic and suffered from pneumonia.DMCH superintendent Dr Mani Bhushan Sharma told ANI over phone: “They were brought here in serious condition and had severe anaemia. For about 15 days, they were getting treatment here and there in the village. We tested them for Covid infection, but tests were negative.”The deaths come amid rising concerns that Covid-19 may affect children more seriously in the anticipated third wave. There are currently 18,378 active cases in Bihar, as per data from the union health ministry. As many as 6,82,166 recoveries and 5,104 deaths have been reported in the state so far. ANI||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/4-kids-one-of-them-covid-infected-die-at-dmch-101622473670393.html
31-05-2021||Other||Patna DM’s report exposes PMC claims in rain preparedness||PATNAThe Patna district administration has submitted a comprehensive report on the failure of the city’s drainage network to the urban development department (UDD) and sought its intervention to correct the flaws and prevent waterlogging, which threw the cit out of gear during the rain last week.The report, prepared by a team of officials led by an additional district magistrate rank officer and those of the Patna Municipal Corporation (PMC), contradicts the claims made by municipal commissioner Himanshu Sharma that the city’s drainage network was capable to keeping the city clean even it rained more than 100 mm in a day. Patna district magistrate Chandra Shekhar Singh, who has incidentally served as managing director of Bihar Urban Infrastructure Development Corporation (Buidco), said the report was sent to the PMC and Buidco —the two agencies responsible for maintaining and operating the city’s drainage system, as also the UDD on Sunday. “The circle wise team of officials was constituted for comprehensive study of the drainage system and apprise the authorities about issues to be resolved before the monsoon,” the DM said. The report points out that many important drains like Bakarganj Nala, Mandiri Nala and Serpentine Nala required fresh drive to clear filth and other solid wastes, as they were not removed properly during the routine cleaning operations. Regarding the recurring waterlogging near south-western end of Gandhi Maidan, the report stated that an old drain connecting Maurya Hotel to Ram Ghulam chowk was dead. “A high-powered committee set up to probe the 2019 waterlogging in Patna had recommended raising cemented wall along Saidpur Nala to prevent its frequent clogging due to dumping of solid wastes. The direction remains to be complied with. Mithapur sump could not be made functional as yet. The Buidco had launched construction of 7.50-km-long drain from Beur to Mithapur to carry drain water. Its completion target was 2020, but it’s not complete,” says the report. Acknowledging the issues in drainage system, deputy chief minister Tarkishore Prasad, who holds the urban development portfolio, said he had been regularly reviewing the drive to clean drains by holding virtual meetings with the department officials. “I got to know about the district administration’s report. Another review meeting has been proposed in the next couple of days. Suitable instructions will be issued to the officers concerned,” said Prasad. The deputy CM said it was because of regular monitoring of work that the PMC managed to clear the city of storm water during the recent cyclonic rains quite fast. “Still, there are some problem areas like NMCH, Kankarbagh, Kadam Kuan, Rajiv Nagar, etc, which required more attention,” said Prasad. PMC commissioner Himanshu Sharma and Buidco MD Raman Kumar could not be contacted despite several attempts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/patna-dm-s-report-exposes-pmc-claims-in-rain-preparedness-101622473669711.html
31-05-2021||Other||Muzaffarpur DM orders probe into data fudging on Covid tests||MuzaffarpurOn Thursday (May 27), Kundan Kumar (36), a resident of Khabra in Muzaffarpur, got a message on his mobile from the health department that he had tested negative for Covid-19 in the RT-PCR test. “I never went for testing. I am hale and hearty and didn’t develop any symptoms of Covid,” a bemused Kumar said.Kumar is not alone. At least 14 persons in Muzaffarpur have similarly received such messages without being tested.On Monday, district magistrate Pranav Kumar ordered a probe by a three-member committee into irregularities reported in Covid testing and vaccination programme in the district. The committee will be headed by additional district magistrate Rajesh Kumar. The other two members are civil surgeon and chief medical officer Dr S K Chaudhury and senior deputy collector Sarang Kumar Pandey.The probe follows after it was found that 62 mobile numbers mentioned during testing were not valid numbers while all 10 digits were shown as 0 in at least 14 cases. The irregularities surfaced when calls were made to some of the people whose cellphone numbers were mentioned in the data. It was found that most of the phone numbers were either wrong or not valid. Some were found switched off. According to health department officials, irregularities were found in 90,346 cases out of over 8.42 lakh samples collected.Similar fudging of data was reported at Jamui a few months back.DM Pranav Kumar said, “They have been asked to verify the data after randomly calling cellphone numbers of the beneficiaries. The employees found guilty of lapses will face action as per law.” Civil surgeon Dr Chaudhury has asked in-charges of all health centres to submit full details regarding collection of samples for tests, the reports and messages sent to the beneficiaries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/muzaffarpur-dm-orders-probe-into-data-fudging-on-covid-tests-101622473668864.html
31-05-2021||Other||Cycle girl Jyoti’s father dies of cardiac arrest||PATNAMohan Paswan, father of Jyoti Kumari, the 15-year-old girl who shot into national spotlight after she carried him on a bicycle for about 1,200 kilometres from Gurugram to Darbhanga during the Covid-19 nationwide lockdown last year, died of cardiac arrest at their village in Darbhanga district on Monday.Darbhanga district magistrate SM Tyagarajan confirmed Paswan died at his native Sirhulli village in Singhbara block of the district and said the block development officer had been sent to the village to visit the family. Paswan was an e-rickshaw driver in Gurugram. After the announcement of nationwide lockdown last year, both he and his daughter were stranded in the city and ran out of money. The father, whose one of the legs had suffered injuries, also needed treatment. Since no transport facility was available amid lockdown in May 2020, Kumari bought a bicycle and pedalled her way, carrying her father as pillion, from Gurugram to her native village Sirhulli, a distance they covered in 12 days.Jyoti Kumari’s feat drew worldwide admiration, including a tweet from Ivanka Trump, daughter of the then US president Donald Trump. Later, the Cycling Federation of India offered a training opportunity to Kumari but she turned down the offer, citing her priority for studies.In January this year, she was also selected as the brand ambassador for an anti-drug abuse programme in the state.She also received the Pradhan Mantri Rashtriya Bal Puraskar for showing sheer determination and courage, and had a virtual interaction with Prime minister Narendra Modi on January 25.She has also signed a film titled, Aatmanribhar, in which she will play herself.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cycle-girl-jyoti-s-father-dies-of-cardiac-arrest-101622473610395.html
31-05-2021||Pune||Non-essential shops to reopen, e-commerce facility resumes||Pune: Following the state government’s order to ease lockdown restrictions, Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) on Monday issued “Break the chain” orders for the city offering relaxations to non-essential shops in Pune. The latest order will come into force from Tuesday morning and will be in effect till June 10. As the number of Covid cases has fallen in the city and the positivity rate has gone below 10% which made the city eligible for ease in restrictions, PMC allowed standalone non-essential shops to operate between 7am and 2pm between Monday and Friday. The earlier order allowed only essential services shops to stay open from 7 am to 11am. The order has also allowed liquor shops to reopen till 2 pm on weekdays while delivery of products through e-commerce which was stopped for a brief time in the earlier order has also been permitted. The new order by PMC has also extended timings for essential shops, including vegetables, grocery, dairy products and non-veg products from 7am to 2pm for seven days of the week. Besides, Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad municipal corporations have also issued separate order offering relaxation for standalone non-essential shops between 7am and 2pm from Monday to Tuesday while extending timings for essential stores till 2pm from earlier 11am. The fresh order giving relaxations to non-essential shops has been a major respite for traders, who were insisting for easing of curbs. However, shops in malls and shopping centres will remain closed as per earlier orders while restaurants and bars will be allowed to provide only home delivery and parcel services without dine-in facility. The new order has also allowed private traffic movement till 3 pm post that traffic in only emergency cases and for airport and railway station with valid reasons will be allowed. “A complete curfew would be imposed after 3 pm and the earlier orders would be in place for those providing home services. The PMC order would be in place for the next ten days starting from June 1 7am and, following the review of the positivity rate at the time, a revised order would be put in place,” stated the order signed by civic chief Vikram Kumar. Pune mayor Murlidhar Mohol while addressing the media said, “In view of the drop in Covid cases in the city, the state empowered the local civic bodies and administrators to issue orders to ease restrictions where the positivity rate is below 10%. Accordingly, PMC has issued the order.” As per the order, banks will continue to function on all days while government offices, except those providing essential services and those working for Covid management, will function with 25% staff. Home delivery of essential and non-essential products would be allowed through e-commerce platforms. Shops selling agriculture related products and agriculture product market committee would function all days of the week from 7 am to 2 pm. Federation of Trade Association Pune (FTAP) has welcomed the decision of PMC to allow reopening of non-essential shops. “We assure Pune Municipal Corporation that all shop owners will follow Covid regulation norms while keeping shop open from 7am to 2pm,” said Mahendra Pitaliya, secretary, FTAP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/nonessential-shops-to-reopen-e-commerce-facility-resumes-101622473608842.html
31-05-2021||Other||Covid has DQ parked in Mumbai yard for 92nd birthday||PUNE The Deccan Queen express train completes 92 years of its existence on Tuesday, June 1. The DQ as it is colloquially referred to is not operational currently due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Currently the DQ “rack”, official parlance for the train, is standing at the Mazgaon railway yard in Mumbai.DQ has been a major means of commuting between Pune and Mumbai for the last 92 years. Due to poor occupancy this year, operations have been temporarily halted by the Central Railway division.“Every year we celebrate the DC yearly anniversary and I have been celebrating it for the last 67 years, even when I was 5-years-old. Due to Covid we are not able to celebrate its anniversary, but on June 1 a small cake-cutting ceremony will be done held at the Pune railway station for regular passengers of the DQ,” said Harsha Shah, president, Railway Pravasi Group.The DQ dining car has a capacity for 32 passengers and the train houses modern pantry and kitchen facilities, offering both vegetarian and non-vegetarian menus. Down the decades have been continuous changes to facilities and the increasing of coaches given the increasing demand from passengers. Currently, this train has a total seating capacity of 1,417. Another daily passenger on the DQ, Harish Jagtap said, “There are lots of memories connected to DQ as it is our daily mode of transport. We have a family in the train while travelling and now it feels like a tragedy that we cannot go to work in Mumbai by our beloved DQ.”Meanwhile, on Monday, Suresh Jain was appointed as station director, Pune railway station.Train facts Deccan Queen first ran from Pune to Mumbai on June 1, 1931Initially, it was a weekend train, but later, due to demand it was converted to a daily serviceFrom day one, it has been running on electricity, with diesel engines as the back-up||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid-has-dq-parked-in-mumbai-yard-for-92nd-birthday-101622473308920.html
31-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra records 15,077 Covid-19 cases; fresh infections below 20k for second straight day||Maharashtra continued its downward trajectory of daily cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), as the state added 15,077 fresh infections on Monday, the latest health department bulletin showed. With this, Maharashtra’s infection tally has risen to 5,746,892, according to the bulletin. Also on the day, 184 lives were lost due to Covid-19, as the western state’s related death toll rose to 95,344, the bulletin showed further.On Sunday, the state saw 18,600 new cases, making it the first time since March 16, that Maharashtra witnessed a single-day rise of less than 20,000 cases. A total of 17,864 people were found positive on March 16.Also Read | Maharashtra records 18,600 new Covid-19 cases, lowest in over 2 monthsMonday’s bulletin also showed that the latest positivity rate stood at 7.8% as the latest positive cases were out of 193,446 tests conducted to check for the infection. However, on Sunday, 252,623 tests were conducted, as the positivity rate was recorded at 7.36%, the lowest since 7.12% on February 22. As of May 31, 35,055,054 tests have been conducted in the state.In Mumbai, the state capital, a single-day rise of 666 was recorded, way lower than 1,062 on May 30. The city’s infection tally has thus increased to 705,288. However, 29 lives were lost on the day, as against 22 on Sunday, as Mumbai’s death toll rose to 14,826.Earlier in the day on Monday, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray expressed shock at “heavy” vehicular traffic in Mumbai, despite strict Covid-19 norms. “I was wondering if I said anything about restrictions being listed last night but I did not,” Thackeray said, referring to his address to the state on Sunday night, in which he announced that lockdown-like curbs in Maharashtra, in effect since mid-April, are being extended by 15 days from June 1.Also Read | Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray extends lockdown-like curbs in state by 15 days, pitches for Covid-free villagesThe chief minister, who inaugurated a trial run of two Metro lines in the city, also warned that stricter curbs might be imposed if people continue to be out on roads.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maha-sees-15-077-covid-cases-fresh-infections-below-20k-for-second-straight-day-101622468529720.html
31-05-2021||Pune||PMC to write to Centre on Covishield second dose time gap||Pune: Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) will write to the Centre to minimise the interval between two doses of Covishield for students going abroad for studies. The civic body plans to start the drive on Tuesday at Kamala Nehru Hospital, according to an order issued on Monday. Rubal Agarwal, PMC additional municipal commissioner, said, “The World Health Organisation (WHO) has recommended Covishield internationally. So, we will give Covishield to students planning to go abroad for studies. Regarding the 12-week vaccine for second dose, we will write to the central government to minimise the period for second dose.” Earlier, many had raised queries about the second dose as the existing order says that interval between two doses of Covishield should be minimum 84 days. Earlier on Saturday, Agarwal had said that many would want to report in late August-end or in September and so the gap between the two doses would not be a matter of concern. As per the latest order, the drive will be conducted on Tuesday and Wednesday between 10am and 5pm. Students have been asked to send documents related to visa and admission to PMC on email. “If needed we will increase the number of days for the special drive to accommodate all students,” Agarwal had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-to-write-to-centre-on-covishield-second-dose-time-gap-101622471868751.html
31-05-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka to vaccinate students, others going abroad to work from Tuesday||Vaccination for students going abroad for studies and those who need to go overseas to get employed will start here from Tuesday, Karnataka Deputy Chief Minister Dr C N Ashwath Narayan has said. "The vaccination programme for students going to foreign countries to pursue their studies and those who need to travel to get employed in other countries will be launched on Tuesday at 3 PM in the administrative block of the Bengaluru City University," Narayan, who heads the Covid-19 Task Force, said in a statement. He asked students willing to get inoculated to possess visas, admission receipts, or any such relevant documents. Certificates confirming the inoculation will be issued on the spot, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-to-vaccinate-students-others-going-abroad-to-work-from-tuesday-101622470700824.html
31-05-2021||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh extends ‘corona curfew’ till June 15 with certain relaxations: CM||Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said on Monday that the ongoing ‘corona curfew’ in the state has been extended till June 15 but certain relaxations will be given in order to revive the economy.Addressing the state virtually over the present Covid-19 situation, Chouhan said, “We have to protect ourselves from Covid-19 but we also have to start economic activities in order to ensure that businesses and construction work can run, the poor are able to feed themselves and labourers earn wages. Crisis management, irrespective of whichever level they belong to, have decided what activities will be allowed and restricted till June 15.”Also Read| Video of MP firm’s employees washing used PPE kits surfaces, probe onChouhan announced the list of restrictions which will continue throughout the state such as ban on all social, political, religious, sports, entertainment events etc. Educational institutions including coaching classes will remain closed along with shopping malls, cinema halls, gyms, auditoriums, swimming pools and picnic spots, he added. Not more than 10 people will be allowed to attend funerals and only 20 will be allowed to assemble for weddings.कोरोना कर्फ्यू अभी हम समाप्त नहीं कर रहे हैं। कोरोना कर्फ्यू 15 जून तक जारी रहेगा। लेकिन कोरोना कर्फ्यू में हम छूट दे रहे हैं। सुरक्षा भी और समृद्धि भी। अपनी सुरक्षा भी करनी है लेकिन आर्थिक गतिविधियाँ भी आरंभ करना है, ताकि व्यापार चल सके, निर्माण के काम चल सकें: सीएम श्री चौहान pic.twitter.com/K0VNfk5HWC“All types of industries will be opened, movement of raw materials and finished goods will be allowed. Hospital clinics, nursing homes, medical insurance companies, other health and medical services, veterinary hospitals, ration and grocery shops, pharmacies, dairies and milk shops, petrol and diesel pumps, fruit and vegetable shops will remain open,” the chief minister said in his address, adding that take-away services for restaurants will be allowed.Banks, ATMs, print and electronic media, plumbers, electricians, IT service providers, vaccination against Covid-19 and house help will also be allowed during the ‘corona curfew’ period, said Chouhan.Also Read| 3,000 junior doctors in MP go on strike amid Covid-19 pandemicMadhya Pradesh will be under ‘Janta Curfew’ from Saturday 10pm till Monday 6am while there will be a daily night curfew from 10pm to 6am, Chouhan said.The state has so far recorded 780,000 cases and 8,067 deaths due to Covid-19. On Monday, 1,205 new cases were added, the lowest in over two months, while 48 more people succumbed to the viral disease. The daily recoveries continued to outnumber the new cases.Even though Madhya Pradesh has gained control over the pandemic, it is grappling with an increase in cases of mucormycosis, commonly known as black fungus. The state government declared it as a notified disease on May 22 and currently there are over 750 people infected.Also Read| In MP, families that lose members to Covid-19 face challenges in getting death certificateChief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said on Monday that the state government is working in full swing towards treating patients of mucormycosis. “Earlier we were facing problems in procuring Amphotericin-B injections but now we are being ensured of their supply. We are also making arrangements to send the injections to private hospitals.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/madhya-pradesh-extends-corona-curfew-till-june-15-101622470843655.html
31-05-2021||Chandigarh||Covid-19 restrictions in Chandigarh extended till June 9||The Chandigarh administration on Monday extended the coronavirus-induced restrictions till the morning of June 9, but allowed more relaxations such as reopening of barbers and salons.It also extended the shop opening time by an hour. All shops will now be allowed to open from 9 am till 4 pm, from earlier till 3 pm."After detailed discussions, it was decided to continue the existing restrictions until 6 AM on 09/06/2021 (Wednesday),” according to an official release.The decision was taken in a Covid-19 review meeting chaired by Chandigarh Administrator and Punjab Governor V P Singh Badnore here.All sports facilities will be opened for sportspersons who can utilise the infrastructure by strictly following Covid protocol, according to the release.However, swimming pools and gyms will continue to remain closed.The administration also allowed reopening of barbers and salons in the city. Spa and massage centres will continue to remain closed.Night curfew in the city is in place from 6 pm till 5 am on weekdays. The weekend curfew starts at 6 pm on Friday and continues till 5 am on Monday.The city has been witnessing a decline in the number of fresh Covid-19 infections for several days.In the review meeting, the administrator expressed concern over the plight of the children who lost their parents to Covid-19.He directed that the school fees of all such children be waived and if any child needs accommodation in the administration's welfare home, it will be provided free of cost.He also directed the Social Welfare Secretary to prepare a comprehensive scheme in consultation with the sub-committee of the Administrator's Advisory Council so that the affected could be fully rehabilitated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid19-restrictions-in-chandigarh-extended-till-june-9-101622469733645.html
31-05-2021||Bangalore||20 districts in Karnataka report higher positivity rate than state average||At least 20 out of the 30 districts in Karnataka are above the state’s week-long average positivity rate of just nearly 16%, data shows, indicating the possibility of prolonging the ongoing lockdown in the southern state which continues to reel under the grip of the Covid-19 pandemic.In the week between May 23 and 29, Karnataka’s average positivity rate stood at 15.94% when compared to the state’s second-biggest city Mysuru, which has an average of 42.79%.Data from the state covid-19 war room shows that the seven-day average is 30.95% in Uttara Kannada, 30.28% in Kolar, 25.53% in Chikmagalur, 25.47% in Hassan and 25.22% in Koppal.The high rate of positivity has added to the challenges of the BS Yediyurappa-led state government which is yet to decide on the lockdown that is scheduled to end on June 7.“After the (May) fourth or fifth, we will talk to them (experts). We will observe the situation if it has calmed down and then make a decision,” Yediyurappa told reporters in Bengaluru on Monday.The positivity rate in Bengaluru is 9.72%, data shows, indicating a sharp decline in the power centre of the state. Bidar, a district that was one of the worst-impacted regions in the state along with Bengaluru and other places, has the lowest positivity rate at 2.02%, data shows.Meanwhile, the government-appointed technical advisory committee (TAC) submitted a report to Dr K Sudhakar, Karnataka’s minister for health, family welfare and medical education on Monday.Dr Sudarshan, the head of the TAC told Hindustan Times that the committee has submitted a “comprehensive report”. According to Sudhakar, the report has the recommendations of the TAC on the kind of restrictions and precautions required to be implemented across the state for the next 15-30 days.“After the lockdown, it has been possible to bring down the spread of the pandemic. The positivity rate which was around 40%-50% has come down to around 15%. In Mysuru and some other districts, the positivity rate has gone up. This has to come down further. But a decline does not mean that the second wave has ended,” Sudhakar said on Monday.He added that the report will be submitted to the chief minister on Tuesday after which the cabinet will also discuss the same and then a final decision will be taken.Despite the decline in the total number of cases, the number of fatalities in Karnataka has seen a sharp spike since the beginning of May which accounts for nearly half of all Covid-19 related deaths in the southern state.Experts said that death rates go up 15 days after a spike in infections since there is a lag period. However, they add that when the number of discharges is significantly higher than new infections as well a spike in the death rate, is a possible indicator of the slowing down of the pandemic.“It (Covid-19 crisis) is improving but the government is yet to decide regarding the lifting of the lockdown. Our recommendations have been given,” Dr Sudarshan said.He added that there will be some fine-tuning of the existing restrictions.The pandemic has cast a shadow over the discussion of life or livelihood. In cash-starved Karnataka, the chief minister has tried to keep most businesses open to help revive the fledgling economy. More so when it comes to Bengaluru, which contributes at least half of the state’s income and is home to at least a quarter of the state’s population.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/20-districts-in-karnataka-report-higher-positivity-rate-than-state-average-101622469889609.html
31-05-2021||Pune||Petrol price breaches ₹100/litre-mark in Pune following 16th rate hike in May||Pune: From Monday, petrol will cost ₹100.15/ litre in Pune, in the first instance of the auto fuel crossing ₹100-mark in the city. Petrol price has shot past Rs-100/litre mark in many cities of Maharashtra, including Mumbai, in the past week. Petrol’s price in Pune was hiked by ₹0.28/litre and diesel by ₹0.27/litre to reach ₹90.71/ litre. It was the 16th hike in fuel prices in May. The price of per litre of power petrol has reached ₹103.83 in the city, said Ali Daruwala, spokesperson, All India Petrol Dealers’ Association. The current rally in fuel prices began after a two-month break from May 4 following the announcement of results for assembly elections in four states and one Union territory on May 3. Petrol in Pune was then priced at ₹96.62 per litre and diesel at ₹86.32 per litre. The price of petrol and diesel has since risen by ₹3.83/litre and ₹4.42/litre respectively across the country. Petrol is now selling for more than ₹100/litre in several cities of Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Andhra Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh. Daruwala said, “Basic price is ₹36.11. Excise duty levied by the central government is ₹32.90. Tax collected by state governments on fuel is VAT and cess which is ₹17.25 and ₹10.12 respectively. Dealer margin is approximately ₹3.07 and transportation and other expenses constitute almost ₹0.70. There could be variation by a few paises.” Activists have been demanding that fuels be brought under GST so that the prices can be stabilised. “Common people are already under financial setback because of Covid pandemic and the lockdown. Increasing fuel prices have added to their misery. State and central governments should provide them relief in terms of taxes collected on fuels,” said Vivek Velankar, president, Sajag Nagrik Manch Pune. Transport associations have been demanding an intervention by the government to bring the diesel prices in control. “We have raised our demand with the union finance minister. Because of Covid curbs there are only 30% transportation activities which are being conducted. Passenger transport is very less. Most of the business operators in this sector have sustained major losses. The fuel prices have broken all the records. There should be immediate regulation of these prices,” said Baba Shinde, director (Maharashtra), All India Motor Transport Congress. Vivek Kondhalkar, a resident of the Ambegaon Budruk in Pune, said that the soaring fuel prices have made the lives of people difficult. “Those who need to step out of the houses for work even in these curbs are finding it difficult to afford the fuel rates. A substantial part of the salary is going into filling the fuel tank. I am surprised why no one is raising a voice against this,” said Kondhalkar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/petrol-price-breaches-rs-100-litre-mark-in-pune-following-16th-rate-hike-in-may-101622468268597.html
31-05-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka to purchase vaccines directly from manufacturing firms: Deputy CM||The Karnataka government has decided to purchase vaccines directly from manufacturing companies as the two firms which had submitted bids in response to global tender have not submitted the requisite documents, deputy chief minister C N Ashwath Narayan said on Monday."In response to the short term global tender floated on May 15, two distribution companies, one, the city-based (Bengaluru) and another Mumbai based, had submitted applications.But these had not annexed the required technical and supply ensuring documents.Also, there was no representation from these companies for the virtual meetings held," Narayan said.The process of communication has already begun directly with vaccine manufacturing companies, as the government is not in a position to wait, amid threats of possible third Covid-19 wave, the DCM, who is also the head of the state's Covid task force, said.In response to global tender floated by Karnataka to procure two crore Covid-19 vaccines, two suppliers had come forward to supply Russia's Sputnik V and Sputnik Light vaccines.Bulk MRO Industrial Supply Pvt Ltd from Mumbai had offered to supply Sputnik V vaccine, while Bengaluru-based Thulasi Systems said it could also provide the single-dose Sputnik Light, in response to a tender that closed on May 24.The government however has decided to reject bids made by two companies to supply Russia's Sputnik vaccines.Noting that the future of the lockdown in the state will be decided based on experts' opinions and facts and figures, Narayan said, however, certain activities need some relaxation to balance life and livelihood.The state is currently under lockdown till June 7.The DCM today inaugurated the vaccination programme for artistes of the Kannada film industry, his office said in a release.All the 15,000 artistes belonging to the Kannada film industry, who are above 18 years, will be inoculated, Narayan said, adding that he would discuss with the Chief Minister about providing ration kits to those in need among them.He also said applications for providing subsidised homes under the Chief Minister's Housing Scheme will be called shortly and artistes who are financially weak should make use of the scheme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-to-purchase-vaccines-directly-from-manufacturing-firms-deputy-cm-101622466629175.html
31-05-2021||Pune||Reservoir slab collapses at Parvati; no casualties||PUNE More than 60-year-old low-level reservoir slab collapsed at Janata Vasahat near Parvati water purification centre, on Sunday. There was no human casualty registered so far, said officials.Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has decided to repair and rebuild a reservoir and increased security to stop intruders in that area. The reservoir is surrounded by a dense population of Janata Vasahat. It has a capacity of 35 million litres and the corporation supplies water to entire old peth areas and some part of Sinhgad road.According to the local corporator of the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) Priya Gadade, she had registered complaints of the dilapidated condition of the reservoir.Aniruddha Pawaskar, superintendent engineer of the water supply department of PMC, said, “Due to the incident, there will be no effect on water supply in peth areas. The low-level reservoir is in good condition, only the slab has collapsed. We will repair the slab and reconstruct the reservoir step by step.”“As there were no alternative water reservoirs to divert water from these reservoirs to other tanks, we haven’t taken repair and reconstruction work till date,‘’ he explained.He further said, “Now, we have almost completed water tanks at Sinhagad road area near Rohan Kruitika. We have undertaken work to lay down a pipeline to connect to the Parvati water supply and purification centre. After completing work, we will store water and supply it to Sinhagad road and peth area. Then, we will repair and reconstruct the work of low-level reservoir at Janata Vasahat.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/reservoir-slab-collapses-at-parvati-no-casualties-101622467010256.html
31-05-2021||Other||After month-long Covid-19 lockdown, Kashmir witnesses gradual unlocking||Many shops and markets opened and public transport resumed, though gradually, in parts of Kashmir including in summer capital Srinagar on Monday after the month-long lockdown imposed to contain the surging Covid-19 infections last month was partially lifted.From early morning, shopkeepers started opening the shutters hesitantly and people trickled into the streets in ones and twos. There was initial reluctance to open among the traders and transporters as the news of unlocking took time to trickle down.At the Dalgate market, a cloth merchant was dusting the stacks of fabric piled in his ‘Lizee Dizee’ outlet.“I am opening exactly after a month. The past three years have been very difficult for the people, particularly traders,” the owner, properly masked, said.Jammu and Kashmir has witnessed lockdowns continuously for the past three years - first with the abrogation of Article 370 in 2019 and then following two Covid waves in 2020 and 2021.Some shopkeepers selling vegetables and meat were sprinkling water outside their shops to give their outlets a fresh feel. “There is still confusion about whether we should open or not,” another shop owner said.Not far away were a group of fisherwomen with their baskets filled with common carp. Nearby autos were neatly lined waiting for their first customers.“We pray to God to end our miseries now,” said an auto driver, properly masked, who initially thought the reporter was a customer.The month of May has been a devastating one with 112,857 Covid-19 infections and 1,588 deaths in J&K. The authorities imposed a Corona Curfew on April 29 and decided to lift it from Monday.In the 15 districts of the UT, including the twin capitals of Srinagar and Jammu, which have been placed under the orange category, outdoor bazaars and shopping areas will open on alternate days. In Kashmir’s five districts that have been put in the red category, Pulwama, Anantnag, Baramulla, Budgam and Kupwara, public transport and malls will remain shut. However, auto-rickshaws will follow an odd-even system.Meanwhile, private cars filled the streets of the city while one could also witness autos and three-wheelers lining their areas’ stands.Occasional public transport buses, including those run by the State Road Transport Corporation, were seen ferrying people – some fully masked and others with masks on their chin.At the Boulevard Road lining the Dal Lake, empty Shikaras or pleasure boats were waiting for customers on the ghats.“I rarely ferried any visitors during the lockdown. I hope that things will improve now. It is summer and we hope that tourists will come,” said a middle-aged Shikara rower Mohammad Sultan.A fruit seller in the old city was very agitated when asked about the impact of the lockdown.“Corona has not just devastated our health or economy but even our peace of mind,” he said as he installed his fruit card on the road.Authorities say that the Covid-19 wave has now started affecting the rural areas also. That is why the administration has been establishing five bedded Covid care centres in every Panchayat of the UT.Akhtar Rashid, a farmer from a remote village of the south district of Shopian was waiting on the roadside in the Srinagar city so that somebody would hire him for daily labour work.“I came to the city a few days ago as I anticipated that the lockdown would be lifted. I finished farming at my home place and now have some spare time. I want to earn some days of labour,” he said.With the gradual unlocking, the experts have urged people to take precautions.“Gradual opening of businesses may not lead to the rise in Covid cases irrespective of our concern. Cars on the road don’t spread viruses. Assembling in closed spaces like offices and marriage parties will surely do. Eating together in closed spaces is indeed a super spreader event. Ban parties,” said Dr Tariq Tramboo, an interventional pain specialist.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/after-month-long-covid-19-lockdown-kashmir-witnesses-gradual-unlocking-101622466173507.html
31-05-2021||Mumbai||Shocked to see heavy traffic in Mumbai, says Thackeray; warns of stricter curbs if it continues||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said on Monday that he was "shocked" to see heavy traffic on state capital Mumbai's roads as he went to inaugurate a section of the city's metro. He again warned that if this continues, the government will be bound to impose stricter curbs to check the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19)."I was shocked to see heavy vehicular traffic in Mumbai today. I was wondering if I said anything about restrictions being lifted last night but I did not. If this (traffic) continues, stricter curbs will have to be imposed," Thackeray was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.He was speaking in suburban Bandra at the inauguration of the trial run of two Metro lines and bhoomi pujan of the elevated road and vehicular underpass to connect the airport. The Metro corridor will be open for commercial run by October, according to Maharashtra government.When completed, these projects will put Mumbai on a faster pace amid the battle against the COVID-19 pandemic, Thackeray said.The chief minister on Sunday addressed the people of Maharashtra virtually where he announced the extension of ongoing lockdown in the state for 15 days (till June 15). It was scheduled to end at 7am on June 1.The state government also released a set of guidelines in the wake of lockdown extension."All essential shops that are currently allowed to operate between 7-11 am may be allowed to operate between 7 am to 2 pm," stated the order.Maharashtra reported 18,600 new cases of Covid-19, 402 deaths, and 22,532 discharges on Sunday. The active cases in the state are 2,71,801.The total number of cases in the state so far is 57,31,815 while the death toll is at 94,844.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/wondered-if-covid-19-curbs-lifted-uddhav-shocked-to-see-traffic-in-mumbai-101622465047911.html
31-05-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan recommends CBI probe in Kamlesh Prajapat encounter case||The Rajasthan government on Monday recommended CBI probe in Kamlesh Prajapat encounter case, said an official of home department. Prajapat, a resident of Barmer, was killed in a gunfight with the police on April 22 this year. Later, two videos related to Prajapat’s death went viral on social media, forcing people to question the police version of what led to the smuggler’s death. In the video, Prajapat did not fire at the police, even though the latter did. Soon after, leaders from both BJP and Congress claimed the exchange of fire was staged and demanded a CBI probe. Madan Prajapat, Congress MLA from Pachpadra assembly constituency in Barmer even threatened to resign if his probe demand was not fulfilled. Last Friday, Prajapat met chief minister Ashok Gehlot to reiterate his demand.Union minister and Barmer BJP MP Kailash Choudhary, Union minister and Jodhpur BJP MP Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, Leader of Opposition at Rajasthan assembly Rajendra Rathore, former MP and Congress leader Manvendra Singh were the other leaders demanding a CBI probe in the matter. Also Read | Rajasthan woman claims receiving two jabs of vaccine on same day, doctors denyLater, Prajapat said as the family of the deceased as well as community members had raised doubts over the police theory, a CBI probe was necessary. Notorious smuggler and wanted in a hit-and-run case, Kamlesh Prajapat, a resident of Cheeter Ka village in Barmer, was killed on April 22. Police claimed they had gone to catch him following a tip-off but he tried to escape while trying to kill a police personnel. In self defence, they were forced to fire back, which killed Prajapat. On May 20, the Rajasthan high court issued notices to the state government and police in connection with a petition seeking CBI probe into the alleged fake encounter. Justice Vinit Kumar Mathur had issued notices to the police personnel involved in the incident, and state home secretary, director general of police, SP Pali and SP Barmer, on the petition of Prajapat’s wife.The court has asked the government to respond to the notice within four weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-recommends-cbi-probe-in-kamlesh-prajapat-encounter-case-101622464729173.html
31-05-2021||Indore||Indore: DRI records largest-ever cannabis seizure of 3,092 kg, 3 arrested||The Directorate of Revenue Intelligence's (DRI) Indore Zonal Unit (IZU) has recorded its highest-ever seizure of cannabis - 3,092 kilograms worth about ₹6.19 crores.Three people were arrested in the case on Sunday.As per a statement, the police received information that the accused would transport a huge quantity of cannabis (ganja) concealed in a truck with cover cargo as mangoes.Accordingly, surveillance was mounted for the suspected vehicle and officers of DRI Units of Bhopal and Indore intercepted it. Packets containing ganja (cannabis) weighing a total of 3,092 were recovered and seized.All three persons have been arrested under Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, and produced before NDPS Court in Bhopal.Further investigation is in progress in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/indore-news/indore-dri-records-largest-ever-cannabis-seizure-of-3-092-kg-3-arrested-101622464270006.html
31-05-2021||Kolkata||Mamata Banerjee urges PM Modi to cancel bureaucrat’s Central deputation||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to withdraw the May 28 order that asked state chief secretary Alapan Bandopadhyay to report for duty at the North Block office of the department of training and personnel by 10am on May 31.Bandopadhyay did not travel to Delhi as Banerjee, in her letter, refused to release him. He attended a virtual meeting chaired by the chief minister and including district magistrates and departmental secretaries at 3pm to review relief work in districts hit by Cyclone Yaas last week.The five-page letter was sent amid heightened political and bureaucratic activity in the state. Bandopadhyay, who was to retire on Monday, was given a three-month extension by the Centre on May 24 after the state sent a formal request, saying his presence was needed to combat the Covid-19 pandemic.“I am shocked and stunned by the unilateral order…,” Banerjee wrote in the letter, asking if there was a correlation between the Centre’s sudden decision to transfer the bureaucrat and the meeting Modi held at Kalaikunda in West Midnapore on May 28 during his visit to assess cyclone damage. Though Banerjee met Modi briefly, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders and Union ministers alleged that she skipped the meeting and thereby insulted Modi. This triggered a political row.Also Read | Alapan Bandopahyay retires as Bengal chief secretary, to be CM Mamata’s advisorIn her letter, Banerjee not only questioned the legal validity of the order sent to Bandopadhyay but also mentioned in detail the circumstances under which she and the chief secretary met Modi at Kalaikunda where leader of the opposition Suvendu Adhikari was also present Adhikari, a former Trinamool Congress (TMC) leader, joined the BJP in December last year and defeated her in the assembly polls from Nandigram by 1,958 votes. In the letter, Banerjee referred to Adhikari as “local MLA.”“The unilateral ‘order’ comes without any prior consultation whatsoever with the government of West Bengal, without any volition/ option of the officer, without meeting any of the preconditions of the Indian Administrative Service (Cadre) Service Cadre Rules, 1954, and the other applicable laws under reference. The unilateral order/directive is legally untenable, historically unprecedented and wholly unconstitutional,” wrote Banerjee.“…..I presume that the said order of May 24, 2021, granting extension as chief secretary, issued after mutual written consultations and on the basis of the reasons deliberated upon during such consultation in accordance with due process stands and ought to stand in any case. In this regard, I seek your kind conformation in public interest and in the larger interests of the people of the state of West Bengal in these difficult times,” the chief minister wrote amid reports that her government was preparing for a legal battle with Delhi.“The All-India services themselves and the laws, including rules, framed for it, have federal cooperation as the cornerstone of its legal architectural. The whole aim of the all-India services has been to protect and give greater cohesion to the federal foundations of this Constitution. With unilateral and non-consultative orders being issued, the federal system is gravely endangered and severely undermined. ….. I presume and sincerely hope that you do not want to damage the federal amity. I also presume and sincerely hope that you do not want to destroy the morale of all the all-India service officers working in various states across the country,” wrote Banerjee.“I really do not understand what happened between your allowing extension to the officer as chief secretary as few days back on May 24, 2021 after Centre-State consultation to enable him to serve the state of West Bengal in these times, and your unilateral order (4 days later) issued in contradiction to the extension granted by you. The unilateral order also does not provide any details, reasons and/or particulars as to why central deputation of Sri Alapan Bandopadhyay IAS, chief secretary, West Bengal, is required suddenly by you only few days after granting an order of extension following due consultation process. Does it have something to do with our meeting at Kalaikunda on May 28, 20201?” wrote Banerjee.“I really and sincerely hope that this latest order is not related to my meeting with you at Kalaikunda. If that be the reason, it would be sad, unfortunate and would amount to sacrificing public interest at the altar of misplaced priorities,” the letter said.Narrating how she had to change the schedule of her visits to the cyclone-hit areas (in a chopper) and her efforts to meet the Prime Minister personally, Banerjee wrote, “I wanted to have a quiet word with you, and meeting between the Prime Minister and the chief minister as usual.”“You however revised the structure of the meeting to include a local MLA from your party and I am of the view (based on my knowledge of the affairs of the state for about 40 years) that he had no locus to be present in a PM-CM meeting. You had invited the honourable Governor and some Union Ministers also to the meeting, which I had not objected to (the honourable Governor had no role to play in this meeting either, as per our Constitutional scheme, as you also very well know, but I am refraining from commenting further in this regard as a gesture of propriety and courtesy), but an individual MLA, having no locus attending the meeting was unacceptable,” wrote Banerjee.The Union ministers she referred to are Dharmendra Pradhan and Debasree Chaudhuri, an MP from north Bengal.Incidentally, on May 27, Banerjee held a review meeting with her officers and said 134 river embankments built by the state irrigation and waterways department were washed away. She ordered an inquiry into the money spent by the department which was headed by Adhikari between 2018 and December before he resigned from the Cabinet and the TMC.“The chief secretary of my state had continually sent messages to a senior officer accompanying you for either getting this issue sorted out or to arrange a meeting between PM and CM before that meeting. Despite a series of messages, we got no positive result or response. My director (security) was also in touch with the SPG in this regard,” Banerjee wrote to Modi.“Finally, keeping aside legitimate reservations, I entered the meeting with the chief secretary of my state to hand over our report to you. You personally took the report from my hand and then I specifically and expressly sought permission from you for us to leave for Digha, our next cyclone-ravaged destination, where a meeting was due and participants were waiting. You expressly permitted us to take our leave. The matter must and ought to end there,” Banerjee wrote.“However, in the evening, suddenly, like a bolt from the blue, came the order seeking reversion of the chief secretary to Delhi, whereby the state is deprived of his experienced services, he superannuates on the day itself and the whole episode appears to be suggestive of arbitrariness, unseemly haste, in violation of the Constitutional scheme and the applicable laws….,” the letter said.Referring to the recent death of the chief secretary’s bother, Banerjee wrote that Bandopadhyay continued to prioritise his work for the state. “The decision seems to have been taken with mala fide intention and in hot haste,” she wrote.“Respected Sir, I therefore humbly request you to withdraw, recall, reconsider your decision and rescind the latest so-called order in larger public interest. The government of West Bengal cannot release, and is not releasing, its chief secretary at this critical hour, on the basis of our understanding that the earlier order of extension, issued after lawful consultation in accordance with applicable laws, remains operational and valid. The latest order is also clearly in violation of applicable laws and against public interest: it is in any case ab initio void,” Banerjee wrote.Starting that Bandopadhyay’s presence in Bengal was necessary for public interest the chief minister wrote that the “officer’s continued presence in my state in these difficult times was accepted to be vital and necessary by your Government even 4 days back.”“Since the Centre gave us a letter, we replied to it. It is a matter of courtesy. I cannot say anything more right now,” Banerjee said after her administrative meeting ended at 4pm.Explaining the letter, minister Chandrima Bhattacharya told the media that the entire episode seemed to be part of a political conspiracy. “We urge those in power not to play with the law,” she said.“The Union law minister commented that the chief secretary walked out of the Prime Minister’s meeting. How could he do that? He only accompanied the chief minister. He went there with her and left with her. How could the chief secretary independently walk out?” said Bhattacharya.Bengal BJP leaders refused to comment on the letter saying it was a government matter and had nothing to do with politics. “Adhikari said on Saturday that he was present at the PM’s meeting as leader of the opposition in Bengal. Congress leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury was also invited but he could not attend,” a senior state BJP leader said on condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/mamata-banerjee-urges-pm-modi-to-cancel-bureaucrat-s-central-deputation-101622464428924.html
31-05-2021||Bhopal||3,000 junior doctors in MP go on strike amid Covid-19 pandemic||Nearly 3,000 junior doctors in Madhya Pradesh on Monday struck work, barring Covid-19 duties, to press for their demands, including free treatment for them and their families if they contract the coronavirus infection.MP Junior Doctors Association president Arvind Meena told PTI that their members were abstaining from work at the Out Patient Departments (OPDs), the In-Patient Departments (IPDs) and other wards of various health care facilities."If the written orders (complying with the demands) are not released by this evening, then we would be compelled to withdraw from Covid-19 duties across the state from June 1," he said.They have demanded that beds for junior doctors serving Covid-19 patients be reserved in separate areas in case they contract the infection, he said."Treatment should be free for such doctors as well as their kin. We also need a hike in stipend," Meena said.He said their association comprises around 3,000 members from six medical colleges in the state.Earlier, the junior doctors went on a strike on May 6, but resumed a few hours later after the state government assured them that their demands would be met."While the state government promised 24 days ago that our demands would be met, nothing has moved since, Meena claimed and demanded that the government release a written order fulfilling their demands.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/3000-junior-doctors-in-mp-go-on-strike-amid-covid-19-pandemic-101622463865957.html
31-05-2021||Chandigarh||Techie from Andhra repatriated by Pakistan via Wagah border||A 32-year-old Indian software engineer, who was arrested for entering Pakistan illegally in 2019, was repatriated through the Attari-Wagah border on Monday. Software professional Prashant Vaindam, a resident of Rajam town in Srikakulam district of Andhra Pradesh, went missing in 2017. Vaindam along with one Vari Lal of Madhya Pradesh was arrested in Pakistan on November 14, 2019. Also read: Denmark helped US spy on European politicians, claims reportSources said the techie wanted to go to Switzerland to meet his online girlfriend but surfaced in Pakistan after having gone missing for two years. “Prashant was handed over to the Border Security Force (BSF) by Pakistani Rangers at the border at 3pm,” said a BSF official at the border. He will be quarantined for 14 days after his immigration formalities and Customs checks are done at the integrated check post (ICP) Attari, sources said. Soon after his arrest, a video clip of Vaindam was widely circulated on the internet. In the video, Vaindam was seen speaking in Telugu, informing his parents that he has been arrested in Pakistan. He tried to assure his parents that after completing formalities, he will be released. The sources said Vaindam, who was working as a software engineer in a Bengaluru-based company, fell in love with an Indian woman in Switzerland. He wanted to go to Switzerland but was caught in Pakistan while crossing the Cholistan desert in Bahawalpur district, the sources added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/techie-from-andhra-repatriated-by-pakistan-via-wagah-border-101622463769061.html
31-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi records 648 new Covid-19 cases; lowest single-day tally since March 19||Delhi on Monday saw a significant decline in its daily tally of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) after 648 new cases were recorded in the last 24 hours - the lowest since March 19 - according to the health department’s bulletin. As many as 86 people succumbed to the viral disease while 1,622 recovered in the last 24 hours, the bulletin further said. With this, Delhi’s caseload has climbed to 1,426,240 including 24,237 deaths, 1,390,963 recoveries and 11,040 active cases.The positivity rate on Monday also declined to 0.99%. Monday’s case count is 298 less than that of Sunday’s when 946 people tested positive for Covid-19. Over 65,000 tests (65,240 to be exact) were conducted in the last 24 hours of which 50,003 were RT-PCR/CBNAAT/TrueNat tests while the remaining 15,237 rapid antigen tests. The number of patients under home isolation has come down to 5,374 and the containment zones have also reduced to 19,677, the health bulletin said.Also Read| Delhi unlock process: How Covid-19 cases came down from 28K to just over 1KThe unlocking process in Delhi started today with labourers employed in construction sites and factories allowed to resume work after six long weeks. According to the Delhi government, the above mentioned people are a part of the weakest economic sections.However, restrictions are still imposed for those not engaged in essential activities, restaurants, bars, metro services, movie theatres, clubs, educational institutions etc till June 7 in order to break the chain of transmission. As per the guidelines released by Delhi government, labourers employed in construction work and factories will be required to produce e-passes for movement during the extended lockdown period.Several factory owners on Monday grappled with a severe shortage of labourers as many of them left Delhi for their native places when the lockdown was first imposed. They also reported non-availability of raw materials as markets are yet to open for their supplies.Also Read| Sputnik V vaccine will be available in Delhi after June 20: Arvind KejriwalMeanwhile, nearly 9,800 beneficiaries were vaccinated against the Covid-19 disease in the last 24 hours, taking the cumulative figures to 5,353,524, according to the bulletin.As Delhi has stopped vaccination for people between 18-44 years and is also facing difficulties to procure doses for beneficiaries above 45 years, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Monday that the first consignment of Russia’s Sputnik V vaccine will arrive in the national capital after June 20.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-records-648-new-covid-19-cases-lowest-single-day-tally-since-march-19-101622462570601.html
31-05-2021||Kolkata||Alapan Bandopahyay retires as Bengal chief secretary, to be CM Mamata's special advisor||West Bengal chief secretary Alapan Bandopadhyay, at the centre of a faceoff between the state government and the central government, retired on Monday and was appointed by chief minister Mamata Banerjee as her special advisor. The development came on a day the West Bengal government refused to relieve Bandopadhyay to serve with the Centre in New Delhi, calling the order in this regard "unprecedented" and "unilateral."Also Read | Mamata and her battle against Union government over bureaucratsThe top bureaucrat was due to retire on May 31, but was given a three-month extension to help manage the Covid-19 situation in the state, as well the situation post-Cyclone Yaas, which hit West Bengal last week.“Since Alapan Bandopadhyay has retired from his service today, he is not going to join in Delhi. I will not allow him to leave (state secretariat) Nabanna,” Banerjee was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.The chief minister also announced that home secretary HK Dwivedi will be the new chief secretary, while BP Gopalika will take over as the new home secretary.Earlier in the day on Monday, Banerjee wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, informing him of her government’s decision to not relieve Bandopadhyay, and also objecting to the Centre’s decision to transfer him to the Capital. Later, speaking at a Covid-19 and Cyclone Yaas review meeting, she said that the chief secretary “has responsibility here.”Also Read | 'He has responsibility here': Bengal CM Mamata on chief secretaryLast Friday, the Union government shunted Bandopadhyay to New Delhi, just hours after Banerjee "skipped" a meeting convened by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to review the impact of the cyclone in the eastern state. In its order, the department of personnel and training (DoPT), directed the officer to report to duty at 10am on May 31.Also Read | In Bengal, a political battle over cyclone relief erupts, againThe episode marks yet another confrontation between the two sides following the arrests of three leaders from the chief minister’s Trinamool Congress (TMC), as well as a former TMC leader, on May 17 in connection with the Narada sting operation case. On May 28, all four were granted interim bail by the Calcutta high court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/alapan-bandopahyay-retires-as-bengal-chief-secretary-to-be-bengal-cm-s-special-advisor-101622462556765.html
31-05-2021||Chandigarh||Kinnaur’s forest man leaves behind an evergreen legacy||At 74, Anand Dhawaj Negi, the forest man of Kinnaur, has left behind an evergreen legacy by developing a lush forest spread over 100 hectares in the cold desert of the high-altitude border district of Himachal Pradesh. Popularly known as AD, Negi died after suffering a brain stroke on May 23. He created the forest at Thang Karma 50km uphill from Pooh, a small town in Kinnaur. It’s a tall order considering the district is spread over 6.24 lakh hectares of which 5.76 lakh hectares is non-cultivable and only 9,355 acres is cultivated land. The district has 38,563 hectares of forest land. The natural vegetation at this altitude is limited to grass and shrubs. But Negi had different plans. “He was an inspiration to me just like many others. His way of educating people through ground action must reach millions. His way of demonstrating a transformation must be included in the books. I wish to carry forward his legacy and our upcoming waste collection centre at Pooh is going to be named after him,” says Pradeep Sangwan, the convenor of NGO Healing Himalayas. Inspiration behind transformation A native of Sunam village in Kinnaur, Negi worked with the finance wing of the desert development programme. When government efforts to turn the barren land into green fields did not yield results, he took permission from the authorities in 1998 to start a volunteer service for developing a forest at Thang Karma. The Centre had already launched a scheme to mitigate the adverse effects of desertification when in 1999, Negi, who was the deputy comptroller, took it upon himself to develop the desert and implement the biggest cold desert programme. He took leave that year and in 2003 opted for voluntary retirement to spend all his time at Thang Karma. Between 1998 and 2008, Negi planted whatever he could in the cold desert. Local wisdom helped him as he trekked to villages to seek advice from the elderly on plants and crops that could be grown in the forest patch. “My uncle worked with the desert development programme but when he realised that lots of money was being wasted without any tangible results, he quit the job,” says Negi’s 36-year-old nephew Virender Sappa. Sappa is a postgraduate in anthropology from Panjab University but was so inspired by his uncle’s initiative that he took up traditional farming, too. Contour planting method worked It wasn’t long before Negi realised the Herculean task on hand as the land had no source of water. With the help of villagers, he tapped water from a nullah 6km from Thang Karma. The nullah originates in China-occupied Tibetan Autonomous Region (TAR). The irrigation and public health department, now known as the Jalshakti department) would only supply water in summer and that too for a limited duration. “But seeing my uncle’s resolve, the department supplemented his efforts to provide water for the forest project,” says Sappa. Initially the survival rate of the plants in his nursery using the seeding method was only 20%. He blended local practices along with scientific ones to plant the right trees. He adopted the contour planting method that is irrigated by small dug-up water channels. Contour plantation provided enough moisture to the plants. “At first, he achieved success with contour planting in a small patch. Later, he replicated it in the entire 100 hectares,” he says. Fixing nitrogen deficiency in soil Another challenge before Negi was that the soil lacked nitrogen. Soil in the cold arid region is mostly sandy loam. To fix the nitrogen in the soil, he planted clovers along the irrigation channels; they retain water and also divert hare that destroy crops. He chose the vegetation wisely as he grew plants that have roots that decompose and help the soil become more fertile with time. The bark of tree saplings was covered with scrap wood to protect them against the freezing cold. Saplings were planted a little below ground level, in pits, to shield them from the wind. Negi went on to rear 300 chigu goats, known for high-quality Cashmere wool and meat quality. The goat dung was added to the soil to raise nutrients in the soil. 200 farmers join hands, transform landscape In 60 hectares, he planted and nurtured 30,000 trees, most of them deciduous trees such as poplar, wild apricot and Rubinya. Negi inspired more than 200 farmers in the region to transform their arid land into a cultivable patch. “We took inspiration from Negi ji, he showed us the way to develop orchards in the cold desert,” says Roshan Negi, 39, of Chango, a village along the China border known for its high-quality apple production.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/kinnaurs-forest-man-leaves-behind-an-evergreen-legacy-101622461070165.html
31-05-2021||Delhi||Covid-19 in Delhi: Over 1,000 people fined in a day for not wearing face masks||The Delhi Police fined 1,080 people on Sunday for not wearing face masks, officials said on Monday.According to police data, on March 30, 920 people were fined for not wearing masks and 19 for not maintaining social distancing. On March 31, 1,091 were fined for not wearing masks and 16 others for violating social distancing norms.On Sunday, 108 people were also fined for not maintaining social distancing, the officials said."The Delhi Police has issued over one lakh challans to people during lockdown for not wearing masks and violating social distancing etc. We urge people not to come out of their homes unnecessarily and follow Covid appropriate behaviour despite the fact that the cases are declining and the process of unlocking has started," Delhi Police Additional Public Relations Officer (PRO) Anil Mittal.A total of 1,06,558 challans have been issued by the police from April 19 to May 30, the data showed.While 90,000 people were fined for not wearing face masks, 15,184 were penalised for not maintaining social distancing, 1,193 for large public gatherings or congregations, 63 for spitting and 118 for consumption of liquor, pan, tobacco etc., it stated.Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had announced a lockdown in the national capital on April 19 in view of an exponential rise in coronavirus cases in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covid19-in-delhi-over-1-000-people-fined-in-a-day-for-not-wearing-face-masks-101622460533636.html
31-05-2021||Patna||JD-U leader abducted in Khagaria, family alleges police inaction||Twenty-four hours after a local Janata Dal-United (JD-U) leader and member of Fisheries cooperation committee was abducted by unidentified people from Bihar’s Khagaria district, the police are yet to trace him or his kidnappers. The investigating officials said it was a case of political rivalry.Police said that the incident took place on Sunday evening when Ashok Sahni alias Munna, district president of JD-U cooperative cell, along with his driver Babloo was returning from their Baluahi based home in Gangaur on a motorcycle. When they reached Khagaria-Bakhri Road, a luxury car obstructed their way and forced Sahni and his driver into the vehicle before speeding away. The miscreants released Babloo a little while later.The matter came to light when the station house officer (SHO) of Muffasil police station, Ranjit Kumar, found an abandoned motorcycle carrying the name plate of JD (U) district president and contacted his house.Sahni’s wife Shivani told the police that her husband had gone to Gangaur for personal work with his driver. Police then managed to trace Babloo, who narrated the entire incident to the police. Police also learnt later that Sahni’s kidnappers changed vehicles after his abduction.Meanwhile, Sahni’s family has alleged police inaction claiming the probe was ineffective in the initial hours of kidnapping despite there being enough hints about the identity of the culprits.“Separate teams under the supervision of Sub divisional police officer (SDPO) Sumit Kumar are working on the case,” said Khagaria superintendent of police (SP) Amitesh Kumar. He added that raids were on to nab the suspected criminals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/jdu-leader-abducted-in-khagaria-family-alleges-police-inaction-101622460468729.html
31-05-2021||Other||Goa to begin vaccinating taxi drivers, seafarers as frontline workers||Amid an increasingly slow pace of its vaccination drive, the Goa government has decided to expand the definition of frontline workers to make taxi drivers, motorcycle pilots as well as seafarers eligible for the Covid-19 vaccine. The decision, announced by chief minister Pramod Sawant, stands to benefit as many as 30,000 registered taxi drivers in Goa as well as the thousands of seafarers who will not be able to board their ship when called for duty unless they can show proof of vaccination. Earlier the Goa government had made the lifeguards manning Goa’s beaches eligible for vaccination in addition to government field staff, journalists and other frontline workers. Also Read | India’s vaccine policy requires transparency“Priority vaccination will be made available for 18-45-year-old persons, people with comorbidities, lactating mothers, motorcycle pilots, rickshaw drivers, taxi drivers, seafarers, and the disabled,” Sawant announced. Goa has more than 250,530 doses “surplus” among those allocated for people aged 45 years and above, but the response among those in that age group has been lukewarm with the state being able to vaccinate only around 4,000-5,000 people a day despite launching Tika Utsav 2.0. Sawant had earlier said that the state would seek permission to “loan” vaccines that were allocated to the 45+ age group to other age groups where the demand is higher but was yet to be given the go-ahead by the Centre.“We have sought permission from the government of India to loan some of the vaccines that are allocated for the above 45 age group. In the next eight to ten days, we will start the vaccination for the priority groups in the 18-44 age group,” Sawant had said.The decision to include seafarers comes on the back of a directive of the Union Ministry for Shipping, Port and Waterways on May 7, 2021, asking all major ports to commence vaccination for seafarers.The seafarers, many of whom had received calls to rejoin duty aboard ships, but were unable to do so sans vaccination, had been urging the Goa government to start vaccination on priority for them.The taxi operators, a large and politically active constituency in the state, have also welcomed the move.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/goa-to-begin-vaccinating-taxi-drivers-seafarers-as-frontline-workers-101622459868797.html
31-05-2021||Kolkata||'He has responsibility here': Bengal CM Mamata on chief secretary||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee said on Monday that chief secretary Alapan Bandopadhyay "has a responsibility here" as she chaired a review meeting over Cyclone Yaas, which hit Bengal last week, as well as the Covid-19 situation in the state.Also Read | Mamata and her battle against Union government over bureaucrats"I've visited Cyclone Yaas-affected Digha, chief secretary Alapan Bandopadhyay has a responsibility here. Fishermen's compensation needs to be thought of," Banerjee was quoted as saying during the review meeting by news agency ANI. "Poor people should remember I'm there for you all. Don't participate in the provocation. We didn't get any relief package nor we asked for it," she further said.The extension of the chief secretary, the chief minister said, "is not in my hands," adding that she would reply on the matter "when the time comes."On the Covid-19 situation, Banerjee said, "The daily number of cases have gone down to 11,000, while the daily positivity rate has decreased to 18-19%. The death rate is 0.56%, which is lesser than during the first wave, and discharge rate stands at 91%."Bandopadhyay, who was due to retire on Monday, has been at the centre of a major faceoff between the central government and the West Bengal government. Last Friday, the Centre directed the top bureaucrat to report for duty in New Delhi on May 31, just hours after the chief minister "skipped" a review meeting convened by Prime Minister Narendra Modi over the cyclone during his visit to West Bengal.Also Read | In Bengal, a political battle over cyclone relief erupts, againEarlier on Monday, Banerjee wrote to PM Modi, refusing to relieve Bandopadhyay "at this critical hour", also pointing out that he has been given an extension of three months to help manage the cyclone and Covid-19 situation in the eastern state. In her letter, the chief minister also described the Centre's decision as "unprecedented" and "unilateral".Also Read | Centre stuns Mamata Banerjee, transfers top Bengal official to Delhi after rowThe episode marks yet another confrontation between the two sides after the arrests of four accused on May 17 in connection with the Narada sting operation case. Of the four, three are from Banerjee's Trinamool Congress (TMC), while one is a former TMC leader. Two of the accused hold ministerial positions in the West Bengal government. All four were granted interim bail by the Calcutta high court on May 28.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/he-has-responsibility-here-bengal-cm-mamata-on-chief-secretary-101622456746782.html
31-05-2021||Pune||Monday Musings: MVA on learning curve: Govt gets proactive to prevent another crisis||Last week, when the Nashik Police ordered an inquiry into allegations of corruption against Maharashtra transport minister Anil Parab, many were surprised. The probe was ordered by Nashik police commissioner Deepak Pandey, even as he maintained that these are allegations and that the complainant has not attached any evidence at this point. The move exhibited both, the pro-activeness of the government to pre-empt the situation, and to prevent another crisis as it has barely recovered from the one that led to the resignation of Anil Deshmukh as home minister. Allegations against Parab, a senior Shiv Sena leader, came barely two months after Deshmukh had to resign in view of a CBI probe into accusations against him of running an extortion racket in Mumbai. Deshmukh’s resignation was a second jolt to the state government, as it came after the resignation of another minister, Sanjay Rathod. Unlike the last time, the response from the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government in Parab’s case was different and a deviation from its earlier policy of either defending ministers facing allegations, or not responding till the case reached court. A few days after a suspended motor vehicle inspector of the Nashik Regional Transport Office (RTO) Gajendra Patil accused Parab and six officers of corruption in transfers and postings in the RTO department to the tune of crores of rupees, a probe was ordered. Parab, 56, is a three-term Shiv Sena legislator in the Maharashtra Legislative Council, the upper house of the state legislature. An advocate by profession, Parab is also minister for parliamentary affairs in the MVA government, enjoying much clout due to his proximity to Uddhav Thackeray. Parab has refuted the charges saying the complaint filed against him, the state transport commissioner and five other officers, is baseless, politically motivated, and aimed at defaming the MVA government. For the Shiv Sena, Parab meeting same fate as that of Deshmukh is unaffordable. The speed with which the Nashik police chief asked the deputy commissioner of police (DCP) to conduct a probe directing the DCP to submit the investigation report in the next five days, shows that the MVA government did not want to let the opposition overpower the situation. The complaint was filed by Gajendra Patil via an email, sent to Panchvati police station in Nashik on May 16. At the same time, the MVA has taken enough care to ensure the necessary precautions, so that the investigation does not reach the judiciary’s doorstep at this point. The government’s pro-activeness is a departure from the laxity exercised during Anil Deshmukh’s case. Within 14 months of the Uddhav Thackeray-led MVA government being in power, Deshmukh had to resign following allegations made by former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh. He was left with no choice but to step down as the Bombay High Court ordered a preliminary CBI inquiry into the complaints, acting on a petition filed by advocate Jayashree Patil. Patil approached the high court after the Malabar Hill police station did not take action on a letter she had written on March 21 seeking to register a complaint against Deshmukh. Hearing the case that time, a bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice Girish S Kulkarni had said, “We agree with Jayashree Patil that directions are required to order an unbiased probe to unearth the truth”. By immediately ordering a probe, the Nashik Police have pre-empted others from taking a route similar to that of Patil, seeking the court’s intervention. Nashik police chief Pandey has asked two DCPs in Nashik to assist in the probe against Parab, also asking the complainant to be present on May 31. The opposition, going by their usual playbook, has sought Parab’s resignation to ensure a free and fair investigation. However, the probe ordered by the Nashik police, has taken the air out of their demand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/monday-musings-mva-on-learning-curve-govt-gets-proactive-to-prevent-another-crisis-101622458189152.html
31-05-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka reports 1,250 cases of Mucormycosis, 39 related deaths||A total of 1,250 black fungus (Mucormycosis) cases have been reported in Karnataka so far, informed the state health department.Of the 1,250 affected patients, 1,193 are still under treatment. While 18 patients have been discharged so far, 39 people have succumbed to the fungus, stated a bulletin released by the health department on Sunday.Bengaluru Urban Khurda district accounted for the most number of infections with 521 cases. While 508 people are still under treatment in the state capital, 10 people have recovered and 3 patients have died so far.Meanwhile, Karnataka Health Minister K Sudhakar on Sunday said that Union Minister DV Sadananda Gowda held talks with more than eight companies for black fungus medicine."About 80,000 vials are in the market. The state has received 8-10 thousand vials so far. There were 1,250 cases of black fungus in the state. 30-35 deaths took place due to the infection. The medicines are being distributed to black fungus infected persons who were admitted to either a government hospital or a private hospital," the Karnataka Health Minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-reports-1-250-cases-of-mucormycosis-39-related-deaths-101622457470167.html
31-05-2021||Delhi||Kejriwal working to get people of Delhi vaccinated, but BJP abusing him: Sisodia||Delhi's deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Monday said that Aam Aadmi Party (AAP)-led government is ensuring that all the people in the national capital are vaccinated against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Pointing out that Arvind Kejriwal is working to achieve this target, Sisodia accused several leaders of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) of abusing the Delhi chief minister whenever he worked for the people.“Yesterday, I saw a video of Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar where he said that Kejriwal is vaccinating people in a hurry and vaccine doses should be saved. JP Nadda also spoke bad things about Kejriwal. BJP leaders are criticising and abusing Kejriwal in order to hide their failures in managing the Covid-19 pandemic,” Sisodia said while addressing a press conference.Also Read| Covid-19: Kejriwal urges Centre to order vaccines for statesHe accused the BJP government at the Centre of being busy in "poll management and image management" rather than focusing on managing the pandemic, procuring vaccine doses, and increasing production in the country.“Arvind Kejriwal is working hard to accelerate the vaccination campaign to ensure that maximum people are inoculated before the third wave of Covid-19. But, they (BJP) started abusing Kejriwal. Earlier, they stopped the supply of oxygen in Delhi. Kejriwal fought for its resumption due to which thousands of lives were saved,” the deputy chief minister further said.Sisodia asserted that Kejriwal will continue to demand vaccines despite the abuse and criticism by the BJP. He also urged the BJP-ruled states to focus on inoculating their citizens.Also Read| Over half of Delhi residents aged 45+ have got a vaccine dose, says state govtDelhi has so far vaccinated 5,343,766 beneficiaries of which 53,918 were vaccinated on Sunday, according to the health department’s bulletin. Vaccination for beneficiaries between 18-44 years is currently suspended amid a severe crunch of doses. AAP spokesperson Atishi alleged on Sunday that the Delhi government was not receiving doses for 18-44 years while private hospitals were charging exorbitant rates for vaccinating this age group.Meanwhile, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announced on Monday that Russia’s Sputnik V vaccine will be available in the national capital after June 20. “We have been assured that after June 20 we will get some doses from the makers. Right now they are importing the vaccine and will start manufacturing in August,” he said while addressing reporters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/kejriwal-working-to-get-people-of-delhi-vaccinated-but-bjp-abusing-him-sisodia-101622456335718.html
31-05-2021||Delhi||Sputnik V vaccine will be available in Delhi after June 20: Arvind Kejriwal||Russian vaccine 'Sputnik V' will soon be available in Delhi with the Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday said that the makers of the vaccine has assured to send a consignment to the national capital after June 20."We have been assured that after June 20 we will get some doses by the makers. Right now they are importing the vaccine and will start manufacturing in August. A part of the doses imported from Russia will be provided to Delhi," Kejriwal said in an interaction with mediapersons.Asked about the challenges faced by his government in the ongoing Covid vaccination drive, the chief minister apprised about certain problems in the online portal, which he said will be fixed soon.He said the government will also begin working on feedback provided by public.Kerjiwal also appealed to the Centre to work with states to unitedly fight against Covid-19."This is not the time to fight with states. It is time to help them...It is time to fight COVID. I appeal to Centre to unite with states and fight COVID as team India," Kejriwal said.The Delhi Chief Minister earlier today inaugurated a free vaccination facility for journalists and their family members."We have started this facility to vaccinate journalists and their family members for both above 45 years and 18-44 years age categories," Kejriwal said.Elaborating on the facility, Dr Tanisha Negi said, "This centre has been opened for media personnel and their families. We have two sites, one for the 18-44 years age bracket and the another for the above 45 years category. This way the entire family can be covered. The beneficiaries need to register with Aadhar cards and Press IDs."Negi also specified that Serum Institute's Covishield vaccine will be provided at the facility and a second dose will be given after three months."We have all healthcare facility available here. There will be nurses and I will be present. We have one ambulance to take care of any emergency if arises," she added.Russia's Sputnik V got approval from the Subject expert committee (SEC) for Emergency Use Authorisation (EUA), making it the third Covid-19 vaccine to get clearance in India.Sputnik V has been imported to India by Dr Reddy's Laboratories and will be manufactured locally by the pharmaceutical major in the coming months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/sputnik-v-vaccine-will-be-available-in-delhi-after-june-20-arvind-kejriwal-101622452842328.html
31-05-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai's civic-run zoo to expand by 10 acres for new animals||The civic-run Byculla Zoo in Mumbai is set to expand by 10 acres to house new enclosures for several exotic species of animals that will be brought to the facility in the next few years, officials said on Monday.One of the city's most patronised venues, officially called the Veermata Jijabai Bhosale Udyan, it is currently spread over 53 acres and the extra 10 acres have already been procured for a third phase of expansion, they added.Zoo director Dr Sanjay Tripathi told PTI that a tender had been floated for the expansion work that will see the construction of 15 enclosures to house animals like the giraffe, white lion, black jaguar, chimpanzee, ostrich, ringtail lemur and cheetah etc.He said the Union government approved the expansion work in 2019.Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation officials said work in the first two phases is expected to cost ₹175 crore and tenders for its have already been floated.Under these phases, a space for exhibiting African savanna will be built along with an aviary for exotic birds, as well as a hippopotamus enclosure, apart from landscaping, installation of CCTV cameras, public amenities etc.Byculla Zoo has over 330 animals, birds and reptiles, including monkeys, deer, elephants, penguins, crocodiles, hippopotamus, penguins etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbais-civic-run-zoo-to-expand-by-10-acres-for-new-animals-101622451568657.html
31-05-2021||Delhi||‘False narrative’: Hardeep Singh Puri calls out criticism on Central Vista||Union minister Hardeep Puri on Monday hit back at opposition’s criticism over the government’s Central Vista, saying a false narrative is being created over the project. “I am have been noticing that for these past few months that a false narrative is being created. And if the political class should be careful if it talks about these things. Others need to be careful as well,” Puri, the Union minister of housing and urban affairs, said during a press briefing.The ₹13,450 crore Central Vista project has faced criticism from various quarters and political parties. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi has criticised the Centre for executing the project, terming it a "criminal wastage" and asked it to focus on people's lives during the ongoing coronavirus pandemic.Also read | PIL against Central Vista bid to stall project: CentrePuri pointed out the the Central Vista project has legal clearance that “none of the historic, cultural, iconic buildings will be touched and will remain exactly as they are” and that people must understand the difference that the Central Vista and Central Avenue are two different projects. “The old Parliament building comes under Seismic Zone IV and … the people’s representatives should be able to sit and conduct the business,” he also said.“Currently, two new projects are underway -the New Parliament Building and Central Vista Avenue. A decision on these projects was taken before the pandemic,” he said.The minister cited an article written by Congress leader Jairam Ramesh calling for a new Parliament building and said that in 2012 Meira Kumar’s OSD wrote to the housing ministry’s secretary saying clearing that a decision has been taken to build a new Parliament building.Also read | Central Delhi roads will need to expand due to Central Vista project: ReportThe Central Vista project includes construction of a new Parliament, Prime Minister and vice-president’s residences, a central secretariat and several other buildings. Once complete, the government employee population in the area is expected to increase by 10-15% from 57,000 currently. The Central Public Works Department recently said the new buildings will have parking for at least 16,000 cars and the new service roads will ensure smooth flow of traffic on main roads.Puri also pointed to the Delhi High Court’s dismissal of a plea seeking to halt construction work at Central Vista Avenue on Monday as the court said it was “a motivated petition”. The high court said the Public Interest Litigation or PIL was genuine and also imposed a fine of  ₹1 lakh on the petitioners citing lack of bonafide on their side.Also read | Neither PM Modi nor Centre understood Covid-19 pandemic: Rahul GandhiA bench of Chief Justice DN Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh was hearing the plea by Anya Malhotra, a translator, and Sohail Hashmi, a historian and documentary filmmaker, seeking to halt the ongoing part redevelopment of the Central Vista Avenue which includes both sides of Rajpath where Republic Day celebration are held. They contended that the project was not an essential activity and therefore, could be put on hold for now during the coronavirus pandemic.The project, being handled by the Union ministry of housing and urban affairs, involves building a new Parliament building by India’s 75th Independence Day in 2022. And the overall project, which includes constructing 11 administrative buildings to house all the government ministries, is slated to be finished by 2024.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/false-narrative-hardeep-singh-puri-calls-out-criticism-on-central-vista-101622451172686.html
31-05-2021||Patna||Bihar extends Covid lockdown by a week till June 8 but with some relaxations||The Bihar government on Monday extended Covid-19 lockdown by a week till June 8, following a review of the situation by chief minister Nitish Kumar and state officials. This is the fourth extension of the lockdown that began on May 5.“Seeing the cases and the positive impact of the lockdown, it has been decided to extend the lockdown by one more week till June 8 but certain relaxations for trade and commerce are being provided,” Nitish Kumar said in a tweet. The lockdown was earlier supposed to end on June 1.Additional chief secretary (home) Chaitanya Prasad said all shops and business establishments will now open alternately from 6 am till 2 pm. “The district magistrates will decide which shop is to open on which day,” said Prasad. Earlier, certain shops including grocery and vegetable kiosks were allowed to open from 6 am till 10 am.Prasad added that government offices will also be allowed to function with 25% staff strength, however, private offices will continue to remain closed.On Sunday, Bihar reported 1,475 positive Covid cases, down from the 14,836 cases reported on May 5, the day the lockdown was announced. 5104 deaths, including 52 in the last 24 hours, have taken place in the state due to the disease.The test positivity rate, which stood at 15.7% on May 2, has now come down to 1.8% on May 30 and the recovery rate has increased to 96.67%. The state reported 18,377 active cases on Sunday.“The impact of the lockdown has been very encouraging and the crisis management group (CMG) has decided to continue with the restrictions and relaxations announced on May 16,” said additional chief secretary (health), Pratayaya Amrit.Bihar’s CMG had decided to impose a state-wide lockdown in a desperate attempt to contain the disease and to deal with the continuing shortage of life saving drugs, medical oxygen and hospital beds across the state.The state currently faces a big challenge of vaccinating people in rural areas although it has dispatched vans for testing and vaccinations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-extends-covid-lockdown-by-a-week-till-june-8-but-with-some-relaxations-101622450868343.html
31-05-2021||Delhi||How fraudsters duped Covid patients and their families in Delhi||While Delhi was in the grip of the Covid-19 pandemic’s second wave -- the deadliest one till date -- several people took advantage of patients’ and their families’ desperation. With each passing week, fraudsters adopted different ways to dupe families affected by Covid-19. Last month, when there was a shortage of oxygen at city hospitals, oxygen was sold in black. Currently, as cases of black fungus (mucormycosis) and a shortage of the medicine Amphotericin-B are being reported across the city, police have started receiving complaints about black marketing of Amphotericin-B. Since April 13, police have arrested nearly 300 persons for crimes related to Covid-19. Who are these people? How did they manage to con hapless Covid-19 affected families? HT looks for the answers in the police’s case files.Also Read | France to send more liquid oxygen, oxygen plants and concentratorsA professional blood donor, a recovered Covid-19 patient, a labourer who lost his job due to the lockdown, at least three doctors, 16 employees of various hospitals, 13 chemist shop owners, 13 ambulance drivers, a dozen students and graduates with LLB, MBA or MCom degrees, three foreign nationals, nearly 20 businessmen, and habitual cyber fraudsters were among the over 300 people arrested in the last month. While a majority of them have been arrested from Delhi-NCR, some were caught from states like Uttarakhand, Haryana, Rajasthan, Bihar, Jharkhand and West Bengal. The records show that most of those arrested from other states were part of different organised syndicates that duped Covid-19 patients or their families in Delhi by promising to supply Covid-19 medicines, injections, or medical essentials such as oxygen cylinders and concentrators. Police statistics show that a total of 601 first information reports (FIRs) have been registered till May 18. The complaints were of different types--- overcharging by ambulance service providers, cheating in the name of delivering oxygen cylinders and concentrators, providing beds in hospitals; and supplying life-saving medicines. A common thread wove the cases of most victims --- they sought help on social media and came across the numbers of the fraudsters on social media. Between April 13 and May 18, different police teams arrested 312 people. Approximately 290 of them had no criminal history, police records showed, even as officials continue to check. Nearly 100 of them were part of the heathcare industry. However, unlike many doctors and nursing staff who lost their lives fighting against the spread of Covid-19, the arrested persons confessed to the police that they chose to make the most out of the fear caused by the disease. Of the three arrested doctors, one practised at a private hospital in outer Delhi’s Nangloi and another at a medical diagnostics laboratory in Malviya Nagar. The first doctor, a BAMS (Bachelor of Ayurveda, Medicine, and Surgery), was caught along with a security guard of the hospital for allegedly stealing remdesivir injections and selling them on the black market at inflated prices. The laboratory’s doctor and four other employees were booked for allegedly giving out fake Covid-19 test reports. The third doctor, who had quit the profession and started a business providing ambulance services, was arrested for allegedly overcharging Covid-19 patients. Records show that one of his victims was an elderly patient who was charged ₹1.20 lakh for a 350km journey -- from Gurugram in Haryana to a hospital in Punjab’s Ludhiana, the police said. At least 16 employees working in various hospitals in Delhi-NCR, including nursing staff, were arrested for selling Covid-19 medicines and oxygen cylinders at inflated rates. In a few cases, the nursing staff deployed in Covid-19 wards of their respective hospitals misappropriated the medicines (by not administering them to the patients and stealing them) and sold them on the black market through their associates. “By not administering the drugs to the Covid-19 patients, these nursing staff played with their lives. They knew that even if the patient would die, it would never be established that he or she died because the life-saving medicine or injection was not administered. Being employed in hospitals or Covid-19 wards, these people had access to such medicines and injections that were in high demand but out of stock in all medical stories and hospitals. They saw it as an opportunity to earn quick money,” said a senior crime branch officer privy to details of such cases. Dr Avinder Sabharwal, who runs a Covid-19 facility at Jeevan Hospital Gate No-2 in south Delhi’s Maharani Bagh, said such people had shamed the medical fraternity. “At a time when the pandemic is spreading in the entire country, it’s the responsibility of the medical fraternity to save lives and help people in whatever way possible. However, there are people who are taking advantage of this crisis to make money through hoarding and black marketing of Covid-19 essentials. Anyone involved in such malpractices should be condemned. They should be strongly dealt as per law so that everyone knows that nobody is above the law.” A high-powered committee(HPC) of representatives from the judiciary, police, state government and prisons formed to look into issues of prisoners during the pandemic has already excluded such people from the list of prisoners eligible for interim bail. The HPC took the decision after Delhi police wrote to the committee, pointing out that such people took advantage of the chaos during the pandemic “to make wrong and undue profits by black marketing and selling drugs”. The third in the category were drivers and owners of ambulances who were arrested on for cheating, extortion and overcharging from Covid-19 patients, either for shifting them to hospitals or transporting their bodies to crematoriums. In many cases, these people charged eight to ten times more than the usual transportation charges. The numerous complaints prompted the police to come down heavily on such ambulance operators, while the Delhi government capped the rate of the city’s ambulance services. At least 13 ambulance drivers and owners and two CATS paramedics were arrested in the last one month, police data shows. Some of them are out on bail. Among those arrested for fraud is a Covid-19 patient herself, who had come in contact with such conmen when she needed help. The 40-year-old woman from north Delhi needed a remdevisir injection while she was admitted to a hospital in north Delhi. Although she could not get one, but survived, her struggle to find the injection brought her in contact with a gang that manufactured fake remdesivir medicines in a pharmaceutical company in Uttarakhand and sold them as genuine injections. She was arrested along with eight other members of the gang and nearly 200 fake remdesiver vials were recovered. And then there were chemists. At least 13 chemist shop owners were arrested on charges of hoarding and black marketing Covid-19-related essentials. Similarly, some students and college graduates have also been charged with cheating and black marketing. A woman from Cameroon and two Nigerian nationals were arrested in two separate cases for duping people after promising to supply remdesivir injections and oxygen cylinders respectively, the police data shows. Among the over 20 arrested businessmen is Navneet Kalra, the owner of Khan Chacha, Town Hall and Nege & Ju restaurants, who has been booked on charges of hoarding and black marketing of oxygen concentrators. A total of 524 devices were seized from his restaurants and the office of Matrix Cellular company, whose five senior officials were also arrested in the case. About 170 more oxygen concentrators were seized from four businessmen in north Delhi while another four were caught with 115 devices from outer Delhi. Delhi police spokesperson, Chinmoy Biswal, said police have a zero tolerance policy against people who are playing with innocent lives just for a quick buck. “Apart from making arrests, we will ensure that all cases reach their logical conclusion, and the arrested persons get the strictest punishment as per law,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/how-fraudsters-duped-covid-patients-and-their-families-in-delhi-101622449908645.html
31-05-2021||Delhi||Making music to heal: Delhi-NCR musicians make a note, pitch in help||Ludwig van Beethoven once said: Music can change the world. And this is true amid the pandemic, as surrounded by grief while battling the second wave of Covid-19, some musicians in Delhi-NCR are creating notes to use their music to heal those in need. From inspiring people to donate plasma to giving away music pieces and donating oxygen cylinders, these artistes are doing it all.“Overwhelmingly terrifying and dark this time has been, and the only ray of light has been seeing so many people step up and do their bit to help. I recently saw a fund to save someone’s grandparents suffering from Covid reach its goal overnight, and that was so reassuring and powerful,” says singer Kamakshi Khanna, who has been participating in concerts organised to raise funds for Covid relief. “Show Up For India is a fundraiser that I got to be part of, which raised over 37 lakhs for organisations like Hemkunt Foundation and Give India. I also participated in a songwriting workshop in collaboration with Jesus & Mary College and Lady Shri Ram College, and all the proceeds from here will go to charities such as Karwan-e-Mohabbat and Mazdoor Kitchen,” she says, adding, “It’s great to be a small part of bigger initiatives contributing to helping our country get out of this crisis, from the safety and comfort of my bedroom, doing what I love the most.”For music producer Harleen Singh, raising funds for Covid relief started with him offering free music production lessons in exchange for donation to different organisations. But after he partnered with his friend and music producer, Siddhant Chordia, an initiative, Breathe This Air, came into being. Singh explains, “The project is giving free original beats to donors who will support organisations that are providing oxygen concentrators and cylinders to people in need. For ₹2,000 you get one beat, and for donations above ₹5,000 you will get a beat customised to your request.” His initiative has brought more artistes, painters and producers to diversify their giveaways. “We have so far given out over 70 beats and 23 artworks and have facilitated donation of 14,000 litres of oxygen against our target of 20,000 litres. I’m elated that our art has come to the aid of others,” adds Singh. When denizens were facing insurmountable challenges to deal with shortage of oxygen cylinders and concentrators, members of Bloodywood – an Indian Folk Metal band based – decided to take matters into their own hands. “We used our earnings to purchase five oxygen concentrators worth ₹3,50,000 and donated them to Hemkunt Foundation. They were put to use the very moment we delivered them. We have also shared links of this foundation’s fundraiser, which has received donations from our fans based all over the world,” says Karan Katiyar, a member of the band, adding, “We did this because helping is the ideology behind our music, and we will continue to provide support to others in whichever way possible!”Known for their songs with eclectic influences, another Delhi-based band Peter Cat Recording Co also joined the bandwagon of musicians helping the countrymen tide over tough times. “People of the country should have never been put in this situation in the first place... People whose lives have been lost in this pandemic will never be replaced. But, we want to help those who are still fighting. So, we’ve put some of our albums on sale, and will donate the proceeds to Hemkunt Foundation, Swabhiman Society and an individual; considering their real life impact. Our donation, however, is a drop in a drought,” says the band. Author tweets @bhagat_mallikaFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/making-music-to-heal-delhi-ncr-musicians-make-a-note-pitch-in-help-101622446548569.html
31-05-2021||Kolkata||‘Shocked, stunned’ Mamata writes to PM Modi, says can’t release chief secretary||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi to withdraw the Centre's order recalling state chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay. She made the request in a letter to the PM and said her government "is not releasing" the top bureaucrat. Bandyopadhyay's service was recently extended for three months so that he could continue to serve in the state as it faced the deadly coronavirus disease (Covid-19) crisis after "mutual written consultations" and "in accordance with the due process", the CM said.Adding that she was "shocked and stunned" by the order as it comes with no prior consultation with the state government, she asked PM Modi to rescind it in public interest. "I humbly request you to withdraw, recall, reconsider your decision and rescind the latest so-called order in larger public interest. I appeal to your conscience and good sense, on the behalf of the people of West Bengal," she wrote."The West Bengal government cannot release, and is not releasing its chief secretary at this critical hour, on the basis of our understanding that the earlier order of extension, issued after lawful consultation in accordance with applicable laws, remains operational and valid," she further wrote.Also Read: Centre to take action against WB chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay﻿In her five page long letter, the CM also said she hoped the Centre's decision to recall the chief secretary had nothing to do with her meeting with PM Modi at West Bengal's Kalaikunda Air Force Station last week. "I rescheduled everything to rush to Kalaikunda to attend the meeting with you, accompanied by the chief secretary of my state. I was detained at Sagar...and yet I reached before the scheduled meeting to show utmost respect for your office..." she said in her letter.During the meeting, West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar, a few other Union ministers and a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MLA were also present, according to the letter. "The Governor had no role to play in the meeting..." the CM wrote. "...an individual MLA, having no locus, attending the meeting was unacceptable," she added.Signing off, Mamata Banerjee said she looked forward to the Centre's cooperation during these grim times. "I am sure you will not inflict further suffering on the people of this state by taking away the services of an experienced officer...suddenly without any consultation..." she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/mamata-banerjee-writes-to-pm-modi-says-won-t-release-bengal-chief-secretary-101622443647419.html
31-05-2021||Chandigarh||Kangana Ranaut pays obeisance at Golden Temple amid tight security||Actor Kangana Ranaut paid obeisance at Golden Temple amid tight security on her first visit to the holiest shrine of the Sikhs on Monday morning. Accompanied by her family, Kangana arrived in Amritsar by air and reached the shrine for a brief visit at 7.30am. Though she avoided speaking to the media, she later wrote on Instagram: “Today, I visited Sri Harmandir Sahib Golden Temple. Even though I grew up in the North and almost everyone in my family has already visited the temple many times, only for me it was first the time…speechless and stunned with Golden Temple’s beauty and divinity.” Also read: Confident of vaccinating all above 18 by 2021 end: Govt tells Supreme CourtKangana returned after paying obeisance at the sanctum sanctorum. Apart from her personal security, Punjab Police deployed tight security with the deputy commissioner of police (law and order) overseeing arrangements. Office-bearers of the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC), which manages the shrine and usually felicitates VIPs during their visit, stayed away in the backdrop of Kangana’s controversial tweets in December about an elderly woman participant of the farmers’ agitation against the BJP-led Centre’s farm laws. The SGPC had issued her a notice for calling the octogenarian woman from a farmer’s family a daily-wager. Though she deleted the tweet, the SGPC demanded an apology. Kangana has also had a bitter social media spat with popular Punjabi actor Diljit Dosanjh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/kangana-ranaut-pays-obeisance-at-golden-temple-amid-high-security-101622442587868.html
31-05-2021||Lucknow||UP mulls rigorous curbs in 20 districts with more than 600 active cases||The Uttar Pradesh government said it was considering rigorous enforcement of existing Covid-19 restrictions in 20 districts with more than 600 active Covid cases. Meerut with 2,806 active cases and Deoria with 612, were the worst and the least worst-affected districts in this group. Lucknow had 2,450 active cases as on Sunday, when the latest figures were released by the state health department.The other districts among this group of 20 were Saharanpur, Varanasi, Ghaziabad, Gorakhpur, Muzaffarnagar, Bareilly, Gautam Buddha Nagar, Bulandshahr, Jhansi, Prayagraj, Lakhimpur Kheri, Sonbhadra, Jaunpur, Bagpat, Moradabad, Ghazipur and Bijnor.“The state government is considering rigorous enforcement of existing restrictions in 20 districts so that cases there fall soon,” said a state government official.Additional chief secretary (Home) Awanish Kumar Awasthi said: “Now, the districts are competing to bring down active cases below 600. Two district magistrates have said they will possibly bring down the number of active cases in their districts within a day.”While ordering the easing of the partial corona curfew, chief minister Yogi Adityanath said active Covid cases in the state had declined by 87% in a month’s time.State government’s new guidelines say all markets and shops in districts with less than 600 active cases can stay open from 7am to 7pm on weekdays while strictly following Covid safety protocols. However, daily night curfew and weekend closure of shops/businesses will continue across the state. Shopping malls, cinema halls, gyms, coaching institutes, swimming pools and clubs too will stay closed.Vegetable mandis (wholesale markets) will be allowed to open, but those in heavily populated areas will have to operate from less congested spaces, the order said. Railway stations, airports, roadways and bus stations will stay open while following protocols such as Covid screening and antigen testing.While Restaurants have been allowed to open only for home deliveries, roadside (highway and expressway) dhabas, vendors and kiosks will be allowed to function.A maximum limit of 25 guests has been fixed for all marriage functions; similarly no more than 20 persons will be allowed in funeral processions; while only five persons will be allowed inside religious places at a given time.Schools, colleges, education institutions will continue to stay closed, however, teaching and non-teaching staff will be allowed to go to their institutes for administrative work. Banks, insurance companies, and similar financial institutions will also be allowed to function without restrictions. Full attendance has been allowed in government offices that also employ Covid-19 frontline staff, however, only 50% attendance is allowed in other government offices. Private companies have been allowed to open their offices but will have to promote work from home culture. All industrial institutions will also be allowed to function and staff movement will be allowed with valid identity cards, the order said.On the transport front, state transport buses have been allowed to operate within the state with passengers limited to the prescribed seating capacity. Two, three and four-wheelers have been allowed with a pillion rider, two and four passengers respectively.Eggs, meat, fish shops have been allowed to function apart from a nod to all agriculture related work and establishments. All construction activities have also been allowed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-mulls-rigorous-curbs-in-20-districts-with-more-than-600-active-cases-101622442467921.html
31-05-2021||Pune||Petrol prices breach ₹100/litre-mark in Pune following 16th rate hike in May||From Monday, Petrol will cost ₹100.15/ litre in Pune, in the first instance of the auto fuel crossing ₹100-mark in the city. The price of petrol has shot past Rs-100/litre mark in many cities of Maharashtra including Mumbai in the past week.On Sunday, petrol’s price in Pune was hiked by ₹0.28/litre and diesel prices were raised by ₹0.27/litre to reach ₹90.71/ litre. This was the 16th hike in fuel prices in the month of May. The price of per litre of power petrol has reached ₹103.83 in the city, said Ali Daruwala, spokesperson of All India Petrol Dealers’ Association.The current rally in fuel prices began after a two month break from May 4th following the announcement of results for assembly elections in 4 states and one union territory on May 3. Petrol in Pune was then priced at ₹96.62 per litre and diesel at ₹86.32 per litre. The price of petrol and diesel has since risen by ₹3.83/litre and ₹4.42/litre respectively across the country.Petrol is now selling for more than ₹100/litre in several cities of Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Andhra Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh.Surging international oil rates and exorbitant domestic tax structure are two key reasons for high rates of petrol and diesel in pumps.Benchmark Brent crude rose marginally by 0.55% to $69.10 a barrel on Monday morning. Indian fuel retailers align pump prices of petrol and diesel with their international benchmark rates of the previous day. Even as international oil prices saw volatility in May, pump rates of auto fuels in India moved only in the upward direction.According to executives working in state-run oil marketing companies, pump prices are also high because companies were recovering their past revenue losses like the one suffered for 66 days since February 27 when rates were not raised because of assembly elections in four states and one Union territory.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/petrol-prices-breach-rs-100-litre-mark-in-pune-following-16th-rate-hike-in-may-101622437967591.html
31-05-2021||Mumbai||Battle for Maratha reservation to be fought in Delhi: Shiv Sena||Shiv Sena mouthpiece Saamana, in its editorial on Monday said that the battle for the Maratha reservation will be fought in Delhi.The editorial said it becomes necessary to knock on the doors of Delhi on the issue of the Maratha reservation. "The collision will prove to be decisive. To destabilize the politics of Maharashtra, the opposition will use the issue of the Maratha reservation as a weapon, then they will have to stop it in time," it stated.Saamana said Rajya Sabha MP Chhatrapati Sambhaji Raje has taken an aggressive role in the context of the Maratha reservation. "He has warned to go on street agitation if there is no decision by June 6," it said.Referring to the Supreme Court's observation, the editorial said only the Central government has the right to make such law regarding the reservation.Quoting Sambhaji Raje in this context, Saamana said, "The government has three legal options. The state could file a review petition in the Supreme Court. If it is dismissed, file an amended petition. Even if it was failed, plead with the President as per Article 37 of the Constitution."The publication emphasised the contribution of Maratha society in the formation of Maharashtra. It said Marathas are now lagging economically behind with poor crop harvesting due to nature's degeneracy as well as lack of employment opportunities. Therefore, the Maharashtra Government enacted a law giving 18 percent reservation to the Maratha community, which is educationally and socially backward."Therefore, the self-respect of the Marathas will have to be knocked at the door of Delhi. They will have to re-create the atmosphere of the battle of united Maharashtra in Delhi," added Saamana.The Supreme Court on May 5, 2021 struck down the reservation in government jobs and educational institutions for the Maratha community brought in by the Maharashtra government in 2018, saying it exceeded the 50 per cent cap imposed earlier.A five-judge Constitution Bench comprising Justices Ashok Bhushan, L Nageswara Rao, S Abdul Nazeer, Hemant Gupta and Ravindra Bhat in its judgment said that that people from the Maratha community cannot be declared as educationally and socially backward community to bring them within the reserved category. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/battle-for-maratha-reservation-to-be-fought-in-delhi-shiv-sena-101622436587041.html
31-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi weather: Expect thunderstorm, rain today||Delhi is likely to see thunderstorm with rain on Monday, as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast. The minimum temperature on Monday is likely to be 27 degrees Celsius (°C) while the maximum temperature is predicted to reach 38°C. The minimum temperature on Sunday was 25.2°C – two degrees below normal and the maximum temperature was 38.2°C– two degrees below normal. Meanwhile, Delhi’s air quality was in the satisfactory category on Monday morning. Data from Central Pollution Control Board showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 6am stood at 96. On Sunday, the average 24-hour AQI was 101, which is in the moderate category. Also Read | Covid-19 lockdown: Delhi’s unlock process begins from todayAn AQI between zero and 50 is considered good, 51 and 100 satisfactory, 101 and 200 moderate, 201 and 300 poor, 301 and 400 very poor, and 401 and 500 severe.On Sunday, the Union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar), said, “Surface winds are strong and south southeasterly, local dust uplifting is likely. Dust storms are likely in arid regions of Rajasthan, and long-range transport of dust is likely to marginally influence Delhi AQI. Isolated thunderstorms with gusty winds are likely in Delhi for the next three days. AQI is forecasted to stay in the moderate category with PM10 as the lead pollutant for tomorrow [Monday] and showers is likely to improve AQI by washing out pollutants. Moderate to satisfactory AQI is likely on June 1 and 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-weather-expect-thunderstorm-rain-today-101622430286987.html
31-05-2021||Mumbai||One arrested for bomb hoax at Maharashtra secretariat||Mumbai Police personnel on Sunday conducted a search operation at the Maharashtra government secretariat here after a caller, later identified as a farmer from Nagpur district, claimed that a bomb was planted on the building, which turned out to be a hoax call, officials said."Around 12.40 pm, the Disaster Management Control, Mantralaya, received a call from an unidentified caller claiming that a bomb was planted on the Mantralaya," Mumbai Police said in a statement.The caller was traced to Nagpur in east Maharashtra who turned out to be a farmer who allegedly made the call to draw the attention of the administration to his repeated pleas demanding compensation for his acquired land, a Nagpur rural police official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/one-arrested-for-bomb-hoax-at-maha-secretariat-101622428540998.html
31-05-2021||Delhi||Covid-19 lockdown: Delhi's unlock process begins from today||Delhi will start the process of partially easing its lockdown measures from Monday onwards, beginning with allowing the construction sector and factories to resume operations as cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) continue to see a steady decline in the national capital. The other restrictions, however, will remain in place till June 7, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announced on Friday.The decision to ease the lockdown was taken during a meeting of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Friday. The DDMA is chaired by lieutenant governor Anil Baijal while CM Kejriwal is the authority's vice-chairperson.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“In the un-lockdown process, our priority will be the weakest economic sections. So, we will start with labourers, especially migrant labourers. Since most of them are engaged either in the construction sector or in factories, we will open these two from this Monday. But we have to remember that the fight against Covid-19 is still not over. We have to make sure that things do not go bad again. To ensure this, the relaxations have to be introduced in a phased way,” said Kejriwal.The reopening of the city will be done in a phased manner to avoid another spike in cases, an order issued by the government in this regard read. "The situation of Covid-19 in NCT of Delhi has again been reviewed and observed that, though the number of Covid-19 patients and positivity rate is declining, the situation is still precarious, therefore, in order to contain the spread of virus and to further break the transmission chain, curfew needs to be extended for another week in the territory of NCT of Delhi (except for essential activities / services), permitting reopening of certain prohibited activities in a phased manner in areas outside the containment zones for overall well-being of the people of NCT of Delhi," it read.Also Read: Delhi extends lockdown, allows construction and manufacturing. Conditions applyDelhi reported 946 cases of Covid-19 and 78 fatalities due to the disease in the previous 24 hours, according to a state health bulletin on Sunday. With this, the national capital's toll increased to 24,151 and its infection tally was pushed to over 1.43 million. The positivity rate, which was 1.19% on Saturday and 1.59% on Friday, stood at 1.25% on Sunday, according to the health bulletin.On April 20, Delhi recorded 28,395 Covid-19 cases — the highest-ever single-day rise — and the city's positivity rate was more than 36% on April 22. A full lockdown was imposed in Delhi on April 19, as part of which all economic activities, other than those considered essential, were banned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covid19-lockdown-delhi-s-unlock-process-begins-from-today-101622424440886.html
31-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi man turns his car into 'emergency response vehicle' to help Covid patients||A Delhi resident has turned his car into what he calls an 'emergency response vehicle' to help Covid patients amid the second wave of the pandemic.Nagia, who is working at an IT company in Noida, has equipped his car with all the necessary equipment like oxygen cylinders, medicines, oximeter, food, water, and oxygen cans.Talking to ANI, Nagia said, "It has been one month now since I started this service. I am trying to help people in need by providing a variety of help and support. I have converted my car into an ambulance. I have provided transport to around 23 Covid positive patients to different hospitals free of cost.""It started in April. I was helping one of my neighbours as they needed oxygen. There was no oxygen cylinder available in the market at that time. Somehow, we arranged an oxygen cylinder from a Gurudwara in Rajouri Garden," he said."When I was going all the way from East Delhi to Rajouri Garden, I saw I am not the only one who is struggling for oxygen. Like me, there were hundreds of people who were going with cylinders in their cars, autos and cycles as well in search of oxygen. The idea popped up in my mind as I thought since I am working from home these days I have some time to devote to helping people," Nagia explained the inspiration behind the move.He said that now since Covid-19 cases have decreased and there is a lesser demand for oxygen cylinders."I am serving policemen and families with free clean drinking water and food as well. I have even provided costly medicines to multiple families free of cost. I have spent almost a month mostly in my car, away from my family and kids just to serve people who are facing issues," he said.Nagia said that he has not sought any help from anyone but he received small funds from a couple of people."They wanted me to donate this fund specifically for covering bodies. I gave that fund to NGOs, who were helping in cremation and funerals. Whatever I am doing with my car, I am doing it with my pocket," he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-man-turns-his-car-into-emergency-response-vehicle-to-help-covid-patients-101622424641334.html
31-05-2021||Delhi||Health infrastructure gets boost as Delhi preps for next Covid wave||Building on lessons learnt from arresting the brutal fourth wave of infections in the Capital, Delhi has started preparing for the next Covid-19 wave, ramping up medical oxygen supplies and transport, hiring health care workers, and augmenting infrastructure.The administration is also attempting to create its own model of predicting the onset of such waves, and launching a city-based graded response action plan (GRAP) based on positivity rate indicators. On Thursday, the Delhi government constituted a state-level expert committee to create a Covid-19 wave predictor and GRAP. It also formed a second panel to ensure required Covid-19 infrastructure is ready in time.The action plan comes at a time when experts have warned that a new wave of infections cannot be ruled out, especially due to the threat of more transmissible Sars-Cov-2 variants, low vaccination coverage, and the gradual lifting of the lockdown.“If the third wave (fifth for Delhi) of the coronavirus emerges, we have to be prepared in advance to fight it… The problems that emerged during the second wave should not be faced by the people of Delhi again… Those problems are now being resolved. Teams have been formed to ensure an adequate number of beds and better management of oxygen, and essential medicines,” CM Arvind Kejriwal said last week.Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain said the government was implementing plans to ramp up beds, opening up makeshift centres, and adding infrastructure in the hospitals.“Since the second wave began, Delhi government has been working to upgrade and enhance its medical infrastructure. Though cases have dipped, we continue to build infrastructure in preparation of a third wave. While we are working hard on vaccinating everyone in Delhi, the severe shortage of vaccinations in the country means that we have to be prepared for another wave before everyone gets vaccinated,” he said.Government orders on Thursday said top priority is to be given to medical oxygen and establishing strong supply-chain management of all essential items. During the peak of infections, the city needed 700 MT of oxygen on average daily but often suffered critical shortages.“Delhi’s base level consumption of medical oxygen is around 250-300MT. The plan is to make Delhi self-sufficient to this base level at least so that hospitals are not left to fend for themselves for oxygen. A cabinet note has been initiated to give generous financial incentives to any firm or individual hospital that wishes to set up a liquid medical oxygen manufacturing plant or oxygen generation plant or purchase cryogenic oxygen tankers,” said a senior government official wishing not to be named.“Orders for five buffer tanks have already been placed and shall be installed by June 10. Also, PSA oxygen plants have been installed in 11 Delhi government hospitals over the past one month. Additionally, 46 more plants will be installed within the next two months. So, in total, Delhi government will have 57 plants with a combined capacity of 64MT at 35,000 LPM,” said a Delhi government spokesperson.To help temporary Covid care centres and provide back-up for hospitals, oxygen cylinders and concentrators are being accumulated on a large scale.Experts said the recent Covid wave showed that besides normal care centres that accommodated patients with moderate symptoms, the city will need more beds with oxygen and critical care support, both in hospitals and informal set-ups.Dr Amit Singh, associate professor, Centre for Infectious Disease Research, Indian Institute of Science, Bengaluru said in the absence of large-scale vaccination, Delhi needs to be better prepared in terms of health infrastructure.“We need to see whether the number of beds have increased after the second wave. Do we have our own oxygen generation capacity? Is the oxygen coming from the industrial quota or is it medical grade oxygen which is of higher purity,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/health-infrastructure-gets-boost-as-delhi-preps-for-next-covid-wave-101622419461679.html
31-05-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: Shadows of Fatehpuri||These dark, shifting shapes are falling upon the walls and floor like arabesques. Every day they expand, contract, grow blurry and eventually disappear with the progress of hours.This interplay of shadows is to be marveled at in Fatehpuri Masjid. The world comes to this historic mosque in Old Delhi’s Chandni Chowk to gaze upon the regal aloofness of the principal dome, to lounge in the breeze of the sprawling courtyard, to watch the hyperactive fishes flickering in the vazu pool, to stroll about the surrounding spice shops, and to watch the evening sun setting behind the monument. But Fatehpuri’s most beautiful aspect goes unsung. No guidebook has written about it. The magic of shadows unfolds in the long corridor running along the three sides of the mosque complex.Also read: Need to revisit growth path amid climate crisisIn the early evening, at different times depending on the season, the many arches that punctuate the corridor reproduce themselves as dark dense outlines on the corridor floor and walls. They look like silhouettes of the actual arches, only softer, and more malleable.Some parts of the corridor are additionally ornamented with the laundry of the madrasa students, living here as hostel scholars. These clothes lie on the wash lines that are casually strung between the arches. Check lungis, worn track pants and towels—such are the glimpses of the private life of the rooms lining the corridors.This evening a veiled woman, probably a visitor to the mosque, is sitting idly in a corner of the courtyard. She is motionless and looking like the figure of a Mughal miniature, with the shadows of the arches falling behind her. Further along the corridor, but on the opposite side, an elderly man is lying sprawled on the floor, sleeping. Here, the shadows of the arches are painting his restful figure into curving stripes of light and shade.Later, as the sun departs, the shadows melt.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-shadows-of-fatehpuri-101622416525790.html
31-05-2021||Chandigarh||Akal Takht slams state govt for not providing vaccine to SGPC||Akal Takht acting jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh on Sunday flayed the Punjab government for not providing vaccine to the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) for organising free vaccination camps at gurdwaras. Speaking to mediapersons in Amritsar, he said, “The step taken by the SGPC to get people vaccinated on its own is a good initiative. It is a service to humanity. I would like to ask the Union government to provide vaccine to the state governments. It should also import vaccine from other countries. It should also allow religious organisations to import the vaccines directly so that maximum people are inoculated.” If a dera is converted into a vaccination centre, why not provide such facilities on the premises of gurdwaras which are already helping people since day one, he questioned.“The SGPC and DSGMC have already converted congregation halls of gurdwaras into Covid-care centres. Discriminating with the SGPC and other Sikh institutions is not good,” he added. Such arrangements with deras are aimed at garnering votes. This is not a good trend, he said. “Deaths of lakhs of people prove that the governments have failed to contain the virus infection across the country. They could not even provide oxygen to Covid patients,” the acting jathedar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/akal-takht-slams-state-govt-for-not-providing-vaccine-to-sgpc-101622405986176.html
31-05-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab kinnow growers worried as production likely to dip by 60%||Kinnow growers in Punjab are apprehending losses this year as the production is likely to go down with 60% decline in plant flowering. The state witnessed bumper crops in the last two seasons. An estimated 8 lakh metric tonne kinnow was produced in the state in 2020-21, it is learnt. Punjab leads the country in the cultivation of kinnow, with Fazilka district’s Abohar belt alone contributing up to 60% to the state’s total production. The fruit is cultivated on over 37,000 hectares in Punjab with a concentration in Fazilka and pockets of Muktsar, Bathinda and Hoshiarpur districts. HS Rattanpal, principal horticulturist, Punjab Agriculture University (PAU), said alternate bearing is common but this time inclement weather hit orchards at the flowering stage. Pardeep Dawra, a leading kinnow grower from Gidderanwali near Abohar, said the state would witness such a sharp decline in kinnow production after 18-20 years. “The last two seasons were encouraging when Punjab saw bumper crops. It is common that fruit yield drops after 1 or 2 bumper crop seasons, but this is exceptionally worrying. Climatic conditions in March were non-conducive for trees at flowering stage,” said Dawra. Balwinder Tikka, a progressive farmer from Muktsar’s Abul Khurana village, said more than 30% of his 100-acre orchard had no flowering at all while a sizeable area recorded less flowering in the rest of the farm. Tikka said most kinnow farmers would face losses as even higher rates in the coming season may not be able to compensate them for the drop in production. “At the flowering stage, a kinnow tree needs temperature between 25 and 30 degrees Celsius. But this year, the flowering window period in February and March was warmer, leading to a decrease in flowering. When fruit sets in the rest of the crop, storms in March and April caused fruit shedding,” he added. The kinnow rates are mainly determined by the production of the orange crop. Kinnow trader and grower Surinder Charaya said despite a fall in production, farmers may expect higher prices for their produce. “Kinnow has a major market in the states of Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Telangana and Gujarat. Market rates of kinnow may escalate significantly than the 2020-21 season’s average ₹9 per kg at farm gate if its availability remains limited. It is a wait-and-watch situation as most will depend upon the orange crop yield in Maharashtra’s Nagpur belt,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-kinnow-growers-worried-as-production-likely-to-dip-by-60-101622405924018.html
31-05-2021||Chandigarh||High-velocity winds damage 150 feeder lines in Punjab||High-velocity winds coupled with rain damaged nearly 150 feeders of the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) on Saturday, affecting nearly 15 lakh consumers. Mohali, Kharar, Dera Bassi, Bassi Pathana, Sirhind, Amloh, and Rajpura were the worst-hit, officials said. Most of the damage was caused as trees got uprooted and fell on electric wires. “Mohali and Fathegarh Sahib districts are the worst-affected. PSPCL teams are working since midnight and nearly 130 feeders were restored. We will restore the remaining lines soon. The squall caused a damage to the tune of ₹2.5 crore to the corporation,” said PSPCL director (distribution) DS Grewal. He said due to a massive speed of wind, some poles of high-tension wires were also damaged in Amloh and Fatehgarh Sahib, with a sizeable number of industrial units. “It will take time to repair inner city supplies where the damage was massive. The field staff from neghbouring districts was called to restore the lines,” said a PSPCL official. ‘Ready to provide 8-hour uninterrupted supply’ PSPCL chairman-cum-managing director (CMD) A Venu Prasad said the corporation is committed to ensure 8-hour uninterrupted power supply to agricultural tubewells daily in the upcoming paddy season and has made all the arrangements for the same. “We are prepared to meet the expected demand target of 14,000 megawatt (MW) power during the paddy season. Due to the pandemic-induced lockdown, labour migration and diversion of industrial oxygen, many industrial units in Punjab and elsewhere have either temporarily shut down or scaled down their production capacities. Appropriate measures are being taken to advance supplies and purchase orders to ensure that distribution of power remains smooth.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/highvelocity-winds-damage-150-feeder-lines-in-punjab-101622405504607.html
31-05-2021||Chandigarh||Barring Rewari, all Haryana districts report recovery rate above 90%||Haryana on Sunday recorded 1,452 new cases of Covid-19 and 89 fatalities while 42,589 samples were taken in past 24 hours, according to the health bulletin. There were 16,675 Covid positive patients in home isolation across the state and the active cases count came down to 21,087. At least 3,370 patients recovered from the infection on Sunday, pushing the recovery rate to 96.12%. Barring Rewari district where the recovery rate is 88.75%, all other districts recovery rate is well above 90%.However, the fatality rate that has been rising stood at 1.09%. Among the 89 deaths, Hisar had the highest fatalities, 10, followed by Gurugram and Panipat with eight deaths each, and Bhiwani and Fatehabad with seven deaths.Just five districts recorded over 100 new cases on Sunday with Gurugram detecting 110 cases, Faridabad 114, Hisar 140, Yamunanagar 121 and Sirsa 117. The new cases in at least 10 districts were over 50 and below 100. On Sunday, the state vaccinated 22,274 people, increasing the cumulative tally to 56.60 lakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/barring-rewari-all-haryana-districts-report-recovery-rate-above-90-101622403703364.html
31-05-2021||Chandigarh||Grains brim Punjab godowns, stock crosses all-time high||Godowns meant for food grain in Punjab are full to the brim and the wheat procured recently is lying in the open, vulnerable to the vagaries of weather. The state has all-time high stocks — 290 lakh tonnes (180 lakh tonnes wheat and 110 lakh tonnes rice) — for the three seasons from 2019-2021. Apart from this, 42 lakh tonnes of paddy need to be shelled and once that’s done, 28 lakh tonnes rice will require covered godowns for storage. Two years ago, the state stocks touched 320 lakh tonnes and this time, the state has 10 lakh tonnes more grains. Rice is stored in covered godowns and wheat can be stored in open plinths. The cause of worry for Punjab government is monthly movement of food grain from the state to consumer states has come to an all-time low of 10 lakh tonnes last month (April) against the average 18 lakh tonnes. More than one-third of the total (850 lakh tonnes) food grain stocks in the country is stored in Punjab (300 lakh tonnes) and there is no space in state godowns to store more. The state government has decided to urge the Centre advance disbursal of grain under the public distribution system (PDS) for six months. At least 110 lakh tonnes (out of total 132 lakh tonnes) wheat procured in the recent rabi season that earlier this month, is stored in open plinths, vulnerable to the vagaries of weather. The state government is not very happy with the pace of movement and wants the Centre of expedite, as it happened last year when the Centre started distributing food grain under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyaan Yojana (PMGKY) in advance for six months, keeping in view the lockdown due to Covid-19 pandemic. It peaked to 1.25 lakh tonnes on a single day last year, when 40 special good trains, took away grain from the state. “We want to expedite movement of food grain from the state and have written to the Food Corporation of India (FCI) to increase the movement so that our godowns have more space for the future procurements,” said secretary, food and civil supplies, Rahul Tiwari. State can store 280 lakh tonnes Punjab has a total storage capacity of 160 lakh tonnes in the covered godowns and 110 lakh tonnes in the open plinths. “We store up to 170 lakh tonnes in covered godowns and stocks in open plinths vary,” said an officer in the state food and civil supplies department. Nation’s monthly requirement for food grain under the PDS is 50 lakh tones. Punjab’s yearly requirement for PDS is 4.3 lakh tonnes. As the state food and civil supplies is pushing the Centre’s food and public distribution ministry to lift the grain from the godowns, the central agencies moved 15 lakh tonnes grain in May. Out of the wheat procured this rabi season, 8 lakh tonnes wheat has been kept for distribution in the state and 12 lakh tonnes sent outside the state under the PMGKY.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/grains-brim-punjab-godowns-stock-crosses-all-time-high-101622403643486.html
31-05-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana extends lockdown till June 7, malls allowed to open||Haryana government on Sunday extended the lockdown--termed as Mahamari Alert-Surakshit Haryana-- till the morning of June 7, allowing the reopening of shopping malls with curbs on gathering and permitting shops to open from 9am to 3pm from Monday. During the current lockdown that was to end at 5am on May 31, the Bharatiya Janata Party-Jannayak Janta Party coalition government had not allowed shopping malls to open while shops were running their businesses from 7am to 12noon by following the odd and even formula (shops with even numbers opening on even dates and shops with odd numbers on odd dates). As per the latest lockdown order issued by chief secretary Vijai Vardhan, the state will be under curfew from 10pm to 5am. Though malls will be allowed to open from 10am to 6pm, these will have to regulate the entry of public. Cinema halls, restaurants and bars located inside the malls will, however, remain closed. “Hotels are allowed to open with the condition that no banquets/conferences will be permitted. Restaurants and bars in hotels will also remain closed. Room occupancy will be allowed,” the chief secretary said in his two-page order about extending the lockdown.Earlier, addressing a digital press conference here, chief minister (CM) Manohar Lal Khattar said shopping malls will have to follow the prescribed visitor and time limitations. The number of people inside the malls at a given time will be fixed on the basis of one person per 25 square feet area. Hence, the number of people getting entry in a mall will depend on the built-up area of the shopping complex. The CM said mall owners have to develop a mobile application to check the entry and exit of people. They will have to formulate regulations for crowd control and get it approved from the deputy commissioners concerned, said Khattar. The CM said in view of the requests made by shopkeepers, vendors and businessmen, from Monday onwards shops can be opened from 9am to 3pm on odd-even basis.Government offices will continue to function with 50% staff strength. This is the fourth extension of the week-long lockdown which was first imposed in Haryana from May 3 morning in the face of rising Covid-19 infections in the state. Educational institutions, such as all colleges, coaching institutions, ITIs, libraries and training institutes (whether government or private), will remain closed till June 15. Anganwadi centres and creches will remain closed up to June 30. Industries will continue its operations following Covid-19 appropriate behaviour. The recovery rate improving from 78.70% on May 1 to 95.86% on May 29 is a testament of the lockdown helping Haryana to effectively deal with the devastating second wave. However, the number of black fungus cases is on the rise. At least 50 people have succumbed to black fungus out of about 750 cases detected so far. On the other hand, 58 people have also recovered from the fungal infection while 650 people are still under treatment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-extends-lockdown-till-june-7-malls-allowed-to-open-101622403223391.html
31-05-2021||Other||Kaithal Covid-19 victim’s family booked for cremating body without informing health dept||The Kaithal police have booked family members of a Covid victim for allegedly cremating the body without informing the health department.As per the police, the FIR was registered on the complaint of senior medical officer Dr Pragati. The patient, who was a resident of Pinjupura village, had died on May 11 and family members cremated his body without following Covid protocol. They told the villagers that he died of diabetes. Later, officials of the health department came to know about it and started investigation. It was found that he was a Covid patient and was taking treatment at a private hospital and was later referred to PGIMS, Rohtak. He died on the way to the hospital.Police said the FIR has been registered under Sections 188, 269 and 270 of the Indian Penal Code and Sections 51 and 54 of the Disaster Management Act against the family members of the deceased at Kalayat police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kaithal-covid-19-victim-s-family-booked-for-cremating-body-without-informing-health-dept-101622402983223.html
31-05-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana govt adopts child with special needs who lost his adoptive parents to Covid||Moved by the story of a 16-year-old child with special needs, who lost his adoptive parents to Covid-19, chief minister (CM) Manohar Lal Khattar on Sunday announced that the Haryana government will adopt him.The child, who suffers from mental disabilities as well as visual and speech impairment, was orphaned in childhood and adopted by a couple from Faridabad. However, Covid-19 snatched away his adoptive parents, leaving him all alone once again. While his adopted father succumbed to the virus on May 14, his adoptive mother lost her battle on May 21.After their death, the child was shifted to Deep Ashram from Faridabad after clearance from the Child Welfare Council. “On Sunday, CM Khattar was apprised of the child’s plight during his visit to Deep Ashram. He immediately announced to adopt the child on behalf of the government. The state government will bear all the expenses of the child’s upbringing and care,” an official spokesperson said. Khattar also met other children with special needs who are living in the ashram and receiving special education. The CM said children who have lost both parents to Covid-19 will be looked after under Mukhyamantri Bal Sewa Yojana and that Prime Minister Narendra Modi has also announced a financial package to be given through PM Cares Fund for securing the future and better upbringing of such children till the age of 23.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-govt-adopts-child-with-special-needs-who-lost-his-adoptive-parents-to-covid-101622402743381.html
31-05-2021||Chandigarh||J&K logs lowest daily deaths in 30 days||With the second wave of the coronavirus pandemic ebbing, Jammu and Kashmir recorded 29 Covid-induced fatalities on Sunday, the lowest daily death-toll in 30 days. The 2,256 fresh infections took the overall cases in the UT to 2, 88,940, while the death toll now stands at 3,870. This month, the UT recorded the highest deaths (73) on May 17. As many as 3,805 patients recovered on Sunday — 2,351 from Kashmir and 1,454 from Jammu. The active positive now stand at 37,677 against a high of 52,848 cases recorded on May 13.In an all-time high, J&K had 1,12,857 infections and 1,588 fatalities in the month of May while 1 lakh patients successfully beat the virus. The second wave, which peaked in teh first half of the month, has now hit a plateau in the second half. So far, 2,47,393 people have recovered in the UT, taking the recovery rate to 85.62%.Of the deaths, 20 were reported in Jammu division and nine in Kashmir. Of the new cases, 1,433 are from Kashmir while 823 are from Jammu and 37 are travellers.Dr Imran Hafeez, consultant cardiologist and associate professor, Sher-I-Kashmir Institute of Medical Sciences, said patients suffering from heart disease such as Ischemic disease or heart failure, are at high risk and stressed on the need of vaccinating such patients.The officials said that 41,791 tests were conducted in the past 24 hours in the UT with the overall number of tests reaching 8.53 million. Officials said with 350 cases, Srinagar had the highest number of new infections, followed by 339 in Jammu district, 190 in Ganderbal, 170 in Budgam and 164 in Baramulla. Srinagar and Jammu districts have together contributed around 1.15 lakh cases and 1,821 deaths of the total. Jammu has the highest number fatalities at 1,055 fatalities, followed by Srinagar with 766 deaths .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jk-logs-lowest-daily-deaths-in-30-days-101622402205326.html
31-05-2021||Other||1,150 beneficiaries jabbed in 3 hrs at Karnal’s drive-through facility||The district administration’s drive-through vaccination scheme for the 18-plus category got an overwhelming response on Sunday with over 1,150 people getting the jab within three hours. The administration had launched the drive-through vaccination facility on Balri bypass near NDRI in Karnal to cater to those who were unable to get the jabs due to vaccine shortage. Soon after the drive began at 8am, a long queue of vehicles could be seen on the road which was closed for the general public. Deputy commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav said the drive-through vaccination got a good response on the first day as 1,157 people got the jab from the comfort of their vehicles. He said that after taking the jab, people were kept under observation for 30 minutes. Those who turned up to receive the jabs were also largely impressed with the ease of the process.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/1150-beneficiaries-jabbed-in-3-hrs-at-karnal-s-drive-through-facility-101622402083466.html
31-05-2021||Other||Yogi Adityanath announces ₹10 lakh assistance for kin of journalists who died due to Covid-19||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday announced ₹10 lakh aid for the family members of journalists who died due to Covid-19, said a statement from the state government. He made the announcement on the occasion of Hindi Journalism Day.“From the freedom movement to the present times, Hindi journalism has had an unprecedented contribution in social awakening and nation-building. My greetings to all journalists on Hindi Journalism Day,” he said.He also said that the government was committed to providing all support and will continue to encourage journalists.“During such challenging and testing times, all the journalists and media workers have risked their lives to bring to us all the relevant and authentic information. They have worked 24x7 which is commendable,” he said.During the second wave of the pandemic, many journalists across the country got infected while on duty and lost their lives, leaving their families helpless, the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/yogi-adityanath-announces-rs-10-lakh-assistance-for-kin-of-journalists-who-died-due-to-covid19-101622401842559.html
31-05-2021||Chandigarh||Sikh, Hindu refugees in Punjab elated as Centre opens doors for citizenship||Sikh and Hindu refugees living in Ludhiana have hailed the Union government’s move to invite applications from immigrants belonging to minority communities from Afghanistan, Pakistan and Bangladesh for Indian citizenship.There are around 40 such families living in Ludhiana and 24 in Khanna. A majority of them sell fruits, vegetables and clothes.They expressed happiness and thanked the government for enacting a law that makes them eligible to be citizens of the country. Among them are widows of Shanker Singh and Jeevan Singh, who were killed by terrorists in the Kabul gurdwara attack on March 25, 2020. Both Paramjeet Kaur, 45, and Harpreet Kaur, 40, are living life in penury after the death of their husbands.While Paramjeet, who lives in Chhawani Mohalla, has three daughters; Harpreet, who is staying in a one-room rented house in Kara Bara, is doing odd jobs to feed her two children.Paramjeet said for the past several years, she was desperately trying for a ration card. “As the government has started formalities to grant citizenship, it will ease the documentation process,” she said.Similarly, Harpreet Kaur said: “The case pertaining to the compensation in lieu of killing of my husband was hanging fire as he was an Afghan national and his file for citizenship was pending. Now, I will be able to pursue the matter.”Amreek Singh, a Sikh refugee, who had come from Kabul and has been living in Ludhiana since 2013, also expressed happiness over the move. “As terrorists were flushing out minorities from Afghanistan, I took refuge in India. As we were not citizens of this country, we were not eligible for an Aadhaar card. Nowadays, everything is linked to Aadhaar and one cannot avail any benefits being offered by the government without this document.”Shammi Singh, who came to India in 2012 from Afghanistan, said: “Once we get Indian citizenship, all our problems will be resolved. We will be able to apply for Aadhaar card, ration card and other documents to live life with dignity.”Running a vegetable vend in Khanna, Pujari Lal, 41, who till now was living as an illegal immigrant, is heaving a sigh of relief. He was among 25 people from Kohat city in the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province of Pakistan, who had overstayed in India after being targeted by Islamic fundamentalist.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sikh-hindu-refugees-in-punjab-elated-as-centre-opens-doors-for-citizenship-101622401663083.html
31-05-2021||Chandigarh||Farmers slam central, state govts for labelling them Covid super-spreaders||Patiala Farmers under the banner of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Ugarahan) concluded their three-day protest in Patiala on Sunday against the Punjab government for its alleged failure in tackling Covid crisis and imposing restrictions across the state.Senior leaders of the union and Samyukt Kisan Morcha addressed the gathering of around 2,000 farmers. Slamming the central and state governments, Joginder Singh, state president of the union, said it is shameful that the authorities are targeting and labelling farmers as Covid super-spreaders. “Farmers are fighting for their rights against the three farm laws. Instead of resolving the matter, the central government is hell-bent on putting the onus of Covid spread in rural areas on farmers,” Joginder said.The farmer union also asked the state government to take private hospitals under its ambit to provide Covid treatment to patients at controlled rates.On the three farm laws, morcha leader Balbir Singh Rajewal said despite writing to the Centre to resume talks, farmers have not received any invite as yet.“The farmers are sitting at Delhi borders for past over six months, holding guard against centre government, which is testing our patience. We will sit and protest till the government rolls back these acts,” Rajewal said.He said the central government should give compensation of ₹10 lakh each and government job kin of those who died while protesting at Delhi borders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/farmers-slam-central-state-govts-for-labelling-them-covid-superspreaders-101622401185756.html
31-05-2021||Chandigarh||Lawyer’s assistant robbed of car for not defending jailed gangster Rajiv Raja||An advocate’s assistant was robbed of his car at knifepoint after they refused to defend jailed gangster Rajiv Raja, police said on Sunday.The victim, Gagandeep Singh, 31, of Indrapuri, Tajpur Road, was robbed of his Maruti Suzuki Zen near Khwaja Kothi Chowk in Old City area on May 23. However, he filed a complaint only on Saturday, as the accused had threatened him to stay mum.Following his statement, police have booked the accused, Rajan, and his two unidentified accomplices and initiated investigation to trace them and the car.Singh told the police that he worked as an assistant with an advocate at the district courts. He knew Rajan, who is an aide of hardcore criminal Rajiv Raja, for the past couple of years. Rajan was facing trials in different cases of NDPS Act and robbery. He was also arrested in 2019 for hatching a conspiracy to help Raja escape from jail, and had now been extorting money from people with the help of Raja, who was still active behind the bars.“My senior at work is handling a court case for Rajan, who had been pressuring him to also help Raja secure bail. But after my senior refused to take the case, Rajan started threatening me,” Singh alleged.On May 23, he was on his way to pick up something to eat, when Rajan waylaid his car near Khwaja Kothi Chowk. He threatened him with a sharp-edged weapon and sped away with his car after warning him against revealing the matter to police.ASI Jagdeesh Raj, who is investigating the case, said they had booked Rajan and his accomplices under Sections 379-B (snatching), 341 (wrongful restraint), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 34 (act done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code. Further investigation is underway to nab them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/lawyers-assistant-robbed-of-car-for-not-defending-jailed-gangster-rajiv-raja-101622401122905.html
31-05-2021||Chandigarh||In patriarchal society, it’s common to cast aspersions on woman’s character, says HC||The Punjab and Haryana high court has said that in a patriarchal society, it is fairly common to cast aspersions on the moral character of a woman.“More often than not, these allegations are made without any basis or foundation. Even assuming a woman is or has been in an extramarital relationship, the same by itself cannot lead to the conclusion that she would not be a good mother to deny her the custody of her child,” the high court bench of justice Anupinder Singh Grewal said, while granting custody of a minor girl to an NRI woman.The woman had approached high court seeking custody arguing that the child is, at present, 4 ½ years of age and the mother is the natural guardian of the child as per the Section 6 of the Hindus Minority and Guardianship Act, 1956, wherein the custody of a child under 5 years would be with the mother The husband had alleged that the woman was involved in a relationship with one of his relatives and the relationship led to a marital discord between them. It was also argued that the minor child is residing with the father and grandparents in a cordial family environment for almost a year and the change of the custody at this stage would not be in the interest of the child, especially when the woman is living alone. The court observed that no supporting material has been brought before the court by husband and the allegations against the woman being wholly unsubstantiated are not considered relevant to adjudicate the issue of custody of the child. “Modern times are replete with the instances of children raised by a single parent having grown as responsible adults contributing to nation building in various fields,” the bench said, rejecting the argument that the child raised by the single parent would be at a disadvantage.The court also took note of the fact that there is an order of the Australian court in the woman’s favour, who is settled in that country and earns well. “I am of the considered view that it would be in the best interest and welfare of the child if her custody is handed to the mother,” the court said ordering the transfer of custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/in-patriarchal-society-it-s-common-to-cast-aspersions-on-woman-s-character-says-hc-101622401064398.html
31-05-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana’s daily Covid cases drop to 298, lowest in 72 days||For the first time in 72 days, Ludhiana’s Covid-19 cases fell below the 300 mark, as 298 people tested positive for the virus. The fresh cases were in line with the second wave’s downward trend since May 9 when the district had logged a record high of 1,729 cases. Since hitting this peak, cases have dropped by 82% in the following three weeks.The last time Ludhiana recorded single-day cases below 300 was on March 19 when 292 residents were found positive. On the deaths’ front, 12 people succumbed to the virus, down from 14 on Saturday. Sunday’s death count was the lowest since April 26 when 10 people had died. In the 34 days since, the daily fatalities have remained higher, reaching the peak of 30 twice, on May 10 and 11.The latest fatalities included nine men and three, with the youngest being a 27- year-old woman and the oldest a 71-year-old man. On another positive note, the active cases slipped below the 5,000 mark for the first time in 41 days. Now, 4,740 people are under treatment – 5.6% of the 83,892 cases till date. Among them, 25 patients are on ventilator supportWith 77,161 people being cured so far, the district’s recovery rate stands at 91.98%. No drop in case fatality ratio Still worrisome is the rising case fatality ratio. Though cases have dropped steadily on a weekly basis through May, the case fatality ratio – proportion of Covid patients that died – has been on the uptick.This could be attributed to most deceased losing the battle after a long hospital stay, said civil surgeon Dr Kiran Ahluwalia Gill. “A lot of patients also report to the hospital only in a critical stage. As cases have been receding for weeks, the CFR should also come down in the next fortnight,” she said.Three more cases of black fungusThree fresh cases of mucormycosis or black fungus cropped up in Ludhiana on Sunday. The fungal infection has claimed seven lives in Ludhiana so far, including five from other districts. As many as 72 patients are undergoing treatment for the disease in different city hospitals. Among them 44 are from other districts. On Saturday, the health department had stated that eight people had succumbed due to black fungus so far. But, a committee formed to examine the cases found that one of the deaths was not due to black fungus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhianas-daily-covid-cases-drop-to-298-lowest-in-72-days-101622401063213.html
31-05-2021||Other||After Varanasi, Ganga water turns green in Prayagraj||Scientists cite bloom of microcystis algae as a possible cause behind colour change of river water  After Varanasi, now water of Ganga in Prayagraj has turned green. Most residents of Sangam city residing in localities close to the banks of Ganga have noticed this change in colour in the past two days. But on Sunday, the Ganga right from Rasoolabad to Sangam has donned a green hue. The water at Rasulabad Ghat is noticeably green and muddy. However, the water of the national river at Phaphamau is bearing the green tinge and this hue can be spotted even at Shivkuti, Salori and Daraganj areas. This change in colour has also been noticed by the scientists who cite algal bloom as a possible cause behind it. Prof Grijesh Kumar, coordinator of Allahabad University’s Centre of Environmental Studies said that the greenish appearance of the river could be due to microcystis algae.“Speaking on the basis of just visual observation, the change of colour appears to be because of the algae named microcystis, which is found in stagnant water. The fact that water of Ganga is almost still these days could have resulted in the algal bloom,” he said. Another possible explanation could be that the algae might have come from some drains or stagnant source during the recent rains that have lashed the area, said Prof Kumar. Noted botanist Prof DK Chauhan of AU said the algae in Ganga could be due to increased nutrients in the water as phosphate, sulphur and nitrate are known nutrients that help it grow and these nutrients could come from sewage during the rains sparking the process of photosynthesis with the help of sunlight.He however said that it was a natural process seen between March and May if conditions permit and the algae would disappear as the flow of the river water gains pace. However, he did warn that if condition persists for long duration, it can prove harmful for fishes and drinking this water could prove harmful for both man and animals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/after-varanasi-ganga-water-turns-green-in-prayagraj-101622401003141.html
31-05-2021||Chandigarh||Be courageous, answer call of conscience: Bajwa to Congmen||Chandigarh A day before the three-member committee is scheduled to start meeting leaders from Punjab to try and end factionalism in the state unit, Congress Rajya Sabha member Partap Singh Bajwa on Sunday urged his party colleagues to be courageous and answer the call of their conscience. Bajwa, who is among the party leaders carrying out anti-Amarinder tirade over the sacrilege-related cases and other poll promises, said the Almighty and people of Punjab were watching. “Be courageous and answer the call of your conscience. The almighty and people of Punjab are watching,” he tweeted even as more than two dozen party ministers and MLAs reached Delhi to meet the panel headed by leader of opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge. All India Congress Committee (AICC) general secretary in-charge of Punjab affairs Harish Rawat and former Delhi Congress president Jai Prakash Agarwal are the other members of the committee constituted by Congress president Sonia Gandhi to resolve the rift in Punjab unit where Bajwa, former minister Navjot Singh Sidhu and half-a-dozen other leaders have been targeting chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh over the legal setback in the Kotkapura police firing case. The committee, which has decided to meet the chief minister, ministers, present and ex-state unit chiefs, MPs, MLAs and other leaders one by one, will start the exercise with Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar and then meet two dozen ministers and MLAs, half of them from Malwa region, on Monday to hear their suggestions and grievances. Several cabinet ministers, including the two who are discontented with the CM’s handling of sacrilege cases, are among those scheduled to meet the panel on day one. Former minister Navjot Singh Sidhu and Jalandhar Cantonment MLA Pargat Singh, both among Amarinder’s most strident critics in the state Congress, are scheduled to meet Kharge and others on Tuesday. “We will meet MPs, former state unit chiefs and other senior leaders thereafter followed by the chief minister on Thursday or Friday in all probability,” Rawat said. While former Congress president Rahul Gandhi has called up a few party leaders, including ministers and MLAs, for first-hand feedback, some MLAs and MPs have made request for an audience with him while they are in Delhi to meet the three-member panel. The state assembly polls are due in the state early next year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/be-courageous-answer-call-of-conscience-bajwa-to-congmen-101622400942905.html
31-05-2021||Other||UP govt to go for rigorous enforcement of Covid-19 curbs in 20 districts||The Uttar Pradesh government is considering rigorous enforcement of the existing Covid-19 restrictions in 20 districts that have more than 600 active Covid cases.The move is meant to ensure that that the active cases fall below the 600-level and pave the way for the easing of the partial corona curfew in these districts too.Among the 20 districts, Meerut had the highest number of active cases at 2806 and Deoria the least number at 612 on Sunday. Lucknow had 2450 active cases.The other districts with more than 600 active cases are Saharanpur, Varanasi, Ghaziabad, Gorakhpur, Muzaffarnagar, Bareilly, Gautam Buddha Nagar, Bulandshahr, Jhansi, Prayagraj, Lakhimpur Kheri, Sonbhadra, Jaunpur, Bagpat, Moradabad, Ghazipur and Bijnor.“The state government is considering rigorous enforcement of existing restrictions in 20 districts so that cases fall there soon,” said a state government official.Additional chief secretary (Home) Awanish Kumar Awasthi said: “Now, the districts have a kind of competition to work harder to bring down active cases below 600. Two district magistrates have said that will possibly bring down the number of active cases in their districts within a day.”While ordering the easing of the partial corona curfew, chief minister Yogi Adityanath said the state saw a decline by 87% in active Covid cases in a month’s time.WHAT’S ALLOWED, WHAT’S NOTThe daily night curfew and weekend closure will continue across the state.Any district where the number of active Covid cases falls below 600 will automatically have relaxations. Whenever the cases in a district go up to 600, the restrictions will automatically be reimposed.Shopping malls, cinema halls, gyms, coaching institutes, swimming pools and clubs will stay closed all over the state.Weddings (in closed or open spaces) cannot have more than 25 guests. Funeral procession cannot have more than 20 persons. Schools, colleges, education institutions will continue to stay closed statewide for academic activities. Online education/teaching will continue as per the department’s orders.Teaching and non-teaching staff will be allowed to go to these education institutions for administrative work.Banks, insurance companies, and similar financial institutions will function statewide.State transport corporation buses allowed to operate within the state with the rider that passengers would not exceed the prescribed seating capacity. No standing travel allowed.Religious places outside containment zones cannot have more than five persons at a time statewide.Full staff attendance in all government offices that have Covid frontline functioning. 50% attendance at a time (in shifts) in other government offices. All offices will have Covid helpdesk.Private companies’ offices too will open but they should continue to promote and encourage work from home culture. All of them must have helpdesks.All industrial institutions will function, and staff movement will be allowed with valid identity cards.Vegetable mandis (wholesale markets) will open, but those in heavily populated areas will operate from such places that are less congested.Railway stations, airports, roadways bus stations will open with Covid protocols, Covid screening and antigen testing facilities.Restaurants allowed to open for home deliveries. Roadside (highway and expressway) dhabas, vendors and kiosks will be allowed to function.Transport and logistics companies allowed to open.People allowed to commute on two-wheelers according to the prescribed seating capacity and helmets. Masks are a must; three-wheelers can have only two passengers.Four-wheelers cannot have more than four persons.Eggs, meat, fish shops allowed to function with the desired cleanliness and sanitization.All agriculture related work and establishments will open.All construction activities allowed, be it government or private.What’s eased for districts with less than 600 active Covid casesRelaxation on weekdays will mean that all markets and shops can open from 7am to 7pm from Monday to Friday. Both the shopkeepers and customers will have to follow Covid safety protocols.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/up-govt-to-go-for-rigorous-enforcement-of-covid-19-curbs-in-20-districts-101622400707005.html
31-05-2021||Chandigarh||Missing Sikh man in Pak found after three months||A Sikh man in Pakistan, who was missing since February after being abducted from his home, has been found by the police in a village in the country’s northwest Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province.Avinash Singh, in his 20s, went missing from the Gulberg area of Peshawar Cantonment on February 28.According to police, Singh was found on Friday night from a village near Laachi Tehsil of district Kohat.He has been admitted to Lady Reading Hospital Peshawar as he was severely tortured by the abductors, they said.Four accused, including a woman, who were named in the case filed by Singh’s father have been arrested.The family members of Singh said he was tortured by the abductors during his captivity.SSP Operations Peshawar Yasir Afridi and SP City Attique Shah visited Singh in the hospital and enquired about his health.All the legal formalities would be fulfilled in the case, Afridi said.Last month, members of the Sikh community protested in Pakistan’s Peshawar city, demanding the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa provincial government find the missing youth.Speaking at the protest outside the Peshawar Press Club, community leader Sardar Parvinder Singh had said the missing youth was well-educated and his family had no ill-relations.Scores of protesters, including women and children, had demonstrated, holding banners and placards. They alleged Singh had been kidnapped by the anti-social elements.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/missing-sikh-man-in-pak-found-after-three-months-101622400522841.html
31-05-2021||Lucknow||Stalled housing projects: Aggrieved homebuyers plan to approach NCLT if UPRERA fails to help||: Homebuyers waiting for possession of their flats have decided to approach the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) against promoters in case the Uttar Pradesh (UP) Real Estate Regulatory Authority (RERA) was unable to resolve their issue. Under the banner of UP Aggrieved Home Buyers Rights Association, homebuyers have decided to analyse all pending housing projects and subsequently take a decision whether to approach the NCLT or not. Many housing projects across the state are pending and homebuyers are running from pillar to post for completion of the projects. The UP RERA is also hearing complaints against several promoters whose projects are pending. “A large number of housing projects are pending. For the past several years homebuyers are making all efforts to get possession of flats. Many of them have also approached the UP RERA,” said Alok Singh, convenor, Uttar Pradesh Aggrieved Home Buyers Rights Association. “We are collecting details of all pending housing projects in which promoters have defaulted and have failed to handover possession of flats to homebuyers on time. Thereafter, we will find out how many of them are with the UP RERA,” added Singh. “We will check if the UP RERA is unable to resolve the issue or address complaints of homebuyers then the NCLT will be approached as a last resort,” he said. According to experts, NCLT is the last resort for homebuyers as it emphasises on liquidation and bankruptcy proceedings of the defaulter companies. “The NCLT must only be approached when there is no possibility left for revival of the project,” said a UP RERA official. In the recent past, the UP RERA has successfully revived two housing projects in Noida. Construction work at the housing project, ‘Jaypee Greens Knight Court’, of Jaiprakash Associates Limited, which was stalled since 2014, restarted under the observation of the UP RERA in February this year. The project will be completed within 15 months. Work at this multi tower group housing development project in Sector 128, Noida, had stopped in 2014 and its registration date lapsed in December last. It has eight towers and there are 310 allottees. Around 60 percent of the project work had been completed before it was stalled due to various reasons. On January 29 last, the UP RERA had ordered the promoter, Jaiprakash Associates Limited, with the consent of the Association of Allottees of the project, Jaypee Greens Knight Court, to complete the project. Earlier, the UP RERA had instituted a co-operative model to complete the Kalypso Court Project of Jaypee Associates Ltd.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/stalled-housing-projects-aggrieved-homebuyers-plan-to-approach-nclt-if-uprera-fails-to-help-101622400462373.html
31-05-2021||Mumbai||Second wave: Airlines, DGCA help staff fight anxiety, fear||Restrictions on domestic and international travel due the Covid-19 pandemic and subsequent lockdowns have resulted in massive job losses, pay cuts and furloughs in the domestic aviation industry over the past 14 months, leading to increased stress for airlines and employees.While air crew are stressed and suffer from anxiety, ground staff have also reported being stressed due to the present work situation as they have to ensure seamless movement of passengers and cargo. With no escape from work, the country’s aviation regulator and airlines are helping their employees cope with the situation and their fear of getting exposed to the virus.In addition to following all directives and protocols issued by the ministry of health and family welfare and other related organisations, Arun Kumar, director general of Directorate of General of Civil Aviation (DGCA), said, “Besides providing a facility of a consultation with doctors of the medical cell, a core group has also been formed to interact with various officers and staff and see to their immediate needs and requirements. We are also processing remuneration of employees and contractual staff on time.”Airlines are doing their bit to ensure a stable work environment. IndiGo, for instance, has tied up with a leading employees assistance programme 1to1help desk. “Under this initiative, employees are free to avail telephonic counselling services to adapt to the changing reality and manage the psychological effects of the pandemic,” IndiGo said. Under VistaraCARE, the management of Tata Group-Singapore Airlines jointly owned airline has been engaging in one-on-one check-ins with department heads and regular virtual meetings that help managers detect and address concerns and foster team collaboration. “Activities like online yoga, inspirational talks by experts, contests using various tools and digital platforms are conducted to reunite and motivate everyone. However, the tonality, humour etc. in communication is moderated in light of the current situation,” said the Delhi-based full service airline.An international study conducted in April last year, stated that levels of stress, anxiety and depression among air crew have risen because of the pandemic and the societal response to it.“When you come to know that a colleague is critical or has passed away due to Covid-19, it becomes very disturbing. Initially you fail to realise the tragedy but then gradually, reality sets in and impacts your mental health,” said a pilot.As the fear and anxiety of contracting the virus continues, DGCA has arranged vaccination camps for both full-time and contractual staff and their family members. Airlines, too, have started organising vaccination camps, catering to not only the flying crew but also ground staff which includes loaders, air side staff and desk staff at airports to help reduce their stress levels.“Every employee, be it on air or on ground, is worried about stepping out and working. The possibility of contracting the virus cannot be ruled out at airports. However, from the first week of May, majority of airlines have been setting up vaccination camps for their employees for a healthy working environment,” a former airline official said.The Airports Authority of India (AAI) also organised regular online awareness and training sessions to allay fears and doubts among employees. “The training programmes were conducted through empanelled hospitals to raise awareness about Covid-19 and its effects. We began with dos and don’ts in the times of Covid, covering 100 participants. We have conducted sessions on diet, exercises, mindfulness, stress management and relaxation. To extend the benefit of online sessions, contract workers were also covered through online training programmes.”BoxAviation is a high-risk, high-reliability and safety-critical industry. Covid-19 pandemic, with all its associated consequences, has had a significant impact on the mental health and wellbeing of both passengers and aviation personnel, which could impact operational safety. For majority of the workforce in the industry, factors such as salary deductions, furloughs, risk of getting infected themselves and even becoming a carrier for their loved ones, affect their mental health. Their fear of catching the virus either during the commute or at work is always lurking in their mind. - International Civil Aviation Organisation, a specialised agency of the United Nations, document.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/second-wave-airlines-dgca-help-staff-fight-anxiety-fear-101622400343089.html
31-05-2021||Mumbai||Without switch to green energy, EVs can increase CO2 emissions in MMR by 7%-26%||Introducing electric vehicles (EVs) in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) without adopting sustainable modes of generating electricity may lead to a 7% to 26% increase in carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions by 2050, finds a recent study by researchers at the Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay (IIT-B). On the other hand, switching to greener modes of electricity generation can bring carbon dioxide emissions down by 27% to 41%. The study by Deepjyoti Das, Pradip Kalbar and Nagendra Velaga was published in the peer-reviewed Journal of Cleaner Production on May 1. Das is a PhD scholar at the Centre for Urban Science Engineering (CUSE), Kalbar is an assistant professor at CUSE and Velaga is an associate professor in the Department of Civil Engineering of the institute. They found that transport carbon dioxide emissions can rise significantly if EVs continue to be charged with electricity generated from fossil fuels. “EVs can be a better solution than internal combustion engines (ICE) if the major fraction of the electricity used to charge the batteries is produced from renewable energy and there is minimal transmission and distribution loss in the grid,” said Das. As part of the Paris Climate Agreement (COP21) in 2015 to limit global temperature rise to well below 2°C, India has committed to reduce its carbon emissions by 30% to 35% by 2030. This commitment is part of India’s Intended Nationally Determined Contributions (INDCs). With a 2030 target of replacing at least 30% of new vehicle sales by EVs, the Central government is driving policies that encourage use of EVs. Some policies include incentives under the Faster Adoption and Manufacturing of Hybrid and Electric Vehicles (FAME) scheme supported under the National Electric Mobility Mission Plan as well as income tax exemption and GST reduction from 12% to 5% for EVs. Researchers at IIT-B estimated the contribution of EVs in reducing carbon dioxide emissions and fulfilling emission targets of 2030 and 2050 in 11 different scenarios. They sought to answer four questions: Will MMR achieve the 2030 and 2050 emission targets stated in the INDC by continuing existing policies? To what extent can EVs help achieve INDCs and COP21’s targets under different scenarios? Which scenario will be justified for MMR in fulfilling 2050 targets? What is the extent of contribution resulting from decarbonisation of electricity grids and reduction in transmission and distribution losses of electricity in achieving these targets? The base scenario considered for the study is one where existing environment and transportation policies continue but without the introduction of EVs. In the remaining 10 scenarios, the researchers considered various levels of introduction of EVs, with green energy and transmission and distribution losses in electricity grids accounted for. As of 2018, carbon dioxide emissions from passenger transportation were at 2.2 million tonnes. If existing policies are to continue without the introduction of EVs, the cumulative passenger transport sector’s carbon dioxide emissions in MMR can reach 160.97 million tonnes by 2050. Introducing EVs, that account for 30% of all vehicles, can drive carbon dioxide emissions up to 172.4 million tonnes. Replacing all vehicles with EVs can further increase emissions to 202.18 million tonnes, the study found. Minimising transmission and distribution losses in electricity grid will result in additional 1%, 2%, and 5% reductions in carbon dioxide emissions. “The policy of pushing adopting EVs appears to be based on the global image of EVs being a green and environment-friendly option. The image on one front is justified as EVs have zero tailpipe emissions, which will help reduce air pollution from urban areas. On the other hand, if reducing total emissions from the transportation sector and reaching the COP21 target is concerned, then promoting EVs may not yield the best results for India,” said Kalbar. This is because EVs are charged using electricity grids, which are primarily coal-based. “So even though EVs have zero tailpipe emissions, overall carbon dioxide emissions are higher. A parallel focus is required to accelerate the increase in share of renewable energy in the energy sector and minimise transmission and distribution losses, which currently account for 20% to 25%,” Kalbar added. However, switching to renewable energy and reducing transmission and distribution losses, can bring down emissions by 27% to 41%. Darpan Das, a postdoctoral fellow at the John Hopkins University who was not a part of the study, said the methodology of the IIT-B study can be used for estimating regional transportation sector’s carbon budget. “There are very limited studies carried out in India which focus on the methodology to estimate regional sectoral carbon budget from global carbon budget. The present study is an important attempt in this aspect, where researchers deploy this methodology in MMR region’s transportation sector to estimate the carbon budget in different scenarios. The findings indicate that with existing technologies, MMR will miss the national carbon budget by 55%-250%. EVs alone will not be sufficient to meet the targets,” said Darpan. Pawan Mulukutla, director of Electric Mobility - Sustainable Cities at the Indian chapter of World Resources Institute, said the study focuses on the need for charging stations for EVs that use renewable energy. “It is absolutely correct that EVs, in isolation, may not have as big an impact on emissions. A comprehensive effort to move towards renewable energy and adopting EVs will give us the best results. In urban areas, a switch towards public transport will also help reduce emissions,” he said. While the need to switch to clean energy grows simultaneously as EVs find greater acceptance, setting up infrastructure for the same might take time. “The cycles of technology transition are different for transportation and energy. For transportation, it is happening faster. One regulatory push for reducing emissions in urban areas can be to have charging stations that use renewable energy,” said Mulukutla. Apart from public transport, IIT-B researchers also suggest alternatives such as improving fuel efficiency of ICE vehicles. By improving ICE vehicle’s efficiency by 20% to 40%, a significant reduction of 12% to 24% in emissions can be achieved by 2050. While the study estimates carbon dioxide emissions, it does not take into account other harmful emissions from internal combustion engine vehicles such as carbon monoxide, nitrogen oxides and sulphur oxides. “The health and social benefits of EVs that do not emit these harmful pollutants are not considered in the study,” Mulukutla added. “With our study, we are trying to highlight the cascading effects of adopting EVs without proper planning. More comprehensive studies can be done to understand other aspects of EVs. A comprehensive policy for urban mobility for each city or region needs to be developed,” Kalbar added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/without-switch-to-green-energy-evs-can-increase-co2-emissions-in-mmr-by-726-101622400342323.html
31-05-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai-based environment group objects to draft fly ash management rules||A city-based environment group has written to the Union environment ministry registering its objections to the latest draft notification pertaining to the use of fly ash, a by-product of coal combustion by thermal power plants (TPP). The draft notification, which aims to achieve “100% utilisation of fly ash by coal- or lignite-based thermal power plants” and “sustainability of fly ash management system”, is open for public feedback for a period of two months from April 22.The Conservation Action Trust (CAT), an environment group headquartered in Ghatkopar, has submitted 20 comments on the draft notification, which can be accessed on the ministry’s website. Experts who spoke to Hindustan Times expressed concern at three broad additions to the draft rules, which were last amended in 2016.The first of these is the inclusion of a clause that imposes penalties on power plants that do not meet their targeted utilisation of fly ash, as included in paragraph 20 of the draft rules. “In the first two years of a three-year cycle, if the coal/ lignite-based thermal power plant... has not achieved at least 80% ash utilisation, then such non-compliant TPPs shall be imposed with a fine of ₹1,000 per tonne on unutilised ash during the end of financial year... If it is unable to utilise 100% of ash in the third year of the three-year cycle, it would be liable to pay a fine of ₹1,000 per tonne of unutilised quantity on which fine has not been imposed earlier,” the draft rules state.It also go on to state, “In case a TPP achieves the ash utilisation of any particular cycle after imposition of fine in subsequent cycles, the said amount shall be returned to TPP after deducting 10% of the fine collected on the unutilised quantity during the next cycle. Deduction of 20%, 30%, and so on, of the fine collected is to be made in case of utilisation of ash in subsequent cycles.”The provision for recovery of fines has so far been in the purview of courts, and while experts agreed that it is step in the right direction to include such a provision in law, they also said that allowing for refunds is a contradictory move. “So it is not really a penalty at all, it is more of a security guarantee, against which violations will continue. The draft notification also states that collected penalties should be used for safe disposal of unutilised fly ash, whereas it should be used to rehabilitate communities that are most affected fly ash pollution,” said Debi Goenka, who authored CAT’s comments, dated May 27.Yet another clause which experts have taken issue with is included in paragraph five of the notification and addresses the issue of legacy fly ash, which has not been defined in previous versions of these rules. “Unutilised accumulated ash i.e. legacy ash, which is stored before the publication of this notification, shall be utilised progressively by TPPs in such a manner that the utilisation of legacy ash shall be completed fully within 10 years from the date of publication of this notification. This would be over and above the utilisation targets prescribed for ash generation through current operations of that particular year,” stated the draft notification.Describing this clause as an attempt to “kick the can down the road,”, Goenka said the problem of legacy fly ash has itself arisen from the failure of power generators to comply with previous iterations of fly ash compliance rules. “We are now giving violators another 10 years to fix problems whose solutions were originally envisioned in 1999. Giving extensions in the past has not worked, so there is little faith that it will work this time around as well,” said Goenka.As noted in CAT’s comments to the ministry, “This draft notification is not a ‘new’ notification but an attempt to regularise the non-compliance of the existing fly ash notifications.” The comments suggest that “existing power plants that are not in compliance with the existing fly ash notifications should be prosecuted under the Environment Protection Act” and that “no attempt should be made to regularise failures in compliance with the earlier fly ash notifications”.A third addition to the rules, which some experts referred to as the most worrying, is a provision that exempts “stabilised” ash ponds from utilisation targets. “Legacy ash utilisation is not required where ash pond/dyke has stabilised and the reclamation has taken place with greenbelt/plantation. Concerned state pollution control board shall certify in this regard,” the draft rules stated.“This is worrying because there is no scientific definition of what a ‘stabilised’ ash pond is. It is likely to encourage violators to simply procure certificates from the pollution control boards concerned without any third-party scrutiny. These new rules do not acknowledge that fly ash has already been dumped in extremely ecological sensitive areas in an extremely unscientific manner. It suggests that a few simple steps such as creating greenbelts will fix the problem, whereas we do not even have enough data to assess the scale of the damage, both social and ecological, in most places,” said Shweta Narayan, advisor with the Health Energy Initiative (HEI), who recently published a report documenting 17 major fly ash related accidents in India over the past year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbaibased-environment-group-objects-to-draft-fly-ash-management-rules-101622400283463.html
31-05-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab reports 2,627 fresh Covid cases, 127 deaths||Punjab on Sunday registered 2,627 fresh cases of Covid-19 and 127 more fatalities.With Punjab witnessing a decline in fresh cases for the past several days, the number of active cases declined to 39,263 from 42,177. The state recorded 3,102 fresh Covid-19 cases on Saturday.The total number of Covid-19 infections reported in Punjab so far has reached 5,65,415 while the death toll has risen to 14,432 with 127 more people succumbing to the disease, according to a medical bulletin.Nineteen deaths were reported from Amritsar, 13 from Bathinda, 12 from Ludhiana and 10 from Gurdaspur. Among the fresh cases, Ludhiana reported 298, Bathinda 295, Jalandhar 195 and Mohali 182.The case positivity rate dropped to 3.92% as against 4.56% on Saturday, the bulletin stated.With 5,371 recoveries from the infection, the number of cured persons reached 5,11,720. There are 310 critical patients who are on ventilator support, 861 other critical patients and 4,740 are on oxygen support, it said.A total of 92,09,841 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-reports-2-627-fresh-covid-cases-127-deaths-101622400283001.html
31-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra records 18,600 new Covid-19 cases, tally 5,731,815||Mumbai Continuing with the steady decline since the start of May, Maharashtra recorded 18,600 new Covid-19 cases on Sunday, taking the tally to 5,731,815. The death toll has now reached 94,844 with 402 deaths, with Mumbai leading with 14,797 deaths, followed by Pune with 12,413. Mumbai recorded 1,062 new cases with 22 deaths, taking the tally to 704,622 and toll to 14,797. The test positivity rate is 7.36%, the lowest since February 22, when it was 7.12%.The number of Covid-19 cases recorded in Maharashtra was 63,282 on May 1, which came down to 34,848 cases on May 15 and 18,600 on May 30. The state saw 802 deaths on May 1, which increased to 960 on May 15, but came down to 402 on May 30. There are currently 271,801 active patients across the state, with Pune topping with 39,466 patients, followed by Mumbai with 28,015 active patients. On Sunday, 252,623 tests were conducted, while the number of recovered people was 22,532. Dr Subhash Salunke, advisor, Maharashtra government on Covid-19 management, said a lot of efforts were undertaken to ensure the decline of the cases. “We ramped up the number of tests, ensured faster diagnosis as well as medication for the patients and also ensured they get hospital beds in time,” said Dr Salunke. He said the lockdown played a significant role in the dip. However, despite the decline, many districts in rural areas, namely Sangli, Satara, Kolhapur and Washim, continued to report high number of cases with positivity rates very high. Dr Ameet Mandot, director, Gut Clinic, advocated speeding up of vaccination. “The time has come to enforce Covid-19 protocols very stringently. There should be no leniency till at least 60% of the population is vaccinated. Even the lockdown should be opened up in a staggered manner,” said Dr Mandot. The Pune Municipal Corporation has earmarked a scheme to provide free oxygen concentrator to affected citizens.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-records-18-600-new-covid-19-cases-tally-5731815-101622400107439.html
31-05-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali MC plans to take over 4 sectors, 8 villages||The Mohali municipal corporation plans to expand its jurisdiction by including four more sectors and eight villages under its ambit. The agenda will come up for approval in the General House meeting next month. At present, the MC covers a population of 2.5 lakh, which will go up to 3.5 lakh if it gets the nod.The new areas include Sectors 82, 90, 91 and 117, which have many private housing projects such as TDI City, besides Balongi village, which has two panchayats, Bariyali, Ballomajra, Mauli Baidwan, Chilla, Laknaur, Chappar Chiri and Chappar Chiri Khurd.Mayor Amarjit Singh Sidhu said it has been a long pending demand of residents of these areas to be included in the MC’s limit for better development. “We will table the agenda in the House meeting next month for approval,” he said.Deputy mayor Kuljeet Singh Bedi said most of these areas are under panchayats, and bringing them under the MC limits will facilitate their planned development.Mohali was conceived after the trifurcation of Punjab, and its capital Chandigarh becoming a Union Territory in the 1960s. In 1967, the area around Mohali village was initially developed as an industrial estate, and was broadened with residential areas to meet housing demands. On November 1, 1975, then Punjab chief minister Giani Zail Singh laid the foundation stone of Mohali township and named it Sahibzada Ajit Singh Nagar. In 1984, a notified area committee was formed with 25 wards. In 1996, a municipal council was formed with 31 wards, which remained in existence till 2011, when the municipal corporation was formed. The MC was provided with 50 wards following a rapid growth in the city. Its first elections were held in 2015.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-mc-plans-to-take-over-4-sectors-8-villages-101622400106957.html
31-05-2021||Chandigarh||Sprint legend Milkha Singh discharged from hospital||After being hospitalised for six days, sprint legend Milkha Singh, who had tested positive for Covid-19, was discharged from Fortis Hospital, Mohali, on Sunday.The 91-year-old Olympian is said to be in a stable condition and will be in home isolation with oxygen support at his residence in Sector 8, Chandigarh, under supervision of his daughter, Dr Mona Milkha Singh.Meanwhile his wife Nirmal Kaur, who was being treated alongside her husband, had to be shifted to an intensive care unit on Saturday night owing to requirement of more oxygen. While Singh was admitted to the hospital on May 24, his 82-year-old wife, a former Indian volleyball team captain, was admitted on May 26 after she, too, tested positive for the virus.A statement issued by Fortis Hospital said: “On request of the family, Milkha Singh was discharged from the hospital today in a stable condition. He is on oxygen and nutritional support. Nirmal Kaur had to be shifted to the intensive care unit last night due to increased oxygen requirement. She continues to be stable.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sprint-legend-milkha-singh-discharged-from-hospital-101622400103280.html
31-05-2021||Chandigarh||High drama as 4 Covid patients succumb within 1.5 hours at Chandigarh hospital||A high drama was witnessed on Saturday night at Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32 after four Covid-19 patients, admitted in its two intensive care units (ICUs), died within a span of one-and-a-half hours.Attendants of the deceased alleged that the deaths occurred because of a power cut during the thunderstorm. The authorities, however, have denied it.At 10:30pm, there was a power cut in the hospital because of the thunderstorm that struck the city. Almost two hours later at 12.20am, one patient died in the ICU; at 1.15am another died; the third death was reported at 1.30am and the fourth at 2am.While one patient was from Chandigarh, others were from Punjab. As the attendants, sitting in the dark, got the news of the deaths, one of them started alleging that the patients were dying because the ventilators were not functional due to the power cut.As per sources, a lot of hue and cry was raised following which medical superintendent Dr Sudhir Garg and sub-divisional magistrate (south) Satish Jain reached the spot.Dr Jasbinder Kaur, the director-principal of GMCH-32, said: “There is no link between the power failure and the deaths that occurred in the Covid ICUs. All ventilators have automatic backup, and electricity supply was being provided to all critical areas, including ICUs.”She said ventilators were functional in the case of all four patients, and they died because of medical complications.On Saturday, there were a total of 116 patients on oxygen support and 38 patients admitted in four Covid ICUs.The medical superintendent, who visited the spot at night, said: “All ventilators connected to Covid patients were functional. Sadly, four very sick patients died in two different Covid ICUs at night.”“Mortality rate is quite high in the ICUs across India, and similar is the case at GMCH-32. Over 50% patients are from other states, who reach the hospital at a very critical stage. During the second wave when the fatality rate is so high, it is not abnormal if 5-6 Covid-19 patients die in a day,” added Dr Garg.He said that last week also, some attendants had created ruckus when five patients had died within a short span.According to sources, in the last 15 days, 110 Covid patients from Chandigarh and other states have died at GMCH-32.Garg said that the ventilators installed in the three ICUs, which were supplied through PM CARES fund, have their own battery backup of 30 minutes. “As an additional backup measure, a high dependency unit in C block with 12 ventilator beds was vacated and prepared for receiving these patients if required,” he said.Meanwhile, police confirmed that the families of three victims had complained to the cops stationed at GMCH-32, and these were forwarded to the Sector-34 police station. However, senior police officials privy to the matter said that no FIR had been registered and the complaints had been forwarded to the relevant authority.UT health secretary Arun Kumar Gupta said, “It is unfortunate that four deaths occurred at GMCH-32, but these had nothing to do with disruption in power supply. Hospital’s electricity generators were automatically turned on, and ventilators, too, have their own backup.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/high-drama-as-4-covid-patients-succumb-within-1-5-hours-at-chandigarh-hospital-101622399982897.html
31-05-2021||Chandigarh||Covid claims 18 more lives, 412 test positive in Chandigarh tricity||The second wave of Covid-19 continued to recede with just 412 people testing positive in the tricity on Sunday, down from the previous day’s tally of 467 and the peak of 2,612 recorded on May 10. However, 18 more people lost their lives to the virus, up from Saturday’s death toll of 14, but considerably lower than the peak of 38 logged on May 5. Also read: High drama as 4 patients succumb within 1.5 hours at Chandigarh hospitalBoth Mohali and Chandigarh reported 182 fresh cases, while 48 people were found infected in Panchkula. In Mohali, it was after 75 days that the daily count went down below 200.In terms of deaths, Mohali recorded seven, followed by six in Panchkula and five in Chandigarh. Meanwhile, positivity rate dropped to 3.5% in Panchkula and stood at 4% and 5.5% in Mohali and Chandigarh, respectively. Positivity rate is the true indicator of the growth or decline in the spread of an infection, as it is the proportion of people testing positive among all those sampled. During the peak of the second wave, it had remained around 20-25%.With more people being discharged than those testing positive, the tricity’s active case load has plunged to 6,155 from the peak of 24,201 on May 12, and recovery rate has gone above 94% across the three jurisdictions. In fact, Chandigarh reported 509 recoveries and the number stood at 450 in Mohali on Sunday.Those dead in Chandigarh included two women, aged 42 and 52. The remaining three were senior citizens, aged between 61 and 65. In Panchkula, besides three women, aged 45, 55 and 64, three seniors in the age group of 79-85 succumbed to the virus. According to experts, the number of fatalities will take some time to decline.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-claims-18-more-lives-412-test-positive-in-chandigarh-tricity-101622399923352.html
31-05-2021||Other||Hallmarking gold: Bombay HC relief to jewellers till June 29||The Bombay high court (HC) recently refrained the Central government from acting against jewellers who have not complied with the January 15 order that mandates the compulsory hallmarking of jewellery and prohibits the sale and stamping of higher purity gold ornaments. The rule will come into effect from Tuesday, June 1 and the jewellers have been given the relief from coercive steps or penalty till June 29. While HC said that it was not inclined to stay the effect and operation of the January 15 order, it has asked the authorities to give jewellers more time owing to the pandemic. The bench also directed the Centre to set up more hallmarking centres across 22 out of the 26 districts in Maharashtra, which currently do not have such centres. On May 21, a jewellers’ organisation, Pune Saraf Association, filed a petition through senior advocate Anil Anturkar and advocate Shubham H Misar, sought the quashing of the January 15 notification that mandated jewellers to register with the Bureau of Indian Standards (BIS) and sell only hallmarked jewellery and artefacts made of 14, 18 and 22-carat gold from June. The notification had further warned of penalty and imprisonment of one year on violators. While the hearing the petition, the bench was informed that the Centre had rejected the April representation by the jewellers’ body and hence, urgent reliefs were sought seeking a stay on the order owing to “complete lack of infrastructure” to implement the rule. Advocate Arsh Mishra, representing BIS, informed the court that the Nagpur bench of HC had on May 9 directed the Centre to not take coercive action under the BIS Act against jewellers till June 14 for not hallmarking jewellery. Mishra added that new hallmark centres would come up as the pandemic situation normalised, and urged the court not to stay the Centre’s decision. After hearing the arguments, the vacation bench of justice SJ Kathawalla and justice SP Tavade reserved its order, which was pronounced on May 27. In its order, the bench noted, “Whilst we appreciate that hallmarking is essential for consumer protection and to prevent unfair trade practices, adequate and necessary infrastructure needs to first be put in place prior to impose such strict consequences on the petitioners… Considering the purpose for which the impugned order has been issued, we are not inclined to stay its effect and operation.” The bench also noted that it would not be possible for certain jewellers to travel outside their district, as no hallmarking centre was established in their respective districts. “Owing to the ongoing pandemic, coupled with the admitted lack of infrastructure of hallmark centres, we deem it fit to restrain the respondents [authorities] from taking coercive action against the petitioners,” said the bench. The court then directed the jewellers to try ensuring maximum hallmarking at the currently operational centres, and posted further hearing to June 29.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hallmarking-gold-bombay-hc-relief-to-jewellers-till-june-29-101622399922248.html
31-05-2021||Other||Air India loses 5th pilot to Covid-19 in a month||Air India co-pilot Captain Harsh Tiwary, 37, passed away from Covid-19 in Delhi on Sunday. He is survived by his wife, a five-year-old daughter, parents and sister. The Delhi-based first officer is the airline’s fifth pilot to succumb to Covid-19 within a month. Captain Tiwary used to operate the Boeing 777 fleet since 2019 after joining Air India as first officer on Airbus 320 in 2016. The Boeing pilots’ union of Air India Indian Pilots’ Guild (IPG) said that Captain Tiwary was actively involved in operating flights under the Vande Bharat Mission (VBM). “He last flew on April 21 and was tested positive on May 9. On May 12, he was admitted to a Noida hospital,” said a senior pilot. Captain Prasad Karmakar, who operated flights to the USA under VBM, was the fourth Air India pilot to die from the virus this month. He had joined the airline in 1990 as an avionics engineer and started flying in 1997. Captain Karmakar, a Mumbai resident, passed away on Thursday and is survived by his wife and two daughters. On May 9, the airline lost Captain Amitesh Prasad, 54, who had last landed in Bangalore on April 15. He complained of symptoms after reaching Mumbai and had tested positive for the virus five days later. Two more pilots – Captain Sandeep Rana and Captain GPS Gill, too succumbed to the virus earlier this month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/air-india-loses-5th-pilot-to-covid-19-in-a-month-101622399862205.html
31-05-2021||Chandigarh||Squall at 100 km/hr leaves Chandigarh powerless||A squall blowing at speeds up to 100 kilometer per hour accompanied by around 31 mm rain over an hour and a half left a trail of destruction in and around Chandigarh on Saturday night, with normal power and water supply still to be restored in some pockets till late on Sunday evening. According to India Meteorological Department (IMD) officials, the squall began around 10:15pm on Saturday, and soon most parts of the city went into darkness. While the thunderstorm got over by around 11:30pm, light rain continued till the wee hours of Sunday. Also read: High-speed winds batter Mohali, PanchkulaAround 72 trees and 60 electricity poles were uprooted due to the high-speed winds, damaging property and blocking roads across Chandigarh. Several transformers also developed snags. “In many areas, an uprooted tree damaged the entire power line, taking down several poles with it. The horticulture department has removed these trees in a few areas, but a lot of work is still left before which normal power supply can resume in some pockets,” said an electricity department official, on the condition of anonymity, as he was not authorised to speak to media. While in some sectors, the electricity supply was restored by the afternoon, many southern parts, including Sectors 33-39, 45, 48 and 49, reported much longer disruptions. In parts of Sector 45, the supply was restored around 11am, but one-third of the sector was still without power till the time of filing of this story late evening. “Many residents have moved to the houses of their friends and relatives elsewhere,” said Sanjeev Bansal, president, resident welfare association (RWA), Sector 45. Covid patients sufferResidents also highlighted problems faced by Covid patients in home isolation due to the power outages. “Many patients and their attendants had a sleepless night as oxygen generators being used by them stopped working due to the power failure. We roped in an NGO, whose volunteers worked the whole night to ensure supply of free oxygen cylinders from their Covid Care Centre,” said Vinod Vashisht, convener, City Forum of Residents Welfare Organisations. RS Dhillon, general secretary, RWA, Sector 34, said: “Power outages are seen each time there is a storm. When will the administration formulate a policy on weak trees that end up falling on electricity lines and creating havoc?” “We have restored power supply in most areas. There are still some issues in a few pockets within some sectors. These would also be resolved soon,” said UT chief engineer CB Ojha, adding that an emergency WhatsApp group was created for better coordination between the electricity department and MC officials. Water supply pangs Disruptions in power supply also hit water supply in most parts of the city during the day. Even though electricity was restored in parts of Sector 40, residents complained there was still no water. MS Rawat, president, RWA, Sector 40C, said: “There is no water supply to the first and second floors. On the ground floor, some houses got water, but at very low pressure.” “Water supply has still not resumed. The department does not even have any diesel to run the backup generator for the booster pump,” said Jatinder Mehta, former vice-president, RWA, CHB Flats, Sector 49. MC chief engineer Shailender Singh said: “The water supply was disrupted due to power disruptions. It will start in the evening, though the supply will be normalised only on Monday.” Birds fall prey tooIn Sector 37D, carcasses of around 200 parrots and 65 pigeons were found lying on the ground on Sunday morning. Inspector Dharminder Dogra and volunteer Prince Mehra of the Society for Prevention of Cruelty to Animals reached the spot after shocked residents called the authorities. “The birds had been sleeping on the tree branches, that fell due to the high-speed winds, killing them. We took the carcasses and handed them over to the forest department,” said Dogra.Weather outlookWith 31.8 mm rain on the intervening night of Saturday and Sunday, it was the highest recorded within 24 hours in May since 2014. According to the IMD, light rain and gusty winds are likely to continue from Monday to Wednesday.In fact, the weatherman had made no prediction of the thunderstorm on Saturday night. “The squall arose due to pressure differences and it is usually a short phenomenon. This is why the weather remained sunny on Sunday. However, a western disturbance will be active in the city from Monday onwards. Light rain up to 10 mm along with gusty winds at speeds up to 50 kmph and thunder can be expected to continue till Wednesday,” said IMD scientist Shivinder Singh. A squall is defined as a strong wind rising suddenly and lasting for at least a minute. It was last on June 3, 2019, that wind speed had gone up to 98.8 kmph. More recently, on May 7, it peaked at 80 kmph. Similar wind speeds are not expected in the coming days. Meanwhile, maximum temperature fell slightly to 34.9°C from Saturday’s 36.5°C. However, minimum temperature plunged by over 10 notches due to the squall, going down from 28.8°C to 18.5°C. In the next three days, the temperature is likely to continue to remain like this, with mercury oscillating between 21°C and 35°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/squall-at-100-km-hr-leaves-chandigarh-powerless-101622399805113.html
31-05-2021||Other||Mumbai mayor finds vaccines in fridge at hotel||Mumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar, during a surprise inspection at an Andheri hotel on Sunday morning, found that the establishment had administered Covaxin to hundreds of people. The mayor also found vaccines, vial trays and vaccine-related information documents from the hotel’s fridge. Pednekar has called for an inquiry and stated that the guilty will be charged under the Epidemic Diseases Act.“I received images of the hotel offering the vaccine. So I immediately rushed to the hotel for inspection at 8am. There were vaccine bottles and vial trays stored inside a normal fridge and not in the specified cold storage facility. Coronavirus vaccines have to be stored in cold storages and the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) ensures that all vaccines are stored properly. A proper standard operating procedure (SOP) needs to be followed, otherwise it could endanger the lives of beneficiaries,” said the mayor.The mayor said that the vaccines were procured from a hospital, with which the hotel had a tie-up. The hospital had procured Covaxin from the Centre. She said people were vaccinated in batches of 100 each in the past few days. “The hotel management stated that the vaccines were being administered from May 23 but have been stopped currently. However, I asked BMC officials to check how the vaccines were stored earlier and if at all they were stored in proper cold storage,” added Pednekar.The mayor said that the hotel is not to be blamed entirely as it was administering vaccines to people without families and were keeping them under observation of doctors to check for reaction.She said that BMC has been asked to check the details with the hospital too. According to the mayor, the hotel had tied-up with another hospital which too was providing it vaccines.“As per the Centre’s direction, private hospitals administering vaccines in partnership with hotels is in violation of the guidelines,” the mayor added. The Central government on Saturday asked the state governments to initiate legal or administrative action against institutions offering coronavirus vaccine packages. The Central government in a letter stated that it had come to the notice of the Union health ministry that some private hospitals were providing packages for vaccination in collaboration with some hotels, which was against the guidelines issued for the National Covid-19 vaccination programme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mumbai-mayor-finds-vaccines-in-fridge-at-hotel-101622399802261.html
31-05-2021||Other||Mumbai society members scuffle over Covid-19 norms||A 56-year-old Bollywood make-up artist, Subhash Singh, suffered injuries after he was allegedly assaulted by his society’s committee member, Prashant Kevde, at Goregaon during a fight that broke out over the alleged violation of Covid-19 norms, on Friday. The police have registered a case against Kevde and based on his complaint have also booked Singh.According to Singh, around 6pm, he saw his neighbour trying to enter the premises along with an estate agent to show three flats which the latter intended to sell. Kevde, reached the spot and denied the neighbour access to the building. Singh said that visitors were allowed only from 7.00am to 11.00am owing to Covid-19. When Singh tried to intervene, Kevde allegedly began abusing Singh, after which a fight broke out between the two and Singh sustained injuries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mumbai-society-members-scuffle-over-covid-19-norms-101622399682116.html
31-05-2021||Other||‘What have you achieved in 7 years?’ Maharashtra’s ruling allies slam Modi govt||The ruling parties in Maharashtra on Sunday staged protests against the Central government led by Narendra Modi over various issues as the Prime Minister completed seven years in office. The Modi-led government took power for its second tenure on May 30, 2019. The Congress and the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) questioned about the achievements of the Central government, even as their ally Shiv Sena said that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led government needs to introspect.The Congress party’s key leaders led protests in their respective districts across the state and observed ‘Black Day’ on Sunday. At Nashik, revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat led the protest, while at Aurangabad, workers agitated under the leadership of public works department minister Ashok Chavan. In Pune, former chief minister Prithviraj Chavan led the stir. Maharashtra Congress chief Nana Patole said that the Modi government has failed on all the fronts and his leadership had been “exposed” amid the second wave of the pandemic. “Apart from the rise in the prices of petrol, diesel, domestic gas and edible oil, the unemployment is at its peak. The economy has been stumbling through the [Covid-19] crisis, even as the Modi government acted irresponsibly during the devastation caused by the second wave in the country,” said Patole.“Hundreds of thousands of people died owing to shortage of drugs and oxygen. Lack of planning for the procurement of vaccines has compelled citizens to stand in queues for hours, even as the rich are getting the shots without any hassle. The Modi government’s decision of exporting vaccines to countries like Pakistan has escalated the shortage of doses, leaving our own people struggling for it,” he added. In Mumbai, city Congress chief Bhai Jagtap, former ministers Arif Naseem Khan and Chandrakant Handore participated in the protest under Patole’s leadership. Jagtap said that Modi cannot even count seven achievements in seven years and smaller countries such as Kenya have been extending help to India. “This indicates the downward trend of our progress,” he said. Meanwhile, NCP’s state unit chief Jayant Patil appealed to party workers as also to citizens to take to the social media to expose the failures of the Modi-led Central government. “The general public of this country got nothing except tall assurances, failed promises, divisive politics and unemployment. The Modi government has now started taking steps to tame social media platforms such as Twitter and Facebook after it realised that people have started talking against them using these mediums. Now it’s time for the people to effectively use these media to expose the Centre,” said Patil.He also claimed that the Centre has been using the Central agencies for political gains. “The Modi government has failed to generate 20 million jobs a year as was promised or unearth the scams they spoke about before the 2014 Lok Sabha elections,” said Patil. Shiv Sena’s Member of Parliament (MP) Sanjay Raut said that the Modi government needs to introspect. “It has widely failed in fulfilling the basic expectations of the people in the past seven years,” Raut said. Responding to Raut’s statement, BJP’s state unit chief Chandrakant Patil said that the party does not take the Sena MP very seriously. “As directed by our Central leadership, we are not celebrating Modi government’s anniversary, but are instead felicitating Covid-19 warriors. The Opposition has the right to criticise, but the Central government has performed well in the past seven years,” he said at Kolhapur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/what-have-you-achieved-in-7-years-maharashtra-s-ruling-allies-slam-modi-govt-101622399622790.html
31-05-2021||Other||‘Follow-up on recovered Covid-19 patients with diabetes, kept on oxygen for over a week’||With the growing cases of mucormycosis in the city, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has instructed hospitals to follow-up with Covid-recovered, diabetic patients for symptoms of the black fungal infection. These also include patients who have been on oxygen therapy or in intensive care units (ICU) for more than seven days. Mucormycosis is a serious but rare fungal infection caused by a group of moulds called mucormycetes. According to doctors, it causes blindness, organ dysfunction, loss of body tissue and can be fatal if not treated on time. “We have been instructed to screen a sizeable number of Covid-19 patients with high sugar or diabetes before they get discharged from the hospital. Additionally, we are also following-up with such patients after their discharge if they have developed symptoms such as headache, black discharge from nose, among others,” said Dr Ramesh Bharmal, dean of BYL Nair Hospital. As per doctors, oxygen therapy for a long duration causes exposure to humidified air. If the water in the humidification is not sterilised, it exposes sinuses to the infection. “This makes patients on oxygen therapy for a long time vulnerable to acquiring the infection. Also, patients with cardio-pulmonary complications in ICUs develop lower immunity to contract the fungal infection later,” said Dr Bharmal. Compared to last year, the number of mucormycosis cases has increased in the second wave. Since the beginning of the second pandemic in February, over 170 Covid-recovered patients have contracted mucormycosis in the city. Out of these, 24 of them lost their lives to the infection. “The directive has been given for the early detection of the cases. It has been observed that patients often ignore their symptoms as post-Covid issues, which often delays the diagnosis. Due to this, the fungi become more aggressive and kill tissues inside the nose, throat, palate, sinus and even brain which causes death,” said Dr Mohan Joshi, dean of Lokmanya Tilak General Hospital (Sion hospital). According to a guideline issued on May 17 by the state’s commissioner of health services and mission director, National Health Mission, if required, patients with high sugar need to be examined by an ENT (ears, nose, throat) specialist for symptoms of mucormycosis. Patients can also be examined by an ophthalmologist, if needed. “The immunity in a Covid-19 patient gets compromised due to some medicines such as Tocilizumab and steroids. So, when they get exposed to mucor mold – commonly found in soil, plants, manure and decaying fruits and vegetables – it becomes life-threatening. It affects the sinuses, the brain and the lungs,” said Dr Girija Suresh, senior ophthalmic consultant, Fortis Hospital, Mulund. Steroids reduce inflammation in the lungs of Covid-19 patients. But it also reduces immunity and increases the blood sugar levels in Covid-19 patients. Dr Ajay Doiphode, president, Association of Otolaryngologists, attributed unregulated usage of steroids, which lowers the immunity in the body, as one of the primary reasons for the surge in cases of mucormycosis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/followup-on-recovered-covid-19-patients-with-diabetes-kept-on-oxygen-for-over-a-week-101622399622260.html
31-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra government extends lockdown to June 15||Even as Maharashtra’s Covid-19 cases over the past few days have fallen below the peak of the first wave (September 2020), the state government has extended the ongoing lockdown by two more weeks, until 7am on June 15, as 14 of the state’s 36 districts have a high positivity rate (more than 10%). Districts and cities with a positivity rate less than 10% and less than 40% occupancy of oxygen beds will be given certain relaxations, including an extension of timings of essential establishments; operation of non-essential establishments during restricted timings; and increasing the attendance in government offices to 25%. Most cities in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), including Mumbai, will be eligible for these relaxations. The state has about 14 districts with a positivity rate of more than 10%, including Thane, Raigad, Kolhapur, Osmanabad, among others. Twenty districts have a positivity rate of less than 10%. The state government has also earmarked 10 cities with more than one million population as separate units, so that the high positivity rate of their district does not apply to them.Mumbai, Thane, Navi Mumbai, Kalyan-Dombivli, Vasai-Virar, Pune, Pimpri-Chinchwad, Nashik, Aurangabad and Nashik are 10 cities, which have been put in a separate pool. This will enable cities like Kalyan-Dombivli, Thane, Vasai-Virar and Panvel to have relaxations, although the positivity rate of the district is high. The essential establishments, which are currently allowed to open from 7am to 11am, will now be allowed to open till 2pm in these districts and cities, which have relaxations from the lockdown. Similarly, depending on orders by local authorities, the shops and establishments operating in non-essential services may be allowed to operate between 7am and 2pm (only on weekdays). Only stand-alone non essential shops are allowed to operate and not in malls and shopping complexes. The e-commerce activities in cities and districts eligible for relaxations have been allowed to operate. The government offices in these districts and cities are now allowed to operate at 25% of their capacity. Stepping out of home after 3pm has, however, remained curbed except for medical emergencies.The districts with positivity rates ranging between 10% and 20% will continue to have ongoing curbs. The shops and establishment operating in essential services will be allowed to operate, while stepping out of the house without valid reasons, will continue to be prohibited. Most rural parts of the districts are expected to fall under this category. The districts with positivity rate of more than 20% or oxygen-bed occupancy of more than 75% will see stricter curbs. The districts will be sealed by not allowing influx or outflow in them. Only Satara and Sindhudurg have more than 20% positivity rate. “The positivity rate week ending on May 29 will be considered to determine the category for the cities and districts. The health department is expected to clarify on it by tomorrow. The idea of separating the cities with one million population was to make sure that the big cities do not suffer because of the high number of patients in rural parts of the respective districts. By setting the period for the positivity rate we have also weeded out the possibility of fudging in data at the local level to get the relaxation,” said an official from the relief and rehabilitation department. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, in his address to the state on Sunday evening, said the government is compelled to extend the lockdown unwillingly by two weeks as the cases are rising in certain rural areas. He said the districts and cities with less positivity rate will get some relaxations, while the districts and cities with high positivity rate may see stricter curbs. Thackeray said that the restrictions will be lifted in a graded manner. “The number of cases is still at the level of the peak of cases during the first wave, when there were 24,886 cases on September 11. The number of active cases is just below the peak of active cases during first wave, though the recovery rate is better today than it was at the peak of first wave. We need to tread cautiously, along with the efforts to ramp up health infrastructure in anticipation of the potential third wave,” he said. Thackeray also appealed to not resort to agitations, demanding for relaxations from the curbs, as that could result in super-spreading events. “I need the cooperation from the people and the political parties. As implemented in three villages in the state, every village, tehsil and district administration should take efforts to make their units Covid-19 free,” he said. The state government started implementing the curbs from April 5 and went on tightening them by imposing almost complete lockdown in third week of April. The state witnessed its highest number of cases, 68,631, on April 18.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-government-extends-lockdown-to-june-15-101622399442158.html
31-05-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad: Urns left unattended at Hindon crematorium, volunteers step in||The Hindon Cremation Ground in Ghaziabad had been the site of many cremations over the last month as Covid-19 ravaged the city and neighbouring areas. But now it is seeing another tragedy: urns carrying ashes of Covid victims lay unattended at the site and dumping of bodies.“We had 48 urns unattended and 18 of these were Covid-related deaths. The other 30 were of unclaimed/unidentified bodies that the police gave us,” said Manish Pandit, the president of Shri Dharmik Ramchandra Sitadevi Harnandi Sewa Sansthan (SDRSHSS) that cremates bodies at the ground. The unattended urns were of cremations from mid-April till the last week of May. “We waited for their families. We generally ask them to take the ashes within a day or two. But no one turned up for weeks. So, we collected all the set of ashes and performed their last rites as per desired rituals at Garhmukteshwar.”“During the past one week, we even had people dumping bodies at night before fleeing. Two of the six bodies we got this way were in body bags, the same we see with Covid victims. We cremated the bodies and also performed the immersion ritual,” said Pandit.He said that they had around 350 unclaimed urns since last year and about 60-70 of these were related to Covid-19.“Last year too, we performed the last rituals the same way. Members of Khalsa Help International accompanied us to Garhmukteshwar then too,” Pandit added.Gurpreet Singh, founder member from Khalsa Help International, said that they will go again this year too.“We got to know that families don’t turn up to collect ashes due to the pandemic. So, we went to Garhmukteshwar along with members of SDRSHSS and helped in the immersion. We are again planning to do the same activity this year as well,” Singh said.The seers said that immersion of ashes is a vital ritual and ideally be taken up within three days of cremation.“It is maintained that our body is made up of five elements. So, the water part should go to water. So, the immersion is taken up at rivers or water bodies,” said Mahant Narayan Giri, the mahant of ancient Dudheshwar Nath Temple in Ghaziabad,As per the state control room figures of May 30, the second wave of the ongoing pandemic resulted in 334 deaths this year. Till December 31, 2020, the toll was 102.The officials of the municipal corporation said that immersion of pending ashes is done in cases where families don’t turn up.“So, there is no option, and the associations take ashes and perform immersion activity as per Hindu rituals,” said Pramod Kumar, additional municipal commissioner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-urns-left-unattended-at-hindon-crematorium-volunteers-step-in-101622398721994.html
31-05-2021||Chandigarh||High-speed winds batter Mohali, Panchkula||A high-velocity storm on Saturday night caused widespread destruction in Mohali and Panchkula, damaging cars and two-wheelers, besides uprooting trees, electric poles and sign boards, and causing power outages lasting more than 14 hours.In Mohali, five cars and four two-wheelers were damaged. Power was disrupted for nearly 14 hours and was only restored by 1.30pm in the city on Sunday; at some places, power came back around 3pm. In some parts of Zirakpur and Dera Bassi, power was restored at around 11am on Sunday.Also read: Squall at 100 km/hr leaves Chandigarh powerlessMost of the internal sector roads were blocked with branches that fell from the trees. At Bhankapur village in Dera Bassi, traffic light poles were uprooted. The residents complained that even water supply was disrupted on Sunday morning. Mohali municipal corporation (MC) commissioner Kamal Kumar Garg visited the spot to supervise rescue operation.In Mullanpur, a library and tuition centre set up by NGO Open Eyes Foundation for children living in shanties was washed away, and books and stationery worth ₹40,000 were damaged.No loss of life reportedIn several parts of the city, overhead high-tension wires came down as electricity poles were uprooted. In several markets, glow sign boards were damaged, but no loss of any life was reported.A resident of Phase 11, Gurinder Walia, said, “Two cars were damaged in our area and power was only restored on Sunday afternoon. There was no water supply either.”Mohali deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan said that firefighters and medical teams were put on alert after the city experienced felling of trees due to the thunderstorm. Fire brigades were asked to be ready should any vehicles get stuck under fallen trees.When contacted, superintending engineer of Punjab State Power Corporation Limited, Mohali, Mohit Sood, said, “Around 37 poles in Mohali city were uprooted and in most parts, we were able to restore power on Saturday night, but in other parts, power was restored at around 1pm on Sunday.”Protest outside power grid in Sector 80 The residents of Mauli Baidwan on Sunday evening held a protest outside the power grid in Sector 80 as the supply was not restored in their village. The protestors forced the grid to shutdown, which affected the supply of Sectors 77 to 80,MGF and Preet City in Sector 86 for nearly one hour.The grid became operational after the police reached the spot and pacified the protesters. Mauli Baidwan sarpanch Bal Krishan Goyal said, “There is no power in our village since last night, and they were only restoring supply of sectors and totally ignoring our village. We were forced to hold a protest.”7 cars damaged as wall collapses in Panchkula 
31-05-2021||Delhi||100 Delhi govt teachers have died of Covid since March 20: Education department||At least 100 teachers and principals of Delhi government schools have died of Covid-19 since last March, when the pandemic first hit the Capital, officials of the directorate of education (DoE) said, after compiling a Covid-19 deaths report covering its 1,030 schools. The report, the officials said, was for the consideration of the government to facilitate ex gratia payments and compassionate appointments to family members of the deceased persons.Ramchandra Singhare, additional district deputy education officer and nodal officer for compensation to teachers who died of Covid-19, said, “We have received reports related to around 100 cases from across Delhi government schools as of now. Of these, 92 have been confirmed (as Covid deaths), while the rest are awaiting confirmation as they are very recent deaths. There are around 10 cases of Covid deaths among our non-teaching staff and we are examining these cases as well for payment of ex gratia and compassionate appointments.”As of Sunday, 24,151 people in the city have died of Covid-19.The Delhi cabinet on May 13 approved a proposal to provide compensation to families of employees who die of Covid-19 while still in service.Even as schools were immediately closed when the pandemic hit the national capital last March, teachers remained deployed on Covid-related duties such as door-to-door surveys, ration distribution, registering migrant workers, issuing fines, vaccinations, and identification of travellers from abroad at the airport, among others.Also read: June’s Covid vaccine quota to be 120 million after 79 million in MayTeachers also started attending schools after campuses reopened between January and February this year for students of classes 9 to 12. The schools again shut in April, when the fourth and the most deadliest wave of the pandemic struck the national Capital.Many among those who died in the month of April and the three weeks of May so far were also engaged in Covid duties when they contracted the infection, say their family members.Krishan Kant Kapil, 52, a math teacher at the government boys’ senior secondary school in Rithala, was one of such teacher. His son Arpit Kapil said, “My father was engaged in dry ration distribution duty among students of his school till April 24. After that, he developed Covid symptoms. Initially, we were trying to treat him at home but his condition worsened and he was shifted to a private hospital on May 11. He died on May 22.”Kapil said his father’s colleagues asked him to send an application to the government seeking compensation for his father’s death.Family members of several other teachers who died of Covid-19 said they, too, have submitted all documents with the respective schools for compensation.Arvind Kumar Sharma, 59, principal of a government school in Ghazipur, had succumbed to the virus on April 30. He is survived by his wife and two daughters. His daughter Sambhavi Sharma said, “My elder sister is married and now my mother and I have no one to fend for us -- my father was the sole breadwinner. I was preparing for competitive exams and he was guiding me. I do not know what we will do now.”Her elder sister Vallari Sharma said the school has asked them to submit a death certificate and other documents for claiming a compensation. “We are waiting for the death certificate to be issued after submitting the hospital records. No amount of money can compensate our loss, but it will provide some financial security to my mother and sister,” she said.The government schools teachers’ association said the number of teachers who died of Covid may be higher than 100.Ajay Veer Singh, general secretary of the association, said, “There are so many cases of deaths among teachers. A colleague of mine had recently succumbed to Covid, a week after her mother-in-law died of the virus. Her husband is still hospitalised and her son is in class 10. We do not know if the department would include her case in the compensation list since she caught the virus at home. The government should also consider all such cases while handing out compensation and making compassionate appointments.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/at-least-100-delhi-govt-teachers-have-died-of-covid-since-march-2020-says-education-dept-101622398062538.html
31-05-2021||Delhi||Over half of Delhi residents aged 45+ have got a vaccine dose, says state govt||More than half of all Delhi residents aged 45 and above have received at least one dose of a coronavirus vaccine, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) legislator Atishi said on Sunday, even as she flagged the ongoing shortage of jabs for younger people.“It is a matter of pride for Delhi that over 50% people in the 45+ category have been vaccinated (with at least one dose). If a large number of people are vaccinated, it will not only protect them, but Delhi will also slowly start to move towards herd immunity, and consequently they will be able to save the people of entire Delhi,” said Atishi in a live-streamed video briefing.According to government estimates, around 6.5 million people in Delhi are above the age 45, of whom around 2.46 million have received one dose of the vaccine, while around 800,000 have received both, said a senior government official.However, vaccinations for the 18-45 age group continue to remain suspended in government facilities due to a shortage of supplies, and are currently on only in private centres.State government records show that around 9.2 million people in the Capital are aged between 18 and 45, of whom 1.03 million have received one vaccine dose.“There is currently no stock of vaccine available in Delhi government facilities for those in the 18-45 bracket... There 350,000 doses available for the 45+ age group… In Delhi government centres, Covaxin is being given only to those who are due for the second dose, due to shortages. But we do have 14 days’ stock of Covishield,” said Atishi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/over-half-of-delhi-s-residents-aged-45-and-above-have-got-a-vaccine-jab-says-state-govt-101622398061957.html
31-05-2021||Delhi||At least 42 kids orphaned in Covid pandemic since March last year, says DCPCR||At least 42 children were orphaned in Covid-19 pandemic since March last year in the national capital, and at least 5,500 children have lost one parent, Delhi Commission for Protection of Child Rights (DCPCR) has said. Besides, at least 10 children, who were already living with single parents due to personal reasons, have been left without care, it said.DCPCR chairperson Anurag Kundu said the commission has traced around 2,000 children in the past few weeks. Kundu said these orphans were currently staying with their relatives. “We contact the immediate relatives of these kids and check on these children. We check if they have essential supplies if they are getting required medical care and if they need counselling. We are also checking if they are enrolled in a school,” he said.The commission is running a helpline number, +91-931155139, to help children in need. The helpline has received over 2,200 calls till now.The ministry for women and child development had last week said that 577 children were orphaned in the pandemic across the country.The Delhi government had earlier this month announced that it will pay for the education of any child who has lost parents in the pandemic. The government will also give a stipend of ₹2,500 per month to these children. The scheme is yet to be notified.“Once the government notifies the scheme, we will ensure that all these children are enrolled and get the financial support they have been promised,” Kundu added.Earlier this month, the DCPCR had urged people not to fall for the misinformation floating on social media about the adoption of orphans and advised interested families to follow the due legal process to adopt.Government officials explained as per norms, when a child is orphaned, she/he is produced before the district child welfare committee. The committee in the interim sends the child to a children’s home and then conducts the background check. Once it’s established that the child has no caregiver, the committee registers the child on Central Adoption Resource Authority and declares the child free for adoption.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/at-least-42-children-in-city-orphaned-due-to-covid-19-delhi-child-rights-body-101622398001943.html
31-05-2021||Delhi||Dust storm, showers keep Delhi’s temperature low||Parts of the national capital and its surrounding areas received light to moderate rainfall coupled with a dust storm on Sunday. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) said the wet spell is likely to continue till Tuesday, and will keep temperatures lower than normal.Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre, said the showers were prompted by the combined impact of cyclonic storm Yaas in eastern India and a fresh western disturbance that is causing cloudy skies across northern India.“Currently, Delhi is receiving easterly winds, which are keeping the temperatures lower than usual. Delhi and adjoining areas will receive gusty winds and light to moderate rain. These conditions will continue till June 2,” Srivastava said.He stressed that temperatures are also expected to remain below the 40-degree Celsius (°C) mark at least till June 2. Even after that, temperatures are unlikely to be higher than normal, according to the IMD forecast.On Sunday, the maximum temperature at the Safdarjung weather station, which is considered the official marker for the city, was 38.2°C — two degrees below normal for this time of the year. The minimum temperature recorded at the weather station was 25.2°C, two notches below normal.Meanwhile, the maximum temperature at the Palam station on Sunday was 38°C , three degrees below normal, and the minimum was 26.1°C.IMD said the city experienced wind speeds of nearly 40kmph on Sunday evening.Met officials said the impact of two major cyclones, first Tauktae and then Yaas, along with back-to-back western disturbances has kept the mercury levels from rising this May. IMD recordings confirm that the national capital is yet to see any heatwave days this month, a scenario last recorded in 2014.“Generally, Delhi witnesses heatwave conditions till June 15, after which we start getting some pre-monsoon activities that start bringing the temperatures down. It is unlikely that Delhi will see any heatwave days this time, and this is the impact of two major cyclonic storms and higher western disturbances. We have already seen six active western disturbances pass over Delhi,” Srivastava said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/dust-storm-light-rain-keep-delhi-s-temperature-lower-than-normal-imd-101622397942523.html
31-05-2021||Delhi||72-year-old man strangled by thief; two held||A 72-year-old man living alone was strangled to death in the early hours of Friday during a burglary at his home in southwest Delhi’s Sagarpur allegedly by a suspected thief, who had come out of jail nearly three months ago, police said on Sunday.After allegedly killing the elderly man, who was a building contractor by profession, the suspect fled with his gold chain, ring, ATM card, two cheque books and a mobile phone. He was arrested on Saturday along with another man, Bhanu, whom he had sold the stolen gold jewellery. The prime suspect, identified by his first name Sunny, had made a failed burglary attempt at the elderly man’s house a fortnight ago as well, the police said.DCP (southwest) Ingit Pratap Singh said the man, identified as Sunil Saigal, lived alone at his home in Geetanjali Park in Sagarpur. His daughter lives in Paschim Vihar.The police initially suspected it to be a case of accidental death and they believed that the elderly man may have slipped in the bathroom and died due to internal injuries. Saigal’s body was preserved in the hospital’s mortuary and the autopsy is yet to be conducted, said a police officer, associated with the case.On Saturday, Singh said, Saigal’s daughter approached the police and said some articles were missing from the house.“We registered a case of murder, house trespass and theft and formed multiple teams to investigate it and catch the suspect,” said the DCP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/elderly-man-strangled-to-death-during-burglary-thief-held-101622397941940.html
31-05-2021||Delhi||Narcotics cell nabs man for selling heroin, recovers 1kg of contraband||Four days after three people, including a couple, were arrested from outer Delhi with over half a kilogram of heroin and nearly ₹1.92 lakh in cash that they earned as proceeds from the sale of the contraband, the narcotics cell of the Delhi Police arrested another alleged drug peddler with 1kg of the banned substance, officials said on Sunday.This is the third seizure of heroin in the last 10 days by the narcotics cell, which comes under the crime branch. Another 125kg of the contraband was recovered from an Afghan refugee couple after their arrest from west Delhi’s Khayala in the first week of May. In the latest operation, the narcotics cell said it received information that on May 27, Sumit alias Sunny (33), would be supplying heroin to someone in Aman Vihar.Accordingly, a trap was laid and Sunny was caught with 1kg of heroin estimated to be worth around ₹1.5 crore in the international market.A case was registered and Sunny was arrested, said deputy commissioner of police (crime) Chinmoy Biswal.During interrogation, Sunny revealed that while his father worked in a factory, his mother and sister were involved in bootlegging.Two cases under the Excise Act were registered against his mother while the sister has one similar case against her. Initially, Sunny was also involved in the same business and was last arrested in 2007.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-police-narcotics-cell-nabs-drug-peddler-with-1kg-heroin-101622397881922.html
31-05-2021||Delhi||26-year-old dies by suicide in east Delhi, a day after being beaten by local residents||A 26-year-old man was found dead at his home in East Delhi’s New Ashok Nagar last week, in what the police said appeared to be a case of suicide, prompting his family to allege that he took the step because of being “beaten and humiliated” by some local residents and the police a day earlier.The family approached the police with CCTV camera footage in which the man is seen being roughed up, but the police said they are yet to determine if he was manhandled by local residents alone or if the police were also involved, as the victim’s family alleged.The police said that while they were looking into the allegations, they said there was little evidence to suggest his suicide was prompted by the previous day’s events.The victim’s brother said that when the victim got home on the evening of May 19, he did not open the door because he was drunk at that time.“I couldn’t wake up in time and my brother decided to break open a side glass window to get into the house,” said the victim’s brother, who was alone in the house at that time.The police said that as he broke the window open, he accidentally damaged a neighbourhood gas pipeline. This infuriated some residents who allegedly beat him up, the victim’s brother and police said.Soon, the police arrived at the spot, and the victim’s brother alleged that the police slapped him repeatedly. “When the police decided to take only my brother to the police station, he crawled under the police vehicle [to escape],” the brother said. Soon after, the matter was settled at the spot itself, he said. No police case has been filed in the death so far.“Legal proceedings into the cause of the death are going on. The allegations made by his family will be looked into,” said Deepak Yadav, DCP (east).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/man-dies-of-suicide-a-day-after-being-beaten-by-locals-101622397821864.html
31-05-2021||Delhi||Amid Class 12 exam doubts, CICSE collates average scores||The Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CICSE) has started collating the internal test results and average Class 11 and Class 12 scores of all candidates appearing for ISC (Indian School Certificate) papers at all its affiliated schools this year, according to a letter issued by the chief of the board.The move, said officials in several schools, indicates that the board might be considering evaluating students based on these marks in the event the Class 12 exams are not held due to the Covid-19 situation across the country, a claim that the CICSE’s chief executive and secretary Gerry Arathoon denied.The board in April cancelled the Class 10 (ICSE) exams and postponed the Class 12 tests, which were scheduled to start on May 4 due to the surge in Covid-19 cases.In a letter sent on May 27, Arathoon asked all affiliated schools to send the board the required test scores by June 7.“The CISCE is in the process of collating and collecting data from all our schools presenting candidates for the Class 12 examination. You are, therefore, requested to provide the requested information for Class 12 candidates,” he said in the letter.The board has asked schools for the average marks scored by the candidates in Class 11 (during the 2019-20 session) as well as the average marks scored in internal tests and examinations in Class 12 (in the 2020-21 session).“The papers and subjects must be the same for which the candidates have been registered and confirmed for Class 12 examination. The submission of the average marks of papers should be done online, through the internal assessment module on the CAREERS Portal,” he said in the letter.Schools have also been asked to upload the candidates’ consolidated Class 11 and 12 marksheets so that the marks can be verified. For candidates who have changed schools after Class 11, the student’s current school will have to ask the previous school for this information.The principal of a CICSE-affiliated school in Gurugram, who asked not to be named, said, “It looks like the board has already decided its plan B and will evaluate students based on the average of Class 11 marks and Class 12 internal scores in case exams don’t take place.”When HT contacted Arathoon, he denied that the board was planning to cancel exams.“We just wanted to collect this data for our own information. We will wait for the Union education ministry to announce its decision on class 12 exams and then only we will take any decision,” he said.The Union education ministry will announce its decision regarding the Class 12 exams, including those conducted by the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) by Tuesday.A senior official of CBSE, who asked not to be named, said, “The board is waiting for a direction from the Union education ministry. We will announce the decision by Tuesday.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/amid-doubts-over-class-12-board-exams-cisce-asks-schools-for-students-internal-test-scores-101622397761978.html
31-05-2021||Delhi||People with disabilities suffer as Covid limits access to care||Vijay Pandurang (45) is blind and lives alone in south Delhi’s Katwaria Serai. In the first week of April, he developed extreme fatigue and headache. He called up a few neighbours, requesting them to take him to a hospital, but no one did. “Helping me meant they would have to physically support me and they feared they might contract Covid if I had the infection.One night, I felt so sick that I slumped in the bathroom and could not get up for half an hour,” says Pandurang, who hails from Maharashtra and works with the central government in the Capital.The next morning, he called up a senior colleague, who took him to several hospitals, but all refused to treat him or conduct a Covid test saying they had run out of test kits.“Finally, one hospital gave me a few injections in the emergency ward to relieve my headache and conducted a Covid test, which returned positive. Since I could not afford treatment in that hospital, I kept calling my friends to arrange a hospital bed for me,” says Pandurang.After two days, his friends managed to get him admitted to a Covid care centre in Chhatarpur through a volunteer organization. “My oxygen level was 80 at the time of admission. I always knew that I was dependent on others because of my disability, but I never felt so vulnerable and helpless. Though I am blind, our healthcare system did not show any sympathy for me,” says a dejected Pandurang.He is not the only one. Many people with disabilities who tested positive during the second wave of Covid-19 have had harrowing experiences while trying to access healthcare— a herculean task for them even in normal times.The social media was full of SOS messages from people with disabilities and their caregivers. Disability groups ran an online campaign with the hashtag #Disabled LivesMatter to draw the government’s attention to their plight. Most received help from voluntary groups and NGOs working for people with disabilities.According to World Bank data, India has 40 to 80 million people with disabilities.The 2011 census pegged this figure at 26.8 million, with the National Capital Territory of Delhi accounting for 234,000, a number disputed by disability rights activists, who say that the actual figure is much higher.The pandemic, people with disabilities say, has brought to the fore the inadequacies of the healthcare system in responding to their needs“During the second wave, many more people with disabilities were infected. We got about 30 calls per day seeking help with medicines, tests, hospital and vaccinations,” says K C Pande, executive secretary, Blind Relief Association, an NGO that started a Covid helpline for the visually impaired earlier this month.Ramdas Bhardwaj (40), who like Pandurang is totally blind, says the reason for panic is because people are reluctant to lend a helping hand for fear of contracting the virus. Besides, a majority of people with disabilities have poor health outcomes, low literacy and are poor and unemployed.One day in April, Bhardwaj felt feverish, but since he couldn’t see, he had never bought a thermometer. His roommate too was blind. The next morning, he started coughing and felt breathless by evening. He called up an NGO for help, which, after three days of frenetic phone calls, managed to get him admitted to Sanjay Gandhi Hospital.“ In the hospital, I was on oxygen support for five days, completely dependent on the nurses for everything, including going to the washroom. A kind neighbour has so far helped me with the food but I have no money for fruits and protein-rich diet that doctors advised me,” says Bhardwaj, who lost his job last year in a candle-making unit during lockdown and lives alone in Anandpur Dham, Karala, in north-west Delhi.Families of people with disabilities too have had a tough time.Tripta Gupta (27) lives with her blind father in Krishna Nagar. In the last week of April, her father had a low-grade fever for a week and one day, suddenly at midnight, his oxygen level dropped to 88.“I took him to many hospitals in an auto, but they did not admit him. They could see my father is blind, but that evoked no sympathy,” says Gupta, who finally got him admitted with the help of a relative to a Covid care centre in east Delhi. Gupta says her father struggled at the centre as he needed assistance every step of the way. “There should be dedicated hospitals for people with disabilities,” she said.Rahul Thakur (34), who is deaf, could not agree more. Last month, he tested positive and spent a week visiting diagnostic centres and hospitals where he had a hard time communicating with doctors. “Though I was accompanied by my father-in-law, it was not easy to convey symptoms of my illness to doctors. I had to frenetically gesture, act out, and write on paper,” says Thakur, taking to HT with the help of a sign language interpreter. Thakur lives in Noida with his wife, who is also deaf.A.S.Narayanan, president of National Association of the Deaf, said communication barrier is the biggest challenge for a deaf person. “ If they get sick and have to go to the hospital, they face several obstacles in communicating to the healthcare workers due to the absence of interpreters and so they might not get adequate care.”Ruma Roka, founder of Noida Deaf Society which works for the welfare of the deaf, says her organization helped many deaf people consult doctors on video calls through sign language interpreters. “In fact, eight of our own colleagues, all deaf, were infected and had difficulty in communicating symptoms even to their family. Hospitals need to have a lot of visual communication through telescreen, signage, and posters to help the deaf,” says Roka.“Our healthcare system must work to be more inclusive and needs to accord priority to people with disabilities in treatment and vaccination. All pandemic-related information should be made available in a format accessible to them. Healthcare workers should be sensitized towards their needs during their training itself,” says Nikhil Jain, president of Sambhavana, a disability rights organization.When asked about the demands of the disability groups, Rajendra Pal Gautam, Delhi’s minister for social welfare, said, “We are already setting up vaccination centres exclusively for people with disabilities in all districts. We are also exploring the possibility of doorstep vaccination for those who cannot come to a centre. We have not received any demand as far as treatment and testing is concerned.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/people-with-disabilities-suffer-as-covid-limits-access-to-care-101622397701857.html
31-05-2021||Gurugram||Strong winds uproot trees; turbulent weather conditions predicted for 2 days||Strong winds, accompanied by a drizzle, on Sunday evening uprooted trees and damaged electricity poles in a few areas of the city. Weather officials said that thunderstorm, accompanied by squall, lightning and spells of rain was observed in many parts of south Haryana on Sunday evening due to a western disturbance.Experts at the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said that Gurugram is likely to witness light rain over the next two days. As per the forecast of IMD, one or two spells of rain or thundershowers is expected between May 31 and June 1. Further, there is a possibility of rain or thundershowers later in the week too.As per the weekly forecast of the IMD, the maximum temperature over the next three days is expected to be around 37-40 degrees Celsius and the minimum temperature, around 26-28 degrees Celsius.On Sunday, Gurugram recorded a maximum temperature of 38.7 ° C, three degrees below the normal, and a minimum temperature of 25.7°C, which was one degree below normal.Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre said, “Gurugram will witness light rainfall over the next two days due to western disturbance in the hills. Rainfall will be isolated in Faridabad and Gurugram but will be accompanied by high-speed winds. This is likely to bring the temperature down by one or two degrees over the next few days.”On Sunday evening, the meteorological centre (MC) of Chandigarh had also issued an alert. “Thunderstorm accompanied with squall (speed 50-60 kmph), lightning and intense spell of rain is very likely over parts of Charkhi Dadri, Jhajjar, Mahendragarh, Rewari, Palwal, Mewat, Gurugram, Faridabad, Sonipat, Rohtak, Bhiwani and adjoining areas in the next 2-3 hours,” the alert stated.In the evening, MC, Chandigarh, also warned that thunderstorm and lightning with gusty winds (speed 30-40 kmph) are likely at isolated places in Gurugram and Faridabad district on Monday and Tuesday.The city’s air quality has remained in the satisfactory zone for the past two days. On Sunday, the Central Pollution Control Board’s air quality index (AQI) bulletin recorded a value of 81, up from the AQI of 77 recorded on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/strong-winds-uproot-trees-poles-turbulent-weather-conditions-predicted-for-two-days-101622395243769.html
31-05-2021||Gurugram||200 transgenders, sex workers vaccinated at special camp in Gurugram||Around 200 persons were inoculated at a special camp set up for transgenders and commercial sex workers at a government school in Dundahera on Sunday.Transgenders from across the district, such as Dundahera and Sirhaul among other areas got the jab at the camp from 10am to 4pm, said the district health department officials on Sunday.“We have vaccinated 190 transgenders community during the vaccination camp, and the response was very good. We are making all efforts to reach out to marginal sections of the population so that they are not left out,” said chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Virender Yadav. He had inaugurated the vaccination camp on Sunday morning.Around 750 transgenders had registered themselves for the jab, as per the district data.Yadav said that they held a meeting with the representatives of the transgender community, and the NGO working with them on Saturday, and a detailed plan was made so that the maximum number of people go the jab during the drive. “Earlier, we carried out a drive for people with special needs. It was successful. We will conduct more such drives for those with special needs,” he said.The health department also said that a camp for such individuals will be held at a subdivisional hospital in Pataudi on Monday. “Beneficiaries who need a pick and drop facility would be given this facility. We appeal to the people in Pataudi that they should get vaccinated in this camp,” said Yadav.Srikant Kumar, programme manager, NGO Sauswa, who works with transgenders, said that this was a great initiative, and the entire community is “thankful to the authorities and the health department for the inclusive step”. “The transgenders community appreciated this move,” he said.Details on others who got vaccinated at the camp on Sunday were not immediately available.Walk-in vaccination at 37 sitesMeanwhile, in a related development, the health department said that it would avail vaccination at 37 session sites across the district on Monday, for the 18-45 category. Nearly 200 jabs per site will be administered on a first-come-first-serve basis. The beneficiaries would be allowed to walk-in, and they can get vaccinated without prior registration or slot booking.CMO Yadav said that the beneficiaries do not need to get themselves registered, and they would be served on first-come-first-serve basis. “Those who haven’t got the first dose should come at the session sites and get the vaccines,” said Yadav, adding that this was done for a day, and they would repeat this exercise if the response was good.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/200-transgenders-sex-workers-vaccinated-at-special-camp-in-ggm-101622395242435.html
31-05-2021||Gurugram||Lockdown in Haryana extended till June 7, shops allowed to reopen||The Haryana government on Sunday extended the lockdown in the state till June 7, but announced relaxations in shop timings and mall operations, chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar announced during a virtual press conference on Sunday morning.As per the directives, shops in markets are allowed to open from 9am to 3pm on alternative days, based on an odd-even formula. Shops with odd numbers will be allowed to open on odd dates while those with even numbers will open on even dates.Also, shopping malls are allowed to open from 10am to 6pm, albeit with a limited number of people, depending on the size of the mall. An order issued by the Haryana government stipulated that malls will have to ensure that one person per 25 square feet space is allowed inside such places. Visitors inside the malls would be allowed only for a limited time and fresh entries would depend on the number of people inside the mall at a particular time.A spokesperson for the Gurugram district administration said that while malls will be allowed to open, they must observe strict Covid-19 protocols. A detailed order will be issued on Monday, the spokesperson said.“Joint commissioners of the respective zones of the municipal corporations and secretaries of the respective municipal committees shall be responsible for enforcement of these instructions in true letter and sprit and they shall be assisted by the executive magistrates and SHOs of the concerned area,” said Yash Garg, deputy commissioner, Gurugram, who issued directions on Sunday evening.Officials said that the night curfew will remain in force from 10pm to 5am.Khattar said that although the Covid-19 situation was improving, the lockdown was extended to prevent any spread of the infection. He said that schools and colleges in the state would remain closed till June 15, while anganwaris would remain closed till June 30.The order issued by Haryana chief secretary Vijai Vardhan also allowed hotels to open for room occupancy, but barred conference rooms, banquet halls, restaurants and bars in hotels from reopening.Officials said that stand-alone shops can remain open throughout the day.Earlier in the morning, Khattar said that they received representations from several market associations, demanding relaxations in the opening of shops, due to which they decided to allow reopening.The Haryana government had imposed a weekend lockdown in the state from April 30 to May 3 in nine districts, including Gurugram and Faridabad. However, due to the rising number of Covid-19 cases, the state government imposed a statewide lockdown for a week from May 3 and has been extending it weekly. Last week, the government announced relaxations in curbs, which were further extended on Sunday.Yashpal Yadav, the deputy commissioner of Faridabad, said that shops in markets where numbers are marked would follow the odd-even formula while shops on roadsides, which are not marked, will open on alternate days on the left and right side of the road, as is being followed at present. “The shop owners and malls that are allowed to open must ensure that social distancing norms are followed strictly,” he saidYadav, however, said that cinema halls, bars and restaurants would not be allowed to open inside the malls, but they can continue serving takeaway food orders, as is the practice at present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/lockdown-extended-till-june-7-shops-allowed-to-reopen-101622395182321.html
31-05-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana: People with municipality property on lease, rent for over two decades to get ownership||People occupying municipality property, such as houses and shops, either on lease or on rent basis for the past two decades or more will be given ownership rights subject to the payment of fee as per the policy coming into force from June 1. Addressing a press conference, chief minister (CM) Manohar Lal Khattar said a policy has been framed under which the tenant will have to pay less than the present collector rate to get the ownership right. If anyone has taken a shop, house on the municipal land either on rent, lease basis, tehbazari or by paying license fee for 20 years or more, then all such occupiers will be given ownership rights under this policy. As per the policy, the occupant should have completed 20 years as of December 31, 2020. At least 20% rebate will be given on the current collector rate to the tenants who have been residing in the house or are running a shop for the past 20 years. Those with occupancy period of 50 years will get a rebate of up to 50%. The maximum rebate in payment of collector rate under this policy has been capped at 50%, said Khattar. The beneficiary will have to deposit 25% of the total fixed amount to the municipality concerned within 15 days after issuance of the notice, while the remaining 75% amount will have to be deposited within three months. The CM announced that if the municipality has rented or leased any land building to one or more occupiers in that case, the amount will have to be paid as per the fixed floor-wise formula. If only one person has been allotted the constructed building, the base rate will have to be paid for that. If the municipality has constructed two floors and each floor is given to two different allottees, then 60% of the base rate for the ground floor and 40% of the base rate for the first floor will have to be paid. In case of a three-floor building allotted to three parties, 50% of the base rate (ground floor), 30% of the base rate for the first floor and 20% of the base rate for the second floor will be paid. The roof rights will be given to the allottee owning the top floor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/people-with-municipality-property-on-lease-rent-for-over-two-decades-to-get-ownership-101622395002251.html
31-05-2021||Delhi||Industries prepare to open with Covid tests and vaccinations||With plans to open Covid-19 test camps, vaccinate workers, make staggered lunch hours, and, perhaps the most important, invest in efforts to bring back workers who had left for their villages, enterprises in industrial areas in Delhi and construction agencies are prepared to resume business from Monday after six weeks of lockdown that was imposed in the Capital in the light of an unprecedented Covid-19 surge.“We will strictly adhere to social distancing and Covid-19 regulations but only a small number of workers are likely to be present for the next few weeks. The government is going to assess the situation weekly. So, there is fear that if Covid-19 cases go up, the lockdown can be imposed again. Both employees and employers are treading with caution,” said Prabhu Dayal Gupta, owner of a factory that produces metal wires and sheets, and president of the Patparganj factory owners’ and entrepreneurs’ welfare association.Such anxieties loomed over all industrial areas in the city even as they prepared for resuming business after a long time.Satish Chhabra, vice-chairman of Narela industrial complex welfare association said, “There is fear that business operations can be suspended again but it will always be there with Covid-19 cases going up. So, we have to have good strategies in place. We have decided to vaccinate all our workers in collaboration with a private hospital.”Several other factory owners across industrial areas in Delhi told HT that they will be vaccinating their employees and shared plans to periodically set up Covid-19 test centres.“Business recovery will take a long time. So, production capacities are not likely to touch 50% any time soon. Also, a large number of labourers and workers who left the city during the lockdown are unlikely to return soon with their savings depleted in treatment of their relatives infected by Covid-19, lack of job security and fear of another wave of the pandemic which may again lead to a lockdown. Currently, only workers who have a house in slums are left in the city, that must be less than 20% of the total workforce,” said Neeraj Sehgal, general secretary of Mayapuri industrial area welfare association.With construction activity allowed from Monday, construction firms and labour contractors have started mobilising the workforce. But labour contractors say that it will take some time due to the impact of cyclone in West Bengal, Bihar and rise in Covid cases in rural areas.Shamim, a labour contractor working with government firms, said, “Most of the people working with me hail from Bihar. They have not been able to come due to heavy rains there. We have informed the workers that they can now come back.”Anuj Dayal, executive director, corporate communications, Delhi Metro Rail Corporation, said, “There was a significant decline in the number of workers during the lockdown. However, during these difficult times also, we took care of the workers who were available by taking care of their medical and other requirements. With the lifting of restrictions, we are hopeful that more workers will gradually join back their sites.The National Buildings Construction Corporation (NBCC India), which is carrying out several important projects in the city such as redevelopment of Pragati Maidan, residential and commercial complex at Sarojini Nagar and Nauroji Nagar etc, said that work was going on but at slow pace.“I think construction activity is not banned as works at NBCC sites are already on though with reduced labour. We hope that labourers will start coming back after lockdown and supply chains will also be restored,” said PK Gupta, Chairman and Director of NBCC (India) Limited.Thaneshwar Adigaur, secretary of the Delhi Asangathit Nirman Mazdoor Union, said that this will only benefit big projects, as those working in the informal sectors are not likely to get work.“The markets are closed. Where will construction workers in the informal sector buy construction material from? The marble, sanitaryware, markets etc are all closed. It will take some time for the labour to return. By the time work picks up pace, it will be July and work will again get affected due to the monsoon season,” said Adigaur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/unlock-delhi-industrial-areas-prepare-to-reopen-with-covid-testing-and-vaccination-of-workers-101622391641524.html
31-05-2021||Other||Prioritise vax for parents to be ready for third wave: district task force chief, Dr Kadam||PUNE During an online meeting organised by the Indian Medical Association (IMA) Pune chapter on Sunday, the district task force head Dr Dileep Kadam suggested that the Covid-19 vaccination of parents whose children are aged 10 years and below, should be prioritised. He said that since the isolation of younger children might require parents to stay with them, the parents also have to be vaccinated. He also stated that in addition to Covid-19 care facilities for children, post infection facilities also need to be set up. Addressing the IMA meet, Dr Kadam, who heads Pune’s Covid-19 task force said, “The challenges in the third wave would be isolation of the infected children who are dependent on their parents, especially those children aged below 6-7 years. In view of this vaccination of parents must be prioritised. Multiple hospitals are being set up by PMC and other agencies, but more have to be set up. The necessary approved medicines have to be stocked, as the use of Remdesivir in children is still under trial. Most importantly, routine immunisation programmes have to be continued, especially the influenza vaccine, because the symptoms of both influenza and Covid are very similar.”He added, “In the third wave, the presentation of symptoms among the age group of 18-45 years is likely to remain the same, which is in the lungs and respiratory system. While in the age group of 18-12 years, we would see most patients show both, Covid-19 and post Covid-19 symptoms. The most number of post Covid symptoms would be among the age group of 0-12 years, wherein the most important symptom would be swelling of the heart. So we have to be prepared for Covid as well as post-Covid symptoms. Multiple system inflammatory syndrome (MSIS) which is now reported commonly in children would be more impactful in the third wave and for that we have to keep the intravenous immunoglobulin treatment ready.”He said, “The third wave is likely to come mid-August to October. There are multiple contributing factors, one of which is the weather. During this period the minimum temperature is 10 degree Celsius, while maximum is more than double the minimum. Also, the reason why Pune is being most affected could be because of its location and overall climate. Pune is also surrounded by mountains and so winds entering the district do not leave easily. Pune is also an education hub and the movement of people from city to rural areas is very rampant, more than any other city. Even during swine flu we saw that Pune was most affected.” In addition to Dr Kadam, other speakers included Dr Bharat Purandare, infectious disease specialist, Dr Kailas Sant, ENT specialist, and Dr Sanjay Patil, past president, IMA Pune. Murlidhar Mohol, mayor of Pune city was the chief guest and Ravindra Shisve, joint police commissioner, was the guest of honour.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/prioritise-vax-for-children-to-circumvent-third-wave-district-task-force-chief-dr-kadam-101622388101060.html
31-05-2021||Pune||PMC’s Mandai demolition drive leaves vendors broken; threaten indefinite hunger strike||PUNE It was a a shock for Mahesh Jadhav and his family, when they came to know that their stall at Mandai, had been broken down in the anti-encroachment action taken by the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) on Saturday. “I got a call from one of my friends early in the morning that JCB machines and huge police bandobast is there. All the stalls are being removed. We immediately rushed to the spot, but nothing was left. They even didn’t gave us time to remove our goods and material from the shop. Now my wife, son and other family members are taking away what is left in the broken stall,” said Jadhav, a fruit vendor at Mahatma Phule Mandai. On Saturday morning, the PMC, along with the police razed at least 100 stalls/shops to make way for a Metro underground station. Somnath Kanchi, president of the Mahatma Phule Mandai fruit vendors’ association, said, “The action taken by PMC on Saturday was very ruthless and will have an impact on thousands of people who were owners of grocery and fruit shops, and their workers. We had a meeting with the PMC officials on May 27 in which we suggested some changes to be done while shifting us to a new place. At that time they agreed and suddenly on Saturday, JCB machines with police came early in the morning and started breaking down our shops. We do not oppose the Metro project, but this is not right. We are now going to take up this issue in the court and within couple of days we are going to start an indefinite hunger strike for our demands.”There are 105 small and big shops in this area and some have been open for 100 years. Grocery shop owner Jignesh Shah, whose shop was also taken down, said, “Our entire shop is down and within one day we are out of business. This was started 100 years ago by my grandfather. They should have given us prior notice, so we could have removed our goods safely. Families of hundreds of workers who are working in this market are also going to suffer now. The alternative space for our shops is very small and congested. There is hardly any space to walk, park vehicles, so it is inconvenient for the public as well.” Rajendra Bhagwan Dimbar, a senior citizen and one of the oldest fruit vendors in this market said, “As the mango season is going on, we had a lot of stock and pulp bottles. Yesterday, when the PMC JCB machines were breaking down the shops, they did it so mercilessly that we were not able to take our fruits and goods out. There is loss of around ₹3 lakh. None of the politicians and political parties came to help us.” In Saturday’s PMC anti-encroachment drive, structures spread over 5,000 square feet were cleared. Mandai market is one of the main metro stations between the underground stretch from Agriculture college to Swargate, part of the 16-kilometre Pimpri-Chinchwad to Swargate corridor. The Mandai metro underground station has been pending due to land acquisition. Madhav Jagtap, head of PMC’s anti-encroachment department said, “We had subsequent meetings with the grocery shop and fruit vendors from this area and it was a long pending issue to relocate them. As the Metro work was getting delayed the action was taken on Saturday and it still will continue till the debris is removed from the spot. They have been given an alternative space to do their business in a nearby area.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmcs-mandai-demolition-drive-leaves-vendors-broken-threaten-indefinite-hunger-strike-101622386720839.html
31-05-2021||World||Iran fails to explain uranium traces found at several sites: IAEA report||Iran has failed to explain traces of uranium found at several undeclared sites, a report by the U.N. nuclear watchdog showed on Monday, possibly setting up a fresh diplomatic clash between Tehran and the West that could derail wider nuclear talks.Three months ago Britain, France and Germany scrapped a U.S.-backed plan for the International Atomic Energy Agency's 35-nation Board of Governors to criticise Iran for failing to fully explain the origin of the particles; the three backed off as IAEA chief Rafael Grossi announced fresh talks with Iran."After many months, Iran has not provided the necessary explanation for the presence of the nuclear material particles at any of the three locations where the Agency has conducted complementary accesses (inspections)," a report by Grossi to member states seen by Reuters said.It will now be up to the three European powers to decide whether to revive their push for a resolution criticising Iran, which could undermine wider negotiations to revive the 2015 Iran nuclear deal at talks currently underway in Vienna. Grossi had hoped to report progress before the board meets again next week."The Director General is concerned that the technical discussions between the Agency and Iran have not yielded the expected results," the report said."The lack of progress in clarifying the Agency's questions concerning the correctness and completeness of Iran's safeguards declarations seriously affects the ability of the Agency to provide assurance of the peaceful nature of Iran's nuclear programme," it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/iran-fails-to-explain-uranium-traces-found-at-several-sites-iaea-report-101622483802184.html
31-05-2021||World||Explained: China’s family planning laws over the years||China on Monday announced a new relaxation to its family planning rules allowing couples in the country to have upto three children now, an increase from the two children allowed previously. The new measures were announced after the latest data in this month from the National Bureau of Statistic in Beijing showed that the annual births plummeted to historic low of 12 million in the year 2020, news agency AFP reported.The fertility rate in the world’s populous nation currently stands at 1.3 which is beneath the levels needed to maintain a stable population, the latest data showed. The decision was announced after a meeting by the Political Bureau of the ruling Communist Party of China (CPC), headed by President Xi Jinping.Also, many supporting measures for families such as improving maternity leaves, universal childcare and lowering education costs were promised by the meeting in the wake of the new measures.As China relaxes its family planning rules, here is a look at the previous laws in place regarding the issue and how they have changed over the years.One-child policyChina’s well-known one child policy was implemented initially in the year 1979 and the government had it in effect for decades before eventually relaxing it in the year 2016 (when the changes came into effect). Since then, the government allowed for couples to have up to two kids.The one-child policy was widely criticised for the fact that it was a violation of fundamental human rights and reproductive freedom, the BBC reported back in 2015, citing experts in China and the West. Also, many rich families circumvented the rule by paying fines, the BBC report said.Relaxations and changes made furtherGrowing concerns regarding the issues with one-child policy pushed the Chinese government to announce that couples, where at least one partner is an only child, would be allowed to have two children, in the year 2013, according to a report by China-based CGTN.In the year 2016, the government replaced the one-child policy with the two-child policy, a relaxation to the existing decades-old law. Despite a growth in the number of births in 2016, the count has fallen from 2017 to 2020 for four years in a row, the report showed.Also, many have criticised the new reforms in Chinese social media platforms, saying that it is only possible for the rich people and others are already facing many challenges such as longer working hours and increasing housing prices.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/explained-china-s-family-planning-laws-over-the-years-101622482863752.html
31-05-2021||World||Pfizer's Covid-19 vaccine approved for minors aged 12-15 in Japan: Report||The Japanese government approved Pfizer's Covid-19 vaccine for ages 12 to 15 on Monday, the media reported.According to the Japanese Kyodo news agency, this newly approved age group will not be getting the vaccine instantly as the country is still vaccinating medical staff and senior citizens. So far, an estimated 6% of the Japanese population has taken at least one shot of a vaccine, which is lower when compared to other developed nations.Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga has promised to speed up the effort and ensure complete vaccination of the elderly before the commencement of the Tokyo Olympics in July.In a parallel development, Japan has approved the storage guidelines for the Pfizer vaccine that will allow for month-long storage at 2-8 degrees Celsius (36-46 degrees Fahrenheit) after removal from the freezer, instead of five days.The US pharmaceutical company had advised that 12 to 15 year olds be made eligible after a successful clinical trial including 2,260 children revealed a 100% efficacy rate, with none developing any symptom except for 18 who were given a placebo.Earlier in the month, the United States and the European Union approved this vaccine for use within this age group.Japan approved the Pfizer dose for persons aged 16 and above in February and has agreements for enough shots for 97 million people, while also entering supply deals with British drug maker AstraZeneca and US biotechnology firm Moderna, which have also passed the clinical test indicating its safe usage for age 12 and above.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pfizers-covid-19-vaccine-approved-for-minors-aged-12-15-in-japan-report-101622482448708.html
31-05-2021||World||WHO chief calls for international treaty for pandemic preparedness as part of bold reforms||The head of the World Health Organization (WHO) called on Monday for launching negotiations this year on an international treaty to boost pandemic preparedness, as part of sweeping reforms envisioned by member states.Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, WHO director-general, told its annual ministerial assembly that the UN agency faced a "serious challenge" to maintain its Covid-19 response at the current level and required sustainable and flexible funding.Earlier in the day - the last of the week-long assembly - health ministers agreed to study recommendations for ambitious reforms made by independent experts to strengthen the capacity of both the WHO and countries to contain new viruses.The ministers from the WHO's 194 member states are to meet from Nov. 29 to decide whether to launch negotiations on the pandemic treaty."The one recommendation that I believe will do most to strengthen both WHO and global health security is the recommendation for a treaty on pandemic preparedness and response," Tedros said. "This is an idea whose time has come."It could be a long road ahead if such a treaty is to be reached. The WHO's Framework Convention on Tobacco Control - the world's first public health treaty - was clinched in 2003 after four years of negotiations.The WHO, which has been at the heart of the world's sluggish response to the Covid-19 pandemic, faces a potential shake-up to prevent future outbreaks.Under the resolution submitted by the European Union, and adopted by consensus, member states are to be firmly in the driver's seat of the reforms through a year-long process."It's essential that we strengthen global (disease) surveillance and provide the World Health Organization with the authority and the capacity to do this important job for all the peoples of the world," Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison told the talks."If we are to deliver on this ambitious reform agenda, then we must work together and put other issues aside," he said.The new virus has infected more than 170 million people and killed nearly 3.7 million since emerging in China in late 2019, according to a Reuters tally of official national figures."PATHOGENS HAVE THE UPPER HAND"WHO's emergencies director, Mike Ryan, welcomed the decisions, saying: "Right now the pathogens have the upper hand, they are emerging more frequently and often silently in a planet that is out of balance."We need to turn that very thing that has exposed us in this pandemic, our interconnectedness, we need to turn that into a strength," he said.Chile's ambassador Frank Tressler Zamorano said on behalf of 60 countries that a pandemic treaty would help "heed the call by so many experts to reset the system".One panel, headed by former New Zealand Prime Minister Helen Clark and Ellen Johnson Sirleaf, a former president of Liberia, said a new global system should be set up to respond faster to disease outbreaks to help ensure no future virus causes a pandemic as devastating as Covid-19.The experts, who found crucial failures in the global response in early 2020, said the WHO should be given the power to send investigators swiftly to chase down new disease outbreaks and to publish their full findings without delay.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/who-chief-calls-for-international-treaty-for-pandemic-preparedness-as-part-of-bold-reforms-101622479475091.html
31-05-2021||World||Sinovac vaccine 'controlled' Covid-19 in Brazil town, study finds||The vaccine developed by Sinovac Biotech Ltd. was effective in controlling Covid-19 in a mass-inoculation study in a small Brazilian town after 75% of adults were covered with a second shot.The study carried out by the Sao Paulo state government in the small town of Serrana -- population 45,000 -- may offer clues for other developing nations on how much of the public needs to be vaccinated in order to begin moving past the pandemic that continues to wreak havoc in Latin America and beyond.The full results will be released during a press conference later on Monday with initial data broadcast on Sunday evening during TV Globo’s “Fantastico” program which interviewed researchers leading the project. While infection rates improved after first doses were administered, Covid-19 wasn’t properly controlled in the town until after a second shot was given, the researchers said.The study was led by the Butantan Institute, which produces Sinovac’s so-called CoronaVac in Brazil. Almost two thirds of Serrana’s 45,000 inhabitants got the vaccine between February and April with another third ineligible to receive the shot if they were under 18 years old or pregnant. About 95% of the targeted adult population received the required two doses in the study.While neighboring cities were being hit hard by the pandemic, Serrana saw deaths fall by 95% right after the mass-vaccination, symptomatic cases dropped by 80% and hospitalizations decreased by 86%, the report said. They didn’t say what time period was being used for the data.Serrana mayor Leo Capitalize said in an interview that 40 days ago, 160-180 people were seeking a hospital bed on a daily basis and that test positivity rates were at 69%. Now, the number of people seeking attention in the hospital due to Covid is down to 30 to 35 people and positivity is down to 20%.At the time the project was announced in February, Butantan researchers said the study aimed to show the effectiveness of CoronaVac to control cases, deaths and hospitalizations from Covid-19 in the real world, and if the shot is able to reduce transmission, not only symptomatic cases.Sinovac’s vaccine is being used widely in the developing world including Chile, Turkey, Indonesia and the Philippines.The findings also underline the importance of people returning for a second shot. In Brazil, some 66 million vaccines have been administered, covering 21.4% of the population with a single dose. About 10.5% of the country is now considered to be fully inoculated, according to the Bloomberg vaccine tracker.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/sinovac-vaccine-controlled-covid-19-in-brazil-town-study-finds-101622479316860.html
31-05-2021||World||France, other European countries demand answers after US-Danish spying claims||France warned Monday that alleged US spying on European allies using Danish underwater cables would be "extremely serious" if confirmed, as questions mounted over whether Denmark knew what the US was doing.In an investigative report on Sunday, Danish public broadcaster Danmarks Radio (DR) and other European media outlets said the US National Security Agency (NSA) had eavesdropped on Danish underwater internet cables from 2012 to 2014 to spy on top politicians in Germany, Sweden, Norway and France.The NSA was able to access text messages, telephone calls and internet traffic including searches, chats and messaging services -- including those of Germany's Chancellor Angela Merkel, then-foreign minister Frank-Walter Steinmeier and then-opposition leader Peer Steinbruck, DR said."It is extremely serious," France's Europe Minister Clement Beaune told France Info radio."We need to see if our partners in the EU, the Danes, have committed errors or faults in their cooperation with American services," he said."Between allies, there must be trust, a minimal cooperation, so these potential facts are serious," said the minister.He said the facts must first "be verified" and then "conclusions drawn in terms of cooperation".'Unacceptable' Denmark's neighbours also demanded explanations."It's unacceptable if countries which have close allied cooperation feel the need to spy on one another," Norwegian Prime Minister Erna Solberg told public broadcaster NRK.She said Norway had asked Denmark "for all the information they have".Swedish Defence Minister Peter Hultqvist said he had been "in contact with Denmark's defence minister to ask if Danish platforms have been used to spy on Swedish politicians."A German government spokesman said Monday that Berlin was "in contact with all relevant national and international interlocutors to get clarification".DR said the NSA had taken advantage of a surveillance collaboration with Denmark's military intelligence unit FE to eavesdrop.But it was unclear whether Denmark knew at the time that the US was using the cables to spy on Denmark's neighbours.Contacted by AFP, Denmark's military intelligence unit refused to comment on the revelations.Defence Minister Trine Bramsen, who took over the defence portfolio in June 2019, has neither confirmed nor denied DR's report, telling AFP only that "systematic eavesdropping of close allies is unacceptable".US eavesdropping on European leaders is, however, not new.In 2013, former NSA contractor Edward Snowden revealed thousands of classified documents exposing the vast US surveillance put in place after the September 11, 2001 attacks.Among other things, the documents showed the US government was spying on its own citizens and carrying out widespread tapping worldwide, including of Merkel's mobile phone.However, if the Danish-US spying is confirmed, it went on during and after the 2013 Snowden affair.In 2014, following the Snowden scandal, a secret internal working group at FE began looking into whether the NSA had used the Danish-US spying collaboration -- called XKeyscore -- to spy on Denmark's allies, DR said.The group's report, codenamed Operation Dunhammer, was presented to top FE management in May 2015.What happened after that is not yet known.New pieces of the puzzleBramsen was however informed of the spying in August 2020, according to DR.Shortly after that, FE director Lars Findsen, his predecessor who was in the post until 2015 Thomas Ahrenkiel, and three other FE employees were removed from their positions but no full explanation was made public.At the time, the government said an audit had raised suspicions that FE was conducting illegal surveillance between 2014 and 2020.In November 2020, DR revealed that the US had used the Danish cables to spy on the Danish and European defence industries from 2012 to 2015.A month later, Denmark's justice ministry ordered a commission of inquiry into FE's operations. Its conclusions are due at the end of 2021.Snowden, who now lives in Russia, called on Twitter for "full public disclosure" from Denmark and the US.The latest revelations are "new pieces of the puzzle," Thomas Wegener Friis, an intelligence expert and professor at the University of Southern Denmark, told AFP."It's exactly the same kind of scandal as the one with German services helping the Americans to spy a few years ago," he added.Denmark is one of the United States' closest European allies and sent troops to fight in Iraq.It is the only Nordic country that is both a member of NATO and the EU.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/france-other-european-countries-demand-answers-after-us-danish-spying-claims-101622479035868.html
31-05-2021||World||Kremlin critic Alexei Navalny asks court to end prison security checks||Imprisoned Russian opposition leader Alexei Navalny asked a court Monday to halt the hourly night-time checks he has been subjected to in his penal colony.Speaking to the court in a video link from prison, Navalny charged that he has done nothing that would warrant the authorities' decision to designate him as a flight risk that has resulted in checks.“I just want them to stop coming to me and waking me up at night-time,” he told the judge in remarks that were broadcast by the independent Dozhd TV. “What did I do: Did I climb the fence? Did I dig up an underpass? Or was I wringing a pistol from someone? Just explain why they named me a flight risk!"He argued that the hourly night-time checks “effectively amount to torture,” telling the judge that “you would go mad in a week” if subjected to such regular wake-ups.The court later adjourned the hearing until Wednesday.Navalny, the most determined political foe of Russian President Vladimir Putin, was arrested in January upon his return from Germany, where he had spent five months recovering from a nerve agent poisoning that he blames on the Kremlin — accusations that Russian officials reject.In February, he was handed a 2 1/2-year sentence for violating terms of a suspended sentence stemming from a 2014 embezzlement conviction, which he says was politically motivated.He went on a 24-day hunger strike in prison to protest the lack of medical treatment for severe back pain and numbness in his legs, ending it last month after getting the medical attention he demanded.While he still was on hunger strike, Navalny was moved from a penal colony east of Moscow where he was serving his sentence to the hospital ward of another prison in Vladimir, a city 180 kilometers (110 miles) east of the capital. He still remains at that prison, where he said the night-time checks continued, although they were less intrusive.With Navalny in prison, prosecutors have asked a Moscow court to designate his Foundation for Fighting Corruption and his network of regional offices as extremist groups. A bill, which has sailed quickly through the Kremlin-controlled lower house of Russian parliament, bars members, donors and supporters of extremist groups from seeking public office.The parallel moves have been widely seen as an attempt to keep any of Navalny's associates from running in September's parliamentary election.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/kremlin-critic-alexei-navalny-asks-court-to-end-prison-security-checks-101622478248868.html
31-05-2021||World||BRICS foreign ministers to discuss Covid-19, countering terror at virtual meet||External affairs minister S Jaishankar and his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi are set to come face to face, albeit in a virtual format, on Tuesday during a meeting of foreign ministers of the BRICS grouping that is expected to focus on the response to the Covid-19 pandemic and global and regional issues.India is hosting the virtual meeting of the Brazil-Russia-India-China-South Africa group (BRICS) as its current chair. It will also be joined by Brazil’s Carlos Alberto Franco França, Russia’s Sergey Lavrov and South Africa’s Grace Naledi Mandisa Pandor. The rotating BRICS chair will pass to China in 2022.The meeting is being held against the backdrop of a dragging military standoff between India and China in the Ladakh sector of the Line of Actual Control (LAC) that has severely strained ties between the two countries.The foreign ministers are expected to exchange views on the Covid-19 pandemic, the need to reform the multilateral system to enhance its capacity to effectively address contemporary challenges, countering terrorism, sustainable development, global and regional issues, and ways to enhance intra-BRICS cooperation, the external affairs ministry said on Monday.The meeting will also prepare the grounds for the BRICS Summit to be hosted by India later this year, though the members of the grouping are yet to decide if it will be in-person or virtual.This is the third time India is holding the position of chair of BRICS after 2012 and 2016, and this has coincided with the 15th anniversary of the grouping. People familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity that meetings such as the one bringing together the foreign ministers on Tuesday are also an opportunity to review the work of BRICS to ensure greater efficiency and relevance.The theme for India’s chairmanship of BRICS is “BRICS@15: Intra-Brics cooperation for continuity, consolidation and consensus,” and the country’s priorities include reforming the multilateral system, counter-terror cooperation, and digital and technological tools for attaining the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).The BRICS’ foreign ministers first met in 2006, and over the past 15 years, the scope of the grouping has expanded to include strategic issues such as counter-terror and cyber security, and new areas of cooperation such as healthcare, and disaster management.The BRICS New Development Bank (NDB) has so far approved 76 projects worth more than $28 billion in the BRICS countries. A total of 18 projects worth $6.9 billion have been approved in India, including a loan of $2 billion under the emergency assistance programme in combating Covid-19.With the pandemic pushing millions into poverty and disrupting progress in achieving the SDGs, India will use its chairmanship of BRICS to frame practical measures with members of the grouping to harness digital and technological tools and solutions to achieve goals in healthcare, poverty, hunger, education and infrastructure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/brics-foreign-ministers-to-discuss-covid-19-countering-terror-at-virtual-meeting-101622478231857.html
31-05-2021||World||Joe Biden commemorates war dead at Arlington National Cemetery on Memorial Day||President Joe Biden honored America’s war dead at Arlington National Cemetery on Memorial Day by laying a wreath at the hallowed burial ground and extolling the sacrifices of the fallen for the pursuit of democracy.The president was joined on Monday by first lady Jill Biden, Vice President Kamala Harris and second gentleman Doug Emhoff in a somber ceremony at the Virginia cemetery's Tomb of the Unknown Soldier, which is dedicated to deceased service members whose remains have not been identified.His face tight with emotion, Biden walked up to the wreath, cupping it in his hands in silent reflection and then making the sign of the cross. Later, he called on Americans to commemorate their fallen heroes by remembering their fight for the nation's ideals.“This nation was built on an idea," Biden said in an address at Arlington. “We were built on an idea, the idea of liberty and opportunity for all. We’ve never fully realized that aspiration of our founders, but every generation has opened the door a little wider.”He focused much of his speech on the importance of democracy, saying that it thrives when citizens can vote, when there is a free press and when there are equal rights for all.“Generation after generation of American heroes are signed up to be part of the fight because they understand the truth that lives in every American heart: that liberation, opportunity, justice are far more likely to come to pass in a democracy than in an autocracy," Biden said.The Bidens stopped by a row of gravestones after the ceremony, holding hands and speaking with a family whose relative died during World War II.Other dignitaries at the Arlington event included Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin and Mark Milley, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.On Sunday, Biden addressed a crowd of Gold Star military families and other veterans in a ceremony at War Memorial Plaza in New Castle, Delaware. Earlier in the day, he and other family members attended a memorial Mass for his son Beau Biden, a veteran who died of brain cancer six years ago to the day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-president-joe-biden-commemorates-war-dead-at-arlington-national-cemetery-101622476963795.html
31-05-2021||World||In Israel, PM Netanyahu's rivals try to seal the deal on coalition to unseat him||Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu's rivals on Monday sought to finalise a unity coalition that would unseat the veteran Israeli leader, but political commentators saw a bitter fight ahead.Centrist opposition chief Yair Lapid secured support on Sunday from ultranationalist Naftali Bennett for a "change" government of ideologically disparate rivals.The deal, in which Bennett would serve first as prime minister under a rotation with Lapid, must be finalised by a deadline of midnight (2200GMT) on Wednesday.Netanyahu, 71, is the dominant political figure of his generation and his challengers have little in common - save a desire to emerge from his divisive shadow and from unprecedented turmoil which has seen four deadlocked elections in two years.Hoping to discredit Bennett and other rightists now negotiating with Lapid, Netanyahu has cast them as committing "the fraud of the century" which would, he said, imperil Israel.Lapid's riposte was restrained."A week from now, the State of Israel can be in a new era. Suddenly it will be quieter. Ministers will go to work without inciting, without lying, without trying to instil fear all of the time," he said in a televised address.Though he described Bennett as "my friend, the prime minister-designate" and voiced hope of a deal before Wednesday, Lapid cautioned: "There are still plenty of obstacles in the way of the formation of the new government."Israelis were divided about everything except the folly of writing Netanyahu off."An event took place yesterday whose importance cannot be overstated. A real possibility was created ... an alternative government in every sense of the word," wrote Sima Kadmon in the best-selling Israeli newspaper Yedioth Ahronoth.Not over yetBut she added: "It’s not over yet. Long days loom in which Netanyahu will do absolutely everything to shift the momentum."Netanyahu faces other troubles, chiefly a corruption trial for bribery, fraud and breach of trust. He denies all charges.The veteran Likud Party leader is a survivor: he was first elected prime minister in 1996 and he returned to power in 2009, holding the top office for more than a decade.Israel Hayom, a pro-Netanyahu daily, described Bennett and Gideon Saar, another rightist in talks with Lapid, as being "in service of the left". Netanyahu has kept the door open to them, maintaining he is still capable of forming the next government.If Bennett and Lapid miss Wednesday's deadline, parliament can choose a candidate to for a new coalition. Should that fail, the country goes to a fifth election.However, a source briefed on the Bennett-Lapid power-sharing talks, which also include liberal and centre-left parties, said there had been "significant progress" toward a final deal, adding: "There's a lot more that unites than separates."Bennett, a former defence minister, and Lapid, a former finance minister, both want to invest in education and health, and to head off economic malaise from the Covid-19 pandemic.However the new coalition will likely mean a stalemate on the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, with marked policy differences between the coalition partners.Bennett has favoured Israel annexing parts of the occupied West Bank, while his prospective left-leaning allies may argue for ceding territory to the Palestinians.The source briefed on the talks indicated that Bennett and Lapid had agreed to sidestep the issue: "There's not going to be annexation, there's not going to be final-status withdrawals.""Final status" is a diplomatic term for an Israeli-Palestinian peace deal, negotiations on which stalled in 2014.Israel's financial markets were mostly unchanged on Monday with the shekel holding steady at 3.25 per dollar.Once a coalition is formed, investors will expect passage of a 2021 state budget. Because of the two-year political stalemate, Israel is using a pro-rated version of the 2019 budget, which was approved in mid-2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/in-israel-pm-netanyahu-s-rivals-try-to-seal-the-deal-on-coalition-to-unseat-him-101622473394870.html
31-05-2021||World||Covid-19: Not enough data to decide if travel curbs should be lifted, says Singapore||Singapore wants to resume regular international travel, but there is not enough data to decide whether lifting travel restrictions is possible for now, Health Minister Ong Ye Kung said on Monday.If Singapore residents are vaccinated and the country is safe, "we hope Singaporeans can gain the freedom to travel," the Channel News Asia quoted Ong as saying.This could mean travelling for business reasons or visiting relatives who are living overseas without having to serve a 21-day stay-home notice, he said.Ong was responding to a question at a COVID-19 Multi-Ministry Task Force press conference on whether Singapore would wait for neighbouring countries to achieve higher vaccination levels before lifting travel restrictions."Of course, we hope to resume that normalcy, but I think the truth is we don't have enough data to... decide whether lifting all those restrictions is possible as of now," Ong said.Singapore is "heading in the right direction," said the health minister. Earlier in the day, Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong addressed the nation on the status of COVID-19 and measures being taken to manage the disease spread."If we can get ourselves substantially vaccinated, protected, certainly travel restrictions will have to be reviewed with a view to restore our ability to travel and become a business hub," he said.Finance Minister Lawrence Wong, who co-chairs the multi-ministry task force, said the government has "always taken a risk-based approach" towards travel restrictions."If you look at our border measures, we already differentiate countries by risk and based on the infection levels in these countries. So, if a country is safe, we already allow Singaporeans to go there and come back without any quarantine in Singapore," he added."And we even allow travellers from these places to come to Singapore without quarantine."On the other hand, if a country is not so safe, there are high incidence rates that are prevalent in these places, then we have tighter border control measures where travellers coming in will have to serve a quarantine in a dedicated facility," he said.Singapore will continue with this approach "in the coming months", said Wong.“If more countries become safe, infection rates come down, vaccination rates are high, then potentially, we will be able to open up more with these places," he added.“On the other hand, if there are places where the incidence rates will remain high, and there are concerns (that) they are high-risk areas, then the border measures will remain and the quarantine measures will remain," the minister said.If all goes to plan, there may be a chance for some easing of measures after June 13, said Wong. Singapore has been on 'Heightened Alert' for the last three weeks and will have to continue till June 13.These restrictions include reducing the size of group gatherings from five people (under Phase III) to two people and banning dining-in at food and beverage outlets. "We will have to do this gradually and in a controlled manner. So, there is some chance of relaxation but in a controlled and calibrated manner," said Wong."On the other hand, if we monitor over time and ... we see new risks emerging, new clusters emerging, more unlinked cases that we are not able to track down and pin down, then it may suggest that this is continuing a little bit more than (what) we are comfortable with and therefore we may have to take additional restrictions or precautions and safeguards based on the data."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid19-not-enough-data-to-decide-if-travel-curbs-should-be-lifted-says-singapore-101622470125821.html
31-05-2021||World||Iron Dome: Artwork of Israeli superhero receives major internet backlash||A new Israeli superhero, named Iron Dome and fashioned out of the blue and white and the star of David in the Israeli flag, has received massive backlash on the internet after being introduced by a pro-Israeli group called ‘StandWithUs.’“Introducing, a new Israeli superhero: Iron Dome, the protector/defender of Israel. We love it! #irondome10,” the group tweeted from their verified account in the micro-blogging site Twitter on May 30 (Sunday). The tweet from the group also included a picture of the superhero with a smirking face.🇮🇱🇮🇱🇮🇱 Introducing, a new Israeli superhero: Iron Dome, the protector/defender of Israel. We love it! #irondome10 🇮🇱🇮🇱🇮🇱Credit: Sarai Givaty/https://t.co/wNfmDkklxo pic.twitter.com/1lrQljZ53kWho is the new superhero?StandWithUs credited the image to Sarai Givaty Luboschits, an Israeli artist, singer, song-writer and model. In an Instagram post, earlier in the week, Givaty had briefed the event that led to the creation of the cartoon of Iron Dome. She said that she used the idea of a superhero to explain to her children about the conflict between Israel and Hamas.While Iron Dome, Israel’s multi-tiered missile defense system, was active in intercepting the rockets fired by the Hamas, she told her children that the loud noises actually came from the superhero smashing the missiles. She also said that the artwork was made by two illustrators and artists named Yehuda Devir and Maya Devir after she explained the story to them. She also hoped that Iron Dome would be a symbol of strength, victory and heroism for the children of Israel, in her Instagram post in Hebrew.Iron Dome now has a private account in Instagram with more than 3,000 followers and 15 posts under the name irondome10.Internet backlashWhen StandWithUs tweeted Givaty’s Instagram post, it received massive backlash from the users of the site, many of whom called it propaganda material. Amidst the ongoing tensions between Israel and Hamas, the cartoon attracted major flak from users who called out Israel for their military action in Palestine.Some users also commented that the artwork is inappropriate and said that the character looks more villainous than heroic.StandWithUs has more than 120,000 followers on Twitter that includes the likes of former US President Barack Obama, Human Rights Watch and Israel in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/iron-dome-artwork-of-israeli-superhero-receives-major-internet-backlash-101622469999402.html
31-05-2021||World||Chinese soldier killed at Galwan Valley up for top medal||A Chinese soldier killed fighting Indian troops at Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh on June 16 last year has been nominated for a once-in-a-century medal during the 100th anniversary of the Communist Party of China (CPC) on July 1.Chen Hongjun, 30, the commander of a motorised infantry battalion under a People Liberation Army (PLA) border defence regiment was among the four Chinese troops killed at Galwan Valley.The other three were Chen Xiangrong, Xiao Siyuan and Wang Zhuoran, according to the details released by the Chinese government in February this year, several months after the clash.On Monday, Chinese state media reported that Chen was among the 29 nominated for the July 1 medal.The list includes Chen, “…a border defence hero who held his post in the plateau for 10 years and died safeguarding China’s territorial integrity against Indian provocation in the Galwan Valley in June 2020,”Global Times said quoting the citation.India has consistently denied China’s allegation of provoking friction along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh, saying the Chinese troops were the first to trespass across the disputed boundary, triggering the face-off and deaths of border troops on both sides including that of 20 Indian soldiers.Chen’s citation said he is among the CPC members “who have made outstanding contributions and created valuable spiritual wealth, as the CPC marks its 100th founding anniversary this year”.A total of 29 candidates for the award have been nominated. The list will be put on display and public opinions solicited until June 4 before the final decision is made, the report said. “The list covered candidates from several fields, including war heroes, scientists, community workers, artists, diplomats, pioneers in national unity, educators and police.”Among those nominated is Wang Shumao, called the “guardian of the South China Sea”, for participating in the construction on the disputed Nansha Islands.As a member of China’s parliament, the National People’s Congress, Wang has advocated that China should send more militia missions to “…safeguard territorial sovereignty and the marine rights and interests in the South China Sea (SCS)”.Beijing claims almost the entire SCS and is locked in dispute with several countries over the ownership of islands in the region.The July 1 Medal, established by the CPC Central Committee earlier this year, is the highest honour in the party, said Fu Xingguo, deputy head of the CPC Central Committee’s Organisation Department, in March.This year, the CPC Central Committee will hold a grand gathering to award the medal ahead of July 1, the birthday of the CPC, Fu said.President Xi Jinping will present the July 1 medal as part of the celebrations to mark CPC’s 100th year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/chinese-soldier-killed-at-galwan-valley-up-for-top-medal-101622469949408.html
31-05-2021||World||Explained: What was the 1921 Tulsa massacre and what it destroyed||On May 31, 1921, a race riot erupted in Tulsa, Oklahoma, as white mobs began looting and levelling the affluent Black district of Greenwood over reports a Black man had assaulted a white woman in an elevator. Hundreds are believed to have died in the riots.A hundred years later, Tulsans commemorated the 100th anniversary of a two-day assault Greenwood on Monday. They called attention to an era of deadly mob assaults on Black communities that official history long suppressed.The thriving Greenwood community - dubbed Black Wall Street because of the number of Black-owned businesses - was decimated in the two-day attack by a white mob.Among other Black-owned properties which were levelled in the violence include grocery stores, soda fountains, cafes, barbershops, a movie theater, music venues, cigar and billiard parlors, tailors and dry cleaners.Here is a look at what all was destroyed in the 1921 incident:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/explained-what-was-the-1921-tulsa-massacre-and-what-it-destroyed-101622469088663.html
31-05-2021||World||Czech PM Babis, country's fourth-richest man, faces possible fraud charge||Czech police recommended charging Prime Minister Andrej Babis, the country’s fourth-richest man, with fraud after completing an investigation into whether he misused European Union funds.The probe is one in a string of legal challenges that have dogged Babis since he won the 2017 elections with promises to root out corruption, keep immigrants out of the country and build more roads. He’s also been clashing with the EU’s executive arm after its auditors found him in conflict of interest over ties to his chemical, agriculture and media empire.Babis told the CTK newswire on Monday that the fraud cause is a fabrication and that “nothing illegal has ever happened.” As he tries to halt a slide in popularity before general elections in October, he has repeatedly denounced the investigation at home and the conflict of interest audit as attacks staged by his rivals to force him out of politics.Police completed a probe into the fraud case and handed a file containing more than 34,000 pages of evidence to the state prosecutors’ office, Ales Cimbala, a spokesman for the office, said in a statement on Monday. The prosecutor on the case, which focuses on whether one of Babis’s companies illegally obtained an EU subsidy of about $2.4 million more than a decade ago, will now study the file and decide whether to bring charges.This is the second time police have recommended charging Babis after a first instance in 2019. The prosecutor then decided against taking Babis to court, but the decision was overturned and the case was returned to police for further investigation.The country’s chief prosecutor Pavel Zeman, who reopened the probe into Babis two years ago, resigned this month and said he could no longer bear dealing with pressure from Justice Minister Marie Benesova, who has faced public protests and calls for her dismissal.Top Czech Prosecutor Quits, Citing Attacks From Justice MinisterThe prosecutors office has an internal two-month deadline to decide on whether to press charges, although that can be extended. A spokesman for Babis’s ANO party didn’t answer the phone when contacted for comments.Babis, whose wealth amounts to about $3.6 billion, according to Forbes, had for years enjoyed strong popularity among voters despite his legal tussles. But a stumbling approach to a resurgence in the coronavirus earlier this year, which led to the world’s second-highest death toll per capita, has since erased his wide lead in opinion polls.The minority government may face an opposition-led no-confidence motion as soon as June, but President Milos Zeman, Babis’s ally, has pledged to keep him in power until the October election. Zeman has also promised to pardon Babis if prosecutors charge him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/czech-pm-babis-country-s-fourth-richest-man-faces-possible-fraud-charge-101622466822090.html
31-05-2021||World||Indian-origin scientist warns UK in early stages of Covid-19 third wave, urges PM Johnson to delay June 21 reopening||An eminent Indian-origin scientist advising the British government has warned that there are signs that the UK is in the early stages of a third wave of coronavirus infections and urged Prime Minister Boris Johnson to delay the planned June 21 reopening of the country by a few weeks, according to a media report on Monday.Professor Ravi Gupta of the University of Cambridge, who is a member of the government’s New and Emerging Respiratory Virus Threats Advisory Group (Nervtag), said although new cases were "relatively low" the B.1.617 variant of the Covid-19 had fuelled "exponential growth", the BBC reported.On Sunday, the UK reported more than 3,000 new Covid infections for a fifth day in a row. Prior to this, the UK had not surpassed that number since April 12.Gupta also called on Prime Minister Johnson to delay the planned June 21 reopening of the country by “a few weeks”.The UK's overall Covid-19 caseload and death toll currently stood at 4,499,939 and 128,043, respectively.Prof Gupta said the UK was already in a third wave of infections and at least three-quarters of cases were the new variant first discovered in India."Of course the numbers of cases are relatively low at the moment - all waves start with low numbers of cases that grumble in the background and then become explosive, so the key here is that what we are seeing here is the signs of an early wave," he said.However, he said the number of people who have been vaccinated in the UK meant this wave would probably take longer to emerge than previous ones."There may be a false sense of security for some time, and that's our concern."More than 38.8 million people, or more than 70 per cent of adults in Britain, have been given the first jab of the coronavirus vaccine, according to the latest official figures.Gupta also said ending restrictions on June 21 should be delayed "by a few weeks whilst we gather more intelligence"."If you look at the costs and benefits of getting it wrong, I think it is heavily in favour of delay, so I think that's the key thing," he added.Prof Adam Finn, another leading scientific adviser to the government, also urged caution over the June 21 date for easing restrictions.Environment Secretary George Eustice said the government could not rule out a delay to the planned lockdown easing.Eustice told the BBC the government had to take things "one step at a time"."We can't rule anything out. We know this has been a difficult pandemic, a dynamic situation. We have to make that judgment a couple of weeks before."It will only be by then that we will see the impact of the latest easement we made on May 17."A final decision on whether restrictions will be lifted in England will be reached on June 14.Prof Tim Gowers, who is with the Mathematics department of Cambridge University, last week said that the UK's fight against coronavirus could turn bad "very, very quickly" unless the government acts cautiously on easing lockdown further.The B.1.617 strain could cause big problems if not taken care of properly, Gowers said.The B.1.617 variant cases doubled in a week in England to almost 7,000, prompting concerns that the government's lockdown roadmap will be derailed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/indianorigin-scientists-warns-uk-in-early-stages-of-third-wave-of-covid-19-urges-pm-johnson-to-delay-june-21-reopening-by-few-weeks-101622466508912.html
31-05-2021||World||EU executive urges reopening in summer to tourists immunised against Covid-19||The European Commission proposed on Monday that vaccinated people should be exempt from testing or quarantines when travelling from one EU country to another, and urged a gradual easing of travel measures as Covid-19 inoculations accelerate.The EU reached a deal earlier this month on Covid-19 certificates that will show, via a QR code, whether a person is vaccinated, immune based on recovery from infection or has had a recent negative test. The scheme should be ready by July 1.The European Union executive, which is seeking to end a current patchwork of travel measures across the bloc, said on Monday that testing or quarantines should not apply to people who have been fully vaccinated 14 days prior to travel.About half of EU adults have received a first vaccine dose.People who have recovered from a Covid-19 infection should be exempt from restrictions for 180 days. The Commission also proposed that more reliable, but more expensive PCR tests should be valid for 72 hours and rapid antigen tests for 48 hours.Children, who are not yet in line for vaccinations, should not have to undergo a quarantine if travelling with parents who are exempt. Those aged six and older can be subject to tests.The Commission has also included an "emergency brake" to re-impose measures for travellers from areas where there is a surge of infections or many cases of a particular virus variant.Travel from "dark red" areas, with more than 150 Covid-19 cases per 100,000 people over 14 days, would be "strongly discouraged", while for green areas, with fewer than 25 cases, no restrictions would apply, the Commission proposal said.Only Malta is currently green.The proposal, which will is being put to EU member states, is similar to that already agreed for travel from outside the bloc for vaccinated travellers and those coming from "safe" countries, although tests can still apply.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/eu-executive-urges-reopening-in-summer-to-tourists-immunised-against-covid19-101622465880002.html
31-05-2021||World||Chances of patent waiver for Covid-19 vaccines seen as remote as WTO talks resume||A deal on an intellectual property waiver for Covid-19 vaccines at the World Trade Organisation (WTO) may be further off than ever despite Washington's backing, due to expected scepticism about a new draft, sources close to the talks told Reuters.Negotiations will reopen at the WTO on Monday and will focus on a highly anticipated revised draft submitted by India, South Africa and dozens of other proponents last week.Following a surprise US shift earlier this month to support a waiver, a move which heaped pressure on remaining opponents like the European Union and Switzerland that are home to numerous drugmakers, many people were expecting to be encouraged to follow suit.But three sources close to the talks say that is likely to have the opposite effect."There is an ocean between this waiver proposal and what was suggested by the US," said a source involved in the talks who declined to be named. "There's definitely no quick resolution for this."The waiver's main backers are due to present the new draft in Monday's private WTO meeting, where other key players such as the United States and the European Union are set to give their first official feedback on its contents.The meeting is critical because it will determine if the talks, ongoing since October, will advance to "text-based negotiations" as sought by director-general Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala.For an Explainer on the talks so far, see:Two key aspects of the waiver draft that may discourage reluctant countries are its expansive scope and the duration it would be in effect.While US Trade Representative Katherine Tai has previously said she is only focused on increasing vaccine access and equity, the scope of the new draft is much broader and includes not only vaccines but also diagnostics, therapeutics and medical devices among others."When you have a big bomb like the US saying we will support the waiver, people were expecting the revised proposal would narrow the scope," said a Geneva-based trade source.The new draft text also sets a time span for the temporary waiver of "at least three years" and gives the WTO's top-decision making body scope to determine its final termination date.But because of the need for the WTO's 164 members to agree by consensus, any one country could block a lifting of the waiver, creating what one delegate called a "forever waiver"."If the proponents insist on it (the duration), there will almost certainly be no consensus agreement on the waiver," said Peter Ungphakorn, a former WTO staff member who now writes blogs on trade.An EU diplomat told Reuters that the revised text "will likely call the US bluff". The European Union is set to present an alternative plan for boosting production and availability of Covid-19 vaccines to the WTO in early June.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/chances-of-patent-waiver-for-covid-19-vaccines-seen-as-remote-as-wto-talks-resume-101622461007520.html
31-05-2021||World||European Union executive urges travel reopening ahead of summer||The European Commission proposed on Monday that all EU countries gradually ease travel measures over the summer as the number of Covid-19 vaccinations continues to grow and the severity of the pandemic in the bloc diminishes.The European Union executive, which is seeking to harmonise travel measures across the bloc, said that - according to its recommendation - fully vaccinated people should be exempt from testing or quarantines when travelling from one EU country to another.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/european-union-executive-urges-travel-reopening-ahead-of-summer-101622461082422.html
31-05-2021||World||Travel ban, restrictions in China's Guangzhou after mini Covid outbreak||With the reporting of 20 new local Covid-19 cases in China's Guangdong on Sunday, authorities have locked down areas of the capital city of the southern Chinese province due to a mini-outbreak.Restrictions were announced barring the travellers from leaving Guangdong as local authorities stepped up efforts to contain the spread of the infection, South China Morning Post (SCMP) reported.Out of the 20 local cases in Guangdong, 16 were classified as patients with asymptomatic conditions, according to the local health authorities.In the provincial capital Guangzhou, 18 cases have been reported, with 14 of those asymptomatic. Two asymptomatic cases were reported in the neighbouring city of Foshan,According to the SCMP, the Guangdong outbreak has been traced to a 75-year-old woman who had dined with friends at a restaurant in the Liwan district of Guangzhou.Local media has described the rate of spread as "alarming" as the Guangzhou city government is expanding its scope to launch viral screening to cover residents in several key districts and areas of concern.The total number of confirmed Covid-19 cases in China to date stands at 91,099 with 4,636 deaths, according to the latest figures from the National Health Commission.On May 30, China reported 27 new cases of confirmed infections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/travel-ban-restrictions-in-china-s-guangzhou-after-mini-covid-outbreak-101622459837948.html
31-05-2021||World||Democrats walk, stop Texas GOP's sweeping voting restrictions||Texas Democrats pulled off a dramatic, last-ditch walkout in the state House of Representatives on Sunday night to block passage of one of the most restrictive voting bills in the US, leaving Republicans with no choice but to abandon a midnight deadline and declare the legislative session essentially over.The revolt is one of Democrats' biggest protests to date against GOP efforts nationwide to impose stricter election laws, and they used the spotlight to urge President Joe Biden to act on voting rights.But the victory may be fleeting: Republican Gov. Greg Abbott, who had declared new voting laws a priority in Texas, quickly announced that he would order a special session to finish the job. He called the failure of the bill “deeply disappointing” but did not say when he would drag lawmakers back to work.“We’ve said for so many years that we want more people to participate in our democracy. And it just seems that’s not the case,” Democratic state Rep. Carl Sherman said.One by one, Democrats left the House chamber until there was no longer the 100-member quorum needed to pass Senate Bill 7, which would have reduced polling hours, empowered poll watchers and scaled back ways to vote in Texas, which already has some of the nation’s strictest voting laws.They gathered later outside a Black church, driving home their anger over a last-minute change to the Texas bill that would have prohibited Sunday voting before 1 p.m., when many Black worshippers go to the polls. Democrats said they did not go into the House vote intending to break quorum, but instead became fed-up after Republicans repeatedly refused to take their questions while racing to pass the bill.It was an stunning turnabout from just 24 hours earlier, when the bill seemed all but guaranteed to reach Abbott's desk. The Texas Senate had signed off before sunrise earlier Sunday after Republicans, who hold an 18-13 majority in the chamber, used a bare-knuckle procedural move to suspend the rules and take up the measure in the middle of the night.But as the day wore on in the House, the GOP's chances wobbled. State Rep. Chris Turner, the Democratic House leader, said he sent a text message to members of his caucus at 10:35 p.m. telling them to leave the chamber. But even by that point, the exodus had already been well underway.“We knew today, with the eyes of the nation watching actions in Austin, that we needed to send a message, and that message is very, very clear: Mr. President, we need a national response to federal voting rights,” Democratic state Rep. Trey Martinez Fischer said.Republicans showed restraint in criticizing Democrats for the move.“I am disappointed that some members decided to break quorum,” said Republican state Rep. Briscoe Cain, who carried the bill in the House. “We all know what that meant. I understand why they were doing it, but we all took an oath to Texans that we would be here to do our jobs.”Texas is the last big battleground in Republicans’ campaign to tighten voting laws, driven by former President Donald Trump’s false claims that the 2020 election was stolen from him. Georgia and Florida have also passed new voting restrictions, and Biden on Saturday had unfavorably compared Texas’ bill to election changes in those states as “an assault on democracy.”Under revisions during closed-door negotiations, Republicans added language to the 67-page measure that could have made it easier for a judge to overturn an election. The bill would have also eliminated drive-thru voting and 24-hour polling centers, both of which Harris County, the state’s largest Democratic stronghold, introduced last year.Major corporations joined the backlash, including Texas-based American Airlines and Dell, warning that the efforts could harm democracy and the economic climate. But Republicans shrugged off their objections, and in some cases, ripped business leaders for speaking out. By the time the Texas bill was poised to pass over the Memorial Day weekend, the opposition from businesses had grown faint.Since Trump’s defeat, at least 14 states have enacted more restrictive voting laws, according to the New York-based Brennan Center for Justice. It has also counted nearly 400 bills filed this year nationwide that would restrict voting.It was not the first time Texas Democrats — who have been out of power in the state Capitol for decades — have been able to block contentious legislation despite being outnumbered.They twice broke quorum in 2003 to stop Republican efforts to redraw voting maps, at one point leaving the state for Oklahoma. A decade later, former state Sen. Wendy Davis ran out the clock on a sweeping anti-abortion bill with a filibuster that lasted more than 11 hours, propelling her to a failed run for governor.But in each instance, Republicans ultimately prevailed.“We may have won the war tonight but the battle is not over,” Democratic state Rep. Nicole Collier said. “We will continue to fight and speak out against those measures that attempt to silence our voices.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/democrats-walk-stop-texas-gop-s-sweeping-voting-restrictions-101622459156323.html
31-05-2021||World||'We are one': After 100 years remembering, last survivors mark race massacre in Tulsa||Lessie Benningfield Randle, 106, can still remember a house engulfed in flames and the bodies stacked in truckbeds, one hundred years later."I was quite a little kid but I remember running and the soldiers were coming in," Randle said in an interview with Reuters as her hometown of Tulsa prepared to mark one of the darkest chapters in its history.Monday is the centenary of a massacre targeting Tulsa's prosperous African-American community in the district of Greenwood that bore the nickname "Black Wall Street."After a Black man was accused of assaulting a white woman, an allegation that was never proven, white rioters gunned down Blacks, looted homes and set fire to buildings block by block. More than 1,000 buildings were destroyed.An estimated 300 people were killed, thousands were left homeless and an entire community that had been seen as a symbol of what Black Americans could achieve was devastated."This was the Mecca. Tulsa's considerably what Atlanta is today," said Duke Durant, 30, a comedian, actor and Tulsa native, referring to one of the US cities noted for its large, thriving Black community.Events related to the massacre commemoration began ahead of the anniversary.Friday's Black Wall Street Legacy Festival included a parade led by Randle and two other centenarian survivors, Viola Fletcher and Hughes Van Ellis. The three were joined by community organizations and about 450 students from George Washington Carver Middle School, where the parade began.At the parade's start, members of the African Ancestral Society surrounded a horse-drawn carriage holding the three survivors and sang blessings, before marchers headed past tidy homes toward the heart of Greenwood."We are one," Van Ellis, 100, said from inside the carriage.The commemoration is slated to include a visit by President Joe Biden on Tuesday and the unveiling of the $20 million Greenwood Rising museum.The museum, which is devoted to telling the story of Greenwood, will not be completed in time for the centennial but there will be a "limited preview," a Tulsa commission formed to commemorate the anniversary said on its website.An event scheduled for Monday that was to feature a performance by award-winning musician John Legend and a speech by politician and activist Stacey Abrams was canceled following a dispute with lawyers for the three survivors, organizers said.Organizers said they hoped to reschedule. A candlelight vigil is among the commemoration events still to take place Monday.This year's attention is a departure from the past. For decades, newspapers rarely mentioned the events of May 31 and June 1, 1921. The state's historians largely ignored the massacre and children did not learn about it in school, according to a 2001 report written by a commission created by the state legislature.Tulsans attribute the silence to a number of factors. Black Tulsans were traumatized, feared it could happen again and did not want to pass on the information to their children, while white Tulsans would not have wanted to believe respected members of their community participated, according to Phil Armstrong, the project director of the centennial commission, and Michelle Place, executive director of the Tulsa Historical Society and Museum.Place said the 2001 report was written before it was too late."Many of those survivors of the race massacre were dying or had died so it was an effort to tell their stories and to remember that part of our history and not let it go to the grave, if you will," Place said.The history is also recorded in court records. Randle described the bodies and burning house she saw in a deposition in a lawsuit filed in February by survivors and descendants seeking justice for victims. Calls for reparations have long gone unanswered.Greg Robinson, 31, a community activist and 2020 mayoral candidate, said he was pleased with the increased attention on Tulsa during the anniversary, but added that more work needed to be done to repair the damage."I'm glad to see people from across the country coming to understand the story of Greenwood," he said. "But make no mistake about it, we have a very clear message that until justice is done, we have work to do."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/after-100-years-remembering-last-survivors-mark-race-massacre-in-tulsa-101622458985992.html
31-05-2021||World||Denmark helped US spy on European politicians, claims report; Snowden says Biden was 'deeply involved'||The National Security Agency (NSA) of the United States used a partnership with Denmark's foreign intelligence unit to spy on senior officials of many countries, including German Chancellor Angela Merkel, Danish state broadcaster DR said.The report cited an investigation between 2012 and 2014, and quoted inputs from nine people aware of the development.After the report surfaced, former NSA employee Edward Snowden posted a cryptic tweet in Danish language. "If only there had been some reason to investigate many years ago. Oh why didn't anyone warn us?" he said in the tweet.Snowden also said that US President Joe Biden is well-prepared to answer for this. "Biden is well-prepared to answer for this when he soon visits Europe since, of course, he was deeply involved in this scandal the first time around. There should be an explicit requirement for full public disclosure not only from Denmark, but their senior partner as well," the whistleblower said in a subsequent tweet.Biden is well-prepared to answer for this when he soon visits Europe since, of course, he was deeply involved in this scandal the first time around.There should be an explicit requirement for full public disclosure not only from Denmark, but their senior partner as well. https://t.co/TJL7gr6dy8The internal investigation in the Danish Defence Intelligence Service was launched in 2014 following concerns about former Snowden's leaks the previous year revealing how the NSA works, according to DR.Snowden fled the United States after leaking secret NSA files in 2013 and was given asylum in Russia.Denmark, a close ally of the United States, hosts several key landing stations for sub-sea internet cables to and from Sweden, Norway, Germany, Holland and Britain.Through targeted retrievals and the use of NSA-developed analysis software known as Xkeyscore, NSA intercepted both calls, texts and chat messages to and from telephones of officials in the neighbouring countries, according to DR report.Danish Defence Minister Trine Bramsen declined to comment on "speculation" about intelligence matters in the media."I can more generally say that this government has the same attitude as the former Prime Minister expressed in 2013 and 2014 - systematic wiretapping of close allies is unacceptable," Bramsen told Reuters in a statement.Denmark said last year it would initiate an investigation into the case based on information from a whistleblower report. That investigation is expected to be concluded later this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/denmark-helped-us-spy-on-european-politicians-claims-report-101622457609460.html
31-05-2021||World||Hong Kong to ease Covid-19 quarantine norms for vaccinated business executives||Hong Kong is allowing vaccinated directors and senior executives of major listed companies to travel globally more easily, a significant relaxation of its onerous border curbs that’s drawing backlash from the wider population for being elitist.Vaccinated senior executives from about 500 companies included in indexes like the Hang Seng and Hang Seng China Enterprises can seek permission to travel in and out of the city without needing to follow the current quarantine requirement, Hong Kong’s Financial Services and the Treasury Bureau said in a statement Monday.The clarification of a wider policy of exemption for vaccinated executives comes in the wake of a Friday announcement that some vaccinated senior bankers can skip quarantine. However, the move is likely to deepen public ire over the special treatment, as Hong Kong’s traveler quarantine requirements are some of the strictest in the world and require people to pay for hotel room stays -- the supply of which is rapidly drying up for the summer months.The current rules stipulate that everyone arriving in Hong Kong from outside China must isolate in a hotel for up to 21 days. Pressure is building on the government to drastically relax quarantine and other social restrictions for vaccinated people as incentives to re-open borders and to boost Hong Kong’s low vaccination rate.Senior Bankers Can Now Skip Hong Kong’s Three-Week Quarantine“It’s a step in the right direction. Is that enough? We believe it is by far not enough,” said Frederick Gollob, chairman of the European Chamber of Commerce in Hong Kong. “With the combination of vaccination and ongoing testing, the Hong Kong government should further, on a broader scale, reduce the quarantine requirement on the way to reopening the city.”‘Back to Normal’The latest quarantine exemption is available to other firms from financial industries like banking, mobile payments, insurance, securities and futures intermediaries. Companies are allowed a limited quota of exemptions and the government will review applications based on criteria like where the executive is traveling from. The executives must undergo testing and are required to stick to pre-approved itineraries.An earlier version of the quarantine exemption policy has existed since last year for executives coming from mainland China. Singapore, Asia’s other major financial hub, does not grant exemptions from travel quarantine for business executives.Banks lauded the new announcement.“We welcome the new measure providing more convenience to vaccinated senior executives when traveling to Hong Kong. This helps encourage resumption of necessary business travel and brings business activities gradually back to normal, which is particularly important to Hong Kong as an international financial center,” said a Standard Chartered Plc spokeswoman in a statement.HSBC Holdings Plc said in a statement, “While the pandemic has showed how much could be accomplished virtually, a measured approach to facilitate business travels to and from Hong Kong could help stimulate more economic activities across a range of sectors.Even within the business community however, some think that the exemptions are not being rolled out widely enough. The American Chamber of Commerce, for example, said that the exemption should be “extended across sectors.”“All businesses have suffered, and all are keen to get safely back on the road again,” said the chamber’s president Tara Joseph in a statement.However, the government has not signaled that it plans to significantly relax social-distancing rules for vaccinated people, such as mandatory outdoor masking, citing the low vaccination uptake. Some medical experts also continue to recommend social restriction remain in place in order to prevent another wave of Covid-19, particularly as the vaccination rate is low, though local infection numbers have hovered at or near zero for weeks.Public AngerSome critics argue, however, that it’s precisely the lack of privileges for vaccinated people that is keeping the inoculation rate depressed -- just 13.4% of Hong Kong’s population of 7.5 million has been fully inoculated, according to Bloomberg’s Covid-19 Vaccine Tracker, far behind other finance centers like London and Singapore.Chief Executive Carrie Lam separately announced on the same day a new campaign to boost the city’s slow inoculation rate by September, with measures such as paid leave for vaccinated civil servants and possible additional restrictions for unvaccinated citizens. The government said it aims to announce further relaxations of rules for vaccinated people by June 10.Now that the door has been open for quarantine exemption for some vaccinated people, the policy should be expanded to all fully inoculated people, said Ben Cowling, Professor at the School of Public Health at the University of Hong Kong.Exemption is “an evidence-based measure given that vaccinated people are substantially less likely to be infected. Such a measure could also encourage greater vaccination uptake,” he said.The government has instead been leaning on businesses and institutions to encourage injections.Hong Kong Turns to Businesses to Fix Foundering Vaccine PushStill, the special treatment meted out to a small elite of executives is likely to further stoke public anger, already at high levels following more than a year of strict social restrictions and quarantine policies that have seen thousands forced from their homes to isolate in government-run camps. The continuing quarantine policies for travelers also means that as vaccinated people in the U.S. and European countries plan their summer travel, almost no one will be able to travel into Hong Kong without shouldering the prohibitive time and cost of quarantine.Ally, a Hong Kong citizen who currently lives in Canada, said she’s extremely upset that “as long as you are rich and powerful” you can skip the requirements that most people must observe. Ally, who asked that only her English name be used, said she has been unable to return to Hong Kong after her father died last year. A single mother, she can’t afford the cost of a 21-day quarantine, which would require her to be away from work without pay.“You can imagine how infuriating it is that someone else is exempt because of money and I have lost my only remaining parent,” she said.The issue isn’t just the time and cost of quarantine.As the length of hotel isolation for those traveling from some countries, including the U.S., has dropped to two weeks for vaccinated people, demand for rooms has skyrocketed. Numerous accommodations, especially those at lower price points, are fully booked through the end of the current quarantine period, which runs until June 19.The Food and Health Bureau said Monday that the supply of rooms would be increased from the current 8,300 to 10,000. Some hotels will open up more rooms for booking, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/hong-kong-to-ease-covid-19-norms-quarantine-for-vaccinated-business-executives-101622452436771.html
31-05-2021||World||South Korea sees first case of blood clot linked to AstraZeneca's Covid vaccine||South Korea on Monday reported its first case of rare blood clotting linked to AstraZeneca's coronavirus vaccine.The patient is a man in his 30s who got the shot on April 27 because of his job at a medical facility, Korea Disease Control and Prevention Agency (KDCA) director Jeong Eun-kyeong told a briefing.He felt a headache on May 9 and sought medical treatment before being hospitalized on May 12 as it continued and he suffered muscle cramps, Jeong said."His condition has improved since then and we understand there is no big problem though he still needs monitoring," she said.Jeong said the symptoms are curable if detected early and treated properly.Around 3.27 million people in South Korea have received at least one dose of the AstraZeneca vaccine so far.Reports from around the world have involved extremely rare clotting, mainly a type of blood clot called cerebral venous sinus thrombosis (CVST), seen in combination with low blood platelet levels, called thrombocytopenia.Medical regulators in the United States and Europe have said there appears to be a link between AstraZeneca's vaccine, as well as one made by Johnson & Johnson, but that the shots are safe and that the benefits outweigh the risks.AstraZeneca has said it is working to understand individual cases and "possible mechanisms that could explain these extremely rare events", while J&J has said that no clear causal relationship has been established between the vaccine and the clots.South Korea limited use of the AstraZeneca vaccine to people over 30 years old after the reports of blood clots. The KDCA reported 430 new coronavirus cases as of Sunday, for a total of 140,340 cases with 1,959 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/south-korea-sees-first-case-of-blood-clot-linked-to-astrazeneca-s-covid-vaccine-101622451354245.html
31-05-2021||World||Pakistani man drowns in Jhelum river while making TikTok video||A 25-year-old man drowned in Pakistan's Jhelum River on Sunday while making a TikTok video, Dawn reported.The deceased, identified as Sheikh Ali, drowned when he jumped into the Jhelum River along with his friend, while another friend of theirs was recording the video. Ali's friend knew how to swim and was able to make his way out of the river.Divers of Rescue 1122 and Assistant Commissioner (PD Khan) Mian Murad Nekokara reached the spot and started an operation to retrieve the body of the man.On May 20, a 19-year-old popular Pakistani TikToker was killed as his pistol went off accidentally while filming a video in Kabal tehsil on Wednesday. Kabal police confirmed that the incident occurred during the filming of a TikTok video, reported Dawn."According to our initial report, TikTok star Hamidullah, a resident of Maaband Shah Dherai, was filming a video showing a suicide scene for sharing with his followers on his account when the pistol went off," said DSP Kabal Hazrat Badshah.According to eyewitness and friends of the deceased, "he planned to film a suicide video and arranged a pistol."One of the eyewitnesses confirmed that when he put the pistol on his temple it went off accidentally. His friends said Hamid had also prepared tragic background music for the video.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pakistani-man-drowns-in-jhelum-river-while-making-tiktok-video-101622451280024.html
31-05-2021||World||Covid-19: Japan to vaccinate all citizens below 65 years, says health minister||The Covid-19 vaccination rollout for people under the age of 65 in Japan will be carried out people with preexisting conditions and those working at care facilities to help speed up the process, the health minister said.The ministry had already instructed municipalities to begin sending vaccination vouchers to all those eligible under 65 from the middle of June. But now, even those without underlying medical conditions will be able to get their jab upon receiving the voucher next month."if we wait until everyone (with underlying conditions) has been vaccinated, we don't know when it will be completed," health, labour and welfare minister Norihisa Tamura said on a program aired by public broadcaster NHK World.Those who qualify to receive priority vaccinations will need to report to municipalities independently, as the government has no data available as to exactly how many people are eligible.Kyodo News reported that Japan's vaccination programme was launched in February for front-line health workers and expanded to those 65 and older in April. The government planned to vaccinate those with underlying conditions, those working for nursing homes and finally, the general public after finishing vaccinating the elderly by July 31.But the government is looking to speed up the country's vaccine rollout, which has lagged behind other countries, with just six per cent of its population having received at least one dose.With the medical system remaining strained, the Covid-19 state of emergency in Tokyo, Osaka and seven other prefectures was extended on Friday by three weeks to June 20, just over a month before the Olympics begin in the capital.Large-scale Covid-19 vaccination centers run by Self-Defense Forces personnel have begin their full-scale operations from today, a week after opening.The centers, which currently target those 65 and older, are available to about 9 million people in the greater Tokyo metropolitan area and about 4.7 million people in the three western Japanese prefectures of Osaka, Kyoto and Hyogo.The Covid-19 state of emergency in Tokyo, Osaka and seven other prefectures was extended on May 28 by three weeks to June 20 -- just over a month before the Olympics begin in the capital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid19-japan-to-vaccinate-all-citizens-below-65-years-says-health-minister-101622450814849.html
31-05-2021||World||Chinese couples can now have three children||China on Monday relaxed its family planning policy allowing couples to have three children.For the majority of Chinese couples, it will be the first time that they will be legally allowed to have three children.During the period when China strictly implemented the one-child policy - from the late 1970s to 2016 - only couples from minority ethnicities were allowed more than one child.The decision to allow three children every family is a response to China’s deepening ageing problem and aims to improve the country’s population structure in the future.It was taken at a meeting of the Communist Party of China’s (CPC) Central Committee’s powerful Politburo, chaired by President and party general secretary, Xi Jinping, on Monday.According to state media reports, the meeting decided that it was necessary to allow couples to have three children to help improve China’s population structure, implement the strategy to actively respond to an ageing population and maintain the country’s population dividend.It was emphasised at the meeting that party committees and governments at all levels should strengthen planning and policy coordination to implement the three-child-birth policy in accordance with the law, state media reports said.Authorities at all levels should promote the coordination of birth policies and related economic and social policies and improve the population impact assessment mechanism of major economic and social policies.The decision was implemented five years after Beijing implemented the two-child policy in 2016 - which, according to experts, did not have the desired effect to counter the problem of China’s ageing society.China had introduced a strict one-child policy for the majority of its citizens in the late 1970s to keep its population under check.Instead in the following four decades, it led to an ageing society and an impending economic burden.The latest census data made public earlier in May had revealed that China’s population is growing at its most sluggish pace in decades, with the country adding only 72 million in the past decade.The average annual growth rate was 0.53% over the past 10 years, down from a rate of 0.57% between 2000 and 2010 - bringing the population to 1.41bn.The total population figure on the mainland stood at 1.41178 billion on November 1, 2020.The rate is the slowest since 1953 when the first census was carried out.The slump in population growth rate - despite Beijing withdrawing the one-child policy in 2016 - will add pressure on Beijing to incentivise child-bearing as the most populous country deals with a rapidly ageing population and the added economic burden.The census result showed that China’s “…population is not just declining but also its demographic structure is deteriorating with a growing ageing population, will serve as an important reference for China’s population and economic policy adjustment as well as plans to put off retirement, which may come in the next year or two”, a state media report said on the census data..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/chinese-couples-can-now-have-three-children-101622449608604.html
31-05-2021||World||China allows couples to have 3 children, up from 2: Report||China has relaxed its family planning policy to allow couples to have a maximum of three children after a census showed its population is rapidly ageing, state media Xinhua reported Monday.For almost 40 years, China enforced a controversial "one-child policy" -- one of the strictest family planning regulations worldwide -- which was lifted in 2016 due to widespread concerns over an ageing workforce and economic stagnation."To actively respond to the ageing of the population ... a couple can have three children," Xinhua said, citing a Monday meeting of China's elite Politburo leadership committee hosted by President Xi Jinping.Despite government efforts to encourage childbirths, China's annual births have continued to plummet to a record low of 12 million in 2020, the National Bureau of Statistics said last month.China's fertility rate stands at 1.3 -- below the level needed to maintain a stable population, the bureau revealed.The once-in-a-decade 2020 census results published last month also showed that China's population grew at its slowest rate since the 1960s, reaching 1.41 billion.It comes alongside a sharp drop in the number of working-age people, once again raising fears of a looming demographic crisis.China's gender balance has also been skewed by decades of the one-child policy, and a traditional social preference for boys which prompted a generation of sex-selective abortions and abandoned baby girls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-allows-couples-to-have-three-children-report-101622447548980.html
31-05-2021||World||China to send 3 male astronauts for 3-month stay in its new space station||China on Monday announced plans to send three male astronauts to its space station next month for a three-month stay, a day after the successful docking of a cargo spacecraft with it, hoping to achieve yet another milestone in its ambitious space programme.The country launched cargo spacecraft Tianzhou-2 on Saturday, carrying supplies, equipment and propellant which had successfully docked with the space station core module Tianhe, according to the China Manned Space Agency (CMSA).Combined with Tianhe, Tianzhou-2 will replenish Tianhe's propellant, it said.China, which launched its space station core module Tianhe on April 29, now plans to complete the verification of key technologies and the in-orbit construction of the space station through multiple launches within two years, state-run Xinhua news agency reported.Yang Liwei, director of the China Manned Space Engineering Office and the country's first astronaut, said that the three astronauts are getting ready to travel by manned spacecraft Shenzhou-12 in June to dock with Tianhe and stay there for three months.Yang, who went into space in the Shenzhou-5 craft on October 15, 2003, told the state-run China Central Television (CCTV) during the weekend that the three astronauts of the Shenzhou-12 mission will stay in space for three months, during which they will conduct tasks, including repair and maintenance, appliance switch and scientific tasks.The three astronauts, who will take the Shenzhou-12 spacecraft to the space station core cabin in June, are now under Level-2 quarantine, with all related work having entered a final sprint stage, according to a report by the state-run Global Times.Although there will not be any female astronauts in the upcoming Shenzhou-12 crewed mission, they will basically participate in every following flight mission, Yang said.The three astronauts will take on command and engineering roles, he said.With the successful launch of the Tianzhou-2 cargo ship, China has completed its first two launch missions out of the total 11 of the intensive space station construction phase, scheduled from April 29, 2021 to 2022.Three will be for modules, four for cargo spaceships and four for manned spaceships, the report said.Four flight crews have been selected from the first and second batch of astronauts for the four Shenzhou missions. Astronauts will conduct multiple tasks outside the cabin, carrying out repair and maintenance on the spacecraft, and other construction missions, Yang said."Astronauts coming out of the cabin will become a new routine, and the duration of such activities will be greatly expanded," he said.China's space station has also been equipped with the robotic arm over which the US has raised concerns for its possible military applications.The arm can be stretched to 15 meters long, which will also play a vital role in building the space station in orbit, Zhou Jianping, chief designer of China's manned space engineering project, said previously.Astronauts will team up with the robotic arm to make in-orbit space station construction and maintenance possible, Yang noted.China in the past has launched several scavenger satellites fitted with robotic arms to gather and steer space debris so it burns up in the Earth’s atmosphere.James Dickinson, commander of the US Space Command, told a congressional hearing last month that the technology “could be used in a future system for grappling other satellites” and was therefore a concern to the US military, the Hong Kong-based South China Morning Post reported.The Chinese space station was expected to be a competitor to the aging International Space Station (ISS) which is a modular space station in low Earth orbit.It is a multinational collaborative project involving five participating space agencies, including America’s NASA, Russia’s Roscomos, Japan’s JAXA, ESA of Europe and CSA of Canada. China's Tiangong is expected to be the sole space station once the ISS retires.A major space power, China launched its first Mars probe last year. The Chinese rover is currently exploring the red planet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-to-send-3-male-astronauts-for-3-month-stay-in-its-new-space-station-101622443019941.html
31-05-2021||World||Tarzan actor Joe Lara, wife among 7 plane crash victims in Tennessee||Investigators on Sunday continued searching for the bodies of seven people believed killed in the crash a day earlier of a small jet into a Tennessee lake, including an actor who portrayed Tarzan in a 1990s television series.Rutherford County Fire Rescue Capt John Ingle said in a statement Sunday that recovery efforts were ongoing at Percy Priest Lake near Smyrna. He said efforts also were focused on examining a half mile-wide debris field in the lake.County officials identified the victims in a news release late Saturday as Brandon Hannah, Gwen S Lara, William J Lara, David L. Martin, Jennifer J Martin, Jessica Walters and Jonathan Walters, all of Brentwood, Tennessee. Their names were released after family members had been notified.Gwen Shamblin Lara founded the Remnant Fellowship Church in Brentwood in 1999 and wrote a faith-based weight loss book. Her husband of nearly three years, known as Joe Lara, was an actor featured in the TV series “Tarzan: The Epic Adventures.”The Federal Aviation Administration said the Cessna C501 plane was heading from nearby Smyrna Rutherford County Airport to Palm Beach International Airport when it crashed Saturday morning. Authorities did not release registration information for the plane.Smyrna is located about 20 miles (32 kilometers) southeast of Nashville. Percy Priest Lake is a reservoir created by the J. Percy Priest Dam. It is a popular spot for boating and fishing.“With dive teams in the water, we are strongly urging civilian boaters to stay away from the public safety boats,” Ingle said.The National Transportation Safety Board had a lead investigator at the site.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/tarzan-actor-joe-lara-wife-among-7-plane-crash-victims-in-tennessee-101622438832943.html
31-05-2021||World||Australia's Victoria Covid-19 outbreak grows to 51, next few days 'critical'||Australia's second most populous state of Victoria, the epicentre of the country's latest coronavirus hotspot, reported 11 new cases of community transmission on Monday, taking the current cluster to 51.Victoria went into a strict seven-day lockdown on Friday after new Covid-19 infections in the state capital Melbourne ended its three-month run of zero community cases.The state reported five new cases in the 24 hours to midnight. At a press conference in Melbourne on Monday, authorities announced a further six cases were recorded after the late night cut-off which will reflect in Tuesday's data.The swelling numbers have raised questions over whether the lockdown will be extended beyond the seven days announced initially."The challenge ahead of us is a very, very significant one," Victorian acting Premier James Merlino told reporters. "We are seeing a small number of cases infecting a large number of contacts."The situation was "incredibly serious" and the next few days will be critical, Merlino added."I want to be really clear with everyone that this outbreak may well get worse before it gets better."Medical officials have said the latest Covid-19 variant, first detected in India, was likely to be more virulent than the original strains, taking just one day to infect another person compared with earlier strains which can take about five or six.Authorities are also concerned about the prospect of a larger outbreak in aged care homes after two workers and one resident at the Arcare facility in Melbourne tested positive, the home operator said in a statement.Hundreds of elderly Victorians in residential aged care facilities died of Covid-19 last year.Victoria endured one of the world's strictest and longest lockdowns last year to suppress a second wave of Covid-19 that killed more than 800 people in the state, accounting for 90% of Australia's total deaths since the pandemic began.Swift contact tracing, snap lockdowns and strict social distancing rules have helped Australia keep its Covid-19 numbers relatively low, with 22,275 local cases and 910 deaths. The country has ranked among the top 10 in a Covid-19 performance index for its successful handling of the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/australias-victoria-covid-19-outbreak-grows-to-51-next-few-days-critical-101622436725569.html
31-05-2021||World||Vietnam to test 9 million residents after hybrid variant from UK, India strain found||Vietnam plans to test all 9 million people in its largest city for the coronavirus and imposed more restrictions Monday to deal with a growing Covid-19 outbreak.People in Ho Chi Minh city are only allowed to leave home for necessary activities and public gatherings of more than 10 people are banned, the government announced. Prior to the order, the city, also Vietnam's economic hub, shut down non-essential business last Thursday when cases started to increase.State newspaper Vietnam News said the city authority is planning to test its entire population with a testing capacity of 100,000 samples a day.The newspaper also said police had filed a case Sunday against the head of a Protestant church mission for “spreading dangerous infectious diseases” citing poor health protocols applied at the premises.At least 145 cases of coronavirus infection have been reported with links to the church, and Go Vap district, where the church is based, has been locked down. Vietnam has since ordered a nationwide ban on all religious events.The newspaper said church followers gathered in small space for singing and chanting without proper distancing and mask wearing.Since the end of April, a surge in Covid-19 has spread to 31 municipalities and provinces in Vietnam with over 4,000 cases, almost double the total number that the country reported since the beginning of the pandemic.Some recent patients in Vietnam were infected with a hybrid of the virus variants first found in India and the UK, the health minister said Saturday. Nguyen Thanh Long said the hybrid might spread more easily and could be responsible for Vietnam's recent surge.Viruses often develop small genetic changes as they reproduce, and new variants of the coronavirus have been seen almost since it was first detected in China in late 2019. The World Health Organization categorized the UK. and the Indian variants, along with two others first found in South Africa and Brazil, as “variants of concern” because they appear to be more contagious.Vietnam has vaccinated 1 million people with AstraZeneca shots. It has a deal with Pfizer for 30 million doses to be delivered later this year. It is also in talks with Moderna that would give it enough shots to fully vaccinate 80% of its 96 million people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/vietnam-to-test-9-million-after-hybrid-variant-from-uk-india-strain-found-101622434875884.html
31-05-2021||World||2 killed, over 20 hurt in deadly shooting near banquet hall in Florida||Two people died and an estimated 20 to 25 people were injured in a shooting outside a banquet hall in South Florida, police said. The gunfire erupted early on Sunday at El Mula Banquet Hall in northwest Miami-Dade County, police told news outlets.The banquet hall had been rented out for a concert. Three people got out of an SUV and opened fire into a crowd outside with assault rifles and handguns, police director Alfredo Ramirez said. Authorities believe the shooting was targeted.“These are cold-blooded murderers that shot indiscriminately into a crowd and we will seek justice,” Ramirez tweeted. Two people died at the scene, police said. As many as 25 people went to various hospitals for treatment. No arrests were immediately announced.Gun-related deaths riseGun-related homicides have surged across the US over the past year. President Joe Biden last month branded gun violence in the country an “epidemic”. There were more than 43,000 gun-related deaths in the US last year, including suicides, according to Gun Violence Archive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/2-killed-over-20-hurt-in-deadly-shooting-near-banquet-hall-in-florida-101622429337755.html
31-05-2021||World||Opposition nears deal to oust Bibi||The head of a small hard-line party on Sunday said he would try to form a unity government with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu’s opponents, taking a major step towards ending the 12-year rule of the Israeli leader.Following the development, Netanyahu, as known as “Bibi” across Israel, said that a coalition government without him was a “danger” for Israel’s security, according to AFP.In an address, Yamina Party leader Naftali Bennett said he has decided to join forces with the country’s opposition leader, Yair Lapid. The pair have until Wednesday to complete a deal in which they are expected to each serve two years as prime minister in a rotation deal.“It’s my intention to do my utmost in order to form a national unity government along with my friend Yair Lapid, so that, god willing, together we can save the country from a tailspin,” Bennett said.A unity government would end the cycle of deadlock that has plunged the country into four elections over the past two years. It also would end the record-setting tenure of Netanyahu, the most dominant figure in Israeli politics over the past three decades.In another development, Israeli and Egyptian officials held talks in both countries on Sunday aimed at bolstering the ceasefire that ended the latest round of violence between Israel and Gaza’s Hamas rulers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/opposition-nears-deal-to-oust-bibi-101622429148683.html
31-05-2021||World||World leaders call for cleaner, greener planet||World leaders on Sunday called for more action and inclusion of all countries in the global drive towards a cleaner and greener planet at a climate summit hosted virtually by South Korea.South Korea, which recently announced plans to cut finance for international coal projects, is seeking a bigger role in the global initiative to go green.“South Korea will play a responsible role as a bridging nation between developing and advanced nations,” said President Moon Jae-in as he opened the 2021 Partnering for Green Growth and the Global Goals 2030, or P4G, summit.The two-day summit is the second of its kind following the inaugural meeting held in Copenhagen in 2018, and is focused on public-private partnerships, especially in developing countries.Advanced nations have laid out ambitious emissions-cutting goals in recent months, as well as plans to ultimately go carbon neutral by 2050.German Chancellor Angela Merkel called on the countries to phase out their dependence on fossil fuels, warning that the climate crisis is threatening people’s lives and the economy as much as the Covid-19 pandemic.British Prime Minister Boris Johnson said countries must now deliver on their green pledges. “It’s a great start, but let’s not pat ourselves on the back just yet because our planet and our people need more,” he said.World leaders committed under the 2015 Paris accord to keeping the global temperature increase to under two degrees Celsius - and ideally closer to 1.5°C - by 2050.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/world-leaders-call-for-cleaner-greener-planet-101622428796672.html
31-05-2021||World||Covid-19 origin: 'Wuhan lab was engaged in military activity...' says Pompeo||Former Secretary of State Mike Pompeo on Saturday said that the Wuhan Institute of Virology (WIV) was engaged in military activity alongside its civilian research -- amid renewed scrutiny of the theory that the Covid-19 pandemic emerged from the secretive lab."What I can say for sure is this: we know that they were engaged in efforts connected to the People's Liberation Army inside of that laboratory, so military activity being performed alongside what they claimed was just good old civilian research," Pompeo said, as per Fox News.Also Read: Covid-19 has no ‘credible natural ancestor’, created in Wuhan lab, new study claimsHe further mentioned: "They refuse to tell us what it was, they refuse to describe the nature of either of those, they refused to allow access to the World Health Organization when it tried to get in there."China is coming under increasing pressure over probe into the origins of the Covid-19, even as scientists are demanding more clarity to go into the roots of the global pandemic.Sky News Australia host Andrew Bolt on May 26 spoke to Professor Nikolai Petrovsky, Director of Endocrinology at Flinders Medical Centre, who said that the world's scientific community had been "tricked by China", reported New York Times Post.Andrew Bolt said on his show The Bolt Report: "Finally a lot of experts are now saying well actually it does now look like this virus maybe did escape from that Chinese lab and China is feeling the heat."Professor Petrovsky told him that although some Chinese scientists have suggested that Covid-19 originated from pangolins, this is unlikely to be the case, reported New York Times Post.WHO team investigating the origins of Covid-19 in China found no evidence that the virus leaked from the Wuhan lab.However, the team was closely monitored by Chinese authorities during its investigation, and one of its members told UK news agency news that China refused to hand over key data from the initial outbreak, reported New York Times Post.This week, the Biden administration pushed China for a further probe into a possible leak from the Wuhan lab. However, China state media rejected the idea that Covid-19 had originated there and said that it is "a conspiracy created by US intelligence agencies", reported New York Times Post.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid19-origin-wuhan-lab-was-engaged-in-military-activity-says-pompeo-101622420358112.html
31-05-2021||World||Israel, Egypt hold high level talks on truce with Hamas, rebuilding Gaza Strip||Egypt and Israel held high-level talks in both countries Sunday to shore up a fragile truce between Israel and the Hamas militant group and rebuild the Gaza Strip after a punishing 11-day war that left parts of the seaside enclave in ruins.Egyptian Foreign Minister Sameh Shukry received his Israeli counterpart, Gabi Ashkenazi, in Cairo. The meeting is part of an effort to build on an Israel-Hamas cease-fire reached May 21 and to revive Israeli-Palestinian negotiations, which have been dormant for more than a decade, Shukry's office said. Egypt has not said how it would be able to restart talks.The hours-long visit was the first public one by an Israeli foreign minister to Egypt since 2008, according to the Israeli Embassy in Cairo.Spokesman Ahmed Hafez said Shukry called for establishing an atmosphere to relaunch “serious and constructive” negotiations between the two sides. He also urged both sides to refrain from “any measures” that could hamper efforts to revive peace talks.They also discussed the release of Israeli soldiers and citizens being held by Hamas, Israel's top diplomat said."We all need to act to prevent strengthening extremist elements that threaten regional stability, and to ensure the return home of the missing persons and prisoners held by Hamas," Ashkenazi said.He also criticized the Palestinian Authority over its moves at the International Criminal Court and the U.N. Human Rights Council, saying such activity damages the chances of future cooperation.Ashkenazi alleged that Palestinian war crimes complaints against Israel —filed over its military conduct since a 2014 war with Hamas and ongoing settlement construction — are an obstacle to political dialogue. The ICC is investigating both Israel and Hamas for possible war crimes. Hamas is under investigation for random rocket fire toward Israeli communities.Despite cease-fire talks, Hamas and the smaller militant group Islamic Jihad have staged weapons parades in a show of force. On Sunday, thousands attended a Hamas rally in the northern Gaza town of Beit Lahiya, where masked militants displayed rockets, launchers and drones.Hamas is holding the remains of two Israeli soldiers killed in a 2014 war. It also is holding two Israeli civilians who were captured after entering Gaza.As part of the cease-fire efforts, Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu hosted Abbas Kamel, Egypt's intelligence chief, in Jerusalem. Netanyahu said he had raised the issue of returning the remains of soldiers and the two civilians as well as Israeli demands to prevent Hamas from gaining strength or diverting resources meant for the civilian population.An Egyptian official said Kamel would also meet with Palestinian officials in the West Bank before heading to Gaza for talks with Hamas leaders. The intelligence agency, which is Egypt’s equivalent of the CIA, usually handles Egypt's ties with Hamas and other Palestinian militant groups in Gaza.Egypt's state-run MENA news agency said Kamel would convey a message from el-Sissi to Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas, affirming “Egypt's full support to the Palestinian people.”It said Cairo would host talks among Palestinian factions to achieve unity between those in Gaza and the Israeli-occupied areas of the West Bank. The report did not provide further details.During a visit to the region last week, Secretary of State Antony Blinken said he was seeking to bolster Abbas and weaken Hamas as part of the cease-fire efforts.Hamas seized control of the Gaza Strip from Abbas' forces in 2007, leaving the internationally recognized Palestinian Authority in charge of administering autonomous zones in some 40% of the Israeli-occupied West Bank. Hamas, which refuses to recognize Israel's right to exist, is branded a terrorist group by Israel, the U.S. and other Western countries.Discussions with Israeli officials have touched on a set of measures that would allow materials, electricity and fuel into the territory, as well as the possible expansion of maritime space allowed for Gaza fishermen, the Egyptian official said.“The role of the Palestinian Authority is central in the talks,” he said. “Egypt is seeking to have it deeply involved in the reconstruction process.”The Egyptian official, who had close knowledge of the proceedings that led to the cease-fire, spoke on condition of anonymity because he wasn’t allowed to brief reporters.The 11-day war killed more than 250 people, mostly Palestinians, and caused heavy destruction in the impoverished coastal territory. Preliminary estimates have put the damage in the hundreds of millions of dollars. Egypt was key in mediating a deal between the two sides.The official said Egypt has offered guarantees that rebuilding funds will not find its way to Hamas, possibly going through an international committee led by Egypt or the United Nations that would oversee the spending.Kamel has also discussed the situation in Jerusalem and ways to ease tensions in the holy city. That would include understandings at the Al-Aqsa Mosque, where Israeli police repeatedly clashed with Palestinian demonstrators, and how to prevent the planned eviction of Palestinian families from the Sheikh Jarrah neighborhood in east Jerusalem, the official said.Egypt last week invited Israel, Hamas and the Palestinian Authority for separate talks in Cairo to consolidate the Cairo-mediated cease-fire and accelerate the reconstruction process in Gaza.Hamas leader Ismail Haniyeh is expected to visit Cairo this week, according to the group's spokesman Abdelatif al-Qanou, who also said Hamas is open to discussing a prisoner swap with Israel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/israel-egypt-hold-high-level-talks-on-truce-with-hamas-rebuilding-gaza-strip-101622419863562.html
31-05-2021||World||UK vaccine passport plans to be scrapped: Report||Britain plans to drop Covid-19 passports as a legal requirement for large events, The Daily Telegraph reported on Sunday.The UK officials working on the review into Covid-19 status certificates believe there is no chance the law will be changed to mandate their use within the UK, the report added.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageA government spokesman said in an emailed statement to Reuters that the Covid-19 vaccine certification review is still in process and no decision has yet been made.There has been mounting concern over the prospect of vaccine certificates voiced by the UK's Conservative Party, as well as opposition lawmakers and civil rights groups. In April, Prime Minister Boris Johnson also signaled the ethical issues posed by Covid-19 vaccine certification.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-vaccine-passport-plans-to-be-scrapped-report-101622419382895.html
31-05-2021||World||Coalition govt 'danger' for Israel's security: Netanyahu as rivals attempt to join forces||A former ally of Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu on Sunday said he would seek to form a coalition government with the Israeli leader's opponents, taking a major step toward ending the rule of the longtime premier.The dramatic announcement by Naftali Bennett, leader of the small hardline Yamina party, set the stage for a series of steps that could push Netanyahu and his dominant Likud party into the opposition in the coming week.While Bennett and his new partners, headed by opposition leader Yair Lapid, still face some obstacles, the sides appeared to be serious about reaching a deal and ending the deadlock that has plunged the country into four elections in the past two years.“It’s my intention to do my utmost in order to form a national unity government along with my friend Yair Lapid, so that, God willing, together we can save the country from a tailspin and return Israel to its course,” Bennett said.The pair have until Wednesday to complete a deal in which each is expected to serve two years as prime minister in a rotation deal, with Bennett holding the job first. Lapid's Yesh Atid party said negotiating teams were to meet later Sunday.Bennett, a former top aide to Netanyahu who has held senior Cabinet posts, shares the prime minister's hard-line ideology. He is a former leader of the West Bank settlement movement and heads a small party whose base includes religious and nationalist Jews. Yet he has had a strained and complicated relationship with his one-time mentor due to personal differences.Bennett said there was no feasible way after the deadlocked March 23 election to form a right-wing government favored by Netanyahu. He said another election would yield the same results and said it was time to end the cycle.“A government like this will succeed only if we work together as a group,” he said. He said everyone “will need to postpone fulfilling part of their dreams. We will focus on what can be done, instead of fighting all day on what’s impossible.”If Bennett and Lapid and their other partners can wrap up a deal, it would end, at least for the time being, the record-setting tenure of Netanyahu, the most dominant figure in Israeli politics over the past three decades. Netanyahu has served as prime minister for the past 12 years and also held an earlier term in the late 1990s.In his own televised statement, Netanyahu accused Bennett of betraying the Israeli right wing and urged nationalist politicians not to join what he called a “leftist government.”“A government like this is a danger to the security of Israel, and is also a danger to the future of the state,” he said.Despite his electoral dominance, Netanyahu has become a polarizing figure since he was indicted on charges of fraud, breach of trust and accepting bribes in late 2019. Each of the past four elections was seen as a referendum on Netanyahu's fitness to rule, and each ended in deadlock.Netanyahu is desperate to stay in power while he is on trial. He has used his office as a stage to rally his base and lash out against police, prosecutors and the media.In order to form a government, a party leader must secure the support of a 61-seat majority in the 120-seat Knesset, or parliament. Because no single party controls a majority on its own, coalitions are usually built with smaller partners. Thirteen parties of various sizes are in the current parliament.As leader of the largest party, Netanyahu was given the first opportunity by the country’s figurehead president to form a coalition. But he was unable to secure a majority with his traditional religious and nationalist allies.Netanyahu even attempted to court a small Islamist Arab party but was thwarted by a small ultranationalist party with a racist anti-Arab agenda. Although Arabs make up some 20% of Israel’s population, an Arab party has never before sat in an Israeli coalition government.After Netanyahu’s failure to form a government, Lapid was then given four weeks to cobble together a coalition. He has until Wednesday to complete the task.While Bennett's Yamina party controls just seven seats in parliament, he has emerged as a kingmaker of sorts by providing the necessary support to secure a majority. If he is successful, his party would be the smallest to lead an Israeli government.Lapid already faced a difficult challenge, given the broad range of parties in the anti-Netanyahu bloc that have little in common. They include dovish left-wing parties, a pair of right-wing nationalist parties, including Bennett’s Yamina, and most likely the Islamist United Arab List.Lapid’s task was made even more difficult after war broke out with Hamas militants in the Gaza Strip on May 10. His coalition talks were put on hold during the 11 days of fighting.But with Wednesday’s deadline looming, negotiations have kicked into high gear. Lapid has reached coalition deals with three other parties so far. If he finalizes a deal with Bennett, the remaining partners are expected to quickly fall into place.They would then have roughly one week to present their coalition to parliament for a formal vote of confidence allowing it to take office.Yohanan Plesner, president of the Israel Democracy Institute, said Netanyahu will try to undermine those efforts until the end.Netanyahu’s main strategy, he said, would be to try to appeal to hard-liners in both Bennett’s party and New Hope, another hard-line party led by a former Netanyahu confidant, to withdraw their support for the new coalition. A defection of just one or two lawmakers could prevent Lapid from mustering a majority and force another election.“Anything might happen,” Plesner said. “I would wait for the final vote to go through.”Even if Lapid and Bennett manage to put together a government, Netanyahu is unlikely to disappear, Plesner said.Netanyahu could remain as opposition leader, working to exploit the deep ideological differences among his opponents to cause the coalition to fracture.“History teaches us it would be unwise to write him off," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/coalition-govt-danger-for-israel-s-security-netanyahu-as-rivals-attempt-to-join-forces-101622414389980.html
31-05-2021||World||Texas GOP's strict voting bill on the verge of final vote||The Texas Legislature was on the verge Sunday of signing off on some of the most restrictive voting measures in the U.S., putting the GOP on the brink of a major victory in their nationwide effort to tighten voting access following the 2020 election.A vote in the state House expected later Sunday is the last barrier to sending Republican Gov. Greg Abbott a raft of election changes that would eliminate drive-thru voting, empower partisan poll watchers and impose new requirements in order to cast a ballot by mail in Texas, which already has some of toughest voting laws in the nation.Democrats dug in for one last and longshot challenge on the House floor but had little means of stopping the bill. Hours earlier on Sunday, the Texas Senate muscled the bill through shortly after sunrise after bringing it up for a vote in the middle of the night on a Memorial Day weekend, when the state Capitol was all but empty.Even before the final House vote, Democrats said they would try to block the measure in court.“It's an awful bill," said Democratic state Rep. Jessica Gonzalez, the vice chairwoman of the House Elections Committee. ”But I'm hopeful that this underhanded behavior, the way they undercut the process, will help us when we litigate this."Under revisions during closed-door negotiations, Republicans added language that could make it easier for a judge to overturn an election and pushed back the start of Sunday voting, when many Black churchgoers head to the polls. The 67-page measure would also eliminate drive-thru voting and 24-hour polling centers, both of which Harris County, the state’s largest Democratic stronghold, introduced last year.Texas is the last big battleground in the GOP's nationwide efforts to tighten voting laws, driven by former President Donald Trump's false claims that the 2020 election was stolen from him. Georgia and Florida have also passed new voting restrictions, and President Joe Biden on Saturday unfavorably compared Texas' bill to election changes in those states as “an assault on democracy.”The vote in the Texas Senate came just a short time after a final version of the bill had been made public Saturday. Around midnight, Republicans wielded their majority to suspend rules that would normally prohibit taking a vote on a bill that had not been posted for 24 hours, which Democrats protested as a breach of protocol that denied them and the public time to review the language first.The bill would newly empower partisan poll watchers by allowing them more access inside polling places and threatening criminal penalties against elections officials who restrict their movement. Republicans originally proposed giving poll watchers the right to take photos, but that language was removed from the final bill that lawmakers were set to vote on this weekend.Another new provision could also make it easier to overturn an election in Texas, allowing for a judge to void an outcome if the number of fraudulent votes cast could change the result, regardless of whether it was proved that fraud affected the outcome.Election officials would also face new criminal penalties, including felony charges for sending mail voting applications to people who did not request one. The Texas District and County Attorneys Association tweeted that it had counted in the bill at least 16 new, expanded or enhanced crimes related to elections.GOP legislators are also moving to prohibit Sunday voting before 1 p.m., which critics called an attack on what is commonly known as “souls to the polls” — a get-out-the-vote campaign used by Black church congregations nationwide. The idea traces back to the civil rights movement. Democratic state Rep. Nicole Collier, chairwoman of the Texas Legislative Black Caucus, said the change is “going to disengage, disenfranchise those who use the souls to the polls opportunity.”Pressed on the Senate floor over why Sunday voting couldn't begin sooner, Republican Sen. Bryan Hughes said, “Election workers want to go to church, too.”Collier was one of three Democrats picked to negotiate the final version, none of whom signed their name to it. She said she saw a draft of the bill around 11 p.m. Friday — which was different than one she had received earlier that day — and was asked for her signature the next morning.Major corporations, including Texas-based American Airlines and Dell, have warned that the measures could harm democracy and the economic climate. But Republicans shrugged off their objections, and in some cases, ripped business leaders for speaking out.Texas already has some of the country’s tightest voting restrictions and is regularly cited by nonpartisan groups as a state where it is especially hard to vote. It was one of the few states that did not make it easier to vote by mail during the pandemic.The top Republican negotiators, Hughes and state Rep. Briscoe Cain, called the bill “one of the most comprehensive and sensible election reform bills” in Texas’ history.“Even as the national media minimizes the importance of election integrity, the Texas Legislature has not bent to headlines or corporate virtue signaling,” they said in a joint statement.Since Trump’s defeat, at least 14 states have enacted more restrictive voting laws, according to the New York-based Brennan Center for Justice. It has also counted nearly 400 bills filed this year nationwide that would restrict voting.Republican lawmakers in Texas have insisted that the changes are not a response to Trump’s false claims of widespread fraud but are needed to restore confidence in the voting process. But doubts about the election’s outcome have been fanned by some of the state’s top GOP leaders, including Attorney General Ken Paxton, who led a failed lawsuit at the U.S. Supreme Court to try to overturn the election.Lt. Gov. Dan Patrick, who chaired Trump’s presidential campaign in Texas, offered a $1 million reward to anyone who could produce evidence of voter fraud. Nonpartisan investigations of previous elections have found that voter fraud is exceedingly rare. State officials from both parties, including in Texas, as well as international observers have also said the 2020 election went well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/texas-gop-s-strict-voting-bill-on-the-verge-of-final-vote-101622410786572.html
31-05-2021||World||China feels Covid heat as study backs lab theory||Amid calls for a fresh probe into the origins of Covid-19, a new study has claimed that Chinese scientists created the virus in a laboratory in Wuhan and then tried to cover their tracks by reverse-engineering versions of the virus to make it look like it evolved naturally from bats.The virus has no “credible natural ancestor” and was created by Chinese scientists who were working on a gain-of-function research in a Wuhan lab, The Daily Mail reported on Sunday, citing a research paper compiled by British expert Angus Dalgleish and Norwegian scientist Birger Sorensen.Incidentally, gain-of-function projects, which involve tweaking natural viruses to make them more infectious, were banned in the US during the Obama years.The research claims scientists took a natural coronavirus “backbone” found in China’s cave bats and spliced onto it a new “spike”, turning it into the Covid-19 virus. The researchers also claim to have found “unique fingerprints” in Covid-19 samples that they say could have arisen from manipulation in a laboratory.The authors claim they had prima facie evidence of retro-engineering in China for a year. The study alleged “deliberate destruction, concealment or contamination of data” at Chinese labs. In the paper that is likely to be published in the journal Quarterly Review of Biophysics Discovery, Dalgleish and Sorensen claim to have concluded how Chinese scientists built the tools to create the coronavirus.British intel believes lab theory ‘feasible’: ReportBritish intelligence agencies believe it is “feasible” that the pandemic began with a virus leak from the Chinese lab, The Sunday Times reported on Sunday, prompting vaccines minister Nadhim Zahawi to demand that the World Health Organization must fully investigate the origins of the deadly virus.B.1.617 can hit easing of UK’s lockdown: ExpertThe B.1.617 variant of Covid-19 could become a big problem in the UK’s plans to ease lockdown restrictions, an academician with Cambridge University has warned. Tim Gowers told The Guardian on Saturday that the UK’s fight against the virus could turn bad “very, very quickly” unless the government acts cautiously on easing measures.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-feels-covid-heat-as-study-backs-lab-theory-101622408382783.html
31-05-2021||World||UK PM Boris marries partner in secret ceremony||British Prime Minister Boris Johnson has married his fiancée, Carrie Symonds, in a small private ceremony that came at the end of a tumultuous week during which a former top aide said he was unfit for office.The couple wed on Saturday at the Roman Catholic Westminster Cathedral in front of a small group of friends and family, Johnson’s office said on Sunday, confirming newspaper reports that were published overnight.“The Prime Minister and Ms. Symonds were married yesterday afternoon in a small ceremony at Westminster Cathedral,’’ Downing Street said. “The couple will celebrate their wedding with family and friends next summer,” the statement said.The couple have reportedly sent save-the-date cards to family and friends for a celebration on July 30, 2022. Under current coronavirus restrictions in England, no more than 30 people can attend a wedding.Johnson, 56, and Symonds, a 33-year-old Conservative Party insider and environmental advocate, announced their engagement in February 2020. Their son, Wilfred, was born in April last year.The marriage is Johnson’s third. He has at least five other children from previous relationships.Johnson’s previous marriages would not have stopped him from having a Catholic wedding because they didn’t take place in the Catholic church, Matt Chinery, an ecclesiastical and canon lawyer, told Times Radio.The wedding followed a difficult political week for Johnson. His former top aide, Dominic Cummings, told lawmakers that Johnson had bungled the government’s response to the coronavirus pandemic and said he was “unfit for the job”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-pm-boris-marries-partner-in-secret-ceremony-101622406975645.html
31-05-2021||India||'Kappa' and 'Delta': WHO gives names to Covid-19 variants found in India||The World Health Organization (WHO) on Monday announced news labels, using Greek alphabets, for various variants of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), also giving names to the two variants that have been found in India thus far.Click here for latest Covid-19 updates"Labelled using Greek alphabets, WHO announces new labels for Covid variants of concern (VOC) and interest (VOI)," news agency ANI quoted the world health body as saying. "Covid variant first found in India will be referred to as Delta, while earlier found variant in the country will be known as Kappa," WHO further said.According to WHO, the B.1.617.1 variant has been designated as "Kappa" while the B1.617.2 variant has been dubbed "Delta." The earliest samples from both the variants from both the variants were documented in October 2020, it said.The labels, said WHO's technical Covid-19 lead Dr Maria Van Kerkhove, don't replace existing scientific names, which, she said, convey important scientific information and will continue to be used in research. "No country should be stigmatised for detecting and reporting Covid variants," Dr Kerkhove said further.The labels don’t replace existing scientific names, which convey important scientific information and will continue to be used in research. No country should be stigmatized for detecting and reporting Covid variants: Dr Maria Van Kerkhove, Technical lead COVID-19 at WHO pic.twitter.com/odcQW4J3KfThe B1.617.2 or "Delta" variant, reports of whose unofficial nomenclature after India were dismissed by the central government, is seen as the cause behind the devastating second Covid-19 wave in the country.Also Read | WHO has not termed B.1.617 as Indian variant, says CentreAt the peak of the second wave, in April, India reported more than 100,000 Covid-19 cases in a day for the first time, and also went on to see more than 400,000 cases in a single-day, as well as more than or close to 4,000 related fatalities daily. However, in the last few days, the number of fresh infections have fallen below the 200,000-mark.Also Read | Covid mutation in India 'variant of concern', says WHOIn the last 24 hours, India's infection tally rose by 152,734 cases, while the death toll increased by 3,128 fatalities, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) dashboard at 8am on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kappa-and-delta-who-gives-names-to-covid-19-variants-found-in-india-101622480118530.html
31-05-2021||India||Centre imposes ban on import of 108 defence items to boost self-reliance||To promote self-reliance in the defence sector, the central government on Monday notified a list of 108 defence items that cannot be imported by the armed forces with the ban kicking off from December. The ‘positive indigenisation list’, will be implemented progressively from December 2021 to December 2025, the defence ministry said in a statement.“This will give further boost to indigenisation with active participation of public and private sector for fulfilling the twin objectives of achieving self-reliance and promoting defence exports. All the 108 items will now be procured from indigenous sources as per provisions given in Defence Acquisition Procedure (DAP) 2020,” the statement said.This is the second such list to be notified by the government in less than a year.In August 2020, the government prepared a list of 101 items on which there would be an embargo on import to give a push to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan’ (self-reliant India movement). The embargo for items in the first list, then called ‘negative import list’, kicks in for different items between 2020 and 2025.The second list consists of several military systems including specified types of helicopters, next-generation corvettes, airborne early warning and control (AEW&C) systems, tank engines, medium power radar for mountains, medium-range surface to air missile systems and anti-material rifles, the ministry said in a statement. The first list included artillery guns, missile destroyers, ship-borne cruise missiles, light combat aircraft, light transport aircraft, long-range land-attack cruise missiles, communication satellites, basic trainer aircraft, multi-barrel rocket launchers, a variety of radars, assault rifles, sniper rifles, mini-UAVs and different types of ammunition.The second list lays special focus on weapons/systems which are currently under development/trials and are likely to translate into firm orders in the future, the ministry said on Monday. Like the first list, import substitution of ammunition, which is a recurring requirement, has been given special focus, it added.India has set aside ₹70,221 crore this year for domestic defence procurement, accounting for 63% of the military’s capital budget. Last year, the ministry spent over ₹51,000 crore, or 58% of the capital budget, on domestic purchases.From raising foreign direct investment (FDI) in defence manufacturing to creating a separate budget for buying locally made military hardware and notifying a list of weapons/equipment that cannot be imported, the government announced a raft of measures to boost self-reliance in the defence sector in May 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-imposes-ban-on-import-of-108-defence-items-to-boost-selfreliance-101622481950005.html
31-05-2021||India||Tamil Nadu left with Covid-19 vaccine stock for 2 more days||Tamil Nadu has Covid-19 vaccine stock remaining only for two more days, health officials told media on Monday. The vaccination drive in the state will be on hold unless the Centre either supplies 1.74 doses that are pending in this month’s (May) allocation or when the first consignment for June’s allocation arrives on the 6th.“We have directed officials in Chennai and other districts to complete administering of whatever vaccines are left. We will have to stop when there is zero stock and we can only restart when we get the next supply,” health secretary J Radhakrishnan said.As of Monday morning, after wastage, Tamil Nadu had around 4.93 lakh doses of Covid-19 vaccines in stock. Out of this, 2.69 lakh doses are for the 18-45 age group and 2.24 lakh doses are for above those above 45 years of age.The state has informed the Centre of the shortage. “The Union government has allocated 20.43 doses for May and we have received 18.68 lakh doses,” Radhakrishnan said.“As of Monday, we are yet to receive a balance of 1.74 lakh doses from the allotment for May. We are not sure when will it reach Tamil Nadu, whether it is tomorrow or the day after. They (Centre) have said that they will inform us in a couple of days. If we receive this soon we will be able to continue vaccinating,” he said.For June, the Union government on Monday informed the state that 42.58 lakh doses will be allocated. “The only catch in this is that the first consignment in this allotment will reach Tamil Nadu only by June 6. The next supply will reach by June 9,” Radhakrishnan said, adding that due to supply issues across the country they can only make allotments step-by step despite doubling the allocation for Tamil Nadu. 3-lakh doses are expected to arrive on June 6.Tamil Nadu has received 96.18 lakh doses of the Covid-19 vaccine till date which has been used to vaccinate 87.70 lakh people across age groups until May 30 night.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-left-with-covid-19-vaccine-stock-for-2-more-days-101622481889930.html
31-05-2021||India||Over 21 crore vaccine doses administered in India so far: Health ministry||The cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country exceeded 21.58 crores as on Monday, according to the provisional report by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare.As many as 12,23,596 beneficiaries of the age group 18-44 years received their first dose and 13,402 beneficiaries of the same age group received their second dose of Covid vaccine today, the ministry informed.A total of 21,58,18,547 including 98,83,778 Healthcare Workers (HCWs) have received their 1st dose, and 67,87,633 HCWs have received the 2nd dose. While 1,56,67,311 Frontline Workers (FLWs) got their first dose, and 85,21,965 FLWs got their second dose of the vaccination.Cumulatively, 2,02,10,889 persons across 37 states and Union Territories have received their first dose and a total of 23,491 persons have received their second dose since the start of Phase-3 of the vaccination drive.According to the ministry, Bihar, Delhi, Gujarat, Haryana, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal have administered more than 10 lakh beneficiaries of the age group 18-44 years for the first dose of Covid vaccine.For the 18-44 age group, 2,02,10,889 received their first vaccine shot, and 23,491 got their second dose. And the category of over 45 to 60 years, 6,64,02,012 were administered with their first dose, while 1,07,15,693 got their second, the health ministry said.5,88,31,736 of the above 60 years category got their first dose, and 1,87,74,039 were given their second dose so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-21-crore-vaccine-doses-administered-in-india-so-far-health-ministry-101622481009929.html
31-05-2021||India||'Woman in question part of team that abducted Mehul Choksi', claims his lawyer||Fugitive businessman Mehul Choksi's lawyer has contested the remarks made by Antigua and Barbuda’s Prime Minister Gaston Browne who said that the diamantaire may have taken his girlfriend to Dominica on a romantic trip and got caught.In a statement, Choksi's lawyer Vijay Aggarwal alleged that the woman in question was part of the team deployed to abduct him. Aggarwal said that the woman "got friendly with the whole family" and later shifted to a house near Choksi's residence in Antigua.Aggarwal further claimed in the statement that the woman invited Choksi to her house for a short while and there other members of the team deployed to pick the businessman. "They grabbed him and threw him in a yacht and took him to Dominica."The lawyer's statement also said that since the woman has vanished, Choksi's stand that he was kidnapped is valid.Gaston Browne had earlier told local media that India has sent a private jet to get Mehul Choksi repatriated directly from Dominica. Choksi has Antiguan citizenship and has been living there since he fled India after being named in a financial scam.A Bombardier Global 5,000 jet of Qatar Executive had mysteriously landed at Dominica’s Douglas Charles airport on Saturday. It’s publicly accessible flight path shows that it took off from New Delhi on May 28 and reached Dominica via Madrid.PM Browne, who has been vocal about not accepting Choksi back in his country, where he is a citizen, said, “My understanding is that [the] Indian government has sent certain documentation from courts in India to confirm that Choksi is indeed a fugitive”. These documents, Browne added, will be utilised in the court case in Dominica, where a judge is hearing the matter and has put a stay on repatriation till Wednesday.The latest development comes shortly after Choksi's first picture emerged in three years, showing him behind bars and with injuries on his hands and a swollen and bruised left eye. The pictures were released by the Antigua Newsroom. His lawyers have alleged abduction attempt from Jolly Harbour in Antigua and Barbuda by Indian and Antiguan officials.Also Read: Mehul Choksi tests negative for Covid-19, admitted to hospital, say reportsAfter Choksi mysteriously disappeared from Antigua last Sunday, a political storm was sparked in Antigua where he is a citizen.Choksi and his nephew Nirav Modi are wanted in India for allegedly siphoning off ₹13,500 crore of public money from the state-run Punjab National Bank (PNB) using letters of undertaking.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/woman-in-question-part-of-team-that-abducted-mehul-choksi-claims-his-lawyer-101622477500056.html
31-05-2021||India||News updates from HT: Doctors' association calls for 'Black Day' to protest Ramdev's remarks and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Doctors' association gives call for 'Black Day' on June 1 to protest Baba Ramdev’s remarksA doctors' association has given a call for nationwide protest against the remarks made by yoga guru Baba Ramdev. The Federation of resident doctors' association (FORDA) issued a release in which it said that June 1 will be observed as 'Black Day'. Read moreKohli, Pant, Bumrah begin training, sweat it out at gym ahead of England tourVirat Kohli-led Team India are currently under quarantine in Mumbai ahead of their departure to the UK for the Championship (WTC) final against Kane Williamson's New Zealand and a five-match Test series against England. Read moreRecipe: Not in mood for a big meal? Stay full with creamy broccoli cheese soupRains are here to stay and to feel safe and warm on a cold wet night, all we really need is soup to hug us like a warm blanket which is why we are whipping up some creamy broccoli cheese soup tonight. Read moreBride and groom play 'bottle flip' during wedding, netizens love their chemistryWeddings can sometimes go on for a long duration. And while the guests can keep busy by watching the couple, eating the delicious food, and meeting and greeting each other, the couple doesn’t quite have all these options. So this couple found a way to pass some time - by playing 'bottle flip'. Read morePM Modi Vs CM Mamata over Bengal Chief Secretary: Who holds the moral high?PM Modi and CM Mamata have locked horns again, this time over the sudden transfer of West Bengal Chief Secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-doctors-association-calls-for-black-day-on-june-1-to-protest-baba-ramdev-s-remarks-and-all-the-latest-news-101622474380238.html
31-05-2021||India||2.79 mn Sputnik V Covid-19 vaccine to reach India tonight, 5 mn more in June||The first large consignment of millions of doses of Russia’s Sputnik V Covid-19 vaccine is set to reach India on Monday. The developers of the jab are expected to supply a total of 18 million doses over the next two months.The Russian side has supplied 210,000 doses in two batches to India and the remainder of the total of three million doses expected in May is set to reach the country late on Monday, people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity. A majority of these three million doses are being provided in bulk and will be “filled and finished” in India. This will be followed by bulk exports of five million doses in June and another 10 million doses in July, the people said.Sputnik V, which gives 91.4% protection against Covid-19, became the third Coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccine to be granted emergency use authorisation by India in April. The vaccine’s Russian developers have tied up with Dr Reddy’s Laboratories for the distribution of doses in India. They have signed agreements with several firms to manufacture up to 850 million doses a year.The Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) or Russia’s sovereign wealth fund and Panacea Biotec recently announced that full-scale production of the vaccine in India following the transfer of technology will start this summer. The people cited above said the two sides are looking at beginning the production in India by August. The first batch of vaccines produced at Panacea Biotec’s facilities at Baddi in Himachal Pradesh will be shipped to Gamaleya Center in Russia for quality control checks before full-scale production starts. India’s envoy to Russia, DB Venkatesh Varma, said recently that almost 70% of all doses of Sputnik V produced around the world will be made in India. The Russian side has also sought regulatory approvals for Sputnik Light, a single dose variant of the vaccine, though all the procedures are yet to be completed.Sputnik Light has shown 79.4% efficacy, according to data gathered after the single shot was administered as part of Russia’s mass vaccination programme between December 2020 and April 2021.However, plans drawn up by the Russian developers of the vaccine to export a majority of the vaccines manufactured in India are expected to be shelved because of the huge demand within the country following a devastating second wave of Covid-19 infections and a severe shortage of jabs, the people cited above said. With India temporarily halting all vaccine exports last month to speed up the domestic immunisation drive, further supplies of doses to other countries are unlikely to resume till the end of the year, the people said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/279-mn-sputnik-v-covid-19-vaccine-to-reach-india-tonight-5-mn-more-in-june-101622474509572.html
31-05-2021||India||AIADMK leader K Palaniswami urges PM Modi to increase Amphotericin supply to TN||Anti-fungal drug Amphotericin is in short supply and its allotment to Tamil Nadu should be increased, Leader of Opposition and top AIADMK leader K Palaniswami requested the Centre on Monday. Referring to the incidence of black fungus in Tamil Nadu, Palaniswami, in a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, said mucormycosis was spreading rapidly all over the state. Amphotericin injection, used to treat the infection, is in short supply, he said and requested Modi to increase its allotment to enable the affected people to get access to life saving treatment. The former Chief Minister expressed his gratitude to Modi for immediately looking into the Covid-19 related requirements of Tamil Nadu and increasing allotment of vaccines, oxygen and anti-viral Remdesivir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aiadmk-leader-k-palaniswami-urges-pm-modi-to-increase-amphotericin-supply-to-tn-101622472104105.html
31-05-2021||India||BJP chief JP Nadda, minister Anurag Thakur send oxygen concentrators and medical supply to Himachal Pradesh||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president Jagat Prakash Nadda, minister of state for finance Anurag Thakur and Himachal Pradesh chief minister Jairam Thakur on Monday laid the foundation stones for two oxygen plants for the state. The oxygen plants of 140 LPM each are being set up in Hamirpur and Bilaspur.They also flagged off 108 oxygen concentrators, 160 oxygen cylinders that will cater to over 330 hospital beds as part of Covid relief today.“I express my sincere gratitude to Sh JP Nadda Ji for laying the foundation for 2 Oxygen Plants for Hamirpur & Bilaspur and for flagging off oxygen equipments that will cater to over 330 hospital beds as part of COVID relief today. I am working to transform my parliamentary constituency into an Oxygen Bank, all these resources are aimed in that direction. We will set up a total of 3 Oxygen generation plants, along with providing 300 Oxygen Concentrators and 200 oxygen cylinders which will cater to 700 beds providing a robust supply of O2. Earlier we had dispatched 17 Asptal Mobile Medical Units carrying COVID relief materials for 12 districts in Himachal Pradesh. My endeavour has been to strengthen relief efforts in Himachal by providing timely resources to help save lives. I would like to highlight and applaud CM Himachal Pradesh Sh Jairam Thakur ji has ensured these COVID relief medical equipments and resources along with all the central assistance on this front are swiftly allocated to their intended beneficiaries,” Union minister Anurag Thakur said.Speaking on the occasion, Jairam Thakur said, “Himachal Pradesh is fighting COVID with determination and has relentlessly received support from Sh Anurag Thakur. He had sent a large consignment of COVID relief supplies a few weeks ago and together we have ensured the state is fully equipped in its fight against COVID. Himachal Government is providing the best possible facilities towards treatment of COVID patients and started the Himachal COVID Care Mobile App. The state is amongst the top in India vis-vis vaccination drive.”“I congratulate Sh Anurag Thakur for strengthening the COVID relief efforts and providing resources to Himachal Pradesh through the pandemic period. A few weeks ago we had flagged of 17 Asptal Mobile Medical Units carrying COVID relief materials for 12 districts in Himachal Pradesh. Today we are laying the foundation for 2 PSA Oxygen Plants of 140 LPM each for Hamirpur & Bilaspur and also flagging off - 108 Oxygen Concentrators, 160 Oxygen Cylinders that will cater to over 330 hospital beds as part of our continuing COVID relief efforts. The BJP and its karyakartas across the country are engaged in these efforts under the mantra of ‘Seva hi Sangathan’. Everyone in their capacity is coming forward to provide assistance; we must continue this and ensure all our relief materials reach their intended beneficiaries in Himachal Pradesh,” said the BJP chief.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-chief-jp-nadda-minister-anurag-thakur-send-oxygen-concentrators-and-medical-supply-to-himachal-101622471330024.html
31-05-2021||India||‘Unite. Centre trying to absolve itself’: Vijayan to 11 non-NDA CMs on vaccine||Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Monday wrote to his counterparts in 11 states ruled by non-NDA parties to urge them to put up a joint effort to nudge the central government to procure the vaccines and distribute them free of cost.“It is important that vaccines should be provided free of cost considering it as a public good, the access to which shall be denied to none due to lack of financial wherewithal,” his letter said, underscoring that if the burden to procure the vaccine is left entirely on states, their fiscal situation will be affected.“When the nation is passing through the second surge, it is unfortunate the Centre is absolving itself of its bounden duty to provide adequate supply of vaccine. The impact of the second surge has been unprecedented, putting all of us in a state of alarm. Experts have warned about a third wave also. This necessitates our heightened preparation and vigil to meet that eventuality too,” he said.Vijayan sent the letters to chief ministers of Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra, Odisha, West Bengal, Rajasthan, Chattisgarh, Jharkhand, Delhi and Punjab.His letter comes against the backdrop of the Supreme Court’s sharp observation that there should be only one price for Covid-19 vaccines across the nation. “In a national crisis, the central government should procure vaccines for the entire country. States are left in a lurch. You should tell them that we will negotiate globally and procure vaccines for them so that there is clarity,” a three-member bench of justice DY Chandrachud, justice LN Rao and justice S Ravindra Bhat told Solicitor General Tushar Mehta on Monday. The Centre had announced a three-tier price structure for vaccines produced in the country. that gave it access to vaccines for ₹150 but others - states and hospitals - have to pay up to ₹1,200 for Covaxin.“It is learnt that the Union government has taken a stand that the states should resort to their own measures to procure vaccines. The supply of the vaccine is scarce as compared to the demand for the same,” he said, underscoring that states have to scale up the number of people who have received vaccination since herd immunity will be effective if only a substantial chunk of the population is vaccinated.As on date, only 3.1% of the people have been administered two doses of Covid-19 vaccine. Vaccine manufacturing companies are “looking for financial gains by exploiting the scarce supply situation” and foreign companies are unwilling to enter into agreements with states for procurement.The chief minister also pointed out that the state had placed an order for 10 million vaccines last month but received only 8.84 lakh doses. Chief minister Vijayan has written four letters to seek vaccines and oxygen after assuming power for the second time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-is-absolving-itself-of-duty-kerala-s-vijayan-to-11-non-nda-cms-101622469469228.html
31-05-2021||India||Doctors' association gives call for 'Black Day' on June 1 to protest Baba Ramdev’s remarks||A doctors' association has given a call for nationwide protest against the remarks made by yoga guru Baba Ramdev. The Federation of resident doctors' association (FORDA) issued a release in which it said that June 1 will be observed as 'Black Day'.The call has been given to condemn the “derogatory and distasteful statements” made by Baba Ramdev, FORDA said. It added that patient care will not be hampered by the day-long protest.The India Medical Association (IMA) strongly objected to Ramdev's statement, made last week, and demanded action against him.“It is stated that the accused being a businessman, in order to take advantage of the present situation and his large public following, is wilfully and deliberately advancing dishonest representations… about allopathy and modern medicine… and to swindle them into parting with their monies by taking Swami Ramdev’s unapproved and dubious drugs,” the IMA said in a 14-page complaint sent to the Centre.The war of words started after Ramdev called allopathy a “stupid science” in an interview. IMA criticised the yoga guru and asked for an unconditional apology, which Ramdev had to furnish on Sunday after being cautioned by the Union health minister."IMA brings to the notice of our Health Minister, a video circulating in social media portraying, the celebrated Yoga Guruji saying that 'modern allopathy ek aisi stupid aur diwaliya science hai' (modern allopathy is a stupid and failed science)," the association had said in its statement.On Wednesday last week, IMA asked PM Modi to take strict action against Ramdev for spreading misinformation about vaccines due to which ASHA workers tasked with immunizing people have been attacked by people who have fallen for his claims, reported PTI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/doctors-association-gives-call-for-black-day-on-june-1-to-protest-baba-ramdev-s-remarks-101622468601542.html
31-05-2021||India||Covid-19: Lakshadweep administration extends complete shutdown by a week||The Lakshadweep administration on Monday announced extension of the complete shutdown for seven more days, beginning May 31, considering the rising number of Covid-19 cases in the islands. The complete shutdown was first announced on May 24 for a week. Lakshadweep District Collector S Asker Ali, in an order, also announced a night curfew in five islands, including Kiltan and Chetlath. He said the present situation made it necessary to regulate movement of people, enhance testing capacity, ensure strict enforcement of prescribed containment strategies, focus on surveillance and strict observance of standard Covid-19 protocol to prevent further spread of the virus as per the latest guidelines of the Ministry of Home Affairs. Many essential services, including water supply, fire, electricity, police, health, disaster management, shipping, guest house, BSNL, people managing Covid-19, Indian Navy and Coast Guard have been exempted from the shutdown on production of ID-card with Covid negative test report, the order said. "Non-compliance will be taken seriously by the authority and appropriate actions will be taken as per the relevant sections of the Disaster Management Act-2015 and Indian Penal Code," it said. According to officials, there are 2,006 active cases in the islands. The Test Positivity Rate was comparatively high in Kavaratti, Kalpeni, Androth, Amini and Minicoy, they said. Authorities said the 'corona curfew' enforced in all islands with different timings and exemptions has become an effective tool in the overall containment strategy. Last week, the Kerala High Court had dismissed a plea challenging a single bench order in which the court accepted the Lakshadweep administration's contentions in support of the revision of Standard Operation Procedure (SOP) in connection with the Covid-19 management in the islands. The single bench had dismissed a plea challenging the revised SOP issued on December 22 last year, which substituted the earlier mandatory institutional and home quarantine of all persons travelling to the island, with just a negative test report of RT-PCR, obtained 48 hours before the travel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-lakshadweep-administration-extends-complete-shutdown-by-a-week-101622462117874.html
31-05-2021||India||UP govt relaxes Covid curfew in 6 more districts: What's open, what's not||The Uttar Pradesh government on Monday extended the relaxations announced in the coronavirus curfew to six more districts from June 1, allowing shops and markets outside the containment zones to open for five days a week. With this, 61 districts (out of 75) in the state are now out of Covid-19 curbs.The relaxations were announced on Sunday, in districts which have less than 600 cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The districts added in the list on Monday are: Sonbhadra, Deoria, Baghpat, Prayagraj, Bijnore and Moradabad.After the latest order, there are 14 districts in Uttar Pradesh where there would be no relaxations. There are: Meerut, Lucknow, Saharanpur, Varanasi, Ghaziabad, Gorakhpur, Muzaffarnagar, Bareilly, Gautam Buddh Nagar, Bulandshahr, Jhansi, Lakhimpur-Khiri, Jaunpur and Ghazipur.Here's what will open and what won't after restrictions are lifted:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-govt-relaxes-covid-curfew-in-6-more-districts-what-s-open-what-s-not-101622463380954.html
31-05-2021||India||Monsoon progress slow but IMD hopeful that it will reach Kerala on June 3||The onset of monsoon over Kerala is likely to take place around June 3, India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Monday, adding that monsoon presently was crossing Sri Lanka and had been there for two days. As per the latest meteorological indications, the southwesterly winds could strengthen gradually from June 1, resulting in an increase in rainfall over Kerala.“It has been raining over Kerala but we cannot announce monsoon onset until all parameters are met. They are likely to be met in the next couple of days. We are monitoring continuously,” M Mohapatra, director general, IMD said.“Monsoon is now over Sri Lanka. The very next point will be Kerala. Rains had reduced over Kerala in the past two days. Westerly winds are picking up now,” added DS Pai, scientist and head of climate research services at IMD Pune.Also Read | Delhi weather: Expect thunderstorm, rain today“@Indiametdept will never manipulate data or make statements to justify their forecasts. They admit forecast failures with humility. In weather & monsoon forecasts, no one can be perfect. We are also accountable to Indian tax payers. We show respect to our country,” M Rajeevan, secretary, ministry of earth sciences tweeted on Monday referring to the lag in monsoon onset compared to IMD’s forecast. IMD said on May 28 that the onset of monsoon was likely over Kerala on June 31, a day ahead of its normal date. IMD in its monsoon forecast on May 14 also predicted that monsoon is likely to arrive over Kerala on May 31 with a possible error margin of plus/minus four days. After Very Severe Cyclone Yaas weakened, scientists had said that the cyclone over Bay of Bengal had helped strengthen monsoon winds. But the monsoon’s progress slowed from May 29.“Probably we need to consider exceptional cases when cyclones occur very close to the monsoon onset, interacting with the monsoon? In such cases, a classical onset may not happen as we expect,” tweeted Roxy Mathew Koll, climate scientist, Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology.According to IMD’s monsoon onset parameters, after May 10, 60% of the available 14 stations enlisted--Minicoy, Amini, Thiruvananthapuram, Punalur, Kollam, Allapuzha, Kottayam, Kochi, Thrissur, Kozhikode, Thalassery, Kannur, Kudulu and Mangalore should report rainfall of 2.5mm or more for two consecutive days, depth of westerlies should be maintained upto 600hPa; outgoing longwave radiation (OLR) value should be below 200wm-2 ( watt per sq metre).OLR represents the total radiation going to space emitted by the atmosphere or extent of cloudiness.Southwest monsoon normally sets in over Kerala around June 1. It advances northwards, usually in surges, and covers the entire country around July 5.Skymet Weather, a private weather forecasting company, however, announced the onset of monsoon on Sunday--May 30, two days ahead of normal monsoon onset date of June 1.A cyclonic circulation over eastcentral Arabian Sea off the Karnataka coast is likely to meander over the region during the next four days. Southwesterly winds are also likely to strengthen during the next 2-3 days. Under the influence of these and other favourable meteorological conditions; scattered to fairly widespread rainfall/thunderstorm activity is likely over Karnataka and Kerala and Mahe, and isolated to scattered rainfall/thunderstorm over remaining parts of south peninsular India during the next 4-5 days.Moderate to extremely heavy rain was recorded over many parts of east and northeast India including East Garo Hills (32cm); Bhalukpong (13cm); Lakhimpur (11cm); Jamshedpur (17cm); Pollur, Tikrikilla, Dhemaji, Kolar (9cm); Barpeta (8cm); Uthiramerur, Dharamsthla, Vellore, Matheran, Shanti Niketan, Itanagar, Cherrapunji, Kokrajhar, Nongstoin (7cm) each. Extremely heavy rainfall (over 20cm) was recorded at isolated places over Assam and Meghalaya; heavy to very heavy rainfall at isolated places over Jharkhand and Arunachal Pradesh and heavy rainfall over Gangetic West Bengal, north Konkan, coastal and south Interior Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Karaikal.A western disturbance, as a trough in mid and upper tropospheric westerlies, is affecting the Western Himalayas. There is lower level moisture incursion from north Arabian Sea to the plains of northwest India and is very likely to continue during next 3-4 days. Under its influence, no significant change in maximum temperatures is likely during next 3 days. Scattered rainfall/thunderstorm activity is likely over the Western Himalayan region and adjoining plains of northwest India during next three days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monsoon-progress-slow-but-imd-hopeful-that-it-will-reach-kerala-on-june-3-101622462989610.html
31-05-2021||India||UP govt's massive Covid-19 vaccination drive begins from June 1, EWS category people to also be inoculated||The Uttar Pradesh government is launching a massive vaccination drive from June 1 to inoculate 10 million people against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in a month. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath has also given instructions to the state government officials to ensure that all the sections of the society receive a vaccine shot under 'Mission June'.The drive will be conducted in all 75 districts of the state to safeguard its people from the raging wave of Covid-19.“Our goal is to give shots to one crore people in the month of June. We have a sufficient amount of vaccine vials available to meet our target,” said the Chief Minister while addressing a high-level meeting on Monday. He also instructed the health officials to stay in constant touch with the Centre and vaccine manufacturing companies.The campaign will focus on beneficiaries of both the age groups: 18+ and those above the age of 45.The chief minister also announced a special vaccination drive for socially and economically weaker sections like drivers, vendors, and rickshaw pullers from June 15.In order to meet the target, officials in the Uttar Pradesh government say that 6,000 vaccination centres will be set up across the state.Special camps will also be set up for journalists, government employees and members of the judiciary, officials said. For this, four workplace vaccination centres will be established in each district - one for the district court, two for government employees and one for the media personnel.The state government has announced relaxations in districts which have less than 600 active cases of Covid-19. On Monday, the number of such districts was increased from 55 to 61.A UP government spokesperson said on Monday that Sonbhadra, Deoria, Baghpat, Prayagraj, Bijnore and Moradabad were added to the earlier list due to declining number of active cases in these districts.However, there 14 districts where no relaxation has been permitted by the government. These are: Meerut, Lucknow, Saharanpur, Varanasi, Ghaziabad, Gorakhpur, Muzaffarnagar, Bareilly, Gautam Buddh Nagar, Bulandshahr, Jhansi, Lakhimpur-Khiri, Jaunpur and Ghazipur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-to-inoculate-1-crore-people-in-june-drive-begins-from-tuesday-101622461354908.html
31-05-2021||India||Assam man spends 16 days in jail for a crime he didn’t commit. Cops say sorry||A 45-year-old man in Assam’s Karimganj district was arrested in a 2014 kidnapping case and spent 16 days in custody before the court figured that the police had arrested an innocent. Hussain Ahmed was released on Friday and a show cause notice issued to the police “It was an unfortunate incident and we have apologised to the family,” Karimganj police officer Shyamananda Sinha said.Hussain Ahmed hasn’t refused to speak to the media. His family said he was too traumatized by the entire episode and has been unable to find work. “”Now my son has come out and the court has declared him innocent but the society will not accept him... He is trying hard to find work but some people have already refused to take him,” his father, Ala Uddin, said. Before he was arrested, Hussain Ahmed worked as a driver with a local travel agency.Hussain Ahmed’s wife Rushna Begum said their nightmare started shortly before midnight on May 12 when a posse of police personnel turned up at their house in Karimganj’s Patharkandi village.The family was preparing for Eid celebrations when the police personnel came.“We repeatedly requested them to let him stay at home for Eid,” Rushna Begum said.“They broke down our door and caught him like he is a big criminal,” she said. “We want to tell the police not to do this to anyone in future because this ruins the lives of innocent people forever.”She said the police had apologised to the family after the court cleared him. “But this will not help us to forget the trauma of the last two weeks.”Police officer Shyamananda Sinha said the mix-up happened because the suspect and Hussain Ahmed not only had the same name but also their father’s name is the same.“When we went to the house, they also did not show us any other documents. We were doing our duty as per the warrant,” he said. Rushna Begum said the cops were unwilling to listen and didn’t tell them why he was being arrested.It turns out that the 2014 kidnapping case, in which Hussain Ahmed was arrested, was a case of elopement filed by the father of a woman who ran away with a man. The woman’s father, according to the police, subsequently reconciled to his daughter’s marriage and has accepted the couple to the family.But according to police records, he did not withdraw his complaint. “We are also trying to find the girl’s father who lodged the complaint in 2014 to identify the actual person. The department regrets this incident and we have apologised to the family,” police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-man-spends-16-days-in-jail-for-a-crime-he-didn-t-commit-cops-say-sorry-101622461309015.html
31-05-2021||India||Govt allows more withdrawal from EPFO due to Covid||The Employees’ Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO), the state-run pension fund manager, has permitted contributors to withdraw a non-refundable Covid-19 advance from their savings, the second time the EPFO has allowed such a relief measure due to the ongoing pandemic, an official statement said. The move to allow special withdrawals during the pandemic, which has led to financial distress, was first introduced in March 2020 under Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana (PMGKY), a Covid-19 aid package. Also Read | New rule for PF account holders to come into force from June 1“Under this provision, a non-refundable withdrawal to the extent of the basic wages and dearness allowances for three months or up to 75% of the amount standing to member’s credit in the EPF account, whichever is less, is provided. Members can apply for lesser amount also,” the statement released on Monday said. To process claims, the EPFO has deployed a “system driven auto-claim settlement process”. EPFO members whose “know your customer” requirements are complete can immediatelt apply for the withdrawals. Auto-mode of settlement enables the EPFO to reduce the claim settlement cycle to just three days as against the statutory requirement to settle the claims within 20 days, an official said. The facility is especially targeted for those having monthly wages of less than ₹15,000. Official figures show, cumulatively, the EPFO has settled more than 7.63 million Covid-19 advance claims, disbursing ₹18,698.15 crore in all since the facility was made available. “High advance claims and amounts suggests even employed people were highly distressed by increasing costs, mainly because of Covid-19 treatments and inflation,” said Piyush Baxi, an economist with the State Labour Institute, Bhubaneshwar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-allows-more-withdrawal-from-epfo-due-to-covid-101622460768777.html
31-05-2021||India||News updates from HT: Juhi Chawla files plea in Delhi HC against 5G technology and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Actor Juhi Chawla files plea in Delhi HC against implementation of 5G technology, hearing on June 2Actor Juhi Chawla on Monday moved the Delhi high court against implementation of 5G wireless network technology in India, raising issues related to the radiation impact on citizens, animals, flora and fauna. Read moreNational Conference reconsidering boycott of delimitation commission meetingsJammu and Kashmir National Conference party is reconsidering its earlier decision not to participate in the meetings of Delimitation Commission, which is tasked with redrawing parliamentary and assembly segments of the union territory, said senior functionaries. Read moreKejriwal working to get people of Delhi vaccinated, but BJP abusing him: SisodiaDelhi's deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Monday said that Aam Aadmi Party (AAP)-led government is ensuring that all the people in the national capital are vaccinated against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Read moreNew rule for PF account holders to come into force from June 1Employees' Provident Fund Organization (EPFO) has made some changes in their rules for Provident Fund (PF) account holders which are set to come into force from June 1, 2021. Read moreAfter 100 years remembering, last survivors mark race massacre in TulsaLessie Benningfield Randle, 106, can still remember a house engulfed in flames and the bodies stacked in truckbeds, one hundred years later. "I was quite a little kid but I remember running and the soldiers were coming in," Randle said in an interview with Reuters as her hometown of Tulsa prepared to mark one of the darkest chapters in its history. Read more'Won't stop us from completing this edition of IPL': BCCI vice-president on overseas players not being availableThe remaining matches of the Indian Premier League 2021 have officially been moved to the UAE, as BCCI announced last week. But there are various other questions still to be answered - starting from the fact when is the remainder of the tournament be fit into the schedule? Read moreKamaal R Khan calls Salman Khan ‘gunda’: ‘I promise to destroy your career and make you TV actor’Actor Kamaal R Khan, in a new tweet that seemed to be addressed to actor Salman Khan, asked him to fight his own battles instead of hiding behind ‘chirkut singer’ and ‘struggling actress’. KRK reiterated his vow to destroy Salman’s career. Read moreRakul Preet backs Yog Nidra for post Covid recovery, treating pandemic anxietyAdults, care providers and people with underlying health conditions are suffering from a considerable degree of fear, worry and concern as coronavirus continues to sweep across the world and the constant monitoring of news and social media feeds has led to fueling anxiety rather than easing it. Read moreWatch| Security forces destroy IED in controlled explosion in J&K’s Pulwama﻿||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-juhi-chawla-files-plea-in-delhi-hc-against-5g-technology-101622459075491.html
31-05-2021||India||Assam village manages to avoid Covid-19 with strict safety measures||Life in Kawoimari Gohain gaon in Assam’s Jorhat district hasn’t been the same in over a year now, courtesy the pandemic. But unlike in many other districts across the country, it hasn’t all been bad news here. The village, located around 35 km from the district headquarters, hasn’t reported a single Covid-19 case since the pandemic started early last year. Safety measures strictly enforced by the villagers are stated to be the reason for this. Spread over around 4 sq km, residents of the village were originally from Nematighat close to the Brahmaputra River. But large-scale erosion of the river’s banks following the big earthquake of 1950 forced people to move to the new location and set up Kawoimari Gohain gaon. “Our village has around 400 families and a total population of nearly 2,000. We have managed to escape the virus till now,” said Madhurjya Kakati, secretary of Kawoimari Gohain Gaon’s village defence party (VDP). Since the pandemic began, villagers have strictly complied with safety protocols such as social distancing, wearing face masks and washing hands regularly. Roads within the village have been blockaded with bamboos to prevent entry of outsiders. Banners and notices pasted all over the village urge residents to follow all safety measures and each house keeps a bucket of water and soap at the gate to allow people to wash their hands before entering. More than half of the villagers are engaged in cultivation while some are employed with government and private offices. Those who go out for work are required to follow all safety measures before returning to the village. “We have a VDP of 25 people which includes five women. We take turns to guard the entry points of the village and also check for violations within. Those flouting rules would be liable for punishment /fine as fixed by the government. We don’t see any violations by villagers,” said Kakati. Assam has enforced curfew for 17 hours daily in urban areas and 11 hours in rural areas. Educational institutions and offices are closed till the end of May and there’s a ban on inter-district movement of persons and vehicles. “Life hasn’t been same since the pandemic began as we don’t get to socialise. But we are happy that we haven’t recorded any positive case yet or lost anyone to the disease,” said Naresh Das, a teacher from the village. “We have been following the safety measures properly. There was some laxity towards the end of last year and during the recent assembly election. But with the second wave of Covid19 striking the country, everyone became cautious again. Inspired by what we are doing, some neighbouring villages have also started enforcing Covid-19 protocols,” he added. Villagers said only around 15% of those eligible have managed to vaccinated. “Kawoimari Gohain gaon hasn’t had any Covid case this year and there were no reports last year as well,” said Dr Rekha Hazarika, in-charge of Kakojan block primary health centre (BPHC) under which the village falls. Till Sunday, Assam had recorded 406,868 Covid cases and 3,300 deaths. In the past two weeks, the state has been recording around 5,000-6,000 cases and 70-80 deaths daily.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-village-manages-to-avoid-covid-19-with-strict-safety-measures-101622459929095.html
31-05-2021||India||'India may start testing effects of mixed Covid-19 vaccines in a few weeks': Govt panel head||India may soon start testing an immunisation routine that mixes two different types of Covid-19 vaccines, in order to see if it helps enhance immune response to the virus, Dr NK Arora, chairman of Covid-19 working group under National Technical Advisory Group on Immunization (NTAGI), told news agency ANI.“India may soon start in a few weeks testing feasibility of a regimen that mixes two different doses of Covid vaccines to see if it helps boost immune response to virus,” ANI said quoting Arora.Dr Rajib Dasgupta, chairperson of the Centre of Social Medicine and Community Health at Jawaharlal Nehru University, told the news agency on May 28 that a study on the effects of combining two different vaccines is being conducted. Dasgupta added that only a few initial results are available from across the world, and none are final results."The combination of vaccines is still under investigation and research. The potential mixing of what we call a homologous boost... homologous combination boost are vaccines that have similar mechanisms or similar platforms. Only one or two initial results are available from the trials across the world but those are interim results and not final results," he said.The United Kingdom initiated a study of the potential effects of mixing two different types of vaccines in April 2021, under the aegis of Oxford Vaccine Group’s Com-Cov vaccine trial, which seeks to research on combining vaccines. The Com-Cov study combined an adenovirus vaccine, AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine, with an mRNA technology based one, Moderna or Novavax vaccines. Adults over 50 who had been inoculated with their first dose were invited to participate in the study. This combination of two vaccines using different platforms (adenovirus and mRNA) is called a ‘heterologous boost’ and immunologists believe many heterologous boost may indeed help in enhancing efficiency of certain vaccines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-may-start-testing-effects-of-mixed-covid-19-vaccines-in-a-few-weeks-govt-panel-head-101622458363838.html
31-05-2021||India||National Conference reconsidering boycott of delimitation commission meetings||Jammu and Kashmir National Conference party is reconsidering its earlier decision not to participate in the meetings of Delimitation Commission, which is tasked with redrawing parliamentary and assembly segments of the union territory, said senior functionaries.NC spokesman Imran Nabi Dar said party president Farooq Abdullah along with some other senior leaders of the party will take a decision on the matter.“In the virtual meeting of party leadership last week it was decided that Dr Farooq Abdullah along with senior leaders will take a final call on this issue,” he said on Monday and added that “no committee will be formed on this matter”.Recently, in a virtual meeting, Farooq Abdullah and vice president Omar Abdullah interacted with party leaders from both the provinces of the UT and also revisited the earlier decision not to participate in the meetings of the delimitation commission considering it to be a useless and illegal exercise until Article 370 was restored and Jammu and Kashmir was again made a state.In the meeting, many leaders suggested that NC parliament members, Farooq Abdullah, (Srinagar), Akbar Lone (Baramulla) and Hasnain Masoodi (Anantnag) should take part in the future meetings of the commission and shouldn’t give the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) “an open field” to “manipulate” things during the delimitation process of the erstwhile state.Jammu and Kashmir’s special status under the Indian Constitution was abrogated in August 2019 by revocation of Article 370 and the state was divided into two union territories of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh by a resolution passed in the parliament. The delimitation commission is now busy with the process to redraw parliamentary and assembly segments in the 20 districts of the UT.A senior NC leader said that there is now a strong possibility that NC MPs will take part in the future meetings of the commission.”Though everybody wants restoration of all the laws that have been snatched [away] from us, but the skipping of [the] meeting will only help [the] BJP; and the party wants to prevent that,” he said. Most Srinagar based political outfits were opposed to the delimitation exercise.The commission was set up by the Central law ministry on March 6, 2020, under Section 3 of the Delimitation Act 2002, the Delimitation Commission for J&K with the mandate to redraw the constituencies of the UT of Jammu and Kashmir in accordance with the provisions under the Jammu and Kashmir Reorganization Act 2019, which bifurcated the state into union territories of J&K and Ladakh. The NC had earlier said that its parliament members had conveyed to the commission their reasons for skipping the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/national-conference-reconsidering-boycott-of-delimitation-commission-meetings-101622458548621.html
31-05-2021||India||New rule for PF account holders to come into force from June 1. Check details here||Employees' Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) has made some changes in their rules for Provident Fund (PF) account holders which are set to come into force from June 1, 2021.The employer has now been tasked with the responsibility of ensuring that their employees link their PF account to their Aadhaar cards, and failure to do so will result in the employer's contribution being stopped from going into the employee's account.The ministry of labour and employment has mandated that the 12-digit Aadhaar number has to be provided by employees and unorganised sector workers who are seeking registration, benefits or expect to receive any payment under various schemes under section 142 of Social Security Code 2020. The ministry issued a notification in this regard on May 3."Now, we will start asking for Aadhaar numbers from beneficiaries under the Social Security Code. This is also required for our database for unorganised sector workers, including migrant workers. However the delivery of services under various social security schemes would not be denied due to non-submission of Aadhaar," labour secretary Apurva Chandra told PTI.The main purpose behind the move, said the ministry, is to create a database of workers employed in the unorganised sector. Section 142 deals with establishing the identity of employees and unorganised workers through Aadhaar number for availing benefits and services under the Social Security Code.EPFO has notified employers that come June 1, if PF accounts are not linked to Aadhaar, then the ECR (electronic challan-cum-return) will not be filled. Employees can continue to make contributions to their PF account but their employer's share will not be deposited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-rule-for-pf-account-holders-to-come-into-force-from-june-1-check-details-here-101622454921844.html
31-05-2021||India||‘For Amma’s soul, Sasikala should stay away’: AIADMK senior leader||A day after V K Sasikala’s audio tapes leaked, signalling her intention of a political comeback, the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam’s (AIADMK) co-convener K P Munusamy doubted if she will ever be accepted in the party and suggested that Sasikala should keep away from the party for the sake of late J Jayalalithaa, who worked hard to bring it up.“If Amma’s soul has to be in peace, it is better [that] she (Sasikala) keeps quiet and keeps away,” Munusamy said. He also warned her of “retribution” if she chose to fight for regaining control of the party she headed briefly after Jayalalithaa’s demise in December 2016.“There is no circumstance under which she can enter the party. There is no possibility... Every single AIADMK cadre is clear about it,” he added.Sasikala was ousted as the AIADMK general secretary in August 2017 after her conviction in the disproportionate assets case in February that year. She returned to Chennai in February this year to a grand welcome after serving her term in a Bengaluru jail, nearly three months before the Tamil Nadu assembly elections. In March, she said she would step away from politics.She currently has support of her nephew TTV Dhinakaran, who had formed his own political outfit AMMK after his expulsion from AIADMK in 2017. It was widely speculated that Sasikala will wait for the outcome of the assembly elections before making her next move. After the AIADMK lost power to rival DMK in the assembly polls in election results announced on May 3 earlier this month, Sasikala’s audio tape-- where she is heard telling some AIADMK cadres that she will soon return to “set everything right” in the party--has emerged. The audio tape also suggests that “a group” within the AIADMK still supports her.Munusamy claimed that some forces were trying to cause “confusion” in the AIADMK ranks by using Sasikala in the “forefront” at a time when AIADMK was performing its function as the main opposition party in Tamil Nadu assembly.“Not a single AIADMK cadre will fall for this confusion. Their intention will not come true. I also listened to the audio clips. No cadre has spoken to her. She’s the one who is calling them,” Munusamy said. The Sasikala audio tape comes at a time when the AIADMK is said to be witnessing a turf war between the party’s two top leaders—co-coordinator Edappadi Palanisami and coordinator O Panneerselvam. Panneerselvam is believed to be more amenable to Sasikala’s return to the party provided she accepted the present hierarchy.In the audio tapes, leaked on Sunday, Sasiakala is also heard saying she will not watch a party they had built with difficulties go to waste while referring to the rift between Palaniswami and Panneerselvam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/for-amma-s-soul-sasikala-should-stay-away-aiadmk-senior-leader-101622455188538.html
31-05-2021||India||LPG price, ITR filing, gold hallmarking: Changes coming into effect from June 1||Several policy and schemes, which will impact common people, are set to witness changes from June 1. These include pricing of LPG cylinder, a new interface of income tax department's website where returns are filed, hallmarking of gold and interest on small savings.Additionally, the countrywide lockdown will start easing in several states like Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and Delhi, paving way for more economical activities and opening up of institutions, manufacturing factories and construction work.New PF rulesIf you are employed, then this news is very useful for you. The EPFO has changed the rules for Provident Fund account holders. According to the new rule, now the employer is required to link every employee's account with the Aadhaar card from June 1.Price of LPG cylinder may go upIn the new month, the price of LPG can also be changed drastically. Oil companies announce these prices every month. At present, the price of 14.2 kg gas cylinder in Delhi is ₹809. Indications from the rise in fuel prices, it is likely that the price of gas can be increased from 50 to 100 rupees per cylinder.Air travel to become expensiveAir travel will become expensive from June 1. The central government has approved hiking the minimum limit of airfare to 16 per cent. The airfare limit has been increased from 13 to 16 per cent. This increase will be effective from June 1. The Ministry of Civil Aviation has said in an order that no increase in the upper fare limit has been made.Change in interest rates of small savings schemeIn March, the interest rates of government schemes such as PPF, NSC, Sukanya Samriddhi Yojana were changed, but then the government withdrew its order stating that it was an oversight error on the part of Centre. The decision of the government was then seen to be linked to the polls in five Indian states. This is also expected to be changed from June 1. However, the new rates are applicable till 30 June.Bank of Baroda Payment ProcessBank of Baroda is going to make big changes in cheque payment rules from June 1. The bank is implementing 'Positive Pay Confirmation' from first date of next month. However, for the convenience of customers, the bank has said that the rule of 'positive pay confirmation' will be applicable only on payments above 50 thousand. According to the information given on the bank's website, now the issuer of the cheque will have to give the information of the beneficiaries in advance. The bank believes that this will take less time. Additionally, the move is expected to tackle cheque frauds.Gold hallmarking rulesThe central government has now moved the mandatory hallmarking deadline of gold jewelery and artifacts to June 15 due to Covid-19 pandemic. The decision was taken in a meeting chaired by consumer affairs minister Piyush Goyal. It was earlier expected to be implemented from June 1. The traders associated with the trade union Confederation of All India Traders and the jewelery industry had asked the government to extend the date for the introduction of hallmarking. Given the current situation, the government has accepted their demand.ITR's new websiteMarking a significant change in Income Tax return filing, the existing website www.incometaxindiaefilling.gov.in will not be functional from June 1 to 6. The new website www.incometaxgov.in will be launched by the government on June 7. The new website will be advanced as well as user friendly as compared to the earlier, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lpg-price-itr-filing-gold-hallmarking-changes-coming-into-effect-from-june-1-101622447596722.html
31-05-2021||India||Daily Covid-19 recoveries outnumber fresh cases for 18th consecutive day||The single-day Covid-19 recoveries in India outnumbered daily cases for the 18th day in a row on Friday, the Union ministry of health and family welfare said on Monday. As many as 2,38,022 recoveries were registered in the previous 24 hours, taking the cumulative recoveries to 25,692,342, the health ministry dashboard showed.The country's overall tally now stands at 28,047,534 and while the death toll touched 329,100 after 152,734 fresh cases of infection and 3128 fatalities were reported on Monday.The active cases have further reduced to 20,26,092, comprising 7.22% of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate touched to 91.6%.On the vaccination front, the authorities have inoculated more than 213.1 million. A total of 21,31,54,129 doses have been administered through 30,28,295 sessions, according to the provisional report till 7am on Monday. More than 2,73,900 vaccine doses are in the pipeline and will be received by the states/UTs within the next three-days.Amid the rising number of Covid-19 cases, several states including Maharashtra, Bihar and Andhra Pradesh extended lockdown or lockdown-like curbs to check the spread of the infection.In the national capital, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal extended the lockdown till June 7 while providing some relaxation to the construction sector and factories to resume operations. "We have to remember that the fight against Covid-19 is still not over. We have to make sure that things do not go bad again. To ensure this, the relaxations have to be introduced in a phased way," said the chief minister Friday.Earlier in the day, Kejriwal informed that Delhi is likely to receive the first consignment of Sputnik V, the Russian Covid-19 vaccine, in June, while stressing that vaccination is the key to fight against the coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/daily-covid-19-recoveries-outnumber-fresh-cases-for-18th-consecutive-day-101622453213834.html
31-05-2021||India||Actor Juhi Chawla files plea in Delhi HC against implementation of 5G technology, hearing on June 2||Actor Juhi Chawla on Monday moved the Delhi high court against implementation of 5G wireless network technology in India, raising issues related to the radiation impact on citizens, animals, flora and fauna. The petition has claimed that 5G will lead to RF exposure to all the living beings on earth which will be 100 times more than the current level and lead to serious, irreversible effects on humans.Justice C Hari Shankar, before whom the matter came up for hearing, transferred the suit to another bench for hearing on June 2.The actor said while she is not against the implementation of technological advancements, "we have sufficient reason to believe that the radiation is extremely harmful and injurious to the health and safety of the people."Her petition, filed through advocate Deepak Khosla, has cited clinical and experimental evidence of damage to DNA, cells and organ systems in plants and animals to state the major diseases of modern civilization - cancer, heart disease and diabetes - are, in large part, caused by electromagnetic pollution which is generated by wireless mobile phone technology.In a statement, Juhi Chawla's spokesperson said, "The present suit is being instituted, in order to seek a direction from this Hon'ble court to the arrayed defendants, to certify to us and, therefore, to the public at large, that 5G technology is safe to human kind, man, woman, adult, child, infant, animals and every type of living organism, to flora, to fauna."The statement also asked the direction to produce studies done in this regard.Earlier this month, the Department of Telecom (DoT) approved applications of telecom companies Reliance Jio, Bharti Airtel, Vodafone Idea and MTNL to conduct 5G trials in India. The companies have been asked to conduct the trials without Chinese technology or entities, as per government order.Bharti Airtel, Reliance Jio and Vodafone Idea have been given trial spectrum for six month to test 5G technology in the country. State-owned telecom firm MTNL will also join the trial soon.Telecom operators have been allocated spectrum in 700 Mhz band, 3.3-3.6 gigahertz (Ghz) band and 24.25-28.5 Ghz band across various locations.The trials will be conducted at various locations including Delhi, Mumbai, Kolkata, Bengaluru, Gujarat and Hyderabad.During the trials, application of 5G in Indian settings will get tested. This includes tele-medicine, tele-education and drone-based agriculture monitoring. Telecom operators will be able to test various 5G devices on their network.According to DoT, 5G technology is expected to deliver 10 times better download speed than that of 4G and up to three times greater spectrum efficiency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/juhi-chawla-files-plea-in-delhi-hc-against-5g-technology-hearing-on-june-2-101622453187587.html
31-05-2021||India||Odisha's Covid-19 caseload nearing 765,000; 8,313 new cases reported||Odisha on Monday registered 8,313 new Covid-19 cases, which took the tally in the coastal state to 764,997, a health department official said.The death toll rose to 2,754 as 35 more people succumbed to the disease in the state, he said.Of the new cases, 4,655 were reported from quarantine centres and the remaining 3,658 detected during contact tracing.Khurda district, which comprises the state capital Bhubaneswar, registered the maximum number of fresh cases at 974, followed by Cuttack (593), Mayurbhanj (532), Angul (505), Sundargarh (465), Balasore (452) and Dhenkanal (407).The remaining new cases were reported from several other districts.Taking to Twitter, the Health and Family Welfare Department said, "Regret to inform the demise of thirty-five Covid positive patients while under treatment in hospitals."Angul accounted for five fresh fatalities, while three each were reported from Cuttack, Kalahandi, Kendrapara, Khurda, Nabarangpur and Subarnapur and two each from Deogarh, Gajapati, Ganjam, Jharsuguda and Sundargarh.One Covid patient each succumbed to the infection in Nayagarh and Nuapada, the official said.Fifty-three other Covid-19 patients have also died in the state due to comorbidities, he said.Odisha now has 91,663 active cases.At least 11,881 people were cured of the disease on Sunday, taking the total number of recoveries in the state to 6,70,527.The state has so far conducted over 1.17 crore sample tests for Covid-19, including 61,613 on Sunday, and the positivity rate stands at 6.5 per cent.Chief Secretary S C Mohapatra and the health department's Additional Chief Secretary PK Mohapatra on Monday visited Nabarangpur and Koraput districts to review the Covid situation there.The chief secretary said the test positivity ratio in Nabarangpur has declined to 13 per cent from 20 per cent recorded recently, while the district has got an RT-PCR machine which will be operational very shortly.An oxygen plant at the district headquarters hospital will start working in the next three months, he said.Along with the collector and other senior officers of the district, the two senior bureaucrats visited a Covid hospital and enquired about the functioning of the ICU there and the construction of a 200-bed ward.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odishas-covid-19-caseload-nearing-765-000-8-313-new-cases-reported-101622452353790.html
31-05-2021||India||Andhra Pradesh govt extends Covid-19 curfew till June 10||The Andhra Pradesh government on Monday announced that it has extended the Covid-19 curfew in the state till June 10."Curfew extended till June 10th in Andhra Pradesh. Timings remain the same," informed Chief Minister's Office.The curfew was scheduled to end today. Now the restrictions have been extended by 10 more days. The relaxation time remains the same from 6 am to 12 noon.According to the state health department, Andhra Pradesh reported 13,400 new Covid-19 cases, 21,133 recoveries and 94 deaths in the 24 hours on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-pradesh-govt-extends-covid-19-curfew-till-june-10-101622452659851.html
31-05-2021||India||Woman raped on way home from hospital in Assam; 2 detained||Police in Assam’s Charaideo district detained two persons on Monday in connection with the alleged abduction, rape of a woman last week while she was walking home from hospital after testing negative for Covid. According to the police, the incident occurred on May 27 when the woman, who is in her 40s and belongs to the tea-tribe community, was abducted by two persons and raped. Her daughter, around 18-20 years of age, managed to escape.Some reports say the women, both of whom had tested negative for Covid after spending a week in the hospital, were forced to walk home after they were denied an ambulance by the authorities. HT couldn’t independently verify this. “The incident took place around 7pm on May 27. The woman was abducted by two persons who later raped her inside a tea-garden. Her daughter managed to flee...We were informed about the incident on May 29,” said Sudhakar Singh, superintendent of police, Charaideo. “Based on the information provided by the survivor and our investigation, we picked up two persons on Monday morning in connection with the incident. More details will be available after their interrogation,” he added. The woman’s medical examination report is awaited. The women were discharged from Sapekhati Model Hospital in the district. Officials denied allegations that their request to spend the night at the hospital (as curfew was underway) was turned down by hospital authorities, forcing them to walk home. Also Read | 3.8 magnitude quake hits Assam’s Tezpur, second in less than 24 hoursHealth officials in Charaideo also maintained that as per the state government guidelines, hospitals are not required to provide ambulances to those who have recovered from Covid. “Our guidelines don’t require allotment of ambulances to Covid patients to go home after testing negative [and] the women didn’t ask to be allowed to spend the night in the hospital,” said Dr Nizara Devi, joint director health, Charaideo. “It’s a government hospital and they could have easily stayed here for a night, if they had asked. Even the woman’s husband had spent a night in the hospital after his test report came negative (as he couldn’t return home due to curfew). We are conducting an inquiry into the allegations,” she added. In Assam, curfew is enforced in urban areas from 12pm to 5am daily. In rural areas, curfew is imposed from 2pm to 5am daily. The Opposition, Congress, blamed the state government for the incident and said that despite assurances by chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma about safety of women being the government’s top priority, such crimes were taking place frequently. “The mother- daughter were left to fend for themselves when lockdown was in place. Wasn’t it the responsibility of the hospital and local authorities to see that the woman and her daughter reached home safely?” Bobbeeta Sharma, in-charge of Assam Congress media department, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/woman-raped-on-way-home-from-hospital-in-assam-2-detained-101622451528215.html
31-05-2021||India||Pandemic effect: SpiceJet to pay employees based on work hours||With the second wave of Covid-19 severely impacting the aviation sector all over again, low cost carrier SpiceJet has decided to go back to their structure of paying the employees according to their working hours.In an email sent out to its employees on Sunday, the airline stated that India is currently going through one of the worst Covid-19 outbreaks in the world and passenger traffic has fallen to under 10% of pre-Covid levels.“Much like last year, the second wave of Covid-19 has hit the Indian aviation industry the hardest, but this time the impact has been much more severe especially on our industry. During this second wave the passenger traffic has fallen to less than 10% as compared to the pre-Covid levels,” read the email.Also Read | Second wave: Airlines, DGCA help staff fight anxiety, fearEffective June 1, the Ministry of Civil Aviation (MoCA) has also capped the capacity for domestic flights from 80% to 50%. Moreover, according to civil aviation regulator Directorate General of Civil Aviation’s (DGCA) latest monthly report, domestic carriers registered 57.25 lakh air travellers in April compared with 78.22 lakh in March.“This sudden drop due to unprecedented surge in Covid cases coupled with varied travel restrictions across India has adversely affected our revenue and cash flows. It is still unknown whether the cases have peaked-out or the traffic has bottomed-out,” read the email sent by the human resource department of the airline.Announcing salary cuts, the airline stated, “Under these extreme and unavoidable circumstances which we are currently enduring, the company is reverting to the structure where employees will be paid according to the work hours contributed while maintaining basic thresholds.”SpiceJet, however, said that salaries of the lowest grade employees will not be deducted.The email read, “While the salaries for the month of May shall be credited to your bank accounts on 1 June, there will be graded deferment of up to 35% for some of our employees. The deferred amount will be released from second week of June 2021 onwards. Our colleagues in the lowest pay grades will be unaffected by this deferment and their salaries will be paid in full.”SpiceJet assured its employees that they are making efforts to return to normalcy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pandemic-effect-spicejet-to-pay-employees-based-on-work-hours-101622451468319.html
31-05-2021||India||Delhi HC issues notice to Twitter for 'non-compliance' with new IT rules||The Delhi high court on Monday issued notice to microblogging platform Twitter for its alleged non-compliance with the new information technology rules. The court was hearing a plea filed by advocate Amit Acharya who alleged Twitter’s non-compliance to Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Ethics Code) Rules 2021 which came into effect on May 25. The bench of Justice Rekha Palli gave Twitter three weeks to reply and posted the matter for hearing on July 6.The new guidelines require companies like Twitter, WhatsApp, Facebook, and Google to regulate their content, appoint grievance officers who will be liable for compliance, and adopt measures like tracing of individual messages and voluntary user verification.Senior advocate Sajan Poovaya appearing for Twitter told the court that a resident grievance officer had been appointed on May 28. The government's counsel Ripudaman Bhardwaj opposed this stand. The petitioner told the court that he came to know of Twitter's non-compliance when he went to lodge a complaint against some tweets.A war of words had ensued between Twitter and the Centre recently over the new IT rules, with Twitter stating that it will continue “to advocate for changes to elements of these regulations that inhibit free, open public conversation”.Other social media platforms like WhatsApp have filed a petition in Delhi High Court alleging that the new rules violate the fundamental right to privacy. Google CEO Sundar Pichai told reporters that Google advocates for free and open internet, adding that the company respects local legislative processes but pushes back when the need arises.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-hc-issues-notice-to-twitter-for-non-compliance-to-new-it-rules-101622450194333.html
31-05-2021||India||Tripura teachers are saving lives doubling up as Covid-19 warriors||Biplab Saha’s life as a school teacher in Tripura has undergone a sea change since he first came to terms with online teaching following closure of schools due to a nationwide lockdown, clamped to contain Covid-19 pandemic last year. It changed further this year, when deployed as a Covid warrior at Tripura’s first Covid war room in Sepahijala district, he realised his words of encouragement and prompt service had the power to save lives of Covid-19 patients under home isolation. “I usually ask about the well-being of Covid-19 patients in home isolation from the Covid war room. We think it is a social service we are doing in the pandemic,” Saha said and added, “We call a patient at least five times within a gap of half-an-hour or an hour if they don’t pick up calls. We want to ensure not a single patient goes unattended.”Saha is a social science teacher at Rangapania English Medium High School in Sepahijala district. He says he realises that his work at the war room is even more important than spending time with his 16 months’ old twins at home. “My wife gives me full support to do my work. I, too, maintain hygiene at home to ensure we are all protected from the disease,” Saha said. Many other teachers like Saha feel satisfied serving Covid-19 patients when they could have instead stayed within the comfort of their homes. So far, over 1,200 teachers from the state have been roped-in for different Covid-19 related duties. Dr. Mizanur Rehman, who also teaches political science at KK Nagar Higher Secondary School in Sepahijala district, feels the pandemic gave him the opportunity to serve humanity. “In this situation, we got a chance to help these patients in their hour of emergency. Besides medical problems, we even attend to many social problems they face during these times,” said Dr. Rehman, who has been assigned the job to address any problems faced by Covid patients during home isolation through intervention by administration, hospitals or any other social organisations. He recalled how his intervention helped rush a Covid patient-- who suddenly complained of breathlessness late at night-- to a hospital in time, perhaps saving his life. “Many patients call me even after my duty hours. I never get tired of listening to their issues. I, myself, got to learn many things in this period,” said Rehman. On May 9, the Covid War Room (CWR) at Sepahijala district was the first such facility to be set up with 37 school teachers on deputation. It provides the much needed 24x7 monitoring and support mechanism apart from regular healthcare involving screening, testing and treatment at Covid treatment facilities, said Sepahijala district magistrate Vishwasree B. Later, two other Covid war rooms led by district education officers were started in the West district on May 11 and in Dhalai district on May 17. 54 teachers were deputed in the West district war room and another 30 in the Dhalai district. They are divided into teams tasked with tracking all incoming passengers in the districts, monitoring home isolation patients and addressing grievances, if any. They notify administration, ambulances, doctors, ration and medical shops based on the patients’ needs. “Currently, we have three Covid war rooms that coordinate with Covid control rooms in all the eight districts. We are introducing more Covid war rooms in the remaining five districts at the earliest. Besides, a total of 227 teachers are involved in Covid control rooms and another 1,195 are engaged in Covid-19 vaccination centres,” said education minister Ratan Lal Nath. Forty eight years old Haradhan Saha lost his social activist wife last December and now lives with his only son. A government teacher since September 1996, Saha has been consumed by the service he is doing.“I came to know many unknown facts about Covid-19 after I joined the Covid war room since I even had to counsel some nervous patients besides inquiring about their well-being,” Saha, a science teacher in Naogaon High School in West district, says. He monitors 100 patients daily.Saha says he has now a list of social organisations who deliver food and medicines to the doorsteps of needy Covid-19 patients. He sometimes delivers food and vegetables to Covid-19 patients himself in his immediate neighbourhood. A female Covid-19 survivor feels there is a need for more such Covid war rooms to help the patients cope with the many challenges associated with the disease including the emotional ones. “The initiative is very nice. Since the number of patients is on the rise in the state, especially in the West district, I feel more Covid war rooms should come up,” she said, in recognition of the difference made by the 1,200 strong force of Tripura’s school teachers turned Covid warriors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-teachers-are-saving-lives-doubling-up-as-covid-19-warriors-101622449548299.html
31-05-2021||India||Mamata and her battle against Union government over bureaucrats||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee informed Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday that her government “cannot release, and is not releasing, its Chief Secretary Alapan Bandopadhyay at this critical hour”, pointing out that the top bureaucrat, who was due to retire today, has been given a three-month extension to help manage the cyclone and Covid situation in the state. Staging a battle against the Union government over a bureaucrat is not new for the CM, and also not without a reason, say Trinamool leaders. In 2019 February, Banerjee organised a sit-in demonstration after CBI officers went to Kolkata police commissioner Rajeev Kumar’s residence to interrogate him in Saradha chit fund case. Banerjee backed Kumar to the hilt and even reinstated him after she swept the recently concluded assembly polls in Bengal. During her 10 years as the CM, she had often refused to send IAS or IPS officers on deputation, citing shortage of civil servants in her state. On one occasion, Banerjee even furnished data to show several posts for civil servants lying vacant and wanted the Centre not to call bureaucrats for central postings. But the two incidents—over Rajeev Kumar and Alapan Bandopadhyay—underline Banerjee’s staunch support for key bureaucrats (both are considered professionally very close to the CM) as well as trying to assert her authority on all matters related to Bengal. Saugata Ray, former UPA minister and Trinamool MP, said, “The CM must have control over the administration. Otherwise, how would she run the government? Her decision to defy the Centre’s directive in the case of Alapan shows that she wants to run the state with political as well as administrative authority.” Also Read | In Bengal, a political battle over cyclone relief erupts, againTrinamool Congress leaders maintain that Mamata wants to turn this into an issue of federalism and an avenue of attack against PM Modi. “Rajeev Kumar and Alapan Bandopadhyay’s cases are completely different. Rajeev was facing charges. But Banerjee stood for both of them. This is her way to assert her position,” said a leader.Banerjee has also made Bandopadhyay’s transfer row into a political battle, an area where she is more comfortable to take on the mighty Centre. At a press conference, she attacked the NDA brass for taking revenge for the loss in West Bengal polls and even wondered if Bandopadhyay is being harassed for being a Bengali. Bandopadhyay found himself in the centre of a political storm after the BJP alleged that Banerjee deliberately kept the PM waiting and later didn’t attend a review meeting chaired by Modi in Bengal. Banerjee rejected the allegations and said she wanted to meet the PM exclusively, but no time was allotted. After the Centre recalled Bandopadhyay and asked him to report to Department of Personnel and Training, Banerjee backed him and refused to adhere to Centre’s directive. There wasn’t an immediate reaction from the Centre on Banerjee’s letter to the PM.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cant-send-cs-back-mamata-banerjee-writes-to-pmmodi-101622449068179.html
31-05-2021||India||Delhi HC rejects drug controller’s report on Gautam Gambhir over hoarding case||The Delhi High Court on Monday slammed the drug controller's status report on Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Gautam Gambhir into the allegation that he and others hoarded essential medicines to treat patients of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Dismissing the report as "trash," the court said that there is no legal basis for it."We reject it here... If you are not being able to do it, then we will get it done by someone else," it said while hearing the public interest litigation (PIL) seeking a first information report (FIR) against Gambhir and others involved in the matter.Also Read | Please smell the coffee: Supreme Court tells govt over vaccination policy“There is a fundamental error of approach. The manner in which you have conducted the investigation is questionable. You have not examined that as to how a large quantities of drug was given when it was not sought by to the doctor,” the court said. “You haven't done any exercise on the aspect of as to how such a large consignment of the drug was supplied to the foundation which wasn't a dealer,” it added."How could such a large stock be given to a foundation which is not a medical practitioner, " the court questioned, adding, "We dare say it is not permissible."The court also said that the tendency of people taking advantage and "trying to appear as saviour should be denounced." "If this happens again. We know how to deal with it. But the gentleman has to realise. You need to be mindful of the strips you're taking," it said referring to Gautam Gambhir.On May 7, the high court directed Delhi Police to investigate the allegations of hoarding of oxygen cylinders and medicines like Fabiflu, acting on a plea by Deepak Singh. However, after days of probing the matter, the police cleared Gambhir and nine others including BV Srinivas, the president of the Indian Youth Congress (IYC), the BJP's Harish Khurana and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader Dilip Pandey.Following this, the high court ordered Delhi's drug controller to conduct an independent probe into the allegations. "There is a fundamental error of approach. The manner in which you have conducted the investigation is questionable," the court also said. "You have not examined that as to how a large quantity of the drugs was given when it was not sought by the doctor," it added.However, Gambhir has denied any wrongdoing and claimed that the Gautam Gambhir Foundation had organised a free medical camp between April 22 and May 7 to provide assistance to people suffering from Covid-19. The cricketer-turned-politician said that the camp was organised by a doctor, who had volunteered his services.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-hc-rejects-drug-controller-s-report-on-gautam-gambhir-over-hoarding-case-101622447232965.html
31-05-2021||India||News updates from HT: Children face cyber sexual abuse as they turn to digital devices and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.As they turn to digital devices, children face enhanced cyber sexual harassmentWhen a 14-year-old girl’s parents in Delhi’s Shahdara district bought her a mobile phone last year to facilitate her online classes, a result of the restrictions imposed on schools to curb the spread of the pandemic, little did they realise the possible social media abuse she may be subjected to. Read MoreUP mulls rigorous curbs in 20 districts with more than 600 active casesThe Uttar Pradesh government said it was considering rigorous enforcement of existing Covid-19 restrictions in 20 districts with more than 600 active Covid cases. Read MoreWoman Maoist carrying reward of ₹2 lakh killed in Chhattisgarh’s DantewadaA suspected woman Maoist carrying a reward of ₹2 lakh on her head was gunned down by the security forces in Chhattisgarh’s Dantewada district on Monday. Read MoreMeet Praharsh Parikh, the 19-year-old boy who bowled MS DhoniFollowing the Indian cricket team's practice session can be a riveting affair. Read MoreArjun Kapoor on celebrities getting trolled for charity: ‘We are humans, there is no right or wrong’Arjun Kapoor, who has earlier talked about investing his life’s savings into online fundraising platform Fankind, reacted to the criticism faced by celebrities for their humanitarian ventures. Read MoreBMW X7 M50d ‘Dark Shadow’ Edition launched in India at ₹2.02 croreBMW has launched the new X7 M50d ‘Dark Shadow’ Edition SUV in India today at a price of ₹2.02 crore. Read MoreShilpa Shetty aces Yoga’s Mandukasana to focus on ‘second brain’, positive vibeFitness enthusiasts have been eagerly waiting for early morning Yoga sessions with Shilpa Shetty Kundra every Monday and after her family recovered from Covid-19, the diva is back with rejuvenated zeal to boost workout motivation in fans. Read More'This is epic!': Courteney Cox re-enacts The Routine from FRIENDS with Ed SheeranWhen the Friends Reunion special was aired on May 27, all the fans went through an emotional and delightful roller coaster full of re-enactments of some noteworthy scenes of the popular sitcom. Read MoreDid Odisha feel ignored amid Mamata-Modi cyclone tussle? Top official answersOdisha’s Special Relief Commissioner Pradeep Kumar Jena shared details of Cyclone Yaas' review meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-children-face-cyber-sexual-abuse-as-they-turn-to-digital-devices-and-all-the-latest-news-101622443757039.html
31-05-2021||India||In Bengal, a political battle over cyclone relief erupts, again||On May 28, two days after Cyclone Yaas inflicted heavy damage in the coastal districts and Sunderban delta of West Bengal, chief minister (CM) Mamata Banerjee, while taking stock of the situation in South 24 Parganas, warned district officials to ensure that there were no complaints in relief operations.“Last time, we had given enough (relief). But because of one or two incidents, we had to face a lot of ignominy. It should not happen this time,” the CM said at a post-cyclone review meeting at Sagar. Banerjee appeared to referring to the allegations of massive corruption and nepotism that her party had to face in the aftermath of cyclone Amphan, which had ravaged the state in May 2020.With three coastal districts and more than 100 islands in the Sunderban delta, the state is prone to cyclones that originate over the Bay of Bengal. West Bengal has been hit by at least four such cyclones in the recent past – Aila (2009), Bulbul (2019), Amphan (2020) and Yaas (2021).Every time a cyclone devastates the coastal districts and the Sunderbans, thousands of crore are pumped in by both the Central and the state government. Allegations of corruption, mismanagement and nepotism surface soon after, as if they have become synonymous. And while the current focus is on the Central-state battle over the recall of the chief secretary, at the root of it lies a recurring tension between the ruling and the Opposition party over issues of allocation of relief, the state of embankments, and central funds.Also Watch | Cyclone Yaas: How Odisha evacuated 700,000 people in less than 24 hours“The more the devastation, the larger is the fund that is pumped in for relief and reconstruction and the more serious are the allegations of corruption. It happened when Aila had struck in May 2009 during Left Front regime. It happened even a decade later when Amphan hit in May 2020 during Trinamool Congress (TMC) regime. Nothing has changed,” said Subhash Acharya, former joint director of the Sunderban Development Board.The allocation of relief Soon after the relief operations started in the aftermath of cyclone Amphan in May 2020, complaints poured in that the compensation never reached the actual victims. Clashes broke out in cyclone-hit villages, as it surfaced that local TMC leaders were benefited the most. In some areas, women were at the forefront of the protests.“I didn’t get a single penny as relief even though my hut was completely damaged. Neither did many others like me in the village. But there are some people who received money even though they didn’t suffer any loss. They were close to the ruling party,” said Madhusudan Mondol, a villager of Satjelia.With less than a year left for the crucial assembly elections of 2021, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) grabbed the opportunity and turned it into a major poll issue. Words like “Chal chor” (paddy thief) and “Tirpal chor” (tarpaulin thief) were coined to attack the TMC on allegations of corruption during the relief operations.The TMC dismissed the allegations. But it clearly has had an impact, for the party does not want to confront the same perception again.“The CM has directed us to ensure there is no shortage of relief materials – water, food, medicines and tarpauline. There is no harm if someone gets two tarpauline instead of one. But there shouldn’t be any complaint this time,” said a district magistrate.Also Read | Need to revisit growth path amid climate crisisBut the BJP is not convinced that there has been any change. “BJP workers and supporters are not being allowed to enter rescue shelters. They aren’t getting any relief, which are being provided by the state government. We are organising relief materials from the party for them. In some areas, our workers and leader are being attacked when they are going to provide relief,” said Dilip Ghosh, BJP’s state president.Politics of embankment Preliminary assessments carried out by district officials within 48 hours after cyclone Yaas revealed that embankments were damaged in at least 134 places. This irked the CM because officials pointed out many of the embankments which were breached this time were repaired barely a year ago after cyclone Amphan had hit the state.“I can’t allow government money to go down the drain every year. Embankments made out of mud are being damaged every year and the money is going into some people’s pockets,” she said, while directing the finance department to check which embankments were repaired after Amphan and how many were damaged this time.At least 160 km of river embankments and four kilometres of sea dykes were damaged by cyclone Amphan which had hit Bengal on May 20. After the cyclone, Banerjee had said that she would write a letter to the NITI Ayog to send an expert team and find some permanent solution. Nothing moved however.Way back in May 2009, when cyclone Aila had hit the Sunderbans, out of the total girdle of 3,122 km, embankments maintained by the state irrigation department of around 778 km got washed away or severely damaged. The then Manmohan Singh government pumped in more than ₹5,000 crore for repairing the embankments based on a report prepared by an expert committee formed by the government. But only around 20% - 25% work could be done. A substantial portion of the money went back to the Centre as embankments were not repaired for various land related problems.“A vicious cycle exists in the Sunderbans which involves local politicians, engineers and contractors. They thrive on the funds that come in for the regular repair of the embankments. This has been going on for decades, else why would the villagers of Sunderbans suffer from the same problem year after year?” said a former official of the state irrigation department.Tussle over central funds The third recurring layer of controversy — besides the allocation of relief material and the state of embankments — is the tussle between the state and the centre over funds after a cyclone hits.This time, even before the cyclone could hit, Banerjee raised her pitch alleging that the Centre was depriving the state by allocating lesser funds to fight cyclone Yaas compared to what was being allocated for Odisha and Andhra Pradesh.“They (BJP-led centre) have announced an advance fund of ₹600 crore each to Andhra Pradesh and Odisha and a little more than ₹400 crore for West Bengal. I have questioned why Bengal was being deprived,” she said. After the cyclone, Banerjee handed over a report to Prime Minister Narendra Modi claiming that ₹20,000 crore would need to be spent to repair the damage and carry out reconstruction.Also Read | Mamata targets Modi over ‘vendetta politics’“I have submitted the report. We requested him to do what he thinks would be suitable,” she said.Prime Minister Narendra Modi, on Friday, conducted aerial survey of cyclone Yaas impacted areas in West Bengal and Odisha and later announced an immediate financial assistance of ₹1,000 crore.Can Yaas be different?This time, however, the TMC, which returned to power for the third consecutive time, despite facing massive allegations of corruption, is treading with caution. This is more so, because the Calcutta high court has already ordered an audit into allegations of corruption in relief materials after cyclone Amphan based on a PIL.Earlier this week, Banerjee pressed on finding some long term and permanent solution with concrete embankments and planting mangrove on the embankments.“Without proper study, no one can say for sure which is a permanent solution. While in some areas concrete embankments may have worked, it may not stand the river’s force and storm surge in other areas where the soil characteristics and slope many be different. There, natural structures strengthened by local mangrove species or geo-textile may be suitable,” said Tuhin Ghosh, director of School of Oceanographic Studies at Jadavpur University.After facing a severe backlash allegedly because of local panchayat leaders over corruption and nepotism in relief distribution, this time, the CM has announced that the relief work would be done directly by the government, instead of local panchayats, and benefits would be directly transferred to the bank accounts of affected persons after proper enquiry.“We need to undertake a proper survey before starting the reconstruction and relief work. For this, we would start a project ‘Duaare Tran’ (relief at doorsteps). Camps would be held in villages between June 3 and June 18 where people can deposit drop their application detailing the damage to houses and croplands. Enquiry would be done between June 19 and June 30. The money will reach the affected persons directly between July 1 and July 8,” she added.The BJP, which won 77 of the 292 seats in the recently polls, said it would prefer to wait and watch how relief reaches the actual victims in a corruption-free manner.“The TMC, in a bid to make the three-tier panchayat system Opposition-free, has totally destroyed the system. BJP workers are not being allowed to enter relief camps. We apprehend whether they would be able to reach the camps of Duaare Tran when they are set up. These are all announcements made by the chief minister. Let us see how this works out,” said Samik Bhattacharya, BJP spokesperson in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-bengal-a-political-battle-over-cyclone-relief-erupts-again-101622445768229.html
31-05-2021||India||France to send more liquid oxygen, oxygen plants and concentrators||France said on Monday it will deliver at least 16 more oxygen generation plants and step up the supply of liquid oxygen as additional support for India to cope with a second wave of Coronavirus infections. This is the “largest solidarity operation” that France has carried out since the beginning of the pandemic and it reflects the “long-standing, two-way solidarity” between the two countries that is at the “heart of our strategic partnership”, said a statement from the French embassy. A special cargo flight with 10 oxygen generation plants is set to reach India in mid-June and another flight will follow with more plants. Each of these high capacity plants produces 24,000 litres of oxygen an hour non-stop and can make a 250-bed hospital self-reliant in oxygen for a dozen years. France delivered eight oxygen generation plants in early May and plans to deliver at least twice as many in the coming week, the statement said. The support provided by the plants brings immediate relief and long-term capacities, it added. Over the past three weeks, an oxygen bridge set up across the Indian Ocean by France and India has brought in 180 tonnes of liquid oxygen donated by the French multinational Air Liquide from a facility in Qatar. Containers are filled in Qatar, shipped to India by the Indian Navy and then brought back empty by the Indian Air Force for refilling. This supply of liquid oxygen is being extended until the end of June, which will enable the delivery of several hundred tonnes of oxygen. Also Read | Covid-19: Should India start opening up?France will also deliver several hundred oxygen concentrators and high-grade ventilators to India in the coming days. The additional support is being provided at the request of President Emmanuel Macron so that the two countries can continue fighting the second wave of the pandemic together, the statement said. The total support from France, including contributions from the government, individuals, NGOs, private companies and French regions, amounts to more than ₹55 crore. French ambassador Emmanuel Lenain said: “As discussed between President Macron and Prime Minister [Narendra] Modi in their May 26 call, France is doubling its support to India against the pandemic. It shows the solidarity of the French people, who have not forgotten that India helped us when France faced its first wave. “There cannot be global victory against the virus without India. Together, we can show the way of international cooperation against the pandemic and the need for a multilateral response.” France’s solidarity mission, which is part of the European Union’s (EU) coordinated response to the Covid-19 crisis, pools the resources of the French government, more than 50 French companies active in India and the Indo-French Chamber of Commerce and Industry. The EU had activated its Civil Protection Mechanism, which responds to emergencies in Europe and beyond, last month in response to a request from India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/france-to-send-more-liquid-oxygen-oxygen-plants-and-concentrators-101622444508816.html
31-05-2021||India||Woman Maoist carrying reward of ₹2 lakh killed in Chhattisgarh’s Dantewada||A suspected woman Maoist carrying a reward of ₹2 lakh on her head was gunned down by the security forces in Chhattisgarh’s Dantewada district on Monday. Police said they recovered 24-year old Vaiko Pekko’s body from the encounter spot along with two country-made firearms, an improvised explosive device (IED) weighing 2 kg, other Maoist publicity material, medicines and items of daily use.“The encounter took place at 6.30am near Gumalnar village under Geedam police station limits when a team of the district reserve guard (DRG) was out on an anti-Maoist operation. Later, during the search, the body of Pekko was recovered,” said Dantewada superintendent of police (SP) Abhishek Pallava.Police said Pekko was a resident of Bhairamgarh of Bijapur district and she was active as a member of the PLGA (People’’s Liberation Guerrilla Army) platoon no.16.“She carried a reward of ₹2 lakh on her head. Search in the nearby jungle is still going on,” said the SP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/woman-maoist-carrying-reward-of-rs-2-lakh-killed-in-chhattisgarh-s-dantewada-101622443428575.html
31-05-2021||India||As they turn to digital devices, children face enhanced cyber sexual harassment||When a 14-year-old girl’s parents in Delhi’s Shahdara district bought her a mobile phone last year to facilitate her online classes, a result of the restrictions imposed on schools to curb the spread of the pandemic, little did they realise the possible social media abuse she may be subjected to.Over the next year, what followed were classes during the school hours and social media indulgence for much of the remaining period. She garnered hundreds of followers on her social media sites, befriended dozens of other users and casually chatted with a few of them.Among those many users she had bonded with over the past few months was a person with a criminal bent. When his proposal of sexual relations with the girl was turned down, he hounded her by stalking her on social media sites by creating multiple fake accounts, shooting abusive emails from different identities, and finally threatening to morph and upload her images on social media sites.For three long days, the girl bore the threats in the hope that they would fade away if she did not respond. When she could take it no more, she gathered the courage to confide in her parents who immediately approached the local police.Despite him using VPN to mask his online credentials, the police were able to nab the suspect in less than six hours. According to the police, he was a 17-year-old boy who got in touch with this girl with the sole aim of sexually abusing her.Police investigators said the girl was luckier than many other girls in a similar situation.Also Read | Covid-19: Should India start opening up?She was able to hold herself from giving in to the demands of the blackmailer, she did not share her private images with him, she did not let the blackmailing continue for way too long, she could gather the courage to confide in her parents, her parents chose to immediately approach the police rather than silencing her and the police were able to trace the suspect before he could upload her edited images online.But the crisis is deeper. Police and child safety experts say while the sexual abuse over social media is rampant, only a small percentage of children are able to stand up against the abusers and even fewer go on to report them to the authorities.According to data released by the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB), there were 2,266 cases of sexual exploitation registered by cyber branches across India in 2019. Of these, at least 266 were minors.The under-reporting of casesVarun Pathak, chairperson of Child Welfare Committee (CWC), says that only a tiny fraction of online sexual abuse of children is reported, even as such crimes are rising rapidly ever since the pandemic resulted in mobile phones landing in the hands of a large number of children.The Delhi Police’s comparative data of cyber crimes last year before and during the lockdown suggested a three-time rise. For example, only 48 cyber crimes were reported in Delhi every day in January last year, compared to over 135 such crimes in May when the lockdown was at its peak. And nearly one in every four of these cyber crimes was social media harassment that included morphing photos of people and sexually harassing them.“Every child suddenly had a mobile phone in her or his hand during the pandemic. Apart from the classes, the children were using them for accessing social media. We went ahead by arming the children with mobile phones, but did not prepare for the side effects which involved widespread abuse,” says Pathak.While there is no immediate data specific to India to suggest the impact the social media usage has on the children, a survey by Plan International — a rights group for girls – showed that nearly 60% of girls in 22 countries, including India, experienced harassment on social media.Also Read | The battle of our times: State versus Big TechThe study, which was reported by Reuters, revealed that one in every five girls cut down on social media usage due to the harassment.The vulnerability of children This is not to suggest that abusers target only girls. In fact, a recent incident in outer Delhi involved the adult owner of an NGO being blackmailed by her driver who recorded her private video and threatened to upload it online. The victim in this case did give in to his demands the first time, but went on to record his threats and report him to police when he persisted with the blackmail.The police say adults are better placed to deal with social media abuse than children are.“Children are more exposed to this abuse because of their increasing presence on social media. Unlike adults, the children are unable to stand up to the blackmailers. They don’t know how to tackle such a situation. They fear that their future would be ruined if their identities were revealed. They are afraid to confide in their parents since not every guardian handles these issues with empathy,” says R Sathiyasundaram, deputy commissioner of police (Shadara district).He said that these are the reasons why the police take every precaution to ensure the identities of the victims are protected.Also Read | People with disabilities suffer as Covid limits access to care“If a child wishes to register her complaint with us without the knowledge of her parents, we are ready to oblige them as long as they are accompanied by a caretaker such as a friend or a relative,” says Sathiyasundaram, the officer in-charge of solving the crime where the 14-year-old girl was subject to harassment.The role of support systems But before these harassed children approach the police, they usually reach out to their family, teachers or friends. And teachers say they understand this.“At our school, I have a blunt way of making girls aware of these threats. We bluntly tell them about how these abusers generally approach girls, how they should be identified and how should they be dealt with. My simple advice to children is to say a direct ‘no’ when a stranger on social media asks for their images or personal details,” says Awadhesh Kumar Jha, principal of Sarvodaya Co-Ed Vidyalaya in Rohini Sector 8.Every other month, Jha receives a complaint about his girl students being abused on social media. “Despite our efforts, most children hide these complaints from us,” says Jha.One recent occasion when a student reached out to him for help was in January, but only after a man in his late 20s began threatening a 15-year-old girl about a knife attack if she refused to marry him.“I immediately called the girl’s parents, asked her to confide in them and advised them to approach the police. The threats ceased after the abuser was threatened with police case,” says Jha.The principal says that it is more difficult to deal with strangers turning into abusers than known schoolmates playing the same role. “If it is a boy from the school, or someone known to the girl, I call the abuser and deal with him personally. But it is not the same case with strangers,” he says.The nature of crimesPolice officers say that these sexual cyber crimes against children mainly involve bullying, stalking, morphing photographs and threatening to upload private images on social media. The abusers could range from acquaintances and school mates to strangers befriended on social media sites.Some of the recent crimes in which children were targeted show that abusers have even donned fake identities to be able to easily befriend minor girls and then extort from them without getting traced by the police.One such recent crime occurred in outer Delhi where a 13-year-old girl was lured into sharing her private images with a barber who posed as a rich youngster on a social media site. Once she sent across her photos, the man began pressuring her to bring in money if she didn’t want her images to be shared on social media.Also Read | The priority sector lending India needsAfter making desperate but failed attempts to arrange the money, the girl confided in her parents, eventually leading to the arrest of the suspect. The police were able to seize his phone, in which the private images were saved, before he could upload them on social media.The suspect allegedly turned out to be a serial abuser who blackmailed several girls before landing in police net.The police response Chinmoy Biswal, spokesperson of Delhi Police, who has served as head of various police districts in Delhi, says that the first priority of the police on receiving such complaints is to ensure the images and videos used to blackmail the victims are not released.“Our focus is on assuring the girl that we would do everything to prevent the uploading of her images and videos. In such cases, while arresting the suspect, we simultaneously work on recovering his electronic devices and ensuring he hasn’t shared the photos and videos with anyone else,” says Biswal.Most of these crimes require meticulous investigation, police investigators say.Atul Kumar Thakur, DCP of South district where quite a few such cases have been cracked in the recent months, says that a timely reaction is of utmost importance in such cases.“On certain occasions, delays in response by internet service providers or authorities of social media sites lead to prolonging of investigation. It also becomes difficult when the abusers use sophisticated tools to hide their identity. But our focus remains on ensuring that the suspect is arrested at the earliest and the digital evidence is sent for forensic analysis,” says Thakur.The police’s priority in such cases usually is to prevent the suspect from being alerted, lest he uploads the private photos and videos on the internet.Ranjana Prasad, member of the Delhi Commission for Protection of Child Rights Act (DCPCR), says that the only and best way for a girl – in case she ends up getting blackmailed – is to reach out to parents.“If the parents approach the police, there is a high chance that the police, at least in Delhi, turn active. In the few cases I have noticed, the deputy commissioners of police have taken personal interest to ensure FIRs and pursue action,” says Prasad. Prasad urges girls to call on the DCPCR’s helpline number, 9311551393, if they do end up trapped.The legal framework It is not that there are no laws in place to protect the children from cyber abuse, say experts.“People should know that under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, even possessing a nude image of a child in your electronic device is liable to ₹5,000 fine. It doesn’t matter that you received it from a stranger on WhatsApp or Telegram,” says Pathak.And if someone is caught sharing such images and videos, it could attract a jail term of up to five years. If the sharing happens for commercial purposes, the jail term could extend to seven years, Pathak says. Moreover, the police are required to ensure that no complaints of cyber abuse of children are ignored. “If a police personnel ignores such a complaint, there is a jail term of up to a year,” Pathak adds.As for keeping the children aware and alert from social media harm, the CBSE, the Indian Government and other agencies working for children and students regularly share guidelines. “The crux of these guidelines is what we use to guide the children,” says principal Jha.Yet, all that is not enough to keep the children safe and the biggest hindrance to pursuing such abusers remains the fear among children.“We just want to assure the children that if they approach us with a complaint, we guarantee to protect their identity and do our best to protect their dignity,” says DCP Sathiyasundaram.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-they-turn-to-digital-devices-children-face-enhanced-cyber-sexual-harassment-101622443248292.html
31-05-2021||India||Please smell the coffee: Supreme Court tells govt over vaccination policy||The Centre on Monday informed the Supreme Court that it is confident of vaccinating all of the country’s adult citizens against coronavirus disease (Covid-19) by the end of this year as it faced several questions over its ongoing inoculation drive.Highlighting the ongoing crisis of shortage of vaccine doses in the country, the top court said that the central government should take charge of sourcing the jabs for the entire country. This comes amid reports of several states floating global tenders to procure vaccine doses after facing severe scarcity."In a national crisis, the central government should procure vaccines for the entire country. States are left in a lurch. You should tell them that we will negotiate globally and procure vaccines for them so that there is clarity," a three-member bench of justice DY Chandrachud, justice LN Rao and justice S Ravindra Bhat told Solicitor General Tushar Mehta.Also read: India's daily Covid-19 cases fall further to 152,734; new deaths at 3,128During the top court’s suo moto hearing on Covid-19 crisis management in the country, the government explained its plan of vaccinating all citizens and claimed that the domestic production of vaccines will suffice the demands of doses.Solicitor General Mehta said that the doses produced by domestic vaccine manufacturers—the Serum Institute of India, Bharat Biotech and Reddy's Lab—will be enough to vaccinate all over 18 years of age. The government is in talks with companies like Pfizer and if it succeeds, then the timeline for completing the vaccination would change, the top law officer said.Seeking a broad idea of the government's plan to vaccinate people over the age of 45, the bench asked SG Mehta to explain how the logistics work out. The bench also emphasised the need for one price of the vaccine across the country, stating the deadly coronavirus pandemic has evolved in the last two months.“The Centre says it gets low pricing since it buys in bulk. If this is the rationale, then why do states have to get a higher price. There needs to be one price for the vaccines across the nation. The pandemic has evolved in the last two months," Justice Chandrachud told the Centre.Justice Chandrachud also asked the government how it plans to address the digital divide among rural and urban India as vaccination slots across the country can only be booked through the CoWIN mobile application.Covid-19: What you need to know today"What about the digital divide? For rural areas, you have said villagers can register on CoWIN app through NGOs. Our law clerks and secretaries have tried to register on CoWIN app so we know how it works," Justice Chandrachud told SG. "How are you answering the digital divide? How are you ensuring that the migrant workers are able to get vaccinated?" he asked.SG Mehta explained that the government has allowed walk-in registrations for those over 45 and also workplace vaccinations. However, SG Mehta said that walk-in vaccination will pave way for overcrowding and waiting for people at the centres."Please smell the coffee. If we had to do we would have done so 15 days ago. But we want you to smell the coffee and realise what's happening in the country and make the necessary amendments," Bar and Bench reported, quoting Justice Chandrachud.The top court bench, headed by Justice DY Chandrachud, constituted National Task Force (NTF) earlier this month to assess and recommend the need and distribution of oxygen in the country.The 12-member National Task Force was asked to formulate a methodology for the scientific allocation of oxygen to the states and Union territories for saving lives of Covid patients and to facilitate a public health response to the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/confident-of-vaccinating-all-above-18-by-2021-end-govt-tells-supreme-court-101622441149742.html
31-05-2021||India||World No Tobacco Day 2021: Why you should quit smoking now more than ever||Every year on May 30, the World Health Organization (WHO) observes World No Tobacco Day to spread awareness about the dangers of using tobacco. The day takes more importance this year as countries across the world are battling coronavirus (Covid-19), a respiratory disease.For this year, the world health body has launched a campaign, 'Commit to Quit,' to observe the day. While launching the campaign, it urged all countries to play their part by joining and creating tobacco-free environments by giving people the information, support, and tools they need to quit and quit for good.It also said that the raging Covid-19 pandemic has led to millions of tobacco users wanting to quit. "Nearly 60% of tobacco users around the world want to quit smoking, but only 30% of the global population have access to quality tobacco cessation services," it said on its website.Currently, only 23 countries provide comprehensive cessation services to help tobacco users to quit, it also mentioned.Over the last two years, many studies have indicated that smoking and chewing tobacco can substantially increase the chance of adverse impact on the immune system of Covid-19 patients."Tobacco adversely affects the immune system and impairs lung function, making users more vulnerable to developing respiratory infections like colds, influenza, tuberculosis, pneumonia, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD)," news agency ANI quoted Dr Vikas Maurya, director of pulmonology at Fortis Hospital in Delhi’s Shalimar Bagh, as saying."Covid-19 is an infectious disease that mainly attacks the lungs and tobacco use continues to be one of the biggest public health threats especially during this time," he also said.According to the data published on WHO's site, tobacco kills more than 8 million people every year around the world. Out of this, more than 7 million deaths are the result of direct tobacco use while around 1.2 million are the result of non-smokers being exposed to second-hand smoke, it also informed on its website.While cigarette smoking is the most common form of tobacco use worldwide, other uses products include waterpipe tobacco, various smokeless tobacco products, cigars, cigarillos, roll-your-own tobacco, pipe tobacco, bidis and kreteks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/world-no-tobacco-day-2021-why-you-should-quit-smoking-now-more-than-ever-101622440796008.html
31-05-2021||India||London legal eagles to protect Choksi from extradition to India||The case related to the extradition of fugitive diamantaire Mehul Choksi, who is admitted to a hospital in Dominica, after his dramatic escape from Antigua and Barbuda and subsequent capture, is likely to be heard in the Commonwealth Court of Justice on June 2, officials aware of the development said on Monday.A Dominican court has extended till June 2 its order restraining the extradition of Choksi from Dominica. The court will next hear the matter on June 2 as Choksi has moved a habeas corpus plea.Choksi’s lawyers claimed that the absconding billionaire was “abducted” and taken to the island nation of Dominica by “force”.READ MORE: Private jet in Dominica is from India, confirms Antigua PMHowever, HT learns that India’s Enforcement Directorate will take a plea in the court that Choksi remains an Indian citizen even though he has a passport issued by Antigua and Barbuda, as is in Dominica illegally, on the grounds that he is a absconder in case of a multi-billion fraud and that he has an Interpol Red Corner Notice against his name, and that he should, therefore, be deported to India.But the key part of ED’s argument, HT learns, will be that while Choksi surrendered his Indian passport in September 2018 in Georgetown Guyana, this was not accepted and the surrender documents were not signed by the prescribed authority. ED will argue, citing Rule 23 of India’s Citizenship Act, that the prescribed authority in this case is the ministry of home affairs.The ED has obtained the following information in support of its proof that Choksi remains an India citizen:1. Bank Account Opening Form of M/s. Asmi Jewellery India Pvt. Ltd. dated 15.06.2010 with Punjab National Bank:It bears signatures of Mehul Choksi as director of the company at page 9 and 15. He has also signed at page 14 as 1st Authorized Signatory of the company opposite to his photograph. In the customer master form attached with the account opening form, Mehul Choksi has clearly mentioned his nationality as Indian at column no. 6 of page 16 and signed the form as customer at page 19. The Income tax Return acknowledgement issued by the Indian Income Tax department to Mehul Choksi having PAN No. AABPC1415E is attached at page 20. At page no. 21, copy of PAN Card issued by Income Tax Department, Government of India vide no. AABPC1415E to Mehul Choksi is also attached with the form.2. Bank Account Opening Form of M/s. Gitanjali Gems Ltd. for Account No. 3731008702687143 with Punjab National Bank:It bears signatures of Mehul Choksi below his photograph as 1st Authorized person and also across his photograph at page 6. In the customer master form attached with the account opening form, Mehul Choksi has clearly mentioned his nationality as Indian at column no. 1 under Personal details at page 14, where his photograph is affixed and signed by him across as well as below the photograph. He has also signed the form as applicant at page 17.3. A copy of PAN Card issued by Income Tax Department:The PAN card issued to Mehul Choksi by the government of India vide no. AABPC1415E proves that he is a tax payer in India.4. The ED also procured the details of Indian passports issued to Choksi from time-to-time. The details are as follows:a. Passport no. G2453252 and Passport application of Mehul Choksi (date of issue: 27.03.2007):This passport issued to Mr. Mehul Choksi was valid from 27.03.2007 to 28.03.2017 and the passport shows his Nationality as Indian. The Passport Application bears his photograph, signature and thumb impression at page 1 of the application. Under column no. 5 of Passport Application, he has mentioned his place of birth as “Mumbai, Maharashtra, India” and under column no. 21 of the application, he has signed a self declaration “I have not lost, surrendered or been deprived of citizenship of India”. The application was received at Regional Passport Office, Mumbai on 26.03.2007, as per the seal affixed at page 1 of the application.READ MORE: ‘Choksi still Indian citizen’: ED’s likely line of argument in courtb. Passport no. Z1776927 and Passport application of Mehul Choksi (date of issue: 19.10.2007):This passport of Mr. Mehul Choksi valid from 19.10.2007 to 18.10.2017 was issued on cancellation of his earlier passport no. G2453252 and the passport shows his Nationality as Indian. The Application Form for this passport bears his photograph and signature on page 1. Under column no. 5 of Passport Application, he has mentioned his place of birth as “Mumbai, India” and at column no. 14, he has mentioned that he is a citizen of India by Birth and at column no. 19, he has signed a self declaration “I have not lost, surrendered or been deprived of citizenship of India”. The application was received at Regional Passport Office, Mumbai on 12.10.2007, as per the seal affixed at page 1 of the application.c. Passport no. Z2198941 and Passport application of Mehul Choksi (date of issue: 24.03.2011):This passport of Mr. Mehul Choksi valid from 24.03.2011 to 23.03.2021 was issued on cancellation of his earlier passport no. Z1776927 and the passport shows his Nationality as Indian. The signed Application Form dtd. 21.03.2011 for this passport bears his photograph and signature on page 1. Under column no. 5 of Passport Application, he has mentioned his place of birth as “Mumbai, Maharashtra,” . At column no. 14, he has mentioned that he is a citizen of India by Birth and at column no. 19, he has signed a self declaration “I have not lost, surrendered or been deprived of citizenship of India”.d. Passport no. Z3396732 and Passport application of Mehul Choksi (date of issue: 10.09.2015):This passport of Mr. Mehul Choksi valid from 10.09.2015 to 09.09.2025 was issued due to exhaustion of pages of his earlier passport no. Z2198941 and the passport shows his Nationality as Indian. The signed Application Form dtd. 09.09.2015 for this passport bears his photograph and signature on page 1. In this Passport Application, he has mentioned his place of birth as “Mumbai, Maharashtra, India” at page 1 and he has mentioned that he is a citizen of India by Birth in this application and at page no. 2, he has signed a self-declaration “I have not lost, surrendered or been deprived of citizenship of India” and at page 3 he has signed as applicant.5. Agreement between M/s. Gitanjali Gems Ltd. and Mr. Mehul Choksi executed on 04.10.2012A copy of agreement executed between M/s. Gitanjali Gems Ltd. and Mr. Mehul Choksi on 04.10.2012, which was submitted to Registrar of Companies, Maharashtra wherein Mr. Mehul Choksi is submitting a signed affidavit that he is an Indian National at page 1. In this agreement at para 2, the shareholders have approved re-appointment of Mr. Mehul Choksi as Managing Director for a further period of five years with effect from 01.08.2012. Mr. Mehul Choksi has signed at the bottom of every page of this agreement.HT has learnt that Choksi has flown in four heavy-duty lawyers from London to represent him in the court on June 2.Choksi and his nephew Nirav Modi are wanted in India for allegedly siphoning off ₹13,500 crore of public money from the state-run Punjab National Bank (PNB) using letters of undertaking.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/london-legal-eagles-to-protect-choksi-from-extradition-to-india-101622437862719.html
31-05-2021||India||UP to ease Covid curfew in districts with less than 600 active cases||The Uttar Pradesh government on Sunday announced relaxation in the statewide Covid curfew on weekdays in districts with less than 600 active cases with effect from June 1. There are 55 such districts in the state at present, excluding the capital city of Lucknow.The weekend curfew (Saturdays and Sundays) and the night curfew (7pm to 7am) will continue statewide as before. Also, there will be no easing of the curbs in any of the containment zones in the state.This is the first time the government announced relaxations since the partial curfew was introduced on April 30. It was extended several times thereafter. The last extension was till 7am on May 31.Also Read | Yogi Adityanath announces ₹10 lakh assistance for kin of journalists who died due to Covid-19The order issued by UP chief secretary RK Tiwari said, “Relaxations will automatically come into force in any district where active Covid cases fall below 600. The restrictions will automatically return in any district where active cases go up to 600 (or beyond).”All markets and shops will be allowed to open on weekdays (Monday to Friday) from 7am to 7pm in all these districts.“The enforcement of the existing Covid restrictions will be done rigorously in the [remaining] 20 districts to bring down the number of active cases there. The home department will issue more guidelines for this,” said a government spokesperson.Shopping malls, cinema halls, coaching institutes, swimming pools and bars will stay closed across the state till further orders. But restaurants can operate for home deliveries across the state. All districts are allowed to let roadside (highways and expressways) dhabas, carts, and kiosks to function.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-to-ease-covid-curfew-in-districts-with-less-than-600-active-cases-101622440007698.html
31-05-2021||India||Chhattisgarh announces ₹5 lakh for kin of journalists who died due to Covid-19||Chhattisgarh government on Sunday announced an assistance of ₹5 lakh for families of media persons dying due to Covid-19. The government said it will also reimburse their expenses incurred for Covid treatment at hospitals under the Chhattisgarh Media Representative Welfare Assistance Rules.“Information about families of media personnel afflicted with Covid-19 is being collected by the directorate of public relations,” a press release by the directorate stated.A senior official of the directorate said a total of 30 media persons have died in the state due to Covid-19 till now. He also invited the affected families to submit applications in a prescribed format to the public relations offices in respective districts.On Sunday, the Uttar Pradesh government also announced a financial assistance of ₹10 lakh to kin of journalists, who have died due to Covid-19. Early this month, Chhattisgarh’s neighbour Odisha announced an ex gratia of ₹15 lakh for the next of kin of journalists who die of Covid-19 while performing their duty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-announces-rs-5-lakh-aid-for-families-of-journalists-who-died-due-to-covid19-101622439527709.html
31-05-2021||India||3.8 magnitude quake hits Assam's Tezpur, second in less than 24 hours||An earthquake of magnitude 3.8 hit Assam's Tezpur on Monday morning, according to the National Center for Seismology (NCS). The quake occurred at 9:50am at a depth of 24 kilometres and its epicentre was located at 44km west of Tezpur, the centre added."Earthquake of Magnitude: 3.8, Occurred on 31-05-2021, 09:50:50 IST, Lat: 26.69 & Long: 92.35, Depth: 24 Km, Location: 44km W of Tezpur, Assam, India," NCS said in a tweet.An earthquake of magnitude 4.1 jolted Tezpur district on Sunday at 2:23pm at the depth of 16km and its epicentre was 40km west of Tezpur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/38-magnitude-quake-hits-assam-s-tezpur-second-in-less-than-24-hours-101622438579852.html
31-05-2021||India||Meghalaya Raj Bhavan has 43 Covid cases||Twenty-five persons tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday at Meghalaya’s Raj Bhavan, taking the total active cases there to an alarming 43.A Raj Bhavan communiqué said a mass testing of high-risk contacts of positive cases was conducted on the its premises after 18 positive cases on May 24.“Out of 80 high risk contacts tested, 25 have been declared positive. This takes the total figure of positive cases among staff and their family to 43,” the communiqué revealed. Of these, 10 are children below the age of 15 years while three are with co-morbidities.Also Read | Meghalaya holds multi-faith prayer meet for Covid controlThe statement admitted that the second wave of Covid-19 has been challenging for the Raj Bhavan which is recovering from last month’s surge in cases when 28 people tested positive simultaneously. Twenty-three of these have recovered since.What is worrisome is that most of the positive cases are personal staff working in the main building and in close contact of Governor Satya Pal Malik.The communiqué said the Raj Bhavan secretariat and doctor are closely monitoring the situation and extending help to the affected persons with medical treatment, counselling and other support to the families.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/meghalaya-raj-bhavan-has-43-covid-cases-101622438687551.html
31-05-2021||India||'Project of national importance': Delhi High Court junks plea to halt Central Vista||The Delhi High Court on Monday dismissed a plea seeking to halt construction work at Central Vista Avenue in the national capital, saying it was a motivated petition. The court said the project was of national importance.The high court said the Public Interest Litigation or PIL was not genuine and also imposed a fine of  ₹1 lakh on the petitioners citing lack of bonafide on their side.A bench of Chief Justice DN Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh was hearing the plea by Anya Malhotra, a translator, and Sohail Hashmi, a historian and documentary filmmaker, seeking to halt the ongoing part redevelopment of the Central Vista Avenue which includes both sides of Rajpath where Republic Day celebration are held. They contended that the project was not an essential activity and therefore, could be put on hold for now during the coronavirus pandemic.Also read: Labourers at Central Vista project follow Covid protocols, Centre tells Delhi HCThe bench said that clearance to the project has already been upheld by the Supreme Court. There is no question of suspending the work since the workers are residing at the construction site, the bench said, adding that the work on the project has to be completed in a time-bound manner.“The whole Central Vista is an essential project of national importance where the sovereign functions of the Parliament will be conducted. The public is widely interested in this project,” it said.Also read | Central Delhi roads will need to expand due to Central Vista project: ReportStating that Covid-19 safety protocols are being followed and there is no reason to stall construction, the court said the workers are staying at the site and all the facilities have been provided to them.On May 17, the court reserved its order on the plea. The petitioners moved the Supreme Court against the high court’s May 4 order adjourning their plea to May 17. The high court adjourned the matter saying it wanted to study the top court’s January 5 judgment giving a go-ahead to the Central Vista project. The Centre said that the petition is an attempt to halt the project with oblique motives.The Central Vista project envisages constructing a new Parliament House, a new residential complex that will house the Prime Minister and the vice president, as well as several new office buildings and a central secretariat to accommodate ministry offices.The new parliament complex and buildings that are being built as part of the Central Vista redevelopment project will have parking for at least 16,000 cars, and while that may mean a likely increase in traffic volume in the area, enough mitigation measures will be put in place to ensure there is no congestion or impact on traffic movement, the architectural consultant for the project said.Also read: Central Vista revamp to have space to park 16,000 carsLutyens’ Delhi’s key roads will need to be upgraded to 4-8 lanes by 2031 to accommodate the growth in traffic, both routine and on account of the Central Vista project, according to a traffic impact analysis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/project-of-national-importance-delhi-hc-junks-plea-to-halt-central-vista-101622437749486.html
31-05-2021||India||Kerala assembly passes resolution seeking recall of Lakshadweep administrator||The Kerala legislative assembly on Monday passed a unanimous resolution demanding the recall of Lakshadweep administrator Praful Khoda Patel over the recent draft Lakshadweep Development Authority Regulation (2021) and new rules which have sparked protests on the island.The resolution was moved by chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan. “The people of Lakshadweep are undergoing a difficult situation. Their culture and tradition are under threat following dictatorial measures being taken by the administrator ignoring local protests. Even their food habits and livelihood are under threat,” said the resolution. It also pointed out the island’s long-standing relations with the state and said the Sangh Parivar is making the island another laboratory and people of the country will not allow that to happen. Also Read | Understanding the discontent in Lakshadweep: An explainer“People of the island are peace-loving. The administrator is taking many measures to alienate them. In the name of development, even their livelihood is threatened. Even coconut trees are painted with saffron colour in the name of beautification. This can’t be allowed at any cost,” it said. After Patel’s recall, all his controversial decisions should be withdrawn, it said. “Steps are being taken to eliminate beef which is an important part of the staple food. Measures are also being taken to ban cow slaughter and close dairy farms. The administrator is taking the lead in gradually destroying the life and culture of the people of Lakshadweep,” it said. An archipelago in the Arabian Sea, Lakshadweep is in the eye of a storm for the past two weeks after the administrator brought in a new set of rules. The issue also hit national headlines after many Congress and CPI(M) MPs wrote to the President, alleging that administrator Patel, a former home minister of Gujarat, was trying to “saffronise the island by imposing many new rules inimical to island culture”. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has defended the new rules strongly and said people with vested interests were spreading misinformation. It said the administration was trying to develop the island as a major tourist hub, like Maldives, and local people supported its endeavour. But this has failed to placate party leaders on the island with many of them quitting the party in protest. A delegation of the party is in Delhi to apprise home minister Amit Shah about the ground situation. “We condemn the resolution. Earlier the assembly had passed a resolution to free cleric Abdul Nassar Madani, accused in a bomb blast case. Later he was re-arrested and now he’s languishing in a jail in Karnataka,” said party state president K Surendran. Meanwhile, the administration has denied permission to a team of MPs from Kerala to visit the island, citing Covid-19 protocol. On Sunday, supporters of the “Save Lakshadweep campaign” observed a black day on social media by painting their home page black.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-assembly-passes-resolution-seeking-recall-of-lakshadweep-administrator-101622437247627.html
31-05-2021||India||Centre to take action against WB chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay||The Centre will initiate disciplinary action against West Bengal chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay after he failed to report to the department of personnel, public grievances and pensions (DoPT) in New Delhi as ordered, people familiar with the development said on Monday. The central government transferred Bandopadhyay to DoPT on Friday, ordering the top civil servant to report by 10am on Monday, after a row broke out over West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee skipping a meeting convened by the PM during his visit to the state to review the impact of Cyclone Yaas.Meanwhile, Mamata wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi saying she is "shocked and stunned" by the Center’s unilateral order" asking Bandyopadhyay to report to DoPT.Also read | Mamata targets Modi over ‘vendetta politics’“The unilateral "order" comes without any prior consultation whatsoever with the Government of West Bengal, without any volition / option of the officer, without meeting any of the pre- conditions of the Indian Administrative Service (Cadre) Rules, 1954 and other applicable laws under reference. The unilateral order / directive is legally untenable, historically unprecedented and wholly unconstitutional,” the Bengal chief minister wrote in her five-page letter.“The government of Bengal cannot release, and is not releasing, its Chief Secretary at this critical hour, on the basis of our understanding that the earlier order of extension, issued after lawful consultation in accordance with applicable laws, remains operational and valid," she also said.Also read | ‘Is it because we have won by a landslide?’: Mamata asks BJPBandopadhyay was also present at the chief minister’s brief interaction with Prime Minister Modi at Kalaikunda on Friday afternoon. Mamata Banerjee did not attend the review meeting chaired by PM Modi, saying she had other appointments triggering a political row.Bandopadhyay was due to retire on Monday but Mamata Banerjee announced last week that the Centre cleared her request to let the 1987-batch Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officer from the Bengal cadre continue for three more months since he had the experience of working during last year's Cyclone Amphan and had handled the ongoing coronavirus pandemic.Bandopadhyay has never served in the central government and would not have been empanelled to serve at senior positions in the government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-to-take-action-against-wb-chief-secretary-alapan-bandyopadhyay-101622436650465.html
31-05-2021||India||'India's image tarnished': Congress minister on bodies of Covid-19 patients found in rivers||Maharashtra Revenue Minister and Congress leader Balasaheb Thorat on Sunday said the scenes of the bodies of Covid-19 victims floating in rivers and lying in the sand in some states have tarnished the image of India in the world.Speaking on the seventh anniversary of the Modi government, he slammed the BJP for the rise in prices of petrol and diesel."Where are the BJP leaders gone now who used to take to streets even when there was a single rupee rise in the petrol prices? Petrol prices have shot up to ₹100 per litre now. Where are these leaders and activists hiding," he asked while speaking to reporters.Thorat took stock of the damage caused by cyclone 'Tauktae' in Palghar and the Covid-19 situation.He said the Maha Vikas Aghadi government has handled the pandemic situation in the state in a proper manner."....In some states bodies (of Covid-19 victims) are floating in rivers and also lying in the sand in the open. This is a matter of shame for the country. This has tarnished the image of India in the world," Thorat said and blamed the Central government for its "failure" in handling the pandemic.He said the MVA was functioning well but the BJP is dreaming of creating a rift."But their dreams will remain a dream only," he said.Thorat alleged that Prime Minister Narendra Modi exported Covid-19 vaccines to embellish his image at the cost of the people of India, which is now facing a crunch."The seven years of Modi government are a total failure," he said, adding the Centre's assurances of giving employment to 2 crore people; depositing ₹15 lakh in bank accounts and containing inflation in 100 days remained unfulfilled.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-image-tarnished-cong-on-bodies-of-covid-19-patients-found-in-rivers-101622435813953.html
31-05-2021||India||Lakshadweep row: Why latest orders have upset locals||Tensions have been simmering in Lakshadweep, an idyllic archipelago of 36 islands, over a number of controversial proposals ranging from a beef ban to the nod to liquor sale, in an Union territory that largely has a Muslim population. Calling the orders "anti-people," critics see new regulations as a threat to the cultural identity of inhabitants and the fragile ecology of the islands.The controversial proposals also include disqualification of people with more than two children who wish to contest the village council elections to taking over land belonging to the locals for the purpose of development. It also seeks to implement the anti-social Activities Regulation bill, 2021, or the goonda act, in the islands where the crime rate is already very low.The local government says that the orders are being introduced for the development of the islands and aims to make it a popular holiday destination like the Maldives. Meanwhile, the Centre has dismissed the criticism saying it is a result of Patel's efforts to end "corrupt practices" involving local politicians prevalent and usher in development there.Here are the key points to know about the row:1) Praful Khoda Patel took over as the new administrator of Lakshadweep in December last year following the death of Dineshwar Sharma the same month. He is also the administrator of the UT of Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu.2) The Union territory has close to 95% Muslim population with Scheduled Tribes status. According to the 2011 census, the population of the archipelago is 64,473. Among 37-odd islands, only 10 are inhabited.3) At the centre of the row is the anti-social Activities Regulation bill, 2021, or the goonda act in the islands' territory where the crime rate is already very low.4) According to the National Crime Records Bureau (2019) report, the island had zero cases of major crimes such as rape, murder, kidnapping and dacoity. The number of violent incidents reported in the island was 16 in 2019 and 13 cases related to liquor and drug-related cases.5) On Lakshadweep Development Authority Regulation, locals allege that this will give sweeping powers to the administrator to take over land forcefully.6) The locals also fear that the regulation will impede the livelihood of traditional fishermen. Fishing is one of the main revenue generators for the people of Lakshadweep.7) It also introduced a proposal to disqualify people with more than two children who wish to contest the village council elections. Islanders say it will rob many of their right to contest in elections.8) Locals also allege that the dilution in the local Covid-19 norms has led to a massive surge in daily cases of coronavirus disease. Not a single case of Covid-19 was reported from the island till December 2020, after which the positivity rate has surged to more than 10%.9) Except Bangaram island, Lakshadweep is a non-alcoholic zone due to its Muslim-majority population. With the administration now planning liquor permits in three more islands, locals fear that it will affect their culture.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lakshadweep-row-why-latest-orders-have-upset-locals-101622435647517.html
31-05-2021||India||Will never manipulate data to justify forecasts: IMD on monsoon forecast lapse||Monsoon is likely to make onset over Kerala around June 3, two days after its normal onset date of June 1, India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Sunday.On May 28, the department had said that monsoon was likely to make onset over Kerala on May 31, a day ahead of its normal date. Its May 14 forecast had also predicted the arrival of monsoon over Kerala on May 31, with a possible error margin of plus/minus four days.After very severe cyclone Yaas weakened, scientists said it had helped strengthen monsoon winds. Very heavy to heavy rain was reported in different parts of Kerala on May 27 and 28.But rains stopped and no heavy rain has been recorded over Kerala since then. “It should rain for two consecutive days in a certain number of stations. That has not happened. The westerlies should have a certain depth and it should be very cloudy. All these factors have to be met for us to announce onset [of monsoon]. These conditions may start from June 1 and meet the criteria by June 3,” said M Mohapatra, director general, IMD.Also Read | Dust storm, showers keep Delhi’s temperature lowAddressing the lapse in the forecast, M Rajeevan, secretary, ministry of earth sciences, tweeted,“@Indiametdept will never manipulate data or make statements to justify their forecasts. They admit forecast failures with humility. In weather & monsoon forecasts, no one can be perfect. We are also accountable to Indian tax payers. We show respect to our country.”According to IMD’s monsoon onset parameters, after May 10, 60% of the available 14 stations enlisted-- Minicoy, Amini, Thiruvananthapuram, Punalur, Kollam, Allapuzha, Kottayam, Kochi, Thrissur, Kozhikode, Thalassery, Kannur, Kudulu and Mangalore should report rainfall of 2.5 mm or more for two consecutive days, depth of westerlies should be maintained up to 600 hPa, outgoing longwave radiation (OLR) value should be below 200 wm-2 ( watt per sq metre). OLR represents the total radiation going to space emitted by the atmosphere or the extent of cloudiness.Southwest monsoon normally sets in over Kerala around June 1. It advances northwards, usually in surges, and covers the entire country around July 5.Skymet Weather, a private weather forecasting company, however, announced onset of monsoon on Sunday--May 30, two days ahead of normal monsoon onset date of June 1. “A set of environmental conditions need to be fulfilled as a criterion for the arrival of monsoon. By and large, all parameters have satisfied the required threshold, essentially the rainfall and depth and speed of westerly winds over the southeast Arabian Sea and adjoining equatorial Indian Ocean. Rainfall amounts are verified from the available data on the official website,” Skymet Weather said in a statement.“Often the copybook criteria of monsoon onset is not met. As on today, the westerly wind profile parameter has been met and 60% of the 14 stations have recorded over 2.5 mm rain for consecutive days. OLR is low so that criteria is not met,” explained Mahesh Palawat, vice president, climate change and meteorology, Skymet Weather.“At present, the criteria are not fully satisfied. For example, the rainfall over Kerala has decreased today along with weakening of westerly winds. Also, the depth of westerly winds did not increase up to 4.5 km against the expectation. The convective cloud development leading to enhancement of rainfall activity over Kerala in such a scenario is not expected at least up to June 1,” IMD’s Mohapatra added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-never-manipulate-data-to-justify-our-forecasts-imd-on-monsoon-forecast-lapse-101622434727553.html
31-05-2021||India||Meghalaya holds multi-faith prayer meet for Covid control||Meghalaya politicians, religious leaders and residents held a virtual prayer session on Sunday, seeking divine protection from Covid-19 pandemic, which has been on a rampage in the northeastern state.The multi-faith prayer meeting idea was mooted by state health minister Alexander L Hek and supported by chief minister Conrad K Sangma, who hoped for the number of Covid recoveries to consistently exceed fresh positive cases, as witnessed in the last few days.“We are here today to pray for the strength to fight against this crisis…… we are here today to pray for hope to see a better tomorrow and we are here to pray for faith to believe that together with God’s blessings we shall overcome these trying times and come out as a stronger society,” CM Sangma said at the prayer meeting.On Sunday, Meghalaya recorded its highest single-day recovery with 974 Covid patients getting discharged. However, it also recorded deaths of 13 Covid-19 patients and 742 new confirmed cases. 25 of these new cases were confirmed among the Raj Bhavan staff, taking the number of infections in the governor’s house to 43. The Covid death toll in the state has now risen to 564 and the number of active cases stands at 7,496. Meghalaya has so far recorded 35,190 Covid cases including 27,130, who were cured from the disease.The virtual prayer meet ended with a benediction from Shillong Archbishop Victor Lyngdoh. Last year too, a similar program called ‘Meghalaya Prays’ was organised on May 12, when a musical video featuring the CM, government officials and a number of artists praying for the state, was played out.The state government also extended the total lockdown till 5am on June 7 in the state while indicating that capital Shillong in the East Khasi Hills- a major Covid hotspot, will see even more stringent curbs. However, the deputy commissioner of the district has been asked to ensure availability of essential commodities. The onus to impose stricter measures, if deemed necessary, has been delegated to the district magistrates in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/meghalaya-holds-multi-faith-prayer-meet-for-covid-control-101622434187252.html
31-05-2021||India||Gadkari is right man in wrong party, says Congress minister||Maharashtra Minister and senior Congress leader Ashok Chavan on Sunday praised Union Minister Nitin Gadkari saying that he is the right man in the wrong party.Addressing mediapersons via video conferencing, Chavan said, "I often talk about Nitin Gadkari. I had praised him the day before yesterday. He is an efficient minister. There are many issues which are related to basic amenities and infrastructure of Maharashtra. Gadkari takes those subjects seriously. I publicly praise his way of working either by writing articles or via tweets. But praising him does not mean that I support him politically. After all, he is a minister in the NDA government. So all I will say is that he is the right man but in the wrong party."On Sunday when the NDA government at the centre was celebrating the completion of seven years in office, Congress leader Ashok Chavan accused Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led government of failing to deal with the Covid-19 pandemic. He alleged that the Centre has taken all decision-making powers into its hands, but now after the outbreak of Covid-19, it is blaming the state governments.Asked if he had a favourite minister in the NDA government, Chavan replied that "good words" could only be spoken about Union minister Nitin Gadkari who is also the MP from Nagpur. Chavan said Gadkari maintains a "dialogue with other parties despite ideological differences".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gadkari-is-right-man-in-wrong-party-says-congress-minister-101622432994063.html
31-05-2021||India||Let private sector make Covid-19 vaccine to fight pandemic: SpiceJet to govt||Avani Singh, the chief executive officer of SpiceHealth and daughter of SpiceJet Ltd. Chairman Ajay Singh, has called upon India’s government to open up the manufacture and procurement of vaccines to the private sector, saying it’s the only way to ensure the nation’s vast population receives adequate protection from the pandemic.“The government needs to become much more lenient in opening up vaccination to the private sector,” Singh said in an interview last week. “We are obviously moving at a much slower pace with vaccinations than we should be. If they let private players like labs and hospitals procure vaccines from Pfizer, Moderna and let private players make Covaxin more aggressively we could significantly ramp up the administration and build up enough immunity to get out of this faster. Not allowing labs and hospitals to procure and facilitate vaccines is a huge untapped potential.”India is suffering the world’s worst Covid-19 outbreak and its health care system is collapsing as it runs short of everything from hospital beds to oxygen cylinders. Although the South Asian nation is one of the world’s biggest vaccine makers, supply locally has run dry amid an expansion of access to everyone aged 18 and above.To date, India’s public health care operators have done nearly all the heavy lifting in treating Covid patients. When fatigue started setting in among workers at state-run hospitals, Mumbai, one of the country’s largest and most-populated cities, invoked a colonial era law to rope in private-sector doctors. Vaccine purchases were also fully controlled by the federal government when only people aged 45 and above were eligible.Mobile Labs“It was criminal what was going on around the country,” Singh said, adding she was getting at least 30 calls a day from people asking for beds, oxygen concentrators and tests because it was taking four days to even get a slot for testing followed by another week for results to come in and people with symptoms weren’t able to get treated without a positive report. “The general perception in the country was we’re done, Covid is gone and that was an incorrect perception to have. To a certain extent it was avoidable and to a large extent we were just not equipped for it.”SpiceHealth was founded in November last year, a time when parent company SpiceJet Ltd., India’s second-largest airline, was hard hit by the pandemic. So much red ink has prompted airlines around the world to look for new revenue streams as they burn through cash. SpiceJet began selling Covid tests for around $4 to passengers to get them back on planes. Low-cost travel pioneer AirAsia Group Bhd. has embraced a similar diversification strategy, expanding its digital operations with an app that can be used for shopping, booking flights and ordering food.SpiceHealth quickly became a first mover in cheap testing, rolling out 499 rupee ($6.90) Covid tests -- one-fifth the then market rate in Delhi. That price is now largely the industry standard. SpiceHealth was also the first to set up mobile labs that can be quickly erected and moved as need be. There are now 15 SpiceHealth mobile labs across five states and each can process as many as 3,000 samples a day.“We got a lot of backlash from private players when we came up with 499 rupee tests,” Singh said. “It’s really about breaking that chain of pricing far above cost and you can recover a lot of that margin with scale. The mobile testing lab model is disruptive and very effective. There are underserved areas around the country where it’s very difficult to ramp up a fixed facility, find manpower and sustain it over a long period of time. With a mobile lab we can provide instant numbers and cover clusters where the need is the highest.”Singh said SpiceHealth, which is profitable and debt-free, would like to offer an end-to-end solution from procurement to transportation and administration of shots and reach remote areas but procuring vaccines as a private company has been a challenge.“The biggest bottleneck with vaccines is the procurement, getting hold of companies that will sell directly to the private sector. That’s the challenge most companies that are trying to get involved are facing,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/let-private-sector-make-covid-19-vaccine-to-fight-pandemic-spicejet-to-govt-101622432953705.html
31-05-2021||India||India's daily Covid-19 cases fall further to 152,734; new deaths at 3,128||India registered a dip in the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases recorded in 24 hours for the 47th consecutive day on Monday. With 152,734 fresh Covid-19 cases, the nation's infection tally reached 28,047,534, according to the Union health ministry website. As many as 16,831,35 tests were conducted in the same duration, the health ministry said.Continuing its downward streak, the number of new deaths due to Covid-19 were reported at 3,128 and the country's toll went up to 329,100.The active cases further dropped by 88,416 to stand at 20,260,92, which is now 7.58 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate improved to 91.25 per cent. As many as 238,022 people recovered from the disease in the last 24 hours, taking the total number of recoveries since the start of the pandemic to 25,692,342.The decline in Covid-19 cases in the country is accompanied by the Centre's assurance that India will soon emerge victorious against the pandemic as the international community comes forward to help the nation in its time of need. India has received medical assistance from the US, UK, Canada, Germany, France, and Ukraine among others in the form of oxygen concentrators, ventilators, raw materials for vaccines and PPE kits etc.The Opposition, however, has launched an attack on the government for its "mismanaged" nationwide inoculation drive. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi targeted Prime Minister Narendra Modi over his monthly radio programme 'Mann Ki Baat' and said there was a need for the government to have the "right intention" to fight Covid-19.“You need the right intention, policy and determination to fight Corona (Covid-19) and not just a pointless talk once in a month,” he said in a tweet in Hindi.Meanwhile, the cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country so far has reached 21,31,54,129, the health ministry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-daily-covid-19-cases-fall-further-to-152-734-new-deaths-at-3128-101622430666832.html
31-05-2021||India||News updates from HT: Delhi unlock process begins today and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Covid-19 lockdown: Delhi's unlock process begins from todayDelhi will start the process of partially easing its lockdown measures from Monday onwards, beginning with allowing the construction sector and factories to resume operations as cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) continue to see a steady decline in the national capitalRead more.Amid oil price rise, Centre to distribute free oilseedsIndia’s policymakers, alarmed by the growing prices of edible oils due to high import costs of oilseeds, have decided to re-use a Green Revolution-era strategy of distributing free seed packets, say officials familiar with the move.Read more. June’s Covid vaccine quota to be 120 million after 79 million in MayNearly 120 million vaccine doses will be available for the national Covid vaccination programme in June, the Union ministry of health and family welfare announced on Sunday even as both companies supplying the jabs are looking at ramping up their production capacity to 110-120 million doses from the existing 75-80 million.Read more. Experts fear biodiversity loss in Andaman, Nicobar IslandsA slew of infrastructure projects have been proposed in the Andaman and Nicobar Islands to give a major boost to tourism and business there, according to information released by the central government.Read more. When Rahul Vaidya’s Indian Idol performance left Sonu Nigam aghast: ‘Bad se badtar hoye jaa rahe hai’Singer Rahul Vaidya became a household name when he participated in the first season of the music reality show Indian Idol. While he could not win the trophy, he finished as the second runner-up.Read more. Khushi Kapoor adds a touch of sexy to athleisure in bodysuit and sweatpants, fans love itLeave it to Khushi Kapoor to add a touch of sexy to athleisure. The younger sister of actor Janhvi Kapoor has become the face of Genz-Z approved fashion trends in the country and there is no denying that.Read more.Dravid was able to do that with the focus he had: Former all-rounder highlights 'worrying factor' for India in WTC finalThe final of the World Test Championship is currently the talk of the two. Two evenly-matched sides are competing in the final of this ICC event with the inaugural WTC title on the line.Read more. Watch: Pakistan PM Imran Khan's J&K condition for holding talks with IndiaPakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan reportedly commented on resumption of talks with India. Khan set forth a condition for restarting bilateral dialogue. His caveat pertains to Indian Territory of Jammu & Kashmir.Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-delhi-unlock-process-begins-today-and-all-the-latest-news-101622430665059.html
31-05-2021||India||Nagaland trails in Covid vaccination; hesitancy in 45+ age group is one cause||Nagaland’s Covid-19 vaccination drive is lagging behind with only 268,628 doses administered till date- the lowest among the northeast states, and the health officials are blaming vaccine hesitancy among residents aged above 45 years as one major reason. In contrast, Manipur and Assam have administered 451,259 and 4,094,259 vaccine doses respectively.“Vaccine availability is not an issue but the problem is there are less takers, particularly among age groups above 45 years, due to various reasons,” says Dr. Ritu Thurr, state immunization officer, directorate of health and family welfare.He says despite the awareness campaign, residents in these age groups are resisting and adopting a “wait and watch” approach, mainly due to rumours and fake news circulating in social media platforms, casting doubts over the efficacy of vaccines.On the other hand, the youth are eager to get vaccinated, giving out hope that this trend would increase converting those who are hesitant at the moment, the officer said.The demand for vaccine doses shot up after the drive was expanded on May 17 for residents aged 18 years and above. Health officials say there has been a steady increase in daily vaccinations since then. Out of the 214,464 people who have been vaccinated in the state, 54,127 beneficiaries have also received the second dose of the vaccine, the officer said.Dr Thurr added that the state initially procured 36,580 vaccine doses for the 18-44 years age group but due to its high demand, the department was releasing fewer daily slots as it awaits arrival of the next batch of 40,700 doses, expected by the first week of June. As on Sunday, Nagaland had 129,690 doses of Covishield left in its stock.On Sunday, Nagaland’s Covid-19 caseload increased to 21,563 with the detection of 192 new cases and the death toll rose to 363 after 13 more Covid-19 patients succumbed to the infection, health minister S Pangyu Phom said. The state has 5,049 active patients while 15,523 people have recovered from the infection so far, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nagaland-trails-in-covid-vaccination-hesitancy-in-45-age-group-is-one-cause-101622432151341.html
31-05-2021||India||Lakshadweep unrest: Kerala assembly to pass resolution seeking withdrawal of latest reforms||The Kerala legislative assembly is set to pass a unanimous resolution on Lakshadweep on Monday, pledging solidarity to the residents of the Union territory facing turmoil over a slew of orders.Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan will introduce the resolution in the morning with a demand to immediately bring a resolution to the concerns of the people of the island. The resolution also seeks withdrawal of the controversial orders, passed by Lakshadweep administrator Praful Khoda Patel, who took over in December last year."The government will move the resolution in the ongoing session. I hope the opposition also will not have any objection and they will support it as many of its members have already raised such a demand. So, there is unanimity on the matter," the Kerala chief minister said earlier.The inhabitants of Lakshadweep are protesting against a new set of orders including the implementation of the anti-social Activities Regulation bill, 2021, or the goonda act, in the island territory. The critics of the law say that the bill is unnecessary as the crime rate of the island is “already very low”.The Lakshadweep government also took over the control of the local administrative powers of the elected zilla panchayat regarding education, healthcare, agriculture, animal husbandry and fisheries. It also gave a nod to liquor sale, banned beef and eliminated non-vegetarian food from the menu of Anganwadi children.Lakshadweep is a non-alcoholic zone as the majority population of the island comprises Muslims.Over the last week, several leaders including Lakshadweep MP and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Mohammed Faizal, Congress legislator Shafi Parambil, Communist Party of India-Marxist leaders, called on Centre and the local administration to pay heed to public demands and withdraw the new orders."What is happening in Lakshadweep is a cultural invasion to implement the Sangh Parivar agenda of the Central government," said Congress legislator Shafi Parambil in a letter to Kerala chief minister. The administrator was just an instrument to implement the fascist agenda, he further alleged.Congress also wrote a letter to President Ram Nath Kovind and Prime Minister Narendra Modi alleging that the current administrator of Lakshadweep has taken "authoritarian measures" and demanded his recall.Earlier on Sunday, supporters of the 'Save Lakshadweep' campaign observed a black day on social media. Meanwhile, a delegation of MPs from Kerala was denied permission to visit the Arabian sea islands citing Covid control measures.The CPI-M has also decided to stage a protest on May 31 in front of the Lakshadweep offices in Beypore and Kochi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lakshadweep-unrest-kerala-assembly-to-pass-resolution-seeking-withdrawal-of-latest-reforms-101622431843449.html
31-05-2021||India||Mehul Choksi tests negative for Covid-19, admitted to hospital: Reports||A day after fugitive diamantaire and multi-crore scam accused Mehul Choksi was shifted to a government quarantine facility in Dominica, the 62-year-old was taken to a hospital in the island nation's capital city of Roseau, according to the local media reports on Monday. Choksi has tested negative for coronavirus disease (Covid-19), report added.The Indian-origin scam accused is now a patient at the Dominica China Friendship Hospital, local media reported said citing his lawyers. According to the reports, Choksi is now admitted at the Imray Wade of the Dominica China Friendship Hospital under heavy police security in a private room.Also read: Mehul Choksi’s first photo in 3 yrs emerges as next stop bursts a controversy in AntiguaThis comes shortly after Choksi's first picture emerged in three years, showing him behind bars and with injuries on his hands and a swollen and bruised left eye. The pictures were released by the Antigua Newsroom. His lawyers have alleged abduction attempt from Jolly Harbour in Antigua and Barbuda by Indian and Antiguan officials.Antigua Prime Minister Gaston Browne on Sunday confirmed that a private jet from India arrived at Douglas-Charles airport.A Bombardier Global 5000 jet of Qatar Executive landed at Dominica’s Douglas Charles airport on Saturday. A publicly accessible flight path shows that it took off from New Delhi on May 28 and reached Dominica via Madrid.On the legal front, a Dominican court has extended till June 2 its order restraining the extradition of Choksi from Dominica. The court will next hear the matter on June 2 as Choksi has moved a habeas corpus plea.Also read | Mehul Choksi repatriation: Private jet in Dominica is from India, confirms Antigua PMAfter Choksi mysteriously disappeared from Antigua last Sunday, a political storm was sparked in Antigua where he is a citizen.Choksi and his nephew Nirav Modi are wanted in India for allegedly siphoning off ₹13,500 crore of public money from the state-run Punjab National Bank (PNB) using letters of undertaking.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/trending/mehul-choksi-tests-negative-for-covid-19-admitted-to-hospital-reports-101622427890490.html
31-05-2021||India||Maha continues to register a dip; records 18,600 fresh Covid cases||Maharashtra recorded 18,600 new Covid-19 cases on Sunday, continuing the trend of a steady decline in fresh cases, taking the tally to 5,731,815. The death toll reached 94,844 with 402 deaths. Mumbai recorded 1,062 new cases and 22 deaths, taking the tally to 704,622. The test positivity rate is 7.36%, the lowest since February 22, when it was 7.12%.Also Read | Health infrastructure gets boost as Delhi preps for next Covid waveThe state has seen a steady drop in fresh cases since May 1. On May 1, it recorded 63,282 cases which came down to 34,848 cases on May 15 and 18,600 on May 30. The state also saw 802 deaths on May 1, which rose to 960 on May 15 and dropped to 402 on May 30. There are currently 271,801 active cases across the state. Pune has 39,466 cases, followed by Mumbai with 28,015 active cases. On Sunday, 252,623 tests were conducted, while the number of recovered people was 22,532.Dr Subhash Salunke, advisor, Maharashtra government on Covid-19 management, said efforts were made to ensure a decline in cases. “We ramped up the number of tests, ensured faster diagnosis as well as medication for the patients and also ensured they get hospital beds in time,” said Dr Salunke. He said the lockdown played a significant role in the dip.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maha-continues-to-register-a-dip-records-18-600-fresh-covid-cases-101622431247264.html
31-05-2021||India||Man lynched on suspicion of child abduction||Five persons were arrested from Thane in Maharashtra on Sunday for allegedly lynching a 34- year-old man the previous night on suspicion that he was trying to abduct a minor daughter of one of them, police said.The incident occurred on the intervening night of Saturday and Sunday in the Wagle Estate area of the city.Police said one of the accused suspected that the victim, Ramawtar Dhobi, was abducting a minor girl, following which he raised an alarm and attacked Dhobi.Dhobi was thrashed by at least ten people, which resulted in his death, an official said.The arrested accused are identified as Atiq Khan, Mohasin Shaikh, Afsar Vasta, Harish Solanki, and Mohammad Ansari, he said.A hunt is on to trace other accused involved in the crime.A case has been registered under various sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Maharashtra Police Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-lynched-on-suspicion-of-child-abduction-101622429814008.html
31-05-2021||India||Ahead of monsoon, widespread rain, thunderstorms likely over Kerala, Karnataka||A cyclonic circulation is lying over eastcentral Arabian Sea off the Karnataka coast which is likely to meander over the region during the next five days, bringing widespread rain to peninsular India, including Kerala, according to India Meteorological Department (IMD).Southwesterly winds are also likely to strengthen during the next 2-3 days. Under the influence of these and other favourable meteorological conditions; scattered to fairly widespread rainfall or thunderstorm is likely over Karnataka, Kerala and Mahe, and isolated to scattered rainfall or thunderstorm is over the remaining parts of south peninsular India during the next 4-5 days. Isolated heavy rainfall is likely over Kerala and Mahe during the next 5 days; coastal Karnataka from June 1 to 3 and south interior Karnataka on June 2 and 3.Also Read | Experts fear biodiversity loss in Andaman, Nicobar IslandsThe southwesterly winds could strengthen further gradually from June 1 resulting in likely enhancement in rainfall activity over Kerala. Hence the monsoon onset over Kerala is likely to take place around June 3, IMD said.Due to strengthening of lower level southwesterly winds, fairly widespread to widespread rainfall activity with isolated heavy falls very likely over northeastern states during the next 5 days.A western disturbance is affecting the Western Himalayan region and lower level moisture incursion from north Arabian Sea to the plains of northwest is likely to continue during the next 3-4 days. Under its influence, no significant change in maximum temperatures is likely during next 5 days. Isolated to scattered rainfall or thunderstorm activity is likely over the western Himalayan region and adjoining plains of northwest India during the next 4-5 days..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahead-of-monsoon-widespread-rain-thunderstorms-likely-over-kerala-karnataka-101622429866993.html
31-05-2021||India||Odisha’s biggest jail’s chief warder suspended in Operation Clean Up||The Odisha government on Sunday suspended the chief warder of its biggest jail after mobile phones, SIM cards, mobile chargers, mobile batteries, a pen drive and cannabis were recovered from the prison.Odisha’s chief of prisons Santosh Upadhyay (DG) said Sudarshan Barik, chief warder of Jharpada Special Jail in Bhubaneswar was suspended after seizure of 6 mobile phones, 4 SIM cards, 5 mobile chargers, a pen drive, 5 mobile batteries and cannabis during Operation Clean Up on Saturday.Operation Clean Up is being undertaken by the directorate of prisons & correctional services reform to change the jail subculture, Upadhyay said.Earlier this month, a video of dancing and ganja smoking in Jharpada jail had gone viral in social media bringing embarrassment to the prisons department. The articles seized from Jharpada jail were found in the prison dining hall and wards, including the segregation ward. An FIR in this regard was lodged at the Laxmisagar police station and the seized articles were handed over to the police, said the police officer.He added that the cannabis was destroyed as per Odisha model jail manual. “This mission will be intensified till the jail authorities get satisfied with zero contraband articles in their respective jails,” Upadhyay said.In April this year, police in Koraput seized cash, a mobile phone, dumb-bells, iron rods and a pen drive from some under-trial prisoners following a raid at Jeypore sub-jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odishas-biggest-jail-s-chief-warder-suspended-in-operation-clean-up-101622429327182.html
31-05-2021||India||Uttarakhand CM says sugar part of ration relief for 1st time, stokes row||Uttarakhand chief minister Tirath Singh Rawat has stoked another controversy with his remarks that people of the state have never received sugar since Independence as part of ration during a disaster.Speaking at a function in Uttarkashi on Saturday, Rawat said, “Sugar was never distributed since independence. Never in any sorrow, difficulty or disaster… we are distributing sugar (as part of ration) for three months... we have passed a proposal in this regard in cabinet meeting yesterday (Friday).”When contacted, the CM said what he meant was that the Covid-19 period is also a disaster, during which for the first time, his government is distributing sugar as part of the ration. “So far during disasters in the state, wheat, rice and pulses have been distributed, but sugar has never been distributed,” he saidUdit Ghildiyal, part of CM’s media team, said Rawat’s statement has been misinterpreted. “Till a few years ago, sugar was part of the ration. But then the price of sugar in ration and in the market became almost same...the CM decided that till August, sugar should be provided as part of the ration to 23 lakh (2.3 million) cardholders in the state,” Ghildiyal said.At the cabinet meeting on Friday, it was decided that 2.3 million ration cardholders in the state will be provided 2 kg sugar per head at a lesser price than the market price.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-cm-says-sugar-part-of-ration-relief-for-1st-time-stokes-row-101622428149136.html
31-05-2021||India||Covid-19 tracker: Fall in new infections as Sunday saw rise of over 153,000 case||||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-tracker-fall-in-new-infections-as-sunday-saw-rise-of-over-153-000-case-101622418507210.html
31-05-2021||India||Jet sent to fly Choksi to India: Antigua PM||India has sent a private jet to Dominica with documents linked to the deportation of fugitive diamantaire Mehul Choksi, Prime Minister of Antigua and Barbuda Gaston Browne said on Sunday, even as officials in New Delhi indicated that the man wanted in the Punjab National Bank fraud case continued to be an Indian as his move to surrender his citizenship was not accepted by the government.Indian-born Choksi mysteriously disappeared from Antigua and Barbuda, whose citizenship he holds, on last Sunday, but was detained by Dominican police on Tuesday night on charges of illegally entering the island. The two islands are roughly 100 nautical miles apart.Also read| ‘Choksi still Indian citizen’: ED’s likely line of argument in courtChoksi may have left Antigua and taken a boat ride to neighbouring Dominica to have dinner or a “good time” with his girlfriend, the Antigua and Barbuda PM told a radio show in his country. There was, however, no immediate confirmation from Indian officials on Browne’s remarks.A Bombardier Global 5,000 jet of Qatar Executive mysteriously landed at Dominica’s Douglas Charles airport on Saturday. It’s publicly accessible flight path showed that it took off from New Delhi on May 28 and reached Dominica via Madrid.PM Browne, who has been vocal about not accepting Choksi back in his country after he was caught in Dominica, said: “My understanding is that [the] Indian government has sent certain documentation from courts in India to confirm that Choksi is indeed a fugitive.”These documents, Browne added, will be utilised in a court case in Dominica, where a judge is hearing the matter and has put a stay on his repatriation till Wednesday.Indian officials are in touch with their counterparts in Dominica to make an attempt to bring him back through the deportation route, because India has no extradition arrangements with the Caribbean country, people tracking developments said in Delhi.But those efforts suffered a temporary setback after the Eastern Caribbean Supreme Court agreed to hear a habeas corpus petition by Choksi’s lawyers, and ordered that he should not be removed from the country until further orders.“The Indian government seems to be going all out to make sure he is repatriated to India to stand trial,” Browne told the FM channel in Antigua. The interview was posted by Antigua Newsroom on its website.On the circumstances under which Choksi reached Dominica, Browne said: “The information that we are getting is that Mehul Choksi may have taken his girlfriend to Dominica probably to have dinner or have a good time and so on and got caught. That would have been a monumental error because in Antigua he is a citizen, we could not deport him.”While Indian officials did not speak about the private jet, they said this was their “window of opportunity” to bring Choksi to India because once he reached Antigua, he will have citizenship rights and the extradition case can linger on for years.An official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, told HT Choksi’s Indian citizenship was never cancelled, which could give an edge to India in Dominica to seek his deportation.Choksi’s disappearance from Antigua and detention in Dominica has caused a political storm in Antigua, where he is citizen.Antiguan PM Browne on Saturday accused the country’s key opposition party – the United Progressive Party (UPP) – of accepting funds from Choksi for its political campaigns.The UPP issued a statement on Saturday in favour of Choksi, saying that he should get his constitutional and legal rights as a citizen of Antigua.Browne hit back at the UPP, saying: “After mischievously accusing my administration of harbouring Mehul Choksi, who has an Interpol Red Notice, they are now seeking to sanitise this fugitive to get campaign funding... There has been no violation of Choksi’s legal and constitutional protections, despite the decision of my administration to revoke his citizenship.”Choksi’s lawyers Wayne Marsh and Vijay Aggarwal have alleged the businessman was abducted from Antigua and tortured on the way to Dominica and in custody.Reacting to Browne’s remarks on Sunday, Aggarwal said: “All these theories of Mehul Choksi fleeing from Antigua voluntarily are opposed to common sense. Firstly, he has a stay in his favour in Antigua. Secondly, I have been informed that his passport is in Antigua only, so nobody will try to escape without having his passport in his pocket. Brutal marks on body and this passport factor now establishes abduction claims.”To be sure, Choksi is currently out of police custody and has been placed at a quarantine facility in Roseau, where he is allowed to meet his lawyers.Dominica has indicated that he will be sent back to Antigua after ascertaining all the facts.The acting police chief , Lincoln Corbette, said on Thursday that Choksi will be sent to Antigua.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jet-sent-to-fly-choksi-to-india-antigua-pm-101622417969339.html
31-05-2021||India||We’re on right track in 7 years of govt: Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday highlighted his government’s achievements in the seven years in which it has been in power, saying that India was on the “right track” and that it did not work as per the “thoughts and pressures” of other nations, but according to its own “resolve”.In his monthly radio broadcast Mann Ki Baat, which coincided with the seventh anniversary of the Modi government at the Centre, the Prime Minister said India has made strides in several areas -- from water and electricity connections in rural households to digital transactions.Also read: Experts fear biodiversity loss in Andaman, Nicobar Islands“All this was possible because in these 7 years, more than as the Government or as the people, we worked together as one country. We worked as a team. We worked as Team India,” he said, adding that his government has worked on the principle of “sabka saath, sabka vikas, sabka vishwas”.The Bharatiya Janata Party-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government was re-elected to power at the Centre in May 2019 with a clear majority of 303 seats, improving its 2014 performance of 282 in the Lok Sabha. The BJP decided to tone down celebrations on the completion of the NDA government’s seven years on Sunday, but asked party leaders to reach out to people in their local areas amid the Covid-19 pandemic.PM Modi invoked national security -- which the BJP-led government says is one of the key areas it has taken a tough stand in -- and said that India has followed its “own conviction”. The country did not give in to”thoughts and pressures” of others, and its armed forces gave a “befitting” reply to those who “conspire” against it, he said.“Together, we have experienced many moments of national pride in these years. When we observe that now India moves ahead not with the thought and pressure of other countries but with her own conviction, then we all feel proud. When we witness that now India gives a befitting reply to those who conspire against us, then our confidence soars. When India does not compromise on the issues of national security, when the strength of our armed forces increases, we feel that yes, we are on the right path,” he said.Also read | Covid-19: What you need to know todayHe said the government has been successful in resolving age-old conflicts. “In these 7 years, many old contestations of the country have also been resolved with complete peace and harmony. A new confidence of peace and development has arisen, from the Northeast to Kashmir.”Modi conceded that along with successes, there were also “trials” and that the country has “overcome many difficult tests”.Speaking of contributions made by people in the trying times of a pandemic raging in the country, the PM said the first wave of Covid-19 infections was a “war” that was fought with “total courage”.“This time too (2nd wave) India will be victorious in the fight against Covid-19… In these 7 years, together we have seen many tough times together but each time we all came out stronger,” he said, adding that the pandemic was a challenge that has gripped the entire world, including big countries.In recent weeks, opposition parties across the country have lashed out at the central government for its handling of the Covid-19 pandemic, which saw a resurgence of cases March onwards, propelled by a complete re-opening of activities, lack of adherence to social distancing norms and more transmissible virus variants. Political parties and state governments have also criticised the government for what they allege is a mismanaged nationwide inoculation drive, with several regions now reporting a shortage of vaccine doses.“You need the right intention, policy and determination to fight Corona (Covid-19) and not just a pointless talk once in a month,” senior Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi on Sunday.Also read| Hotels cannot offer Covid-19 vaccine packages: Centre on viral postIn the 77th edition of his radio address, the Prime Minister lauded the agriculture sector for record produce despite the outbreak. “The agricultural sector protected itself from this attack to a great extent. Not only did it keep itself safe, but the sector also progressed, moving forward,” he said, referring to the resilience of the farm economy.India’s agriculture sector, which employs nearly half the country’s working population, appears to have been unscathed during the second wave, just as it was during the first outbreak in 2020. The country is projected to produce a record 304 million tonne of foodgrains in 2020-21, 2.66% more than the previous year, according to one of the annual projections by the government released last week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/were-on-right-track-in-7-yrs-of-govt-modi-101622415947702.html
31-05-2021||India||Experts fear biodiversity loss in Andaman, Nicobar Islands||A slew of infrastructure projects have been proposed in the Andaman and Nicobar Islands to give a major boost to tourism and business there, according to information released by the central government. While these will transform the islands substantially, experts are worried that this would cause loss of biodiversity and have a negative impact on the indigenous people in the ecologically sensitive islands.Information uploaded on the Union environment ministry’s Parivesh website suggests that multiple infrastructure projects are being considered by an expert appraisal committee (EAC) and a coastal regulation zone (CRZ) committee. Some of these projects include luxury tents and resorts on some islands; two water aerodrome projects in Shaheed and Swaraj islands (formerly Neil and Havelock islands, respectively); two major township and area development projects on the Great Nicobar Island and Little Andaman, one of which is also likely to involve denotification of a tribal reserve.All of this will involve massive land use change in the islands. On May 28, the CRZ committee considered an application by Andaman and Nicobar Islands Integrated Development Corporation (ANIIDCO) to waive off a condition under the CRZ clearance granted to them for developing luxury tents in Aves Island on a public-private partnership mode. One of the CRZ conditions was that all large, medium, and small trees will be counted and geo-referenced and not felled. But now ANIIDCO is seeking an amendment to this clause so that trees may be felled if required.“As a chairman of the committee, I cannot comment on what was discussed or what amendments are being made to the conditions,” said Deepak Apte, chairman of EAC on CRZ.Documents show that the Andaman and Nicobar Coastal Zone Management Authority (ANCZMA) has recommended that the condition be waived off. “ANCZMA is retracting its mandatory precaution by claiming that environment impact assessments do not include ‘tree canopy issues’. Review of proposals under CRZ notification requires scientific rigour and legal basis. They cannot be turned into regulatory convenience resulting in the abdication of responsibility, as has happened in the present case,” said Kanchi Kohli, legal researcher, Centre for Policy Research, a think tank.On Friday, the EAC on infrastructure projects also considered the development of a water aerodrome at Shaheed Island by the Airports Authority of India. Documents available on Parivesh say that a mangrove patch is present 0.9 km to the west of the project site. Only last month, the EAC had raised several concerns about the ecological impact of constructing a water aerodrome at Swaraj Island that would have resulted in the loss of 3,500 square metres of forest land transferred to ANIIDCO. The environment impact assessment report says that the site for the construction of the terminal building (1,568.9 sqm) and associated infrastructure (453.3 sqm) falls partly in mangroves.Two township projects on the Little Andaman Island and the Great Nicobar region conceptualised by Niti Aayog will also be constructed by ANIIDCO.Niti Aayog’s vision document on sustainable development of Little Andaman, seen by HT, says that a certain portion of the 442.5 square kilometre area reserved for the Onge tribe will be de-notified for the Little Andaman township, and another area earmarked for the tribe. “The de-notification of the tribal reserve is being considered by the tribal welfare department,” said a senior ANIIDCO official, refusing to be identified.Andaman and Nicobar Islands chief secretary Jitendra Narain did not respond to HT’s queries.HT reported on May 12 that EAC recommended the Great Nicobar township proposal for grant of terms of reference. Documents revealed that the project was likely to impact turtle and megapode nesting sites and coral reefs. EAC also said that the environmental aspects of the site having many endangered species weren’t given much weightage while selecting it.Kartik Shanker, professor at the Indian Institute of Science’s Centre for Ecological Sciences and a specialist in community ecology and macroecology, and turtle biology, said the islands host tremendous marine biodiversity. “Development is definitely needed in the islands, but it needs to be ecologically sensitive and culturally conscious. These are some of the most important repositories of our biodiversity and ecological heritage and any development must minimise ecological impacts and benefit local communities,” said Shanker.“Nowhere else in India would one find thriving tropical rainforests, mangroves, coral reefs, and other terrestrial and marine ecosystems within a hundred metres of each other. The main livelihood generators of these islands are tourism and fisheries and sustaining them requires maintaining healthy ecosystems,” said Naveen Namboothri, director, Dakshin Foundation, a green NGO.Great Nicobar is home to several endemic species such as the Nicobar megapode and the Nicobar tree shrew.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/experts-fear-biodiversity-loss-in-andaman-nicobar-islands-101622415141217.html
31-05-2021||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||On Saturday, India reported 165,307 cases of the coronavirus disease, the lowest since early April. The rate of fall of reported cases has been almost as sharp as the rate at which they rose through April, before peaking in early May. The numbers put this in context. India reported 81,413 cases of Covid-19 on April 1. By April 11, this climbed to 170,100; by April 15, 216,913. On May 5, the country reported 412,783 cases. The fall has come despite at least one potentially more infectious variant being responsible for some of the surge in cases.The sharpness of the peak of India’s second wave has come as a lifeline for the country’s overwhelmed health care system, but, in general, such abrupt waves suggest extraneous factors at play — with the threat of a flare-up in infections once these factors are removed. The positive way of looking at this, of course, would be that these factors have worked. In the case of India’s second wave, there has been mainly one factor — and it has worked spectacularly.Also read| Wave on wane: Covid deaths at 48-day lowThe factor is the lockdown, or rather, the lockdowns imposed by most states and Union territories across the country. With governments as well as citizens wary about the term — the 68-day-long national lockdown between March 25 and May 31 last year roiled lives and livelihoods, and took a huge toll on the economy — many states have been hesitant about using the term, but a lockdown by any other name works just as well in breaching the chain of infections. The main reason for the sharp fall in daily new cases is this.It’s still not clear why cases continued to rise gradually through last year’s hard lockdown. Till March 25 last year, the first day of the lockdown, India had recorded only 657 cases of the coronavirus disease. On June 1, the first day after the nationwide lockdown was relaxed, this number was 198,220. Still, that was at a time — it seems so long ago — when most people in the country had not been exposed to the virus (sero-prevalence or antibody surveys now put the number as high as 50% in some parts of the country), when the disease was still largely an urban phenomenon, and when there was no vaccine (even on the horizon).Today, India has three vaccines.Till April 1, 49.2 million Indians had received just one dose of the vaccines and 9.5 million had been fully vaccinated. On April 11, these numbers were 78.5 million and 13 million; on April 15, 87.4 million and 14.8 million, and on May 5, 99.4 million and 31.5 million. On Saturday (May 29), these numbers were 123 million and 44.4 million. The size of the population currently eligible for vaccines is 940 million, which means around 18% of the eligible population has some form of protection against the virus. I’ve written previously that 40% plus non pharmaceutical interventions (masks, social distancing, a complete ban on large events, irrespective of whether they are social, cultural, or religious) will actually work almost as well as vaccine-proffered herd immunity (which is actually the only desirable kind of herd immunity), although the results will be very clear even at 25%.Also read: China feels Covid heat as study backs lab theorySlow as India’s vaccine drive has been, it is possible that at least some of the fall in cases is the result of vaccinations. If that’s the case, it’s all the more reason for the country to accelerate its vaccine drive, with an eye on that 40% number — around 375 million people who have received at least one dose of the vaccine. At that level, with non pharmaceutical interventions in place (it’s the reason Hindustan Times has repeatedly called for Class 12 board exams to be scrapped), and with the vaccinations gathering even more momentum as supplies increase (they are expected to, starting July or August), the country could very well aim at a return to normalcy.Still, that’s several months away. With the second wave ebbing, many states and Union territories have started to partially relax lockdowns and ease restrictions on movement and activities this week. They would do well to remember how we got here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-what-you-need-to-know-today-101622412886676.html
31-05-2021||India||Need to revisit growth path amid climate crisis||Cyclones Yaas and Tauktae have caused enormous damage on Indian coasts.They won’t be the last cyclones to maraud us as climate change intensifies. We have been dealt an unfair hand, but we must face it.Our model till date has prevented loss of life and help impacted persons to rebuild. India cannot afford this anymore, because we will be hit by more frequent, more severe cyclones in the coming years. Know this: 170 million, a seventh of our population, lives along coasts. If they lose their assets, savings and livelihoods repeatedly, they will plunge into intense poverty, if they are not already there.Nature-based solutions can help mitigate this dire scenario. But that needs a fundamental shift in how we view nature. The popular understanding of it is as either a hindrance or a basket of goodies to extract, sets it up as a system to be vanquished and devoured. In reality, nature is inherently a basket of goodies via its eco-system services and its very presence.There’s much investment required into researching specific solutions for each of India’s 70 coastal districts. Each cradles a range of biodiversity, culture and is differently vulnerable.Yet, each should plan along accepted ideas include preserving, improving or re-wilding mangroves, swamps, lagoons and sandy dunes and beaches. This can’t co-exist with infrastructure development that needs them out of the way.Nature needs precedence. India may not have contributed to the climate crisis but we must drastically re-think our growth path to adapt to it.(The writer is founder and director of Chintan Environmental Research and Action Group)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/need-to-revisit-growth-path-amid-climate-crisis-101622409967666.html
31-05-2021||India||Wave on wane: Covid deaths at 48-day low||Daily Covid-19 fatalities in the national capital fell to their lowest in 48 days on Sunday, as the waning infection count continued to reflect in the city’s decreasing death toll. The city also added fewer than 1,000 new infections for the second consecutive day, while the test positivity rate remained below 2%.The health bulletin issued by the state government on Sunday shows that 78 people died of the viral infection in the previous 24 hours — the fewest since April 12, when the city saw 72 people succumb to the infection, at a time when cases and deaths were surging as the Capital bore the brunt of a brutal fourth wave of infections. It was also the first time in 46 days that the Covid toll dropped below 100.So far, 24,151 people in Delhi have died of Covid-19, state government records said. Over 13,100 of these deaths have been recorded in April and May alone, data showed.Delhi also added 946 new infections on Sunday, a marginal dip from 956 cases the previous day. The seven-day average of infections, known as case trajectory, dropped to its lowest in 64 days, with the city adding less than 1,250 infections each day over the past week. As on Sunday, Delhi’s case trajectory has dropped for 30 consecutive days.While daily cases began to drop around the second week of May, deaths have not reduced at the same rate, since any drop in case trajectory generally take 14 days to reflect on daily deaths. Studies have shown that the median time between someone testing positive for Covid-19 and dying from it is around 13.8 days.Meanwhile, the test positivity rate, a crucial metric to understand the spread of an infection in a region, remained below 2% for the fifth day in a row. The Capital on Sunday recorded a test positivity rate of 1.25% on the back of over 75,000 tests.As a rule of thumb, tracking a region’s positivity rate serves as a good barometer for whether cases are going to increase or decrease in the coming days: a rising positivity rate generally means cases will rise in the immediate future, while a dropping one tends to precede a drop in new infections.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19The World Health Organization (WHO) recommends that the positivity rate from a region that has a comprehensive testing programme should be at or below 5% for at least two weeks before it can be considered that the outbreak is under control. In Delhi, this number has been below the threshold for eight days now.While experts acknowledged as positive the drop in cases and deaths, they reiterated the importance of vaccinations to prevent surges in future.Dr Jugal Kishore, head of the community medicines department in Delhi’s Safdarjung Hospital, said: “We can safely say that the fourth wave of Covid-19 is over in Delhi. Deaths are also likely to come down because Delhi has recorded a steep decline in cases for over two weeks now. But we have to scale up vaccination at this stage. Supply shortages cannot be an excuse. Governments will together have to work towards resolving that. As cases come down and the positivity rate declines significantly, the number of tests is likely to witness some decline. It follows a natural course. But the government should have its testing infrastructure in place – and make best use of its wide network of dispensaries and mohalla clinics."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/wave-on-wane-covid-deaths-at-48-day-low-101622405953208.html
31-05-2021||India||Covid-19: 4 states extend curbs; some ease restrictions||Even as the Covid-19 situation seems to be easing across the country, several states like Maharashtra, Odisha, Telangana and Haryana decided on Sunday to extend the Covid-induced lockdown for another week to a fortnight to safeguard the gains made so far and further arrest the spread of the virus, while Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Jammu and Kashmir have announced certain relaxations in the curbs.Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday extended the lockdown in the state by 15 days, saying that Covid-19 cases continued to surge in rural areas. “The drop in Covid-19 cases is still not as expected,” he added.Maharashtra is among the six states which have more than one lakh active cases of Covid-19, according to the Union health ministry. On Sunday, the state recorded 18,600 new cases, the lowest daily tally of infection since March 16, when the state recorded 17,864 in a day.The Odisha government, too, announced an extension of the lockdown till June 17. “The lockdown is primarily aimed at restricting movement of people and not goods. All restrictions and exemptions of the previous lockdowns will be implemented in the third phase, too,” Chief Secretary Suresh Mohapatra said. The state has so far reported 756,684 cases and 2,772 deaths.The Telangana Cabinet extended the ongoing lockdown by another 10 days, with certain relaxations from 6 am to 1 pm, said an official statement from the office of chief minister K Chandrashekhar Rao. .The state has so far reported 575,827 cases and 3,263 deaths.In Haryana, the government extended the lockdown by a week till June 7, even as it relaxed curbs imposed on shop timings and malls.Also read: Find Covid-19 origin or face another pandemic, US experts warnChief minister Manohar Lal Khattar said while the Covid-19 situation has improved in the state, the “Mahamari Alert/Surkshit Haryana” lockdown has been extended till 5 am on June 7 with some more relaxations.He said shops which were earlier allowed to open as per odd-even basis from 7 am to 12 pm will now be open from 9 am to 3 pm. The state has so far reported 755,389 cases and 8,221 deaths.Meanwhile, Uttar Pradesh on Sunday announced relaxation of lockdown in districts that currently have less than 600 active Covid cases starting from June 1. The easing, however, would not be implemented in 20 districts where active cases are over 600.Chief secretary R K Tiwari said shops and markets outside containment zones can open from June 1 from 7 am to 7 pm (Monday to Friday). Night curfew will remain in place.The Jammu and Kashmir administration has also started the unlock process in the Union Territory, limiting the ‘corona curfew’ to night hours and weekends only, said chief secretary B V R Subrahmanyam.Madhya Pradesh government, too, said that the unlock process in the state will start from June 1 with certain restrictions. “The district crises management group will take decisions as per positivity rate in their districts,” said Rajesh Rajora, additional chief secretary (home).India recorded a single-day rise of 153,486 new Covid-19 cases, taking the country’s infection tally to 28,046,927, according to the HT dashboard till Sunday. The daily positivity declined to 8% on Saturday from over 25% in towards the end of April when the second wave hit its peak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-4-states-extend-curbs-some-ease-restrictions-101622404705192.html
31-05-2021||India||Hotels cannot offer Covid-19 vaccine packages: Centre on viral post||As a social media post of a famous hotel chain offering a vaccination package in Hyderabad’s Hitec city went viral with several political leaders pointing out the disparity in the vaccine situation of the country, the Union health ministry said administrative action will be taken against such hotels and private hospitals agreeing to sell the vaccines.In a letter addressed to all states and Union territories, the health ministry reiterated that four avenues for vaccination are permitted — government Covid vaccination centres, private centres run by private hospitals, workplace vaccination centres run by either government or private hospitals, and special centres at housing societies, community centres, panchayat bhawans, schools/colleges and old age homes.All such programmes being carried out in hotels need to be stopped immediately, it said.The advertisement which went viral announced a vaccine package starting at ₹2,999 including a comfortable stay, vaccination by experts from a renowned hospital, a healthy breakfast and dinner, on-request clinical consultation and Wi-Fi.AAP leader Raghav Chadha shared one such post and said the Centre has facilitated such a vaccination package by ensuring a steady supply to private hospitals, while state-run centres which offer free vaccination have no stock.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hotels-cannot-offer-covid-19-vaccine-packages-centre-on-viral-post-101622402289914.html
31-05-2021||India||Spoke for Goa’s rights, don’t need to apologise: TN finance minister||Chennai: Tamil Nadu’s finance minister Palanivel Thiagarajan on Sunday denied Goa’s transport minister Mouvin Godhino charges that he had insulted Goans at the 43rd  GST Council meeting held on Friday. He also refused to tender an apology as demanded by Godhino stating that he advocated for Goa’s state rights at the meeting. Godhino, who represented the Goa government in the GST council chaired by Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, during a press conference on Saturday said that Thiagarajan had commented that Goa is a small state with a small population and bigger states should be given more attention. Godhino demanded his apology and asked for Tamil Nadu chief minister M K Stalin to condemn his behaviour. On Saturday, Thiagarajan spoke to reporters outside the secretariat and said that states with a high population like Uttar Pradesh and Maharashtra didn’t get adequate time to represent their concerns. Without naming Goa, he said that the voice of a ‘tiny state’ whose population is just half of Madurai district was heard ‘10 times’ than what was needed. “That state got more opportunity than many other big states.” he said. Stating that one vote for one state model of the GST council is unfair, he said that voting value should be based on the state’s population or its manufacturing capability, consumption, per capita income. Thiagarajan, in a statement questioned if Godhino is ‘limited in comprehension, in honesty, or both’. He said that Godhino was against lowering GST on Covid-19 related drugs and vaccines from 5% to 0% on humanitarian grounds. “He spoke for many times the length of the inputs from the honorable minister from Uttar Pradesh, a state of over 2 million citizens and indeed every other state,” Thiagarajan said leaving it to the public to decide whether that serves India, and its democracy. Thiagarajan said his speech in the meeting was guided by the Dravidian tenet of local-self governance. He cited the example of including Extra Neutral Alcohol (ENA) into GST and away from state taxation would have yielded revenue to Tamil Nadu, which is a net importer, at the cost of states such as Uttar Pradesh, which are net exporters. “Even when the principle resulted in the loss of potential future revenue to Tamil Nadu, we backed states that voted for this exception, including Uttar Pradesh, Arunachal Pradesh and ironically, Goa,” he said. He added that they also backed Sikkim to levy a special cess within its borders to raise funds for Covid-19 control measures. “...and by extension the right of any state, big or small to do so,” he said. Following the GST council meeting, Tamil Nadu hasn’t figured in the group of ministers constituted on May 29 to examine the issue of GST concessions/exempt to Covid relief material. Lok Sabha MP D Ravikumar, of Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi (VCK) and ally of the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) called this discrimination and asked for Tamil Nadu’s finance minister to also be included in the panel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/spoke-for-goa-s-rights-don-t-need-to-apologise-tn-finance-minister-101622401362398.html
31-05-2021||India||39 dead due to black fungus: Govt||Bengaluru At least 39 persons are suspected to have died due to Mucormycosis, commonly known as black fungus, in Karnataka, according to data released by the state government on Sunday. Dharwad, about 450 kms from Bengaluru, has so far registered at least eight suspected deaths while Shivamogga recorded five and Kalaburagi four. Bengaluru has reported at least 3 deaths due to black fungus, data shows. “Even though it has been stated that there have been 30-35 deaths due to black fungus, we have instructed that a proper death audit will be done,” Dr K Sudhakar, Karnataka’s minister for health, family welfare and medical education said in a statement on Sunday. The sharp spike in cases of black fungus adds to the challenges of the Covid-19 pandemic in Karnataka and other places across the country where the disease has been detected. Karnataka has so far recorded 1250 cases of black fungus, according to the state government. Of this 1,193 patients are currently undergoing treatment and 18 of them have been cured, data shows. Sudhakar said that around 8,000 to 10,000 vials of Amphotericin B, a drug used to treat those infected by black fungus have been allocated to Karnataka. The state has also set up a task force specifically to look into the growing number of black fungus cases. According to the data, there are 521 cases of black fungus recorded in Bengaluru, 119 in Dharwad, 102 in Kalaburagi, 68 in Bagalkote and 57 in Vijayapura. The cause of white and black fungus, both distinguished by their pigmentation, has been attributed, among other reasons, to the possibility of contamination either due to low-quality cylinders or low-quality piping systems at intensive care units of the hospital. Authorities are even trying to see if there has been contamination at the industry level from where the oxygen is being supplied due to improper sterilization or any other reasons. It may be also due to the usage of ordinary tap water in ventilators, according to officials. Meanwhile, Karnataka saw its positivity rate dip to 14.68% as 20,378 new Covid infections were reported on Sunday, according to the daily health bulletin of the state government. At least 28,053 persons have recovered in the state, which has brought down the total number of active cases to 342,010, the bulletin stated. Bengaluru accounted for 4,734 new infections and 6,078 recoveries in India’s IT capital, which brings down its active caseload to 162,625. The state recorded 382 fatalities in a single day of which Bengaluru accounts for 213, it added. Fatality rate stood at 1.87%. The state has seen the second wave prolong its stay as it records a slower vaccination drive. “Karnataka is No.1 state in south India in vaccination drive. The drive will move faster as vaccine delivery is picking pace, thanks to GOI support. State received the following on May 29 under the GOI quota: 80,000 doses of COVAXIN. 2,17,310 doses of COVISHIELD,” Sudharkar said in a post on Twitter. Karnataka has so far administered 13,396,169 doses of vaccines in the state of which the second dose accounts for 2,726,385, according to data. 51,679 doses administered till 3.30 pm on Sunday of which 5,417 were second doses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/39-dead-due-to-black-fungus-govt-101622401123459.html
31-05-2021||India||Political slugfest in K’taka over graft allegations||Bengaluru: An allegation that began with the “bribe-for-bed” scam has spiralled into an all-out political slugfest in Karnataka, with serious charges levelled by the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the opposition Congress party in the state against each other.The political battle in Karnataka over the management, or lack of it, during the raging Covid-19 pandemic among other issues, has now become a focal point of all discourse in the southern state that continues to remain firmly in the grip of the pandemic.The latest in the series of allegations and its counters is that a BJP MLA has been taking a commission from a private hospital for vaccinations.Ravi Subramanya, the BJP’s three-time legislator from Basavanagudi in Bengaluru south, said that a hospital that gets the vaccine from the company or another source by paying the price of it includes handling charges and other costs. He asks how a private hospital that charges ₹850 to ₹900 per dose gives a commission of ₹700.“It is a political game. Such things normally happen during elections. But this has begun much earlier,” Subramanya told Hindustan Times.“For a few days, they targeted Tejaswi Surya then they went for Satish Reddy (BJP MLA from Bommanahalli), and then they came for me. I don’t know who is next,” he added.Surya, Reddy, Subramanya, and one more BJP legislator had barged into the Bengaluru south war room and levelled allegations against a few persons for blocking beds illegally and then selling them for astronomical prices.However, the incident took a communal twist as all 17 persons named out a list of 205 persons working in the war room, were muslims, and Subramanya was heard questioning officials “if it was a Madarasa”.Surya continues to be part of several paid-vaccination drives with private hospitals while a person, alleged to be a close aide of the legislator, has been arrested over the bribe-for-bed scam.The allegations have further dented the image of the Yediyurappa-led state government which is already struggling not only to control the raging pandemic but also finds itself amid a possible power struggle between the party and the chief minister over the possible ouster of the latter.“There was no effort to look into the allegations and set the processes right. Instead, it became an effort to target those who made the allegations,” said a BJP legislator, requesting anonymity, hinting that the three legislators were being targeted by the Yediyurappa-led government itself.The inadequate financial package of ₹1250 crore, an almost non-existent cabinet, and infighting within the government has also weighed on the performance of BJP-ruled Karnataka.For Congress, the allegations have replenished their growing arsenal to take on the ruling BJP which appears to be on the defensive over the developments.The Congress in Karnataka listed the scams which include bed hire, PM cares, purchase of medical equipment, food kit, and vaccine blocking among others.“Death figures in Karnataka continue to cry loud of BJP’s inefficiency in taking care of our people with 492 lives lost to Covid yesterday. #BJPVaccineScam is the reason the Govt refuses to budge to #LetCongressVaccinate. They want to make a profit out of people’s misery,” DK Shivakumar, the president of the Congress party in Karnataka said in a post on Twitter.He added that the vaccination drive in Karnataka was “95% failure” and only 5% of the eligible persons were fully vaccinated, saying that the people of the state deserve better.“Vaccines are available in private hospitals & hotels if you pay @BJP4Karnataka MLAs or MPs, but not in Govt hospitals which cater to the poor & lower income groups. #ModiMadeDisaster,” Priyank Kharge, former minister and Congress legislator from Kalaburagi district said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/political-slugfest-in-k-taka-over-graft-allegations-101622401064843.html
31-05-2021||India||Odisha extends lockdown till June 17 as 12 districts record high TPR||With 12 of 30 districts recording a TPR more than the state average over last week, the Odisha government on Sunday extended the statewide lockdown till June 17 to bring the Covid-19 surge in rural areas under control.Making the announcement, chief secretary Suresh Mohapatra said during the lockdown, all the usual restrictions will continue to be strictly imposed. Weekend shutdown beginning from Friday evening till Monday morning will also be enforced. Amid the second wave of Covid-19, the Odisha government imposed a statewide lockdown from May 5 to May 19 and then extended it till June 1“Odisha had to face a twin crisis of Cyclone Yaas and Covid-19 during last week. Cyclone Yaas battered parts of North Odisha and north coastal Odisha. Though the positivity rate has dropped in the state, we are still at risk of the spread of Covid-19 infection. Therefore the state government has decided to extend lockdown for 16 more days,” said Mahapatra, urging people not to venture into local markets for shopping ahead of the Raja and Savitri festival in June.Additional chief secretary of health, PK Mohapatra said though Odisha recorded its Covid-19 peak of second wave on May 22 with 12,858 positive cases, there are still fears of transmission of the virus from neighbouring Andhra Pradesh and West Bengal where Covid-19 cases are still high.Dhenkanal with a weekly average of 37.2 per cent TPR still continued to be a cause for worry for the state government as much as Bhadrak with 36.55 per cent and Cuttack at 33 per cent. Other districts who reported higher TPR than state weekly average of 15.86 are Balasore (30.33), Khurdah (29.12), Jajpur (23.80), Puri (22.32), Boudh (21.53), Angul (19.91), Mayurbhanj (18.81), Jagatsinghpur (18.62) and Kendrapara (17.76). The health secretary said 9 districts of Khurdah, Cuttack, Angul, Sundargarh, Puri, Mayurbhanj, Jajpur, Balasore and Bargarh accounted for 60% of the total number of Covid-19 cases.In Dhenkanal, half a dozen villages have been declared containment zones after a huge number of positive cases were detected. Officials said most of the infected people attended community feasts over the last fortnight.The state government, however, relaxed the weekday lockdown hours in Nuapada, Gajapati and Sundargarh districts where the Covid-19 cases have drastically reduced and TPR too came down considerably over the last week. In these districts people can buy essential commodities between 6 am to 1 pm instead of 6 am to 10 am window available to people of other districts. The government said there has been a decline in Covid-19 positive cases in western Odisha districts bordering Chhattisgarh and Jharkhand.The health secretary said the Covid-19 situation in Odisha was improving as occupancy of general beds has dropped from 52% to 46% and that of the critical care beds from 82% to 72%.“Today, 86% of active cases in Odisha are in Home Isolation. We are adding another 368 ICU beds, and 70 HDU beds very soon. Odisha is self-sufficient in terms of drugs for Covid-19 treatment and medical oxygen supply. Our requirement is 67 metric tonnes of oxygen per day for hospitals are being met. Besides, medical oxygen from Odisha is being supplied to 18 states and so far 25,000 tonnes of LMO have been transported out of Odisha,” he said.So far 30% people in 45+ age groups in Odisha have been vaccinated. But vaccination drive for the 18-44 age group has not gathered much pace due to lack of enough vaccines. So far vaccination drive for the 18-44 age group is being carried out in 5 municipal corporations and 6 district headquarters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-extends-lockdown-till-june-17-as-12-districts-record-high-tpr-101622400582932.html
31-05-2021||India||Tamil Nadu CM Stalin wears PPE kit to Coimbatore’s Covid-19 ward to boost morale of staff||Tamil Nadu chief minister MK Stalin on Sunday wore a PPE suit over his traditional white shirt and veshti to visit patients inside a Covid-19 ward at ESI Medical College and Hospital in Coimbatore district. He interacted with the patients as well as doctors and nurses treating them.“This will give confidence and a boost to medical workers and their families,” Stalin told reporters in Coimbatore. “We know how difficult it is to wear a PPE kit and it is praiseworthy that these doctors and nurses wear this for such long hours to do their work.”Later, he tweeted these photos and said that he went into the treatment wards against advice. “...to reassure frontline workers, the victims and their families and doctors who risk their lives,” he tweeted in Tamil. “Besides medicine, the comfort and consolation that others provide will cure the disease.”A few days ago, Coimbatore surpassed Chennai with the highest number of new cases of Covid-19 in the state. Coimbatore’s adjoining districts such as Tirupur, Erode and Salem are also reporting a high number of cases. This is the second time that Stalin is inspecting virus control measures in this region since he took over as chief minister earlier this month. He was accompanied by health minister M Subramanian and other officials. He later held a review meeting with officials on the measures undertaken and facilities available. On May 30, Coimbatore reported 3,537 new Covid-19 cases and 47 new deaths taking the total number of overall cases in Tamil Nadu to 20,68,580 and 23,754 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-cm-stalin-wears-ppe-kit-to-coimbatore-s-covid-19-ward-to-boost-morale-of-staff-101622399443257.html
31-05-2021||India||Petrol prices cross ₹100 mark in Rajasthan||Petrol prices in all 33 districts of Rajasthan crossed the ₹100 mark on Sunday, with Ganganagar registering the highest at ₹104.95 per litre, the state government informed.Chief minister Ashok Gehlot criticised the Centre for the constant hike in fuel prices and inflation and said the common man is now trapped in a “web of inflation woven by the Modi government”.“The common man is already disturbed due to Covid and declining income, and the Modi government is creating more trouble with inflation,” he said.The chief minister said the Centre has been constantly reducing excise duty on petrol and diesel where every state had a share and imposing special excise duty and additional excise duty to fill its coffers. He added that one-third of the income of the central government is due to taxes on petrol and diesel.“When the central government was supposed to give relief by reducing tax on petrol and diesel, it imposed a new tax in this year’s budget. This has increased transportation charges, due to which inflation is increasing,” Gehlot said.In the last 26 days, fuel prices have been hiked 15 times. On Saturday, price was hiked by 0.27 paise on petrol and 0.30 paise on diesel.Rajasthan Petroleum Dealers’ Association president Suneet Bagai said petrol prices have crossed ₹100 for the first time in the history of the state.He added that when the international crude oil prices go up by 10 paise, the cost in India goes up by over three times.The consumer pays around 262% taxes on the basic price, which is the highest in the world, Bagai said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/petrol-prices-cross-100-mark-in-rajasthan-101622399384670.html
31-05-2021||India||‘Choksi still Indian citizen’: ED’s likely line of argument in court||India’s Enforcement Directorate will argue in the High Court of Dominica that Choksi remains an Indian citizen, although he has a passport issued by Antigua and Barbuda, is in Dominica illegally, is accused of fraud and money laundering in India, with enough evidence of the same, has an Interpol Red Corner Notice against his name, and that he should therefore be deported to India.HT learns that ED will present to the court detailed evidence of Choksi’s wrongdoings, where his companies Gitanjali Gems, Giri, and Nakshatra defrauded the Punjab National Bank. India’s Central Bureau of Investigation and ED are investigating the case, which goes back at least a decade, and involves the issue of so-called letters of undertaking to Choksi’s companies, which he used, along with a clutch of shell entities registered in countries such as Hong Kong, which has emerged as one of the epicenters of his web, to divert money overseas. Investigations have traced at least $500 million of such diversions from HK, HT learns.Also read: Indian jet in Dominica for Choksi, he went out of Antigua with girlfriend: Gaston BrowneChoksi’s nephew Nirav Modi was his partner in this operation. While Choksi fled India for Antigua and Barbuda, Modi fled to London, where legal extradition proceedings against him are continuing, with India winning many of the initial battles.But the key part of ED’s argument, HT learns, will be that while Choksi surrendered his Indian passport in September 2018 in Georgetown Guyana, this was not accepted and the surrender documents were not signed by the prescribed authority. ED will argue, citing Rule 23 of India’s Citizenship Act, that the prescribed authority in this case is the ministry of home affairs.“It is ludicrous, as even a first-year law student knows that as per Section 9 of the Citizenship Act, a person ceases to be an Indian citizen the moment he acquires citizenship of any other country. We are talking of citizenship, not some ration card which can be asked to be returned,” said Vijay Aggarwal, Choksi’s lawyer.Antigua and Barbuda is unlikely to make a case for deporting Choksi back to the country — the country’s government is fighting two cases against the fugitive in the courts, including one over the revocation of his citizenship.A central government official confirmed that Choksi’s Indian citizenship was not cancelled. The move of Choksi surrendering his Indian citizenship was never accepted, the official said on condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/choksi-still-indian-citizen-ed-s-likely-line-of-argument-in-court-101622399322138.html
31-05-2021||India||Audio clips hint at Sasikala’s plans to return to AIADMK after Covid-19||At a time when the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) is yet to come to terms with its defeat in the recently concluded assembly elections, which saw them losing power in Tamil Nadu after 10 years, the party is facing another challenge, this time from the expelled interim party general secretary VK Sasikala, whose two leaked audio clips hinted at her intentions to regain her footing in the party.In the leaked audio clips, Sasikala can be heard talking to party cadre over the phone, saying she would be back soon and set everything right. The development comes at a time when the rift between AIADMK’s dual leadership of Edappadi Palaniswami and O Panneerselvam is becoming public.In one call, Sasikala is purportedly heard saying, “Don’t worry. We will definitely set everything right. You all be brave. I will come after corona is over.” One of her supporters, Lawrence, tells her that a whole group was waiting for her return, and they would back her. In a second call with a supporter named Vinod Suresh, Sasikala says she is disheartened to see the fights in the AIADMK. “We will make a decision shortly and come soon. Don’t worry. It hurts to see them fight. We made this party grow with a lot of difficulties so I cannot just watch it go to waste. Very soon I will come. Once corona is over, I will meet everyone.” Suresh, from Thanjavur district, then responds, saying he had attended her rally and that they are all shattered after losing the elections. Suresh added that they were waiting for her decision.An associate in Sasikala’s team, who did not wish to be identified, confirmed it was Sasikala’s conversations and that she didn’t know the call was being recorded.“We have been receiving a lot of letters from the AIADMK and Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam (AMMK) cadre. Some of them have written with their blood,” he said, adding, “Instead of writing back, she called them. She just spoke from her heart. Once Covid-19 is over, she is planning to meet them.”Sasikala’s moves are being closely watched as she was the most powerful behind-the-scenes operator in the AIADMK for close to three decades when Jayalalithaa was at the helm of the party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/audio-clips-hint-at-sasikala-s-plans-to-return-to-aiadmk-after-covid19-101622399262161.html
31-05-2021||India||Sorabjee inspired me to continue in legal profession: CJI Ramana||Chief Justice of India (CJI) NV Ramana on Sunday said that late eminent jurist Soli Sorabjee was among those who inspired him to continue in the legal profession, adding that in his demise, the country had lost one of the greatest legal minds and a champion of human rights. Sorabjee, a recipient of the Padma Vibhushan who twice served as Attorney General, passed away due to Covid-19 on April 30.Speaking at a virtual event organised in memory of Sorabjee, CJI Ramana recalled meeting him in 1988 to discuss a case involving the then chief minister of Andhra Pradesh. Sorabjee was thorough with facts and after a five-minute briefing, the two questions he asked were the ones posed by the bench the next day.“I thought I had seen a prophet in action… I must admit that he was one of those who inspired me to continue in this profession,” the CJI said.Supreme Court judge Justice UU Lalit described Sorabjee as a “great package” who had a love for life, particularly his passion for jazz, poetry and literature. “He was the best guardian of the fortress of free speech and expression who excelled in all branches of law,” Justice Lalit added.The fact that a viral infection led to Sorabjee’s end was ironical, said Justice DY Chandrachud, who also spoke at the memorial hosted by Sorabjee family – wife Zena, daughter Zia and sons Jehangir and Hormazd.Justice Chandrachud said, “If you are in his chamber and you had a (common) cold, you ran the risk of being thrown out and it is so ironical that it was a virus that got him in the end.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sorabjee-inspired-me-to-continue-in-legal-profession-cji-ramana-101622399202659.html
31-05-2021||India||Amid oil price rise, Centre to distribute free oilseeds||India’s policymakers, alarmed by the growing prices of edible oils due to high import costs of oilseeds, have decided to re-use a Green Revolution-era strategy of distributing free seed packets, say officials familiar with the move. They hope this would shoot up domestic production of oilseeds and reduce the over-reliance on imports. However, experts say that an idea of 1960s vintage may not produce the desired results today.The Narender Singh Tomar-led Union agriculture ministry is giving away thousands of free packets of high-quality oilseeds to farmers in nearly a third of the country’s districts for the kharif (summer crops) season beginning next month. This plan was discussed with the state governments in April.“The government is giving out nearly 800,000 soybean seed mini-kits and 74,000 groundnut mini-kits to farmers to raise production,” said an official requesting anonymity.Just like pulses, India relies on imports to meet its edible oil demand. On an average, the annual demand for edible oils is about 24 million tonnes. While domestic output varies between 8 and 11 million tonnes, up to 60% of the demand is met through imports. High global prices over the past two months have made cooking oil the priciest item in the household food basket.Consumer affairs ministry’s data from a year ago show oil prices have risen by up to 60%. The average cost of a litre of mustard oil rose to ₹170 in May as compared to ₹120 in the corresponding period last year. Similarly, prices of groundnut oil, soya oil, palm oil and sunflower oil are at a decade’s high.The government plans to bring a 6.37 lakh hectare area under oilseed cultivation. This should lead to an output of 12 million quintals of oilseeds, resulting in 2.43 million quintals of edible oil.This strategy had paid dividends for Indian agriculture earlier when the offer of free, high-yielding wheat and rice seeds had worked to stir up the Green Revolution. But experts say that the strategy worked because the farmers didn’t have to worry about selling their produce as the government was an assured buyer. With oilseeds, it may not work as free seeds without a supporting procurement framework and other incentives may not nudge cereal-focused farmers to shift to oilseeds, they say.“The government resorts to mostly token procurement of oilseeds, which has gone up slightly in recent years,” said K S Mani, a farm economist.With high global prices, farmers are likely to grow more oilseeds this year, leading to a glut, and, consequentially, a price crash — a pattern seen repeatedly with many commodities in the country.BV Mehta of Solvent Extractors Association of India, an oilseeds industry body, said the government should offer farmers financial incentives in hard cash per acre for shifting from cereals — of which there is a glut — to oilseeds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-oil-price-rise-centre-to-distribute-free-oilseeds-101622399202133.html
31-05-2021||India||MPs’ scheme for model villages lags amid Covid||A programme that allows parliamentarians to develop villages has tasted limited success so far, but holds the key for many lawmakers as an alternative to the MPLAD (Member of Parliament Local Area Development) scheme, which has been stalled for two years due to the Covid-19 pandemic, according to officials in the know.The Sansad Adarsh Gram Yojna (SAGY) was launched in 2014 to develop model villages with various social, economic and environmental amenities. The MPs would pick a village in their parliamentary area every year to turn it into a model village.The scheme has, so far, seen a lukewarm response. The official data shows 2,111 gram panchayats have so far been identified under this programme and of that, 1,618 have prepared their development plans. A total of 79,316 activities have been planned for these villages, of which 49,756 have been completed.The official data also shows that phase 2 of the SGSY has seen an even weaker response than the first. In all states except Haryana and Tripura, the second phase saw fewer villages being adopted.Rural development secretary NN Sinha said, “This is not a flop programme but it will take some time to get the results. It requires a lot of focus and long-term goals of all stakeholders, especially the panchayats to make this programme a success, especially in those places that are far behind in terms of progress and amenities.”While the MPLAD scheme brings additional funds of ₹1 crore every year to an MP and he or she is free to spend on a public project anywhere in the constituency, the SGAY doesn’t come with any extra money. “Prime Minister Narendra Modi rightly decided that no extra money would be given and the projects or works would be done from existing government programmes,” said another senior official.The non-availability of additional funds, Sinha argues, is not a dampener but gives a level playing field for other villages. “Other panchayats too can emulate the projects in the model scheme and avail them in their villages.”A Rajya Sabha MP, who didn’t wish to be identified, said, “While the MPLAD had a much wider dimension, the SGAY assumes importance in the post-Covid situation when rural India would require more amenities and development.”Under the programme, a variety of schemes can be sanctioned for a model village. “From building roads, schools to skill development programmes, installing hand pumps or even environmental programmes can be adopted,” said the senior official cited above.Union government officials maintained that while the MPs act as a catalyst in this scheme, the programme’s improvement essentially depends on panchayat leaders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mps-scheme-for-model-villages-lags-amid-covid-101622399142110.html
31-05-2021||India||Woman held for killing brothers she was in relationships with||A 40-year-old woman, who allegedly killed her husband with the help of her brother-in-law five years ago, was apprehended for also murdering the brother-in-law to marry another man in Bhopal, said police on Sunday.Police officials said the woman confessed to killing her husband five years ago to be in a relationship with her brother-in-law after she was interrogated on Friday over the latest murder.Police officials said they have arrested the 40-year-old resident of Damkheda area of Bhopal and her tenant Rajesh Bisoriya under section 302 (murder) and 201 (causing disappearance of evidence of offence or giving false information to screen offender) of the Indian Penal Code. Police also apprehended the woman’s son (15) and daughter (16) in connection with the case, said Irshad Wali, deputy inspector general of police, Bhopal.HT is not disclosing the identity of the woman or her brother-in-law as it would also give away the identities of her minor children. Police said the children appeared to have helped their mother and Bisoriya in the latest murder. “The five-year-old mystery of her husband was resolved after the woman, along with her kids and tenant, beat the brother-in-law to death and the body was thrown near a residential locality on Friday,” Wali said. Police on Friday recovered the body, which was partly eaten by stray dogs and pigs.During interrogation, the woman confessed not only to the killing of her brother-in-law, but also told police that she murdered her husband five years ago to be in a relationship with the brother-in-law. Police said she was now in relationship with her tenant and her brother-in-law, who used to live with her, objected to it.“She said she wanted to leave her specially-abled husband to marry his brother, but her husband was not ready to divorce her and used to beat her. Five years ago, the woman and her brother-in-law strangulated the woman’s husband to death. The kids, then 10- and 11-year-old, saw their father’s murder but the woman and the brother-in-law threatened them with dire consequences, if they told anyone about the murder,” said police officer.They buried the husband’s body in the house and the incident was never reported to the police. After her recent confession, police on Saturday exhumed the remains the husband.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/woman-held-for-killing-brothers-she-was-in-relationships-with-101622399082842.html
31-05-2021||India||‘Weakest govt’: Opposition slams 7-year BJP rule||The Opposition on Sunday attacked the Centre for allegedly failing to fulfil its responsibilities and triggering crises at various fronts as the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government marked the seventh anniversary of its tenure.The Congress said the Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led government’s seven years in power could be summed up in seven “criminal wrongdoings”, accusing the Centre of bringing in a financial crisis, triggering large-scale unemployment and mismanaging the Covid crisis.“In the last seven years, the Modi government has given the country immeasurable pain. It has been seven years since the country got a failed, and mindless government. The country is suffering as unemployment rate reached 11.3% in 7 years. Petrol [prices have crossed] ₹100 and mustard oil ₹200 in many provinces. It has proved to be the weakest government in the country in the 73 years,” Congress spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said in a press conference on Sunday.Surjewala said the government just watched as unemployment rate soared to its highest in 45 years and people died due to lack of life-saving drugs and oxygen.“Time has come to ask who is responsible for insurmountable devastation, agony and anguish and unfathomable pain that has been inflicted on the people of India and that is why it is time for stock-taking,” he said.The Congress alleged that the government was not paying heed to the needs of the poor and the middle-class as it accused the Centre of playing with the livelihoods of farmers to help its “capitalist friends” by bringing in the three controversial farm laws.Surjewaala said the government also failed to protect the country’s sovereignty. “Far from showing the red eye to China, the BJP government could not hold China back from the encroachment within our border in Ladakh,” he said.Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut Centre urged the Centre to introspect on whether it has been able to fulfil the basic needs of people as he praised previous governments. “The country is surviving on the good deeds of previous governments since the time of Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru to Manmohan Singh,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/weakest-govt-oppn-slams-7-year-bjprule-101622399082151.html
31-05-2021||India||BJP cadre standing with people, Opposition breaking morale: Nadda||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president JP Nadda on Sunday praised the party cadre for providing relief to the people amid the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) surge and attacked the Opposition for allegedly politicising the pandemic as he marked the seventh anniversary of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government at the Centre.Addressing party workers virtually, Nadda said the Opposition “quarantined itself” while BJP members continued to work for the people amid the pandemic. “In this pandemic, BJP workers without being bothered about their well-being are standing with the people. But the Opposition has gone into lockdown and quarantined itself. It is visible only in virtual press conferences or on Twitter,” he said.The BJP chief accused the Opposition of trying to create vaccine hesitancy and lowering the country’s morale in the middle of the Covid fight.“The opposition parties tried to break the morale. They said the vaccines are being given without trials and peoples’ lives are being put at risk…it is a BJP vaccine. All kinds of questions and doubts were being raised and the same people are shouting for vaccines today,” he said.Nadda said the party decided not to hold any big events to celebrate day in order to adhere to Covid restrictions but its leaders were continuing to serve the people to mark the occasion.“BJP workers are mature and work with sensitivity. They should continue working with sadhana (dedication). BJP is the only party that took up work for so long and on such a large-scale and created a record for being the only party that worked and offered relief…This will never go unregistered,” he said.Urging party workers to continue helping people, Nadda said that BJP leaders and workers should continue being the “doers” and not get bothered by the “obstructers”.“Some are ‘sadhak’ (doers), while some are ‘badhak’ (obstructers). But we don’t have to get bothered by them and continue in our endeavour to serve people and help them during the pandemic,” he said.Praising the NDA government’s tenure, Nadda said that under Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s leadership the country has firmly faced challenges, grown in confidence and marched towards becoming self-reliant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-cadre-standing-with-people-oppn-breaking-morale-nadda-101622399022070.html
31-05-2021||India||Ramdev now says Covid vaccine has no use, he has dual cover with yoga, Ayurveda||Amid his ongoing tussle with the Indian Medical Association (IMA), yoga exponent Ramdev has once again questioned the legitimacy of Covid-19 vaccines, claiming that he hasn’t taken a jab as he enjoyed the dual cover of yoga and Ayurveda. Ramdev further claimed that the fatalities caused by the pandemic showed that allopathy was not 100% effective,“For decades, I have been practising yoga and Ayurveda, so I didn’t feel the need to get vaccinated. Over 100 crore people of India as well as in foreign countries have access to these ancient therapies. In the times to come, Ayurveda will be globally accepted,” Ramdev said.He also alleged that there was a concerted campaign to discredit the ancient Indian system vis-à-vis allopathy.Ramdev recently triggered major outrage after a video of him surfaced in which he was purportedly calling allopathy a “stupid science”. He later retracted those comments following objections by IMA and Union health minister Harsh Vardhan.Smarting under it, Ramdev raised 25 questions on the efficacy of modern medicine. This was followed by the IMA Uttarakhand chapter sending a ₹1,000-crore defamation notice to him, and Delhi Medical Association filing a police complaint.Dr Ajay Khanna, general secretary of the IMA’s Uttarakhand chapter, said they are willing to answer the yoga teacher’s questions and claims in an open discussion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ramdev-now-says-vaccine-has-no-use-he-has-dual-cover-with-yoga-ayurveda-101622398963396.html
31-05-2021||India||Viral clip shows Covid patient’s body being thrown in river, 2 held||Two men, one of them wearing a PPE kit, were caught on tape throwing a coronavirus patient’s body from the parapet of a bridge into Rapti river in UP’s Balrampur district, 160km north of Lucknow, police said on Sunday.The incident came to light after the video shot by passersby went viral on Saturday. The unidentified people were also seen tying a stone to the body in an apparent bid to ensure that it did not wash ashore.Additional superintendent of police (ASP), Balrampur, Arvind Mishra said the men, identified as Sanjay Kumar Shukla and Manoj, were arrested. “Both are relatives of the deceased Prem Nath Mishra, 68, a resident of Sohratgarh,” said the ASP.“The investigation is on, and efforts are being made to nab other people involved in the case,” said the ASP while adding, “The district police registered a case under the Epidemic Act against the culprits.”Additional district magistrate (ADM), Balrampur, AK Shukla said, taking cognizance of the video, the district administration set up an inquiry. Chief medical officer, Balrampur, Dr Vijay Bahadur Singh was directed to submit a report of the case.The CMO, in his report, said Mishra was admitted to the district hospital by family members on May 25, after he started facing breathing problems. He later tested positive for Covid-19 and was shifted to the Covid ward on May 26. On May 28, Mishra died, he said.On May 29, Sanjay Kumar Shukla, Mishra’s nephew received the body. As per Covid protocol, he was provided the PPE kits and a hearse to carry the body to the nearby Sisasi ghat for cremation.“Instead, the family members dumped the body in the river with the assistance of a sanitation worker,” the probe report said.On the basis of the report of the CMO, a case was registered under the Epidemic Act against Shukla and other family members on Saturday.On Sunday, they were arrested. “Both will be produced in a local court...,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/viral-clip-shows-covid-patient-s-body-being-thrown-in-river-2-held-101622398962112.html
31-05-2021||India||June’s Covid vaccine quota to be 120 million after 79 million in May||Nearly 120 million vaccine doses will be available for the national Covid vaccination programme in June, the Union ministry of health and family welfare announced on Sunday even as both companies supplying the jabs are looking at ramping up their production capacity to 110-120 million doses from the existing 75-80 million.At least 60 million (60,960,000) doses of Covid-19 vaccines will be supplied to the states and Union territories for vaccination of the priority groups of health care workers (HCWs), frontline workers (FLWs), and people aged 45 years and above as free supply from the central government channel. Apart from that, close to 59 million (58,610,000) vaccine doses will be available for direct procurement by the states and private hospitals.“In June 2021, close to 120 million (119,570,000) doses will be available for the national Covid-19 vaccination programme… Vaccination is an integral pillar of the comprehensive strategy of the government of India for containment and management of the pandemic, along with test, track, treat and Covid-appropriate behaviour. As part of the nationwide vaccination drive, the government of India has been supporting the states and UTs by providing them Covid-19 vaccines free of cost,” the health ministry said in a statement.The ministry, however, did not share a state-wise break-up of the number of vaccine doses allotted for the month of June. According to reports, Serum Institute of India’s chief executive officer, Adar Poonawalla, informed Union home minister Amit Shah that the company would be ramping up vaccine production in June by around 90-100 million doses.SII locally produces the Oxford-AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine under the brand name Covishield.On April 16, the ministry of science and technology in a statement also announced that it would help double the production capacity of India’s first make-in-India Covid-19 vaccine, Covaxin, by May-June, 2021, from the existing 10 million doses per month. Bharat Biotech co-developed Covaxin with the Indian Council of Medical Research.The allocation of supplies through the government of India channel to the states and Union territories is decided based on the consumption pattern, population, and vaccine wastage. The supply details are shared in advance for 15/30 days, to ensure better planning and delivery of vaccines.“The supplies are being fast ramped up by the manufactures, so more vaccine doses will be available in weeks to come. The doses need to be effectively distributed also at the state level keeping the current supply scenario in mind. The priority has to be covering the country’s high-risk population -- health care, and frontline workers, and those above 45 years of age,” said a senior central government official, requesting anonymity.From May 1 this year, 50% of the available doses are being earmarked for the states as free of cost supply from the government of India channel, while the remaining 50% is available for direct procurement from manufacturers by the states and private hospitals under the Centre’s “Liberalized Pricing and Accelerated National Covid-19 Vaccination Strategy” .“Visibility for availability of vaccines for the entire month of June 2021 has been provided well in advance to States/UTs by Union Government as communicated to States and UTs vide letters of Union Health Ministry dated 17th May 2021, 27th May 2021 and 29th May 2021… States have been requested to direct the concerned officials to ensure rational and judicious utilization of allocated doses and minimize the vaccine wastage,” the health ministry statement said.The delivery schedule for the current lot of supplies will also be shared with the states in advance. In May, a total of 79 million (79,405,200) doses were available for the national Covid vaccination programme, of which 40 million (40,349,830) doses were made available by the Centre to the states free of cost. In addition, 39 million (39,055,370) doses were also available for direct procurement by the states as well as private hospitals.Experts say vaccination needs to be scaled up.“All vaccines are effective in reducing severity of the disease, and death; therefore, it is important to vaccinate people as fast as possible, especially the country’s vulnerable population,” said Dr GC Khilnani, former head of the pulmonology and sleep medicine department at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-to-get-nearly-120mn-doses-by-june-says-govt-101622398902030.html
31-05-2021||India||Monsoon onset delayed, likely to hit Kerala on June 3: IMD||The monsoon is likely to begin its onset over Kerala around June 3, two days after its normal date of arrival, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said in its revised forecast on Sunday. The IMD previously said that the start of the monsoon would be on May 31, a day ahead of schedule.Monsoon rainfall is lifeblood of Asia’s third-largest economy as nearly 60% of the country’s cropped area doesn’t have irrigation coverage. IMD said last month the country was expected to get average monsoon rainfall this year, raising expectations of higher farm output.“The southwesterly winds could strengthen further gradually from June 1, resulting in likely enhancement in rainfall activity over Kerala. Hence the monsoon onset over Kerala is likely to take place around June 3,” IMD said. The department’s director general M Mohapatra said that cyclonic circulation along the Karnataka coast was hindering the progress of the southwest monsoon.In its monsoon forecast on May 14, IMD predicted that the monsoon was likely to arrive over Kerala on May 31 with a possible error margin of plus/minus four days. After very severe storm Yaas weakened recently, scientists said the cyclone over the Bay of Bengal helped strengthen the monsoon winds. But rainfall stopped and no heavy rain has been recorded over Kerala since then.“It should rain for consecutive two days in a certain number of stations. That has not happened. The westerlies should have a certain depth and it should be very cloudy. All these factors have to be met for us to announce the onset. These conditions may start from June 1 and meet criteria by June 3,” said Mohapatra.The southwest monsoon normally sets in over Kerala around June 1. It advances northwards, usually in surges, and covers the entire country by around July 5.Due to the strengthening of lower-level southwesterly winds, fairly widespread to widespread rainfall activity with isolated heavy rain is very likely over the northeastern states during the next five days, IMD said in its Sunday bulletin.These winds are likely to bring isolated heavy rainfall over Kerala and Mahe during the next five days and over coastal Karnataka on June 1 and June 3, while the south interior Karnataka is likely to experience heavy rainfall on June 2 and June 3.The onset of monsoon marks the start of the four-month rainfall season in the country.On Sunday morning, IMD, in its daily bulletin, said the onset of the monsoon over Kerala was expected to be around May 31. By afternoon, however, it said the onset was expected by June 3.However, Skymet Weather, a private forecasting agency, said the monsoon has already made an onset over Kerala. GP Sharma, president (meteorology) of Skymet Weather, said it is a “very weak onset” this year. Skymet earlier predicted that the monsoon will make an onset over Kerala on May 30.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monsoon-onset-delayed-likely-to-hit-kerala-on-june-3-imd-101622398782126.html
31-05-2021||India||UAE extends suspension on flights from India till June 30 to combat Covid spread||The United Arab Emirates (UAE) on Sunday extended the suspension of passenger flights from India till June 30 to combat the spread of the coronavirus pandemic.The ban was initially imposed on April 25, after a surge in Covid-19 cases in India.In a statement posted on its website on Sunday, Emirates, the flag carrier of the UAE, said, it has suspended passenger flights from India effective April 24 until June 30."Furthermore, passengers who have transited through India in the last 14 days will not be accepted to travel from any other point to the UAE," it said.However, "UAE nationals, holders of UAE Golden Visas and members of diplomatic missions who comply with the revised published Covid-19 protocols will be exempt for travel," the statement said.Emirates had earlier announced that the flight suspension would continue till June 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uae-extends-suspension-on-flights-from-india-till-june-30-to-combat-covid-spread-101622396916834.html
31-05-2021||NA||Highlights: Jharkhand adds 703 new cases to state's Covid-19 tally||India recorded 165,553 new cases of Covid-19 on Sunday, the lowest daily increase in 46 days. Data released by the Union health ministry shows the number of recoveries continued to outnumber the number of daily cases for the 17th consecutive day, after 276,309 people recovered from the coronavirus disease. According to the health ministry, the country is witnessing a downswing of the second wave of Covid-19 and they believe it will be sustained even when restrictions are significantly relaxed all over.As focus shifts from the virus to those it afflicted, both states and the Centre are being asked to ensure families of those who lost earning members are provided for. And on Saturday, the central government announced measures to help families who lost earning members due to Covid-19.In Vietnam, a hybrid Covid-variant has been detected, the country's health minister told reporters on Saturday. This new variant is reportedly a mix of the double mutant variant, first detected in India, and the Kent variant, first detected in the UK. France’s Pasteur Institute published a study that found the Pfizer Covid-19 jab to be less effective against the B.1.617 variant.Follow all the updates here:Jharkhand adds 703 new cases to state's Covid-19 tallyJharkhand reports 703 new COVID cases, 1,724 patient discharges, and 19 deaths in the last 24 hours Active cases: 9,906Total discharges: 3,22,060Death toll: 4,977 pic.twitter.com/nyGROdiaALAssam reports 3,245 new Covid-19 cases, 55 deathsAssam reports 3,245 new COVID cases, 5,690 patient discharges, and 55 deaths in the last 24 hours Active cases: 52,448Total discharges: 3,49,773Death toll: 3,300 pic.twitter.com/wiNz05qM6rBihar reports 1,475 new Covid-19 infections, 52 deathsBihar reported 1,475 new coronavirus disease cases in the last 24 hours. The state's death toll reached over 5,100 after 52 deaths on logged on Sunday, reported PTI.Africa's Covid-19 cases surpass 4.82 millionThe number of confirmed Covid-19 cases in Africa reached 4,823,795 as of Sunday noon, the Africa Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (Africa CDC) said.1655 new Covid-19 cases, 4521 discharges, and 37 deaths reported in Chhattisgarh today1655 new Covid-19 cases, 4521 discharges, and 37 deaths reported in Chhattisgarh todayCase tally 9,69,300Active cases 39,261Covid-19: Britain reports 3,240 cases and six deaths on SundayBritain reported 3,240 new cases of Covid-19 on Sunday, a drop from 3,398 cases the previous day, and six deaths within 28 days of a positive test compared with seven on Saturday.West Bengal reports 11,284 new Covid-19 casesWest Bengal reports 11,284 new Covid-19 cases, 18,642 recoveries, and 142 deaths today; active cases at 94,898.Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray extends lockdown-like curbs by 15 daysMaharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray extends lockdown-like curbs by 15 days. in some districts more curbs will be imposed, while in some they will be relaxed. I appeal to political parties to not pressurise government for unlocking certain activities. We are unwillingly extending the lockdown. We are ramping up the health infrastructure. The unlocking will be done in graded manner, says Uddhav Thackeray.Govt chalked out program to help orphaned children: Uddhav ThackerayThe second wave was bigger than expected. We have witnessed more number of deaths. The government has chalked out a program to help the orphaned children, says Uddhav Thackeray.Lockdown has helped us in containing spread of coronavirus: Uddhav ThackerayLockdown has helped us in containing the spread of the coronavirus. Each one of us need to decide to keep our village, tehsil, district Covid 19 -free. Agriculture related establishments will remain open as the kharif season is about to begin, says Uddhav Thackeray.We have decided not to hold class 10 exams: Uddhav ThackerayWe have decided to not hold class 10 exams. We are taking a review to decide on class 12 exams. We are waiting for the centre to take a call on it. I am requesting the PM to take a uniform decision related to class 12 exams. We expect center to guide us on class 12 exams as the policy should be same for all the states. Revolutionary measures need to be taken in education to enable students to carry on their studies online: Uddhav Thackeray.Constituted task force of doctors in view of potential Covid-19 3rd wave, says ThackerayWe have constituted a task force of paediatric doctors as part of preparedness of the potential Covid-19 third wave. We have plan to vaccinate all our eligible people, but the availability of the jabs is a challenge before us. We will resume the vaccination drive for age group 18-44 years soon, says Uddhav Thackeray.Demand of oxygen went up during this wave, says ThackerayThe demand of oxygen went up to 1700 metric tonnes during this wave against our own production of 1300MT. We have 3000 patients of mucormycosis in the state, says Uddhav Thackeray.Some of Maharashtra districts witnessing rise in Covid-19 cases: Uddhav ThackerayThe recovery rate and the CFR is better than that of the peak of the first wave. Some of the Maharashtra districts are witnessing rise in the cases, especially rural parts. The transmission rate of the strain in the second wave is rapid. The time taken for the recovery is more than that in first wave, says Uddhav Thackeray.Covid-19 cases are still near the peak of first wave: Uddhav ThackerayThe restrictions are imposed by us unwillingly. Covid-19 cases have gone down significantly over the last few days. The cases are still near the peak of the first wave. The drop in Covid-19 cases is still not as expected: Uddhav Thackeray.Distributed foodgrains and financial help to construction, domestic workers: Uddhav ThackerayWhile fighting against Covid-19 pandemic, we have distributed 2.74 lakh metric tonnes foodgrains, disbursed ₹155 crore to construction workers and ₹34.42 lakh to domestic workers, says Uddhav Thackeray.Cyclone Tauktae intensified our challenge of Covid 19 pandemic: Uddhav ThackerayCyclone Tauktae intensified our challenge of Covid 19 pandemic we have been fighting with. The NDRF norms for compensation for the natural calamities need to be changed, says Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray.Indonesia reports 6,115 new Covid-19 cases, 142 more deathsThe Covid-19 cases in Indonesia rose by 6,115 in the past 24 hours to 1,816,041, with the death toll adding by 142 to 50,404, the Health Ministry said on Sunday.Maharashtra records 18,600 fresh Covid-19 cases, 402 deathsTotal Cases: 57,31,815New Cases: 18,600Deaths: 94,844 (402 deaths today)People recovered: 53,62,370 (22,532 today)Total tested: 3,48,61,608 (2,52,623 today)City: MumbaiTotal Cases: 7,04,622New Cases: 1062Deaths: 14,797 (22 deaths today)Covid-19: Kerala registers 19,894 new cases; 186 deathsKerala registered 19,894 fresh Covid-19 cases on Sunday, taking the total caseload to 24,84,254 while the toll climbed to 8,641 with 186 deaths, according to the state government.Karnataka records 20,378 new Covid-19 casesKarnataka records 20,378 new Covid-19 cases, 28,053 recoveries and 382 fatalities.Meghalaya reports 13 additional Covid-19 fatalities, 742 new casesMeghalaya on Sunday recorded 13 more Covid-19 fatalities and 742 new cases raising the death toll to 564 and the active coronavirus tally to 7,496, a senior health official said.Lockdown extended by 10 days in TelanganaLockdown extended by 10 days in Telangana. Relaxation from 6 am to 1 pm, instead of 6 am to 10 am being in force at present.Kenya extends Covid-19 curfew by 60 daysKenya has extended its nightly curfew by 60 days to slow the spread of Covid-19, the Interior Ministry said on Sunday.Mumbai mayor finds Covid-19 vaccines stored in normal fridge at hotelMumbai Mayor Kishori Pednekar on Sunday conducted an inspection at a hotel in suburban Andheri and found several Covid-19 vaccines stored there in a normal fridge, in violation of the laid down norms.All monuments, museums to remain closed till June 15Due to the Covid-19 pandemic situation, all the centrally protected monuments/sites and museums under the Archaeological Survey of India shall continue to remain closed till 15 June 2021 or until further orders: Union Ministry of Culture.Delhi reports 946 new Covid-19 casesDelhi reports 946 new Covid-19 cases (positivity rate 1.25%), 1803 recoveries, and 78 deaths in the last 24 hoursTotal cases 14,25,592Active cases 12,100UP allows economic activities in zones with less than 600 active Covid-19 cases from June 1UP allows economic activities in zones with less than 600 active Covid-19 cases from June 1, curfew to continue on weekendsBihar to provide ₹1,500 per month to children orphaned by Covid-19Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar on Sunday announced that children who have lost their parents to Covid-19 will be provided ₹1,500 per month under the Bal Sahayata Yojna till they attain the age of 18, adding that such children will be housed in a child care centre.Tamil Nadu CM inspects Covid wards in CoimbatoreTamil Nadu CM MK Stalin inspected the COVID19 ward today at ESI Hospital in Coimbatore pic.twitter.com/IhrJkcjDPQMust take the Covid-19 vaccine to prevent next surge: WHOKhetrapal Singh, Regional Director, WHO South-East Asia, said on Sunday that we have learned from the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic that at no cost can we let our guards down, and must take the Covid-19 vaccine at the first available opportunity. "While we can't predict next surge but we can prevent it, which we must," she added.Assam aims to inoculate 30% of the population if vaccines are available: CMAssam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said on Sunday that Assam plans on inoculating 30% of the population if vaccines are made available to the state, reported news agency PTI.Saudi Arabia lifts travel ban from 11 countries. excludes PakistanSaudi Arabia lifted Covid-induced travel ban from 11 countries but excluded Pakistan. Travellers from the United Arab Emirates, Germany, the United States, Ireland, Italy, Portugal, the United Kingdom, Sweden, Switzerland, France and Japan, will be allowed to enter Saudi Arabia from Sunday, reported ANI.PM Modi hails drivers of cryogenic oxygen tanks for saving lakhs of livesPrime Minister Narendra Modi hailed drivers of oxygen cryogenic tanks for saving lakhs of lives by working on war footing. The PM raised this point during his latest episode of Mann Ki BaatJapan to approve Pfizer Covid vaccine for 12-15 year oldsJapan's health ministry panel has approved the use of Pfizer Covid-19 vaccine in children aged 12-15, reported ANI. The Japanese government is slated to take a final decision on it in a meeting on Monday. India records 165,553 new infections and 3460 deaths in last 24 hoursThe trend of declining number of daily cases continued in India for the 46th day, after the country recorded 1,65,553 new cases of Covid-19 on Sunday. 3460 deaths have also been reported in the last 24 hours, the death toll now stands at 3,25,972, as per the health ministry data.Thane reports 695 new Covid-19 cases, 52 deathsThane reported 695 new Covid-19 cases on Sunday, taking the total tally to 5,15,091. 52 deaths were also reported in the last 24 hours, reported ANI.Mizoram record 329 new Covid-19 cases, 1 deathMizoram reports 329 new COVID19 cases and one death on Saturday.Active cases: 3,089Total discharged: 8,863Death toll: 36 pic.twitter.com/Z9OhaNhJoOUK reports 3,398 new Covid-19 casesUnited Kingdom reported 3,398 new cases of Covid-19 on Friday, recording significantly less cases than the 4,182 reported on Friday. 7 fatalities were also reported, the death toll now stands at 127,775, reported ANI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/live-coronavirus-india-world-latest-news-covid-19-death-toll-may-30-2021-101622337646786.html
31-05-2021||Today's||Sustaining and scaling up the response to Covid is key to saving lives||The World Health Organization (WHO) South-East Asia Region has, in recent months, witnessed a sharp and sustained surge of SARS-CoV2 infection. For consecutive weeks in April and May, the region reported more than two million new cases, with some areas reporting test positivity rates of upwards of 40%. Variants of concern and their sub-lineages have been detected and may be associated with increased rates of transmission. Both the region and world are at a critical moment in the battle against Covid-19. No country is safe. We are all at risk.Populations are exhausted. For almost 18 months, they have done everything they can to protect themselves and their loved ones. And, yet, we are still very much in the acute phase of this pandemic. Vaccine euphoria and the complacency it can bring are real dangers, especially as some countries globally return to normal. In all countries, we must continue to sustain and scale up the response, and see this challenge through.How must the region forge ahead?First, aggressively apply public health and social measures that are proven to be effective, and which are our best defence against new variants. Physical distancing works. Mask use works. Hand hygiene works. Ventilation, testing, contact tracing, and isolation – they all work to control spread, save lives and minimise impact. We must continue to act on the 3Ws – wear a mask, wash hands and watch distance. And we must continue to avoid the 3Cs – crowded places, close-contact settings, and confined and enclosed spaces.Also Read | Covid-19: Should India start opening up?Second, monitor and expand health system capacity to ensure it can meet population needs, whatever the caseload. In the event of a surge in cases, step-wise plans must be activated to enhance space, staff and supplies – including oxygen and beds – and to heighten coordination between and among facilities. Essential health services must continue to be maintained to ensure that all people can access the services they require to stay healthy and well.Third, vaccinate priority groups, as defined in national deployment and vaccination plans. Amid ongoing supply challenges, countries should optimise the use of available doses to expand protection among priority groups and maximise public health benefits. Political and public support for vaccination must continue to be promoted, while acknowledging that vaccination alone will not end the pandemic. It is imperative that countries with a surplus of doses share them with the COVAX Facility, which aims to deliver two billion doses to participating low- and middle-income countries globally by the end of 2021.False rumours and misinformation can increase risk-taking behaviours, facilitate disease transmission, and intensify or lengthen an outbreak. They can cause confusion and erode social trust. Before sharing information, consider its source, and whether the information is verified and reliable. Be an ambassador of high-quality information, which can be accessed online via WHO’s website and social media accounts, and those of national and local authorities.No person or community can be left behind. Across the world, Covid-19 has disproportionately impacted key demographics, who, for a range of social and economic reasons, may be more susceptible to transmission, or may struggle to access health care. This is not only inequitable, but also inefficient. Equity must continue to be a core feature of Covid-19 decision-making, whether on access to testing and treatment, or the provision of social and economic protection.Also Read | Vaccine lessons for India from Black AmericaWe must go hard and go all out. Since the beginning of the pandemic, WHO has provided member-States in the region critical guidance and support, which has in recent months included thousands of oxygen concentrators, millions of respirator masks, and a series of auxiliary health facilities. Thousands of staff have been repurposed in support of national response efforts. Countries continue to reap life-saving benefits from the Access to COVID-19 Tools Accelerator, which is the fastest, most coordinated, and successful global collaboration in history to accelerate the development, production, and equitable access to Covid-19 tests, treatments, and vaccines.It is only through solidarity, and by sustaining this resolve, that we can drive infection down, prepare for and prevent new waves, and bring evidence-based treatments and technologies to all who need them. Lives and livelihoods are at stake. We must all stay the course.Poonam Khetrapal Singh is regional director, WHO South-East Asia RegionThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/sustaining-and-scaling-up-the-response-to-covid-is-key-to-saving-lives-101622461849642.html
31-05-2021||Editorials||China’s three-child policy is an admission of failure||China’s announcement that it will now permit couples to have three children is a major step for a country which, until 2016, implemented a coercive, often brutal, one-child norm. The announcement seems driven less by giving people freedom of choice, and more by the challenges posed by a shrinking labour force and a fraying demographic structure. The increase in the ageing population has become an economic and social burden. These factors have a geopolitical impact too, for it will hamper China’s ambitions of becoming an economic and military superpower which can challenge the United States (US).Also Read | Travel ban, restrictions in China’s Guangzhou after mini Covid outbreakFertility rates in China have dipped to 1.3 children per woman in 2020 — India’s fertility rate is 2.3. This puts China on a par with ageing societies such as Japan and some European nations, but without their accumulated household wealth. But after first pushing couples to have only one child, China will now have to, at considerable economic cost, ramp up incentives to couples to have more children. Couples are reluctant for costs of living have increased. Many young women are unwilling to sacrifice career goals. And many couples, themselves single children, have the additional burden of being caregivers for their parents.The median age in China today is 38.8 which will rise to 55-56 by 2050; for India, it is 29 now and will go up to 38; and for the US, it is 38 now and will be 44-45 by 2050. Engineering a baby boom after a history of Malthusian family planning will be no easy task. There is a lesson for India. At a time when there are calls to impose restrictions of family size as a way of addressing the population “problem”, China’s experience shows that it doesn’t work in the long-run.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/chinas-three-child-policy-is-an-admission-of-failure-101622462990662.html
