01 December 2021||New Delhi,||Apologise if you want to return to Rajya Sabha: Goyal to 12 MPs||Leader of the House in the Rajya Sabha Piyush Goyal said on Tuesday that if the 12 suspended members were to apologise, they could return to the House. Earlier in the day, the Opposition staged a walkout and stayed away from the proceedings. The Opposition said the suspended MPs would hold a sit-in at the Gandhi statue on Parliament premises till the end of the winter session. The Government, striking a conciliatory note, did not take up the listed legislative business of the Dam Safety Bill in the absence of the Opposition. Soon after the House was convened for the day, Leader of the Opposition Mallikarjun Kharge pointed out that on technical grounds, the suspension was illegal. The members were suspended for their alleged misconduct on August 11 in the monsoon session, under Rule 256 of the House. Mr. Kharge stated that the two parameters essential under the rules were ignored. First, the Chairman had to name a member, if he was of the view that the member had disregarded the authority of the Chair or abused the rules of the Council by persistently and wilfully obstructing the business of the House. “Only after the member is named, can a motion be made to suspend them. More importantly, this procedure is relevant only on the date of occurrence of the alleged disregard or disorderly conduct of a member,” he observed. “Bringing forward a motion to suspend the members months after the day of occurrence of alleged disorderly conduct is not in order. This unprecedented and undemocratic act is a blatant violation of the rules,” he said. He requested House Chairman M. Venkaiah Naidu to revoke the suspension, which was outrightly rejected. Mr. Naidu said the Rajya Sabha was a continuing institution and that taking action against some members on the first day of the current winter session for their acts of misconduct on the last day of the last monsoon session was in order. “The members who have committed this sacrilege against the House, they have not expressed any remorse. On the other hand, they are justifying it. So, I don’t think the appeal of LoP Shri Kharge for revocation of suspension is worth considering,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/apologise-if-you-want-to-return-to-rajya-sabha-goyal-to-12-mps/article37781680.ece
01 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||BJP, Cong. retard State’s progress: CM||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Tuesday said an unholy nexus between the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), Congress, Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) and the Jamaat-e-Islami-backed Welfare Party of India (WPI) were working overtime to scuttle the development aspirations of Kerala. Inaugurating a Left Democratic Front-sponsored Raj Bhavan march in protest against Centre's indifference to the developmental needs of Kerala, Mr. Vijayan said a BJP-led coterie in New Delhi had attempted to throw a spanner in the works of the State’s ardent bid to develop basic infrastructure. He said the other powers worked in tandem with the BJP by discrediting key projects such as SilverLine as “quixotic, anti-environment and economically unviable”. The Centre and State had agreed in principle to build a semi-high-speed railway line that would drastically reduce the travel time between Thiruvananthapuram and Kasaragod to less than four hours. The administrations had created a company, K-Rail, with Railways holding 49% of the greenfield project shares. Recently, Railways said it was unwilling to give a financial guarantee for the project. Politics had prompted the change of tone and Kerala was not dispirited. The State Government would provide a complete financial warranty. Discussions were on with the Railway Minister. If needed, the State Government would petition Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Mr. Vijayan said the Centre seemed to succumb to the pressure exerted by the nexus. It had back-peddled on the Sabarimala airport, Thiruvananthapuram-Chengannur suburban highway and other critical infrastructure projects such as expanding the Kozhikode and Kannur airports. Kerala sensed desperation to retard its momentum to build a modern State. Despite its sterling public health record, Kerala still had no All India Institute of Medical Sciences. Targetting Kerala The BJP had used Central agencies to target the Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board. It had used Central law enforcement to prosecute a malicious recriminatory campaign against the previous LDF government. However, the people voted the LDF back to power. The Congress, IUML and WPI had played second fiddle to the BJP's agenda, and they still do. However, the people of Kerala would defeat the machinations of the vested interests, he said. LDF and CPI(M) leaders spoke at the rally.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bjp-cong-retard-keralas-progress-cm/article37782038.ece
01 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||GDP grew 8.4% in Q2, but recovery appears patchy||India’s gross domestic product (GDP) grew by 8.4% in the July to September quarter, compared to a 7.4% contraction a year ago, with the economy’s gross value added (GVA) rising 8.5%, the National Statistical Office said on Tuesday. Factoring in the first quarter GDP growth of 20.1%, the first half of this year has recorded 13.7% growth and India is likely to record double digit growth for 2021-22 as a whole, the Finance Ministry’s Chief Economic Adviser (CEA) Krishnamurthy Subramanian said, seeking to emphasise that the recovery process is continuing to play out. Economists, however, were not fully convinced about the extent and durability of this recovery and reacted with caution. Though the absolute GDP in the second quarter (Q2) was 0.3% higher than pre-pandemic levels, there were still many worrying areas. In particular the insipid private consumption spending that still languished below pre-COVID levels along with activity in employment-intensive sectors like construction and contact-intensive sectors like retail and hotels. The base effect of negative growth last year also helped nudge the GDP numbers up, most independent economists say, although the CEA said the base effect by itself does not make the recovery ‘less noteworthy’. Crisil chief economist Dharmakirti Joshi said investments, largely from the Government, continued to remain the key growth drivers while private consumption is yet to show a decisive recovery. “On the domestic demand side, only gross fixed capital formation (GFCF) emerged positive in Q2 over the 2019-20 level,” noted D.K. Srivastava, chief policy adviser at EY India. “Private final consumption expenditure (PFCE), in terms of its magnitude, was still lower,” he said. “Even if the pace of recovery is sustained in the next two quarters, India’s GDP for the year is expected to be only marginally higher than that in 2019-20 (by around 2%),” CARE Ratings’ economists Madan Sabnavis and Kavita Chacko said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/gdp-grew-84-in-q2-but-recovery-appears-patchy/article37781682.ece
01 December 2021||MANGALURU,||Schools and colleges told to postpone cultural events||A meeting called by Mangaluru City Corporation with heads of various educational institutions in the jurisdiction of the corporation decided on Tuesday that all cultural programmes scheduled in the educational institutions will be postponed for two months. The meeting was called to discuss the measures to be taken to prevent the possibility of the spread of a new COVID-19 wave, according to the Commissioner of the corporation Akshy Sridhar. It decided that all workshops, conferences and seminars that have been scheduled in the educational institutions should be conducted online. Mr. Sridhar said that medical and paramedical students from Maharashtra and Kerala will be subjected to RT-PCR test between December 12 and December 27 compulsorily. Students entering the city from Maharashtra and Kerala will have to compulsorily undergo an RT-PCR test. They must subject themselves to the test once again after a period of seven days. Educational institutions should verify whether all students have received the two doses of the anti-COVID-19 vaccine. If multiple cases are reported in a college at the same time, steps will be taken to treat those students according to the health guidelines. Primary contacts of affected persons whose test reports are negative will be quarantined for a period of seven days, after which they will be subjected to RT-PCR test to procure a negative report, the Commissioner said in a release. He said that information of students living as paying guests in the corporation limits must be compulsorily shared with the corporation by the college administration. Students leaving here for another State must take the permission of their respective college heads. Master Nodal Officers and Nodal Officers should be appointed to all colleges compulsorily. Any COVID-19-related information should be submitted to the Primary Health Care Centers under the officers. Students and passengers coming from Maharashtra and Kerala are mandated to produce RT-PCR test report not older than 72 hours, the Commissioner said. Mr. Sridhar said that daily commuters from Kerala entering Mangaluru for work or education purposes must subject themselves to RT-PCR test once in 14 days and produce a negative report compulsorily. “All citizens under corporation limits are requested to follow COVID-19 appropriate behavior by wearing masks and using hand sanitisers,” he said and added that if an area under the coporation has an unvaccinated population of more than 10 people, it must be immediately brought to the notice of the corporation authorities. An ambulance will be sent to the area on behalf of the corporation to conduct a vaccination drive. Meanwhile, Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra also held a meeting to discuss the steps to be taken to prevent the spread of COVID-19. He instructed the authorities of the international airport and New Mangalore Port to take preventive steps with utmost care.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/schools-and-colleges-told-to-postpone-cultural-events/article37782168.ece
01 December 2021||GUNTUR,||CM deposits Rs. 686 cr. under ‘Vidya Deevena’||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Tuesday said education alone would eliminate poverty and empower people. “We are continuing the Vidya Deevena scheme in spite of financial constraints. The government has so far spent Rs. 6,259 crore towards the total fee reimbursement scheme benefiting 21.48 lakh students, besides clearing Rs. 1,778 crore dues kept pending by the previous government,” Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said while launching the third tranche of the scheme under which he credited Rs. 686 crore into the accounts of 9.87 lakh mothers of 11.03 lakh students. Stating that the scheme was aimed at making education accessible to the poor, he said the amount was being directly credited into the accounts of the mothers as they could better supervise the college facilities and the students’ well-being, which would also improve accountability of the college managements. “If there are any problems with the managements, or with the scheme, the beneficiaries are advised to dial the toll-free number – 1902,” he said. “I also urge the beneficiaries to pay the credited amount to the colleges within seven to 10 days, failing which the government shall directly credit the amount to the accounts of the college managements,” the Chief Minister said. He said the government had also taken steps to support meritorious students who secured admission in private universities by making a law under which 50% seats in the medical and dental streams and 35% seats in engineering and other courses would be filled under the convener quota. “So far, 2,118 students studying in private universities are availing of total fee reimbursement through the Vidya Deevena scheme,” the Chief Minister said. ‘GER rises in State’ He further said that as per the all-India survey on higher education, the Gross Enrolment Ratio (GER) of students between 17 and 23 years in colleges had increased to 35.2% in Andhra Pradesh, registering a growth of 8.6% against the national growth of 3.04%. Stating that the government was implementing Vasathi Deevena scheme too along with Vidya Deevena, he said Rs. 8,526 crore had so far been spent on these two schemes alone. “The government is also setting up 16 medical colleges, a JNTU in Vizianagaram district, a university in Prakasam district, an architecture university in Kadapa, a tribal engineering college in Kurupam, and a tribal university in Salur,” the Chief Minister said. “The degree colleges are being set up across the State and 154 degree colleges are being revamped with Rs. 880 crore under the Nadu-Nedu project. As part of the reforms in the education sector, bilingual textbooks have been introduced and internship has been made mandatory,” he said. “These apart, the government is offering courses through 30 skill development colleges and one skill university by partnering with companies such as Microsoft,” he added. Ministers A. Suresh and B. Satyanarayana, and Chief Secretary Sameer Sharma were among those present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/education-will-empower-people-jagan/article37781629.ece
01 December 2021||HYDERABAD,||‘Sirivennela’ Seetharama Sastry no more||Award-winning Telugu lyricist and Padma Shri awardee Sirivennela Seetharama Sastry passed away on Tuesday evening following lung cancer-related complications. He was 66. A medical bulletin issued by the KIMS Hospital said he passed away at 4.07 pm. He was admitted on November 24 with pneumonia and was put on ECMO, according to hospital medical director Sambit Sahu. The journey Not often do filmmakers weave a story around a song, but a poetic work of Seetharama Shastri Jagamanta Kutumbam Naadi, Ekaki Jeevitam Naadi triggered a desire in director Krishna Vamsi to broaden its essence and make a film out of it. Though reluctant in the beginning, Seetharama Sastry gave in and agreed for his song to be used. It did not take long for Seetharama Sastry to master the film lyrical style as he was a staunch literary writer. In the process, Telugu cinema benefited from his body of work. As a newcomer in the industry, a chance to work with veteran director K .Vishwanath early on in his career gave him an opportunity to prove himself and he did it with 1986 film Sirivennela after his debut with a song in the 1984 film Janani Janmabhoomi . His mastery extended to nearly 3,000 songs till date. Born on May 25, 1955, in Anakapalle in Andhra Pradesh, Seetharama Sastry won accolades and innumerable awards that include 11 Nandi awards given by the government of Andhra Pradesh and four Filmfare awards. He was also honoured with Padma Shri in 2019 for his contribution to the film world and literature. Blend of styles A writer who expressed his radical views of society and romance-based poetry in the same breath, Seetharama Sastry had brought in a refreshing change in the composition of lyrics in Telugu cinema. Considered next only to C. Narayana Reddy and Veturi Sundararamamurthy, Seetharama Sastry’s vast repertoire extended to stage, television and public podiums as a speaker and influencer as well. Undoubtedly, the sheer magic he created with his vocabulary and command of language made him a name to reckon with in the industry. Sample this: Virinchinai virachinchitini ee kavanam; vipanchinai vinipinchithini ee geetham.... The free-spirited and meaningful lyrics in Sirivennela complemented the film that bore K. Vishwanath’s classic stamp of blending arts and human relations. This film not only made Seetharama Sastry an overnight success but also gave him the moniker ‘Sirivennela’. Apart from Sirivennela , he also penned songs for Swarna Kamalam , Swayamkrushi , Shrutilayalu , Swara Kalpana , Swati Kiranam, Gaayam, Kshana Kshanam, Indrudu Chandrudu, Alludu Garu, Antham, Sindhooram, Nuvve Kavali, Okkadu and Varsham among others. His song ‘Maaradu Lokam’ in the Revathi-starrer Ankuram , directed by Uma Maheshwar Rao, reflected the rebel side in this romantic lyricist. In fact, the song was picturised on him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/telugu-lyricist-sirivennela-seetharama-sastry-no-more/article37781623.ece
01 December 2021||CHENNAI,||Ending inequalities is the focus of World AIDS Day||On the 34th World AIDS Day on Wednesday the focus will be on ending inequalities to eradicate AIDS. Though organisations had given themselves time till 2030 to eradicate the disease, the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic had made it difficult to achieve the target. The World Health Organisation’s target of 90-90-90 by 2020 (for 90% of people with HIV to know their status; 90% of the HIV infected persons, who know their status, to be put on anti-retroviral treatment (ART) and 90% of those on ART to have their HIV-viral loads suppressed) has been extended by 10 years with the goal post of 95-95-95. Last year, of the 1.5 million people newly infected with HIV globally, 69,000 were from India. Of the 680,000 people who died of AIDS-related illnesses globally, 59,000 persons were from India, said N. Kumarasamy, secretary general, AIDS Society of India (ASI), and chief and director, Voluntary Health Services-Infectious Diseases Medical Centre. As with other nations, the country has missed meeting the target of zero discrimination by 2020, he added. “Zero discrimination milestone now has been shifted to 2030, albeit with a correction, less than 10% discrimination by 2030. ASI worked hard to call for the law for ending all forms of HIV-related stigma and discrimination. Without bold action against inequalities, India, as well as other countries, risk missing the target of eradicating AIDS by 2030,” Dr. Kumarasamy said. Chief Minister’s message Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Tuesday said the prevalence of HIV/AIDS in the State had reduced to 0.18%, from 0.38% in 2010-11, and urged everyone in the State to treat those living with the infection with love. In his message ahead of the World AIDS Day, Mr. Stalin said everyone should take a pledge to raise awareness about HIV/AIDS. He said the government had created a trust for children living with HIV/AIDS, with a fund of Rs. 25 crore, and was implementing various welfare schemes using the interest on the deposit. This was India’s first such scheme, he said, adding that pension was also being provided to young widows whose husbands had died of the infection.  Without bold action against inequalities, India, as well as other countries, risk missing the target of eradicating AIDS by 2030 N. Kumarasamy Secretary General, AIDS Society of India||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ending-inequalities-is-focus-of-world-aids-day/article37781791.ece
01 December 2021||CHENNAI,||Curve ahead of accident site hit visibility||A curve ahead of the accident spot in the Walayar-Ettimadai section of Palghat Division where three elephants were fatally hit by the Mangaluru-Chennai Express on Friday night affected visibility making it difficult for the loco pilots to apply emergency brakes on seeing the animals on track. Though there was no rain or fog, a curve ahead of the accident site made it difficult for the loco pilots to notice the elephants crossing the railway track and stop the train before it could hit them. “Due to the curve, the sighting distance was not enough to apply brakes to avoid such an incident,” Southern Railway’s spokesperson and Chief Public Relations Officer B. Guganesan told The Hindu on Tuesday. The scene of the accident was a designated elephant pathway where there was a speed restriction for about 15 km on the A-Line. The loco pilots had stated that the train was run within the prescribed 45 kmph, he said. Asked whether foot patrolling was done in the section, the official said that there was no night patrolling since the monsoon patrol ended on October 15, 2021. On measures being taken to prevent recurrence of such accidents, Mr. Guganesan said counselling for loco pilots jointly with forest officials on elephant movement patterns was being planned at crew depots.  Forest officials investigating the circumstances that led to the incident have seized the speedometer chip from the locomotive. While no search and seizure report was handed over to the authorities concerned, there was no formal communication yet on registering a case against the loco pilots or seizure of speedometer chip from the locomotive, a senior official said, adding that the expert support of railway officials was essential to decode the chip and access the data. The two loco pilots — M.T. Subair and M.C. Akhil — were booked under the provisions of Section 9 of the Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972 that dealt with hunting of wild animals. He said though the Act provided for conducting search, arrest and detention to the authorised officer, the process had to be conducted as prescribed by the Code of Criminal Procedure like conducting the search in the presence of two independent witnesses, preparing a list of things seized during the search, handing over copy of the search particulars to the occupant of the place. “We came to know of the loco pilots being booked under the Wildlife (Protection) Act only through newspaper reports…,” the official who preferred not to be quoted said. Meanwhile, the Southern Railway has instructed its loco pilots operating trains in the Walayar-Ettimadai section of Palghat Division to sound horn frequently along stretches known for elephant crossing. If the movement of elephants was noticed, the loco pilot should bring down the speed immediately and stop the train short of the elephants till they completely pass the track. In case they noticed the movement of elephants along the track, they were told to convey it to the nearest Station Master. Subway for elephants All India Loco Running Staff Association president V. Balachandran said sounding horn was not an effective solution since animals such as elephants, buffaloes etc., were known for not moving out of the track area with this stimulus. Operating trains at a lesser speed was also not a foolproof mechanism since it would be difficult to bring the train to a complete halt when the elephants are sighted at short distance. Registering a case against loco pilots would not serve any purpose and instead the authorities should consider constructing a subway for safe passage of elephants in areas known for their regular movement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/curve-ahead-of-accident-site-hit-visibility/article37781808.ece
01 December 2021||IDUKKI,||‘Mullaperiyar water let out without warning’||Residents of towns and villages downstream of the Mullaperiyar Dam in Kerala were caught unawares early on Tuesday as over 5,000 cusecs of water was released into the Periyar river from the reservoir, which reached the upper rule level of 142 ft at midnight. Kerala has accused Tamil Nadu of releasing water at odd hours without sufficient warning. The dam in Idukki district of Kerala is under the control of the Tamil Nadu government. Nine shutters raised Nine of the 13 spillway shutters of the dam were raised from 2.30 a.m. to 8 a.m. releasing 5,961.16 cusecs, into the Periyar, the highest volume of water discharged so far this year. Following the heavy rainfall on the catchment area, the dam level rose to 141.90 ft at 9 p.m. on Monday. The water reached the upper rule level of 142 ft at midnight and Tamil Nadu opened two spillway shutters to 30 cm each at 3 a.m. At 4 a.m., two more shutters were also opened and another three shutters at 5.30 a.m., 6 a.m. and 7 a.m respectively. At 7.30 a.m. two more shutters were opened and at 8 a.m. three shutters were raised to 60 cm each. Kerala Water Resources Minister Roshy Augustine said releasing large quantities of surplus water during the late hours could hit rescue and rehabilitation efforts. According to sources, this was the third time this year that Tamil Nadu opened the spillway shutters after 10 p.m. The main towns affected in the flood included Vallakadavu, Vandiperiyar, Chappathu and Upputhara. The water in the river rose around three feet and the level recorded at Vandiperiyar flood monitoring station rose to 794.05 metres, only 15 cm lower than the ‘warning level’. Though there was no cause for concern presently, the State Government will formally convey its protest in this regard to the Central Water Commission, the chairman of the Supervisory Committee as well as the Tamil Nadu Government to avoid such a scenario in future, Mr. Augustine said. The Minister said a control room has been operationalised at Peermade. The villages of Peermade, Kumily, Manjumala and Periyar have been put on alert.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mullaperiyar-water-let-out-without-warning-kerala/article37781678.ece
01 December 2021||New Delhi,||Farm fires added 14.6% to city’s PM2.5 in Nov.||The contribution of stubble burning in neighbouring States to the daily levels of PM2.5 – a chief pollutant – in Delhi was as high as 48% on November 7 and averaged 33.5% during the week after Deepavali (November 5-11). This is the same period when air pollution spiked in the Capital, National Capital Region and several other north Indian States. The average contribution of stubble burning to Delhi’s PM2.5 level in November was 14.6%, according to data from the government-run monitoring agency SAFAR (System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research). The highest contribution of stubble burning to PM2.5 in Delhi for a day was 58% in 2018, 43% in 2019, and 46% in 2020, said Gufran Beig, founder project director of SAFAR. After initial confusion on November 15, Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, representing the Central Government, had told the Supreme Court on November 17 that the contribution of farm fires to Delhi’s PM2.5 count was about 35% to 40% in October and November. The annual contribution is usually far lesser since the burning of stubble is only a seasonal activity and not all year round.  The effect of stubble burning on pollution in Delhi and NCR has been a political hot potato with the Delhi Government blaming neighbouring States for the hazardous dip in air quality during winter. Two spells Delhi usually experiences two spells of high air pollution during winter, one in October-November and the other in December-January. “During October-November, one of the main reasons for the high pollution in Delhi and NCR is stubble burning,” said Mr. Beig. But the stubble burning season is over before the second spell in December-January. For instance, the contribution of stubble burning to PM2.5 in Delhi has already come down to 1% on November 30, as per SAFAR data, and number of farm fires have also dwindled. “During the second spell, the main reason for air pollution is the transport of pollutants from the rest of the Indo-Gangetic Plain to Delhi combined with extreme cold and foggy conditions,” said Mr. Beig. He said this year, the number of effective fire counts in October-November (the stubble burning season) according to SAFAR data is around 77,000, the highest in four years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/farm-fires-added-146-to-citys-pm25-in-nov/article37781866.ece
01 December 2021||KOCHI,||Damages of Rs. 1.4 cr. assessed for pollution by defunct Edayar unit||A joint committee appointed by the National Green Tribunal has assessed an environmental compensation of Rs. 1.4 crore on the now defunct Sree Sakthi Paper Mills in the Edayar industrial region here for non-disposal of plastic waste and keeping it in its premises for long. The amount has been assessed for the total period of violation extending to 1,188 days from November 2016 to March 2020. The committee has also estimated Rs. 72.8 lakh as environmental damages/cost of plastic pollution owing to the plastic remains in the soil/site. Sree Sakthi Paper Mills was closed in 2016 after the State Pollution Control Board found that untreated effluents were being discharged from the industrial unit into the river. The industry was situated in 8.75 acres and about 81 cents were utilised for dumping plastic waste and incinerator ash generated from the processes. The Southern Bench of the tribunal had asked the joint committee to assess the damages to the environment caused on account of the violation committed by the company. The team consisted of experts representing the Central Pollution Control Board, National Environmental Engineering Research Institute, and Kerala State Pollution Control Board. The committee has proposed a detailed study on the contamination of soil at the site on account of the heavy metals and other organic components. It had assessed the environmental compensation from the date of issue of the first notice for the removal of the plastic dump. The report submitted by the joint committee before the tribunal stated that the Kerala Enviro Infrastructure Ltd at Ambalamughal had removed the plastic dump by March last year. S. Rajkumar, who was managing director of the company, said that the plastic dump had been cleared and it would be now used as parking area for the vehicles entering the site.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/damages-of-rs-14-cr-assessed-for-pollution-by-defunct-edayar-unit/article37782041.ece
01 December 2021||LUCKNOW,||When HC judge turned a good samaritan||An Allahabad High Court judge has come to the rescue of a Dalit girl who could not secure admission to the IIT-BHU in Varanasi for failing to pay the fees of Rs. 15,000 due to a financial crisis brought about by her father’s illness. The judge volunteered to pay the requisite fees. Justice Dinesh Kumar Singh contributed Rs. 15,000 for the allocation of the girl’s seat and handed over the sum to her on Monday. Justice Singh also directed the Joint Seat Allocation Authority and IIT-BHU to admit the student, Sanskriti Ranjan, to the Mathematics and Computing course (five-year, dual-degree Bachelor and Master of Technology). If there is no seat vacant in the said discipline, the court directed IIT-BHU to create a supernumerary post, which shall be subject to the admission of the student being regularised in the event of any seat falling vacant in the future. Ms. Ranjan, a student from a Scheduled Caste community, cleared the Joint Entrance Exam Advanced on October 15 with a rank of 1,469 in the SC category. She was allotted a seat in IIT-BHU for the dual-degree course. Medical expenses However, she could not arrange the fees of Rs. 15,000 before the scheduled date. Lawyers apprising the court on her behalf said the student could not do so due to a financial crisis caused by medical expenses and ill-health of her father and COVID-19.  Her father was diagnosed with chronic kidney disease and was advised a kidney transplant. He needs to undergo dialysis twice a week to survive. The HC noted that the girl was a “bright student.” She had secured 95.6% and 94% marks in her Class 10 and 12 examinations, respectively. She then appeared for the Joint Entrance Examination for selection in the IITs and cleared the exam securing 92.77% marks in JEE Mains Examination and rank 2,062 as an SC category student. Lawyers arguing for her brought to the court’s notice an interim order passed by the Supreme Court on November 22 when it directed IIT-Bombay to admit a Dalit student, Jaibir Singh, who could not deposit fees for seat allocation before the due date, by creating a supernumerary seat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/when-hc-judge-turned-a-good-samaritan/article37781688.ece
01 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||‘About 10k people infected with HIV in 2020-21 in State’||Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) test positivity rate has come down to 0.01% in 2020-21 compared to the positivity rate reported five years ago in Andhra Pradesh. Currently, over 1,92,390 people living with HIV in the State are receiving Anti-Retroviral Treatment (ART) at 45 ART Centres across the State. Of them, 1,02,712 are women and 81,351 are men, 3,971 are male children and 3,660 are female children, and 565 are transgenders or transexuals. During the past year, 9,918 new HIV positive cases were detected after 7.5 lakh persons were tested. In the year 2015-16, over 10.2 lakh persons were tested and 23,960 of them were detected to be HIV positive, according to the Andhra Pradesh State AIDS Control Society. In a press conference held here on the eve of the World AIDS Day, society Additional Project Director N. Uma Sundari and Joint Director P. Umadevi said that with improved clinical support and other services being provided to the people living with HIV, the number of new infections and the number of deaths due to AIDS had come down significantly in the State. Dr. Uma Sundari said the prevalence of HIV among adults (15-49 age group) in Andhra Pradesh was estimated to be 0.66% in 2020 while it was 0.79% in 2015 as per the statistics of the National AIDS Control Organisation (NACO). The number of infections among pregnant women had come down, the officials said. In 2015-16 of the 9.5 lakh pregnant women tested, 997 were having HIV and in 2020-21 of the 8.4 lakh tested, 585 women had HIV. “UN AIDS programme aims at 95-95-95 goals under which 95% people living with HIV should get diagnosed, 95% of them should be given ART and 95% of them should have undetectable viral load by 2024. In Andhra Pradesh, about 84% of the people with HIV are diagnosed, 74% of them are receiving ART and in 84% of them, viral load is not detectable. Also, in the past decade deaths due to AIDS were decreased by 70%,” Dr. Uma Sundari said. She said increased awareness about AIDS and fighting stigma and discrimination against people living with HIV was the need of the hour. The theme of World AIDS Day this year was “End inequalities, end AIDS, end epidemics”. Dr. Umadevi said HIV/AIDS counselling and testing services were provided through 1,936 integrated counselling and testing centres across the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hiv-positivity-rate-has-dropped-in-ap/article37781625.ece
01 December 2021||Kochi,||Nine injured as fire engulfs building||Nine persons were injured, three seriously, after a fire engulfed a four-storey building at Kunnumpuram near Edappally on Tuesday around 7.40 a.m. The ground floor was being occupied by a textile showroom while the rest of the floors were being rented out for lodging. Even the terrace was found enclosed by steel fabricated roofing and brick walls reportedly to be used as a dormitory. The accident is estimated to have caused damage to the tune of around Rs. 80 lakh. “We could trace a total of 12 persons in the building out of which four managed to get away from the building in the initial stage while the other eight had to be taken to the hospital with injuries,” said T.B. Ramakrishnan, Station Officer, Fire and Rescue Services Station, Gandhi Nagar. Three remain admitted in a private hospital. While Poornima, 22, remains in the ventilator, the other two are in the emergency care unit with burns as well as respiratory issues. The trauma of jumping out of the first floor of the building and the extreme smoke and heat contributed to the injuries. The rest left after being administered first aid. “The fire is suspected to have originated in room number 104 on the first floor,” said Mr. Ramakrishnan. All the electric gadgets, wooden panelling, electric wiring, doors and furniture in the room were totally reduced to ashes. The enormous amount of heat damaged almost all appliances in the nearby rooms and the adjacent floors as well.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/nine-injured-as-fire-engulfs-building/article37782040.ece
01 December 2021||Bengaluru,||All travellers to be tested||Health and Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar said all international travellers who arrive in Karnataka, around 2,500 every day, would have to mandatorily undergo the RT-PCR test. “We are already carrying out mandatory RT-PCR test for travellers from the 12 ‘at risk’ countries where the new variant has been detected. However, the Chief Minister has directed that travellers landing from any country should be tested,” he said. “Those who test negative will be home quarantined for seven days. All those who are symptomatic but test negative will be tested at home on the fifth day. And asymptomatic people will be tested on the 7th day. If positive, they will be immediately hospitalised. And they will be treated separately,” the Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/all-travellers-to-be-tested/article37782093.ece
01 December 2021||KALABURAGI,||Two Africa returnees in home quarantine||Two people who returned from Guinea in West Africa, which has been hit by the new coronavirus variant, Omicron, have been quarantined in their houses in Hosapete, Vijayanagara district. Taluk Health and Family Welfare Officer Bhaskar told a media conference in Hosapete on Tuesday that steps were taken as a precaution in view of the spread of the Omicron variant, though RT-PCR tests of the returnees returned negative for COVID-19. “The two individuals, one is 30 and the other 35, are natives of Hosapete. They had gone to Guinea for work. After their contract expired, they came back on November 28. “Both the returnees tested negative for COVID-19 on November 29. But, as a precautionary measure, we have home quarantined them for seven days as per the new guidelines in view of spread of the new COVID-19 variant. RT-PCR tests will again be conducted after their quarantine is over. “Those who returned from these States should report to the authorities and follow the guidelines,” the health officer said. To a question, Dr. Bhaskar said that the administration had taken steps to test staff of hotels and restaurants once in every 15 days. “We are also screening schoolchildren. Spreading awareness among people and vaccination are continuously going on. “As much as 82% of the people in Hosapete taluk have been given their first dose of the vaccine and 76% their second dose,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/two-africa-returnees-in-home-quarantine-in-hosapete/article37781954.ece
01 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Omicron doesn’t escape RT-PCR, RAT: Ministry||The new COVID-19 variant Omicron does not escape RT-PCR (Reverse Transcription-Polymerase Chain Reaction) test and Rapid Antigen Test (RAT), the Union Health Ministry said on Tuesday. It instructed the States to ramp up testing for prompt and early identification of any cases. “States are advised for target/prioritised testing of passengers from the not “at-risk” countries also as part of the ramped-up testing by the States,” said a Ministry release. The instructions followed Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan’s virtual meeting with the States and Union Territories to review COVID-19 public health response measures and preparedness amid reports of Omicron cases across various countries. ‘Vaccination crucial’ The Ministry pointed to the critical role of vaccination as a powerful defence against COVID-19, the extension of the “Har Ghar Dastak” campaign till December 31 with focus on 100% first dose coverage, and the completion of backlog of the second dose. The States have been advised to ramp up the pace and coverage of vaccination. The meeting was attended by Dr. V.K. Paul, Member (Health), NITI Aayog; Rajiv Bansal, Secretary, MoCA (Ministry of Civil Aviation); Dr. Balram Bhargava, Secretary (Health Research) & DG, ICMR; Dr. Sujeet K. Singh, Director, NCDC; State Health Secretaries; MDs (NHM); representatives from the Ministry of External Affairs and the Bureau of Immigration (BOI); State Airport Public Health Officials (APHOs); and other officials from the States and UTs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/omicron-doesnt-escape-rt-pcr-rat-says-ministry/article37781675.ece
01 December 2021||Coimbatore,||10-year jail term for two in emu scam||The special court for the trial of cases registered under the Tamil Nadu Protection of Interests of Depositors (TNPID) Act in Coimbatore on Tuesday sentenced the proprietors of an Erode-based emu firm to undergo 10 years of rigorous imprisonment for cheating several people of Rs. 1.02 crore. Special Judge A.S. Ravi awarded the punishment to M.S. Guru alias Gurusamy (39) and M. Girimurugan from Erode. According to the Economic Offences Wing (EOW-II) of Erode district, the two ran a firm namely G1 Emu Zone India Pvt Ltd. Higher returns The company offered different schemes involving the rearing of emu chicks, promising higher returns to investors. The firm cheated 37 investors of Rs. 1.02 crore. The EOW registered a case against the firm, Gurusamy, Girimurugan, and two others namely G. Suseela and P. Lingasamy in 2012 based on a complaint lodged by L. Gunasekaran of Lingappa Chetty Street in Coimbatore. A special team investigated the case and the court pronounced the judgement on Monday after the trial. The court acquitted Suseela. According to the EOW, Lingasamy died in April 2012. The court slapped a total fine of Rs. 72 lakh on Gurusamy and Girimurugan, out of which Rs. 70 lakh has to be distributed among the investors, except the 10 persons whose dues were settled outside the court. The court issued non-bailable warrants against Gurusamy and Girimurugan who did not appear before the court when the verdict was pronounced on Tuesday. In September, court had sentenced Gurusamy to undergo 10 years of imprisonment for duping customers of Rs. 2.39 crore through another company namely Susi Emu Farms India Private Limited based at Perundurai inErode. Convict surrenders A man from Erode who was convicted in an emu scam in August this year surrendered before the special court in Coimbatore on Tuesday. The convict was identified as S. Tamizhnesan (34) from Thiruvenkitampalayampudur near Perundurai. The court on August 5 had awarded 10 years of imprisonment to Tamizhnesan and two others for cheating 121 people from Salem, Erode, Namakkal and other districts of Rs. 2.70 crore. The court had issued a non-bailable warrant against Tamizhnesan as he did not appear before the court when the judgment was pronounced. The other two convicted by the court are S. Yuvaraj (41), an accused in a honour killing case, and C. Vasu (52) . The three men cheated investors through their firms Suthi Emu Farms, Suthi Emu Farms Private Limited and Suthi Emu Farms and Hosieries at Perundurai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/two-from-erode-get-10-years-imprisonment-in-emu-scam/article37781821.ece
01 December 2021||CHENNAI,||‘AIADMK targeting Stalin on floods politically’||The AIADMK was criticising Chief Minister M.K. Stalin’s handling of the floods in the State due to political vendetta, TNCC president K. S. Alagiri charged on Tuesday. According to Mr. Alagiri, the Chief Minister had been working hard and visiting flood affected areas to review the situation and was offering solace and assistance to the affected people. On the contrary during her tenure as Chief Minister, former AIADMK leader Jayalalithaa used to just survey by helicopter and never got down from her luxury car to view flood affected areas, he alleged. He accused Jayalalithaa of not even sympathising with the flood affected people and said people of the State would never forget the 2015 floods during her regime. He alleged that during the erstwhile AIADMK regime, the State Disaster Management Authority did not even meet once before December 2, 2015. ‘Preventive steps’ “A government should take preventive steps before a disaster strikes. Providing relief after a disaster cannot be the right disaster management,” he said. It was due to the government not functioning properly during her regime that more than 600 people lost their lives during the 2004 tsunami and Cyclone Thane in 2011, he claimed. Mr. Alagiri was of the view that the people were supporting and praising Mr. Stalin for his efforts and it was important even for the AIADMK to support him in that endeavour.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/aiadmk-targeting-stalin-on-floods-politically/article37781806.ece
01 December 2021||CHENNAI,||AIADMK expels senior leader Anwhar Raajhaa||AIADMK minority wing secretary and former Labour Minister A. Anwhar Raajhaa was on Tuesday night expelled from the party for “anti-party activity”. The development took place on the eve of the meeting of the party’s executive, slated for Wednesday. A release issued by the party’s coordinator O. Panneerselvam and co-coordinator Edappadi K. Palaniswami said Mr. Raajhaa, who represented Ramanathapuram in the Lok Sabha during 2014-19, had been removed from all responsibilities of the party, including the primary membership of the organisation. Among the reasons cited in the release was the former MP expressing views “contrary to the decision” of the leadership. Mr. Raajhaa, a senior leader, was known as a critic of the BJP, a major ally of the AIADMK. In 2018, he openly voiced reservations over the triple talaq legislation, and was responsible for his party’s decision to stage a walk out at the time of the Lok Sabha adopting the Bill. Of late, he has been publicly pushing for the readmission of V.K.Sasikala, former interim general secretary of the party. In late October, he came out in support of Mr. Panneerselvam, who had called for a discussion on the issue. In an interview to The Hindu on Sunday, he had said that Ms. Sasikala was no longer a factor of liability. He was also in controversy recently after he allegedly spoke in a “derogatory manner” against Mr. Palaniswami. When the matter came up at a meeting of senior office-bearers and secretaries of district units last week, and a few participants strongly criticised him, he apologised to the AIADMK co-coordinator. During the 2019 Lok Sabha and 2021 Assembly elections, Mr. Raajhaa was not given a party ticket to contest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/aiadmk-expels-senior-leader-anwhar-raajhaa/article37781768.ece
01 December 2021||KALABURAGI,||‘Cong. will be further weakened after polls’||BJP leader and Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Minister K.S. Eswharappa has said that the Congress will lose many seats in the imminent elections for the Legislative Council and will become further weakened. “Both the Congress and the Janata Dal (Secular) will suffer humiliating defeats in the imminent MLC elections. BJP will win 15-16 seats and end the Congress dominance in the Upper House of the legislature,” Mr. Eshwarappa said during his brief interaction with media persons in Kalaburagi on Tuesday. The Minister also said that he could understand what the Congress wanted to achieve by denying ticket to its senior leader S.R. Patil in the Council polls. “Most of the Congress candidates are unknown to people,” Mr. Eshwarappa said. Responding to the Congress leader and former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah’s remarks against him, Mr. Eshwarappa said that the former was a cheater who switched parties for better position and power. “Mr. Siddaramaiah cheated the Janata Dal(S) by quitting it and joining Congress. If he doesn’t get the position he desires in the Congress, he will quit that party also. There is no bigger casteist than Mr. Siddaramaiah. He had tried to divide the Veerashaiva-Lingayat community when he was the Chief Minister for political gains. He had called BJP’s decent leader Nalin Kumar Kateel a terrorist. Now, he is nurturing people like Zameer Ahmed. When I questioned the way the Congress chose its candidates on the merit of their wealth and gave party ticket for Council polls, Mr. Siddaramaiah called me stupid. I don’t know how I can call him, an editor or stupid,” Mr. Eshwarappa said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cong-will-be-further-weakened-after-polls-says-eshwarappa/article37781953.ece
01 December 2021||December 01 2021 00:00 IST,||Core sector growth rebounds||India’s core sector output growth accelerated in October, with the Index of Eight Core Industries expanding 7.5% on the back of appreciable increases in the production of cement, coal, refinery products and electricity. September’s growth estimate was revised to a 4.5% pace. All sectors, except crude oil, saw positive year-on-year growth in October. Output in October was 7.3% higher than September’s four-month-low print of the index.page 12||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/core-sector-growth-rebounds/article37781684.ece
01 December 2021||Bengaluru,||BH series registration: Dept. issues notification||Bringing much relief to lakhs of vehicle owners, the Transport Department has issued a notification with regard to adoption of the BH (Bharat) series registration. The new system will facilitate seamless transfer of vehicles. The department’s notification states that permission has been accorded for registration of non-transport vehicles under the BH series, as per the amended Central Motor Vehicle Rules. Though the Union Ministry of Road Transport and Highways had issued a notification on BH series in August, the State Government has issued the notification on its adoption only now. However, its implementation will “happen soon”, said Rajender Kataria, Principal Secretary, Transport Department. Speaking to The Hindu , he said the Transport Commissioner would now have to issue guidelines to the regional transport offices (RTOs), while the NIC would have to take up work on customisation of the software, as the present system does not recognise BH series. That apart, the RTO staff would also have to be trained, he said. Waseem Memon from Drive Without Borders said the move would benefit lakhs of vehicle owners who may have transferable jobs, including employees of Central Government, defence, public sector undertakings, nationalised banks, and private companies. This, he said, was part of the Centre's “One nation, one road tax” initiative. Hailing the development, he said with this, the cost of ownership would come down by at least 15-20%. Explaining, he said vehicle owners were earlier required to pay road tax for 15 years at the time of registration. “If the vehicle owner did get transferred to another State, he/she would have to pay road tax in that State and then claim a refund from the parent State. This was a cumbersome process,” he said. Under the new system, the tax would be levied for two years, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bh-series-registration-dept-issues-notification/article37781722.ece
01 December 2021||Mumbai,||Mamata to meet Pawar in Mumbai||West Bengal Chief Minister and Trinamool Congress chief Mamata Banerjee will meet Nationalist Congress Party president Sharad Pawar on Wednesday, the second day of her three-day tour of Maharashtra. On Tuesday, she visited the Shri Siddhivinayak temple in Mumbai and met Shiv Sena leaders Aaditya Thackeray and Sanjay Raut. With the TMC foraying into politics in poll-bound Goa where the NCP has a presence as well, discussions between Ms. Banerjee and Mr. Pawar are likely to cover national as well as regional issues.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mamata-to-meet-pawar-in-mumbai/article37781860.ece
01 December 2021||December 01 2021 00:00 IST,||Call of faith||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/call-of-faith/article37781862.ece
01 December 2021||KOCHI,||Young woman dies in early morning car crash||In an accident eerily similar to the one that took place at Chakkaraparambu a month ago, an over-speeding car rammed a metro pillar at Pathadipalam, killing a young woman around 2 a.m. on Tuesday. The deceased person was identified as K.M. Mansia aka Suhana, 22, of Edathala, while two others escaped with minor injuries. Salman, 24, who drove the car, has been arrested while the other occupant, Jibin Johnson, 28, remains in police custody. The Kalamassery police have registered a case invoking, among others, IPC Section 304A (causing death by negligence). All the three were drunk, said the police. The hatchback was reduced to rubble under the impact of its collision with metro pillar 325. Rumours that one of the occupants of the car had fled the scene shortly after the incident triggered conspiracy theories drawing parallels with the Chakkaraparambu accident. Three persons, including two promising models, died in that accident in which their car rammed a tree along the national highway almost during similar hours on November 1. However, the police scotched rumours that Jibin Johnson had fled the spot. He was merely disoriented as he was drunk. “He didn’t actually flee but was taken to a nearby hospital following the accident. Since he was in an inebriated state, he wandered outside the hospital without being noticed and collapsed along a nearby road. When he turned sober, he left for his home at Varapuzha from where he was taken into custody in the afternoon,” a senior official with the Kalamassery police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/young-woman-dies-in-early-morning-car-crash/article37782042.ece
01 December 2021||BENGALURU,||All travellers to be tested||Health and Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar said all international travellers who arrive in Karnataka, around 2,500 every day, would have to mandatorily undergo the RT-PCR test. “We are already carrying out mandatory RT-PCR test for travellers from the 12 ‘at risk’ countries where the new variant has been detected. However, the Chief Minister has directed that travellers landing from any country should be tested,” he said. “Those who test negative will be home quarantined for seven days. All those who are symptomatic but test negative will be tested at home on the fifth day. And asymptomatic people will be tested on the 7th day. If positive, they will be immediately hospitalized. And they will be treated separately,” the Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/international-travellers-to-be-tested/article37781724.ece
01 December 2021||December 01 2021 00:00 IST,||Home Ministry extends safety guidelines||The Ministry of Home Affairs has extended the COVID-19 guidelines issued under the Disaster Management Act, till December 31. It directed the States to go for “rigorous screening and testing of all international arrivals”.page 10||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/home-ministry-extends-safety-guidelines/article37781685.ece
01 December 2021||HYDERABAD,||Real estate broker found murdered||A 50-year-old man, who was found dead in his parked car in Trimulgherry police limits late on Monday, was suspected to have been murdered by his relative. The victim was identified as Vijay Bhaskar Reddy, a real estate broker from Alwal. He was found dead in the front seat of his car, with a blunt head injury, at a ground in Trimulgherry around 10 p.m. Relatives told the police that Bhaskar Reddy left home on Monday morning with around Rs. 10 lakh. Preliminarily, police suspect that dispute over plot sharing and matters of business led to the incident. Thota Narender Reddy, the victim’s cousin, was being questioned. The police have registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/real-estate-broker-found-murdered/article37781967.ece
01 December 2021||December 01 2021 00:00 IST,||Water, water everywhere||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/water-water-everywhere/article37782085.ece
01 December 2021||Vijayawada,||‘Give Rs. 1,000 cr. as flood relief’||YSRCP Rajya Sabha member V. Vijaya Sai Reddy has urged the Central government to provide financial assistance of Rs. 1,000 crore to Andhra Pradesh for the loss caused due to heavy rains and floods. Mr. Vijaya Sai Reddy raised the issue in the Rajya Sabha during zero hour on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/give-rs-1000-cr-as-flood-relief/article37782199.ece
01 December 2021||December 01 2021 00:00 IST,||No room for complacency||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-room-for-complacency/article37782198.ece
01 December 2021||CHENNAI,||‘Curb sale of gutkha and rowdyism’||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Tuesday directed the police to curb rowdyism and sale of ganja, drugs, etc., in the State. Chairing a review meeting of senior police officers at the Secretariat in Chennai, Mr. Stalin asked the police to mount surveillance on rowdy elements and drug peddlers who had come to adverse notice in the recent past, police sources said. Chief Secretary V. Irai Anbu, Home Secretary S.K. Prabhakar, Director-General of Police, C. Sylendra Babu, Chennai Police Commissioner, Shankar Jiwal, ADGP (Law & Order) P. Thamarai Kannan, ADGP (Intelligence) S. Davidson Devasirvatham among others participated in the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/police-told-to-curb-rowdyism-gutkha-sale/article37781796.ece
01 December 2021||HUBBALLI,||Youth drowned in mutt’s pond||A youth from Koppal district who was studying in an Industrial Training Institute (ITI) in Hubballi drowned in a pond at the Siddaroodh Mutt in Hubballi on Tuesday. The deceased has been identified as Umeshappa Jaligal (22) of Kallur village in Yelburga taluk of Koppal district. According to the police, Jaligal tried to swim to the mantap in the middle of the pond to offer puja to the idols installed there. However, he could not make it and drowned. The body was retrieved later by Fire and Emergency Services personnel. Old Hubballi Police have registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/youth-drowned-in-mutts-pond/article37781950.ece
01 December 2021||December 01 2021 00:00 IST,||Crypto Bill to brought soon||Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said on Tuesday that the Government was working on a new Bill on cryptocurrency which would take into account the rapidly changing dimensions in the virtual currency space. The Bill would be presented to the Cabinet soon and brought in Parliament during the ongoing session.page 11||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/crypto-bill-to-be-brought-in-this-session/article37781683.ece
01 December 2021||December 01 2021 00:00 IST,||United show by Opposition||The Opposition presented a united front with the Telangana Rashtra Samithi and the Trinamool Congress, albeit reluctantly, joining the protest against the suspension of 12 MPs. Former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi chaired a meeting of the floor leaders of Opposition parties.page 11||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/opposition-presents-a-united-front/article37781686.ece
01 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Construction ban proves costly for labourers||At several labour chowks in Delhi, labourers find small work here and there but two COVID-induced lockdowns and a pollution-induced ban on construction, imposed by the authorities, has left them broke and fending for themselves.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/construction-ban-proves-costly-for-labourers/article37781864.ece
01 December 2021||HUBBALLI,||‘Congress will be further weakened after polls’||Minister K.S. Eswharappa has said that the Congress will lose many seats in the imminent elections for the Legislative Council and will become further weakened.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/congress-will-be-further-weakened-after-polls/article37781952.ece
01 December 2021||Mysuru,||Cong., JD(S) candidates newcomers: Minister||Minister S.T. Somashekar described the candidates fielded by Congress and JD(S) as “new faces” while the BJP candidate has established a close contact with the electorate despite losing the last election to the Council from Mysuru and Chamarajanagar districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cong-jds-candidates-newcomers-minister/article37782094.ece
01 December 2021||Bengaluru,||SIT head accepts IO’s report in CD scandal case||Senior IPS officer Soumendu Mukherjee on Tuesday informed the High Court of Karnataka that he had accepted the final investigation report prepared by the Investigation Officer (IO) in the CD scandal case allegedly involving former Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sit-head-accepts-ios-report-in-cd-scandal-case/article37782095.ece
01 December 2021||Bengaluru,||‘BSY, HDK will decide on pact for Council polls’||JD(S) president H.D. Deve Gowda on Tuesday confirmed in Delhi that the former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy and BJP leader B.S. Yediyurappa were in talks for deciding on a pact for the Legislative Council elections. This came on a day he called on Prime Minister Narendra Modi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bsy-hdk-will-decide-on-pact-for-council-polls/article37781727.ece
01 December 2021||MANGALURU,||Police to act against fish transporting vehicles||As spilling of fish waste water on roads and other public places by fish transporting vehicles continues unabated in the region, the police have decided to take action as per law.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/police-to-act-against-fish-transporting-vehicles/article37782165.ece
01 December 2021||Mumbai,||Mamata to meet Pawar in Mumbai today||West Bengal Chief Minister and Trinamool Congress chief Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday began a three-day tour of Maharashtra by visiting the Shri Siddhivinayak temple in Mumbai. She will meet Nationalist Congress Party president Sharad Pawar on Wednesday at his residence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mamata-to-meet-pawar-in-mumbai-today/article37781839.ece
01 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Govt. appoints panel to review EWS quota||The Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment on Tuesday appointed a three-member committee to revisit the criteria for 10% reservation for economically weaker sections (EWS) in educational institutions and government jobs, after a rap from the Supreme Court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/govt-appoints-panel-to-review-ews-quota/article37781840.ece
01 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Uttarakhand shrines out of Government control||The Government of Uttarakhand on Tuesday took back the Char Dham Devasthanam Board Act that had sought to extend control over 51 Hindu shrines and had been opposed tooth and nail by seers and managements of the shrines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/uttarakhand-shrines-out-of-government-control/article37781842.ece
01 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Uttarakhand shrines out of Govt. control||The Uttarakhand Government on Tuesday took back the Char Dham Devasthanam Board Act that had sought to extend control over 51 Hindu shrines and had been opposed tooth and nail by seers and managements of the shrines. With this, the BJP hopes that a major political pain point for the party in Uttarakhand, just months before the Assembly elections, has been resolved. “Keeping in mind the sentiments and interests of people, honour of priests and the dignity and respect of all stakeholders, the Uttarakhand Government, on the recommendation of the high-powered committee set up under Shri Manohar Kant Dhami, has decided to withdraw the Devasthanam Board Act,” said Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami. The move is intensely significant in terms of the State’s politics as the BJP was facing tremendous blowback and threat of protests against the Government from Hindu religious groups of saints, seers and even the RSS-affiliate Vishwa Hindu Parishad. The State saw three Chief Ministers in a year with Trivendra Singh Rawat, who got the Act passed in 2019, having lost his job directly because of his personal unpopularity among Hindu groups over this step. His term was followed by a very short term of Tirath Singh Rawat and finally Mr. Dhami who seems to have decided to cut his losses close to the polls. Among the 51 shrines that had come under Government control when the Act was in force were Badrinath and Kedarnath. Congress leader Harish Rawat compared this reversal of policy under public pressure to the repeal of the three contentious farm laws by the Union Government. Under pressure “It’s a step taken by a Government which is afraid of losing, a step that has been taken under the pressure of temple managements, of people and the Congress party. We had opposed this Act when it was first introduced in the Assembly. We believe that if the Government believes it made a mistake in having set up the Board in the first place, then they should also apologise to the people of the State. The BJP takes these unilateral steps and has to retrace, just like they have in the matter of the three farm laws, which too they had to take back,” he said. Senior BJP leaders said sustained opposition by Hindu religious groups was not something the party could overcome.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/uttarakhand-shrines-out-of-govt-control/article37781441.ece
01 December 2021||New Delhi,||New crypto Bill will be introduced soon: Govt.||Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Tuesday said the Government was working on a new Bill on cryptocurrency which would take into account the rapidly changing dimensions in the virtual currency space. The Bill would be presented to the Cabinet soon and brought in Parliament during the ongoing session. The Enforcement Directorate was probing eight cases of cryptocurrency-related fraud, she said, before stressing that sharing more information might not be in the“larger public interest”. The Minister was answering questions posed by several MPs during the Question Hour in the Rajya Sabha. BJP MP Swapan Dasgupta asked whether an outright ban of the currency was desirable. The Cryptocurrency and Regulation of Official Digital Currency Bill, 2021, has been included in the tentative legislative business for the winter session. The description of the Bill, which said private cryptocurrency will be banned, created a huge furore. The listing is based on the old Bill. “Yes, last time [monsoon session] there was a Bill but subsequently because there were other dimensions... That Bill has been reworked. And in a way the Bill which is coming now is a new Bill. But, never mind, the work done on that Bill has all been taken on board here.” She refused to divulge the contours of the new Bill. “The issues pertaining to regulatory capacities and also the fact that it has proliferated in the last two or three years, are well taken note of,” she said. Misleading ads Asked if the Government proposes to ban misleading advertisements in media, the Minister said the guidelines of the Advertising Standards Council of India were being looked into “so that we can take, if necessary, some kind of a position or a decision to see how we are going to handle it”. Ms. Sitharaman said the Government, the RBI and the Securities and Exchange Board of India have been cautioning people about the cryptocurrencies that could be a “high risk” area and “more can be done” to create awareness. She reiterated that cryptocurrencies were unregulated in India, and the Government did not collect data on such transactions. To queries from Sushil Kumar Modi, Ms. Sitharaman said non-fungible tokens (NFTs) were also unregulated, and clarified that no separate tax rate governed the income earned by crypto-exchanges and other crypto-service providing platforms. Their income, she said, was liable for tax under the head Business or Profession under Chapter IV of the Income Tax Act of 1961.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/new-crypto-bill-will-be-introduced-soon-govt/article37781468.ece
01 December 2021||New Delhi,||Home Ministry extends safety norms for COVID-19 till Dec. 31||The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) has extended the COVID-19 guidelines issued under the Disaster Management (DM) Act, till December 31. It asked the States to go for “rigorous screening and testing of all international arrivals” considering the emergence of highly mutant Omicron variant in a few African countries. “Further the contacts of these international travellers must also be closely tracked and tested as per Health Ministry guidelines and the samples of travellers turning positive are sent to the designated INSACOG Genome Sequencing Laboratories (IGSLs) promptly, as per the Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genomics Consortium (INSACOG) Guidance Document,” the Ministry said in its order. It stated that the State Surveillance Officers must establish a close coordination with the designated genome sequencing laboratories for expediting the results of genomic analysis and the States should immediately undertake necessary public health measures if variants of concern or variants of interest are detected. The previous order of September 28 to ensure compliance with the “prompt and effective containment measures for COVID-19” would remain in force up to December 31. The MHA asked the States to take relevant action under various provisions of the DM Act for strict implementation of the containment measures. The earlier guidelines were applicable till November 30.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/home-ministry-extends-safety-norms-for-covid-19-till-dec-31/article37781620.ece
01 December 2021||COLOMBO,||Basil Rajapaksa to meet PM Modi||Sri Lanka’s Finance Minister Basil Rajapaksa, who arrived in New Delhi on Tuesday, is scheduled to meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi and senior Ministers over the next two days. He is likely to seek crucial economic assistance from India by way of investments and enhanced tourist exchanges, official sources in Colombo indicated. This is his first official visit abroad since his brother, President Gotabaya Rajapaksa, appointed him Finance Minister in July amid what the Government termed an “unprecedented” economic crisis — with draining foreign reserves, falling rupee (200 to a dollar), soaring living costs, and growing fear of a food shortage next year. Mr. Basil recently presented his first Budget in Parliament. It is expected to be passed next week, with the Government’s two-thirds majority in the House. Since the pandemic struck, the Sri Lankan leadership has made at least two requests for economic assistance — a debt freeze that Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa requested in February 2020, and a $1.1 billion currency swap that President Gotabaya sought in May 2020 — but New Delhi is yet to respond to either, amid considerable strain after Sri Lanka unilaterally cancelled a tripartite agreement earlier this year with India and Japan to jointly develop a Colombo Port terminal. Colombo instead offered a “compromise” project at a neighbouring terminal, and India agreed to rope in the Adani Group as the main private investor. Meanwhile, high-profile visits have continued. Early October, Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla visited Sri Lanka and sought an early completion of the India-backed projects, and enhanced connectivity between the countries. Adani Group chairman Gautam Adani visited Sri Lanka later in October and held talks with the leadership on the West Container Terminal Project at the Colombo Port, as well as potential investments in the energy sector. While it was rumoured for some time that Mr. Basil, the youngest of the Rajapaksa brothers at Sri Lanka’s helm, would visit India before the end of the year, both sides kept the dates of his visit under wraps. The visiting Minister is also expected to meet External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar and his counterpart Nirmala Sitharaman, among others, in New Delhi. Sri Lanka also sought enhanced strategic ties with India. Its High Commissioner to India Milinda Moragoda met Defence Minister Rajnath Singh in New Delhi and “explored avenues of further augmenting defence and security cooperation with India”, a press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/basil-rajapaksa-to-meet-pm-modi/article37781451.ece
01 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Admiral Hari Kumar is Navy chief||Admiral R. Hari Kumar on Tuesday took charge as the 25th Chief of the Naval Staff from Admiral Karambir Singh, who retired after a 41-year career. “It’s a matter of great honour for me to take charge as the CNS. The Indian Navy’s focus is on national maritime interests and challenges,” he said after reviewing a guard of honour on the South Block lawns here. He was earlier the Flag Officer Commanding-in-Chief of the Western Naval Command. Admiral Kumar takes over at a time when the Navy is in the process of revising its 15-year Maritime Capability Perspective Plan to align it with the 10-year Integrated Capability Development Plan being formulated by the Department of Military Affairs (DMA). Increased engagements During Admiral Singh’s tenure, the Navy has seen a manifold increase in engagements in the region, both with the littoral states and major partners. This was backed by a series of bilateral logistics support agreements and maritime cooperation agreements. Admiral Kumar graduated from J-squadron, 61 Course National Defence Academy, in December 1981 and was commissioned into the Executive Branch of the Navy on January 1, 1983. During a career spanning nearly 39 years, he has served in a variety of Command, Staff and Instructional appointments. His Sea Command includes Indian Coast Guard Ship C-01, INS Nishank , missile corvette INS Kora and guided missile destroyer INS Ranvir . He also commanded aircraft carrier INS Viraat . He was the Fleet Operations Officer of the Western Fleet. Before taking over as FO C-in-C Western Naval Command, Admiral Kumar was Chief of Integrated Defence Staff to the Chairman, Chiefs of Staff Committee.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/admiral-hari-kumar-is-navy-chief/article37781459.ece
01 December 2021||New Delhi,||Opposition presents a united front||The Opposition on Tuesday presented a united front with the Telangana Rashtra Samithi and the Trinamool Congress, though reluctantly, joining the protest against the suspension of 12 MPs. Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi chaired a meeting of the floor leaders of Opposition parties in the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha at 10 a.m. in Parliament. The TRS participated in the meeting, but the Trinamool stayed away. Mr. Gandhi urged the Opposition parties to forget their differences in the larger interest of the country and present a united front in Parliament. Though he did not back the complete boycott of the winter session, he urged the Opposition to keep up the protests, backing “optics with content”. At the end of the meeting, the Opposition parties met Rajya Sabha Chairman M. Venkaiah Naidu. After Mr. Naidu rejected their demand in the House to revoke the suspension, the Opposition parties walked out. The Trinamool though stayed back, to maintain its distance from the rest of the Congress-led bloc. The parties then held an impromptu protest near the Gandhi statue on Parliament premises, where the suspended Trinamool members — Dola Sen and Shanta Chetri — too joined along with other party MPs. The Opposition held another meeting, where it was decided that the 12 suspended MPs would hold a sit-in near the Gandhi statue till the end of the Parliament session. The Trinamool again skipped this meeting, but confirmed its participation. ‘Common issues’ Speaking to reporters, Trinamool leader Derek O’Brien said there were common issues that all Opposition parties were together on and no party particularly needed to attend meetings. He pointed out that unlike other Opposition parties such as the Shiv Sena and the RJD, the Trinamool was not in any alliance with the Congress. “The focus of some of the friends in the media is who is going for the Opposition meeting and who is not. That is not the problem. Our issues are common. The problem is we have to stop the fascist BJP Government from trying to run Delhi and Parliament like they ran Gujarat. Different political parties will have a different tactic. There was a broad agreement that for one day, we will walk out. We can’t leave the Opposition benches empty. One party spoke first and left. They are the largest party. After that, the Trinamool was given a chance to speak and we presented our point,” he said. “Just because we do not follow the strategy of a certain party, it does not make us the B-team of the BJP,” he added. TRS against BJP The TRS’s new found belligerence against the BJP has incidentally coincided with the former’s defeat in the Huzurabad bypoll to the latter. The party has been carrying anti-Government placards since the beginning of the winter session. It forced an adjournment in the Lok Sabha on Tuesday protesting against the Government’s “faulty” paddy procurement policy. Speaking to The Hindu , TRS Rajya Sabha leader K. Keshava Rao said, “We have always been with the Opposition and have always opposed the BJP. Whenever the BJP contested against us, barring a few instances, they have lost their deposit.” When pointed out that the TRS had voted with the Government on many controversial laws, including the nullification of Article 370, he said the the party did so whenever a Bill was in the larger interest of the nation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/opposition-presents-a-united-front/article37781465.ece
01 December 2021||New Delhi,||Bengal, Punjab fears ill-founded: MHA||The Director-General of the Border Security Force (BSF), Pankaj Kumar Singh, on Tuesday said demographic change in certain border districts of Assam and West Bengal could be one of the reasons for the recent notification by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) enhancing the jurisdiction of the force. Demographic changes Addressing a press conference, he said “demographic balance has changed in Bengal and Assam leading to revolt among the people… voting pattern has changed in the neighbouring border districts … the Government thinking was that this notification can help in catching the infiltrators”. The 2011 Census reflected the demographic changes, he added. The MHA informed the Lok Sabha on Tuesday that the apprehensions of the Punjab and West Bengal Governments over the notification enhancing the jurisdiction of the BSF was “ill-founded”. Minister of State for Home Nityanand Rai said in a written reply: “Government of West Bengal and Government of Punjab have expressed their apprehension that such a move encroaches upon the powers of the State Government. Their apprehension are ill-founded. The extension of territorial jurisdiction of BSF would result in better and more effective control on trans-border crimes in conjunction and co-operation with State Police.” The two States had opposed the move, saying it was an attack on federalism, as police is a State subject. Notification amended The reply stated that the Centre amended a 2014 notification and extended the jurisdiction of the BSF in certain States, including Punjab, vide a notification on October 11. When asked if States had been consulted before extending the jurisdiction, the reply noted, “Section 139(1) (i) of the BSF Act, 1968 empowers the Central Government to confer powers and duties on members of the force in respect of any Central Acts for the purposes specified therein.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bengal-punjab-fears-ill-founded-mha/article37781470.ece
01 December 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Be extra vigilant against new COVID variant, says PGIMER||The Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) in Chandigarh has called for vigilance against the new Omicron variant (B.1.1.529) of the coronavirus, given its many mutations and possible transmissibility advantage as compared to the Delta variant. However, currently there is no evidence of the importation and transmission of the Omicron variant in the Indian subcontinent. Mini P. Singh, Professor and nodal officer, COVID-19 testing, PGIMER, said on Tuesday that there is still uncertainty on transmissibility, immunity escape potential (from infection and vaccine-induced immunity), the severity of disease, and response to available countermeasures (diagnostics, vaccines, therapeutics) of the new variant. The Omicron variant is believed to have originated in South Africa in an immune-compromised patient. Since then, it has been detected in Botswana, Belgium, Hong Kong, Israel and some European countries. It is characterised by multiple mutations in the spike and nucleocapsid proteins which outnumber the mutations seen in the Delta variant. The spike protein is the key protein that binds with human receptors to gain entry into cells. Tests work Professor Singh said the existing diagnostic tests (including the real time PCR as well as rapid antigen tests) can pick up the new variant. P.V.M. Lakshmi, Professor, Community Medicine and School of Public Health at PGIMER, said people are advised to continue following COVID-appropriate behaviour and get fully vaccinated. “Mass gatherings and non-essential travel should be strictly avoided. Patients with respiratory symptoms should get themselves tested for COVID-19 and isolate themselves till the reports are available,” Professor Lakshmi said. “Enhanced surveillance will be important to detect the early warning signs and prompt initiation of public health and social measures. There is no need to panic as, so far, no case of this new variant has been reported in India,” she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/be-extra-vigilant-against-new-covid-variant-says-pgimer/article37781607.ece
01 December 2021||New Delhi,||6 lakh Indians renounced citizenship||More than six lakh Indians renounced citizenship in the past five years, the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) informed the Lok Sabha on Tuesday. This year, till September 30, 1,11,287 Indians gave up their citizenship. The reason for a large number of Indians surrendering their citizenship was not stated in the reply. Though, in 2018, the MHA revised Form XXII under Citizenship Rules for declaration of renunciation of citizenship, which, for the first time, included a column on “circumstances/reasons due to which applicant intends to acquire foreign citizenship and renounce Indian citizenship”. Recently, the MHA had simplified the process and provisions were made for the applicants to upload documents online and an upper limit of 60 days was fixed for the renunciation process to be completed. Minister of State for Home Nityanand Rai, in a written reply, said that in 2017, 2018, 2019 and 2020, the number of Indians who gave up citizenship stood at 1,33,049, 1,34,561, 1,44,017 and 85,248, respectively. According to a Global Wealth Migration Review report, in 2019, India came second only to China when it came to high net worth individuals (HNIs) leaving the country. As many as 7,000 HNIs left India in 2019. In October, Amit Mitra, former Finance Minister of West Bengal, quoting a Morgan Stanley report, tweeted that “35,000 Indian Entrepreneurs of High Net Worth LEFT India between 2014-2020, as NRI/Immigrants. India RANKED No 1 IN EXODUS IN THE WORLD”. Mr. Rai added that in the period 2016-20, 10,645 foreigners applied for Indian citizenship, of which more than 7,782 were from Pakistan and 452 were stateless. During the same period, 4,177 persons were granted Indian citizenship but the country-wise breakup was not provided. A total number of 1,33,83,718 Indian nationals were living in foreign countries, the reply stated. The Minister said the persons covered under the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) might apply after the rules were notified.  “Till now, the Government has not taken any decision to prepare the National Register of Indian Citizens (NRIC) at the national level,” the reply said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/6-lakh-indians-renounced-citizenship/article37781466.ece
01 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Perumal Murugan’s photo in hoarding puts BJP in a soup||A day after featuring noted Tamil author Perumal Murugan apparently as a slum dweller from Delhi on background hoardings at a public meeting in the capital, the BJP expressed regret and apologised — though only off the record — for what insiders termed a faux pas arising out of lack of oversight. “It is an unintentional error; the hoarding was prepared by an ad agency and we have taken up the matter with it. The party’s national unit has taken exception and demanded an explanation,” a party leader said. “Hoardings, posters as well as party literature are, as per protocol, checked before being given the go-ahead and being produced for party events; that seems to have been ignored this time for some reason,” another leader said. Mr. Murugan was featured amid purported Delhi slum residents on a large background hoarding as BJP president J.P. Nadda and other leaders — both from the BJP’s national and State units — addressed a public meeting in Central Delhi’s Patel Nagar on Monday. Author responds Speaking to The Hindu , the writer said, “They have used photos of some people as representatives of the slum dwellers. My photo is also there. So, I am extremely happy to consider myself as a slum dweller.” Mr. Murugan said he did not know who in the BJP and how the party used his photo in the poster. “I don’t know whether they used it knowingly or unknowingly and whether they knew about me,” he said. Party sources said the BJP national president’s office had sought an explanation from its State unit for the potentially embarrassing portrayal of the Tamil author as the resident of a Delhi slum as Mr. Nadda delivered a speech as part of the party’s slum outreach program titled the “Jhuggi Samman Yatra.” The programme, organised ahead of the civic elections next year, is part of a strategy to counter the AAP in the almost 300 civic wards of the Capital with public meetings organised at at least one, if not more, such wards on a daily basis. The objective of the programme is to engage residents in conversations regarding the Centre’s “pro-people” schemes. According to a party leader, particularly as the picture generated negative publicity for the party on social media, national convener of the BJP IT Cell intervened and was among members of the party’s national unit to demand an explanation. Mr. Murugan is known for his works such as Eru Veyyil, Poonachi, Nizhal Mutram among others. His book, Madhorubhagan , translated in English as One Part Woman , won the Sahitya Akademi Translation Award in 2016 and was also included in the longlist for the 2018 National Book Award.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/perumal-murugans-photo-in-hoarding-puts-bjp-in-a-soup/article37781616.ece
01 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Amid din in Lok Sabha, Rijiju introduces Judges Bill||Amid sloganeering by a section of Opposition members, the Lok Sabha on Tuesday was adjourned for the day soon after Union Law Minister Kiren Rijiju introduced the High Court and Supreme Court Judges (Salaries and Conditions of Service) Amendment Bill, 2021. Soon after newly elected Shiv Sena member from Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Kalaben Mohanbhai Delkar, took oath and the Question Hour got under way, members of the Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS), which usually supports the Government on most issues, trooped into the Well of the House to raise the issues of farmers. The TRS members raised a host of issues, including a demand for a law on minimum support price, compensation for the farmers who died during the protests, and a statement from the Union Government on why it had not procured paddy in Telangana. Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla urged the members to return to their seats and allow the Question Hour to function. While other Opposition members, including those from the Congress, stayed away from the Well, they also sought to raise some issues. When the Speaker did not allow them to disturb the Question Hour, members of the Congress, the NCP, the Left parties and the DMK walked out of the House, alleging that the Government was suppressing the voice of the Opposition. However, the Trinamool Congress members neither joined the protests nor walked out. When the TRS continued with sloganeering and showing placards, Mr. Birla adjourned the House till 2 p.m. As the House reconvened, DMK member A. Raja, who was in the Chair, adjourned the House for an hour. During the break, Mr. Birla convened a meeting of floor leaders of all the parties to break the deadlock. But after the House resumed, the TRS members again resorted to sloganeering. In the din, Mr. Rijiju introduced the Bill that clarifies on when Supreme Court and High Court judges are entitled to an additional quantum of pension or family pension on attaining a certain age.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/amid-din-in-lok-sabha-rijiju-introduces-judges-bill/article37781462.ece
01 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Govt. appoints three-member panel to review EWS quota||The Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment on Tuesday appointed a three-member committee to revisit the criteria for 10% reservation for economically weaker sections (EWS) in educational institutions and Government jobs, after a rap from the Supreme Court in November. The panel comprises former Finance Secretary Ajay Bhushan Pandey; Member Secretary, Indian Council of Social Science Research, V.K. Malhotra; and Principal Economic Adviser to the Government of India, Sanjeev Sanyal. It has been given three weeks’ time to complete its work. The Supreme Court last month observed that the the Centre could not “pull out of thin air” the Rs. 8 lakh annual income limit to identify economically weaker section for providing 10% quota and questioned if the attempt was to “make unequals equals”. The court is hearing petitions challenging the Government notice issued in July which provides for a 10% EWS quota in NEET admissions. The SC will hear the case next on January 6. The NEET all-India quota counselling has been deferred till the next hearing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/govt-appoints-three-member-panel-to-review-ews-quota/article37781460.ece
01 December 2021||Mumbai,||Mamata to meet Pawar in Mumbai||West Bengal Chief Minister and Trinamool Congress supremo Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday began a three-day tour of Maharashtra by visiting the Shri Siddhivinayak temple in Mumbai. Ms. Banerjee, on her first day of the visit, held a meeting with Shiv Sena leader and Minister Aaditya Thackeray and Sena Rajya Sabha member Sanjay Raut at a hotel in south Mumbai. Mr. Raut said she enquired about the health of Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, who recently underwent a surgery. “She wanted to meet him, but the meeting did not happen due to health restrictions,” he remarked. She will meet Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) president Sharad Pawar on Wednesday at the latter’s residence. He had not met her few months ago in Delhi which, he later claimed, was because of his pre-decided schedule. Political strategist Prashant Kishore who has been working with the Trinamool has, in the past, held meetings with Mr. Pawar. The Trinamool has also forayed into Goa politics, where Assembly elections are due in the coming months and the NCP too has its presence in the Goa House. The two parties will be contesting the polls and discussions between them are likely to range over national as well as regional issues. Talking to journalists in Kolkata before her departure to Mumbai, Ms. Banerjee described Mr. Pawar as a “very senior leader of the country.” She said she would not be able to meet Mr. Uddhav Thackeray as he is in hospital. Ms. Banerjee is also expected to meet members of civil society at an event organised by Javed Akhtar and Sudhendra Kulkarni. ( With inputs from      Shiv Sahay in Kolkata )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mamata-to-meet-pawar-in-mumbai/article37781612.ece
01 December 2021||New Delhi,||CAG flags delays in Army’s offloading model||The Army’s ambitious plan for modernisation of the Army Base Workshops (ABWs) and implementation of ‘Government-owned, contractor-operated (GOCO)’ model is “delayed” and the original timeline for implementing the system lapsed in December 2019, the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) said in its report tabled in the Parliament. ‘Fraught with risk’ “The implementation of GOCO model is fraught with risks and operational challenges as identified by the Headquarters Base Workshop Group. 385 out of the 1,077 affected civilian manpower of closed stations/static workshops are lying idle and the same situation may arise in ABWs, if these issues are not addressed while implementing the GOCO Model,” said the report on Defence Services – Army presented in Parliament for the year ended March 2019. It was tabled in the Rajya Sabha on August 11 and the Lok Sabha on November 29. ABWs carry out repairs and overhaul of weapons, vehicles and equipment of the Army. The GOCO model was meant to modernise the workshops as well free up Army personnel from maintenance work. “Audit recommends that the Ministry of Defence formulate a strategy to mitigate all risks, including deployment of existing manpower, relating to GOCO implementation,” the CAG said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cag-flags-delays-in-armys-offloading-model/article37781614.ece
01 December 2021||CHENNAI,||The Hindu, Saregama Subbulakshmi Award back||The Hindu and Saregama M.S. Subbulakshmi Awards, presented by Parry’s Amrit Sugar, for aspiring Carnatic musicians is back this year but in a hybrid format. The grand finale of the much-awaited competition will take place at The Music Academy in Chennai on January 7, 2022. As before, the ninth edition of The Hindu and Saregama Classical M.S. Subbulakshmi Awards presented by Parry’s Amrit Brown Sugar aims to provide a platform for the next generation to showcase their talent. Own album The winner of this grand finale stands to win an opportunity to bring out their own album, by Saregama along with many other laurels. Tribute to doyen An event that has been celebrated for nine years, the M.S. Subbulakshmi awards are a tribute to the memory of the queen of Carnatic music, who is admired and adored across the world not only for her divine voice but also for her generosity and simplicity. Interested participants, who are between 18 and 26 years, can send in their audio recording showcasing their aptitude and expertise in kritis with raga alapana , neraval and swara prasthara.  Participants are required to upload the audio or video of their performance onto a Google drive and share the link to the audio/video on the registration page. Registrations are open till December 15, 2021. Participants can submit only one entry each. The sponsors for the event are: title sponsor: Parry’s Amrit Brown Sugar; powered by: Gopuram Turmeric Powder Kumkum, in association with Ruchi Magic (Pickle); Happy Senior Homes Partner: Ashiana Shubham Maraimalai Nagar Chennai; Wellness Partner: Kauvery Hospital; Banking Partner: State Bank of India; Eye Care Partner: Dr. Agarwals Eye Hospital; TV Partner: Sankara TV. To participate, visit:https://bit.ly/MSSTHor Scan the QR Code. For more information, please contact 9841 011949.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/the-hindu-saregama-subbulakshmi-award-back/article37781444.ece
01 December 2021||December 01 2021 00:00 IST,||Omicron doesn’t escape RT-PCR, RAT: Ministry||At the meeting, Mr. Bhushan stressed the continued need for further vaccination coverage, adherence to COVID-19 appropriate behaviour and need to avoid mass gatherings. The States have also been advised not to let the guard down, and keep a strict vigil on the international passengers coming to the country through various airports, ports and land border crossings. The Ministry said testing of samples of travellers coming from “at risk” countries on the first day and of specified category of passengers on the eighth day needed to be scrupulously done. Passengers from “at risk” countries were being advised to prepare to wait at the airports till the RT-PCR test report is available. Also all samples for genome sequencing have to be sent to INSACOG labs (mapped with the States) promptly. The States to undertake contact tracing of positive individuals and follow-up for 14 days. While asking the States to ensure preparedness of health infrastructure (availability of ICUs, O2 beds, ventilators, etc.), the Ministry stressed that they should also focus on rural areas and paediatric cases. There should be continued monitoring of areas where recent cluster of positive cases have emerged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/omicron-doesnt-escape-rt-pcr-rat-govt/article37781447.ece
01 December 2021||December 01 2021 00:00 IST,||Mullaperiyar water let out without alert: Kerala||Kerala Water Resources Minister Roshy Augustine said releasing large quantities of surplus water during the late hours could hit rescue and rehabilitation efforts. According to sources, this was the third time this year that Tamil Nadu opened the spillway shutters after 10 p.m. The main towns affected in the flood included Vallakadavu, Vandiperiyar, Chappathu and Upputhara. The water in the river rose around three feet and the level recorded at Vandiperiyar flood monitoring station rose to 794.05 metres, only 15 cm lower than the ‘warning level’. Though there was no cause for concern presently, the State Government will formally convey its protest in this regard to the Central Water Commission, the chairman of the Supervisory Committee as well as the Tamil Nadu Government to avoid such a scenario in future, Mr. Augustine said. The Minister said a control room has been operationalised at Peermade. The villages of Peermade, Kumily, Manjumala and Periyar have been put on alert. In addition to a police team led by the Peermade Deputy Superintendent of Police (DySP), three units of the Kerala Fire and Rescue Services and one of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) have been kept on high alert, he added. “We had requested the Tamil Nadu Government to plan such operations such as the release of water from the reservoir well in advance at daytime whenever the water level neared 142 ft. The various complexities associated with undertaking disaster mitigation efforts during the late hours cannot be ignored,” he said. Besides, the Tamil Nadu Government must also consider maintaining a considerable discharge through the tunnels all throughout the day in anticipation of rainfall during daytime, he said.    (With inputs from Thiruvananthapuram, Chennai)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mullaperiyar-water-let-out-without-alert-kerala/article37781449.ece
01 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Cannot wait for Vijay Mallya ‘forever’, says SC||The Supreme Court on Tuesday said it cannot wait for fugitive businessman Vijay Mallya “forever” and listed the sentence hearing in a contempt case against him on January 18. “We have sufficiently waited for him to come. That is enough... We cannot wait forever,” Justice U.U. Lalit addressed the Centre. It has been over four years since the Supreme Court found Mr. Mallya, who fled to the U.K., guilty of contempt for wilful disobedience of its order to come clean about his assets and not disclosing $40 million (Rs. 600 crore) he had received from British liquor major Diageo Plc following his resignation as Chairman of United Spirits Limited in February 2016. The court has been waiting for his personal appearance to hear and decide his punishment. The Ministry of External Affairs, in a note shared with the court by Solicitor General Tushar Mehta on Tuesday, informed that Mr. Mallya’s extradition has “attained finality”. However, “confidential” proceedings of an undisclosed nature were stalling the extradition. The court noted that the Government had referred to the same “confidential proceedings” over a year ago to explain its inability to bring Mr. Mallya back to India. “Well, the process [of sentencing] has to get over someday,” Justice Lalit, flanked by Justices S. Ravindra Bhat and Bela M. Trivedi, observed on Tuesday. The court said Mr. Mallya, if he is back in India, was free to make his submissions in the sentence hearing on January 18. If he is not available for “any reason”, his counsel could do that on his behalf. The court appointed senior advocate Jaideep Gupta as amicus curiae in the case. “The matter shall be dealt with finally on January 18,” Justice Lalit observed. The court had found Mr. Mallya guilty of contempt on May 9, 2017.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cannot-wait-for-vijay-mallya-forever-says-sc/article37781455.ece
01 December 2021||December 01 2021 00:00 IST,||GDP grew 8.4% in Q2, but recovery still patchy||In particular the insipid private consumption spending that still languished below pre-COVID levels along with activity in employment-intensive sectors like construction and contact-intensive sectors like retail and hotels. The base effect of negative growth last year also helped nudge the GDP numbers up, most independent economists say, although the CEA said the base effect by itself does not make the recovery ‘less noteworthy’. Crisil chief economist Dharmakirti Joshi said investments, largely from the Government, continued to remain the key growth drivers while private consumption is yet to show a decisive recovery. “On the domestic demand side, only gross fixed capital formation emerged positive in Q2 over the 2019-20 level,” noted D.K. Srivastava, chief policy adviser at EY India. “Private final consumption expenditure , in terms of its magnitude, was still lower,” he said. “Even if the pace of recovery is sustained in the next two quarters, India’s GDP for the year is expected to be only marginally higher than that in 2019-20 (by around 2%),” CARE Ratings’ economists Madan Sabnavis and Kavita Chacko said. “Demand and investments are yet to see a meaningful and durable pick-up. Improvements in these are expected to be limited and gradual given that even before the pandemic, the domestic economy was grappling with low demand and subdued investment climate,” they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/gdp-grew-84-in-q2-but-recovery-still-patchy/article37781456.ece
01 December 2021||December 01 2021 00:00 IST,||Apologise if you want to return to RS: Goyal||At Mr. Naidu’s comments, the Congress, RJD, AAP, TRS and the Left parties staged a walkout. The TMC stayed back for five minutes. “We all want Parliament to run, but in the entire monsoon session, the Opposition was compelled to do what they did because certain discussions were not allowed. You spoke about the sanctity of Parliament, the 12 members should not have been suspended, it is the 80 members of the treasury benches who should have been suspended,” TMC floor leader Derek O’ Brien said before staging the walkout. In the absence of the Opposition, the House ran smoothly till the lunch hour. When it reconvened, Mr. Goyal presented the Government’s side of the story. Mr. Kharge, he stated, did not express any regret for the action of the 12 MPs. He listed out the actions of the MPs that led to the decision, including allegedly “attacking” the marshals, blocking his and another Minister’s path while they were walking to the House, placing placards in front of those who were speaking, hooting and whistling. “Anyone can make a mistake…They should not only apologise to the House and the Chair, but to the country,” he said. Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi said the discussion on the Dam Safety Bill that was slated for Tuesday afternoon could be taken up on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/apologise-if-you-want-to-return-to-rs-goyal/article37781457.ece
01 December 2021||Mumbai,||Proud of Twitter CEO Parag Agrawal: IIT-B||The Indian Institute of Technology, Bombay, alma mater of the new Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of Twitter, Parag Agrawal, on Tuesday said the institute is not only proud of him for achieving the success but it also hopes to produce more such achievers in near future. The professors remember Mr. Agrawal as a hardworking genius who topped his department. “The significance of a university is often judged by the collective achievements of its alumni and the glory that they bring to their alma mater. Parag Agrawal is one such alumnus that IIT-B is proud of. The education and the ambiance that IIT-B provided to Parag, not too long ago, helped in bringing out the best in him. Building on top of it with hard work and dedication, Parag has reached the top. Our congratulations to him and we hope that IIT-B can continue to produce such achievers,” said Subhasis Chaudhuri, Director, IIT-B. Mr. Agrawal obtained his B.Tech. degree from the Computer Science and Engineering Department in 2005. “He graduated from my department in 2005. I distinctly remember him as being the topper of the department. He was a typical topper-like material. Extremely organised, very well-behaved. He had all the qualities in him to excel in academics in IIT Bombay. We get toppers from all over India into our department and to top within that itself requires special calibre and Parag definitely had it,” said Prof. Supratim Biswas. “I remember him as a student of my department, bright and focused. There is no wonder that at such a young age he has earned this distinction. The institute honoured him with young alumnus award a few years back,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/proud-of-twitter-ceo-parag-agrawal-iit-b/article37781663.ece
01 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||No Omicron case in India: Health Minister||COVID-19 variant Omicron has not been reported in India yet, Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya informed Parliament on Tuesday. The variant had been found in 14 countries so far, he noted. “We are immediately checking suspicious cases and conducting genome sequencing. We are also taking all possible precautions,” he said in the Rajya Sabha. “We have resources and labs to check the virus spread. Also, all measures have been taken to ensure this variant does not reach the country,” he asserted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-omicron-case-in-india-health-minister/article37781613.ece
01 December 2021||New Delhi,||HC turns down plea against Khurshid’s book||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday declined to entertain a plea seeking a direction to the Central and Delhi governments to ban the sale and publication of Congress leader Salman Khurshid’s latest book Sunrise Over Ayodhya: Nationhood In Our Times , in which he allegedly compared ‘Hindutva’ with the jihadist Islam of terrorist groups. On Tuesday, a Bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh came down on the petitioner for not making the author of the book or publication house as a party to the plea.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hc-turns-down-plea-against-khurshids-book/article37781617.ece
01 December 2021||December 01 2021 00:00 IST,||The tree concept||The Mahabharata is likened to a tree, and the different parvas are like different parts of a tree, elaborated Kidambi Narayanan in a discourse. Thus the Sambhava parva is the base of the tree; Sabha parva is where birds nest; small branches are Aranya parva; Virata and Udyoga parvas constitute the sap of the tree; Bhishma parva is like the big branches; Drona parva is like the leaves; Karna parva is like white flowers on a tree; Shalya parva is the fragrance of flowers; Sthree parva is the shade given by a tree; Shanti parva is like the fruits of a tree; Ashvamedha parva is the juice of the fruits; Ashramavasika parva sustains in the way a tree sustains birds. While trees protect birds, the latter too protect trees. If many birds have made their home in a tree, then a woodcutter will hesitate to cut the tree. Birds also disperse seeds of the tree and thus help in propagation. Those who want to read the Mahabharata are like these birds. It is because of such people, that the Mahabharata continues to be popular and widely read. The Mahabharata is the life force that nourishes people. All these attributes of the Mahabharata are ones listed by Brahma to Vyasa, who in turn told his son about the tree comparison. Vaisampayana, the disciple of Vyasa, communicated this to King Janamejaya, and it was at this time that the Suta Pauranika heard it. The Kauravas too are like a tree — Duryodhana being the tree, Karna the base of the tree, Sakuni the branches; Dushasana being like the flowers and fruits and Dritharashtra being the root. The Pandavas too are like a tree. Yudhishtira is the tree, of which Arjuna is the base; Bhima is the branch; Nakula and Sahadeva are the flowers and fruits. The roots are Lord Krishna and the Vedas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/the-tree-concept/article37781471.ece
01 December 2021||Pune,||Classes 1-7 not to open in Mumbai now||Despite the Maharashtra Government earlier announcing that school for Classes 1 to 7 would begin from December 1, rising concerns on the Omicron variant of COVID-19 have led authorities of the Mumbai and Pune civic bodies to postpone the decision till December 15. Nashik municipal authorities had already announced on Sunday that schools in the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) area will remain closed till December 10. As with Nashik, Aurangabad municipal officials too announced that schools in the Aurangabad civic body area would continue to remain closed till December 10. Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation Iqbal Singh Chahal announced the decision after a meeting with educational department authorities. “We have received reports that in South Africa, 10% of the infected population is below 18 years of age. So, given that children of classes 1 to 7 fall in this age group, as a matter of abundant precaution, we have decided to keep schools closed till December 15,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/classes-1-7-not-to-open-in-mumbai-now/article37781618.ece
01 December 2021||Mumbai,||Probe orderd into Param Bir, Vaze meeting||Maharashtra Home Minister Dilip Walse-Patil on Tuesday ordered an inquiry in to the meeting between former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh and dismissed police officer Sachin Vaze after the former appeared in front of the Chandiwal inquiry commission on Monday. Mr. Singh’s use of Government vehicle for his movements in the city has also come under scanner . “Sachin Vaze is in judicial custody and as per the rules he is not supposed to meet anyone. I have instructed Mumbai Police Commissioner Hemant Nagrale to probe the matter,” said Mr. Walse-Patil.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/probe-orderd-into-param-bir-vaze-meeting/article37781446.ece
01 December 2021||New Delhi,||‘Modi model being used to evade debate’||The suspension of the 12 Opposition members in the Rajya Sabha has been done by the Government to avoid discussion on key issues, the Congress alleged on Tuesday. The suspension reflected the ‘Modi model’ that was followed in Gujarat when Narendra Modi was the Chief Minister, it said. “This is the Modi model. The entire Opposition was suspended [in Gujarat] for the entire budget session, including those who were not even present that day! And in one session, when I was the Leader of the the Opposition in the Assembly, the LoP was suspended for no reason,” Rajya Sabha member Shaktisinh Gohil said at a press conference at the party headquarters here. He said the Government was taking steps such as repealing the farm laws without discussion or suspending Opposition members to provoke the Opposition parties into disrupting the proceedings. “Once the Opposition parties highlight the Government’s failures and take up people’s issue, the Government won’t be able to show its face. That’s why they come up with some conspiracy or the other to ensure the Parliament doesn’t function smoothly,” he alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/modi-model-being-used-to-evade-debate/article37781463.ece
01 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||CJI tells Govt. to keep its promises||Promises cannot be dropped merely because power has changed hands to another political party, the Supreme Court has said in a judgment. Succeeding public authorities cannot undo the work of their predecessors by merely claiming it was not in “public interest” or would cause “loss to the treasury”, said a Bench led by Chief Justice India N.V. Ramana. “Such a claim must be proven using material facts, evidence and figures. If it were otherwise, then there will remain no sanctity in the words and undertaking of the Government,” the recent verdict authored by Chief Justice Ramana noted. Businesses would hesitate to invest if they detected a sense of insecurity or lack of continuity when power changes hands. “ Such a practice is counter-productive to the economy and the business environment in general,” the CJI wrote. The top court said unless the act done by the previous government was found to be “contrary to the statutory provisions, unreasonable or against policy, the State should not change its stand merely because the other political party has come into power”. The new government was bound by the contractual promises of its predecessor. “The promise would be enforceable against the government.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cji-tells-govt-to-keep-its-promises/article37781660.ece
01 December 2021||Mumbai,||Caste certificate panel summons Wankhede||The Caste Certificate Verification Committee of Mumbai city has summoned controversial Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) officer Sameer Wankhede to be present on December 14 to join the ongoing inquiry into his caste certificate. NCP leader and Maharashtra Minister Nawab Malik has alleged that Mr. Wankhede, a Muslim, used a fake caste certificate to secure a government job. Mr. Wankhede and his family have denied the allegation. The first hearing in the matter was held on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/caste-certificate-panel-summons-wankhede/article37781445.ece
01 December 2021||Pune,||Ex-Mumbai police chief planned Antilia bomb scare, says Maharashtra Minister||In a fresh salvo of allegations, Maharashtra Minister Nawab Malik on Tuesday claimed that the bomb scare outside industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s residence Antilia in Mumbai had been planned by former Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh and controversial police officer Sachin Vaze, who was arrested by the National Intelligence Agency (NIA) in connection with the security scare case. Both Mr. Singh and Mr. Vaze had apparently misled the State Government on the case with their “wrong briefings” to the State Home Ministry, Mr. Malik said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ex-mumbai-police-chief-planned-antilia-bomb-scare-says-maharashtra-minister/article37782111.ece
01 December 2021||Mumbai,||Deshmukh appears before judicial commission||Former Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh marked his presence on Tuesday before the judicial commission appointed to inquire into corruption allegations levelled against him by former Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh. Mr. Deshmukh was brought from the Arthur Road Jail where he has been lodged since November 15 in a money laundering case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/deshmukh-appears-before-judicial-commission/article37781453.ece
01 December 2021||Mumbai,||Maharashtra issues new guidelines for all air passengers||The Maharashtra Government on Tuesday night issued revised guidelines for travellers on international flights as well as domestic passenger in view of the risks posed by the new coronavirus variant Omicron. As per the guidelines, all international passengers will have to furnish details of countries they have travelled to in the last 15 days. Domestic passengers must carry an RT-PCR negative report.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/maharashtra-issues-new-guidelines-for-all-air-passengers/article37781665.ece
01 December 2021||New Delhi,||Bangladesh taken off list of ‘at-risk’ nations||India on Tuesday removed Bangladesh from the list of “countries at-risk” with regard to the new coronavirus variant Omicron, the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare announced. The announcement found prompt support from Dhaka where Foreign Minister Dr A.K. Abdul Momen said the decision was taken because of a request from the Government of Bangladesh. Sources in the Ministry of Home Affairs said the Indian move was prompted by the upcoming visit of President Ram Nath Kovind to Bangladesh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bangladesh-taken-off-list-of-at-risk-nations/article37781666.ece
01 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||720 people test positive for COVID-19||While fresh COVID-19 infections in the State dipped to 720 on Tuesday, Chennai saw a marginal rise in its daily count. The city overtook Coimbatore, recording 115 cases. Chennai’s figure was an increase from the 105 cases it logged the previous day. Coimbatore reported 109 infections, while Erode and Tiruppur recorded 69 and 61 respectively. There were 53 cases in Chengalpattu. Forty-seven people tested positive in Salem, while Namakkal saw 42 cases. Among those testing positive in the State were two passengers who returned by road from Bihar. Tenkasi recorded no case, and 22 districts reported under 10 cases each. Tally above 27 lakh The fresh cases took the State’s tally to 27,26,917. Nine people succumbed to the infection, and the toll touched 36,481. Thirty-two districts did not report any death due to the infection.  Of the nine fatalities due to the infection, Tiruvallur accounted for three and Salem two. Chennai and Coimbatore saw one each. With 758 people being discharged, total recoveries reached 26,82,192. The active caseload stood at 8,244. Nineteen districts have under 100 active cases each. While Coimbatore tops the list with 1,233 active cases, Chennai follows with 1,182. Perambalur and Tenkasi have the least with 11 each. Testing figures A total of 1,00,048 samples were tested. The total count touched 5,42,70,347. Another 2,87,625 people, including 1,61,158 people aged 18 to 44 and 82,423 in the 45-59 age group, were inoculated against COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu on Tuesday. This took the overall coverage of government vaccination centres to 6,83,62,802. The cumulative coverage of private vaccination centres stood at 27,40,105.  The active caseload stood at 8,244. Nineteen districts have under 100 active cases each. Coimbatore tops the list with 1,233 active cases||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/720-people-test-positive-for-covid-19/article37781775.ece
01 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Cameras in city’s CCTV surveillance network go blank||The closed circuit television (CCTV) cameras installed across the city have stopped working at several places due to exposure to the vagaries of nature and lack of periodic maintenance. Chennai topped the list of Indian cities with high CCTV camera density, having 657 cameras per square kilometre, according to a report released earlier this year. The city has an extensive surveillance network. Now, a sizeable portion of them have become non-functional due to various factors, including lack of periodic maintenance and monitoring. This has hit surveillance. For instance, a gang of men burgled the house of a businessman in Thirumangalam on October 1. The victim, D. Elangovan, said, “Only after the burglary, did we realise that the CCTV camera installed in our house was not working. Even CCTV cameras that were installed in the street were not working. After struggling without the footage and working on certain clues, the police managed to arrest the accused 25 days later.” Similarly, investigators found it difficult to trace the lone accused who escaped with a booty of Rs. 72 lakh from a private firm in Chetpet. A source said, “It was tough to trace the accused. Many CCTV cameras are not working in the major areas.” One of the leading CCTV vendors said, “CCTV cameras were installed with sponsorship from traders and residents’ welfare associations. So, they have become inoperative since they require periodic maintenance. Some are not even linked to control rooms, needing dedicated technicians to maintain them.” However, the police said if some CCTV cameras are hanging or uprooted, they may be obsolete. The devices have a shelf life of only five years, and a few were installed in 2010 or 2011, making them unrepairable. Additional Commissioner of Police N. Kannan said, “We have enumerated the CCTV cameras installed through government funds, through sponsors and by the public. Now, all these devices have been listed and given a sixteen-digit identity number. As per the Police Commissioner’s plan, we are going to fit a device to monitor their feeds. A SIM module is being worked upon, which when installed with a digital video recorder/network video recorder, will automatically update interactive databases regarding non-functioning cameras. This will obviate delays due to physical checks and expedite repairs.” “We will have a dashboard that will give us an idea on the number of feeds coming from the CCTV network. It will monitor the health of all devices. Whatever faults come to our notice will be corrected. We have a very robust plan for installing, maintaining and monitoring the the entire network. Locations of all the CCTV cameras have been marked. We are also standardising the installation method. There is going to be a change in the profile of the city’s CCTV cameras in the coming two or three months,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cameras-in-citys-cctv-surveillance-network-go-blank/article37781790.ece
01 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Class 10 CBSE examinations in major subjects begin||The class 10 CBSE examinations in major subjects began in several schools in Tamil Nadu on Tuesday with the Social Science paper. Owing to the pandemic, the board had announced earlier this year that the 2021-22 academic year would be split into two terms, and that a board examination would be conducted at the end of each term. For these examinations at the end of Term 1, the board has come up with a new format wherein students have to take up a 90 minute paper with multiple-choice questions. “Since students have been trained in this pattern over the last few months using sample question papers, the format did not pose much of a challenge to them. Most of them found the social science paper easy,” said P.G. Subramanian, Principal, Bhavan’s Rajaji Vidyashram. Several students had their own schools as their examination centres and the examination began at 11.30 a.m.. While there were concerns raised about the rain in Chennai and several other places across Tamil Nadu over the last week as well as water logging, schools said that they had been prepared in the event of students turning up late and that they would be given extra time if needed. Geetha Nair, a social science teacher from Paavai Vidyashram, Namakkal said that the paper was a standard one and that it was fully based on the NCERT textbook. “While children had initially had apprehensions about the new format, revision tests were conducted with OMR sheets to familiarise them. Several students today were able to complete the paper much before their exam time ended,” she said. The evaluation for the papers is being carried out on the same day in schools, under the supervision of an external observer. For class 12 students, the board exams in major subjects is scheduled to begin on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/class-x-cbse-exams-in-major-subjects-commence/article37781802.ece
01 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||IIT-M staff protest dog park inspection||Non-teaching staff at the Indian Institute of Technology Madras staged a protest on the campus on Tuesday against an official inspection of the dog park. The institute has created an enclosure to hold stray dogs to protect the deer population on the campus. A team, including representatives of the People for Cattle in India (PFCI) and officials from the Animal Husbandry Department and Tamil Nadu Veterinary and Animal Sciences University, had visited the institute to inspect the animals. However, when the team arrived, they were confronted by a group of persons that said that the inspections were stressing out the dogs and demanded that the team leave the campus. “The inspection began around 10 a.m. and went on till a little after 1 p.m.,” said Shruti Vinodhraj, one of the team members. The team had visited the campus on Monday, but had to leave due to rain. The staff had met the team and wanted to make a representation. On Tuesday, the staff were present at the gate, and followed the team to the enclosure.  Arun Prasanna, PFCI, said currently, only around 60 dogs were in the enclosure while there were 188 at the time of the park’s inception. Ms. Vinodhraj said the institute had claimed that 34 dogs had been given for adoption, but it did not provide the documents to substantiate the claim. As more protesters gathered during the inspection, Ms. Vinodhraj called the Mylapore police for protection. An official from the Animal Husbandry Department, however, said she had inspected the animals and found them to be healthy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/iit-m-staff-protest-dog-park-inspection/article37781798.ece
01 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Heavy rain to largely subside this week||After torrential rain caused extensive flooding, most parts of Tamil Nadu can now heave a sigh of relief as heavy rain may subside for four or five days. A trough from the cyclonic circulation over south Arabian Sea, extending up to the Comorin area, may bring thunderstorms, with light to moderate rain, over isolated places in coastal Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Karaikal on Wednesday. Interior districts too may receive light rain in one or two places. Such scattered light to moderate rain may continue in Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Karaikal till the weekend, said officials of the Meteorological Department. During the past 24 hours, ending 8.30 a.m. on Tuesday, Veerapandi in Theni recorded 12 cm of rain — the highest in the State during the period. There are two weather systems persisting over the south Andaman Sea and the Arabian Sea. However, the Meteorological Department has said that both the systems may not have a direct impact on the State. The system over the Andaman Sea, which may become a cyclonic storm over central Bay of Bengal around December 3, is likely to reach the north Andhra Pradesh-south Odisha coast by Saturday. A low-pressure area will form over the Arabian Sea, off the Maharashtra coast, by Wednesday. S. Balachandran, deputy director general of meteorology, Chennai, said if a trough extends from the cyclonic storm, there may be some variations in the minimum temperature. “We are monitoring the weather systems for their impact. Tamil Nadu may only see a few spells of light to moderate rain. Chennai too may experience light to moderate rain in some areas till Thursday.” Back-to-back weather systems in November have brought abundant rainfall over the State. Tamil Nadu has already received 65.1 cm — 83% in excess than its seasonal average of 35.6 cm — since October 1. Most districts have either received excess or largely excess rain this monsoon, except for Madurai. This November turned out to be one of the wettest Novembers that Chennai has experienced since 1918. With rainfall recorded almost every day this November, Nungambakkam in Chennai has recorded nearly 104.4 cm of monthly rainfall. Chennai had earlier recorded 104.9 cm of rain in November 2015, and the all-time record for November still remains 108.8 cm in 1918.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/heavy-rain-to-largely-subside-this-week/article37781771.ece
01 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK looks to move HC as third party||With the State Government yet to reveal its position on the Veda Nilayam case, the AIADMK is planning to go on appeal as a “third party”, challenging the Madras High Court’s recent judgment of quashing the acquisition by the Government of the Poes Garden residence of former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa, for its conversion into a memorial. Asked about the party’s locus standi to challenge the High Court’s verdict in the light of AIADMK co-coordinator Edappadi K. Palaniswami’s statement, former Law Minister and a member of the party’s legal advisory committee C.Ve. Shanmugam said on Tuesday: “We can appeal against the judgment as a third party with the leave of the court.” [In July 2020, when the AIADMK was in power, the Government officially acquired the Veda Nilayam for turning it into a memorial]. Elaborating, Mr. Shanmugam said the party had reasons to feel aggrieved over the High Court’s decision. “As far as we [members of the AIADMK] are concerned, Amma [Jayalalithaa] is a highly revered leader, whose memory has to be perpetuated. It was in this context that the move to convert her residence, Veda Nilayam, into a memorial was made. There is a subtle difference between the Amma Samadhi [Jayalalithaa’s mausoleum on the Marina] and the proposed memorial, which would, by being maintained as it was earlier, serve the purpose of educating people about the greatness of the leader, by providing access to the place where she lived,” he said. He said memorial houses were being run by the government for former Chief Ministers K. Kamaraj and C.N. Annadurai, in addition to mausoleums for them. Mr. Shanmugam, also a nominated member of the Tamil Nadu Puratchi Thalaivi Dr. J Jayalalithaa Memorial Foundation, said: “We are not inclined to take chances in this matter, as the present Government is being headed by the DMK, which is our main adversary. We are also not aware of what decision they [the Government] will take” Executive meet The AIADMK’s executive, which will meet on Wednesday, is expected to discuss the implications of the High Court’s judgment, and take a call on the next course of action on the case. It is also learnt that the State Government has got time till mid-December for taking a decision on the matter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-looks-to-move-hc-as-third-party/article37781777.ece
01 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Panneerselvam bats for school syllabus reduction||AIADMK co-oordinator O. Panneerselvam on Tuesday called for a cut in the syllabus for students of State Board schools. Referring to reported observations of School Education Minister Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi that there would be no cut in the syllabus for school students, and additional classes would be conducted to complete the syllabus, the AIADMK leader said the Minister’s statement would only increase stress among students, parents and teachers. The syllabus has to be reduced and the public examination should be held in May, he said. Mr. Panneerselvam said physical classes were being held for students of Classes IX-XII, and since classes could not be held properly from the beginning of November, on account of the northeast monsoon, there had been demands for syllabus reduction and postponement of public examinations. In a separate statement, party co-coordinator and Leader of the Opposition Edappadi K. Palaniswami urged the Government to drop any move to wind up Amma Clinics, and retain the services of doctors and para-medical staff at the facilities. AMMK general secretary T.T.V. Dhinakaran asked the Government to fill vacancies for the posts of computer science teachers in schools, as this had not been done yet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/panneerselvam-bats-for-school-syllabus-reduction/article37781779.ece
01 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC orders enforcement of rules on erecting flex boards||The Madras High Court on Tuesday ordered the strict enforcement of the Tamil Nadu Urban Local Bodies (Permission for Erection of Digital Banners and Placards) Rules, 2011, while granting permission to erect flex boards, festoons, buntings, cut-outs and the like on roads and pavements. Acting Chief Justice Munishwar Nath Bhandari and Justice P.D. Audikesavalu directed the officials concerned to grant permission for the erection of digital banners and placards, strictly in accordance with the 2011 Rules, and ensure that parties as well as private individuals adhere to the stipulated regulations. The interim orders were passed on a couple of petitions, including one which complained of a 13-year-old boy having been electrocuted while erecting flagpoles to welcome Higher Education Minister K. Ponmudi to a marriage in the family of a DMK cadre in Villupuram on August 20. The boy had died after an iron flagpole he was erecting came in contact with a live overhead cable. Taking note that the 2011 Rules contained elaborate procedures, such as making applications, along with topo sketches of the roads where the digital banners were proposed to be put up, the judges said the rules also required applicants to obtain no-objection certificates from the police to avoid obstructing the movement of pedestrians and vehicles. Further, applicants must pay a permission fee of Rs. 200 for Corporation areas and Rs. 100 for Municipal areas, besides making a refundable deposit of Rs. 50 per digital banner. The entire deposit amount can be forfeited if any damage is caused to the roads or public properties while erecting or removing the banners. The rules also empower officials to demand additional compensation if the damages are severe.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-orders-enforcement-of-rules-on-erecting-flex-boards/article37781781.ece
01 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||More govt. projects in the pipeline||Among a slew of projects for the installation of CCTV cameras, the Metropolitan Transport Corporation (MTC) has begun installing the devices in its buses. At a cost of over Rs. 75 crore, 2,500 buses will be brought under the surveillance of CCTV cameras under the Nirbhaya Fund. Each bus is to be fitted with three cameras — two focussing on the front and rear entrances and one covering the gangway, said a MTC official. The police have been rejuvenating the Third Eye Project, wherein the existing 1.4 lakh CCTV cameras will be brought back to life. It has been planning to add 42,000 devices to cover the existing grey areas. More than 20,000 CCTV cameras are to be installed under the Smart City Project by the Greater Chennai Corporation. Sophisticated cameras were installed at the Anna Nagar roundabout to improve road discipline and help reduce traffic violations in the locality. These devices in the Traffic Regulation Observation Zone (TROZ) have helped the police automatically send e-challan to violators. Now, the TROZ has been integrated with the National Informatics Centre, which is also linked with Vahan, an integrated portal for vehicle registration across the nation. It will now track traffic violations in real time and will help reduce violations. The project is expected to be extended to other areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/more-govt-projects-in-the-pipeline/article37781787.ece
01 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||India should revive non-aligned movement: M.K. Narayanan||The Madras Management Association (MMA) along with the Konrad Adenauer Stiftung (KAS) and the Observer Research Foundation organised a conclave on ‘Positioning India in the New World Order’ in the city on Monday. M.K. Narayanan, former National Security Advisor, suggested that India must regain its moral leadership and revive the non-aligned movement. “India should not flinch in biting the bullet in dealing with China and Pakistan,” he said. The country must reopen communications with Pakistan and revitalise its relations with Russia. Pointing out that the United States is a key factor in India’s foreign policy, he said the U.S. could now undermine India’s strategic autonomy. While Heribert Dieter, senior fellow, German Institute for International and Security Affairs, spoke on the economic dimensions and the golden opportunity for India in the emerging scheme of things, Peter Rimmele, resident representative to India, KAS, stressed on the need for like-minded nations to come together to present a united front. Prof. Dieter suggested that being nearer to the European Union, relocating supply chains to India will not only reduce the logistics cost for the E.U. but also help in its efforts to manage climate change. The continuing conflict between the U.S. and China was also discussed at the conclave. Prof. Dieter said the U.S. had erred in admitting China to the World Trade Organisation in 2001. According to Gudrun Wacker, senior fellow, Asia Research Division, German Institute for International and Security Affairs, the world is looking to lower its dependence on China. Impact on the world Carlo Masala, from the University of the Bundeswehr, Munich said two major revisionist powers — Russia and China — worry the world today. “What happens in Asia will impact the world order. India cannot remain neutral for long,” he said. Stanly Johny, International Affairs Editor, The Hindu, moderated the panel discussion. Ambassador P.S. Raghavan, Chairman, National Security Advisory Board, R. Vijayakumar, MMA executive director, and C.V. Subba Rao, MMA president, also spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/india-should-revive-the-non-aligned-movement/article37781786.ece
01 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Those from ‘at risk’ countries to be tested||In the wake of the new COVID-19 variant, Omicron, the Directorate of Public Health (DPH) and Preventive Medicine has written to the Airports Authority of India (AAI), urging it to ensure that guidelines for international arrivals are scrupulously followed at the four international airports in the State. With the revised guidelines of the Union Government coming into effect on December 1, the testing of travellers from ‘at risk’ countries — South Africa, China, New Zealand, Hong Kong, Brazil, Bangladesh, Botswana, Mauritius, Zimbabwe, Singapore, Israel and European countries including the U.K. — will become compulsory on arrival, irrespective of their vaccination status. The Chennai Airport will test travellers from ‘at risk’ countries starting early Wednesday. Taking into consideration the prolonged time for testing and getting the results, airport authorities have created an exclusive corridor at T4 terminal for screening. A senior airport official said the facility could hold 450 passengers at a time. T.S. Selvavinayagam, Director of Public Health, said in a letter to the Airport Director, international airports in Chennai, Tiruchi, Coimbatore and Madurai, that passengers, who on arrival are found to be symptomatic during screening, should be immediately isolated and taken to a medical facility, in coordination with the local health authorities. For travellers from the specified countries that are at risk, their swabs should be lifted for post-arrival COVID-19 testing, at the point of arrival. Such travellers will be required to wait for their test results at the arrival airport. If they test negative, they will have to follow home quarantine for seven days. A re-test will be conducted on the eighth day of arrival in India. If such travellers test positive, their samples should be sent for genomic testing to the INSACOG laboratory network. Such people should be managed at a separate isolation facility and treated as per protocol, including contact tracing. Their contacts should be kept under institutional or home quarantine. Travellers from countries other that those at risk will be allowed to leave the airport, and should self monitor their health for 14 days after arrival. A sub-section — 5% of the total flight passengers — should undergo post-arrival testing at random.  Since international travellers should not be allowed to leave the airport till they get their RT-PCR test results, the Director of Public Health has asked the authorities to make necessary arrangements for their stay at the airport, while they wait for the results. Senior AAI officials, health officials and airlines personnel on Tuesday held a joint inspection of international terminals 3 and 4 at the Chennai airport.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/those-from-at-risk-countries-to-be-tested/article37781773.ece
01 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Youth from Kargil Nagar held under POCSO Act||The Ennore all-women police have arrested a 20-year-old youth for sexually harassing a 16-year-old girl on Tuesday. The youth was produced before a judicial magistrate and sent to prison. A police official said a missing person complaint was lodged by the girl’s parents when she did not return home after a shopping trip. A case was registered, and the police found that S. Manikandan, of Kargil Nagar, had sexually harassed the girl after abducting her under the pretext of marriage. Manikandan was arrested, and the girl was rescued and reunited with the parents.  (ChildLine operates a toll-free helpline for children in distress -1098)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/youth-from-kargil-nagar-held-under-pocso-act/article37781793.ece
01 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘HIV/AIDS prevalence at 0.18% in T.N.’||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Tuesday said the prevalence of HIV/AIDS in the State had reduced to 0.18%, from 0.38% in 2010-11, and urged everyone in the State to treat those living with the infection with love. In his message ahead of the World AIDS Day on December 1, Mr. Stalin said everyone should take a pledge to raise awareness about HIV/AIDS. He said the Government had created a trust for children living with HIV/AIDS, with a fund of Rs. 25 crore, and was implementing various welfare schemes using the interest on the deposit. This was India’s first such scheme, he said, adding that pension was also being provided to young widows whose husbands had died of the infection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hivaids-prevalence-at-018-in-tn/article37781916.ece
01 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM gives relief to kin of soldiers||Chief Minister M.K.Stalin on Tuesday presented a cheque of Rs. 20 lakh each to the widows of three Indian Army soldiers from Tamil Nadu who were killed in action. Mr. Stalin presented the cheques to the widows of K. Ekambaram from Kancheepuram district, K. Karuppasami from Thoothukudi district and P. Palani Kumar of Theni district, from the Kargil Defence Personnel Relief Fund. He also presented a certificate of appreciation to Captain S. Kubera Gandhiraj from Tiruvannamalai district who was the first Army person from Tamil Nadu to be a part of Indian Army ice skating team that traversed from Ladakh-Karakoram to Malari in Uttarakhand.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stalin-gives-relief-to-kin-of-soldiers/article37781811.ece
01 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Lockdown extended till December 15||The Tamil Nadu Government on Tuesday announced the extension of existing lockdown restrictions in the State till December 15. The Government also allowed the operation of public transport between Tamil Nadu and Kerala. The Government said the Union Home Ministry had extended the lockdown till December 31. Based on this and the monsoon in the State, the lockdown was being extended till December 15, the Government said. The Government said the “test-track-treat-vaccinate” approach and COVID-19 guidelines would be strictly enforced. Only essential activities would be allowed in containment zones, the Government said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lockdown-extended-till-december-15/article37781782.ece
01 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Two arrested for cheating people with illegal chit funds||The police have arrested a couple from Chintadripet for cheating several customers, who had deposited money in the unauthorised chit funds the couple had been operating. The accused, N. Senthil and Divya, of New Bangla Street, were produced before a judicial magistrate and sent to prison on Tuesday. A senior police official said a complaint lodged with the Central Crime Branch (CCB) by Priyadarshan stated that the couple had collected huge amounts of money for chit fund schemes from several people and failed to return it on maturity. ‘Collected Rs. 70 lakh’ Based on the complaint the CCB registered a case, and during the investigation, found that the couple was operating the chit funds without authorisation. They had collected money to the tune of Rs. 70 lakh. The police are continuing the investigation in an attempt to retrieve the money.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-arrested-for-cheating-people-with-illegal-chit-funds/article37781799.ece
01 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||VCK chief clarifies on viral video||Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi (VCK) founder Thol. Thirumavalavan on Tuesday refuted the criticism that he mistreated his cadre when he walked on the chairs to reach his car. In a video, the VCK chief was seen stepping on the chairs pulled by the party cadre to prevent his feet from getting wet. He said he was merely trying to avoid stepping on the water as he was on his way to catch a flight to New Delhi. Mr. Thirumavalavan told reporters that those who made an issue out of this had nothing to speak on people’s problems. “Some people hate me politically. It is not in my nature to mistreat my cadres,” he said. Later, he met Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman and urged her not to introduce a bill privatising nationalised banks during the winter session of Parliament. He said Ms. Sitharaman informed that though the bill had been listed, it had not been approved by the cabinet. He also said she had promised to help Tamil Nadu, which has been affected by the rain.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vck-chief-clarifies-on-viral-video/article37781803.ece
01 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Leopard sighted in residential area near Kuniyamuthur||The Forest Department has intensified surveillance in and around a residential area near Kuniyamuthur after residents claimed that they had sighted a leopard on Monday. District Forest Officer T.K. Ashok Kumar said on Tuesday that a special team had been deployed at Senthamil Nagar to monitor the movement of the leopard. A video shot by one of the residents, showing a leopard resting on a hillock in the area, emerged. The Forest Department fixed camera traps in the locality to monitor the movement of the leopard on Tuesday evening. Mr. Kumar urged people living in Senthamil Nagar and nearby residential areas to be cautious and not to venture out at night and in early morning. They were also asked to keep a watch on their livestock and domestic animals such as dogs. The residential areas of Kuniyamuthur are close to the Madukkarai forest range, which has a good leopard population. The Department had captured and translocated several leopards that had strayed into human habitations at Madukkarai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/leopard-sighted-in-residential-area-near-kuniyamuthur/article37781833.ece
01 December 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Collector, Corporation Commissioner inspect COVID-19 testing, dengue control measures||Ninety-two percent of the people in the district have received the first dose of COVID-19 vaccine and 60.12 % the second dose, District Collector G.S. Sameeran said here on Tuesday. After inspecting the COVID-19 testing and dengue control measures, along with Corporation Commissioner Raja Gopal Sunkara, he said the district was seeing only around 100 COVID-19 positive cases a day, down from the 4,500 cases a day it saw during the second wave of the pandemic in May this year. The reduction was largely due to public cooperation, the Collector said. Though the COVID-19 positive cases had come down it was not the time to let down the guard, he said. The district administration had intensified the COVID-19 testing at the Coimbatore airport as it saw arrival of international flights. Passengers arriving in Coimbatore would be let out of the airport only if their RT-PCR test results were negative. Among the international passengers in Coimbatore, those arriving from South Africa and other countries where the new Omicron variant had been reported would undergo special screening. The Collector also said the administration had strengthened screening at the inter-State border. Wearing mask, taking COVID-19 safety precaution like maintaining physical distancing, and washing hands would help reduce the infection spread, he said. The administration is lifting samples and identifying persons who were in contact with COVID-19 positive persons, the Collector said and added that he went to the Singanallur bus stand on Tuesday to not only inspect the measures being taken but also to create awareness among the public. He had directed officials concerned to slap fine on those moving around without mask. To strengthen the administration’s efforts, owners of commercial establishments, big and small, should ensure that their employees wore mask and they only let in customers with mask. After inspecting the testing at the Singanallur bus stand, the Collector and Commissioner went to check Boyar Street in Singanallur to see the anti-dengue measures the Corporation took.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/collector-corporation-commissioner-inspect-covid-19-testing-dengue-control-measures/article37781828.ece
01 December 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Association of University Teachers calls for regulation of self-financing colleges||Association of University Teachers (AUT), Tamil Nadu, has written to the Chief Minister asking for regulation of self-financing colleges. In its letter, the teachers’ body said there were 392 self-financing arts and science, 510 engineering, 750 teacher training and 41 nursing and paramedical colleges in the State. There was no law or statute to regulate the colleges, though a few judgements had said that the Tamilnadu Private College Regulation Act, 1976 applied to the arts and science colleges. But in reality, the colleges did not follow the Act. Therefore, it would only be appropriate to draw the State Government’s attention to the Kerala Self Financing College Teaching and Non Teaching Employees (Appointment and Conditions of Service) Ordinance, 2021, promulgated by the Kerala Government on February 20, 2021. Features The salient features of the Ordinance included designating the affiliating university as the regulatory body for self-financing colleges, filling up teaching and non-teaching posts as per the University regulations, appointing faculty and employees as per UGC, AICTE regulations and giving time to improve academic qualification in case they did not fulfil the qualification, making service conditions of teachers on a par with government-run and government-aided colleges and enabling the teachers to contribute to EPF and providing insurance cover. Highlighting a few more features, the Association urged the Chief Minister to bring about a similar regulation of self-financing colleges in Tamil Nadu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/association-of-university-teachers-calls-for-regulation-of-self-financing-colleges/article37781826.ece
01 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||109 new COVID-19 cases in Coimbatore||Coimbatore district on Tuesday reported 109 new cases of COVID-19. The Health Department said that 109 persons recovered from the disease and the district had 1,233 active cases as on Tuesday. The toll in the district increased to 2,464 after a 70-year-old man died of COVID-19 at a private hospital on Monday. Coimbatore district had a test positivity rate of 1.2 % on Monday when it reported 106 new cases. Tiruppur district reported 61 new cases on Tuesday, and 61 persons recovered from the infection. No deaths were reported and the toll so far remained at 999. The district had 608 active cases on Tuesday. In the Nilgiris, 13 new cases raised the overall tally to 34,093. The number of active cases was 187, and the toll so far was 213.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/109-new-covid-19-cases-in-coimbatore/article37781835.ece
01 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Insurance firm opens six branches||Tata AIA Life Insurance is adding six new branches to expand its distribution reach across Tamil Nadu, including Coimbatore and Tiruppur. The Insurer at present has over 218 branches across 25 States and 175 cities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/insurance-firm-opens-six-branches/article37781818.ece
01 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Two held for bid to break open ATM in Coimbatore||Two men from Rajasthan -- Shakeel (20) and Khalid (30) -- were arrested by the police when they were trying to break open an ATM of a nationalised bank at Chettipalayam here late on Monday. Police said the office of the bank in Mumbai received an alert around 9.30 p.m. when the duo tried to open the ATM with a key. The bank immediately alerted the Chettipalayam Police about the break-in. A team led by Sub-Inspector Muthukumar rushed to the spot. The police found Khalid attempting to steal cash from the machine while Shakeel stood guard outside. They apprehended the duo and took them to the station. According to police, the two men said while being questioned that they had gone to Kerala to deliver a consignment at the warehouse of an e-commerce firm. While returning, they withdrew Rs. 20,000 from the ATM at Chettipalayam and then attempted to loot it. They were produced before a court and remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-held-for-bid-to-break-open-atm-in-coimbatore/article37781834.ece
01 December 2021||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||Man gets 20-year jail term for rape of minor||The Cuddalore Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act court on Tuesday convicted and sentenced a 29-year-old man to 20 years Rigorous Imprisonment for raping a five-year-old girl in 2019. The POCSO court judge, M. Ezhilarasi, also directed the District Child Protection unit to provide a compensation of Rs. 5 lakh to the victim under a scheme of the Social Welfare department within 30 days of receipt of order. According to Public Prosecutor T. Kalaselvi, the victim was playing in front of her house on January 20, 2019, when the accused K. Dhanasekar gagged the girl, took her to a nearby place and raped her. The victim’s parents lodged a complaint with the Panruti All Women police. After hearing the arguments, the judge sentenced the accused to 20 years RI and slapped a fine of Rs. 5,000.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-gets-20-year-jail-term-for-rape-of-minor/article37781915.ece
01 December 2021||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||RWH units installed at 611 places||The district administration has achieved a record of sorts by installing rainwater harvesting structure in 611 locations covering 1,115 buildings in just 21 days. For the project titled “Most rooftop RWH constructed at multiple locations in 21 days”, different teams were formed and the work was initiated by Collector S Visakan on November 10. Actively coordinated by Additional Collector S. Dinesh Kumar and team, public buildings, especially, offices and schools were chosen across the district. Then, the executing teams prepared the drawing and based on it, the infrastructure was raised. Each premises has at least 9,000 litres to 18,000 litres of water stored in the RWH and subsequently pumped to the overhead tank. With the northeast monsoon rains active, almost the timing of installation of the RWH structure was perfect that over 95 % of the premises had water stored now, Mr Visakan said and added that the water for toilets in the government schools was now available adequately. Engineers attached to the District Rural Development Agency said that the district, which received 1,000 mm as annual average rainfall, may now onwards look forward to be a self-sufficient district on the water front as over one lakh square metres would now have waterspread. The officials said Chief Minister M.K. Stalin had encouraged the people to come forward and revamp the “Namakku Naame Thittam”, which would give a third of the money for any project that would improve community development. At a function, the adjudicators from the Elite World Record, Asian Records Academy, Indian Records Academy and Tamizhan Book of Records inspected the RWH installations over the last four days and presented the certificate to the Collector, who received it on behalf of the residents of Dindigul district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rwh-structures-installed-at-611-places-in-21-days-in-dindigul/article37781918.ece
01 December 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Unauthorised parking turns smart road in Periyar Nagar chaotic||With the footpath on both sides of Periyar Nagar Chidambaram Colony Road consuming 16 metres of the total road width of 40 metres, unauthorised parking of cars on the road leave little space for vehicles to move on the stretch causing frequent traffic congestion. Under the Smart City Mission, the Erode Corporation is developing Kalaimagal School Road, Jeevanandam Road, Old Poondurai Road and Periyar Nagar Chidambaram Colony Road as smart roads at a total cost of Rs. 41.30 crore. The roads were designed with footpaths on both the sides and underground pipeline systems were made. Work on all the four roads is nearing completion. But traffic congestion is common now in Periyar Nagar where platforms, each measuring eight metres, were constructed on both sides of the road thus reducing the available space for vehicles to move. Two major hospitals were located in the area that has no parking space for vehicles on its premises. Hence, the public who come to the hospitals park their two-wheelers and cars on both sides of the road. “Less than 10 metre road space is available for vehicles in both the directions to move causing frequent congestion”, said M. Kumaresan, who works in a private company. “Not many are using the platforms and hence its width should be reduced”, he said. “A permanent solution would be to construct a multiple parking lot in the area”, he added. Corporation officials said that as per the guidelines, the footpath should have a width of 1.5 metres to 1.8 metres depending on the total road width in the particular stretch. “The issue is being discussed and steps would be taken so that the road is optimally utilised”, they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/unauthorised-parking-turns-smart-road-in-periyar-nagar-chaotic/article37781937.ece
01 December 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Sloth bear rescued, released into forest||A sloth bear caught in a snare in thick bushes at Pudupeerkadavu village in Bhavanisagar was rescued and released into forest on Monday night. A bear from the reserve forest area of Bhavanisagar Range in Sathyamangalam Tiger Reserve (STR) entered the bushes and got caught in the snare. Villagers alerted the Forest Department. Wildlife veterinarian of STR K. Ashokan tranquillised the bear at 7 p.m. The animal was found healthy and without any injuries. Later, it was given antibiotics and released into the Doddakombai forest area at 9 p.m. Officials said that the bear had come out in search of food.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sloth-bear-rescued-released-into-forest/article37781820.ece
01 December 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||BJP urges DMK to reduce tax on fuel||Condemning the State government for failing to fulfill its election promise of reducing the value added tax (VAT) on petrol and diesel, members of Other Backward Caste wing of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) formed a human chain and staged a protest at Veerappanchatiram on Tuesday. Led by Modakkurichi MLA C. Saraswati, cadre said that DMK had promised in its election manifesto to reduce Rs. 5 per litre for petrol and Rs. 4 for diesel. “Instead of reducing the VAT on fuel, the DMK government wanted the Centre to reduce VAT further”, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bjp-urges-dmk-to-reduce-tax-on-fuel/article37781935.ece
01 December 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Erode district reports 69 new COVID-19 cases||Erode district on Tuesday reported 69 new cases taking the total cases to 1,06,315. While 72 persons were discharged, 804 persons continue to be under treatment. Salem district reported 47 positive cases and two deaths on Tuesday. According to health officials, 38 cases were indigenous and 17 cases were reported in Salem Corporation limits. In Namakkal, 42 cases were reported. As per bulletin, all cases were indigenous.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/erode-district-reports-69-new-covid-19-cases/article37781934.ece
01 December 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||School to celebrate 40th anniversary||Carmel Matriculation Higher Secondary School will celebrates its 40th anniversary (Ruby Jubilee 1982-2021) on December 2. A release from the school said that Fr. Thomas Cheran, Manager, Carmel Group of Institutions, will preside while Fr. Saju Chackalackal, Provincial, Preshitha Province, Coimbatore, would deliver keynote address.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/school-to-celebrate-40th-anniversary/article37781949.ece
01 December 2021||KALLAKURICHI,TAMIL NADU||Car washed away in floodwaters, driver missing||A 45-year-old cab driver has been reported missing, while two others managed to swim to safety after a car in which they were travelling was washed away in the floodwaters on a causeway near the Gadilam river in Mohalur village on Monday night. According to police, K. Kiliyan, 49, S. Sankar, 50, and cab driver Murugan, all hailing from Kiliyur village, were proceeding to Tirukovilur. When the car reached the causeway, Murugan, who was not familiar with the terrain, ventured into the waters. When the vehicle reached the middle of the causeway, the waters swept the car away into the stream. While Kiliyan and Sankar managed to come out of the car and swim to safety, Murugan was washed away. The Tirukovilur police and the Fire and Rescue Services personnel have launched a rescue operation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/car-washed-away-driver-missing/article37781817.ece
01 December 2021||Krishangiri,TAMIL NADU||Collector discusses measures to combat zoonotic diseases||A consultative meeting on zoonotic diseases was held here at the Collectorate on Tuesday. Collector V. Jayachandra Bhanu Reddy presided over the meeting to take stock of coordinated action vis-à-vis various zoonotic diseases, including dengue, chikungunya, and other water borne diseases resulting from the extended monsoons. Speaking at the meeting, the Collector called for concerted action against dengue, chikungunya, malaria, scrub typhus (caused by larval mites), leptospirosis; water borne diseases such as typhoid, jaundice, dysentery, and other zoonotic diseases. As a step in that direction, every alternate Thursday, all departments shall plan a coordinated sanitation programme in areas reporting any of the above infections and diseases. The sanitation mission shall be coordinated with all related department and disinfection activities including fumigation, chlorination of water among other interventions shall be carried out. The Collector also directed officials to ensure clean water supply to residents to prevent water borne diseases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/collector-discusses-measures-to-combat-zoonotic-diseases/article37781931.ece
01 December 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Survey of three lakes in Krishnagiri under way to clear encroachments||A survey of encroachments were carried out here on Tuesday. It was found that buildings, houses and farmlands were encroaching the main lakes choking their drainage channels, according to the administration. Mapping of the contours of the water bodies especially the Avadhanapatty lake, Devasamuthiram lake and Karim Sahib lake in Kattiganapalli has begun. Earlier, District Collector V. Jayachandra Bhanu Reddy inspected the stone markers erected as part of the survey of Avadhanapatty lake. The survey and mapping of Devasamuthiram lake revealed encroachments on the lake’s main drainage channels. There were buildings and over 50 houses built on the drainage channel of the lake, according to the administration. The third lake that came under scrutiny during the recent rain causing inundation was Kattiganapalli Karim Sahib lake, near the new bus stand. Channels carrying run off water from Chinneri near the new bus stand to Kattiganapalli lake were also choked by encroachments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/survey-of-three-lakes-in-krishnagiri-under-way-to-clear-encroachments/article37781933.ece
01 December 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Overnight downpour leads to waterlogging at sub-way||The downpour in the wee hours of Tuesday resulted in water-logging at the sub-way connecting the Workshop Road and Arapalayam that police had to divert the vehicular movement for over six hours. The rain, which had hit the normal life over the last one week, pounded the low-lying areas on Tuesday. Many pockets in Sellur were inundated and the woes of the residents in a majority of the added wards were terrible. The residents woke up to a heavy rain, which stopped only around 8.30 a.m. The four hour rain not only choked the congestion problems at peak hour, but also exposed the poor upkeep of the civic authorities. Though the officials swung into action and were engaged in pumping out the rainwater with the help of giant size motors, in many locations, the shortage of plumbers and electricians with the authorised contractors of the Madurai Corporation added to the woes. A technician, who was attending to the problems at Girder Palam (near Workshop Road) said that the 25 HP motor was under repair. Hence, water was being pumped out with one 10 HP motor. This will take at least four hours to clear out the water-logging. The CPI (M) local unit secretary Saravanan said that when the government and district administration claimed that there was no dearth of funds for carrying out temporary restoration, such poor upkeep of motors only showed the nonchalant attitude of the officials. The slackness shown by some officials brought in a bad image for the government, he claimed and hoped the top officials in the Corporation pulled up their subordinates. Many people claimed that the civic authorities were giving a stock reply that the issue would be resolved. Though the Corporation had given WhatsApp number among other platforms, the redressal was not carried out then and there. A traffic police officer said the sub-way was closed for traffic between 5 a.m. and 1 p.m. Later, at 2 p.m, the vehicles were allowed under the stretch.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/overnight-downpour-leads-to-waterlogging-at-sub-way/article37782088.ece
01 December 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Voice of the oppressed to be remedied: HC||Voice of the oppressed though expressed in the form of criticism is not meant to be oppressed and criminalised but to be listened, discussed, addressed and remedied, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has observed. “No one is beyond criticism and the Indian Constitution recognises criticism up to the level of decency and morality. It is equally seen that no purpose is going to be served by going through history and criticising kings and monarchs for the evils of today,” the court said while quashing an FIR registered against film maker Pa. Ranjith. Justice G. Ilangovan quashed the FIR on November 12 (which The Hindu reported). The full copy of the order was made available on Monday. Ranjith was booked for his remarks on King Raja Raja Cholan at an event organised by Neelapuligal Movement in Thanjavur district in 2019. The film maker sought to quash of the FIR registered by Thiruppanandal police in Thanjavur district. Ranjith contended that the speech was about erasing casteism and aimed at creating a casteless society. His intention was not to hurt the sentiments of any community. But to voice support of marginalised people. The speech was also about how people became landless. Justice Ilangovan observed that the caste system, its formation, effects and ill-effects are one of the most discussed topics, which has been spoken ever since its inception in history. The judge said history shows that what started to indicate the classification of people on the basis of profession or avocation became geneticised paving the way for the suppression of one group of the society. This paved the way for creating a society consisting of landless poor making them a class of themselves. The ill-effects of such a sort of classification of people and society were felt and revolted from its inception, as we see through the ages of history. Remedial measures were taken in the form of socio-economic and political reforms, through democratic process. “We, the people of India, in the preamble of the Indian Constitution signifies the duties, obligation of society as a whole, to promote fraternity by assuring all with dignity. The soul of the Constitution wants to heal the wounds of the oppressed by uplifting them to the level of brotherhood. Quoting B.R. Ambedkar, the judge observed that unless the society is lifted to the level of fraternity, it cannot be called as a nation as a whole in reality. The court said that remedial measures like land, social and economic reforms were introduced. When the Constitution demands such an act on the part of the State, it should not intend to penalise or criminalise the voice of the oppressed though expressed in the form of criticism.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/voice-of-the-oppressed-to-be-remedied-hc/article37781912.ece
01 December 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Saiva Siddantha followers have great responsibility in society’||The followers of Saiva Siddantha had a great responsibility to give a new meaning to the various sections of people in the society, said Thavathiru Tiruvannamalai Adheenam Kundrakudi Ponnambalam Adigalar here on Tuesday. Speaking at the 10-day valedictory function of the 17th annual Saiva Siddantha training programme held at Thiagarajar College in Teppakulam, where about 60 persons had participated, the Adigalar said that the need of the hour was to inculcate good values and bring out the humaneness as it lacked. The richness about our culture and the sheen has to be brought back. “ The Saiva Siddantha deals with not just the tradition and custom, but disseminates values and richness of our culture from time immemorial. As the educated and informed persons in the society, we had a great responsibility,” he said. Presiding over the valedictory function, college secretary Hari K. Thiagarajan said that the training given to 60 persons here in two different scales should be carried forward to a larger section of the people. The richness about the Saiva Siddantha and its philosophy should be spread which would reap good deeds. The students, who were benefitted from the 10-day training, thanked the organisers for the opportunity and said that they were stepping out with a reservoir of knowledge. Principal Dr. Pandiaraja who proposed a vote of thanks said that the 10-day programme commenced on November 21. A book Saiva Siddantha - an introduction was released.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/saiva-siddantha-followers-have-great-responsibility-in-society/article37781911.ece
01 December 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Postal department employees felicitated||The Department of Posts, Southern Region, on Tuesday felicitated 96 postal department employees for their achievement at the Regional Achievement Awards function held in Madurai. Awards were given away under various categories. Addressing the achievers, V. Sadasivam, retired member (HR), Postal Services Board, said the employees of the Postal Department were known for their discipline and tendency to help others. This was unique to the Postal Department, he said. The employees were up to date with the latest technology, he said and pointed out that they understood and adapted to technology while referring to the digitisation of various postal schemes. The Postmaster General of the Southern Region, Madurai, G. Natarajan, said that it was necessary to take the schemes to rural areas for the benefit of the people and the Postal Department was putting in their best efforts. Pointing to the fact that the Postal Department lost many employees due to COVID-19 pandemic, the Director of Postal Services, Southern Region, Madurai, K. Raveendran, said that Tamil Nadu, in particular, the Southern Region had contributed significantly to the Postal Department. Assistant Director (Tech and BD) of Southern Region, Madurai, K. Kalaivani, welcomed the gathering and Assistant Director (Mails and Estt.) of Southern Region, Madurai, J. Pratheep Kumar, proposed a vote of thanks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/postal-department-employees-felicitated/article37782091.ece
01 December 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||HC dismisses plea for premature release||Dismissing a petition filed by life convict P. Veera Bhaarathi seeking a direction to the State government to consider his request for premature release, the Madurai Bench of Madras High Court on Tuesday made it clear that premature release was not a matter of right. Life sentence means that it is for the entire life, a Division Bench of Justices S. Vaidyanathan and G. Jayachandran said. The court took note of the fact that the Advisory Board had found the convict was not fit for premature release and did not recommend it. It said that Rule 339 of the prison manual contemplates the procedure to be adopted by the Advisory Board constituted for considering premature release. The history of the prisoner, circumstances of criminal behaviour and conduct in prison should be noted. Also, the board should note the response to the training and treatment, notable changes in attitude, degree of criminality, health and mental health conditions, possibility of resettlement after release and circumstances not before the court at the time of the conviction. Considering the merits of the case based on prison records and submissions made by the life convict, the Advisory Board rejected the request. The government accepted the recommendation. The court took note of the fact that the convict had served more than 14 years in jail. He was granted emergency and ordinary leave more than 100 times. He obtained parole on the grounds that he wants to effectively contest the application. Under Rule 339 of the Tamil Nadu Prison Rules, good conduct was one of the factors for considering premature release. It was not the only factor. There were other factors that were not favourable to the convict. Therefore, he was found unfit for premature release. The State government was the final authority to exercise the power of remission. It accepted the recommendation of the Advisory Board to reject the request of the convict. The scope of the court while exercising its power under judicial review was very limited, the judges said. Veera Bhaarathi who argued the case party-in-person challenged the government order that rejected his request. In 1999, Virudhunagar Principal Sessions Court convicted him and two others on the charges of rape and murder of a 16-year-old girl. The sessions court imposed the death sentence on the convict. The Madras High Court in 2000 commuted the death sentence to life imprisonment and the Supreme Court also upheld the life sentence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-dismisses-plea-for-premature-release/article37781920.ece
01 December 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||De-seal two buildings: HC||The Madurai Bench of Madras High Court has directed Madurai district administration to de-seal two buildings of Russ Foundation that was locked and sealed following allegations of sexual assault on a girl inmate of the home run by the foundation in 2019. Justice G.R. Swaminathan directed the authorities to remove the lock and seal forthwith. He observed that the case had to be taken to a logical conclusion. But, the authorities had not demonstrated the need for the buildings to remain under lock and seal. It was hearing a petition filed by Russ Foundation challenging the Collector’s order that rejected the representation to de-seal the buildings. There were valuables inside the two buildings, said Russ Foundation. Berlin Jose of Russ Foundation and his employee John Prabhakar were arrested in the 2019 sexual assault case of a girl inmate. They were remanded in judicial custody and then detained under the Goondas Act. The detention order was set aside and they were later granted bail.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/de-seal-two-buildings-hc/article37782089.ece
01 December 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Water level||Water level in Mullaperiyar dam on Tuesday reached the maximum permissible level of 142 feet with an inflow of 2,210 cusecs and a discharge of 2,300 cusecs. In Vaigai dam, the level was 70.01 ft. (71 ft.) with an inflow of 3,205 cusecs and a discharge of 4,951 cusecs. Combined storage in Periyar credit was 11,095 mcft. Rainfall recorded in various places in the 24 hours ending at 6 a.m. on Tuesday was in (mm): Veerapandi 119, Shanmuganadhi dam 71.5, Thaniyamangalam 68.9, Uthamapalayam 63.9, Idayapatti 62, Gudalur 56.5, Viraganur 54.8, Melur 47, Chittampatti 42.6, Kuppanampatti 40, Kallandiri 34.2, Madurai 31.5, Thekkadi 29.4, Kodaikanal 28.6, Pulipatti 28.2, Andipatti 27.2, Mettupatti and Vaigai dam 25, Peranai 19, Sothupparai dam and Sathiyar dam 15, Maruthanadhi dam 14, Periyar 12.2 and Manjalar dam 10.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article37781921.ece
01 December 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Driver found murdered||M. Pandian, 35, of Periyakulam in Theni district, a call-taxi driver, was found murdered near Alanganallur on Tuesday morning. The police said that the body bore multiple cut injuries and his throat was slit open. The body was found on an agricultural land at Kottaimedu. The taxi was also missing. Alanganallur police are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/call-taxi-driver-found-murdered/article37781924.ece
01 December 2021||Namakkal,TAMIL NADU||Namakkal Collector inspects Thusur lake||District Collector Shreya P. Singh inspected the Thusur lake here which had filled up due to recent rain on Tuesday. The lake, which is one of the largest in the district, is spread over an area of 295 acres and can store 66.69 million cubic feet of water and 542.82 acres of agricultural land benefits through this lake. According to officials, the lake had filled up to its full level after over 10 years and the surplus water is flowing into Aroor lake. The Collector also inspected renovation works of a pond at Pettapalayam and Govindapillai lake here. According to officials, due to the recent rain, 30 lakes out of 79 in the district had filled up to its full level. The lakes which had attained 100% capacity could store 553.93 million cubic feet of water and 3318.47 hectares of agricultural land would benefit by these water bodies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/namakkal-collector-inspects-thusur-lake/article37781941.ece
01 December 2021||Namakkal,TAMIL NADU||Namakkal administration reviews measures to tackle Omicron variant||The Namakkal district administration reviewed containment measures amid reports of Omicron variant of COVID-19 virus on Monday. District Collector Shreya P.Singh said in a release that district is connected with various States in terms of business and hence those returning to the district from other States must strictly follow COVID-19 safety protocols. Ms.Singh said that the people should wear masks, follow hand sanitation and maintain physical distance in public places. The Collector said that as death rate was low in the district during the first wave, the public took the safety protocols casually during the second wave and it caused a peak in positive cases in the district. The Collector advised all eligible persons to take vaccination and asked school and college students to create awareness among their parents and kin. Police, revenue and local body officials were advised to take necessary action against persons violating COVID-19 safety protocols.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/namakkal-administration-reviews-measures-to-tackle-omicron-variant/article37781947.ece
01 December 2021||NEW DELHI,TAMIL NADU||SC to allow setting up of medical board to aid Jaya death probe panel||The Supreme Court on Tuesday said it will pass orders to allow the setting up of a medical board of AIIMS doctors to help the Justice A. Arumughaswamy Commission of Inquiry gather the facts on the death of former Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Jayalalithaa at Apollo Hospital in Chennai in 2016. A Bench of Justices S. Abdul Nazeer and Krishna Murari said it would permit Apollo Hospital to apply to the Commission of Inquiry (CoI) for “relevant” documents and to examine “relevant” witnesses. The Bench said the directions of the High Court with regard to the CoI sticking to the ambit of its jurisdiction and following procedure would stand. The court said the orders would include the assurance given by the CoI, Apollo Hospital and the Tamil Nadu Government that they would “co-operate for an early completion of the inquiry”. The Tamil Nadu Government, represented by senior advocate Dushyant Dave, said it would provide the CoI a 700 sq. ft room with a dais to easily accommodate the proceedings and maintain its dignity. Initially, during the hearing, the State objected to several requests made in an application filed by Apollo Hospital, represented by senior advocate Aryama Sundaram and advocate Rohini Musa. Omnibus requests Mr. Dave said the requests were of an “omnibus” nature and would see “the matter drag on”. "We have already spent crores,” he emphasised. Mr. Sundaram countered that the “hospital is equally anxious about the possibility of the inquiry being dragged on”. Mr. Dave said the parties could approach the High Court again with one grievance or the other and delay the inquiry. Justice Nazeer suggested that Apollo Hospital could indicate the documents it wanted. Mr. Dave said there should be some restriction on the number of documents and witnesses sought by the hospital. He said the court should also give the CoI a time limit. Senior advocate Ranjit Kumar, appearing for the CoI, said there would be “no question” of the medical board directly giving Apollo Hospital a copy of its report. “The report will be given to the CoI. Apollo can ask the government for the report,” Mr. Kumar said. He submitted that the pandemic was still on, and there should be no insistence on having doctors from AIIMS, Delhi, on the medical board which would be based in Chennai. The court then wrapped up the hearing, saying it would pass orders. Apollo Hospital had moved the apex court, accusing the CoI of bias, violating the principles of natural justice and conducting the fact-finding exercise outside its jurisdiction. The CoI had denied the allegation of bias, saying it was “rhetorically made without providing any perspective of the matter”. Reputation blighted Mr. Sundaram had contended that the reputation of the premier hospital in Chennai had been “blighted overnight” by the CoI, which took a tangent which was “unbelievable”. The senior lawyer had said the path followed by the CoI was straight out of the fairy tale ‘Alice in Wonderland’. The hospital had urged the Supreme Court to direct the CoI to share records and permit it to participate in the examination of witnesses in the inquiry process. The State had appointed the inquiry commission, headed by Justice Arumughaswamy, a retired Madras High Court judge, on September 25, 2017. The CoI’s reference was to examine the circumstances leading to the hospitalisation of Jayalalithaa on September 22, 2016 and the nature of the treatment provided to her in order to determine the cause of her hospitalisation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sc-to-allow-setting-up-of-medical-board-to-aid-jaya-death-probe-panel/article37781769.ece
01 December 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||‘Speed up clearance for setting up industries’||Industries Minister A. Namassivayam held a meeting with heads of various departments in Puducherry on Monday, to elicit their views on the steps to be adopted for faster clearance for setting up industrial units. Mr. Namassivayam, who also holds the Home portfolio, asked officials to prepare department-wise guidelines to be followed to speed up clearance for establishing industries. Industries Secretary T. Arun told The Hindu the the discussion centred on how systemic changes could be made for ensuring ease of doing business. “The Minister made certain suggestions about how fast clearances should be given following the rules and procedures. He has asked the departments to prepare rules and procedures and publish them on the website. This will help those applying for clearance to prepare in advance,” he said. The Minister directed officials, to put in place mechanisms, to avoid unnecessary delays in giving approvals. “We are trying to improvise the Single Window Clearance system. The department is working on the issue. If more changes need to be made for faster clearance, it will be done,” he added. Officials from labour, environment, revenue, electricity, local administration and public works departments attended the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/speed-up-clearance-for-setting-up-industries/article37782139.ece
01 December 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||French Senator meets CM||Damien Regnard, Senator of the French Living Abroad, who is on a brief visit to the city as part of an India visit, on Tuesday called on Chief Minister N. Rangasamy. Mr. Regnard, who is an elected representative in the Upper House of the French Parliament, was accompanied by French Consul General Lise Talbot Barre. An official press note said the discussions centred on opportunities and facilities for French investors and entrepreneurs in the Union Territory. Agriculture Minister C. Djeacoumar was also present. The delegation that included members of the Indo-French Chamber of Commerce and Industry (IFCCI) also held discussions with Home Minister A. Namassivayam. Shortly afterwards, Ms. Barre posted on Twitter: “Looking forward (to) Indo-French partnerships in industry development”. A press note from the Consulate said Mr. Regnard was on his second visit to India, as part of initiatives to strengthen political, cultural, economic and commercial exchanges between India and France. During his ongoing visit, he has been interacting with French community residents in South India. He also visited French institutional, administrative, educational, cultural and scientific networks located in South India. The Senator has also visited French companies and participated in a series of high-level exchanges to support the development and economic relations between the two countries. On Monday, he visited the Alliance Française and the French Institute of Pondicherry. Later, he visited the chocolate factory Mason & Cie, founded by French nationals. On Tuesday, the Senator visited the Consulate General of France in Pondicherry and the Lycée Français International School. He also interacted with the three newly-elected advisors of the French living abroad. His schedule also included visiting the special economic zone in the presence of the Director of Industry, Y.L.N. Reddy, and an informal meet-up with the club of French entrepreneurs in Puducherry. On Wednesday, Mr. Regnard is slated to visit the nursery school of the Lycée Français International before leaving for Chennai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/french-senator-meets-cm/article37782137.ece
01 December 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Alliance Francaise elects new members, plans calendar||The newly-elected executive committee of the Alliance Francaise in Puducherry has plans for an event-filled cultural calendar even as it looks to reinforce its role as a hub for the advancement of French language and popularising Gallic art and culture. The new team of office-bearers, featuring a mix of familiar hands and new faces, was chosen in elections held on Friday. Satish Nallam was unanimously re-elected as president of the 11-member executive committee of Alliance Francaise. Of the 153 members, 108 had cast their votes. The other key members are Venguattaramane Ramadurai (vice president), Sundaravelu Pannirselvame (general secretary) and Muthukumaran Swethakumar (treasurer). “Apart from hosting cultural shows, we plan to launch tie-ups with government schools and colleges for offering French language courses,” said Dr. Nallam. Alliance Francaise will shortly host an international film festival. A Satyajit Ray retrospective has been scheduled from December 17 to 19. The Alliance Francaise, which has been a collaborator for the French Consulate’s flagship Francophonie festival, is also keen to strengthen cultural exchange programmes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/alliance-francaise-in-puducherry-elects-new-members-plans-calendar/article37781914.ece
01 December 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Omicron threat: UT to issue guidelines soon for travellers coming in||The Union Territory will shortly issue guidelines for travellers coming into Puducherry in the wake of a global alert on the emergence of the Omicron coronavirus variant. As of now, two out of three travellers from Africa, have been placed under observation. Officials who briefed Lt. Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan during a Covid Task Force meeting at the Raj Nivas, said that while one person was in Reddiarpalayam and the other in Karikkalampakkam, the third person was yet to complete quarantine. The travellers reached Puducherry about a week ago. Health Director G. Sriramulu said a framework of precautionary measures had been prepared and was expected to be approved shortly. The guidelines are broadly based on those framed by the Ministry of Home Affairs and Health Ministry. The MHA directions to States/Union Territories have recommended rigorous screening and testing of all international arrivals. It also stipulated tracking and testing of contacts of the international travellers and the samples of travellers turning positive sent to the designated Genome Sequencing Laboratories promptly, as per the Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genomics Consortium (INSACOG) Guidance Document. The States and Union Territories have also been asked to ensure adequate infrastructure and supervised home isolation. Among the measures being proposed is heightened border surveillance and insisting on vaccination proof for travellers. Stricter implementation of mask wearing and social distancing in public places is also proposed. As part of efforts to achieve 100% inoculation against COVID-19, an intensive drive is scheduled to be held on December 4 and 5. The Health department has undertaken door-to-door vaccination, officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/omicron-threat-guidelines-soon-for-travellers-coming-in/article37782141.ece
01 December 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||31 new cases, zero death in Puducherry||No COVID-19 death was reported in the Union Territory even as 31 new cases were detected on Tuesday. Mahe logged 14 of the new cases, which were detected from 2,311 tests, followed by Puducherry (9), Karaikal (6) and Yanam (2). With 43 patients recovering from COVID-19 in the last 24 hours, the active cases stood at 284. This comprised 57 patients in hospital and 227 in home isolation. The test positivity rate was 1.34%, case fatality rate 1.45% and recovery rate 98.33%.  The Union Territory has so far recorded an aggregate of 1,28,924 cases against 1,26,768 recovered patients. Of an estimated 19.83 lakh tests conducted so far, over 16.82 lakh returned negative. Meanwhile, 7,650 persons took the jab against COVID-19 in the last 24 hours. The Union Territory has so far administered 12,26,238 vaccine doses. Cuddalore district recorded nil COVID-19-related deaths on Tuesday. Five persons tested positive, taking the tally of active cases to 64,399. In Villupuram district, three persons tested positive, taking the tally to 46,018. Kallakurichi district reported three cases, taking the total number of infections to 31,559. The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 50,194 with 15 new cases reported on Tuesday. While 48,902 people have been discharged, the active cases in the district stand at 151. The district’s toll is 1,141.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/31-new-cases-in-ut/article37781906.ece
01 December 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||‘Drop plan to allow private varsities in U.T.’||Former MLA and AIADMK Puducherry election wing secretary Vaiyapuri Manikandan, has urged the government to drop its plan to allow setting up of private universities in the Union Territory. Citing reports that two private medical colleges in Puducherry have evinced interest in setting up universities, he said the decision would have far-reaching implication on aspiring medical candidates. Private medical colleges are already not adhering to the government request to part with 50% of their seats under the government quota, he said in a statement. Further, the conversion of some medical colleges into deemed universities has deprived a large section of local students from getting admission. Once private medical colleges are upgraded into private universities they would not provide seats under the government quota, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/drop-plan-to-allow-private-varsities-in-ut/article37782140.ece
01 December 2021||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||Ten workers injured in building collapse||Ten labourers were injured after an old private building collapsed in Pudukottai town when the structure was being demolished on Tuesday. The incident occurred in the morning on South Second Street when about 20 labourers were involved in demolition of the building that was once a textile shop. Even as work was under way, the two-storeyed building collapsed all of a sudden. The heavy downpour in Pudukottai town over the past few days was cited as a reason for collapse of the structure. Acting on an alert, a team of firefighters led by Assistant District Officer, Pudukottai, P. Karthikeyan rushed to the spot. While some labourers worked on the top portion of the building, others were on the ground. Seven labourers were trapped inside, while the remaining managed to escape, said Mr. Karthikeyan. The firefighters rescued seven labourers one after the other. A few others on top were rescued using a ladder. The building had remained unused for nearly 10 years, added Mr. Karthikeyan. It is said to have been sold to another person by the owner. The rescued labourers were admitted in Pudukottai Medical College Hospital. Police sources said a woman was among the injured. Minister for Law S. Regupathy and Collector Kavitha Ramu inspected the spot and oversaw the rescue operation. The debris were cleared using earthmovers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ten-workers-injured-as-old-building-collapses-in-pudukottai/article37781891.ece
01 December 2021||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Four persons get life term in car driver murder case||The Additional District Judge Srinivasan on Tuesday awarded life term to four persons who were charged with murder of a car driver in April 2013. According to the prosecution, Muthusami alias Ahamed (38) and Bas alias Baskaran (37) of Valantharavai under Kenikarai police station limits had previous enmity. They were suspected to be dealing with finance. When Muthusami, a car driver, was at his house, Baskaran asked him to come to a location near Kundoorani temple. Sensing some trouble, Muthusami went to the spot with his relative Raja (33). As expected, Baskaran, who was present, had a wordy altercation. Suddenly, four of his accomplices named Jayakrishnan (36), Dinesh (29), Satish (32) and Arjunan (29) attacked Muthusami who fell unconscious. Raja fled the scene and informed the police about the crime. A team of officers came to the spot and seized the body. Meanwhile, a case of murder was registered and all the accused were arrested. The court also imposed Rs. 5,000 fine each and acquitted Satish. In the event of not fulfilling the direction, the accused should serve another six months in jail, the judge ordered. The prime accused, Baskaran, who was on bail, was absconding for a few years. Subsequently, he surrendered before the court. The police said that Baskaran figured in a double-murder case in Ramanathapuram district in 2018.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/four-persons-get-life-term-in-car-driver-murder-case/article37781919.ece
01 December 2021||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Commissioner, MLA inspect Chengal dam||Salem Corporation Commissioner T.Christuraj and DMK MLA R. Rajendran inspected the causeway at Chengal dam near Ammapet on Tuesday. Residents in the region had been demanding authorities concerned to construct a high level bridge instead of a causeway as the public find it difficult to use it during heavy flow of water. Mr. and Mr. Rajendran and reviewed possibilities of constructing a bridge on the premises. According to officials, the causeway is an important path used by the residents of Mookaneri, Kumaran Nagar and New Colony. According to officials, a bridge has been proposed at an approximate cost of Rs. .1.5 crore. Officials have been asked to prepare a detailed project report. The authorities also inspected ongoing UGD works on Kapilar street.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/commissioner-mla-inspect-chengal-dam/article37781942.ece
01 December 2021||salem,TAMIL NADU||Health inspectors demand job permanency||Health inspectors staged a protest in front of the office of Deputy Director of Health Services here on various demands, including job permanency who were recruited during the COVID-19 pandemic. They also demanded the State government to not to terminate the health inspectors. They said that the services of these inspectors should not be terminated at the moment when a new COVID-19 virus variant has been identified. They also demanded that their Union leaders, who were arrested for protesting in Chennai, be released.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/health-inspectors-demand-job-permanency/article37781945.ece
01 December 2021||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Family of sexual abuse victim allege ill-treatment by police||Family of a sexual abuse victim along with social activist Valarmathi visited District Collectorate here on Tuesday and petitioned about ill-treatment by police personnel during investigation of the case. The victim along with family members demanded the district administration to take necessary action against the police personnel. The victim’s mother in a petition to District Collector said that a person from the neighbourhood sexually harassed their daughter while the victim was alone at their home in Veeranam recently. According to the petition, they were called in for inquiry by Ammapet All Women Police Station on Monday. The petitioners charged that police personnel manhandled the victim and her mother.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/family-of-sexual-abuse-victim-allege-ill-treatment-by-police/article37781943.ece
01 December 2021||salem,TAMIL NADU||Man gets double life sentence||Principal District Judge here sentenced a man to double life imprisonment for murdering two persons in July 2020. According to police, Madesh and Oppuli developed acquaintance with Selvakumar. Following previous enmity, Selvakumar murdered the duo offering drinks laced with poison. Judge S. Kumaraguru also imposed a fine of Rs. 2,000 on the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-gets-double-life-sentence/article37781946.ece
01 December 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||220 kg of gutkha seized, two arrested||The police arrested two persons and seized 220 kg of gutkha worth Rs. 2.32 lakh near Karuppur toll gate during the early hours of Monday. According to police, they intercepted a vehicle moving towards Salem from Bengaluru. On checks,  police found several sacks of banned tobacco products. The arrested were S.Arun and D. Srikanth from Mysuru.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/220-kg-of-gutkha-seized-two-arrested/article37781938.ece
01 December 2021||Salem/Erode,TAMIL NADU||Outflow from Mettur dam reduced||The discharge from Mettur dam was reduced on Tuesday. According to officials from Public Works Department at 8 a.m, the water level at the dam was 120ft. The dam received an inflow of 18,500 cusecs of water. The discharge was reduced to 16,000 cusecs by 9 a.m. At 5 p.m, the dam received an inflow of 13,500 cusecs. 13,000 cusecs was released to Cauvery river and 500 cusecs was released through canal. Water level at Bhavanisagar dam The water level at the Bhavanisagar dam stood at 104 feet against the full reservoir level (FRL) of 105 feet on Tuesday. At 8 a.m., the inflow into the dam was 2,242 cusecs while the discharge was 1,000 cusecs into River Bhavani and 1,500 cusecs into Lower Bhavani Project (LBP) canal. The storage was 31.95 thousand million cubic feet (tmc) against the capacity of 32.80 tmc. The rainfall recorded in the area was 3.2 mm.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/outflow-from-mettur-dam-reduced/article37781948.ece
01 December 2021||Sivakasi,TAMIL NADU||Boy arrested on murder charge||A minor boy has been arrested on the charge of murdering S. Michael Ajay (9) of Sithurajapuram here over a petty quarrel. The arrested boy, aged 13, is studying 8th standard. According to police, D. Sesu (39), working in a printing unit, lodged a complaint on Saturday with Sivakasi town police that his second son Ajay was missing from Friday. Meanwhile, the boy’s body was found in a water channel on Monday. After two days of inquiry, the police got a video footage from a closed-circuit television camera network which showed that the deceased was walking with the delinquent boy, Virudhunagar Superintendent of Police M. Manohar said. When police questioned him, the boy confessed to the crime, the police said. Inquiry revealed the boys had fought with each other several times. Angered over these issues, he took Ajay to a waterbody under the pretext of training him for swimming but pushed him into it. Minor boy hacked A 16-year-old boy suffered bleeding injuries, when two local persons, including a minor boy, hacked him with a machete at Tiruthangal near Sivakasi on Monday. The police said that the injured boy of Pasumpon Nagar was admitted to the Government Rajaji Hospital in Madurai. Police said the injured had enmity with the accused A. Harish Pandian (19) and his minor friend over posting messages against each other in the social media.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/boy-arrested-on-murder-charge/article37781926.ece
01 December 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Silk traders observe bandh||Silk traders at Thirubhuvanam in the district downed their shutters for 12 hours on Tuesday in support of their demand to exclude handloom silk products from GST network. The traders gathered under the banner of Thirubhuvanam Handloom Silk Weaving Protection Committee, an association of silk traders in Thirubhuvanam, and shut down their outlets from 6 a.m. to 6 p.m. They exhorted the government to initiate steps to bring down the cost of raw silk and ensure that adequate quantity of raw silk was made available to weavers at affordable cost through import. They also staged a demonstration in main bazaar area.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/silk-traders-observe-bandh/article37781888.ece
01 December 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Swami Vivekananda’s visit to Kumbakonam to be celebrated||The Ramakrishna Math, Thanjavur, has proposed to celebrate the 125th year of the visit of Swami Vivekananda to Kumbakonam. Schools to conduct events Four years after his historic erudition at Parliament of World Religions in 1893, the Hindu monk visited Kumbakonam in February 1897. He delivered a speech on ‘Vedanthathin Pani’ at Town Hall and visited educational institutions during his three-day stay in the town. In a move to commemorate the visit of Swami Vivekananda to Kumbakonam, the Ramakrishna Math, Thanjavur, has joined hands with Town Hall management and schools to organise events from February 3 to 5||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/swami-vivekanandas-visit-to-kumbakonam-to-be-celebrated/article37781895.ece
01 December 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||‘Sterlite Copper did not pollute Thoothukudi’||Demanding the reopening of Sterlite Copper plant, which remains closed since May 2018 after the violent protest that witnessed the killing of 13 persons, a group of villagers and the fisherwomen submitted petition during the weekly grievances redressal meet held at the Collectorate on Monday. Villagers from T. Kumaragiri and Pandaarampatti and the fisherwomen from Terespuram and Lourdhammalpuram submitted separate petitions. They said systematic and malicious campaigns were organised by a group of people who accused the Sterlite Copper unit of seriously polluting the coastal town and thereby causing a range of ailments. However, a study recently conducted by Anna University had revealed that the pollution level in Thoothukudi remained the same before and after the closure of Sterlite Copper. In other words, the copper smelter was not responsible for the pollution of Thoothukudi, according to the findings of Anna University. The Collector should recommend to the State Government for the early re-opening of Sterlite Copper as the indefinite closure of this unit had left a few thousand families without any income for the past three-and-a-half years. Congress functionary Machendran submitted a petition seeking the upgrading of Kumaragiri village panchayat into town panchayat as the rural local body’s revenue had increased manifold following the establishment of the airport and a good number of industries. A group of people from Mudukkukaadu submitted a petition seeking laying of road via salt pans in their area to ensure easy access to the school. A group of BJP functionaries, after staging demonstration in front of the Collectorate, condemned the Tamil Nadu Government’s failure to reduce fuel price by slashing the tax.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sterlite-copper-didnt-pollute-thoothukudi/article37782164.ece
01 December 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Let up in rainfall brings relief to residents||Though officials and water managers heaved a sigh of relief due to the let-up in rain in catchment areas of the Koraiyar and the Ariyar, there has been no respite for several residential colonies in Tiruchi that have been facing the onslaught of water inundation for more than two weeks. According to data available with the State Disaster Management Agency, Iluppur and Viralimalai in Pudukottai district, the main catchment areas of Koraiyar, recorded 5 mm and 7.10 mm of rainfall during the last 24 hours ending 6 am on Tuesday. Similarly, Manapparai, another catchment area of the Koraiyar and the Ariyar, too recorded less than 5 mm. It ultimately brought down the inflow in the two rivers and, subsequently, in the Kudamuriti too. About 8,000 cusecs of water from the Koraiyar and the Ariyar flowed in the Kudamuriti on Monday. It began to recede early on Tuesday. It came down to about 5,000 cusecs around 10 a.m., thereby bringing big relief to officials, water managers and the affected people, who were keeping their fingers crossed due to rise in water level above the danger mark at various points. It helped the officials to restore normalcy on Pirattiyur on Tiruchi-Dindigul Road and at Shanmuga Nagar on Tiruchi-Vayalur Road, where spillover water from the Ariyar and the Kudamuriti flowed on Monday. But other than that, the let-up in water level did not bring immediate relief to residents living along the banks of the Ariyar and the Kudamuriti, who have been facing water inundation for more than two weeks. According to official sources, at least 50 residential localities in the city have been affected by water inundation. Until last week, the residential colonies situated on the western banks of the Kudamuriti were mainly affected due to water spillover at various vulnerable points. But the sudden surge in the water level on Sunday and Monday caused water entering in colonies on the eastern banks of the Kudamuriti too. Tales of woe Shanta Sheela Nagar and Athi Nagar were among the worst hit. Almost all 300 houses in Athi Nagar and 200 houses in Shanta Sheela Nagar were partially submerged in water, thereby forcing the residents to come out of their dwellings. Along with children including newborn babies, the residents spent the day and night for the last three days under the tarpaulin tents erected by them on the eastern bund of the Kudamuriti. “My house is under the neck-deep water. All household utensils and valuables are floating. I had no other option but to lock the door and take refuge on the bund,” said V. Subramanian (70) of Shanta Sheela Nagar. Several residents said they hardly had good sleep since water entered their houses on Sunday. “We can not describe our sufferings as we spent sleepless nights on the bund for two days on Sunday and Monday as the water level in Kudamuriti kept increasing. We do not know how long we will have to live on the bund,” said M. Manickam, another resident. A senior official told The Hindu that the breach on the right banks of the Ariyar for about 200 meters had caused water inundation on the residential colonies along Tiruchi-Dindigul road. The timely action to prevent the breach on the left bank saved the situation. Otherwise, the heavy flow in the Ariyar would have led to flooding in the Uyyakondan canal. It ultimately would have led to water entering many residential colonies in the heart of the city. Stating that the situation was under control, the official said water had started receding in the rivers, watercourses and residential colonies. There was no cause for worry as there was no heavy rain forecast for the next few days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/let-up-in-rainfall-brings-relief-to-residents/article37781898.ece
01 December 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Change of guard at NIT-Trichy||The Ministry of Education, New Delhi, has effected a change of guard at the National Institute of Technology- Trichy (NIT-T) following completion of the five-year tenure of outgoing Director Mini Shaji Thomas. G. Kannabiran, Senior Professor of NIT-Trichy, and Director of Indian Institute of Information Technology, Sri City, Andhra Pradesh, has been appointed as Director In-Charge. First woman chief Ms. Mini Shaji Thomas joined the Institute in 2016 as the first woman Director. Under her stewardship, the institution rose to be the first among the 31 NITs due to periodical recruitment drives that resulted in addition of 119 faculty including 27 young women. Five new academic programmes were launched and Six Centres of Excellence were established to enable high-end research. The laurels won by NIT-T over the last five years include National Supercomputing facility, National MOOCs coordinator, Prime Ministers Research Fellows Awards, National Research Development Corporation - Innovation Facilitation Centres, and TCS AI Centre. As the seniormost professor, Mr. Kannabiran had served NIT-T for over three decades in various roles including Head of the Department of Management and Dean of Research & Consultancy at the institute level. He also served as Director i/c of NIT-T in 2016. A recipient of Commonwealth Professional Fellowship, Fulbright Fellowship and a British Council Study Fellowship, Mr. Kannabiran served as the national expert of Asian Productivity Organisation for international research studies in the areas of Higher Education and Smart Manufacturing. As the Founding Director of Centre for Entrepreneurship Development and Incubation (Section 8 Company promoted by NITT), he obtained major grants from Ministry of Information Technology, Government of India, Sonata Software Ltd, Asia Foundation and others for promoting innovation and entrepreneurship. Mr. Kannabiran led the institute to win 'High Impact Entrepreneurship Campus Award 2015' jointly conferred by Government of India. Mr. Kannabiran headed the Centre for SME Research Development at NIT-T and carried out sponsored projects with national and international funding including MeitY, AICTE, UKIERI, and The Asia Foundation, for about Rs. 7 crore in the areas of Industry-Institute Interaction, Computer-based Learning, Entrepreneurship Development, IT Graduate Employability, SME development, and Data Privacy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/change-of-guard-at-nit-trichy/article37781909.ece
01 December 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||BJP cadre form human chain in Tiruchi, Thanjavur districts||About 200 BJP members on Tuesday formed a human chain here condemning the DMK government for not reducing the prices of petrol and diesel. The party members lined up from Head Post Office to Melapudur carrying placards demanding that the State government reduce the prices of fuel. The agitation, which went on for about 40 minutes, was organised by the party's Other Backward Classes wing. BJP urban district president Rajasekar and Other Backward Classes wing district secretary Muthuselvam were among those who participated, said police sources. In Thanjavur district, BJP cadre of the OBC Wing and Unorganised Sector Wing staged a similar demonstration. The demonstrators, who lined up from near the railway station to Aathupalam junction on Gandhiji Salai, raised slogans urging the DMK government to revise the State tax levied on petrol and diesel commensurate to the cut effected in the Central tax on fuel prices by the BJP government. They also raised slogans demanding quick paddy procurement in delta districts and disbursement of relief assistance in cash and kind to people including farmers whose crop was affected in the recent downpour.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bjp-cadre-form-human-chain-in-tiruchi-thanjavur-districts/article37781893.ece
01 December 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||DCP posts redesignated in Tiruchi Police Commissionerate||The two Deputy Commissioners of Police serving in Tiruchi City have been allocated with Law & Order, Crime and Traffic related works consequent to the redesignation of their posts. This follows a State government order and formal proceedings issued by the Director General of Police. The Tiruchi City Police Commissionerate headed by the Commissioner of Police had two Deputy Commissioners of Police - one for Law and Order and another for Crime and Traffic all these years. Consequent to the State government 's order for redesignating their posts and proceedings issued by the DGP recently, the Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order) has been re-designated as Deputy Commissioner of Police (North). The Deputy Commissioner of Police (Crime and Traffic) has been redesignated as Deputy Commissioner of Police (South). Both officers have now been allocated with Law & Order, Crime and Traffic related works in their respective jurisdiction, said police sources. The Deputy Commissioner of Police (South) will have under his jurisdiction Cantonment Law and Order and Crime police stations, Sessions Court Law and Order and Crime police stations; E. Pudur Law and Order and Crime police stations, Ariyamangalam Law and Order and Crime stations; K.K. Nagar Law and Order and Crime stations; Airport Law and Order and Crime police stations besides Prohibition and Enforcement Wing, Traffic Investigation - South, Cyber Crime Cell, Control Room, Highway Patrol, All Women Police Stations at Cantonment and Golden Rock. Under the redesignation, the Deputy Commissioner of Police (North) will have under his jurisdiction Srirangam Law and Order and Crime stations; Fort Law and Order and Crime stations; Gandhi Market Law and Order and Crime stations; Palakarai Law and Order and Crime stations; Woraiyur Law and Order and Crime stations; Thillai Nagar Law and Order and Crime stations; Government Hospital Law and Order and Crime stations.  The DC North will also have Traffic Investigation - North, Fort Traffic, Woraiyur Traffic and Palakkarai Traffic besides City Crime Branch, Anti - Child Trafficking Unit, Anti - Vice Squad, City Crime Records Bureau and Detective Dog Squad under his control.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dcp-posts-redesignated-in-tiruchi-police-commissionerate/article37781889.ece
01 December 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||70 fresh cases, one death in central districts||The central districts on Tuesday recorded 70 fresh cases and one death. According to the medical bulletin issued by the Department of Health and Family Welfare, Tiruchi district topped the list with 21 patients testing positive followed by 15 in Karur and 14 in Thanjavur. All other districts recorded fresh cases in single digit. While Nagapattinam registered eight new cases, the case count in Tiruvarur was seven. While Pudukottai recorded two cases, Ariyalur, Mayiladuthurai and Perambalur registered one case each. One patient in Tiruchi, who was tested positive for the virus, succumbed to it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/70-fresh-cases-one-death-in-central-districts/article37781900.ece
01 December 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||DVAC conducts search at Spl Deputy Collector’s house, seizes documents||Officials of the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti Corruption (DVAC) conducted day-long search at the residence of Special Deputy Collector Bhavani on Nelson Road at Tiruvanaikoil here on Tuesday after booking a case under the Prevention of Corruption Act against her. The investigating agency sources here said they received information that Ms. Bhavani had accumulated assets disproportionate to known sources of income and booked a case against her on Monday under Sections 13 (2) read with 13 (1) (e) of the Prevention of Corruption Act and Section 109 of the IPC. Ms. Bhavani currently works as a Special Deputy Collector, Revenue Court, at Mannargudi in Tiruvarur district. The searches were headed by DVAC, Tiruchi unit Deputy Superintendent of Police Manikandan. Split into three teams, the DVAC personnel launched the search at the crack of dawn at the residence of Ms. Bhavani, who was present at that time. The searches were also simultaneously carried out at a petrol bunk in Valadi near Lalgudi, which was alleged to be in her son’s name and a private school at Manachanallur near here in which she was alleged to be a partner, the sources further said. A DVAC press release said the allegation of possession of assets disproportionate to her known sources of income during the period from 2014 to 2021 to the tune of Rs. 5.04 crore, which worked out to 306%, was taken up for investigation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dvac-conducts-search-at-spl-deputy-collectors-house-seizes-documents/article37781901.ece
01 December 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Registrations invited for participation in Indian Engineering Congress||The Institutions of Engineers (India) - Tiruchi Local Centre, has invited registrations from engineering community for participation in Indian Engineering Congress (IEC), the Flagship Programme of IEI, at Vigyan Bhavan, New Delhi, from December 26 to 28 to gain contemporary exposure to scientific and technological advancements. Local centres of IEI have been entrusted with the task of creating awareness of the theme of the Congress, ‘Engineers for Viable Technology and $5 Trillion Economy’ among corporate and non-corporate members, engineering community and engineering students. The link for registration is 36iec.org/registration-form.html. Further information will be provided through mail: 36thiec@gmail.com or phone: 91-9783694136 / +91-9810718565, a press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/registrations-invited-for-participation-in-indian-engineering-congress/article37781904.ece
01 December 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||AUT demands settlement of unpaid salaries for guest lecturers||Espousing the cause of over 600 guest lecturers and 92 non-teaching staff of the 10 newly converted government arts and science colleges that were earlier constituent units of Bharathidasan Units, who have been denied their salaries, the Association of University Teachers (AUT) has demanded immediate settlement of unpaid dues for October and November. The guest lecturers and the non-teaching staff have to be paid salaries on the basis of revised monthly pay of Rs. 20,000, and subsequently in accordance with the UGC's directive based on the Seventh Pay Commission, along with arrears, K. Raja, Zonal unit Secretary of AUT, said. It was regrettable that the State Government had not paid the teachers their salaries and that some of them died due to their inability to afford medical treatment for their illnesses. The latest instance was that of a guest lecturer in the Government Arts and Science College, Orathanad, he said, emphasising on compensation for the suffering families. To draw the goverment's attention, petitions would be mailed electronically to the Chief Minister’s cell by the guest lecturers on Wednesday (December 1). On December 3, the guest lecturers and the non-teaching staff would send post cards conveying their plight to the Governor and Chancellor R.N.Ravi, in the run-up to his participation in the Convocation of Bharathidasan University on December 9. Protest plan In the third phase, a demonstration by guest lecturers highlighting the demands would be conducted in Tiruchi on December 5, Mr. Raja said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aut-demands-settlement-of-unpaid-salaries-for-guest-lecturers/article37781905.ece
01 December 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||PG certificate programme in supply chain management ends for first batch||The First Batch of 74 students, all working professionals enrolled in the Post-Graduate Certificate Programme in Supply Chain Management (PGCSCM), graduated from Indian Institute of Management - Tiruchi in a virtual ceremony The one-year programme, held on Saturdays, was designed to enhance the capabilities of the supply chain for working professionals to achieve performance excellence. Simulation games, guest lectures and industry project presentations were conducted virtually, said Professor and Programme director M.S. Gajanand. He distributed the graduation certificates in a virtual ceremony. Professor and Chairperson of Executive Education and Consulting Prashant Gupta said an offline meeting would be conducted for the students on campus once the pandemic subsided. Addressing the students, Head of Academic Relations and Learner Success - TIMES TSW, Nagendra V. Chowdary spoke of the contribution of supply chain management in the pandemic situation. Director of IIM-Tiruchi Pawan Kumar Singh elaborated on the importance of supply chain management, citing examples from Ramayana and Mahabharata . Krishnadas G secured the first rank. Debasmita Chakraborty and Chiranth E were ranked second and third, Professor and Programme director S. Sivakumar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pg-certificate-programme-in-supply-chain-management-ends-for-first-batch/article37781894.ece
01 December 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Tamirabharani continues to be in spate||The Tamirabharani continues to be in spate as the Western Ghats experienced heavy downpour on Monday night. The overnight widespread rainfall in the district, especially along the Western Ghats, ensured huge influx of water into the Papanasam Dam on Monday night. After discharging 15,000 cusecs of water from Papanasam, Servalar and Gadana Dams on Monday night following heavy rainfall in the catchment areas of these dams, quantum of water being released from these dams was reduced on Tuesday after rain relented. However, the heavy discharge of water from the reservoirs and the water entered the Tamirabharani from wild streams swelled the perennial river a lot. As the low-level bridge at Karuppanthurai connecting Melapalayam and Tirunelveli Town was submerged by the swollen Tamirabharani, vehicular traffic via this busy stretch was hit. Since Manimuthar Dam has only 87% water (4,804 mcft against the maximum capacity of 5,511 mcft) and the influx of water stood only at 3,683 cusecs, no water was discharged from this reservoir. Collector V. Vishnu, who declared holiday for the schools on Tuesday, alerted the people living close to the watercourse not to enter the river for taking bath. He stationed the special teams near the low-lying areas to monitor the situation and evacuate the people from vulnerable places to the nearby relief shelters. A 100-year-old banyan tree at Kodesswaran Nagar got uprooted by the incessant drizzle on Tuesday to hit vehicular traffic on the Tirunelveli – Pettai Road. The Corporation, Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation and Fire and Rescue Services personnel removed the tree after three hours. No one was injured. Rainfall in the district (in mm): Papanasam Dam – 91, Manimuthar Dam – 84, Ambasamudram – 83, Servalar Dam – 71, Cheranmahadevi – 58, Nanguneri and Kalakkad – 53, Kodumudiyar Dam – 50, Moolaikkaraipatti – 41, Palayamkottai – 33, Nambiyar Dam and Radhapuram – 30 and Tirunelveli -23. Tenkasi Tenkasi district experienced widespread rainfall on Monday evening and in the night. All reservoirs are about to reach their maximum storage level. Since significant discharge of water from these dams in Chittar, all the systemized tanks under this irrigation tanks are getting decent inflow of water even as most of these water bodies are already overflowing. Rainfall in the district (in mm): Aayikudi – 76, Gundar Dam – 67, Tenkasi – 56, Adavinainar and Gadana Dams – 45, Shencottai -44, Sivagiri – 40, Karuppanadhi Dam – 35, Sankarankovil – 26 and Ramanadhi Dam – 15. Thoothukudi Though Thoothukudi experienced intermittent rain, the stagnant water could not be immediately pumped out during the first 10 days. However, the heavy downpour that lashed district on November 17 and 25 exposed the corporation’s poor preparedness for facing the monsoon woes. “If all the drainage channels traversing Thoothukudi and the Buckle Channel had been desilted thoroughly before the onset of monsoon, the water stagnation issue could have been effectively addressed. The situation got worsened as the sand accumulated beyond the bridge being used by the fishermen and traders in Terespuram area was not properly dredged. When the downpour drenched the town on November 17 and 25, the clogged Buckle Channel at its tail-end made the situation worse. Now, every resident of Thoothukudi is paying the hefty price for the corporation’s failure,” said a senior revenue official. After a brief lull, widespread rain lashed the district on Monday night to worsen the situation further in Muthammal Colony, Ram Nagar, Rahmath Nagar, Athi Parasakthi Nagar, Dhanasekaran Nagar, Bryant Nagar, Chidambara Nagar, Rajiv Nagar and Kathirvel Nagar. Since hip-deep water has stagnated around the houses in Ram Nagar, Rahmath Nagar and Athi Parasakthi Nagar, the residents have started moving to their relatives’ houses. “Since no step has been taken to drain the stagnant water, people are moving out,” said K. Ahmed Ali of Rahmath Nagar. Agitated over the water stagnation woes, residents of Levingipuram staged a road roko on Thoothukudi – Tiruchendur Highway for a while on Tuesday. As the district administration is battling the water stagnation issues across the district, especially in Thoothukudi, 50 one horse power motors and 10 heavy duty pumps have been procured from Coimbatore to accelerate the operation. Collector K. Senthil Raj said the heavy duty pumps would be used to pump out water from the badly affected areas where natural gradient would drain the pumped out water into the nearby drainage channels carrying the water to Buckle Channel, the mega sewage channel draining sewage into the sea near Terespuram. The plug and play 1 HP electric pumps attached with hose pipes will be given to public by corporation on temporary basis. “These motors with hose pipes can be plugged by the residents to pump the water out of their houses. If water is stagnating within their house or within their compound wall, public can contact corporation office, get this pumps, plug it inside their house, pump water out and return the pump to the corporation once the operation is over,” said Dr. Senthil Raj. Rainfall in the district (in mm): Kaayalpattinam – 90, Kayathar – 59, Vaipaar – 50, Tiruchendur – 48, Saattankulam – 46, Vilaathikulam and Ottapidaaram – 36, Srivaikundam – 31, Kaadalkudi – 30, Kadambur – 29, Soorankudi – 26, Thoothukudi – 23, Kulasekarapattinam – 21, Kovilpatti – 19, Vedanaththam and Keezha Arasadi – 18, Ettaiyapuram – 17, Maniyaachi – 6.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tamirabharani-continues-to-be-in-spate/article37782163.ece
01 December 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||CTCRI develops micronutrients for Chinese potato in southern districts||The Thiruvananthapuram-based Central Tuber Crops Research Institute that introduced high-yielding Chinese potato and elephant foot yam to the farmers of Tirunelveli and Tenkasi districts in February, has developed tailor-made fertilizer and micronutrient formulations for Chinese potato, a tasty variety in the southern districts. The CTCRI, which has so far released 68 varieties and other technologies of tuber crops to enhance productivity and profitability in major tuber crops being cultivated across the country, introduced high-yielding ‘Sree Dhara’ Chinese potato and Sree Padma and Gajendra varieties of elephant foot yam to the farmers of Tirunelveli and Tenkasi districts in last February. While the farmers can get yield up to 25 tonnes of Chinese potato a hectare, the yield of Sree Padma and Gajendra will be 40 tonnes a hectare. Cultivation of Chinese potato is concentrated in Tirunelveli and Tenkasi districts and being a photosensitive crop, it is planted during October - November and harvested during January-March. These varieties fetch remunerative price in the market because of its aroma, flavour and desirable shape of the tubers. These have got good ‘keeping quality’ coupled with pest and disease resistance. Apart from distributing seeds, a team of scientists R. Muthuraj, Principal Scientist, and his colleagues T. Krishnakumar, D. Jaganathan and P. Prakash, handled technical and interactive sessions on tuber crops for the farmers. Planting materials for establishing seed villages and value-added products of tuber crops were distributed to the selected farmers and farm women. Demonstrations on mini-set technique, nursery preparation and fertilizer application were also then organized. Now, the fertilizers and the micronutrients synthesized for these tuber crops were distributed to the farmers on Monday. Principal Scientist and Head, Crop Production Division, CTCRI. G. Byju and Dr. Muthuraj and the technicians visited Kuthapaanjan village, one of the beneficiary hamlets with the new products for on-farm demonstration. Dr. Muthuraj, who has been popularizing ‘Sree Dhara’ Chinese potato, explained the mode of application and other practices to be followed. “Farmers do not follow scientific nutrient recommendations which seriously affect soil health. Hence, they were trained in applying our fertilizer and the micronutrients that play vital role in augmenting the yield”, said Dr. Byju. The new products are developed considering the nutritional needs of the crop as indigenous soil fertility status and hence will increase yield and quality of produce besides sustaining soil health, he added. CTCRI plans to demonstrate these products in many other adjacent villages also in near future, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tailor-made-micronutrients-for-chinese-potato-developed/article37782159.ece
01 December 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Safai Karamcharis chairman to visit Tiruppur today||Chairman of the National Commission for Safai Karamcharis M. Venkatesan will visit Tiruppur on December 1 (Wednesday). Sources said that he would inspect the private dyeing unit at Veerapandi where three persons died of asphyxiation inside an effluent tank and also visit the residences of the deceased. On Thursday, he will chair a review meeting at the Collectorate in the presence of Collector S. Vineeth and other officials. Vadivel (32), a daily wage labourer who was engaged illegally to clean the effluent tank of the dyeing unit at Veerapandi within Tiruppur City Police limits, died after inhaling noxious fumes on November 14. Two of the unit’s employees namely manager Dinesh Pandian (28) and fitter Rajendran (55), who entered the tank to rescue Vadivel, also died. The Veerapandi police arrested the unit’s owner Dhanalakshmi (48).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/safai-karamcharis-chairman-to-visit-tiruppur-today/article37781830.ece
01 December 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Job fair held||A total of 3,378 candidates participated in the job fair organised by the District Employment Office at a private college in Dharapuram on Tuesday. A release said that 793 persons received appointment orders at the job fair and 121 private firms took part in the fair. Minister for Adi Dravidar Welfare N. Kayalvizhi Selvaraj issued the orders to the candidates in the presence of District Collector S. Vineeth during the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/job-fair-held/article37781825.ece
01 December 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||‘Regularise services of contract health inspectors’||Health Department employees staged a demonstration here on Tuesday demanding job regularisation for contract health inspectors, who were recruited during the first wave of the COVID-19 pandemic. The demonstration saw the participation of members of the Public Health Department Officials’ Association, Tamil Nadu Health Inspectors Welfare Association and Village Health Nurses Association. R. Baskaran, district president of Public Health Department Officials Association, said the State government recruited 1,646 health inspectors, including 83 in Tiruppur district, as outsourced employees in April 2020. The DMK government converted these health inspectors as contract employees in June this year. However, the State government announced recently that the Health Department would recruit new health inspectors on the basis of examinations and would not provide permanent employment to the contract health inspectors, he said. “The health inspectors, who worked during the pandemic expecting that their jobs would be made permanent, are disappointed with this decision,” Mr. Baskaran said. Further agitations will be decided based on whether the State government would provide permanent employment to the contract employees, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/regularise-services-of-contract-health-inspectors/article37781829.ece
01 December 2021||Udhagamandalam,TAMIL NADU||Man caught on camera attacking gaur in Nilgiris||The Forest Department is on the lookout for a man who attacked an injured gaur with a stick near the Ketti Engineering College in Ketti. A video of the attack, which shows the man walking up to the animal and beginning to beat it with a stick unprovoked, went viral on social media and mobile messaging applications on Tuesday. The distressed animal, which is believed to have been already injured, is seen doing a mock-charge at the man, who is yet to be identified, before retreating. The person, who videotaped the incident, could be heard calling on the man to stop hurting the animal, and even telling him that it was hurt. However, the man continues to chase the animal and even threatens the persons filming the incident. When contacted, Department officials said they would investigate the incident and take action against the individual.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-caught-on-camera-attacking-gaur-in-nilgiris/article37781930.ece
01 December 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Fallen trees disrupt traffic at five places in the Nilgiris||Heavy rain and wind continued to hit most parts of the Nilgiris on Tuesday, with trees getting uprooted and blocking roads in five different areas. Rainfall level According to the officials, an average of 11.81 mm rain was recorded between Monday and Tuesday morning across the district, with Udhagamandalam, Kundah, Avalanche, Emerald, Kinnakorai, Coonoor and Kotagiri witnessing heavy rain. Between Monday night and Tuesday morning, trees got uprooted and blocked the Udhagamandalam to Kaikatty Road, which connects Udhagamandalam to Manjoor and Kundah. Tree falls were also reported along the Doddabetta to Kattabettu Road and the road to Iduhatty. Traffic was blocked for a few hours, before workers from the Highways Department managed to clear them away and traffic resumed along the roads. A holiday was announced for schools across the district due to rain and wind. However, colleges were allowed to function. The Nilgiri Mountain Railway services continued to ply between Udhagamandalam and Coonoor. Officials from the Salem division of the Southern Railway said that services from Mettupalayam were suspended a few weeks ago due to continuous landslips and tree falls, and added that the services would be suspended from Mettupalayam to Coonoor till further notice. State Forest Minister K. Ramachandran visited some of the areas worst affected by the rain on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fallen-trees-disrupt-traffic-at-five-places-in-the-nilgiris/article37781837.ece
01 December 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Man caught on camera attacking gaur in Nilgiris||Video of a man attacking an injured gaur with a stick near the Ketti Engineering College at Ketti went viral on social media and mobile messaging applicatons on Tuesday. On Tuesday evening, Forest Department officials confirmed that they had identified the man as S. Rajendran from Ketti village. They said that Rajendran was an alcoholic and was mentally unwell. He was picked up by the officials for further investigation. The video shows the man walking up to the animal and beginning to beat it with a stick unprovoked. The distressed animal, which is already believed to have been injured, is seen doing a mock-charge at the man before retreating. The person, who videotaped the incident, could be heard calling on the man to stop hurting the animal, and even telling him that it was hurt. However, the man continues to chase the animal and even threatens the persons filming the incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-caught-on-camera-attacking-indian-gaur/article37781810.ece
01 December 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Bike rally flagged off from MRC||The Madras Regimental Centre (MRC) leg of the bike rally to commemorate the 263rd Raising Day of the Madras Regiment was flagged off by Brigadier Ajith Singh (retired), from MRC in Wellington on Tuesday. Bikers from the battalions of the Madras Regiment from all across the country will join the rally from Kolkata, Jamnagar, Chennai and Secundarabad and will reach Thiruvananthapuram on December 4 – the 263rd Raising Day of the oldest regiment of the Indian Army, a press release from MRC said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bike-rally-flagged-off-from-mrc/article37781822.ece
01 December 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Vellore district reports 15 fresh infections||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 50,194 with 15 new cases reported on Tuesday. While 48,902 people have been discharged, the active cases in the district stand at 151. The district’s toll is 1,141. In Ranipet district, four cases were reported positive and the tally stood at 43,558. In Tirupattur district, one case was reported on Tuesday and the total number of positive cases stood at 29,393. In Tiruvannamalai district, the number of new cases stood at five , taking the total number of cases to 55,187. Out of these, 54,462 have been discharged and the number of active cases stands at 55.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vellore-district-reports-15-fresh-infections/article37782135.ece
01 December 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||120 lost-and-found mobile phones returned to owners||The police handed over 120 lost-and-found mobile phones to the owners here on Tuesday. Superintendent of Police M. Manohar distributed the phones worth Rs. 21 lakh that were recovered by the Virudhunagar district cyber crime police to the owners. The district police had issued community service register receipts for 90 missing mobile phones and also acted on 30 petitions that were submitted to the SP. The cyber crime police keep monitoring the missing mobile phone handsets through their IMEI number at periodical intervals. Whenever the missing phones are activated, either by those who find them on the road or bought second-hand mobile phones from shops without proper verification, the cyber crime police alert the user that the phones they are using are crime property. The users either hand them over to the police or send them through courier from other districts and other States. Inspector of Police (Cyber Crime) P.S. Uma Maheswari and Sub-Inspector of Police A. Haroon were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/120-lost-and-found-mobile-phones-returned-to-owners/article37781923.ece
01 December 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||‘Desilt channels, storm water drainage’||Northeast monsoon Monitoring Officer for Virudhunagar district C. Kamaraj has instructed the Public Works Department and local bodies officials to desilt channels and storm water drainage on a war-footing to prevent water logging. After reviewing the precautionary measures being taken in view of the monsoon, Mr. Kamaraj said that the district has recorded 462 mm of rainfall till date as against 419 mm of normal rainfall expected during the northeast monsoon in October, November and December. “The rain has been sporadic and not with high intensity except on Monday,” he said. The district had recorded an average of 43.05 mm of rainfall in the last 24 hours till Tuesday morning. Except for waterlogging in some areas and partial damage of over 100 huts, not much damage had been reported in the district, he added. The district administration has been asked to immediately distribute relief materials to those who had lost their huts. He has instructed the officials for daily assessment and reporting of damages caused to agricultural and horticulture crops. Mr. Kamaraj, who is Director, Department of Backward Classes Welfare, found julia flora grown on one side of the Irukkangudi dam and asked the PWD officials to immediately remove the wild growth. When an official pointed out about an encroachment in the waterway obstructing free flow of rain water, Collector J. Meghanath Reddy asked them to evict the encroachment. District Revenue Officer, R. Mangalaramasubramanian, Sub-Collector, Sivakasi, M. Birathiviraj, were among those who took part in the meeting. Rainfall Kovilankulam recorded 72.4 mm of rainfall followed by Sivakasi 65, Watrap 59, Virudhunagar 53, Srivilliputtur 49, Tiruchuli 39, Sattur 38, Aruppukottai and Rajapalayam 32 mm each, Pilavakkal 31, Vembakottai 25.4, Kariyapatti 18.8.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/desilt-channels-storm-water-drainage/article37781929.ece
01 December 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Second dose made mandatory for workers of industrial units, commercial establishments||The district administration has made it mandatory for all industrial units and commercial establishments to ensure that their employees have taken the second dose of COVID vaccine. In a statement, Collector J. Meghanath Reddy said that so far 77% of the people had taken the first dose of the vaccine during the mega camps. However, in order to contain further spread of COVID, the administration has asked all the fireworks and matches units, spinning mills, pulses mills, printing units and commercial establishments to keep the certificates of second dose for all their employees to show them to officials coming for inspections. The administration has given them one week to ensure that the employees have got their second dose. Stringent action will be taken against the industrials units and commercial establishments, including closure of the units, under the Disaster Management Act if any of the employees were found to be flouting the instruction. The Collector also said that people should use masks, wash their hands and maintain social distancing whenever they visit theatres, hotels and lodges. He appealed to the people to volunteer for vaccination in the wake of global spreading of Omicron infection. People should avoid crowding at marriage functions, funerals, temple festivals, feasts and markets, the Collector said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/second-dose-made-mandatory-for-workers-of-industrial-units-commercial-establishments/article37781927.ece
01 December 2021||December 01 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK expels Anwhar Raajhaa||Among the reasons cited in the release was the former MP expressing views “contrary to the decision” of the leadership. Mr. Raajhaa, a senior leader, was known as a critic of the BJP, a major ally of the AIADMK. In 2018, he openly voiced reservations over the triple talaq legislation, and was responsible for his party’s decision to stage a walk out at the time of the Lok Sabha adopting the Bill. Of late, he has been publicly pushing for the readmission of V.K.Sasikala, former interim general secretary of the party. In late October, he came out in support of Mr. Panneerselvam, who had called for a discussion on the issue. In an interview to The Hindu on Sunday, he had said that Ms. Sasikala was no longer a factor of liability. He was also in controversy recently after he allegedly spoke in a “derogatory manner” against Mr. Palaniswami. When the matter came up at a meeting of senior office-bearers and secretaries of district units last week, and a few participants strongly criticised him, he apologised to the AIADMK co-coordinator. During the 2019 Lok Sabha and 2021 Assembly elections, Mr. Raajhaa was not given a party ticket to contest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-expels-anwhar-raajhaa/article37781784.ece
01 December 2021||December 01 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||01-12-2021-city-cinema||MUSIC DANCE DRAMA AAA / BHARAT KALACHAR / TOM MEDIAAS - MARGAZHI NATYA MAHOTSAV 2021 TODAY AT SRI YGP AUDITORIUM, NO.17, THIRUMALAI ROAD, T. NAGAR, CHENNAI - 600 017. 5.30 PM (All are Welcome) RAJYALAKSHMI BASKARAN SRILEKHA KALLURI GURU : PROF.SIKKIL VASANTHAKUMARI (DIRECTOR, BALANATYAMANJARI TRUST) 7.15 PM (All are Welcome) Group presentation by students of Maathrika. Guru. Smt. M.Lakshmi Priya Raja. Supported by : SRIRAM CAPITAL Ltd , INDUSIND BANK, L&T, PTA PSBB School K.K.Nagar. ENTRY ONLY THIRUMALAI RD. PH: 28343045 / 9941907993. Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan, East Mada Street, Mylapore Chennai-600 004. Bhavan's Cultural Festival 2021, Live Programme : 26.11.2021 to 15.12.2021 in association with South Zone Cultural Centre ( Ministry of Culture, Government of India ) at Bhavan's Main Auditorium, East Mada Street, Mylapore Chennai -600 004. Today 1st Dec :5.00 pm: Smt.Vasudha Ravi (Vocal), Sri R.Raghul(Violin), Sri Delhi S.Sairam (Mridangam), Papanasam Sri S.Sethuraman(Kanjira)and 6.30 pm: Sri Ramakrishnanmurthy (Vocal), Vidhushi Charumathy Raghuraman(Violin), Vidwan J.Vaidhyanathan (Mridangam), Vidwan G.Chandrashekara Sharma (Ghatam). Tomorrow 2nd Dec: 5.00 pm:Dr.Radha Bhaskar (vocal) and 6.30pm: Sri Sikkil Gurucharan (Vocal).Programme supported by : Apollo Pharmacies Ltd., Ramco Cements Ltd., Ramco Industries, Rajalakshmi Institutions, MGM Healthcare, Kauvery Hospitals, GRT Jewellers, Co-Optex, Nalli Silks, Aban Scientific, Larsen & Toubro, State Bank of India, AVA Cholayil, Dhanvantari Nano Aushadi, Sabari Foundations and Construction, Suryaans Paper, Star Health and Allied Insurance, SMK Fomra Institute of Technology, Indian Oil Corporation, NAC Jewellers,Sri Krishna Sweets. Watch Live(Courtesy - Bhavan's Kolkata Kendra).www.bhavanschennai.orgCovid-19 S.O.P to be followed. All are Welcome. Kartik Fine Arts 24997788 / 9840928049 Today 6.45pm at Narada Gana Sabha Main Hall "Nrithya Aradhana" Group Performance by Anitha Guha's Bharathanjali. Covid 19 SOPs to be followed. Kartik Fine Arts 24997788 / 9840928049 Our 47th year Art Festival 2021 powered by kalakendra.com titled 'Musically Margazhi' is scheduled from 1.12.2021 to 12.12.2021 on digital platform www.kalakendra.com . Links for members have been sent to their registered email ids. Programmes will be available for viewing till 31.12.21. For other details please visit www.kalakendra.com - 'MUSICALLY MARGAZHI'. Namasankeerthana Vizha - 2021 – 22 INTEGRATED ACADEMY FOR PERFORMING ARTS, Sri Krishna Gana Sabha and Bhagavatha Seva Trust presents Namasankeerthana Vizha 2021 - 22 at Dr Nalli Gana Vihar, Sri Krishna Gana Sabha, T Nagar from 31.12.2021 to 09.01.2022. Friday, 6.00 pm Inauguration followed by Namasankeerthanam by Mumbai Sundaraman Bhagavathar, 01st Saturday, 10.30 am Sri Bhaktha Smarana Bhajan Mandali, Chennai, 12.00 Noon Padma Seshadri Bala Bhavan Sr. Secondary School, KK Nagar - Chennai, 02.30 pm Vishwa Vidyalaya Matriculation School, Vandalur, 04.00 PM Sastra Deemed University 6.00 pm Shengottai Hari Hara Subramanian Bhagava thar, 02nd Sunday , 8.00 am Mohanur Srikanth Koundinyan Bhagavathar & Gnaneshwar Ramakrishnan Bhagavathar - Seetha Kalyanam, 4.00 pm A V K Rajasimmhan / O S Sundar / O S Mukundan - Vasantha Kelikai & Pavalimpu, 03rd Monday, 4.00 pm, Thepperumanallur Nara simmhan Bhagavathar & Ravi Swaminathan Bhagavathar, 6.00 pm Chennai A Srikanth Bhagavathar, 4th Tuesday, 4.00 pm Ayakkudi Kumar Bhagavathar, 6.00 pm Villupuram Jayatheerthan Bhagavathar, 5th Wednesday, 4.00 pm Chennai Sriram Bhagavathar , 6.00 pm Karthik Gnaneshwar Bhagavathar, 6th Thursday, 4.00 pm Vishnampettai Sriram Bhagavathar, 6.00 pm Kadayanallur Thukkaram Ganapathy Maharaj, 7th Friday, 09.30 am Sattanathan Bhagavathar, 4.00 pm Dr. Ganesh Bhagavathar, 6.00 pm Kadayanallur Rajagopala Bhagavathar - Abhanga Divyanamam, 8th Saturday, 10.00 am Cotah Sisters, 11.30 am Sri Bala Sath Sangh, Chennai, 02.30 pm Vidhya Vani Sangeetha Vidhyalaya, Chennai 4.00 pm Smt. Gayathri Mahesh, 6.00 pm Erode Rajamani Bhagavathar, 09th Sunday 08.00 am Udaiyalur Dr. K Kalyanaraman Bhagavathar - Rukmani Kalyanam, 4.00 pm Bhagavatha Seva Trust Function , 6.00 pm Udaiyalur Dr. K Kalyanarama Bhagavathar - Anjaneya Uthsavam. Co Sponsored by CITY UNION BANK, INTEGRATED ENTERPRISES & SHRIRAM GROUP COMPANIES. Live Telecast of all programmes athttps://namasankeerthanavizha.comFor Details: Co-ordinator Udaiyalur Kalyanarama Bhagavathar (9444462526), V.Gopalakrishanan (9363155543) NARADA GANA SABHA (REGD) PHONE:24993201,24990850. Programme - December 2021 - Mini Hall - From 16th Daily 7.30 am - Thiruppavai by Dr. M.A.Venkatakrishnan. Main Hall - 25th Dec - 31st Dec - Daily - 7 am - Harinama Sankeerthanam by Bhagavatha Sammelana Samajam. Main Hall - 5th -"Bharathi - Pancha Bhutham" Introduction by Isaikkavi Ramanan. Dancers - Bhagyalakshmi Sivaramakrishnan, Christopher Gurusamy, Mahati Kannan, Sruthe Raammohan - Guru Saroja Vaidyanatha's Bharathi Endowment programme. 14th - Mini Hall -(Swami Haridhos Giri Hall) - 6.30 pm - Sukla Ekadasi - Sengalipuram Bramhasri Damodara Deekshitar - "Sri Guruvayurappan Mahimai" Smt Shradha Vijay Madhavan Endowment Programme. Pre Music festival concerts - 17th - 4.30 pm - G Ramanathan - Saxophone, 6.30 pm - Archana & Aarathi. 18th -4.30 pm - Sruthi Sagar - Flute. 6.30 pm - Subhashini Parthasarathy. 19th -4.25 pm - Shanthala Subrahmanyam - Flute, 6.30 pm - V.K.Manimaran. 20th - 4.30 pm - Girija Shankar, 6.30 pm - Dr R.S.Jayalakshmi - Veena. 21st - 4.30 pm - Shruthi Shankarkumar, 6.30 pm - C.R.Vaidyanathan. 22nd - 4.30 pm - Jayalakshmi Sekar - Veena, 6.30 pm - Sumitra Vasudev. 23rd - 4.30 pm - Anahitha Apoorva . 6.30 pm - Akshay Padmanabhan. All are welcome . NARADA GANA SABHA (REGD) PHONE:24993201,24990850 Isai Natya Nataka Vizha - Dec 24th - 31st - Special programmes - Admission by Season & Daily Tickets . Main Hall - 24th- Daily 6.30 pm - Shobana - Dance. 25th - Subhashri Thanikachalam presents QFR classic classical from Tamil films - film songs based on carnatic ragas. 26th - 10.30 am - Drama - Komal Swaminathan's "EN VEEDU EN KANAVAN EN KUZANTHAI" . Direction: Dharini Komal. 6.30 pm - Ranjani & Gayathri. 27th - Dhananjayan's "Bhakthi Sudha Rasa" - Dance, 28th -V.V.Subramaniam supported by V.V.S.Murari - Violin Duet. 29th - P.Unnikrishnan, 30th - Sid Sriram. 31st - Kunnakudi M Balamuralikrishna with Guru Karaikkudi R Mani. PUSHPAANJALAI CULTURAL TRUST Inauguration of Marghazi Natya Vizha 2021 at R K Swamy Auditorium(Sir Sivasami Kalalaya), Mylapore, Today at 5.30pm Bharathanatyam by Kum.Anushiya Hariharan(Dis.of Smt. Kanaka Krishna Prashanth) 7.00pm. Bharathanatym by Kum. D.Yogitha & Kum. S.Akshethaa (Dis. of Smt. Venkat) Rasika Ranjani Sabha (Regd.) Mylapore, Ch - 4 December - 2021 "Music in Perpetuity" from 04.12.2021 to 20.12.2021 & 26.12.2021 - 04.12.21- 04.30 pm Mangala Isai by Sembanar Koil S.R.G.S.Mohandass & Party - Inauguration at 05.30pm Prayer Smt. J.B. Keerthana Chief Guest Sri. M. Murali (Sri Krishan Sweets) & Guest of Honour Ms. A. Kanyakumari - 07.00 pm "HARIKESANALLUR MUTHIAH BHAGAVATAR" - Vocal by Sri. Madurai. T.N. Seshagopalan - 05.12.21 - 10.00am - "MAHA VAIDYANATHA SIVAN" (Lec Dem) by Dr Rajshri Ramakrishna - 06.12.21 - 10.00am - "PALLAVI SESHA IYER" (Lec Dem) by Smt. Gayatri Girish - 07.12.21 - 10.00am - "RAMANATHAPURAM SRINIVASA IYENGAR" (Lec Dem) by Sri. Navaneetha Krishnan - 08.12.21 - "T.N. RAJARATHNAM PILLAI" - 10.00am (Lec Dem) by Sri. Lalitha Ram - 04.15pm - Amrith Narayan - Vocal - 06.15pm Nagaswaram Desur Brothers Sri. S Shanmugasundharam, Sri. S Sethuraman - 09.12.21 - "MYSORE VASUDEVACHAR" 10.00am - (Lec Dem) by Smt. Prema Rangarajan - 04.15pm - Dr S Nithyasree - Veena - 06.15pm- "POOCHI SRINIVASA IYENGAR, WALAJAPET VENKATARAMANA BHAGA VATHAR & MYSORE SADASHIVA RAO - Sri. T.V Ramprasadh - Vocal - 10.12.21 -"PATNAM SUBRAMANYA IYER" 10.00am - (Lec Dem) by Smt. R.S. Jayalakshmi - 04.15 pm - Kolkata Padmavathi Saranathan - Vocal - 06.15pm - "PATNAM SUBRAMANYA IYER, MYSORE VASUDEVACHAR & HARIKESANALLUR MUTHIAH BHAGAVATHAR" - Smt. Mahathi - Vocal - 11.12.21 - "RAMANAD KRISHNAN" 10.00am - (Lec Dem) by Smt. Savita Narasimhan - 04.15pm - Madurai N Sivaganesh - Vocal - 06.15pm - Sri. Ramakrishnan Murthy - Vocal - 12.12.21 - 04.15pm Vivek Moozhikulam -Vocal - 06.15pm "M L VASANTHAKUMARI" Smt. Gayathri Venkataragahavan - Vocal - 13.12.21 - "D.K. PATTAMMAL" 10.00am - (Lec Dem) by Smt. Poorna Vaidhyanathan - 04.15pm - Santhosh Subramanian - Vocal - 06.15pm - Smt. Nisha Rajagopalan - Vocal - 14.12.21 - "MADURAI MANI IYER" 10.00am - (Lec Dem) by Sri. Vishnuram Prasad - 04.15pm - Smt. Uma Ranganathan - Vocal - 06.15pm - Sri. Suryaprakash - Vocal - 15.12.21 - "D.K. JAYARAMAN" 10.00am - (Lec Dem) by Dr. Sunder - 04.15pm - Smt. Ananya Ashok - Vocal - 06.15pm - Sri. Vijay Siva - Vocal - 16.12.21 - "THIRUVOTRIYUR TYAGAYYAR" 10.00am (Lec Dem) by Dr. Aravind Ranganathan - 16.12.21 TO 20.12.21 (5 days) - 06.15pm to 08.15pm "PURUSHA SUKTHAM" Discourse by Sri. Dushyanth Sridhar - 26.12.21 - 06.30pm - Kalaamithra presents their 25th successful (Silver Jubilee) show of their Stage Play - MAHAPERIYAVA. Directed by and featured as Mahaperiyava - Ramki - Our 04.15pm programmes are co-sponsored by AANMAJOTHI (Cultural wing of Saraswathi Vidyalaya Vadapalani, Chennai) . ALL RASIKAS ARE WELCOME - Ph. No: 86103 57987. Entry as per Govt. Covid SOP Guidelines. Our programs can be watched on https://www.rrsabha.org at later dates. Sri Krishna Sweets, Chennai `PAARENGUM BHARATHI’ (Virtual Programs) Jointly with YACD Trust Gopalapuram, along with social cultural organizations in that respective countries presenting PAARENGUM BHARATHI, marking 100th year remembrance of Mahakavi Bharathi & to spread the message of MAHAKAVI BHARATHIAR across the globe for the benefit of all. On Dec 5th, 10AM (IST) in association with Singapore Lisha Literary Club, cultural program by the children of Singapore – Vocal by Aditi Suresh & Laya Raja, Talk by G K Sri Harihar & Hasini Ganesh followed talk by Sri Isaikkavi Ramanan & Sri Kannan Seshadri. Chief Guests: Dr AKhila Srinivasan, Director, Shriram Life Insurance Co. Ltd & Sri R Dinakaran, Vice President Hindu Endowments Board, Singapore & Former Nominated Member of Parliament, Singapore. On Dec 11th, 8PM (IST) in association with Canada Tamil Congress, Canada, cultural program by the students of Canada, talk by Sri Sivakumar, Tamil Orator. Chief Guest: Sri K R Nagarajan, Founder – Chairman, RAMRAJ COTTON, Tamil Nadu, India. All programs are LIVE in the following youtube channel Chennai Sri Krishna Sweets. For more details contact: 9283147543, 9940092992 The Mylapore Fine Arts Club(Regd.) Phone 24997755 On 04.12.2021 Sat. 6.45 PM U A A Presents Y.Gee. Mahendra in CHARUKESI by Venkat 17.12.2021 to 10.01.2022 70th YEAR ART FESTIVAL - Live Programs MISCELLANEOUS Sri Krishna Sweets, Chennai ‘BHARATHAMENGUM BHARATHI’ Jointly with Bharatiya Vidhya Bhavan, Tamil Matrimony, YACD Trust Gopalapuram along with social cultural associations in that respective states, presents BHARATHAMENGUM BHARATHI, in 28 states and in 8 union territories to mark 100th year remembrance of Mahakavi Bharathi. On Dec 4th with Vanavil Panpaatu Maiyam, @ 10AM, Puducherry University, talk by Sri K Gnanasambandam. Chief Guest: Honorable Governor, Dr Tamilisai Soundararajan Avl. At 5PM, with Lucknow Tamil Sangam, talk by Adv. Sathish Kumar. Chief Guest: Sri V P Dhananjayan, Padmabhushan Awardee. Tribute to Bharathi song by Sri Rithvik Raja. On Dec 5th with Goa Tamil Sangam, 2PM talk by Dr Ulaganayaki Palani. Chief Guest: Hon’ble Justice Sri G R Swaminathan, Judge, Madras High Court. Tribute to Bharathi song by Dr O S Arun. On Dec 19th, 10AM, with Chandigarh Tamil Sangam talk by Smt Desa Mangayarkarasi. Chief Guest: Dr Padma Subramanyam, Padmabhushan Awardee. Tribute to Bharathi Song by Sri Sikkil Gurucharan. At 5PM with Sri Vetri Malai Murugan Devasthanams Board, Port Blair talk by Sri Nagai Mukundan. Chief Guest: Honorable Justice Sri Periya Karuppiah, Retd. Judge, Madras High Court. Tibute to Bharathi song by Dr R Ganesh. On Dec 23rd, 4PM with Tamil Cultural Association, Pune, talk by Sri Isakkavi Ramanan. Chief Guest: Sri T H Vikku Vinayagaram, Padmabhushan Awardee. Tribute to Bharathi Song by Cuddalore S J Janani. On Dec 24th, 5.30PM with Bharatiya Vidhya Bhavan, Bangalore, talk by Sri Marabin Mainthan Muthiah. Chief Guest: Swami Vimurtanandaji Maharaj, Adhyaksha, Sri Ramakrishna Math, Thanjavur. Tribute to Bharathi song by Dr Nihyasree Mahadevan. On Dec 25th, 10AM with Sri Balamurugan Devasthanam Trust, Ahmedabad, talk by Sri Nagai Mukundan. Chief Guest: Honorable Justice Sri N Anand Venkatesh, Judge, Madras High Court. Tribute to Bharathi song by Smt. Gayathri Girish. On Dec 26th, 5PM with South Indian Cultural Association, Indore talk by Smt. Bharathi Thirumagan & Sri Kalaimagan. Chief Guest: Vanavil Sri K Ravi. Tribute to Bharathi song by Chinmaya Sisters – Smt Uma & Smt Radhika. All programs are LIVE in the following youtube channel Chennai Sri Krishna Sweets. TamilMatrimony and Dinamalar.in. For more details contact: 9283147543, 9940092992. Sri Vidyatheertha Foundation (Regd) Ph: 97899 99160 104th Jayanthi Satsangh of Jagadguru Sri Abhinava Vidyatheertha Mahaswamigal. Seminar on 'Uniqueness of Indian Civilisation '. Swami Vidyashankara Saraswathy delivers Special Address - Live relay via our YouTube channel ' Shankara Vijayam ' from 2.00 PM.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/01-12-2021-city-cinema/article37781794.ece
01 December 2021||December 01 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore – Engagements||Sri Ramakrishna College of Arts and Science for Women: Poster making competition for World AIDS Day, 10 a.m.; Alumni motivational talk, 11 a.m.  KPR College of Arts Science and Research: Skill development programme, 9.30 a.m.  Sankara College of Science and Commerce: Christmas cake fruit mixing ceremony, 11.30 a.m.  Jansons Institute of Technology: Workshop on ‘Communication and Soft Skills’, 9 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-engagements/article37781831.ece
01 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Schools to file plaints against non-payers||The Associated Management of Primary and Secondary Schools in Karnataka has decided to file police complaints against parents who have not paid the school fees as mandated by the High Court of Karnataka. This was decided at a meeting on Monday after the State Government recently issued strict directions to Block Education Officers to issue transfer certificates to children wishing to move out of private schools if parents file an application. Many private school managements had refused to issue transfer certificates to parents as they had not paid the school fees and wanted the parents to clear their dues before they pulled them out of school. D. Shashi Kumar, General Secretary of the association, said they would file a cheating complaint against parents who were harassing school managements for availing benefits but not paying the fee. “They have to pay the fees that have been announced by the High Court,” he said. The High Court had said that for the 2020-21 academic year, parents have to pay 85% of the tuition fees of the previous academic year. The school management member of a private school in North Bengaluru said they had nine students whose parents had not paid the fees for the previous academic year. “While some of these parents have shifted their children to government schools, some others have shifted to private schools that charge the same fees as our school. This is gross injustice to managements like us,” he said. However, Mullahalli Suri, President of the Parents’ Association, said school managements should not “stoop down” and resort to filing police complaints. “They should look at the issue on humanitarian grounds as many parents were affected financially due to the COVID-19 pandemic,” he reasoned. Other decisions Another decision taken by the association on Monday was demanding that the procedures for providing fire safety certificates and structural safety certificates be simplified. These documents are prerequisite to obtaining the renewal of recognition certificates for existing schools from the previous academic year. “If the department does not make this process easy, then thousands of existing schools will fail to get their affiliation renewed and lakhs of students will be studying in unrecognised schools,” a school management member said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/schools-to-file-plaints-against-non-payers/article37781740.ece
01 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Omicron treatment facilities in State soon||Gearing up to handle a possible outbreak of Omicron, Karnataka Government is planning to set up dedicated facilities in hospitals with adequate infrastructure and required medicines. The State’s COVID-19 Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) that recommended a slew of measures in the wake of growing concern has said that a dedicated Omicron treatment facility should be established at the State-run Bowring and Lady Curzon Medical College and Research Institute. “Later, when necessary, a similar facility should be activated at the Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Chest Diseases,” stated the TAC report submitted to Health and Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar on Tuesday. “All symptomatic/suspected cases of COVID-19 from the airport should be admitted separately in these dedicated facilities,” the report stated. The TAC recommended that the State should reconstitute the clinical expert committee to advise the government regarding treatment protocols. Accordingly, Mr. Sudhakar announced that a new 10-member clinical expert committee led by Ravi K., head of the department of medicine in Bangalore Medical College and Research Institute would be set up. This committee was earlier headed by former V-C of Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences S. Sachidananda. “We are considering reintroducing the use of technology such as Quarantine App, telemedicine facilities to monitor patient care,” Mr. Sudhakar said.  Asserting that there was no need to press the panic button and close schools and colleges now, TAC recommended that classes should be conducted in hybrid mode as far as possible with strict COVID-19 appropriate behaviour protocol. “This recommendation should be revisited when Omicron is reported in the State,” the report said. Also, in view of recent clusters reported in boarding schools, medical, and paramedical colleges, TAC said the State should strictly and mandatorily follow COVID containment norms such as declaring such schools and colleges “containment zones” and take suitable public health measures there. TAC, which had earlier recommended that 10% of the daily tests conducted in the State should be on children, now said 5% of school children should be tested in a week. The reports should be sent to the Department of Public Instruction, the report said. Besides, the Health Department should take up fortnightly testing of students and teachers in colleges and high schools, staff of hotels and restaurants, shopkeepers of malls and shopping lanes, shopkeepers in markets, catering staff, and door delivery personnel and so on, the report said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dedicated-omicron-treatment-facilities-in-state-soon/article37781747.ece
01 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||SIT head accepts IO’s final report in CD scandal case||Senior IPS officer Soumendu Mukherjee on Tuesday informed the High Court of Karnataka that he had accepted the final investigation report prepared by the Investigation Officer (IO) in the CD scandal case allegedly involving the former Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi. Mr. Mukherjee, who is the head of the Special Investigation Team (SIT), was earlier directed by the court to examine the final investigation report and take appropriate decision as probe was completed and the report finalised when he was on medical leave for about three months. The court had said that the final probe report, prepared by the IO, should have been placed before Mr. Mukherjee as the SIT under his leadership was tasked to supervise the investigations conducted in various first information reports (FIRs) registered in connection with the scandal related to alleged sexual abuse of a woman. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Ritu Raj Awasthi and Justice Sachin Shankar Magadum, before whom Mr. Mukherjee submitted his report accepting the probe report of the IO, gave liberty to the SIT to file an application seeking permission of the High Court to submit the final investigation report before the competent court as per the law. The Bench passed the order after the counsel for the SIT orally sought permission from the Bench to submit the final report before the jurisdictional magistrate as the court had earlier had restrained SIT from submitting the report before the magistrate sans taking its permission.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sit-head-accepts-ios-final-report-in-cd-scandal-case/article37781757.ece
01 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Auto travel to cost more from today||Travelling by an autorickshaw will be more expensive from Wednesday . Passengers have to shell out Rs. 30 for the first 2 kms and Rs. 15 for every km thereon. Three weeks ago, the regional transport authority had revised the fare with effect from December 1. Night fare As per the revised fare, the night fare — between 10 p.m. and 5 a.m. — will be the new minimum fare plus half of that. The waiting fare after the first five minutes will be Rs. 5 per 15 minutes, and the luggage fare will be free up to 20 kg, and Rs. 5 per 20 kg over that. The maximum luggage weight is 50 kg. Auto drivers have time till February 2022 to re-calibrate their digital meters as per the revised fare. Till then, drivers have to display a chart of the revised fare and collect the applicable fare from the passengers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/auto-travel-to-cost-more-from-today/article37781736.ece
01 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Less traffic, better quality of life driving businesses to suburbs, say experts||Many industrial, business, and commercial activities located in traditional zones or the central business district of cities have migrated to suburban areas owing to availability of congestion-free transportation and better quality of life, among other factors, say experts. IAS officer Vishal R., former director, Karnataka Directorate of Municipal Administration, and currently Commissioner of Public Instruction, said several business activities located on M.G. Road in Bengaluru had moved to suburban areas, at a webinar on ‘Suburbanisation of India’ organised by the Institute for Social and Economic Change (ISEC), Bengaluru, on Tuesday. Dr. Vishal said suburbanisation had largely occurred in Bengaluru, city corporations, and district headquarters of Karnataka. Location of related service or manufacturing industries has contributed to suburbanisation, particularly in Bengaluru. “But will the central business districts reclaim their space in the future, is the question,” he said. Low tax, more land “Many international schools have been established in suburban areas owing to low taxes, availability of land, water resources, better management of waste, and ecosystem of gated communities. However, the growth and sustainability of suburban areas depend on water supply, particularly during the drought years, and functioning of urban local bodies and future planning,” Dr. Vishal said. Niranjan Hiranandani, co-founder and managing director, Hiranandani Group of Companies, and vice-chairman of the National Real Estate Development Council, said the poor quality of infrastructure was the major issue in suburban areas of Indian cities. Metro rail connectivity, and better civic amenities and quality housing would make the quality of life better in suburban areas, he argued. Arup Mitra, professor, Institute of Economic Growth, Delhi, said migration from rural to urban areas for jobs and access to facilities, which are available in cities, in suburban areas in particular, were major driving forces for growth of suburbanisation in India. However, he noted that investment in land and land scams through money-laundering by vested interests were being reported in peripheral areas of urban centres.  Bhaskar T. Nagendrappa, president, CREDAI, pointed to the disappearance of lakes owing to growth of suburban areas of Bengaluru, and demanded better civic amenities in 110 villages added to the BBMP about 15 years ago. Kala Seetharam Sridhar, professor, ISEC, made the initial remarks, and said at 31% urbanisation in India in 2011, and steady economic growth, there was substantial capitalisation occurring in land and property in cities, and steep disparities had developed in land values and housing prices between the central part of the city and that of the suburbs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/less-traffic-better-quality-of-life-driving-businesses-to-suburbs-say-experts/article37781753.ece
01 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Packets of marijuana recovered from prison||Central Crime Branch (CCB) officials raided the Central prison at Parappana Agrahara on Tuesday. They seized packets of marijuana and a dozen of pipes used to smoke the drug. On being tipped off that gangs and rowdies continue to operate from inside the prison, teams comprising two DCPs and 15 inspectors raided the prison during the early hours, and along with the prison staff searched the premises. CCB officials later filed a complaint with the jurisdictional Parappana Agrahara police about the seizure of drugs from the barracks of undertrials and convicts, and sought a detailed investigation. CCB officials said they had been tipped off that gangsters and rowdies are operating from inside. They are giving instructions and communicating regularly through mobile phones. But CCB officials did not find any mobile phone during the search.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/packets-of-marijuana-recovered-from-prison/article37781734.ece
01 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Waste plant impasse continues, as protesters refuse to back down||Communities living around the MSGP waste processing plant at Chigaranahalli continued with their stir on Tuesday, six days since they started the protest. The impasse between the protesting communities and the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) continues as the protestors demand complete closure of the plant. The protesting communities refused to withdraw their stir despite assurance from Minister for Small Scale Industries and Municipal Administration N. Nagaraju (MTB) of better plant management. According to senior civic officials, who were part of the delegation that met with the protesting communities, the Minister, who is also in-charge of Bengaluru (Rural) district, urged the communities to withdraw their stir. He also urged them to allow the plant to operate and not stop garbage vehicles from the city. When the communities said the protest would be withdrawn only when the Government announces complete closure of the plant, the Minister reportedly stated that this was not an option. The protestors pointed out that none of the protocols and regulations were being adhered to. They alleged that the civic body was sending more waste to the plant than was initially agreed upon. “Rules state that steps should be taken to avoid birds, dogs and fly menace by ensuring scientific disposal of waste, and monitoring of ambient air quality once a month. The BBMP is supposed to submit periodic reports on the quantum of waste received, processed and disposed. However, these are followed only in violation,” charged one of the protestors. K.V. Sathyaprakash, a resident of Moodalakalenahalli, said that only closure of the plant will ensure justice to the villages coming under four gram panchayats - Battarahalli, Sasalu, Sakkaregollahalli and Arodi - and their communities. Cleaning work The protesting communities, however, have allowed civic officials to take up cleaning at the plant and surrounding areas. “The leachate tank breached and flowed into the kunte and watershed. While the water will be completely pumped out from the kunte, the water in the watershed will be treated,” the official said. The MSGP plant at Chigaranahalli is among the few processing units functioning. Following protests by local communities, legal wrangles and other issues, processing plants at Lingadheeranahalli, Seegehalli and Subbarayanapalya have remained shut for months. This has put immense pressure on not just the landfill, but also the remaining processing plants, including MSGP, Chikkanagamangala, Doddabidarakallu, Kannahalli and Karnataka Compost Development Corporation (KCDC). Meanwhile, residents in a few parts of the city complained about garbage not being picked up by the BBMP. Meenakshi Prabhu, a resident of Chennammanakere Achhkattu, said that garbage from the area was not picked up for the second consecutive day. BBMP officials, however, maintained that waste was picked up as usual from across the city. “This could be due to some local issues. We are sending most of the garbage that was to be sent to MSGP to the landfill and some portion to the other processing plants,” an official added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/waste-plant-impasse-continues-as-protesters-refuse-to-back-down/article37781733.ece
01 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Nandi Hills to reopen for tourists||Nandi Hills, one of the most popular tourist destinations around Bengaluru, will be open for tourists from Wednesday after three months. The tourist attraction, which is around 60 kilometres from the city and located in Chickballapur district, was closed after a road leading to the hills collapsed in August due to heavy rains. Speaking to The Hindu , Chickballapur DC R. Latha said that the repair works have been completed and tourists will be allowed from Monday to Friday. However, those who book rooms in Nandi Hills can visit the place on weekends as well. She added that they would only allow limited tourists based on the parking availability. There is parking capacity for as many as 350 four wheelers and 1500 two wheelers. As the repair works for the roads were under way, the Mayura Pine Top Nandi Hills, a Karnataka State Tourism Development Corporation property, too had suspended their bookings. No tourists were allowed as it was risky for two wheelers to travel on the road. K. Sudhakar, Health and Family Welfare Minister, who is in charge of Chickballapur district, tweeted on Monday: “A 43-metre stretch of Nandi Hills road which was washed away in a landslip has been rebuilt. The work on the road has been completed in less than 3 months. #Nandihills.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nandi-hills-to-reopen-for-tourists/article37781738.ece
01 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HC disposes of pleas related to IMA scam||Taking note of filing of charge sheet by the Central Bureau of Investigation in the financial scam of I-Monetary Advisory (IMA) group of companies, the High Court of Karnataka on Tuesday disposed of the PIL petitions, which had sought probe and action against persons involved in the scam. Meanwhile, the High Court also observed that it was needless to state that the competent authority, appointed under the provisions of the Karnataka Protection of Interest of Depositors in Financial Establishment (KPIDFE) Act, 2004, would take further appropriate action as per the law in coordination with the investigation agency. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Ritu Rak Awasthi and Justice Sachin Shankar Magadum closed the proceedings on the petitions as it was informed to the Bench by the advocates representing some of the petitioners that Central Bureau of Investigation had filed charge sheets against accused persons and now the competent authority can proceed further as per provisions of the KPIDFE Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hc-disposes-of-pleas-related-to-ima-scam/article37781746.ece
01 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||15-day deadline to survey unused land at KGF for industrial township||The State Government has moved forward in its proposal to establish an industrial township at Kolar Gold Fields (KGF), with officials on Tuesday being asked to conduct a survey of 3,212 acres of unused land belonging to Bharath Gold Mines Ltd. (BGML) at the earliest. The Department of Survey and Land Records has been tasked with surveying of land and submitting a report at the earliest, sources in the Department of Industries and Commerce said. The decision was taken at a meeting convened by Industries Minister Murugesh Nirani where a deadline of 15 days was given for submission of the survey report, sources said. Industrial corridor Sources said while a survey had been conducted for 2,000 acres, remaining about 3,000 acres needed to be surveyed, following which the Government would await a decision to be taken by the Union Cabinet. The industrial township is being proposed at KGF owing to its proximity to Chennai–Bengaluru industrial corridor, and the State was expecting large industries to set up shop there, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/15-day-deadline-to-survey-unused-land-at-kgf-for-industrial-township/article37781758.ece
01 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Wine merchants appeal against closure order||Wine merchants across the State have slammed the decision of the Chief Electoral Officer for directing shuttig down of wine stores and bars for two days from December 8 in the light of the elections to 25 seats of the Legislative Council on December 10. In an order issued recently, establishments selling liquor were directed to shut operations from 4 p.m. on December 8 to the midnight of December 10. The Federation of Wine Merchants and Association, Karnataka, has shot off a letter to the Chief Electoral Officer requesting not to close down liquor outlets given that the electorate is small, unlike in general elections. “The total number of voters in the State in this election is 99,062 and all voters are educated voters representing different layers of people,” the federation argued. It further said that the number of polling booth in the State was only 6,072, and average number of votes cast in each booth is very meagre of 16.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/wine-merchants-appeal-against-closure-order/article37781760.ece
01 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘NEP can promote revolutionary changes’||The National Educational Policy (NEP) can play an important role in promoting revolutionary changes in the field of higher education in India, said the Chairman of AICTE, Anil Dattatreya Sahasrabuddhe, in his address in the seminar on “National Education Policy and its challenges and opportunities” organised by the Education Promotion Society of India. The new educational policy has taken shape in a way that with its combination of higher standards and expertise it can create numerous opportunities and recognition at the international level, a release quoted him as saying. Minister of Higher Education and IT/BT C.N. Ashwath Narayan, who inaugurated the function, said private educational institutions should put in efforts in bringing about social changes and not just always think about hiking the fees, the release added. M.R. Jayaram, Chancellor of Ramaiah Applied Sciences University; G. Vishwanathan, President/Chairman, Education Promotion Society of India; and Devender Kawday, Deputy Adviser, NAAC and others also addressed the gathering. Over 200 experts, vice chancellors of universities, and government officials attended the seminar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nep-can-promote-revolutionary-changes/article37781735.ece
01 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Reintroduce restrictions’||Recommending reintroduction of curbs on public congregations, TAC said a gathering of up to 500 persons can be allowed in events held outdoors and not more than 200 indoors. These restrictions should be strictly implemented in all social, religious, and political events. Marshals and police should be roped in for strict enforcement, the report stated. Besides, enhanced CCTV surveillance with public announcements on correct wearing of face masks should be made in malls, bus stands, and railway stations, the report pointed out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/reintroduce-restrictions/article37781744.ece
01 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||KPCC plans protest||The Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) has decided to hold a protest in the city opposing the Centre’s move to shift ISRO’s Indian Human Space Flight programme from Bengaluru to Gujarat. In his two-page letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi earlier, KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar had said that Kannadigas would feel betrayed by the shift. He termed the move “ill-conceived” and urged the Prime Minister to stop it. Speaking to reporters after inaugurating a photo exhibition on the former Prime Minister late Indira Gandhi on her 104th birth anniversary, organised by Indian Youth Congress, Mr. Shivakumar said the party workers and leaders would stage a protest in the city opposing the move.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kpcc-plans-protest/article37781754.ece
01 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Five held for robbing woman||The K.S. Layout police, on Tuesday, arrested a gang of five who allegedly robbed a home-alone woman in broad daylight on Friday. Venkatesh, 20, Sunil, 21, Manja, 26, Shivaraja, 28, and Jagadisha Reddy, 20, barged into the house of Chitra, threatened her at knife point, and robbed gold valuables and three mobile phones before fleeing the spot, the police said. The police identified the accused with the CCTV camera footage and arrested them. The police recovered gold valuables and the phones from the accused along with two knives, an autorickshaw and a scooter. The accused have been taken into custody to ascertain their criminal background.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/five-held-for-robbing-woman/article37781745.ece
01 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||291 new cases, eight deaths||Karnataka on Tuesday reported 291 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total to 29,96,148. Bengaluru Urban reported 185 cases and six deaths. With eight deaths, the toll rose to 38,211. As many as 745 persons were discharged on Tuesday. The State now has 6,416 active patients. While the positivity rate for the day touched 0.47%, Case Fatality Rate touched 2.74%. As many as 61,804 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/291-new-cases-eight-deaths/article37781749.ece
01 December 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||BJP factions clash at meet in Arsikere||A BJP meeting held at Arsikere on Tuesday for the upcoming Council elections witnessed protests, heated arguments and fistfights. In the presence of Excise Minister K.Gopalaiah and other leaders of the party, leaders of different factions within the taluk unit of the party entered into a heated argument. Within minutes after the Minister left the venue, a couple of workers were assaulted by a group. Mohan Naik, a worker associated with the party’s Haranahalli unit, suffered injuries. The party had convened the meeting at Veerashiva Kalya Mantap as part of the campaign in favour of BJP candidate H.M.Vishwanath. A group of workers raised objections when N.R.Santosh, former political secretary to the Chief Minister, addressed the gathering. They alleged that Mr. Santosh had insulted people, who had been with the party for several years. Mr. Gopalaiah and others intervened to pacify the workers. The meeting ended amidst the chaos. As the Minister and other leaders left the venue, a group of people assaulted Mr. Mohan Naik, who had questioned the contributions of Mr. Santosh to the party in Arsikere. Mr. Naik has been admitted to a hospital in Arsikere. The differences among factions within the party are said to be the reason for the clash. Mr. Santosh is hoping to contest from Arsikere on the BJP ticket in the next Assembly election. However, a faction is against his candidature.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bjp-factions-clash-at-meet-in-arsikere/article37782096.ece
01 December 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Manju to campaign for his son||BJP leader and former Minister A. Manju has said he will campaign for his son, Manthar Gowda, who is contesting the election to the Legislative Council on the Congress ticket from the Kodagu Local Authorities’ constituency. At a meeting of his supporters in Arkalgud on Tuesday, he said he was deeply hurt by the BJP’s notice relieving him of all responsibilities in the party. “Though my son was contesting on the Congress ticket, I had made it clear that I would work for the BJP’s candidate in Hassan. I have never engaged in anti-party activities. I am deeply hurt,” said a tearful Mr. Manju. Later, he said he was thankful for the party’s notice as it had given him a chance to work for his son. “He is the only son I have. I will work for his campaign,” he said. Regarding the election in Hassan, Mr. Manju said he would take a decision on his support within a couple of days. He would convey his decision to his supporters through the phone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/manju-to-campaign-for-his-son/article37781762.ece
01 December 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Two chasing vehicle carrying cattle injured||Two people suffered serious injuries when a pick-up vehicle, allegedly carrying stolen cattle, hit them near Bejjavalli in Tirthahalli taluk on Tuesday. Kiran, 23, and Sharath, 24, brothers from Kittanagadde village, spotted the vehicle carrying cattle, allegedly stolen at Melige village, and chased it on their two-wheeler. It is said the pick-up vehicle hit them before the driver sped away. The injured were rushed to a hospital in Tirthahalli and from there they were shifted to Manipal for treatment. Home Minister Araga Jnanendra, who is also Tirthahalli MLA, met the injured people and assured the residents of the town that the Government would punish cattle thieves.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-chasing-vehicle-carrying-cattle-injured/article37781761.ece
01 December 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Don’t shift graveyard, urge Mummigatti residents||Residents of Mummigatti village located on the outskirts of Dharwad have taken exception to the move to shift the existing graveyard in the village and urged the district administration to allow them to continue to use it. The residents of the village led by gram panchayat members met the Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad on Tuesday and urged him to revoke the decision to shift the graveyard. Apprising the Deputy Commissioner of the issue, they said that six acres earmarked for the graveyard on Survey No 4 in the village was allotted several decades ago. However, now a man claiming to be the owner of the land had objected to it following which the district administration had passed an order on shifting the graveyard from Survey No 4 to Survey No 55, they said. They pointed out that the 2.2 acre land on Survey No 55 identified for shifting the graveyard is located six kilometres away from Mummigatti village and the residents of the village would have to walk six kilometres to perform the last rites. They urged the Deputy Commissioner to look into the issue and pass a suitable order to enable the residents to continue using the existing graveyard. They submitted a memorandum.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dont-shift-graveyard-urge-mummigatti-residents/article37781957.ece
01 December 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Gold ring, money being offered: Ivan D’souza||AICC secretary and Chikkodi-in-charge for Congress Ivan D’souza has alleged that the ruling party was offering gold ring and money to get votes in the Council election, but the sensible voters will teach them a lesson. Addressing presspersons at Ugar Khurd in Kagwad taluk of Belagavi district on Tuesday, Mr. D’souza sought to know how development could be possible by a government which was seeking 40% commission in the grants received by various departments. “Such has been the sorry state of affairs in the present government that contractors have written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to save them from the commission menace,” he said. He said Congress candidate Channaraj Hattiholi would win the Council election by getting more than required number of first preferential votes. Visit with ex-MLA Earlier, Mr. D’souza had a talk with former MLA Bharamagouda (Raju) Kage at his residence for over an hour on the council election. Mr. D’souza’s visit comes in the wake of reports about Mr. Raju Kage being upset with the Congress leadership on the way he was being treated in the party. He was accompanied by the district Congress office-bearers and leaders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/gold-ring-money-being-offered-ivan-dsouza/article37781961.ece
01 December 2021||Hubballi,KARNATAKA||Bommai to attend wedding on SDM college campus||Will Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, who is repeatedly urging people to exercise caution, participate in a wedding ceremony at Sri Veerendra Heggade Kalakshetra located on the campus of SDM College of Medical Sciences and Hospital, where 306 people have tested positive for COVID-19 in the last couple of days? It appears so as per the official tour programme put out by the Chief Minister’s Office. This is even as the hospital OPD has been closed till Wednesday following a surge in infections. Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad Nitesh Patil had appealed to people to avoid social and cultural gatherings and had declared holiday for schoolsand colleges in the radius of 500 m from the medical college till Wednesday. But susprisingly, a grand wedding will take place on Wednesday on the same campus. Mr. Patil, meanwhile, said the wedding at the kalakshetra on Wednesday had been permitted with the condition that only 100 fully vaccinated members should participate in it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bommai-to-attend-wedding-on-sdm-college-campus/article37781759.ece
01 December 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Special vaccination camps for migrant workers in Udupi||Udupi Deputy Commissioner M. Kurma Rao on Tuesday directed Health and Family Welfare Department officials to organise special COVID-19 vaccination camps for migrant workers between 7 a.m. and 10 a.m. on Sundays. He felt the need for special camps during his visit to camps where migrant workers stay in Beedinagudde in the city. Mr. Rao was told workers would leave for work early in the morning and return late in the evening. As such, they do not get time to get vaccinated. Therefore, special camps should be organised at bus stands, railway stations and other places where workers congregate in large numbers on Sundays. Officials should ensure everyone gets both the doses of the vaccine. Mr. Rao later visited a vaccination camp being conducted at the Rajangana of Sri Krishna Mutt. On watching only one personnel entering data while about 30 people waited for their turn to get vaccinated, he asked officials to deploy one more personnel for data entry. District COVID-19 Nodal Officer M.G. Rama and Municipal Commissioner Uday Shetty and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/special-vaccination-camps-for-migrant-workers-in-udupi/article37782173.ece
01 December 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||City police decide to act tough against fish transporting vehicles spilling waste water||As spilling of fish waste water on roads and other public places by fish transporting vehicles continues unabated in the region, the police have decided to take action as per law. Police Commissioner N. Shashi Kumar on Tuesday directed Deputy Commissioner of Police (Crime and Traffic) B.P. Dinesh Kumar to initiate action against fish transporting vehicles spilling waste water. Mr. Shashi Kumar told The Hindu that he has convened a meeting of representatives of fish transporters on Saturday to tell them not to spill waste water on roads. If they continue to discharge waste water thereafter, strict action will be initiated, he said. Fish transportation gains momentum once the two-month fishing holiday ends by July-end every year. While spilled waste water on roads gets washed away when it rains, it becomes more visible and dominant once the rain abates. Many motorcyclists and bicycle riders suffer injuries in accidents because of slippery roads. Arterial roads leading out of Mangaluru Fishing Harbour, including Kulur-Ferry Road, Mercara Trunk Road and Mangaladevi Road, within the city, and National Highways 66, 169 and 75, are smeared with waste water, particularly during the morning hours. Auction of fish catch from mechanised fishing vessels takes place at the harbour early in the mornings and vehicles leave for different destinations thereafter. Responding to frequent complaints about fish waste water menace during his weekly phone-in programmes, the then Police Commissioner had initiated stringent action. During a meeting in December 2018, he had said that the police will not allow fish transporting vehicles to operate on city roads if they are not fitted with waste water collection tanks. He had also said that he will seize them, if they did not comply with the direction. Similar action was proposed against vehicles transporting decayed fish to fish meal factories from the harbour. The enforcement, however, waned in 2019 and later during COVID-19 outbreak.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/city-police-decide-to-act-tough-against-fish-transporting-vehicles-spilling-waste-water/article37782179.ece
01 December 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||St. Joseph Vaz annual feast from tomorrow||The Annual Feast of St. Joseph Vaz will be celebrated from December 2 to 5 at St. Joseph Vaz Shrine, Miracle Hills, Mudipu, near here. Director and Parish Priest of the shrine Rev. Fr. Assisi Rebello told presspersons here on Tuesday that St. Joseph Vaz, who performed miracles on the hills of Mudipu, was declared a saint on January 14, 2015 by Pope Francis in Sri Lanka. A solemn mass will be arranged for the sick and disabled at 5 p.m. on Thursday led by Rev. Fr. Anil Fernandes, Divine Call Retreat Centre, Mulki. Mangaluru Diocese Bishop Most Rev. Peter Paul Saldanha will preside over the solemn festive mass at 10.30 a.m. on Friday. Parish Priest Immaculate Conception Church Urwa Rev. Fr. Benjamin Pinto will lead a solemn mass at 10.30 a.m. on Saturday. Bishop Emeritus Most Rev. Aloysius Paul D’Souza will lead a solemn mass at 10.30 a.m. on Sunday. Masses in Kannada and Konkani will be offered at 4 p.m. and 6 p.m., respectively, during the feast. Mass feeding will be arranged for pilgrims.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/st-joseph-vaz-annual-feast-from-tomorrow/article37782176.ece
01 December 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Gang assaults member of rival group in Urwa||A 19-year-old man said to be associated with the Talvar Jagga gang was assaulted by members of the Alake gang in Urwa Police limits on Saturday night. The police said that Shravan was assaulted by eight men. He has been admitted to a private hospital. And, his condition is critical, the police said. Shravan, the police said, was a friend of Ankit, who is the brother of two men from Talvar Jagga gang who were arrested in connection with the murder of Indrajeet, a member of the Alake gang, in Barke in 2020. The attack on Shravan appeared to be an act of retaliation by the Alake gang members to Indrajeet’s murder, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/gang-assaults-member-of-rival-group-in-urwa/article37782169.ece
01 December 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Temple says don’t fall prey to unauthorised websites||The managing committee of Sri Guru Narasimha Temple, Saligrama, Udupi district, on Tuesday said that people and devotees should not fall prey to unauthorised websites offering services in the name of the temple. Committee president K.S. Karanth in a release here said that operation of a number of unauthorised websites has come to the notice of the committee. “The so-called self-acclaimed intermediary agencies are reportedly luring the innocent and gullible devotees of quite a large number of temples all over the country, including the historical Sri Guru Narasimha and Anjaneya temples situated in Saligrama, Udupi district.” Dr. Karanth said that the public at large and the devotees in particular are cautioned not to fall prey to such advertisements offering sevas of the dual temples. Devotees may directly contact the office of both the temples regarding the offerings and sevas, he said. The temple’s official website is srigurunarasimhatemple.com and the email id isguru.narasimha.temple@- Gmail.com. The Guru Narasimha Temple office may be contacted on Ph: 0820-2987444, 9449545714 or 9483488684 and the Sri Anjaneya Temple on ph: 8762305714, Dr. Karanth said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/temple-says-dont-fall-prey-to-unauthorised-websites/article37782177.ece
01 December 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||‘Cong., JD(S) candidates newcomers’||Minister in charge of Mysuru and Chamarajanagar districts S.T. Somashekar on Tuesday described the candidates fielded by the Congress and the JD(S) as “new faces” while the BJP candidate has established a close contact with the electorate despite losing the last election to the Legislative Council from the local bodies of Mysuru and Chamarajanagar districts. “Somebody should know the issues concerning the gram panchayats. The candidate should also be aware about addressing the problems at the grassroots’ level. The candidate should have worked at the grassroots’ level closely for addressing the grievances locally. Both the Congress and the JD(S) candidates are newcomers and have not worked in these areas unlike the BJP candidate,” the Minister maintained, while campaigning for the party candidate Raghu Kautilya in Hunsur taluk. The Minister held meetings with the members of local bodies in various places across the taluk. The government programmes will come to the doorsteps of the electorate if the BJP candidate was elected as the party was in rule at the Centre and the State, he said. Besides roads and drinking water supply, the issue of migration from the villages needs to be stopped, he said. “You can contact our candidate as he will be accessible whenever you want. Our candidate will make efforts to strengthen the GPs participating in gram Sabha meetings, and also work towards addressing the problems,” the Minister told a gathering during his campaign. A person elected to the Legislative Council must be aware about bringing funds to the constituency and should effectively speak in the Council and get the funds sanctioned. “Our candidate has the experience of bringing funds since he has worked with the present government,” the Minister claimed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cong-jds-candidates-newcomers/article37782100.ece
01 December 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||BJP targets JD(S) candidate in Mysuru||With the campaign for the ensuing elections to Legislative Council from the dual-member Mysuru-Chamarajanagar constituency gaining momentum, the BJP appears to be sharpening its attack on the JD(S) candidate C.N. Manje Gowda. A day after Minister for Cooperation S.T. Somashekar levelled allegations against Mr. Manje Gowda during an election meeting on Monday, the latter issued a public statement demanding evidence for the charges levelled against him. “The accusations you levelled against me on Monday are far from truth. I thought you were among the wise ones in the Ministry”, Mr. Gowda said and offered to withdraw from electoral fray and from politics if Mr. Somashekar produced evidence to support his accusations. A video clip showing Mr. Somashekar levelling accusations against the JD(S) candidate is doing the rounds on social media. Meanwhile, Mr. Somashekar, when asked by reporters to elaborate on the allegations, said he will convene a press conference and provide details. The BJP’s attack comes even as former Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa had publicly sought the support of JD(S) in the elections. Mr. Somashekar has ruled out the possibility of BJP seeking JD(S) support in the constituency. It may be mentioned here that the BJP candidate Raghu Kautilya had finished third in the previous elections when the counting of preferential votes was taken up. The Congress candidate R. Dharmasena and JD(S) candidate Sandesh Nagaraj had clinched the seats in the dual-member constituency during the last elections. Meanwhile, the political parties have now begun asking their supporters to cast only one vote in the preferential pattern of voting. Referring to former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah’s call to the supporters of the Congress party in the urban and rural local bodies to cast only one vote in favour of the Congress, Mr. Somashekar said the BJP too was asking its supporters to vote only for their candidate. During an election meeting with party leaders and Congress corporators in Mysuru City Corporation held at his residence in the City on Monday, Mr. Siddaramaiah said the Congress enjoyed the support of the maximum number of voters and its candidate D. Thimmaiah will win in the first round itself if supporters do not exercise the option of voting for their second preferential candidate. The Mysuru-Chamarajanagar constituency has a total of 6,987 voters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bjp-targets-jds-candidate-in-mysuru/article37782097.ece
01 December 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Remembering the 1971 war martyrs||The next of kin of 1971 war martyrs from Mysuru – Flying Officer K.P Muralidharan of 20 Air Squadron and Risaldar B.M. Kaveriappa of 66 Armoured Regiment – were felicitated as part of the “Vijay Shrinkhla Aur Sanskritiyon Ka Mahasangram” celebrations organised by NCC Group Mysuru here on Tuesday. At the function held at Kaveri Auditorium on the Karnataka State Open University (KSOU) premises, Lalithakrishna Kumar, sister of K.P. Muralidharan, and B.M. Machaiah, son of B.M. Kaveriappa, were present. A statement from NCC Group Mysuru said the year 2021 has a special significance as it marks not only the 75 years of Indian Independence, but also 50 years of India’s victory over Pakistan in the 1971 war, leading to the creation of Bangladesh. The NCC is celebrating the occasion throughout the country from November 28 to December 19, with 75 next of kin of the martyrsfelicitated at 75 locations. Maj. Gen. (Retd) C.K. Karumbaya was the chief guest while Maj. Gen. (Retd) S.G. Vombatkere was the guest of honour. Veteran officers from different ranks of the armed forces. Defence officers, Junior Commissioned Officers and others posted in Mysuru attended the event. NCC Group Command Col. R.R. Menon, Associate NCC Officers and NCC cadets were also present at the ceremony, according to a statement from Mamatha Prasad M, 13 KAR Batallion, NCC Mysuru.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/remembering-the-1971-war-martyrs/article37782099.ece
01 December 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||FIR against 8 persons||The police have registered an FIR against eight persons from Byalaru village in Nanjangud rural police limits for allegedly beating a 31-year-old man, who later died in police custody. Siddaraju was reportedly harassing a woman from the village on Saturday evening. The accused had handed over Siddaraju to the police, but he took ill on Sunday afternoon. Though he was taken to hospital, the doctors said he had died. The case was entrusted to the Criminal Investigation Department (CID) on Monday. The mother of the deceased lodged a complaint against the eight for allegedly beating his son. The police registered an FIR and arrested three of them so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/fir-against-8-persons/article37782101.ece
01 December 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Niranjana appointed V-C of North Bengaluru varsity||Niranjana, professor and chairman, Department of Studies in Journalism and Mass Communications, University of Mysore, who was appointed Vice-Chancellor of Bengaluru North University, Kolar, said it was a challenging assignment and he would work to take the varsity to new heights. In his reactions on being appointed as the Vice-Chancellor of the nascent varsity which was established in 2017, Prof. Niranajana said he will strive hard to live up to the faith reposed in him by the government and the Governor. Known for his columns and books which appear by the name of Niranjan Vanalli, he has nearly 33 years of experience in teaching communication and journalism. He was also the registrar of Karnataka State Dr. Gangubai Hangal Music and Performing Arts University. He has authored over 30 books apart from producing documentary films.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/niranjana-appointed-v-c-of-north-bengaluru-varsity/article37782102.ece
01 December 2021||Mysuru/Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||V-Cs appointed to RGUHS, Bengaluru North varsity||Governor’s Secretariat on Tuesday notified appointments of Vice-Chancellors for Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences (RGUHS) and Bengaluru North University, Kolar. M.K. Ramesh, president of the Post-Graduate Medical Education Board, National Medical Commission, will be the V-C of RGUHS. Niranjana, professor and chairman, Department of Studies in Journalism and Mass Communications, University of Mysore, has been appointed V-C of Bengaluru North University, Kolar. Dr. Ramesh in the past has served the university as Registrar (Evaluation) and as acting V-C. After the former V-C S. Sacchidanand retired on June 14, Jayakara S.M., principal of AECS Maruthi College of Dental Sciences, was appointed incharge V-C. The appointment had become controversial after Health and Family Welfare Minister K. Sudhakar expressed displeasure over it. Prof. Niranjana, in his reactions on being appointed to the nascent varsity which was established in 2017, said he would strive hard to live up to the faith reposed in him. Known for his columns and books which appear by the name of Niranjan Vanalli, he has nearly 33 years of experience in teaching communication and journalism.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/v-cs-appointed-to-rguhs-bengaluru-north-varsity/article37781751.ece
01 December 2021||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Doctor felicitated for bagging national award||The Yadgir district unit of Indian Medical Association (IMA) felicitated Veeresh Jaka, a city-based doctor, for bagging the Dr. Kethan Desai Youth Leader Award for remarkable contribution during COVID-19 and serving infected people at the government and his private hospital in Yadgir. He was conferred the award in New Delhi recently. After felicitating Dr. Jaka, District Leprosy Officer and Psychiatrist Bhagawanth Anawar appreciated the young doctor for showing concern towards the infected patients and said, “Dr. Jaka’s contribution during a crucial period of the pandemic was immense and his service will remain in the hearts of thousands of patients.” Dr. Jaka, who is the only doctor to have been selected from the Kalyan Karnataka region and among 10 others from the State, said that after receiving a national award his responsibility towards service has increased. “I will continue my service to the poor people, especially those from the rural areas, and provide better medical service,” Dr. Jaka added. The award is conferred every year on doctors aged less than 40.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/doctor-felicitated-for-bagging-national-award/article37781956.ece
01 December 2021||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||‘No truck with JD(S) in Council elections’||KPCC spokesperson and Chittapur MLA Priyank Kharge has ruled out any possibility in getting support from Janata Dal (Secular) for the Legislative Council election which is scheduled to be held on December 10. He was addressing an election campaign in Gurmitkal on Tuesday. “We learnt a lesson from the last Parliamentary election by getting support from them. This time, we will face the election by our own strength as we have prominent workers and members,” he said. ‘Three Chief Ministers’ He said: “ I had said that BJP will see three Chief Ministers even during this tenure. Minister K.S. Eshwarappa has expressed that Minister Murugesh Nirani will soon become the Chief Minister of the State.” Later, talking to reporters in Yadgir, Mr. Kharge said the Bitcoin scam involves many technical issues. I was talking about it as I was working as the IT/BT Minister. The government should conduct an investigation properly to bring the truth out and we will raise this issue in the coming sessions, he added. ‘People will decide’ When asked about the statement of the BJP leaders stating that Mr. Kharge will disappear after the 2023 Assembly elections, he sharply reacted and said that it was the people who should decide not the BJP. “Yes, we lost in the last Parliamentary election in Kalaburagi. But, we know how to win elections as we have a strong base and full support of the people,” he said and added that the BJP should first declare its candidate in Chittapur and then talk about results.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/no-truck-with-jds-in-council-elections/article37781958.ece
01 December 2021||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||BJP trying to purchase voters: Priyank Kharge||KPCC spokesperson and Chittapur MLA Priyank Kharge has alleged that BJP has been trying to purchase voters for the Council’s election in Kalaburagi-Yadgir constituency. But, voters will surely refuse them and elect the Congress candidate for the development of rural and urban areas. He was addressing a campaign for the Council election for Kalaburagi-Yadgir constituency in Gurmitkal and Yadgir on Tuesday. He said the BJP has been luring voters as candidate B.G. Patil is the businessman having no vision of developing the constituency. But, the Congress has fielded Shivanand Patil, who has thorough knowledge in the rural development and panchayat raj. “You should compare both the candidates and vote. I am confident that the voters will definitely elect the Congress candidate for the development of the constituency by raising voice at sessions and with government level,” Mr. Kharge added Stating that the BJP, which, according to him, came to power in the state by investing huge money on MLAs has been looting the state and corruption had developed in every corner of the administration because of the government’s failure. “Against the corruption in the government, BJP leaders like Basanagowda Patil Yatnal, C.P. Yogeshwar and H. Vishwanath criticised corruption and openly objected to the interference from the family members of former Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa and senior Minister K.S. Eshwarappa also wrote to the Governor about the corruption and interference in his portfolio. In the history of Karnataka, this was the first instance where a Cabinet Minister wrote to the Governor against his own government,” he added. Mr. Kharge, who specifically attacked the BJP and its ideologies, said that BJP will never face the election on development base but it will choose subject related to religion and caste in the election. “If you ask them about development, they will say about Ram Temple and Sri Ram and try to sow communally-poisoned seeds in society,” he criticised. Mr. Patil, while addressing the gathering, challenged B.G. Patil, BJP candidate, to talk at least 10 minutes in the open about his development programmes implemented in the last six years of his period as MLC and also dared him to come to open discussion about the prime concept of the panchayat raj. “I am a common person whom the party recognised and gave the ticket to contest the election. Thus I request voters to bless me to serve with the development visions,” he appealed to voters. Marigowda Patil Hulkal, president of District Congress Committee, former MLC Channareddy Patil Tunnur, Basareddy Malipatil and A.C. Kadlur also spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bjp-trying-to-purchase-voters-priyank-kharge/article37781960.ece
01 December 2021||December 01 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Safe return||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/safe-return/article37782171.ece
01 December 2021||December 01 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Taking to the streets||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/taking-to-the-streets/article37781742.ece
01 December 2021||December 01 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||BH series registration: Dept. issues notification||Though the Union Ministry of Road Transport and Highways had issued a notification on BH series in August, the State Government has issued the notification on its adoption only now. However, its implementation will “happen soon”, said Rajender Kataria, Principal Secretary, Transport Department. Speaking to The Hindu , he said the Transport Commissioner would now have to issue guidelines to the regional transport offices (RTOs), while the NIC would have to take up work on customisation of the software, as the present system does not recognise BH series. That apart, the RTO staff would also have to be trained, he said. Waseem Memon from Drive Without Borders said the move would benefit lakhs of vehicle owners who may have transferable jobs, including employees of Central Government, defence, public sector undertakings, nationalised banks, and private companies. This, he said, was part of the Centre's “One nation, one road tax” initiative. Hailing the development, he said with this, the cost of ownership would come down by at least 15-20%. Explaining, he said vehicle owners were earlier required to pay road tax for 15 years at the time of registration. “If the vehicle owner did get transferred to another State, he/she would have to pay road tax in that State and then claim a refund from the parent State. This was a cumbersome process,” he said. Under the new system, the tax would be levied for two years, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bh-series-registration-dept-issues-notification/article37781743.ece
01 December 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Centre trying to destroy coop. sector: Minister||The Centre is trying to destroy the cooperative sector, Agriculture Minister P. Prasad has said. He was inaugurating the Ambalapuzha Taluk Traditional Industries Employees Welfare Cooperative Society on Tuesday. Mr. Prasad said the State would resist the Centre's move to ruin the cooperative sector. The Minister said the Left Front had strengthened the sector in the State. P.P. Chitharanjan, MLA, presided over the function. Communist Party of India (CPI) district secretary T.J. Anjelose, Department of Cooperation joint registrar (General) S. Jossy, CPI leader G. Krishnaprasad, Society president R. Suresh and others spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/centre-trying-to-destroy-coop-sector-minister/article37782076.ece
01 December 2021||Bengaluru,KERALA||JD(S) and BJP in talks for pact||The former Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa publicly seeking the Janata Dal (Secular) support for its candidates in the Legislative Council elections, which had raised interest in political circles, now seems to be heading to a logical conclusion. Breaking his silence, JD(S) patriarch H.D. Deve Gowda on Tuesday confirmed in Delhi that the former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy and Mr. Yediyurappa were in talks and would decide on the issue soon. This came on a day when Mr. Gowda met with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, which was officially to urge the latter to set up an Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) in Hassan. “Mr. Kumaraswamy and Mr. Yediyurappa will decide on the Legislative Council polls. I have told them the decision should not cause any confusion,” the former Prime Minister told reporters in Delhi. “Let us wait for the decision of the BJP... But there has been no decision on the continuity of the pact for the next elections,” he added. Meanwhile, Mr. Kumaraswamy told The Hindu that the decision to extend support to the BJP had not been taken yet. “I am seeking information from local leadersin all the districts. I am not sure of what stand the BJP takes here. I will make a decision by December 4 or December 5,” he said. Mr. Gowda’s statement assumes importance in the light of the Congress attacking the JD(S) as the “B team” of the BJP. Mr. Kumaraswamy also had said that the party would take a decision on extending support to BJP candidates where the JD(S) was not contesting. Meanwhile, the octogenarian leader said that though Congress leader M. Mallikarjun Kharge was inclined to have a truck with the JD(S), other leaders were not interested. “I am not sure how much weight the opinion of Mr. Kharge carries. I am also not sure about the decision of the Congress high command. We will not approach them,” he said. On the issue of IIT in Hassan, Mr. Gowda said, “The HRD Minister has refused to heed to my earlier request. I had sought time from Mr. Modi and personally met him to urge him to announce an IIT for Hassan.” Dharmendra Pradhan, the earlier Minister, had written to him that an IIT was not possible in Hassan, he added. “IIT in Hassan was conceived during the Janata Dal (Secular)–Congress coalition Government in Karnataka. I discussed the matter with Mr. Modi, who promised to discuss the issue with Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi,” Mr. Gowda said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bsy-hdk-will-decide-on-pact-for-council-polls-deve-gowda/article37781755.ece
01 December 2021||Hyderabad,KERALA||Ramagundam Municipal Commissioner arrested for graft||Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) officials on Tuesday arrested Ramagundam Municipal Corporation commissioner in-charge Kudikala Shankar Kumar, who is Peddapalli RDO, along with his private servant Thota Mallikarjun on the charge of accepting Rs. 1 lakh bribe from a contractor. Both the in-charge Commissioner and his private servant were presented before the special judge of ACB cases in Karimnagar. They were remanded in judicial custody. A statement from the ACB office said a contractor executed the works of spraying sodium hypochloride in the commissionerate area. He applied for sanctioning of Rs. 9.28 lakh towards the works executed. The Commissioner allegedly sought bribe to sanction the bills.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ramagundam-municipal-commissioner-arrested-for-graft/article37782003.ece
01 December 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Mullaperiyar dam a ‘water bomb’: Mani||Former Electricity Minister and Udumbanchola MLA, M.M. Mani has said the Mullaperiyar dam is a water bomb and a solution to it is possible if the governments of Tamil Nadu and Kerala come out for a new dam in its place. Speaking at an indefinite fast of farmers organised by the High Range Samrakshana Samiti at Nedumkandam on Tuesday, Mr. Mani said he had raised the issue in the Assembly also. The stance of the State Government was also for a new dam at Mullaperiyar, he said adding that if the T.N. Government showed the will to build a new dam, the issue would be solved. “I had gone inside the Mullaperiyar dam many times. There is water leakage and it is hollow. Can a dam constructed using jaggery, surki, and lime last for long,” he asked. No effect “Strengthening the dam using cement would have no effect. Will the surki mixture and cement bond together and strengthen the dam? It is a water bomb because the dam is situated at a height,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mullaperiyar-dam-a-water-bomb-mani/article37782072.ece
01 December 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Protest against Centre’s policies to be intensified: Tariq Anwar||Tariq Anwar, All India Congress Committee (AICC) general secretary in-charge of Kerala and Lakshadweep, has said that the agitations launched by the Congress across the country raising public issues would be continued in the coming days. Speaking after inaugurating the Jan Jagran Abhiyan padayatra led by T.Siddique, MLA, at Vaduvanchal in the district on Tuesday, Mr. Anwar said that the country was facing an incomparable crisis owing to the anti-people policies of the Narendra Modi Government. The rising price of fuels, cooking gas, and essential commodities had put the people into distress, Mr. Anwar said. The three farming laws enacted by the Central Government had put the lives of thousands of farmers in the country in a fix and 700 farmers lost their lives in the struggle against the laws, he said. The BJP Government had utterly failed to address the issues of the people. Hence, the Congress was organising Jana Jagran Padayatras across the country to discuss the issues of the common man as directed by the AICC, Mr. Anwar said. The agitation by the party would be intensified in the coming days with the support of the people, Mr. Anwar said. ‘Changes in party’ Speaking to mediapersons in Kozhikode on Monday, Mr. Anwar said that the central leadership of the Congress was firm on restructuring the party in the State. He said that changes in the party apparatus would be effected from the booth committees. With the formation of the Congress Unit Committee (CUC), the party would make a strong impact at the grassroots-level. He said organisational elections would be held in a time-bound manner. Leaders were not dissatisfied with the semi-cadre system. So far, no one had objected to the proposed system of functioning of the party, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/protest-against-centres-policies-to-be-intensified-tariq-anwar/article37782026.ece
01 December 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Man shot dead while chasing away wild boar||A man was killed and another sustained serious injuries in a suspected wild boar shooting accident at Vandiyampetta near Kambalakkadu in Wayanad district. The Kambalakkadu police identified the deceased as Jayan, 36, of Mele Chundarangode Kurichiya tribal hamlet at Mechana near Kottathara in the district. His relative Sharon, 27, was admitted to the Government Medical College Hospital, Kozhikode, with serious bullet injuries. The incident occurred around 10.30 p.m. on Monday while the two men were trying to drive out wild boars from the paddy field of their friend at Vandiyampetta along with two relatives, the police said.  Probes launched The police have taken the relatives, Chandrappan and Kunhiraman of the hamlet, into custody in connection with the incident. During interrogation, they said somebody fired at them while they were trying to drive out the wild boars, the police said. The Forest and Police departments have launched parallel investigations into the incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-shot-dead-in-wayanad/article37782028.ece
01 December 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||‘Stringent action against unvaccinated teachers’||V. Sivankutty, Minister for General Education, said here on Tuesday that there would be no compromise in taking action against teachers who refused to take the COVID vaccine. Speaking to the media, he said the Director of Education had been directed to prepare a school-wise list of teachers who were yet to take the vaccine. The Minister said teachers and non-teachers should be vaccinated and the guideline was that those who were not vaccinated should not enter the campus. He said some time had been given to teachers who had health issues. They should obtain a report from the medical board or committees. On the issue of Plus One seats, he said it would be resolved within a week. He said 21 taluks including Thalassery were found to be short of seats, adding that 75 new batches would be allotted to address the issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/stringent-action-against-unvaccinated-teachers/article37782024.ece
01 December 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||60-year-old man gets life term for raping minor||A 60-year-old man has been sentenced to life imprisonment and fined Rs. 2 lakh for raping a 13-year-old girl. District Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Special Court Judge C.G. Ghosh sentenced C.K. Gopalan of Chamberinellikutty. He was convicted in the case registered by the Irrity police in the incident which took place in 2012. The court ordered that the fine paid should be given to the victim. In case the accused failed to pay the fine, he will have face another 13 months in prison.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/60-year-old-man-gets-life-term-for-raping-minor/article37782035.ece
01 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||100 teachers in district not yet vaccinated||Around 100 teachers in schools under the General Education Department in Ernakulam are yet to be vaccinated against COVID-19. They figure among the estimated 5,000 teaching and non-teaching staff in the State that remain unvaccinated. The guidelines for school reopening stipulated that teachers should get their COVID-19 shots. The government had toughened its stand against staff that have not received the doses amidst discussions about resuming full-fledged offline classes. The number of unvaccinated teachers was 150 in the district at the time of reopening of schools on November 1. The total number of teachers under the department in the district is around 13,000. According to the Education Department in Ernakulam, only one among the nearly 100 teachers had stated “not interested” as the reason for not taking the vaccine. Most of them had stated allergy as the reason for not taking the two doses. A section of the teachers said that they were tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 after receiving the first dose and hence could not take the second dose within the stipulated period. They need at least three months to receive the second dose as per the guidelines prescribed by the Department of Health. The Education Department had asked the teachers, who are yet to be vaccinated, not to attend the offline sessions. They were allowed to take online classes. A decision on the salary payment for teachers falling under this category has not yet been taken by the government. On the steps being taken in the wake of the reports of the Omicron coronavirus variant, the authorities said that they were yet to receive any guidelines in the wake of the new variant being reported in several countries. “We are continuing with the bio-bubble model, where a class is divided into two or three such spaces”, they said. Only the students in a bio-bubble are permitted to interact with one another in the bubble. School managements have to ensure that the entire bio-bubble goes into quarantine after either a student or a teacher in the bubble tests positive for COVID-19, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/100-teachers-in-district-not-yet-vaccinated/article37782048.ece
01 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Brainstorming on better farming||From Kuttanad to Wayanad, rice barns of the State are under stress. Prolonged spells of heavy rain have caused unprecedented loss to farmers. While these extreme weather conditions threaten farmers’ sources of income, they also pose a grave threat to production of food items such as vegetables and fruits, which can plunge the entire State into crises. A community of scientists, researchers and stakeholders will meet online for three days from Wednesday to discuss a new package of practices over the next five years to fortify agriculture in Kerala. The Package of Practices is considered the Bible of farming in the State and recommends a slew of measures, from fertilizer application to pest management, for the farmers as well as field-level officers. Climate change Kerala Agriculture University sources said climate change might not figure prominently in the discussions, while new technologies and findings would be discussed for approval. The discussions will prominently feature the experience and findings of the farmers, scientists and researchers over the last years. Ever since the epic floods of August 2018, rice farming has drastically changed, says K. K. Renil Kumar of Kuttanad, a rice farmer. He says the situation is such that farmers are mostly considering leaving their fields altogether. The support price is not enough to sustain the farmers because with support price going up, the cost of labour inputs such as fertilizers goes up, leaving the farmer with little choice. Extreme weather Veteran pineapple farmer Baby John from Muvattupuzha says soil acidity would have increased with heavy rain washing away the entire tracts of pineapple fields. The new Package of Practices should consider the current situation in which extreme weather conditions have affected productivity and long-term sustainability, he added. Philip Chacko, who is engaged in vegetable farming at Kanjikuzhi in Alappuzha and in Palakkad district, says the extreme weather conditions has resulted in loss of farming days. Loss of farming days The losses have resulted from flooding of fields as well as reduction in the number of farming days, especially during summer. Floods washed away entire fields and continuous rain compounds the negative effects on crops, he says, adding that harvests have come down to about 20% of the normal levels after the rain set in early this year. A senior KAU scientist says farmers, both in Kuttanad and Wayanad, have experienced the bitter effects of the weather conditions. Heavy rain has affected rice production in these centres, and the effects of shifting weather conditions are obvious, the scientist says.  The Package of Practices recommends a slew of measures for the farmers and field-level officers||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/brainstorming-on-better-farming/article37782064.ece
01 December 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Fisticuffs at council meet over damaged door||Differences over meeting the expenses of repairing the damaged door of the municipal Chairperson’s cabin in the Thrikkakara Municipality ended in fisticuffs between ruling and opposition councillors. Six councillors, including Chairperson Ajitha Thankappan, were hospitalised with minor injuries. The ruling United Democratic Front (UDF) and the opposition Left Democratic (LDF) councillors blamed each other for damaging the door. The council meeting on Tuesday saw a proposal being put up for making payment for the repair of the damaged door. Chairperson Ajitha Thankappan said LDF councillors had been targetting her and the ruckus was caused with an aim of bringing her down from the Chairperson’s position. She is among the councillors admitted to a private hospital near Kakkanad. Opposition leader K. Chandrababu of the CPI(M) said the door was damaged by UDF councillors and the opposition objected to repairing it using the official fund of the municipality.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fisticuffs-at-council-meet-over-damaged-door/article37782053.ece
01 December 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Directive to give school admission to rape survivor||The Kerala High Court on Tuesday directed the Government to make all efforts expeditiously to ensure that the survivor in a rape case was given admission in a government school at Mavelikara to pursue her studies. Justice Raja Vijayaraghavan passed the order on a petition filed by the mother of the survivor, alleging that her child was refused admission in a school of her choice. The petitioner said when the child was studying a vocational higher secondary coursein an aided school, she was sexually abused. A crime under the POCSO Act was registered by the Kunnikode police and the accused was arrested. The school was located near the house of the accused. The girl was being taunted by certain persons. She, therefore, applied for transfer of admission to a government school. However, the school authorities refused to give her admission. When the petition came up for hearing, the pleader submitted that the authorities were making earnest efforts to accommodate the girl in the government school. As it was noticed that no seats were vacant at the school, steps were being taken to ensure that she was provided a seat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/directive-to-give-school-admission-to-rape-survivor/article37782077.ece
01 December 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Abrupt ending to corpn. council meeting irks UDF||The Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) organised a mock council meeting in front of the entrance of the Kochi Corporation building on Tuesday protesting against what they termed as the reluctance of the Mayor to allow general discussion in the council meeting. Mayor M. Anilkumar’s statement at the beginning of the council proceedings that the Kochi Corporation council cannot take policy decisions in the wake of the upcoming bypoll in the Gandhi Nagar division had invited protest from opposition councillors. Speaking at the meeting, Antony Kureethara, the Congress leader in the council, stated that the Opposition had the issues of damaged city roads, increasing mosquito menace and the derailed waste management to be brought to the the notice of the civic administration. However, the Mayor refused to allow discussion and ended the council proceedings by declaring that the agenda was passed. The proceedings ended in less than 30 minutes. Later, Mr. Anilkumar, in a statement, alleged that the opposition councillors were planing to rake up issues in the council with an eye on the ensuing bypoll in Gandhi Nagar. The UDF hoped to make use of the council meeting to create a hullabaloo and use it for the propaganda in the division which was going to polls, he alleged. No effective discussion could be held and decisions taken in the council as the model code of conduct was in force. No tender documents could be finalised or agreements signed during the period. However, the council meeting was convened to fulfil the statutory obligation of convening the meeting at least once in a month, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/abrupt-ending-to-corpn-council-meeting-irks-udf/article37782045.ece
01 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Marakkar wasn’t intended for OTT release, says Mohanlal||Actor Mohanlal said here on Tuesday that his movie Marakkar: Arabikadalinte Simham was never intended to be released first on the OTT (over-the-top) platform. The debate on whether the movie will first hit the OTT platform or reach the theatres had triggered a debate in the Malayalam film industry a few weeks ago. Antony Perumbavoor, producer of the movie, had said on November 5 that the film would have an OTT-first release while blaming the the Film Exhibitors’ United Organisation of Kerala for not making any allowance to release it in the theatres. Minister’s intervention However, Mohanlal and Mr. Antony later decided to release the movie in theatres, especially after Minister for Cinema Saji Cherian requested them to opt for a theatre release. Mohanlal claimed that the nod for the OTT release was given only after deciding on the date of the theatre release. On allegations that business interests had prompted him to go for an OTT release, Mohanlal said that movie making was a business and he had produced several films over his career spanning over four decades. “Some did not fare well at the box office. But If I make a Rs. 100-crore movie, what is wrong in expecting a return of Rs. 105 crore?” the actor asked.  Marakkar: Arabikadalinte Simham will be released in cinemas on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/marakkar-was-not-intended-for-ott-release-says-mohanlal/article37782027.ece
01 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Vice Admiral Hampiholi takes over as SNC chief||Vice Admiral M.A. Hampiholi on Tuesday took over as Flag Officer Commanding-in-Chief of the Southern Naval Command (SNC) headquartered in Kochi and which takes care of all naval training. Vice Admiral Hampiholi took over the reins from outgoing Vice Admiral Anil K. Chawla, who retired from the Navy after nearly four decades of service. Vice AdmiralHampiholi was the Commandant of the Indian Naval Academy at Ezhimala in Kannur prior to his new appointment. A native of Dharward in Karnataka, he is a specialist in anti-submarine warfare. A ceremonial parade, consisting of 16 platoons, including four armed platoons and a 50-man ‘Guard of Honour’ were held at the Naval Base on Tuesday in which both Vice Admirals were accorded general salutes and the parade ended with a ‘March in Review Order’. This was followed by the formal taking over of the command. Vice Admiral Chawla expressed happiness at the synergy achieved by the command with the State administration in responding to different humanitarian assistance requirements. Training goals He said he was happy that the command had achieved its training goals in providing quality and trained manpower for the combat platforms. On completion of the handing-over ceremony, Vice Admiral Chawla was accorded farewell by heads of units, Commanding Officers, Chief Staff officers, sailors and defence civilians. The traditional “pulling out” ceremony was also conducted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vice-admiral-hampiholi-takes-over-as-snc-chief/article37782046.ece
01 December 2021||Kochi,KERALA||CIAL steps up vigil against Omicron||In the wake of COVID-19 variant Omicron getting reported from a few countries, vigil at Cochin International Airport Ltd. (CIAL) has been strengthened to detect and isolate patients. After a review meeting on the steps being taken, District Collector Jafar Malik on Tuesday said that extensive measures to conduct RT-PCR tests for international passengers arriving at CIAL have been taken. All passengers from the 12 high-risk countries and at least 5% of randomly selected passengers flying in from other countries will have to undergo RT-PCR at the airport itself, with results made available in four hours. A special holding area for passengers awaiting test results has been readied. For passengers testing positive for SARS-CoV-2, 100 beds have been earmarked at the special COVID care centre at Ambalamugal. Only passengers with RT-PCR negative results are being flown in by international airlines. Inbound passengers from the high-risk countries will have to be in seven-day quarantine at their homes or places of stay even if their RT-PCR results are negative. They are required to take RT-PCR test again after seven days of quarantine. Collection of passenger details and sharing the same with COVID monitoring units will be strictly done with the support of National Informatics Centre. District Medical Officer Dr. V. Jayashree, National Health Mission district programme officer Dr Sajith John and others took part in the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cial-steps-up-vigil-against-omicron/article37782047.ece
01 December 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Accused has links with drug peddlers: police||The city police suspect that Syju M. Thankachan, who has been accused of following the two models who were killed in a car crash, has links to drug peddlers. The accused needs to be interrogated regarding the use of narcotic substances and its trade to know more about the network of drug users and sellers in Kochi, the police submitted before a trial court here on Tuesday. The contents of the social media accounts of the accused need to be extracted with the help of cyber experts. If released on bail, the accused may tamper with the social media accounts, change its passwords and even delete the accounts. There also existed the possibility of the accused absconding and influencing the witnesses and tampering with evidence, the police submitted before the court. The police submitted that cases were pending against the accused for criminal breach of trust, cheating, dishonestly inducing delivery of property and wildlife crime. Fashion models Ansi Kabeer and Anjana Shajan and their friend Muhamad Ashique had died when the car in which they were travelling overturned and hit a tree on the Palarivattom bypass in the early hours of November 1. Abdul Rahman, who was behind the wheels, had sustained serious injuries in the accident. They were returning home from a party held at Hotel Number 18 at Fort Kochi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/syju-has-links-to-drug-peddlers-suspect-police/article37782049.ece
01 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Kannur University VC reappointment challenged||The reappointment of Gopinath Ravindran as Vice Chancellor of Kannur University has been challenged before the Kerala High Court. In a quo warranto writ petition, Premachandran Keezhoth and Shino P. Jose, members of the Senate and Academic Council respectively of the university, said the reappointment of Dr. Ravindran was not based on any independent evaluation or consideration of his contributions. The decision to reappoint him was taken based on the State Government’s request. Therefore, the appointment was in violation of the University Grants Commission (UGC) regulations, they said. Selection panel The petitioners contended that as per the UGC regulations, the selection for the post of Vice Chancellor should be made through proper identification of three to five persons by a search-cum-selection committee. Dr. Ravindran was reappointed for four years with effect from November 24, 2021, after withdrawing a notification issued earlier constituting a three-member selection committee. The petitioners contended that the reappointment was void ab initio and he was not entitled to hold the post legally.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/reappointment-of-kannur-varsity-vc-challenged/article37782021.ece
01 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||SilverLine: HC seeks response of Govt., K-Rail||The Kerala High Court on Tuesday sought the response of the State Government and Kerala Rail Development Corporation Ltd. (K-Rail) to a petition seeking initiation of a contempt of court case against them for breaching an undertaking given to the court that the land acquisition proceedings for the Thiruvananthapuram-Kasaragod semi high-speed SilverLine project would be initiated only after getting sanction from the Centre and other authorities. Concurrence sought The petition was filed by M.T. Thomas, Mulakulam, Kottayam, and others. According to the petitioner, when his petition challenged the land acquisition proceedings for the project, the Government had undertaken that the project would be implemented only after getting concurrence from the Central Government, Railway Board and other authorities. However, K-Rail had invited tenders for conducting an Environment Impact Assessment (EIA) study, totally disregarding the undertaking. The Government had scant regard for its undertaking given to the court. Even hundreds of hectares of land had been frozen and it was going ahead with the land acquisition proceedings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/silverline-hc-seeks-response-of-govt-k-rail/article37782058.ece
01 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Implement order on loudspeaker use, says HC||A Division Bench of the Kerala High Court on Tuesday directed the State government and District Collectors to scrupulously implement the High Court guidelines, statutory provisions, and various government orders on regulating the use of loudspeakers. The court directed that if there was any violation of the statutory provisions and instructions, strict action must be taken against the violators. The court made it clear that that permission for the use of loudspeakers could be given without violating the statutory provisions. The guidelines and orders include a ban on the use of loudspeakers between 10 p.m. and 6 a.m. except on closed premises such as auditoriums, use of box-type loudspeakers, instead of corn types, and adjusting the sound on the premises.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/implement-order-on-loudspeaker-use-says-hc/article37782059.ece
01 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Court issues notice on plea by FACT staff||The Kerala High Court on Tuesday issued notice to the Centre and Chairman, Central Board of Direct Taxes, on a writ petition seeking a directive to enhance the income tax exemption limit on earned leave salary received by the FACT employees at the time of their retirement. The petitioner said the exemption limit for FACT employees still remained at Rs. 3 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/court-issues-notice-on-plea-by-fact-staff/article37782051.ece
01 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||IAP to celebrate golden jubilee||Health Minister Veena George will inaugurate the golden jubilee celebrations of the Indian Academy of Paediatrics, Kerala (IAP, Kerala) on December 4 online. The annual conference of the body titled “Pedicon Kerala 2021” will begin at IMA House here on Wednesday, Dr. M. Narayanan, organising secretary, said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/iap-to-celebrate-golden-jubilee/article37782052.ece
01 December 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Student’s death: accused in police custody||The Aluva First Class Judicial Magistrate Court on Tuesday gave the District-C Branch probing the death of law student Mofia Parveen three days’ custody of the three accused in the case. Her husband Muhammed Suhail and parents Rukhiya Yousuf and Yousuf Said Muhammed were arrested for charges under Sections 304B (dowry death), 498A (husband or relative of husband of a woman subjecting her to cruelty), 306 (abetment of suicide) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code. A team led by investigation officer V. Rajeev is interrogating the accused. “We will record their statements extensively and then verify it with their relatives. We would also take them to their home for evidence collection,” said investigation sources. The husband has surrendered his mobile phone, which the investigators will examine thoroughly . It may also be subjected to forensic examination to retrieve deleted data. The marriage documents of the couple may also be verified. The court had turned down their bail applications in the face of stringent opposition by the prosecution. The police remain confident that the three days’ custody will be enough to tie up the loose ends, if any. The woman was found hanging at her house in Edayapuram last week leaving behind a note that accused her husband and in-laws of domestic violence and dowry-related harassment and the then inspector of Aluva East police station C.L. Sudheer of rude behaviour. The inspector was since then suspended pending inquiry and an FIR was registered against him following an intense protest launched by the opposition who clashed with the police and turned Aluva town into a battlefield last week. The death of the youngster had triggered protests with agencies, including the State Human Rights Commission and Women’s Commission intervening in the matter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/death-of-law-student-police-get-custody-of-accused/article37782050.ece
01 December 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Omicron: Kollam gears up to combat threat||In the wake of the new SARS-CoV-2 variant Omicron, the Kollam district administration has commenced extensive preparations to combat any possible threat. The district authorities have instructed the Health officials to complete the second dose of vaccination as the variant is deemed more contagious, and a special action plan will be launched for achieving the target. A team headed by the District Medical Officer will formulate the plan, while panchayat-level preventive measures will be strengthened. Those arriving from other States will have to register on the COVID-19 Jagratha portal. The police and the health officials and the local authorities have been asked to closely monitor them. District Collector Afsana Parveen has issued directions to ensure crowd control measures at celebrations organised at places of worship. Only 100 people are allowed to attend indoor functions, while 200 persons can attend ceremonies held outdoors. Protocol compliance will be made a priority. More vaccine centres Kollam Mayor Prasanna Ernest has demanded setting up of more vaccination centres to expedite vaccine administration. The authorities are also planning to reintroduce the COVID-19 containment and preventive measures implemented in the earlier phases of the pandemic. Ms. Earnest said the Kollam Corporation has already started preparations, and the COVID first line treatment centre (FLTC) currently functioning at the hockey stadium should be shifted to a more convenient location. The Police Department will strengthen protocol enforcement, including the use of masks, while public places will be closely monitored. According to Health officials, the test positivity rate (TPR) in Kollam district has come down and more rapid response teams (RRT) will be formed as part of intensification of preventive measures. Since several countries, including the U.K., South Africa, Brazil, Bangladesh, Botswana, China, Mauritius, New Zealand, Zimbabwe, Singapore, Hong Kong and Israel, have reported Omicron cases, additional restrictions will apply to those arriving from these nations. Screening Screening at airports and a seven-day quarantine are mandatory even if they test negative. Those testing positive will be isolated and their test samples will be sent to at Rajiv Gandhi Centre for Biotechnology in Thiruvananthapuram for genome sequencing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/omicron-kollam-gears-up-to-combat-threat/article37782078.ece
01 December 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Cultural meet begins||Finance Minister K.N. Balagopal inaugurated Y’s Drupad 2021, Y’s Men International’s south-west India regional cultural meet, at Mylam here on Monday. Regional director Johnson K. Zachariah presided over the function while K.N. Ayyappan, Joyce Jacob, G. Jacob, Jacob Mathew Kurakkaran, and K.O. Johnson spoke on the occasion. More than 500 artists from Kanyakumari, Kollam, and Thiruvananthapuram districts participated in the meet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cultural-meet-begins/article37782079.ece
01 December 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Training in fodder grass cultivation||The Indigenous Milk Products Training and Development Centre, Oachira, is conducting a training programme in fodder grass cultivation on December 3 and 4. Interested persons can register their names before December 2 . For details, contact phone numbers 8075028868, 9947775978, 0476 2698550.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/training-in-fodder-grass-cultivation/article37782081.ece
01 December 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Communal harmony campaign week||As part of Communal Harmony Campaign Week and Flag Day 2021, Fatima Mata National College is organising a four-day programme. Fr. Anil Jose, manager, FMNC, inaugurated the programme on Tuesday and college Principal P.J. Jojo presided over the function. Apart from a poster-making competition held on Tuesday, many other programmes, including street theatre, will be organised in connection with the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/communal-harmony-campaign-week/article37782080.ece
01 December 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Smart garbage system in Kottayam soon||As part of its efforts to ensure a green protocol for public places in Kottayam, the district administration will soon roll out a smart garbage monitoring system to coordinate and monitor waste disposal activities and projects of the various local bodies. According to District Collector P.K.Jayasree the first phase of the project will be implemented in 27 grama panchayats and all municipalities in the district. The system is being implemented with software developed by Keltron. . Meanwhile, the Collector has directed government staff in the district to maintain green protocol in offices and their houses with facilities for safe disposal of non-degradable waste including bio-waste. “Action should be taken for the disposal of non-degradable waste in collaboration with the Haritha Karma Sena of the local bodies where the office and house are located. The inorganic waste has to be handed over to the Haritha Karma Sena by paying the user fee,” the Collector said. As per official estimates, the authorities have collected 252.56 tonnes of waste including recyclable plastic and bottles over a period of nine months from the district. According to P. Ramesh, district coordinator, Haritha Keralam Mission, 52,241 kg of recyclable plastic, 1,76,975 kg of other waste and 23,345 kg of glass were removed during the period from January to September. The garbage was collected through 1,935 employees of the Haritha Karma Sena deployed by the various local bodies. Officials said the process of garbage collection has been a major source of income for the local bodies, which stood at Rs. 88.81 lakh over the past two months. Of this, the panchayats recorded a total income of Rs. 77.93 lakh while the income from municipalities stood at Rs. 10.87 lakh. Collection centres The district has 75 waste collection centres, 1,320 small waste collection centres and 16 resource recovery facilities to store the disposed materials till being handed over to the concerned agencies for processing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/smart-garbage-system-in-kottayam-soon/article37782074.ece
01 December 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Police launch drive to quell robbery scare||Amidst a massive scare wave that has swept Kottayam and its neighbouring townships, the District Police have launched an intensive drive to bust an alleged interstate gang of bandits. According to Shilpa Dyavaiah, District Police Chief, night patrolling, in association with residents associations and the public, has been intensified in view of the rising cases of thefts and theft attempts. As many as 50 police vehicles including 13 motorcycles and 25 vehicles took part in the patrolling mission carried out on Monday midnight. The drive comes amidst reports of a gang of dreaded bandits from Tamil Nadu (Kuruvas) landing in Kottayam. Ever since a video footage of three armed men moving under the cover of the dark emerged from Athirampuzha a few days ago, reports about them from different locations are flying thick and fast in social media. Robbery attempts Adding to the speculations, robbery attempts were reported from a handful of houses across the Athirampuzha and Adichira regions near Ettumanur. At the same time, an incident of thieves striking a locked house near Ponkunnam and decamping with cash and gold left the public even more worried. “Confronted by a flurry of messages on the robbers from different locations, the police are now spending time and resources on following up on them. The investigations, however, have so far failed to bring out anything solid on the presence of Kuruvas at these locations,” said a senior police officer. But with the eyewitnesses standing up to their claims, the police cannot afford to dismiss any leads. Meanwhile, officials have warned that these messages are likely to create law and order situations. For instance, the police had to intervene when a group of local people detained an old woman from Ayarkunnam on the suspicion of her being a member of the robbery gang. A similar incident was reported from Kadappur, near Kaduthuruthy, when the police took custody of an unidentified man and later let him off. Worst fear “Being hit by an armed gang of robbers is the worst fear of every household. Naturally, the people will be reacting sharply towards such people and unfortunately, migrant workers are likely to be mostly at the receiving end,” the officer added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/police-launch-drive-to-quell-robbery-scare/article37782082.ece
01 December 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Pilgrim footfall rises in Sabarimala||With the easing of pandemic-related restrictions and increase in daily slots for darshan, pilgrim footfall at Sabarimala has recorded a sharp surge with a corresponding growth in revenue collection. As per estimates, 1.66 lakh pilgrims visited the temple till Monday afternoon while the income stood around Rs. 14 crore. The total bookings under the virtual queue system till Sunday was 2.31 lakh. Sale of Appam According to Travancore Devaswom Board (TDB) officials, the sale of Appam and Aravana and the collections through donation boxes accounted for the majority of revenue. The plan to lease out the remaining stalls at the Sannidhanam too witnessed an improved response with the rise in pilgrim flow. The overall income during the two-month season last year, which was severely scaled back due to COVID-19, was just Rs. 21 crore. “Of the 216 stalls, 101 have been auctioned off, although at much lesser rates. A decision on auctioning off the remaining stalls will be made during the next meeting of the board,” says an official. The delay in leasing out the stalls had also affected devotees, with much lesser options for food and other necessary facilities. The TDB expects the revenue to make a quantum jump once the Government permits overnight stay at the Sannidhanam considering the physical hardship involved in forcing pilgrims to trek up and down the hillock within a few hours. As per official estimates, the hilltop has the space to accommodate about 17,000 persons at a given point of time, which also includes 500 rooms on rent for pilgrims. Next meeting “All eyes are now on the next meeting of the Government’s high-level committee. The board, however, is already going ahead with restoration of the rooms and the Neelimala-Marakkottam path in anticipation of Government nod,” says the official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pilgrim-footfall-rises-in-sabarimala/article37781800.ece
01 December 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Pala municipality directed to make toilets in working order||The State Human Rights Commission (SHRC) has directed the Pala municipal authorities to make the public toilet complexes under its ownership in working order. Considering a petition by P. Pothen, a native of Pala, commission chairman Antony Dominic recently ordered the municipality to submit a report after implementing the directive within two months. The municipal secretary should ensure that the toilets are kept clean, he said. The complainant had cited that the toilets in Pala town were not clean and hence would cause the spread of infectious diseases among the public. Earlier, the municipal secretary had submitted to the SHRC that toilets under the municipality in all areas other than along River Road and near Lalam Bridge were being maintained on a regular basis. The toilet under the Ponkunnam bridge on Riverview Road and the toilet near the Lalam bridge have been temporarily closed due to damage caused by anti-social elements. Steps had been taken by the engineering department to repair these toilets, the official said. The complainant, however, dismissed the claim of the municipality and pointed out that the report was incorrect. The commission said in its order that the municipality had the responsibility to protect toilets in a way that was beneficial to the public.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pala-municipality-directed-to-make-toilets-in-working-order/article37782073.ece
01 December 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Corpn. considering by-law for residents’ associations||The Kozhikode Corporation has decided to either frame a by-law for residents’ associations or to suggest it to the State Government. A meeting of the Corporation Council on Tuesday noted that there were no concrete laws that governed residents’ associations, which were an important link between common people and their representatives. The decision was made following a complaint raised by Palayam councillor P. Usha Devi, stating that a group of residents’ associations in her ward had formed a coordination committee and that only the leaders of the committee turned up for any meeting, making it difficult for the councillor to reach out to her voters personally. She also questioned the Corporation’s decision to renew the licence of the coordination committee despite her objections. The complaint led to discussions among councillors of all parties, but the council came to an understanding that the licences of residents’ associations could not depend on the consent of councillors. However, the council stressed the need for a common policy for residents’ associations. Another heated discussion was on an item on the agenda, revoking a contract to renovate the subway at Palayam which the Corporation had entered into in 2020. However, the Corporation later entered into another contract with an advertising committee to renovate the subway in such a way that the civic body did not have to invest in it. The person who took up the contract earlier has requested for a refund of his deposit money. Congress councillor K.C. Shobhita said there was something fishy about the deal in which an advertising company other than the one with which the Corporation had entered into a contract had set up boards near the subway for advertisement. She claimed that all three agencies were owned by the same person. The UDF councillors opposed the agenda, which was however passed through voting. Meanwhile, the Corporation’s decision to waive tax for a religious institution irked the Bharatiya Janta Party (BJP) councillors, who asked if the same facility was available for institutions belonging to all religions. The Deputy Mayor answered in the affirmative, but the issue led to arguments between the ruling front and opposition councillors for some time. Suspension of MPs The Council also passed an adjournment motion demanding the Centre to cancel the suspension of 12 MPs, including two Left Democratic Front MPs from Kerala, who were suspended amidst the discussion on the Pegasus controversy. NCP councillor N.C. Moyinkutty, who presented the motion, said the Speaker had snatched away the MPs’ rights and questioned why the Central Government feared discussions on the farm bills. BJP councillor T. Rinish spoke against the motion. Deputy Mayor C.P. Musafir Ahamed said the move was rare in the history of Parliament and a violation of democratic values while Ms Shobhita asked if the same democratic values were not applicable in the council hall. She was referring to the Mayor denying permission to adjournment motions proposed by her and BJP councillor Navya Haridas, following which the United Democratic Front (UDF) had staged a walkout at the beginning of the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/corpn-considering-by-law-for-residents-associations/article37782031.ece
01 December 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Big planes only after panel report||The Ministry of Civil Aviation will give approval for the operation of wide-bodied aircraft at Calicut International Airport only after a high-level committee constituted for the purpose submits its report. Sources said the high-level committee would look into the possibility of resumption of operating big aircraft after studying all aspects, including safety measures adopted at the airport. The operation of wide-bodied aircraft was suspended after the Air India Express that was part of the Vande Bharat Mission overran the tabletop runway last year. 2020 crash The Boeing 737-800 flight involved in the crash on August 7, 2020 claimed the lives of 21 persons, including the pilot and co-pilot, and left at least 100 passengers injured and many in critical condition. A fortnight ago, the Centre gave a favourable response to the request of the State Government to resume the operation of wide-bodied aircraft at the Calicut airport. Minister for Wakf and Haj Pilgrimage V. Abdurahiman had called upon Union Minister of Civil Aviation Jyotiraditya Scindia in Delhi. The Ministry of Minority Affairs had excluded the Calicut airport from the list of embarkation points for Haj. The Centre has reacted positively to the suggestion to include the Kannur airport in the list of embarkation points if it was impossible to consider the Calicut airport this year. About 80% of Haj pilgrims in the State relied on the Calicut airport. Meanwhile, M.P. Abdussamad Samadani, Lok Sabha member representing Malappuram constituency, inaugurated a march to the Parliament on Tuesday in protest against the alleged apathy of the Centre towards the Calicut airport. M.K. Raghavan and E.T. Mohammed Basheer, MPs, participated in the march.  The operation of wide-bodied aircraft was suspended after the Air India Express, part of Vande Bharat Mission, overran the runway||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nod-for-big-planes-at-calicut-only-after-panel-submits-report/article37782029.ece
01 December 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Digital marketing firm with million dollar turnover||Beating pandemic blues, a start-up team at the Kozhikode Government Cyberpark has built a digital marketing empire with million dollar annual turnover. Two aspiring entrepreneurs Jijin Mohan and Sarath Kumar scripted the success story through sheer determination and passion for creativity and marketing. The idea of setting up a performance marketing start-up took shape with the inception of CodeAce IT Solutions LLP. Five-member team “With an investment of Rs. 25-30 lakh, CodeAce initially started off as a five-member team at the Mobile 10x Acceleration Hub on the Cyberpark campus in Kozhikode in 2018,” says Mr. Mohan, founder and Chief Executive Officer (CEO). When the start-up was on its first lap of development, it was impacted by the first COVID-19 wave. “However, our business began to improve when work from home became the new policy,” he says. The start-up faced numerous challenges in setting up CodeAce IT Solutions. Starting an enterprise on a scale such as this was next to impossible, as Kozhikode was still not considered an advantageous location. Against odds Despite all odds, the company started working with full-fledged operations in September 2021. Today CodeAce has transformed itself by leaps and bounds from a small-scale company to an organisation that has the capability to employ over 50 employees. CodeAce recently opened its Phase II office at B1 of the Sahya Building in Cyberpark and now covers 3,200 sq ft. built-up space in total. “It is extremely stressful as Performance Marketing is not product-based. However, the determination and hard work of our team grew our firm into an enterprise that generates an annual turnover of one million dollars,” Mr. Mohan said. Services Currently, the company caters to clients in providing services such as Ad Tech Development, Internet Marketing, Content Network, Marketing Consulting, and diversified advertising strategies for various segments. “About 80% of its revenue is generated from SEO-based [search engine optimisation] projects,” Mr. Kumar, COO, said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/digital-marketing-duo-script-success-story/article37782023.ece
01 December 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Stage set for first theatre fest post-pandemic in Kozhikode||As Kozhikode gets ready for its first theatre festival post-pandemic, eight theatre groups are sweating it out to give their best performance at the Town Hall on December 3 and 4. “Shanthanormma”, the short play festival is being organised by Theatre Culture, a collective of theatre groups in the district, that is determined to wake the theatre circuit from its one-and-half-years of slumber. “Shanthanormma” is being organised in memory of theatre and film director A.Shanthakumar, who passed away not so long ago. The eight theatre groups that are part of the Theatre Culture Collective are Edakkad Nataka Gramam, Red Young ‘Manchadikkuru’, Vellimadukunnu, Natakam Pookkunna Kadu, Kozhikode Theatre Lovers, Repertory Theatre, Parambil, Actors Group Exploration, Creative Group, Mannur and Nadakathara from Pilathara. The plays, most of which are less than 30 minutes, being staged in the two-day festival are ‘Theen Muriyile Durantham’, ‘Award’, ‘Aro Oral’, ‘Museum of Love’, ‘Kathi’, ‘Cheru’, ‘Kothi’ and ‘Namukku Jeevitham Parayam’. The intervals between the plays will be filled with talks on theatre by noted theatre activists. ‘Aro Oral’, a play written by A.Shanthakumar, is being brought to stage by Theatre Lovers. A “theatre walk”, in which aged theatre activists of Kozhikode will be visited by the organisers at their homes and gifted, is also part of the festival. This will be held on December 2. The theatre festival will be opened by Suveeran, noted theatre and film director at 11 a.m. on December 3. Kerala Sangeetha Nataka Academy award winners Sreejith Poyilkavu, C.S. Meenakshi, O.P. Suresh and Aboobakker will be honoured on December 4 as part of A.Shanthakumar commemoration. Theatre and cinema personality Shaiju Anthikkad will deliver the A.Shanthakumar commemoration lecture on the same day. Family members of Shanthakumar are also expected to take part in the event, chairman of the organising committee, Baiju Merikkunnu, said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/stage-set-for-first-theatre-fest-post-pandemic-in-kozhikode/article37782034.ece
01 December 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Balan denies tribal fund diversion charges||CPI(M) Central Committee member and former Minister for Welfare of SC, ST and Backward Classes A.K. Balan here on Monday denied the allegations that he had diverted the tribal subplan funds to EMS Memorial Cooperative Hospital, Perinthalmanna, when he was the minister. Mr. Balan told mediapersons on Tuesday that the hospital had been given Rs. 11.5 crore from the Cooperative Department’s Plan fund. Those who raised allegations that he had siphoned off the tribal plan funds should apologise to the people for misleading them, he said. Mr. Balan said falsehoods were being widely circulated in connection with the recent malnutrition-related infant deaths in Attappady. Special package “The SC/ST Department did not divert a single rupee. A special treatment package for the tribespeople was planned by using Rs. 12.5 crore of Cooperative Department funds. When the department gave Rs. 11.5 crore, the hospital raised Rs. 1 crore,” Mr. Balan said.  He said EMS Memorial Hospital had played a significant role in checking infant mortality in Attappady. The Left Democratic Front (LDF) government, he said, had considerably improved the health status of the people of Attappady. There was no food shortage in the area. Provisions for two weeks were available in the community kitchens of Attappady, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/balan-denies-tribal-fund-diversion-charges/article37782129.ece
01 December 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Govt. denies assistance to honour killing victim’s widow||The State Government has denied financial aid to a woman whose husband had been murdered by her father and uncle in a case of “honour killing” at Thenkurissi near here. It is learned that the Government refused to help the woman on the ground that she had not been legally married to her slain husband. The Government had assured financial support to Haritha after her father Prabhu Kumar and her uncle Suresh Kumar hacked her husband Aneesh to death on Christmas day last year. Aneesh was killed because he belonged to a lower caste. Following assurances of financial aid from people’s representatives, including Ministers, Haritha had applied for help. But the Government refused to help saying that there was no proof of their marriage. The Crime Branch of Police that investigated the murder had described the incident as an honour killing. Aneesh had been the sole breadwinner of his family. Haritha, a fourth semester BBA student, remains the last support for Aneesh’s family. Sources said that Haritha and Aneesh could not register their marriage because Haritha’s family had withheld her documents, including her Aadhaar card.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/govt-denies-assistance-to-honour-killing-victims-widow/article37782130.ece
01 December 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||When a Nikah became a village festival||A parent at Vallapuzha near Pattambi converted the Nikah ceremony of his son into a festival of the village by conducting the wedding of three youngsters at the same venue on Sunday. Siddeek Yaram Kalathil held the marriage of his son Mohammed Fasil along with three others from the village by sponsoring the entire expenses. Mr. Siddeek took care of all marriage expenses, including the wedding dress, jewellery and marriage feast, for the three others. The marriage function became a festival of the Vallapuzha village. Syed Basheerali Shihab Thangal led the Nikah ceremony of the four grooms. Abdul Khadir Ahsani, preacher at Vallapuzha Yaram Masjid, presided over the function.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/when-a-nikah-became-a-village-festival/article37782132.ece
01 December 2021||SHANTHIPALAM (IDUKKI),KERALA||No peace of mind in these villages||The very name of the place Shanthipalam means the ‘bridge of peace’. Come monsoon, people in this village on the banks of the Periyar undergo turbulent days and nights. For over four decades, the people of the village have lost their peaceful life. “Imagine that at midnight you have to run off leaving everything. You do not know what will remain in the house. You are not even sure whether your house will be there or not,” says Rajesh, a resident at Shanthipalam. Tamil Nadu opened nine of the 13 spillway shutters of the Mullaperiyar dam between 2.30 a.m. and 8 a.m. on Tuesday after the water level reached the upper rule level of 142 ft at midnight. “Living with the fear of a dam burst and rushing away during the dead of night should be experienced to know it,” says P.N. Sebastian of Vallakadavu, the first residential area downstream of the Mullaperiyar dam. Unpredictable “A recorded announcement from the loudspeaker in a four-wheeler was made at 9 a.m. after releasing a high volume of water from 3.30 a.m. How long can we go like this? One cannot even enter the river, take bath or wash clothes as it is unpredictable when the water in the river will overflow and when the dam shutters will be raised or closed,” he adds. At short notice “This year, the spillway shutters of the Mullaperiyar dam have been opened over 10 times since the beginning of monsoon. Many a time, they opened the shutters at night, that too at short notice. Is there no one to consider the plight of people living downstream of the dam,” asks Santhosh, a resident of Cementpalam in the region. Things were even worse in August 2018. The water level was above the danger mark in the Periyar. At night, a loudspeaker announcement from the authorities asked the people to leave their houses as the Mullaperiyar dam would be opened soon. The main towns on the river bank include Vallakadavu, Vandiperiyar, Chappathu and Upputhara, in addition to the villages of farmers who have settled there for generations. “In 2019, Chappathu town was flooded and since then, the town will be flooded though not as intense as it was in 2018. I had to shift items from the shop many times. Now, I won’t do it. Let it go,” says a desperate Sijan, who runs an Ayurveda shop at Chappathu, where one of the longest agitations for a new dam at Mullaperiyar took place. Many say the century-old dam is not safe. But they don’t have a solution. Rehabilitation of hundreds of families from Vallakadavu to Ayyappancoil where the Periyar merges with the Idukki reservoir is a huge task.  T.N. opened nine of the 13 spillway shutters of the Mullaperiyar dam between 2.30 a.m. and 8 a.m. on Tuesday||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-peace-of-mind-in-these-villages/article37782057.ece
01 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||State to impart disaster management literacy||Disaster management literacy will be created in the State against the backdrop of significant changes in the monsoon rain and climate, Minister for Revenue K. Rajan has said. The Minister was speaking after visiting the Kerala State Emergency Operations Centre and reviewing the climate conditions on Tuesday. Focus areas The Minister said disaster management literacy would involve making people aware of the National Disaster Management Act, 2005; its rules; orders issued by the Government from time to time; directions; activities of the national and State disaster management authorities; disaster management mechanisms; and assistance available to those who affected by disaster. Talks on Disaster management literacy would be made part of the curriculum with the support of all sections of society, he said. The Revenue and Disaster Management Departments had begun holding talks with various agencies in connection with preparing the syllabus, Mr. Rajan said. Kerala was the first State in the country to take disaster-management activities to the panchayat level through concerted effort. Now, Revenue officials would be given scientific and practical training in this regard, the Minister said. Jawad not a threat Cyclone Jawad that was forming in the Bay of Bengal was not expected to be a threat to the State, but there was need to remain vigilant, the Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-to-impart-disaster-management-literacy/article37782184.ece
01 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Unarvu to celebrate day of persons with disabilities||Minister for Social Justice R. Bindu will inaugurate Unarvu 2021, the State-level International Day of Persons with Disabilities celebrations, at the VKN Menon Indoor Stadium, Thrissur, on Friday. The Minister will also give away the State Awards for Persons with Disabilities and announce two new projects named Shrestham and Suneethi on the occasion.  The department is also organising online competitions for the differently abled in connection with the celebrations. Competitions A story-telling competition, and an essay contest on the topic ‘COVID and health care of the differently abled’ are being held for all categories of the differently abled. A solo or group song contest, group dance, solo dance competition exclusively for the intellectually disabled, short film contest on the topic ‘Thanichalla ningal, oppamundu nammal’ (You are not alone, we are with you), and a painting contest on the same topic are the other events. The State Awards for Persons with Disabilities were announced on Tuesday. The awards include those for employers who employ the differently abled and institutions that work in areas related to the differently abled. The National Institute of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation in Thrissur has been selected as the best Government or private institution with accessibility for persons with disabilities. The Kerala Federation of the Blind Home for the Destitute Blind in Malappuram has been named the best rehabilitation centre for persons with disabilities that is maintained by a non-Governmental organisation. Best employees Sudheer M., Abdul Nessar N.M, and Saju P.S. have been named best employees with disabilities in Government sector. Rathish A.V., Zeenath T., and Muhammed Anvar K. were selected for the award in the private sector category. Magic Planet at Kazhakuttam and Ashraya Special School in Malappuram have bagged the award for best private employer for promoting differently abled employees. Mobility in Dystrophy Trust, Thrissur, and Devashrayam Charitable Society in Palakkad, have been selected in the category of best institution/NGO working for the interests of persons with disabilities. Gireesh K. of Unnikulam, Kozhikode, has been named best role model, while Kashyap Rams and Hanna Jauhara of Malappuram have bagged the award in the best creative child with disability category. Sumesh E. of Kasaragod and Lathika P.V. of Kannur have bagged the award in the best sportspersons with disability category. Arya Raj of Kozhikode has got the award in the outstanding national/international achiever from the State category.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/unarvu-to-celebrate-day-of-persons-with-disabilities/article37782191.ece
01 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Karuthal to aid Kudumbashree microenterprises||The Kudumbashree district mission has launched the second edition of its Karuthal campaign to lend a helping hand to its microenterprise (ME) schemes that continue to struggle following the COVID-19 pandemic. Interestingly, this promotion is intended to be carried out through the Kudumbashree network of 30,000 neighbourhood groups in 83 community development societies (CDSs). Karuthal was first launched after the lockdown last year to support ME units that were hit hard by the pandemic and subsequent restrictions. The second edition was launched on November 20 to provide a fresh thrust to marketing of products made by the Kudumbashree ME units. It also comes on the heels of a Kudumbashree online shopping festival to boost the sagging sale of products made by Kudumbashree entrepreneurs. Priced at Rs. 500 The Kudumbashree district mission hopes that at least one kit worth Rs. 500 of various commodities will be taken by one neighbourhood group. “We hope at least one member will come forward to buy the kit or some of them can pool money and share the products. There is also an option to pay the CDS out of the collective thrift fund of the group in instalments,” says an official. District panchayat president D. Suresh Kumar launched Karuthal in Kottukal grama panchayat, with 500 kits given to Kudumbashree neighbourhood groups on the occasion. It has been implemented in five other CDSs so far — Parassala, Chenkal, Maranalloor, Kanjiramkulam, and CDS 1 in the Thiruvananthapuram Corporation, says the Kudumbashree district official. A kit for Rs. 500 can include five to 10 products such as soaps and toiletries, snacks, curry powders, pickles, vegetables produced by Kudumbashree farming groups, masks and sanitisers, and seeds produced by the Kudumbashree. Customised The CDSs have been directed to customise the kits to include products made by local microenterprise units. The district mission hopes to extend Karuthal to at least 40 CDSs this week.  A kit can include five to 10 products from soaps to vegetables.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/karuthal-to-aid-kudumbashree-microenterprises/article37782183.ece
01 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Licence of 16 ration outlets suspended||A file adalat led by Food and Civil Supplies Minister G.R. Anil has decided to suspend the licences of 16 ration outlets in the district. The decision was taken at the adalat organised at the District Collectorate here on Monday after grave lapses were detected. The licensees were not in the State in some cases.  As many as 24 suspended licences were reinstated, while the licensees of 52 other outlets were provided more time to pay fines and apply for reinstatement. Similar district-level adalats have already been held in Kottayam, Ernakulam and Kozhikode. They are being organised in each district to take a final call on the nearly 700 ration shop licences temporarily suspended owing to various reasons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/licence-of-16-ration-outlets-suspended/article37782185.ece
01 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Kochi to host 11th Kerala Travel Mart||The 11th edition of Kerala Travel Mart (KTM), one of the largest congregations of the tourism industry in the country, will be held in Kochi in March 2022, giving an impetus to the efforts to revive the pandemic-hit tourism sector by attracting visitors from across the world. The event would be inaugurated at Grand Hyatt at Bolgatty, Kochi, on March 24, 2022, while the proceedings on the following three days would be held at Sagara and Samudrika Convention Centre in Willingdon Island, Tourism Minister P.A. Mohamed Riyas told a press conference here on Tuesday. Main themes The event would have caravan tourism and adventure tourism as the main themes, Mr. Riyas said. KTM 2022 will give greater prominence to domestic tourism which is steadily returning to the pre-pandemic levels. The meet anticipates the participation of no less than 1,500 buyers. V. Venu, Additional Chief Secretary (Tourism), said KTM was expected to rejuvenate tourism and bring a qualitative change in the sector. V.R. Krishna Teja, Director, Tourism, and Baby Mathew, president, KTM, were among those present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kochi-to-host-11th-kerala-travel-mart/article37782188.ece
01 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Two arrested for attempt to murder youth at Nedumangad||The Nedumangad police on Tuesday arrested two persons for allegedly attempting to murder a youth for assisting the police in identifying those involved in a clash. Those apprehended were identified as B. Haja, 22, of Nedumangad, and S. Ameer, 22, of Irinjayam. They have been arrested in connection with the attack on Arun of Koovakkudy, Vellanad, who was stabbed in his shoulder. The victim, who works in a flower shop on the KSRTC depot premises in Nedumangad, had shared information regarding a clash involving the duo in the area on November 23.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-arrested-for-attempt-to-murder-youth-at-nedumangad/article37782187.ece
01 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Ex-army man gets pension after 38 years||The resolute efforts made by the Veteran Cell of the Pangode Military Station have helped a 1983 veteran in receiving his service pension after over 38 years since his retirement from the Indian Army. Sudevan G., who had been discharged from service in April 1983 after being placed in the low medical category, was denied medical pension. He remained ineligible for any kind of pension or relief despite having eight years of service to his credit. Rs. 16,23,248 in arrears According to an official release, Mr. Sudevan had recently approached the Veteran Cell to seek financial assistance. The cell, identifying that he is eligible for the service element of pension as per the current policy, helped him obtain arrears of Rs. 16,23,248 for the past 38 years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ex-army-man-gets-pension-after-38-years/article37782189.ece
01 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Accident: youth succumbs to injuries||A 31-year-old man on Tuesday succumbed to the injuries he suffered in an accident at Pothencode two weeks ago. The police identified the deceased as Vivek Raj from Plamoodu, near Pothencode. He was injured in an accident near the Pothencode grama panchayat office on November 14. Vivek was headed for Karoor on his motorcycle along with his brother Anand Raj, 29, when a mini bus coming from the opposite side knocked down their vehicle. They were later admitted to a private hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/accident-youth-succumbs-to-injuries/article37782190.ece
01 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Fatalities cross 40,000||The State logged 4,723 new cases of COVID-19 on Tuesday when 59,524 samples were tested in the past 24 hours. The State’s cumulative COVID-19 burden, ever since the pandemic began, now stands at 51,41,814 cases. The official cumulative COVID-19 case fatality in the State crossed the 40,000 mark on Tuesday and now stands at 40,132, with Kerala adding 177 deaths to the official list of COVID deaths on the day. These include 19 deaths that occurred in the past few days and 158 deaths that have now been accepted as COVID deaths by the Government as per the new guidelines of the Centre and following the appeals filed by families. The total number of deaths added to the official COVID fatality list after the death reconciliation exercise as on Tuesday is 10,836. The State’s active case pool is declining rapidly and now has 43,663 patients. A total of 5,370 persons were reported to have recovered from the disease on the day. According to the Health Department, only 7.7 % of the active cases are currently admitted in hospitals or field hospitals such COVID first-line/second-line treatment centres. ICU occupancy Current ICU occupancy of COVID patients in both public and private hospitals now stands at 726. On Tuesday, the number of patients in the State newly admitted to hospitals with COVID was 245. Hospitalisations remain below the 5,000 mark and at present 4,706 persons are being treated for moderate or severe COVID in hospitals across the State. Among districts, Thiruvananthapuram reported the highest number of new cases at 755, followed by Kozhikode 718, Ernakulam 592, Thrissur 492, Kollam 355, Kannur 337, Kottayam 271, Malappuram 211, Wayanad 206, Idukki 199, Palakkad 189, Pathanamthitta 169, Alappuzha 150, and Kasaragod 79 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fatalities-cross-40000/article37782061.ece
01 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||DIGICOL to be launched today||Higher Education Minister R. Bindu will inaugurate DIGICOL, a dedicated server system being developed to extend the Moodle learning management system (LMS) across colleges, on Wednesday. The DIGICOL platform is jointly established by the Kerala State Higher Education Council and Digital University Kerala as part of the Let’s Go Digital campaign by the Government. The council has trained nearly 3,500 college teachers on using Moodle in various activities. As many as 35 colleges have also customised the LMS to suit their requirements.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/digicol-launch-today/article37782134.ece
01 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Fisherman drowns in sea||A 54-year-old fisherman drowned in the sea off the Pulluvila coast on Tuesday. The deceased was identified as Eugene of Pandakasala at Pulluvila. The incident occurred when he was engaged in fishing using a gill net. He could not swim to safety after he was swept away by strong waves. Despite being rushed to a Government hospital nearby by other fishermen, his life could not be saved, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fisherman-drowns-in-sea/article37782186.ece
01 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||KSRTC to resume services to T.N.||The Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) will resume services to Tamil Nadu from Wednesday. This follows the Tamil Nadu Government’s approval for resumption of bus services to Kerala. After inter-State services were stopped in the wake of COVID-19 spread, permission to restart services to Karnataka was obtained, but Tamil Nadu had not allowed the resumption of service. Meet of Ministers The permission from Tamil Nadu comes after Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan wrote to his Tamil Nadu counterpart M.K. Stalin. Also, Minister for Transport Antony Raju was set to meet his Tamil Nadu counterpart on December 6.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ksrtc-to-resume-services-to-tn/article37782054.ece
01 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Social duty to be part of textbooks||Textbooks will be revised by incorporating subjects connected to social responsibility, Minister for General Education V. Sivankutty has said. He was speaking after inaugurating a three-storey building, constructed at a cost of Rs. 1 crore, at O. Chandu Menon Smaraka Valiyamadavil Government Upper Primary School, Thalassery, on Tuesday. The Minister said the department would focus on further improving academic standards this year. The school, he said, was an example of how the public had helped in the development of a public education institution. The computer lab at the school was a model for the State, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/social-duty-to-be-part-of-textbooks/article37782062.ece
01 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Drive to spot those who are not vaccinated||The Health and Local Self-Government (LSG) Departments will conduct a joint campaign at the ward level to find those remaining unvaccinated and administer the vaccine to them. The decision has been taken as the Government is determined to zoom in on those refusing to be vaccinated. The LSG Department has issued a circular in this regard. The LSG core group is required to hold a meet with medical officers and plan the campaign for completing vaccination. Every ASHA worker would be asked to prepare a priority list of those who need to be vaccinated in the area under their jurisdiction. Camps will be organised with the LSG Department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/drive-to-spot-those-who-are-not-vaccinated/article37782065.ece
01 December 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Four more norovirus cases in Thrissur||Four more cases of norovirus were reported from a college in Thrissur on Tuesday. The infection was reported in four day scholars of the college. Though 57 cases have been reported from the college earlier, they were in college hostels. The Health Department has asked the college authorities to make the classes online. According to a preliminary investigation, the infection spread from the drinking water distributed in the hostel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/4-more-norovirus-cases-in-thrissur/article37782133.ece
01 December 2021||December 01 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Battle against AIDS||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/battle-against-aids/article37782071.ece
01 December 2021||December 01 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Post-lockdown activity||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/post-lockdown-activity/article37782153.ece
01 December 2021||December 01 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Festival time||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/festival-time/article37782128.ece
01 December 2021||December 01 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Storm of protest||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/storm-of-protest/article37782182.ece
01 December 2021||December 01 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Mobilising support||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mobilising-support/article37782194.ece
01 December 2021||December 01 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Ready for a spectacle||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ready-for-a-spectacle/article37782044.ece
01 December 2021||ALAPPUZHA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Panic over duck deaths in Alappuzha||Mass death of ducks at Purakkad in Alappuzha has triggered panic among farmers in the region. Joseph Cherian, a duck farmer, said on Tuesday that he had lost 9,000 ducks (around 70 days old) during the past week due to a mysterious illness. Animal Husbandry Department officials said samples of dead birds had been sent to the National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases (NIHSAD), Bhopal, for analyses. “The cause of the deaths is yet to be ascertained. We are awaiting the examination results, which is expected in the next 48 hours. All the dead ducks belonged to a single farmer. Other than the deaths at Purakkad, no such incidents have been reported from anywhere in the district,” said an official. Tests inconclusive The samples were sent to NIHSAD after tests conducted at the Avian Disease Diagnostic Laboratory at Thiruvalla and the State Institute for Animal Diseases remained inconclusive. Mr. Cherian was raising around 13,500 ducks, with an eye on the Christmas festive season, close to the outer bund of a paddy field when the birds started to fall sick and died last week. “I have immediately informed the matter to Animal Husbandry Department officials. Although veterinarians provided vaccines and medicines after examining the ducks, it failed to stop birds from falling sick,” Mr. Cherian said. He has shifted the unaffected and healthy ducks to his home nearby. Earlier this year, bird flu caused by the H5N8 strain of the Influenza A virus was detected from six places in Kuttanad at Nedumudi, Thakazhi, Pallippad, Karuvatta, and Kainakary in Alappuzha district and Neendoor in Kottayam district. More than 80,000 birds, mostly ducks, died or were culled in the two districts due to the outbreak. It was the third outbreak of avian influenza reported in the region in the last seven years. In 2014, thousands of ducks had perished or been culled following a bird flu outbreak caused by the H5N1 virus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/panic-over-duck-deaths-in-alappuzha/article37781627.ece
01 December 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Semi-naked man appears at virtual hearing, court fumes||The High Court of Karnataka on Tuesday ordered retrieval of electronic data of a videoconference hearing after a senior advocate complained that a man was visible semi-naked for about 20 minutes when the court was hearing PIL petitions related to the CD scandal involving former Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi. Senior advocate Indira Jaisingh, appearing for the woman who had lodged a sexual abuse complaint against Mr. Jarkiholi, pointed out to a Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Ritu Raj Awasthi and Justice Sachin Shankar Magadum that a semi-naked man was visible on the screen. “A person is appearing on videoconference without a vest, he is visible in this courtroom. Please take judicial notice of this. Let there be some decorum,” she said, while referring to a partially dressed man. She pointed out that the man, who had entered his name as “Sridhar Bhat”, “seems to be bathing during court proceedings”, as he was seen wiping his chest with a towel while watching the court proceedings. The man had disclosed his identity as “Sridhar Bhat SDMC Ujire”. Following this, the Chief Justice asked the court officer to verify the screen to identify the man. However, the court staff could not locate him on the screen as more than 80 persons had logged into the hearing through the online mode, as proceedings are being conducted in hybrid mode. “Who is he? Is he a lawyer?” the Chief Justice asked, while pointing out that neither the court officer nor the judges were able to see a man in that status. Ms. Jaisingh replied, “I don’t know who he is. But it is offensive to see a semi-naked man during court proceedings ...” ‘Contempt of court’ Complaining that his conduct amounts to “gross contempt of court”, Ms. Jaisingh said she would send the digital evidence to the court to take appropriate action against the man. Taking note of the incident, the Chief Justice directed the court staff to get the data of the videoconference hearing and issue notice to the person.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/semi-naked-man-appears-at-virtual-hearing-court-fumes/article37781628.ece
01 December 2021||CHENNAI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Madras HC miffed over official inaction||Madras High Court Acting Chief Justice Munishwar Nath Bhandari on Tuesday took serious note of numerous litigations filed in the court complaining of rampant encroachment of waterbodies across the State. Presiding over the first Division Bench with Justice P.D. Audikesavalu, he said the court would not be flooded with such cases if only the government officials concerned performed their duties diligently and initiated appropriate action. The observations were made during the hearing of a public interest litigation petition filed by a resident of Sothupakkam against the encroachment of a lake and a pond near the Melmaruvathur bus stand in Kancheepuram district. When a government counsel said that encroachments had occurred during the previous regime, and it had only been six months since the present government took charge, the ACJ quipped that the government may be new but the officials remained the same. PIL petition Later, the judges directed the High Court Registry to tag the PIL petition with similar cases in which the court had ordered the geo-referencing of satellite images of all the waterbodies in the State, and list them for hearing on Wednesday. In his affidavit, petitioner R. Raja said the Keezhmaruvathur lake and a pond abutting it had vanished since 2015 due to encroachment by shops, pay-and-use toilets and parking lots. He said the lake, which was otherwise used by farmers for irrigation, now remained only on revenue documents like the Adangal register. He complained that the encroachers polluted the groundwater by discharging sewage. The petitioner reportedly lodged a complaint over the encroachments with the Block Development Officer in August 2015 and followed it up periodically. No action But no action had been taken till date, he said. Referring to the State having enacted the Tamil Nadu Protection of Tanks and Eviction of Encroachment Act, 2007, under which the officials were obligated to keep the waterbodies free of encroachments, the petitioner said that in spite of the law, the officials did not initiate action.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hc-miffed-over-official-inaction-on-encroachment-of-waterbodies/article37781805.ece
01 December 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Forest officials suspect ‘poisoning’ of leopard||The forest officials are left with no clues about the death of a full-grown male leopard under mysterious conditions in the fields of a remote hamlet of Peddapanjani mandal of Punganur range. The leopard’s carcass was found amidst thorny bushes on Monday evening. A team of veterinarians from Sri Venkateswara Veterinary University performed a post-mortem on the animal on Tuesday and collected the viscera for forensic tests before cremating its carcass. Divisional Forest Officer (Chittoor West) S. Ravi Shankar visited the location along with officials from Punganur and Palamaner. “We found no external injury to the leopard and also no trace of any snare. The chances of poisoning the animal can’t be ruled out though there is plenty of water and game for it in the forests. The reason will be known only after the post-mortem report is prepared,” the DFO said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/forest-officials-suspect-poisoning-of-leopard/article37781691.ece
01 December 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Over 9,000 people opted for OTS’||The Jagananna Sampoorna Gruha Hakku project is getting good response in the district, said Collector Vivek Yadav. The scheme allows people who have been given house sites as part of various schemes to register their houses under one time settlement (OTS). So far 9,709 people had paid money as part of the OTS aggregating to Rs. 9.40 crore. The Collector said that a drive at the level of ward and village secretariat was launched to create awareness among beneficiaries. Under the scheme, Rs. 10,000 can be paid at rural level, Rs. 15,000 in urban local bodies and Rs. 20,000 in municipalities and municipal corporations. “Beneficiaries can get title deed of the house and all pending arrears will be waived off,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/over-9000-people-opted-for-ots/article37782208.ece
01 December 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Integrated check-post at Guntur railway station||An integrated police outpost set up by the Guntur Urban Police and South Central Railway, Guntur division at the New Guntur railway station was inaugurated on Tuesday. Divisional Railway Manager Mohana Raja, DIG Trivikram Varma and SP K. Arif Hafeez were present. The setting up of an Integrated Police Outpost at an abandoned stretch at the entrance of the railway station comes at the end of an outreach programme taken by Mr. Hafeez to connect with people, identify issues in crime-prone areas and initiate measures that can reduce crime and instil confidence among people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/integrated-check-post-at-guntur-railway-station/article37782207.ece
01 December 2021||HANUMAN JUNCTION,ANDHRA PRADESH||930 liquor bottles seized||The police arrested two persons, who were allegedly smuggling liquor in a car, and seized 930 liquor bottles, valued about Rs. 1.39 lakh, said Nuzvid DSP B. Srinivasulu. A team led by Hanuman Junction CI K. Satish, intercepted a car in the town and arrested Movva Prasad and Maddala Ramesh, and seized the liquor stocks on Tuesday, the DSP said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/930-liquor-bottles-seized/article37782203.ece
01 December 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Efficacy of vaccines against Omicron to be put to test||Efficacy of the currently available COVID-19 vaccines against Omicron, the new variant of concern, would be put to test at AIG Hospitals, Gachibowli, shortly. The results would be available around two weeks after launching the tests. Chairman of the corporate hospital, D. Nageshwar Reddy says a pseudo Omicron virus can be created in the lab. Blood samples containing antibodies were collected from people who underwent immunisation. The blood samples will be used to test against the pseudo virus. “It takes around two weeks to create the pseudo virus of Omicron. We will start the tests at AIG Hospitals shortly,” informs Dr Reddy. Efficacy of various vaccines will be tested. Such tests have been launched in a few countries such as South Africa. Dr Reddy says the effect of the vaccines against Omicron would be known within a fortnight. The vaccine efficacy tests at the hospital is believed to be helpful as samples are collected from people within the country, and antibodies are generated by vaccines available here. If the vaccines have a neutralising effect on the pseudo virus of Omicron, clinical proof, which takes around six months, may not be required. Is there a Plan B if the vaccines prove to be ineffective against the new variant? Dr Reddy says that mRNA vaccines can be changed in two months to make it effective against the new variant. The Omicron virus has created ripples across the world, but Dr Reddy points it could have something to do with the pandemic tapering off. When a pandemic tapers off, the virus becomes more infectious but less dangerous. “This was observed with the Spanish Flu. This is a natural evolutionary process for an organism to survive. Else, it gets killed,” he explains, adding that the current scientific evidence indicates that Omicron is more infectious than the Delta variant, but it seems to be mild in terms of disease with atypical symptoms such as muscle ache and running nose. No severe cases or deaths because of Omicron have yet been reported. “It is good news that Omicron is more infectious and less dangerous,” he says.  When a pandemic tapers off, the virus becomes more infectious but less dangerous. This was observed with the Spanish Flu. This is a natural evolutionary process for an organism to survive D. Nageshwar Reddy, Chairman, AIG Hospitals||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/efficacy-of-vaccines-against-omicron-to-be-put-to-test/article37781972.ece
01 December 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Hike in TSRTC bus fares likely soon||A bus fare hike, it appears, is inevitable with Telangana State Road Transport Corporation Chairman Bajireddy Goverdhan on Tuesday informing the media that the issue would be discussed with Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on December 1. A key factor behind the fare hike is the heavy losses the transport juggernaut has incurred due to spiralling diesel costs and the complete halting of bus services during the COVID-19 lockdown. Interestingly, fuelling speculation on when the fare hike would come into effect is Transport Minister Puvvada Ajay Kumar’s meeting on December 1 at Transport Bhavan, where he is scheduled to speak to the media. The Chairman was speaking to the media soon after the inauguration of the mega blood donation camp which was organised across TSRTC bus depots, stations and other facilities. In a separate development, TSRTC Managing Director V C Sajjanar, who also spoke to the media, maintained that there was no sale of properties of the transport juggernaut and that depots are not being closed. A fare hike was in the offing since the beginning of November. The TSRTC had prepared proposals to increase ticket fare by 25 paise per kilometre to 30 paise per km. An increase of 25 paise per km for Palle Velugu and City Ordinary Buses was proposed, and an increase of 30 paise for Metro Express and Metro Deluxe was proposed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hike-in-tsrtc-bus-fares-likely-soon/article37781969.ece
01 December 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Panchayats paralysed due to diversion of funds: JSP||Jana Sena Party Political Affairs Committee Chairman Nadendla Manohar on Tuesday alleged that local body governance had been left paralysed due to the State government diverting funds granted to panchayats by the 15th and 16th Finance Commissions. Mr. Manohar concluded his three-day visit to East Godavari district aimed at strengthening the party and lending impetus to campaigns for better roads in the region. Addressing party members at Rajole in Konaseema region, Mr. Manohar has said that the newly-elected sarpanches would not be able to address any grievances or face the public. “In East Godavari alone, Rs. 230 crore of grant released by the 15th and 16th Finance Commissions has been diverted,” he said. Accompanied by East Godavari JSP president Kandula Durgesh, he participated in Sramadanam of a road in Rajoleand went on a padayatra to protest against bad roads.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/panchayats-paralysed-due-to-diversion-of-funds-jsp/article37782143.ece
01 December 2021||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Govt. did not seek Central aid for solar pumps’||The State government has not demanded the installation of standalone solar pumps under the Ministry of New and Renewable Energy (MNRE) PM-KUSUM Scheme, but the MNRE had sanctioned the solarisation of 50,000 existing grid-connected pumps which is under implementation, Minister of New and Renewable Energy and Power R.K. Singh said on Tuesday in a reply to Rajya Sabha member T.G. Venkatesh. The Union Minister said that for the installation of standalone solar pumps and solarisation of existing grid-connected pumps under PM-KUSUM scheme, Central financial assistance up to 30% of the benchmark cost is provided, while the State government provides a subsidy of 30% and the remaining 40% cost is met by the farmer. The availability of low-cost financing for farmers and State share of funds is a challenge in the implementation of the PM-KUSUM Scheme, he pointed out and said it was is being addressed through arranging concessional financing from multilateral and bilateral agencies through convergence with other government schemes. The Ministry of Agriculture had included Component-B and Component-C of the PM-KUSUM Scheme under the Agriculture Infrastructure Fund Scheme. The RBI too included all three components under priority sector lending.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-did-not-seek-central-assistance-for-solar-pumps/article37781690.ece
01 December 2021||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Farmers resume march as rains abate||After two days of break, farmers from Amaravati resumed their ‘court-to-temple’ march to Tirupati from Ambapur village in SPSR Nellore district on Tuesday. “Save Amaravati, save Andhra Pradesh” slogans rented the air as the march meandered through the dusty lanes of villages en route as local people extended a warm greeting to the farmers. “We had a harrowing experience in the last two days due to unabated rains,” said Amaravati Parirakshana Samiti convenor A. Siva Reddy while leading the long march up to South Marupuru village, covering a distance of 11 km. They were forced to take away the vehicles carrying religious symbols by the police on the pretext that it was not permitted as per the guidelines. Police also discouraged people offering them accommodation and refreshments en route, he alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/farmers-resume-march-as-rains-abate/article37781693.ece
01 December 2021||NEW DELHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||ED attaches 52 properties in AgriGold ponzi scheme case||The Enforcement Directorate has attached 52 immovable assets worth Rs. 32.37 crore in connection with the AgriGold ponzi scheme fraud case, taking the value of total attachments so far to Rs. 4,141.68 crore. The accused persons had collected about Rs. 6,380 crore from more than 32 lakh investors, through hundreds of commission agents. The newly attached properties are located in different parts of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. Multiple FIRs The Enforcement Directorate probe is based on the multiple First Information Reports (FIRs) lodged in Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Karnataka. The AgriGold Group led by Avva Venkata Rama Rao, ran the scheme in the guise of real estate business, for which more than 130 companies were floated, the agency alleged. The group allegedly collected deposits from people on the promise of providing developed plots and farm lands or withdrawal at a high rate of return on maturity/pre-term. The deposit agreements did not mention either the actual market value of the land, its location, boundaries or any survey number or layout permissions. The investors neither got plots nor could recover their deposits.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ed-attaches-52-properties-in-agri-gold-ponzi-scheme-case/article37781448.ece
01 December 2021||NUZVID,ANDHRA PRADESH||4,161 seats filled up in RGUKT||The demand for admissions into Rajiv Gandhi University of Knowledge Technologies (RGUKT) is high and 4,161 seats were filled up in the ongoing counselling so far, said University Chancellor K.C. Reddy. Counselling process began on November 24, for admissions in R.K. Valley, Nuzvid, Srikakulam and Ongole campuses, and in the first seven days, candidates who secured up to 6,000 ranks were called for interviews. Counselling would be conducted up to December 2, Prof. Reddy said. Admissions into special category (Sports, NCC, Physically Handicapped and Children of Armed Personnel) and NRI quots seats would be conducted in the first week of December, said Convener (Admissions) Prof. S.S.S.V. Gopala Raju.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/4161-seats-filled-up-in-rgukt/article37782147.ece
01 December 2021||Rajamahendravaram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Study on Kadiyam nurseries begins||The Floriculture Research Directorate (FRD) in Pune has kick-started a study on management of diseases and flower crops in nurseries in Kadiyam area on the banks of river Godavari in East Godavari district. The study will also diagnose the plant diseases and nursery crops. Responding to a question by Rajamahendravaram MP Margani Bharat in the Lok Sabha on Tuesday, the Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare has confirmed that it would transfer promising varieties and technologies to the Kadiyam nurseries. The technologies would be transferred under the National Agriculture Research System (NARS), the ministry said. The Ministry had spent Rs. 2.83 crore to provide infrastructure for the wholesale flower market in Kadiyam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/study-on-kadiyam-nurseries-begins/article37782144.ece
01 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kerala to act against vaccine hesitancy||The State Government cannot give free COVID-19 treatment to those who do not cooperate with the State’s prevention and containment activities, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said. At a COVID-19 review meeting held here on Tuesday, he said the Government would not be obliged to pick up the tab for the treatment of unvaccinated individuals who became COVID positive. He insisted that those who are remaining unvaccinated at present citing reasons such as serious diseases or allergies should be able to produce a medical certificate issued by a government doctor. Among teachers who are unvaccinated, those who are unable to take the vaccine because of any medical issues, will have to produce a medical certificate issued by a government doctor. Others should take the vaccine or be prepared to do RT-PCR tests every week and submit the results. Protection of children These stringent measures have become necessary for the protection of children and college students, he said. The same conditions will be applicable to those unvaccinated individuals who are working in offices and other public places. Mr. Vijayan directed that the vigil against the new virus variant, Omicron, be stepped up and that surveillance be strengthened in airports. All COVID protocols should be followed strictly. He directed that the representatives of local bodies take the lead in finding those who were remaining unvaccinated. He directed that a special campaign be held from December 1 to 15 to complete the vaccination. Mr. Vijayan said that differently abled children would soon be given permission to go to school. No change in school hours It has been decided not to extend the current school hours. The meeting decided not to allow any more relaxations in civil life in the light of the emerging situation involving COVID.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kerala-to-act-against-vaccine-hesitancy/article37781635.ece
01 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Fresh row as KPCC ‘moves’ against Chandy, Chennithala||The factional feud in the Congress in Kerala seems to be inching towards a turning point. The Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) has reportedly moved against senior leaders Oommen Chandy and Ramesh Chennithala for allegedly bringing intra-party disputes into the United Democratic Front (UDF) fold. The leaders of the well-embedded ‘A’ and ‘I’ groups have arguably generated “politically disadvantageous” headlines by “staying away” from the UDF conclave on Monday. The KPCC believes that Mr. Chandy and Mr. Chennithala have used the UDF as a platform to project their protest against the incumbent leadership. It plans to petition the All India Congress Committee (AICC) against their conduct. Any action on the part of the AICC would signal a fall from grace for the veterans. A party insider says a public censure is unlikely given the stature of the leaders. But even a personal reproach would be a watershed moment for them. It could relegate the influential group leaders to the status of troublemakers. Notably, Mr. Chandy’s complaint that KPCC president K. Sudhakaran and Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan had installed their candidates in key party positions ahead of the organisational polls had received a chilly reception from the Congress high command. The factions are also “resentful” that the KPCC leadership has “halted the membership drive to stack the decks in its favour” in the party polls in April 2021.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/fresh-row-as-kpcc-moves-against-chandy-chennithala/article37781633.ece
01 December 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Dy. CM offers ‘vastram’ at Tiruchanur||Deputy Chief Minister P. Pushpa Srivani, holding the portfolio of tribal welfare, offered silk ‘vastram’ on behalf of the State government to the Tiruchanur Sri Padmavathi Ammavari temple here on Tuesday, ahead of the ensuing Karthika Brahmotsavams. The Minister, carrying the vastram, arrived at the temple in a procession and was formally received at the main entrance by the TTD delegation led by Joint Executive Officer V. Veerabrahmam. After presenting the clothes meant to be used during the nine-day festival, the Minister offered prayers to the presiding deity of Goddess Padmavathi. Deputy Executive Officer Kasturi Bai was also present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/dy-cm-offers-vastram-at-tiruchanur/article37781695.ece
01 December 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tirupati bids adieu to ‘Dollar’ Seshadri||The temple city bid adieu on Tuesday to Pala Seshadri, popularly known as ‘Dollar’ Seshadri, who had breathed his last on Monday after having rendered service at the abode of Lord Venkateswara at Tirumala for over four decades. As the mortal remains arrived from Visakhapatnam around midnight, people of Tirupati started visiting his Sarojini Devi layout residence right from dawn. The entire street was barricaded and queue lines were erected well in advance, anticipating the visit of people and VIPs. Several TTD employees rushed to his residence to pay tributes. Representatives from religious institutions such as Sri Ahobila Mutt and Srimad Andavan Ashramam offered floral respects to the departed soul. Justice N.V. Ramana, Chief Justice of India, who came all the way from New Delhi, expressed shock over Seshadri’s demise. “It is unbelievable that Officer on Special Duty Sri Seshadri, who had served at His holy feet, is no more. His demise has disturbed many, including me,” he said. Recalling his association with him for over 25 years, the CJI said Seshadri had never cared for his health while on duty from dawn to night, adding, “As he had wished, he breathed his last while in Sri Venkateswara’s service.” He hoped the TTD would publish the book written by Sri Seshadri and make it available for posterity. Chittoor district judges Y.V.S.B.G. Parthasaradhi and Veera Raju accompanied him. Deputy Chief Minister K. Narayanaswamy, and MLAs B. Karunakar Reddy and Ch. Bhaskar Reddy paid tributes. From the TTD, its Chairman Y.V. Subba Reddy, Executive Officer K.S. Jawahar Reddy, Additional Executive Officer A.V. Dharma Reddy, and board member Pokala Ashok Kumar, and Tamil Nadu Local Advisory Committee chairman A.J. Sekhar Reddy were among those who paid tributes Seshadri. Several officials and former bureaucrats made a beeline for his residence to pay homage, in view of their decades-old association with Seshadri during their stints in the TTD. Adviser to government Ajeya Kallam, former Chief Secretary L.V. Subrahmanyam (both former Executive Officers of the TTD), and former Joint Executive Officers P. Balasubramanyam and K.S. Srinivasa Raju paid their tributes. Later, Mr. Karunakar Reddy, Mr. Bhaskar Reddy, and Mr. Dharma Reddy turned pallbearers and carried the mortal remains of Seshadri up to the cremation ground.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tirupati-bids-adieu-to-dollar-seshadri/article37782118.ece
01 December 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sri Sri’s book now available in pocket size||‘Mahaprasthanam’, a popular revolutionary work considered the magnum opus of writer Sri Sri, is now available in the form of a pocket-size book at an affordable cost. The book was formally released by US-based nonagenarian writer Velcheru Narayana Rao and Sahitya Akademi award winning poet K. Siva Reddy on Tuesday, commemorating the 71st anniversary of the literary work. Ahead of its release, the portrait of Sri Sri was carried on a palanquin on the streets as a symbol of reverence, in which Tirupati MLA B. Karunakar Reddy, Mayor R. Sireesha, Centre for Rayalaseema Studies Chairman Bhuman and others participated. Led by littérateurs, academicians and social activists, youth took part in the procession by chanting ‘Padandi munduku padandi munduku...’, a tag line from the work. Receiving the first copy, Mr. Karunakar Reddy called the book ‘Jebulo Toofan’ (cyclone in the pocket), as it was meant to awaken social consciousness and promote the thought of selfless living among the youth.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sri-sris-book-now-available-in-pocket-size/article37781694.ece
01 December 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Plea to fill vacant posts in universities||Akhil Bharatiya Rashtriya Shaikshik Mahasangh has demanded that the State, Central universities, deemed universities and colleges fill the vacant posts and issue notification to this effect by December 31. Mahasangh’s State convener Y.V. Rami Reddy made the demand on Tuesday, following the directive by the University Grants Commission Secretary Rajnish Jain to the State governments. Around 40 to 50% of the posts are lying vacant in various universities, Prof. Reddy said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/plea-to-fill-vacant-posts-in-universities/article37781696.ece
01 December 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vijaya Sai urges Centre to give Rs. 1,000 cr. as flood relief to State||The YSR Congress Party (YSRCP) Rajya Sabha member V. Vijaya Sai Reddy has urged the Central government to provide financial assistance to Andhra Pradesh for the loss caused due to heavy rains and floods. Raising the issue in the Rajya Sabha during the zero hour on Tuesday, Mr. Vijaya Sai Reddy said that the Union government was requested to provide a minimum relief package of Rs. 1,000 crore to the State. The MP said that heavy rains triggered by a depression over the Bay of Bengal on November 18 led to flash floods and wreaked havoc in Rayalaseema and South Coastal districts of Andhra Pradesh. The unprecedented rains and floods caused breaches to reservoirs thereby inundating villages and towns. Roads, bridges and railway tracks were extensively damaged. Electricity utilities had been uprooted. Houses were either washed away or inundated in floodwaters rendering thousands of people homeless. So far, 44 people died, 16 were reported missing and about 70,000 persons had been displaced from their homes, he said. Farmers suffered heavy losses since the crops that were ready for harvest were destroyed. It was estimated that about 1.85 lakh hectares of agriculture and horticulture crops had been damaged. According to preliminary estimates, the loss caused to the crops and infrastructure had been put at Rs. 6,054 crore. Despite the sincere efforts of the Andhra Pradesh government in conducting rescue operations and undertaking relief measures in the affected areas, the current situation on the ground needed Centre’s assistance. “In this hour of crisis, it is imperative that the Union Government step in to provide much-needed assistance to see that the State rises up again,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vijaya-sai-urges-centre-to-give-rs-1000-cr-as-flood-relief-to-state/article37782123.ece
01 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Three more succumb to COVID-19||The State reported three more deaths due to COVID-19 and 184 infections in the 24 hours ending Tuesday morning. The cumulative tally and toll reached 20,72,909 and 14,442 respectively. The number of recoveries increased to 20,56,318 with 134 more patients recovering in the past day. The recovery rate remains at 99.20%. The number of active cases slightly increased to 2,149. The test positivity rate of the 25,925 samples tested in the past day was 0.71% and that of the 3.041 crore samples tested was 6.81%. Each of the three deaths reported in the past day was in Chittoor, Krishna and West Godavari. Krishna district also reported the highest single-day tally of 34 cases in the past day. It was followed by Chittoor (30), Visakhapatnam (26), West Godavari (21), East Godavari (17), Guntur (15), Srikakulam (10), Anantapur (9), Prakasam (8), Nellore (7), Kadapa (3), Kurnool (3) and Vizianagaram (1). The district tallies are as follows: East Godavari (2,94,682), Chittoor (2,48,014), West Godavari (1,79,619), Guntur (1,78,865), Visakhapatnam (1,58,404), Anantapur (1,58,034), Nellore (1,46,858), Prakasam (1,38,702), Kurnool (1,24,197), Srikakulam (1,23,440), Krishna (1,20,272), Kadapa (1,15,874) and Vizianagaram (83,053).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/three-more-succumb-to-covid-19/article37782114.ece
01 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Follow basic policing for success, CP tells officers||Police Commissioner B. Srinivasulu, who retired on Tuesday, advised young police officers to follow basic policing for success. During a ceremonial parade organised at the Armed Reserve Grounds here, Mr. Srinivasulu, who joined the Police Department as a DSP and served in various capacities in erstwhile Andhra Pradesh, said young officers should do basic policing such as allotting beats, patrolling, visible policing, regular monitoring of law and order, maintaining vigil on criminals, visiting police stations and reviewing investigation of cases to find success. “I am very fortunate to serve people as a police officer and happy to work for about five years as Vijayawada Police commissioner. Police extended good services during the pandemic,” he said. He said that he was satisfied with his 35 years of service. He worked in different wings, including Intelligence and anti-naxal operations. Deputy Commissioners of Police (DCPs) V. Harshavardhan Raju, D. Mary Prasanthi, B. Udaya Rani, Babu Rao, Additional DCPs, ACPs and other officers were among those who bid farewell to Mr. Srinivasulu. Meanwhile, DIG (Technical Services) G. Pala Raju took over as in-charge Commissioner of Police (CP).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/follow-basic-policing-for-success-cp-tells-officers/article37782210.ece
01 December 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||UBI to extend loans to flood victims||Union Bank of India (UBI) has prepared an action plan of extending loans worth Rs. 5,000 crore for flood victims, including farmers, small traders affected by COVID-19 and medium, small and micro enterprises (MSMEs). Addressing a press conference here on Tuesday, UBI Chief General Manager V. Brahmananda Reddy said the action plan was prepared to meet the requirements and needs of a cross section of society that suffered losses due to COVID-19 pandemic and floods. Under the action plan, loans worth Rs. 1,000 crore would be disbursed under the Kisan Tatkal scheme. Farmers can avail 50% of crop loan or up to Rs. 50,000 loan instantly without any collateral security or guarantee. The bank would also give loans worth Rs. 1,500 crore to self-help groups (SHGs), and Rs. 2,000 crore to MSMEs as an additional instant plan to recover from the pandemic impact. The self-help DWCRA groups would get maximum loan of Rs. 20 lakh and SHGs in urban areas would get Rs. 10 lakh, he said. Mr. Brahmananda Reddy said the bank had identified 15,800 eligible persons, who had already taken housing loans and were regularly paying the instalments, for an additional loan of Rs. 15 lakh without any additional collateral. “Farmers, women, MSMEs and other sections of people that suffered losses in the heavy rain and floods in Kadapa, Anantapur, Chittoor and Nellore districts, badly needed financial help to recover from the economic disaster, he said. The MSMEs that suffered heavy loss during the pandemic would get instant loans under the COVID Emergency Credit scheme. This action plan would surely help them recover from distress,” he said. Union Bank of India Deputy General Managers K. Srinivasulu Reddy, Vege Ramesh and N. Srinivas Rao were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ubi-to-extend-loans-to-flood-victims/article37782121.ece
01 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||NTR health varsity staff protest ‘transfer’ of funds||Employees of Dr. NTR University of Health Sciences staged a protest on the university premises on Tuesday opposing the “transfer” of funds from the university to a corporation established by the State government. Led by the JAC, employees boycotted duties and took out a rally on the university premises. Speaking to reporters later, JAC representatives said they had to resort to protest as the higher officials ignored their pleas against the transfer of funds from the university. They said they would soon approach the Governor and submit a memorandum expressing their concern. “The government wants to transfer funds to a corporation established just 18 months ago. We do not have any issue with the government, but have doubts over the credibility of the corporation whose activities are not known,” said an employee. The employees said that they would boycott the university convocation slated to be organised by December 8. Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan is supposed to attend the convocation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ntr-health-varsity-staff-protest-transfer-of-funds/article37782205.ece
01 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man sentenced to two-day jail term for not looking after ailing father||A man was sentenced to a two-day jail term and a fine of Rs. 5,000 was imposed on him by the Senior Citizens Tribunal at the Sub-Collector's office on Tuesday for ignoring the tribunal’s orders and not taking care of his father. Tribunal chairman and Vijayawada Sub-Collector G.S.S. Praveen Chand took up 33 complaints registered by senior citizens with the tribunal. Responding to a complaint by an ailing father, who was not given shelter by one of his two sons as directed by the tribunal, Mr. Praveen Chand sentenced the son to a two-day jail term under Section 24(1) of the Maintenance and Welfare of Parents and Senior Citizens Act. The son was handed over to the district jail superintendent by the Ibrahimpatnam station house officer. In another case, the Kankipadu sub-registrar was asked to revoke a property document as the complainant was forced to sign on it by his son.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-sentenced-to-two-day-jail-term-for-not-looking-after-ailing-father/article37782206.ece
01 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||3,900 dengue cases in State this year||The State witnessed over 69% rise in dengue cases this year compared to the previous year. As many as 3,900 cases of dengue were reported till November 21 against 925 last year, according to the response on vector-borne diseases in the country by the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare to the Rajya Sabha on Tuesday. No deaths due to dengue were reported in the State, according to the response. However, 5,286 dengue cases were reported in 2019 and 4,011 in 2018. The State also reported 588 cases of chikungunya against 318 in 2020, 832 in 2019 and 622 in 2018. Only 1,163 cases of malaria were reported in the State against 2,027 in 2020. In 2019 and 2018, 3,104 and 6,040 cases respectively were reported.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/3900-dengue-cases-in-state-this-year/article37782116.ece
01 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||APSACS alerts people living with HIV on Omicron||The Andhra Pradesh State AIDS Control Society has cautioned people living with HIV on the new COVID variant, Omicron, and asked them to follow safety precautions. The society has advised the 1,92,390 people living with HIV in the State to take COVID-19 vaccination, said Additional Project Director N. Uma Sundari. “As per the guidelines issued by WHO, we have given safety precautions to all Anti-Retroviral Treatment (ART) centres, Integrated Counselling and Testing Centres and Community Based Screening Centres in the State on Omicron,” said Dr. Uma Sundari. “People living with AIDS are requested avoid journeys, take medicines regularly, use face shields and masks compulsorily,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/apsacs-alerts-people-living-with-hiv-on-omicron/article37781689.ece
01 December 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vidya Deevena a publicity stunt: TDP||TDP Polit Bureau member and MLA Nimmala Ramanaidu has described the Jagananna Vidya Deevena scheme as “yet another publicity stunt.” “The scheme lacks sincerity in meeting the educational needs of the students. By imposing many conditions for eligibility, the government is depriving over 5 lakh students of the fee reimbursement benefit,” Mr. Ramanaidu alleged while addressing the media on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vidya-deevena-a-publicity-stunt-tdp/article37782119.ece
01 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||IndiaSkills competitions to begin in city today||The IndiaSkills-2021 Regional Competitions – South, being organised by the National Skill Development Corporation (NSDC), will begin in the city on Wednesday. At a pre-event conference held, here, on Tuesday evening, Challa Madhusudhana Reddy, Adviser to the Government (APSSIDC – Skill Development and Training), said that over 400 participants from five States – Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Telangana – would showcase their skills during the competitions to be held in over 50 disciplines. The winners of the regional competitions would be eligible to participate in the IndiaSkills Nationals and those who qualify in those competitions would get an entry into the WorldSkills Competitions in which 85 member nations would participate. APSSDC Managing Director N. Bangara Raju said that this was for the first time that the State was hosting the IndiaSkills Regional Competitions. The young participants, aged between 19 and 24 years, would compete in a range of skills including painting and decorating, mobile robotics, patisserie and confectionery, health and social care, automobile technology, plumbing and heating, beauty therapy, renewable energy, visual merchandising, cyber security and welding. Koteswara Reddy of Hyderabad and Rahul from Haryana, who had participated in the WorldSkills competitions in the past, recalled how the regional and national-level competitions helped them in boosting their confidence. Mr. Reddy said that he was training a 15-member team for the competitions. Konduru Ajay Reddy, Chairman, APSSDC, Arun Chandel, Senior Head of SMIS Division, Central Ministries and WorldSkills India were present. A brochure was released on the occasion. The skill competitions will be held at 11 partner institutes in the city and the district. The opening ceremony of the competitions will be held at the AU Convention Centre on Beach Road on December 1 in which Minister for Industries Commerce, IT and Skill Development Mekapati Goutham Reddy would attend as the chief guest. The closing ceremony will be held at the same venue on December 4. Meanwhile, awareness programmes on skill development were conducted jointly by the Andhra Pradesh Skill Development Corporation (APSDC) and Gayatri Vidya Parishad (GVP) College of Degree and PG courses, Rushikonda, on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/indiaskills-competitions-to-begin-in-city-today/article37782217.ece
01 December 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Big role for Vizag in tapping IT potential, says Union Minister||Union Minister of State for Electronics, IT, Skill Development and Entrepreneurship Rajiv Chandrasekhar has said that there is huge potential for growth in the ‘virtual world’ (IT sector) and Visakhapatnam, with its strategic location on the east coast, can play a vital role in this regard. The Union Minister inaugurated the NASSCOM Centre of Excellence - IoT and AI, virtually from New Delhi, along with Industries Minister Mekapati Gowtham Reddy, at Andhra University here on Tuesday. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Chandrasekhar said Visakhapatnam was one of the four centres in India, where Centres of Excellence for IoT and AI were established. The first was established in Bengaluru four years ago, and it was followed by one in Gurgaon (Haryana), Gandhinagar, and now Visakhapatnam. He also spoke about the natural beauty of the beaches in Visakhapatnam, the strong presence of the pharma industry and the AP Medtech Zone (AMTZ), which, he said, had become a role model for other such zones in the country. Thrust areas Mr. Goutham Reddy said nine areas were identified for development and they included AI; Machine Learning; Robotic process automation; H Computing (an extension of Cloud Computing); Cyber Security; BlockChain; and Quantum Computing. He said the State government was for creating new frontiers in technology, and said a pilot project was being done on ‘Work From Home’. He described AMTZ as a “Kohinoor in the crown of A.P.” NASSCOM president Debjani Ghosh spoke. Earlier, in his inaugural address, Andhra University Vice-Chancellor P.V.G.D. Prasad Reddy spoke on the strengths of the university in achieving the objectives of the CoE. He explained that AU would also set up centres for promotion of marine products and Food Technology Lab in the near future.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/big-role-for-vizag-in-tapping-it-potential-says-union-minister/article37782125.ece
01 December 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP has given prominent place for BCs: Veerraju||The BJP has accorded a prominent place to the BCs not only in the OBC Morcha but also in the State BJP committee, says party State president Somu Veerraju. Speaking at the OBC Morcha State executive meeting here on Tuesday, Mr. Veerraju said the OBC Morcha in the State was doing a good job. “The BJP is the only party that is not involved in dynastic politics. All the regional parties are indulging in family politics,” he said. “The Congress has been running dynastic politics for generations to keep power in the hands of one family. People have lost faith in the political system. They are voting for one party or the other as they have no other alternative,” he observed. “The person who had been at the helm for five years post bifurcation built temporary constructions and left. The person helming the State now says that Visakhapatnam will develop only if it is made the capital. The BJP can develop Visakhapatnam without making it the capital,” Mr. Veerraju said. The BJP was committed to retaining Amaravati as the capital of the State, he said. “We will go to the people, explain them the facts, win over their trust, and register victory in the 2024 elections in the State,” he said. He alleged that the YSRCP government failed to repair the damaged roads. The Centre had sanctioned NREGS funds of Rs. 10,000 crore for laying roads from Visakhapatnam to Srikakulam, Mr. Veerraju said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bjp-has-given-prominent-place-for-bcs-veerraju/article37782214.ece
01 December 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Low pressure likely to intensify||A low pressure lay over south Thailand and neighbourhood on Tuesday morning. It is likely to emerge into the Andaman Sea during the next 12 hours. Thereafter, it is likely to move west-northwestwards and concentrate into a depression over south-east and adjoining east-central Bay of Bengal by December 2, according to a bulletin issued by the Cyclone Warning Centre here. It is likely to intensify into a cyclonic storm over central parts of Bay of Bengal during the subsequent 24 hours. Subsequently, it is likely to move north-westwards, intensify further and reach North Andhra Pradesh – Odisha coasts around December 4 morning. Under its influence, heavy to very heavy rainfall is likely at one or two places in Srikakulam and Vizianagaram districts, and heavy rain is very likely at one or two places in Visakhapatnam district on December 3. Very heavy rainfall is likely at one or two places in all the three districts till December 5 morning. Squally wind, with speed reaching 45 to 55 kmph, gusting to 65 kmph, is likely over north coastal A.P. on December 3 and gales, with speed reaching 70 to 80 kmph, gusting to 90 kmph, are likely along and off north coastal A.P. on December 4. Advice to fishermen Fishermen have been advised not to venture into the Andaman Sea till December 2, south-east and adjoining east-central Bay of Bengal on December 2 and 3, west-central and adjoining north-west Bay of Bengal and along and off north Andhra Pradesh - Odisha - West Bengal coasts from December 3 to 5.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/low-pressure-likely-to-intensify/article37782126.ece
01 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘State can take a decision on inclusion of Kapus in BC list’||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) OBC Morcha national president K. Laxman dared the Chief Ministers of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana to come out with a White Paper on what they had done for the BCs and minorities. Addressing the media here on Tuesday, he said that the jobs for BC communities in the local bodies have been pending since long but the Telangana Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has done nothing, Mr. Laxman alleged.Referring to a question on census for the OBCs, he said the Centre has given full powers to the State governments to conduct their own census. “The Union Government would welcome the results. We have left it to the Andhra Pradesh government to include Kapus in the BC list,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-can-take-a-decision-on-inclusion-of-kapus-in-bc-list/article37782219.ece
01 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sirivennela’s soothing, soulful lyrics will be missed: Vizagites||He was simplicity personified, his poems elevated imagination to a higher plane, he was known for his felicity of expression and extraordinary combination of words and his poems defined clarity of thoughts. This was how Vizagites defined the character and personality of Chembolu Seetharama Sastry, who is popularly known as ‘Sirivennela’ Seetharama Sastry. Seeetharama Sastry died in Secunderabad on Tuesday and the music lovers and those associated with him were distraught, after the news of his demise trickled into the city by evening. “We have lost the best poet and lyricist in Telugu of this era,” said Raghavendran of Anandavanam, Bheemunipatnam. He was one of the favourite disciples of our guruji Sri Sivananda Murthy. He would compose and sing in front of him and guruji would simply go into ecstasy, he said. Born in 1955 at Anakapalle, Seetharama Sastry spent most of his early childhood in Kakinada. Literary traits He picked his literary traits from his learned father Chembolu Venkata Yogi, who was polyglot. In those days Kakinada was a hub for literary activity and he honed his skills by rubbing shoulders with literary exponents such as Ismail and Godavari Sarma. His stay at Kakinada gave him the literary filip, recollected journalist Velcheti Subramanyam. Many from various literary organisations in the city who were associated with him say that he was a conversationalist par excellence. ‘Spiritual man’ He was a highly spiritual man and we enjoyed the conversation with him, whenever he visited our ashram, recollects Raghavendran. In the initial part of his career when he worked for BSNL, then known as Department of Telecom, he was a regular feature for all cultural shows. It was director K. Viswanath who gave him a break after reading his poem ‘Ganga Avatarana’. Although he made his debut as a lyricist for K. Viswanath’s film Janani Janmabhoomi (1984), it was Sirivennela, directed by the same director that propelled him to fame and he came to be known as Sirivennela Seetharama Sastry, said journalist Chintakindi Srinivasa Rao. He is the pride not only for Anakapalle but also for Visakhapatnam district and the State. And most importantly he never forgot his roots. His soothing lyrics will be missed for long, said Mr. Velcheti.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sirivennelas-soothing-soulful-lyrics-will-be-missed-vizagites/article37782220.ece
01 December 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Apollo launches free ambulance service up to 5 km||Apollo Hospitals, Visakhapatnam, has announced the launch of free ambulance services for emergencies up to 5 km within the city. The callers have to dial 1066 to access Apollo Hospitals Dedicated Emergency Response System (ERS). An advanced GPRS-enabled Ambulance would be immediately dispatched along with trained paramedics equipped with the necessary critical care equipment. Time is a critical factor in an emergency and the 24X7 ERS would help ensure that medical aid and support can be easily accessed during the 'golden hour'.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/apollo-launches-free-ambulance-service-up-to-5-km/article37782218.ece
01 December 2021||VIZIANAGARAM/SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||HIV/AIDS patients rue lack of proper healthcare||As many as 15,000 HIV/AIDS patients are leading miserable lives in Srikakulam and Vizianagaram districts due to lack of access to free medicines and Antiretroviral Thearpy (ART) which is a prescribed treatment for patients. The patients are demanding treatment under the Dr. YSR Aarogyasri Health Insurance Scheme and payment of pension similar to how an amount is paid to kidney disease patients in Uddanam region of Srikakulam district. The patients are expecting a positive statement from the government on the occasion of World AIDS Day which will be observed on December 1. Honorary member of International Aids Society-Geneva Kutikuppala Surya Rao urged both the Union and State governments to ensure access to ART and other medicines as the World Health Organisation had urged all countries to follow its theme ‘End inequalities-End AIDS and End Pandemics for the Year-2021’. “Fortunately, HIV/AIDS is a manageable disease with the availability of advanced medicines,” Dr. Surya Rao said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hivaids-patients-rue-lack-of-proper-healthcare/article37782145.ece
01 December 2021||December 01 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||For cleanliness||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/for-cleanliness/article37782201.ece
01 December 2021||December 01 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Dead end||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/dead-end/article37781638.ece
01 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Ready for any debate with KCR on paddy: Kishan||Union Minister for Tourism, Culture and North East States Development G. Kishan Reddy, on Tuesday, said he was ready for any kind of debate with Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao at the Telangana Martyrs’ Memorial in front of the Legislative Assembly and in the presence of senior journalists. “The only condition is the debate should be done in a civilised manner without resorting to abusive language because I am not adept at it and will lose as I cannot match him,” he remarked, talking to the media in New Delhi. ‘Vituperative comments’ “Mr. Rao, I feel, has only lowered the stature of the post he is in, with his vituperative comments on Prime Minister Narendra Modi and me. I leave it for the Telangana people to judge, but we are ready to take any insults for the sake of people and I will continue to strive for the welfare and development of TS,” he said. Mr. Kishan Reddy claimed that all he had stated was that the Centre was ready to buy every single grain of paddy this season to bolster the farmers’ confidence and about the Chief Minister feeling ‘insecure’ following the Huzurabad bypoll loss, hence resorting to criticising the Centre. “Isn’t there a civilised manner for criticism? I was an MLA for 15 years, I had never used foul language against anyone. In fact, I had apologised once when I rushed into the well of the House,” he recalled. The Minister regretted that neither the CM nor the Chief Secretary tried to seek his help or contact him during their visits to Delhi. ‘Never got CM appointment’ “I never got an appointment with Mr. Rao till date and could not get to speak to him on phone either after I became a Central minister. I hail from a farmer’s family and came up the hard way. Maybe, he thinks I am too small a person,” he said. The Centre was ready to assist the government in ensuring quality paddy seeds to the farmers to prevent broken rice production forcing the millers to go for parboiled rice, he added. Meanwhile, the entire top BJP leadership starting from State party president Bandi Sanjay Kumar to G. Narayana Reddy to P. Sudhakar Reddy and others condemned the CM’s remarks on Mr. Kishan Reddy. Mr. Sanjay Kumar said his party will take the government to task if it shuts down procurement centres. “Looks like Mr. Rao had lost his moorings post the Huzurabad bypoll defeat and wishes to divert people’s attention from seeking Dalit Bandhu. What if we too reply in the same manner?,” he said, at another press conference. Uttar Pradesh, Bengal, Andhra Pradesh, Punjab and Haryana have grown more paddy but only TS which is sixth in production seems to be having a procurement crises, he said. Alternate plan? “What is the alternate plan if paddy is not to be raised? Have the farmers been educated about any new strategy?”, he asked. He contested the claims of free power supply and sought how the Rs. 45,000 crore losses to the power distribution companies are sought to be bridged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ready-for-any-debate-with-kcr-on-paddy-kishan/article37782006.ece
01 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||High Court dismisses gutka traders’ pleas||The entire globe is facing COVID-19 pandemic and the death rate on account of gutkha/pan masala and other tobacco products is more than the deaths which are taking place on account of the pandemic. Making this observation, Telangana High Court on Tuesday dismissed a batch of writ petitions challenging a notification issued by the State government banning manufacture and sale of gutka/ pan masala and other tobacco products. “The notification, which is bound to save human lives, cannot be faulted with in any matter,” a bench of Chief Justice Satish Chandra Sharma and Justice A. Rajasheker Reddy said pronouncing verdict. The people are suffering from cancer and other diseases and the restriction imposed is in larger public interest. “It is a reasonable restriction and in no way offends the right to carry on trade guaranteed under the Constitution,” the judgment said. The bench said it did not find any reason to interfere with the State government notification on the matter. On January 6, the Telangana government issued a notification under Section 30 of Food Safety and Standards Act (FSS Act) banning manufacture, storage, distribution, transportation and sale of gutka/pan masala (containing tobacco and nicotine as ingredients) and chewing tobacco products like chap tobacco or scented/flavoured tobacco packed in sachets. Challenging this notification, several traders filed writ petitions in the HC. While one petitioner’s main business was marketing pure and scented tobacco while others are into the sale of pan masala and other allied products. Their counsel contended that State government’s notification was illegal and ultra vires of the Cigarettes and Other Tobacco Products (Prohibition of Advertisement and Regulation of Trade and Commerce, Production, Supply and Distribution) (COTPA) Act-2003. It also violated the right to trade guaranteed under Article 14 of the Constitution, they said. They contended that COTPA, a Central legislation, governs the law on tobacco products. While COTPA is a law specifically related to tobacco products, the FSS Act is a general law covering all aspects connected to food safety. The FSS Act did not define tobacco products. It did not provide for any powers to ban trade and business of such products, their lawyer contended. Government counsel T. Srikanth Reddy (Home) and Nagesh Bheemapaka (Health) argued that tobacco products came under the definition of food under FSS Act and the government had powers to ban sale of such products. The FSS Act made it clear that no food should contain tobacco or nicotine but the scented or flavoured tobacco products contain the two ingredients, he said. The bench categorically stated that the FSS Act had overriding effect over all other food-related laws and section 89 of the Act clearly provided this.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/high-court-dismisses-gutka-traders-pleas/article37781991.ece
01 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Harish Rao wants R&B to expedite construction of medical colleges||Health Minister T. Harish Rao has directed officials to expedite the construction of new medical colleges and said they should be in tune with the recommendations of the National Medical Commission. He said the State government wants to ensure that medical help reaches the remote areas at the earliest and so, it is establishing a medical college in each district. Officials should, therefore, work keeping the government’s motive in mind. In a review meeting with the officials of the Health and R&B departments, the Minister reviewed the progress of the construction of the super speciality hospital in Warangal and eight medical colleges sanctioned in various districts. He said the space should be utilised properly and future expansion needs must be kept in mind. Mr. Harish Rao said health and medical education were priorities of the government after water and employment so that maximum people benefit. Senior officials of Health and R&B departments and KNR University of Health Science Vice-Chancellor Karunakar Reddy were among those present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/harish-rao-asks-rb-to-expedite-construction-of-medical-colleges/article37781981.ece
01 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||KCR must quit as CM if he can’t bail out paddy farmers: Revanth||Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) president A. Revanth Reddy has said Chief Minister K. Chandrashekhar Rao must quit if he cannot buy paddy from the farmers even if the Centre has refused to do so. What is the use of his continuation if the CM himself threatens farmers not to cultivate paddy, he asked at a press conference in New Delhi on Tuesday. “Telangana, which is the rice bowl of India has ended up in a situation where the Chief Minister is threatening the farmers and this is nothing but inefficiency,” he said. Mr. Reddy demanded that the government must assure minimum support price if it was asking farmers to grow alternate crops. Congress government in Chhattisgarh not only ensured MSP to farmers, but also provided a bonus when it suggested alternate crops, he said and asked KCR to follow the same. Mr. Reddy alleged that KCR has the habit of going back on his assurances and he played similar stunts in the past by advising farmers against growing maize, sugarcane and cotton. Sugarcane farmers in Nizamabad, chilli farmers of Warangal and Khammam were humiliated when they asked for MSP while Girijan farmers in Khammam were implicated in false cases, arrested and chained, he recalled. “The TRS government is claiming that it is spending Rs. 3 lakh crore to create irrigation facilities for 1 crore acres of land apart from free power and investment support through the Rythu Bandhu scheme. What is the use if the government is not willing to purchase the agricultural produce,” he asked and said the Chief Minister can’t disown the farmers just because he doesn’t have any agriculture policy. The TPCC chief said both the BJP and TRS were in cahoots and playing politics over paddy procurement with an aim to push farmers towards corporate companies. Now the farmers will be forced to sell their crops to Adani and Ambani at whatever price they offer, he said. He also accused that the TRS MPs were protesting in Parliament to disrupt it in order to avoid any discussion on the repeal of the three farm laws and the demand from the Congress that compensation be paid to the farmers who died in the agitation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/kcr-must-quit-if-he-cant-bail-out-paddy-farmers-revanth/article37782008.ece
01 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||NABARD chief visits PJTSAU research arms||Chairman of the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD) Govindarajulu Chintala visited Professor Jayashankar Telangana State Agricultural University (PJTSAU) here on Tuesday. He visited several wings of the university. According to university officials, the NABARD chairman first visited the AgriHub innovation centre and interacted with representatives of the start-up companies and Vice Chancellor of the university V. Praveen Rao. He then visited the millet incubation centre, rice research centre of the Agricultural Research Institute on the campus. The Vice-Chancellor of the university explained the research activity being carried out in the rice research centre. The scientists there explained the use of drone technology in different stages of paddy cultivation. Use of drones in spraying pesticides on paddy and estimation of various types of paddy extent was also explained to the NABARD chief. Further, they explained the ‘Telangana Sona’ (RNR 15048), a superfine rice variety with low glycemic index. Mr. Govindarajulu also watched live demonstration of broadcasting method (with the help of drones) of paddy cultivation. He enquired about the other paddy varieties developed by the university and the varieties in pipeline. Mr. Govindarajulu enquired about saving time and money with the use of drone technology in paddy cultivation. Chief General Manager of NABARD Y.K. Rao, and Research Director of PJTSAU R. Jagadeeshwar participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/nabard-chief-visits-pjtsau-research-arms/article37781987.ece
01 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Space research centre to come up at BITS-Hyderabad||BITS Hyderabad took a leap forward in building an ecosystem for space technology research in collaboration with Dhruva Space announcing the formation of ‘Dhruva Space Research and Development Center for Satellite Communication Technologies’ on Tuesday. The Center has already established an Earth Station that can be configured to operate in the L/C/S & X Bands inside the BITS campus for supporting high data transmission rates and also for testing newer technologies in the satellite communications. Dhruva Space is a full stack space engineering company engaged in extensive R&D for easing access to space and has also joint proposals to the ISRO Human Spaceflight directorate Announcement of Opportunities. The Centre is envisioned to shape the leaders on futuristic technologies associated with Aerospace, Space and Defence. BITS Director G.Sundar said the Hyderabad campus is looking forward to contributing to R & D of the space tech sector and to the space economy with such collaboration. The outcome of industry and academia working together would be to bring in new and novel technologies, he said, according to a press release. “India’s efforts in building the space technology ecosystem have expedited with opening up of the sector to private players,”said Co-founder of Dhruva Space Krishna Teja.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/space-research-centre-to-come-up-at-bits-hyderabad/article37781994.ece
01 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Dial 104 for vaccine grievances||People who are yet to take COVID-19 vaccine but have received a message stating they took the jab can now register their grievance on helpline numbers of the Health department. The numbers are ‘104’ and 91541-70960. Vaccination, as one of the important tools in the fight against the pandemic, has picked up in the wake of reports about Omicron, the new ‘variant of concern’. Doctors say the time gap between two doses of Covishield also has to be reduced so that more people get immunity against the virus. Asked if there was any proposal to reduce the time gap between the two doses of Covishield, Director of Public Health G. Srinivasa Rao said that Health Minister T. Harish Rao has placed a request with the Central government in this regard. Dr Srinivasa Rao has urged people to get vaccinated. A few days go, he said around 25 lakh people in the State have skipped the second dose of COVID-19 vaccine after having completed the stipulated time gap between two jabs. Vaccination drive Altogether, 2.77 crore people in the State above the age of 18 years are eligible for the vaccination. From January 16 to November 29, as many as 2.48 crore have taken the first dose and 1.27 crore the second dose. Mr Harish Rao had earlier directed the officials to vaccinate the entire population of Telangana by the end of this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/dial-104-for-vaccine-grievances/article37781974.ece
01 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TRS hits back at BJP, Cong. on paddy procurement||Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) has criticised Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Congress on the issue of paddy procurement stating that the two parties were ‘spreading lies’ on the issue and doing ‘great injustice’ to farmers. Speaking to reporters on Tuesday, TRS MLA and chairman of Public Undertaking Committee (PUC) A. Jeevan Reddy said that Union Minister G. Kishan Reddy does not know about agriculture and paddy and was only ‘spreading lies’ on the issue of procurement. He suggested Mr. Kishan Reddy to find out whether the Telangana government had given the undertaking on not supplying parboiled rice from this year on its own or under pressure from the Department of Food and Public Distribution as a pre-condition to lift 20 lakh tonnes of parboiled rice produced during the rabi season of 2020-21. Mr. Jeevan Reddy also sought to know that the undertaking was not changeable as the Constitution of the country had already been amended about 100 times so far. Terming the Union Minister a ‘political tourist’ to Telangana, the TRS MLA said that except for making provocative and misleading statements, he did nothing for the State so far. “If Mr. Kishan Reddy really wanted to help farmers of Telangana, he could pursue with the Centre for lifting of entire paddy/rice produced in the kharif season and also convince it to take parboiled rice produced in the State in rabi season,” he said. “Entire Telangana will hail Mr. Kishan Reddy and other Union Ministers if they protect the interests of paddy farmers,” he added. Mr. Jeevan Reddy also criticised TPCC president A. Revanth Reddy and asked him to make AICC president Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi protest in front of the Prime Minister’s residence in support of Telangana farmers. Meanwhile, TRS MPs continued their protest on the issue of paddy procurement in Lok Sabha for the second day on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/trs-hits-back-at-bjp-cong-on-paddy-procurement/article37782001.ece
01 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TS Discoms file ARRs for 2022-23, withhold filing RST||The two power distribution companies (Discoms) of Telangana — TSSPDCL and TSNPDCL — filed their Aggregate Revenue Requirement for 2022-23 before the Telangana State Electricity Regulatory Commission (TSERC) here on Tuesday. However, the Discoms did not file the retail supply tariffs (RST) for 2022-23. They filed the RST for 2018-19 last time and since then the same tariff is being extended every year by the TSERC. The Discoms did not file RST for the last three financial years — 2019-20, 2020-21 and 2021-22. Either the Discoms or the TSERC did not reveal the details of the ARR filed for 2022-23 although the latter stated that the Discoms have filed the ARRs with operational and financial performance, sales forecast, load forecast, power procurement plan for the next financial year, expenditure projects, revenue projects, including revenue from cross subsidy and additional surcharge, estimated cost of service for various consumer categories and revenue gap. When contacted, officials of the Discoms admitted that there was considerable energy gap in the ARRs filed and the file related to tariff hike proposed by them was pending clearance with the government (Chief Minister). They stated that it was inevitable to increase the tariff since costs of power generation, transmission and others have gone up considerably during the last three years and losses were piling up in spite of tariff subsidy. The estimated revenue gap for the current financial is put at over Rs. 10,000 crore and the Discoms are unable to come out of the red in spite of joining the Ujjwal Discom Assurance Yojana (UDAY) in which the State government took over the losses of the Discoms. By joining the scheme in 2017, the State government took over about Rs. 12,000 crore debt of the two Discoms as of September 30, 2015. However, the two Discoms have kept piling up debt even after that due to revenue gap. Interestingly, the TSERC, in its official statement, stated that “in order to bridge the revenue gap/strengthen the financial position of the Discoms there is need to enhance the RST.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ts-discoms-file-arrs-for-2022-23-withhold-filing-rst/article37781985.ece
01 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||eInfochips to raise headcount||Product engineering and semiconductor design services provider eInfochips plans to hire around 250 engineers for its Hyderabad design centre by financial year (FY) 2023. Of the employees to be inducted, about 100 are likely to be recruited over the next six months by the company, which has a headcount of 50 in the city. The hiring will be primarily focused on silicon design, verification and physical design, the wholly-owned subsidiary of Arrow Electronics said in a release on Tuesday. The expansion of the Hyderabad facility is to cater to the growing customer demand. eInfochips was previously working from a co-working space in the HiTec City area, but since the pandemic hit, it had switched to a remote working mode. It is looking to resuming work from office in either the first or second quarter of 2022. “eInfochips, as part of Arrow, wants to accelerate growth further with an expanded and diverse talent pool. The Hyderabad design centre will add to our global capabilities of ASIC and FPGA design, verification and validation and backend (physical design / DFT) for our clients,” said Sumit Sethi, chief operating officer. eInfochips is also looking to set up ODCs in tier-II cities in India. Some of the other cities on the radar include Kochi, Coimbatore and Bhubaneshwar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/einfochips-to-raise-headcount/article37781992.ece
01 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Concerns raised over delayed elections to Waqf Board||The term of Telangana State Waqf Board, which comprises nominated and elected members, is scheduled to come to an end in February. With no official notification issued announcing elections this far, some board members and those in the know, have raised concerns over this, pointing out that in order to maintain the board’s autonomy, the State government should set wheels in motion for elections. The Wakf Act of 1995 states that up to two members should be elected from the electoral colleges comprising mutawallis (managers) of waqf institutions which have an annual income of at least Rs. 1 lakh, Muslim members of the State Bar Council, Muslim members of State Legislature and Muslim members of Parliament. Sources opined that the election process was time-consuming, and likely to take a minimum of two months to complete. Successive governments, they alleged, had dragged their feet in connection with calling for elections. “If you see, after the term of the board in united Andhra Pradesh came to an end in 2013, there were special officers or competent authority who headed the board till a new board was elected much after the formation of Telangana. It was only after directions were sought from the High Court that the elections were held. The TSWB is an autonomous body and special officers, even as they may have good intentions, do not auger well for this autonomous character of the board,” said a source. Speaking to The Hindu on the issue, TSWB board member Syed Akbar Nizamuddin Hussaini said that with the body’s five-year term scheduled to come to an end in February, it is mandatory that the State government hold elections before February 24. Touching upon the appointments of special officers in the past, he said, “According to the Waqf Act, it is only in a scenario that the board is superseded that a special officer can be appointed. Therefore, it is our demand that elections, which is a time-taking process, be held as soon as possible. Preparations for elections should not be delayed.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/concerns-raised-over-delayed-elections-to-waqf-board/article37781997.ece
01 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Gouravelli project oustees asked to collect cheques||Siddipet district officials have asked farmers of about 270 acres under Gouravelli project in Gudatipally village of Akkannapet mandal to come and collect cheques pertaining to their land. The farmers were offered Rs. 15 lakh per acre, the highest amount offered to any oustees in the district. The revenue officials have asked farmers to come with the required documents like five photos, five revenue stamps, two photo copies of Aadhaar card and photo copies of pattadar passbooks. If the land being sold to government is spread in more than one survey number, farmers have to bring that many number of copies for each survey number. Farmers were also asked to sign a declaration stating that they would vacate their houses within 20 days. According to Siddipet RDO M. Anantha Reddy, presently acting as the RDO of Husnabad, some farmers had already signed and collected cheques on Tuesday. However, some are demanding officials to offer them sufficient time and 2 BHK houses before they vacate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/gouravelli-project-oustees-asked-to-collect-cheques/article37782004.ece
01 December 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Vice-Chancellors want more freedom||The Vice-Chancellors’ meeting at the Telangana State Council of Higher Education (TSCHE) discussed the academic plan post-COVID, common calender, academic freedom to varsties and teachers’ recruitment among others. The meeting presided over by TSCHE Chairman R. Limbadri, vice chairman V. Venkataramana, secretary Srinivas Rao and vice chancellors of various universities deliberated on the reopening of the campuses and the precautions to be taken. Some VCs apparently raised the recruitment issue, stating that faculty shortage was hurting the academic activity and this needed to be taken up with the government at the earliest. The Chairman, Prof. Limbadri, assured that their concerns would be taken to the notice of the government. He wanted the varsities to concentrate on improving the NAAC accreditation status for the colleges as only 4% of the colleges were accredited so far. He asked the VCs to taken measures in this regard to improve quality education. Some vice-chancellors objected to indiscriminate sanction of courses by the Telangana State Council of Higher Education leading to pressures from colleges for affiliation. The universities wanted the TSCHE to take them into confidence before sanctioning new courses to the colleges that were putting pressure on them through political leaders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/vice-chancellors-want-more-freedom/article37781996.ece
01 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||State on course of realising targets set for tax revenue during current fiscal||The State appears to be on course of realising the target of over Rs. 92,000 crore through own tax revenues during the current financial year with major sectors like the sales tax/VAT, excise duties, Registration and Stamps fast returning to normalcy. The State has recovered from the impact of the Coronavirus (COIVD-19) pandemic and posted own tax revenue of Rs. 85,300 crore during the previous financial year 2020-21. This is close to 20% higher than the previous fiscal when it was Rs. 71,328 crore. The State continues to witness healthy growth in the own tax revenues since its formation in 2014. The State’s own tax revenue in 2014-15 was pegged at Rs. 29,288 crore. The tax revenue has been on the rise ever since with the State registering own tax revenue of Rs. 39,975 crore (2015-16), Rs. 48,408 crore (2016-17), Rs. 58,177 crore (2017-18), Rs. 65,040 crore (2018-19) and Rs. 71,328 crore (2019-20). Growth in the own non-tax revenue during the previous fiscal too was impressive at Rs. 30,600 crore, a significant jump from Rs. 12,275 crore registered in the financial year 2019-20, according to the Handbook of Statistics on Indian States 2020-21 released by the Reserve Bank of India. Capital expenditure during the previous fiscal was highest since the formation of the State at Rs. 44,145 crore with the previous highest being Rs. 40,253 crore registered in 2016-17. Interest payments on account of the liabilities was Rs. 14,615 crore, shade higher than Rs. 14,385 crore of the fiscal 2019-20 while the expenditure on account of pensions was Rs. 10,066 crore, lower than Rs. 10,333 crore of FY20. The State could keep pace with the disbursal of pensions in spite of the fact that 2020-21 was not considered a standard year with respect to the performance of the economy and government finances on account of the Coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/state-on-course-of-realising-targets-set-for-tax-revenue-during-current-fiscal/article37781999.ece
01 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Improve institutional deliveries, says Minister||Health Minister T. Harish Rao has directed officials to improve institutional deliveries and instill confidence among the public in government hospitals. He visited the government hospital at Narayankhed and expressed displeasure over its poor performance. He inspected the oxygen plant, blood bank and X-ray wards. Referring to paddy procurement, Mr Harish Rao said about 70% of the paddy was already procured in the district and the remaining will be completed shortly. “BJP and Congress leaders have been creating unnecessary issues on paddy procurement. We have established as many as 157 procurement centres in Sangareddy district. Both the parties have no moral right to speak about farmers,” said Mr. Harish Rao, adding Union Ministers Piyush Goyal and G. Kishan Reddy were making contradictory statements on paddy procurement in the State. Stating that the State was unable to buy paddy due to policies of the Centre, Mr Harish Rao said that Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao was committed to provide irrigation to Sangareddy with fixing lifts at Singur project in addition to spending an amount of about Rs. 4,000 crore to Basaveswara and Sangameswara lift irrigation projects. The works will commence shortly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/improve-institutional-deliveries-says-minister/article37781976.ece
01 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||19 IICT scientists on Stanford researchers’ list||Nineteen scientists from the CSIR-Indian Institute of Chemical Technology (IICT) feature in the Stanford University’s Global DataBase of Top 2% of the most cited researchers. The institute also makes for the highest number of scientists to feature in the list from among CSIR labs based on research publications till end of 2020. The report was prepared by a team of experts led by John Ioannidis of Stanford University. The list includes Srivari Chandrasekhar, B.V. Subba Reddy, J.S. Yadav, Gowravaram Sabitha, H.M. Meshram, T.K. Chakraborty and B. Sreedhar under organic chemistry; S. Venkata Mohan in biotechnology; B.M. Reddy in physical chemistry, Mohammed Fazlur Rahman in toxicology; Rajkumar Banerjee in pharmacology and pharmacy; Sundergopal Sridhar in chemical engineering; S.V. Manorama in materials; Chittaranjan Patra in nanoscience and nanotechnology; Srinivasan Palaniappan in polymers; C. Ganesh Kumar, Ashok Kumar Tiwari, J.V. Rao and Kantevari Srinivasin in medicinal and biomolecular chemistry. Mannepalli Lakshmi Kantam, Ahmed Kamal, Boyapati Manoranjan Choudary, and Biswanath Das, who were associated with IICT but are currently with other institutes, also made it to the list, said a press release on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/19-iict-scientists-on-stanford-researchers-list/article37781978.ece
01 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Governor, Chief Minister mourn lyricist’s demise||Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan and Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao mourned the death of Chambolu (Sirivennela) Seetherama Sastry. Expressing shock and anguish, the Governor said that, in his demise, the Telugu film industry lost a legendary lyricist, who left an indelible mark by penning some truly immortal lyrics. She expressed deep condolences to the bereaved family members and fans. Mr Rao, for his part, said Seetharama Sastry, who could provide lyrics to any tune, enthralled both scholars and common man alike and won their hearts. His three-and-a-half decade literary journey touched upon social and traditional issues, he added. A void was created in the film world following his death and it was great loss for the fans of Telugu films and literature. Mr Rao conveyed his condolences to the bereaved family. Several Ministers, including G. Jagdish Reddy, S. Niranjan Reddy, Puvvada Ajay Kumar, Satyavati Rathod and T. Srinivas Yadav recalled the contributions of Seetharama Sastry to Telugu films and expressed sympathies for the bereaved family. BJP leaders condole Union Minister for Tourism, Culture and North East States Development G. Kishan Reddy condoled the lyricist’s death and recalled his longstanding association with him, much before he became noted for movie songs. He offered sympathies to the bereaved family. BJP State president Bandi Sanjay Kumar, former Maharashtra governor Ch. Vidyasagar Rao and former Minister Eatala Rajendra, in their respective messages, said it was a great loss for the film industry and Telugu people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/governor-chief-minister-mourn-lyricists-demise/article37781979.ece
01 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Film industry pays tributes||The Telugu film industry condoled the passing away of popular lyricist Seetharama Sastry. Leading stars including Chiranjeevi, Mahesh Babu and Ravi Teja paid tributes on Twitter. Nagarjuna Akkineni tweeted, “You have left us with such beautiful words and songs Seetharama Sastry Garu which will live forever!! May your soul rest in peace #RipSirivennellaSeetharamasastry”. Prakash Raj wrote, “Unbearable loss. thank you for the poetic perceptions which added meaning to our lives... You were the best guruji ”. “Deeply saddened by the loss of lyrical genius Sirivennela Seetharama Sastry garu. My thoughts and prayers are with the family during this difficult time. Rest in peace sir.. You will be terribly missed,” Mahesh Babu tweeted. Siddharth said he was “blessed to be blessed” by Sastry, who helped him learn Telugu. “When I was learning Telugu before my first film, he taught me how to read poetry and I thank him for my love for the Telugu language. What a legendary mind. Deepest condolences,” he added. Actor Ravi Teja said: “Saddened by the demise of Sirivennela Seetharama Sastry garu. His contribution to Telugu cinema is indelible. Rest in peace sir.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/film-industry-pays-tributes/article37781975.ece
01 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Two nabbed for inter-State burglaries||Two inter-State burglars, Syed Mohsin and Shaik Mahmood, natives of Bidar, Karnataka, were arrested, and 73 tolas of gold and four kilograms of silver ornaments were recovered from them. Residing in Borabanda, Hyderabad, the duo has been committing night-time house burglaries since 2017. The former, Mohsin, an auto-rickshaw driver was arrested in as many as 39 related cases by six police limits in Hyderabad between 2003 and 2015 and was also booked under Preventive Detention Act. 20 cases Between 2017 and now, the duo was found to be involved in 20 cases in Miyapur, Ramachandrapuram, Narsingi and Rajendranagar police limits, and in four cases in Sangareddy rural police limits.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/two-nabbed-for-inter-state-burglaries/article37781983.ece
01 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Short spike in COVID cases for second day||COVID-19 cases in Telangana have shown a surge for the second consecutive day. Usually, around 140-160 infections are detected in a day, but on Tuesday, 196 positive cases were reported. On the previous day (Monday), the State had recorded 184 new cases. While 33,236 samples were examined on Monday, 38,615 were tested on Tuesday. The new 196 infections on Tuesday included 78 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation region, 20 from Medchal-Malkajgiri and 15 from Rangareddy. No infection was detected in six districts. Two more COVID patients died, taking the death toll to 3,992.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/short-spike-in-covid-cases-for-second-day/article37781970.ece
01 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Cyberabad police nab seven in fake RC racket||The special operation team of Shamshabad Police nabbed seven persons in a fake registration card printing racket and seized as many as 900 illegally printed and 300 unprinted cards. Agents, vehicle re-sellers and brokers who had formed into a network took advantage of the fact that RTA officials do not cross check the smart chip details of the returned original RC card when users apply for issue of a renewal/duplicate RC card. RTA agent Sampath in Kothagudem, who had access to RTA premises, stole the address-returned RC cards, expired and submitted original RC cards at the counter. Then, DTP operator Satish of Shamshabad erased the details on the card using a polish remover and reprinted new details, as provided by vehicle broker Chandrasekhar from Alwal, and forged them as the original card. M. Ganesh, DTP operator, Syed Hussain, RTA agent and Ch. Ramesh, vehicle broker, were all in the network.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cyberabad-police-nab-seven-in-fake-rc-racket/article37781982.ece
01 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Farmers stop Harish convoy||In an embarrassment to the ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS), farmers stopped the convoy of Finance and Health Minister Harish Rao at Alladurg on Tuesday morning when he was on his way to Narayankhed. The farmers raised slogans of ‘KCR down down.’ They also poured out their grievances in front of the Minister. They alleged that despite repeated appeals, officials were not procuring paddy and they were waiting for several weeks. Mr. Harish Rao immediately spoke with the revenue divisional officer and assured that procurement would commence shortly. After the Minister’s assurance, the farmers withdrew their agitation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/farmers-stop-harish-convoy/article37782151.ece
01 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Look-out notice issued against businessman||The Sanathnagar police of the city on Tuesday issued a look-out notice against an absconding accused businessman in connection with several cheating cases. The official announcement against Sarasala Sridhar, a resident of Nandagiri Hills at Jubilee Hills, was regarding a case registered at Sanathnagar. The accused businessman had also been booked at police stations of Narsingi, Rayadurgam, Gachibowli and other police stations in Cyberabad police commissionerate limits. Police said informants would be rewarded and their details would be kept confidential. Officials could be contacted at 040-27852968 and 9490617132.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/look-out-notice-issued-against-businessman/article37781989.ece
01 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||MVI convicted of criminal misconduct||Principal Special Judge for SPE & ACB cases Samba Siva Rao Naidu on Tuesday convicted a motor vehicle inspector of criminal misconduct and of being in possession of assets disproportionate to his known sources of income. The accused officer Mahender Singh was sentenced to three years’ rigorous imprisonment and was imposed a fine of Rs. 2,000. The Judge, besides the sentence, passed orders to confiscate assets worth Rs. 30,00,719 from the accused officer. Man murdered A 50-year-old man who was found dead in his parked car in Trimulgherry police limits late on Monday was suspected to have been murdered by his relative. The victim was identified as Vijay Bhaskar Reddy, a real estate broker from Alwal. He was found dead in the front seat of his car, with a blunt head injury, at a ground in Trimulgherry around 10 p.m. Police suspect that dispute over matters of business led to the incident. Thota Narender Reddy, the victim’s cousin, was being questioned.   The IX Addl. District and Sessions Judge P. Raju on Tuesday sentenced onvicted a youth Odde Pochaiah alias Ashok of sexually assaulting a minor girl, in Rajapur police limits of Mahabubnagar district in 2017 and awarded him jail term for 20 years with a fine of Rs. 2,000. The case was transferred and re-registered by Adibatla police as the accused was a resident of Turkayamjal village. It was proved that Ashok, then a 19-year-old, sexually assaulted the 16-year-old dalit girl several times, and at the time of complaint, the victim was in her seventh month of pregnancy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/mvi-convicted-of-criminal-misconduct/article37781988.ece
01 December 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Schools’ closure news on social media is fake: DSE||Director of School Education (DSE) Sri Devesena has asked students and parents not to believe the fake news on social media that Education Minister Sabita Indra Reddy has asked for closure of schools from December 2 due to the new COVID variant Omicron. The news was fake as schools would function as usual, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/schools-closure-news-on-social-media-is-fake-dse/article37781998.ece
01 December 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Contesting in LAC polls to prove strength: Jagga||Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) working president and Sangareddy MLA Jayaprakash Reddy said that District Congress Committee (DCC) president T. Nirmala Jayaprakash Reddy was contesting in the MLC elections for Local Area Constituency (LAC) of Medak to prove its strength. Speaking to reporters in Sangareddy on Tuesday, he said that this move had forced Finance Minister T. Harish Rao to interact with sarpanches, MPTCs and ZPTCs to address their problems. “Did Mr. Harish Rao respond to the local public representatives in the past?” asked Mr. Jayaprakash Reddy urging the LAC voters to vote for the Congress candidate to get their respect intact.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/contesting-in-lac-polls-to-prove-strength-jagga/article37782000.ece
01 December 2021||KARIMNAGAR,TELANGANA||SCCL trade unions to go on strike from December 9||Upping the ante against the Centre’s decision to auction four coal blocks in the State for commercial mining, trade unions of the Singareni Collieries Company Limited (SCCL), affiliated to the five Central trade unions INTUC, AITUC, CITU, HMS and BMS, have joined hands with the Telangana Boggu Gani Karmika Sangham to go on strike for three days starting December 9. The five major trade unions have served a notice on the management of the State-owned SCCL to go on a strike for 72 hours from December 9 to 11 to press for a 12-point charter of demands mainly to mount pressure on the Centre stop auction of coal blocks. The ruling TRS affiliated TBGKS has already sent a notice to the company’s management five days ago conveying its decision to go on strike on or after December 9 to press for a five-point charter of demands including removal of the four coal blocks of the SCCL – Kalyan Khani Block-6, Koyagudem Block-III, Sattupalli Block-III and Shravanapalli from the Coal Ministry’s list of commercial coal mine auction. The notice copy signed by the representatives of all the five central trade unions contained 11 other demands. The main demands include hike in salaries of the contract workers employed in the SCCL as recommended by the high-power committee on par with the Coal India Limited (CIL), payment of Rs. 1 crore ex gratia each to the kin of deceased employees of the recent mine accidents, expediting the implementation of the dependent job scheme, among others. Addressing a joint press conference at Godavarikhani on Tuesday, the leaders of the Singareni unions and TBGKS vowed to spearhead the joint strike in all the 45 coal mines of the SCCL in pursuit of their charter of demands.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/sccl-trade-unions-to-go-on-strike-from-dec-9/article37782010.ece
01 December 2021||KARIMNAGAR,TELANGANA||Blood donation camp held||Around 100 persons, including several employees of the TSRTC, students and bus passengers donated blood at a mega blood donation camp held at the bus stand here on Tuesday. People from various walks of life participated in the camp in response to the call given by TSRTC Managing Director V C Sajjanar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/blood-donation-camp-held/article37782150.ece
01 December 2021||Bhubaneswar,||Ex-judge to monitor murder probe||Ahead of the winter session of the Odisha Legislative Assembly, in which the issue of woman teacher Mamita Meher’s murder may dominate, the Orissa High Court has nominated A.B.S. Naidu, a former district judge, to monitor the investigation. The State government had requested Orissa High Court to nominate a sitting or retired judge of the court or a district and sessions judge to monitor the investigation of Mamita Meher murder case in order to have transparency in the matter as it is a sensitive case. Mamita Meher, teacher at Sunshine English Medium School, Mahaling in Kalahandi district, had gone missing on October 8 and the body was traced on October 19. She was reportedly strangulated to death by Gobina Sahu, promoter of the school. Police said the accused killed Meher in order to prevent her from revealing his extra marital affairs. However, opposition political parties alleged that MoS Home Dibya Shankar Mishra who had close links with Sahu was shielding him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/ex-judge-to-monitor-murder-probe/article37781880.ece
01 December 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Punjab CM writes to PM, seeks waiver of farm debts||Ahead of the Assembly elections due next year in Punjab, the issue surrounding the waiver of debt was yet again at the centrestage of politics on Wednesday with Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi writing to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking to mutually evolve a mechanism to waive debts of farmers and farm labourers'. In his letter, Mr. Channi urged the Prime Minister to accept his proposal for a complete waiver of farmers and farm labourers' debt, adding that Punjab Government was ready to take over its share of debt burden along with Government of India. Mr. Channi emphasised the need to frame a Centre-State shared scheme of an appropriate ratio spread over some time with proper modalities to handle this issue. “Despite the stressed revenues of the State Government, no sacrifice would be big enough then the weight of this moral obligation that we owe to farmer fraternity,” he wrote. “Today is the day and today is the opportunity and today let's make a fresh start and work towards improving the entire ecosystem of agriculture in Punjab in particular and the nation in general. We as stakeholders are ready to commit ourselves to any new arrangement that is decided mutually between all the stakeholders”,” said the Chief Minister. Shiromani Akali Dal cornered the ruling Congress over the letter, accusing it of "failing to fulfil its election promise of complete loan waiver to farmers" during the 2017 Assembly poll campaign. In the backdrop of the letter, Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal said that Mr. Channi has admitted that the Congress government did not have any intention of implementing a complete Rs. 90,000 crore farm loan waiver promised to farmers of Punjab. He accused Mr. Channi of resorting to trickery and treachery to squirm his way out of the commitment by putting the onus of the same on the central government. ‘Double whammy’ “It is clear that the Punjab Congress want to do a double whammy on farmers of Punjab. Farmers were tricked into believing the Congress government would waive off their loans on the eve of the 2017 Assembly elections by then Pradesh Congress President Capt Amarinder Singh. Now after deceiving and betraying the trust of farmers, Channi is again trying to trick farmers into believing that their loans will be waived off in conjunction with the Central government,” said Mr. Badal. “Mr. Channi’s letter is not worth the paper it is printed upon. It is a matter of record that the complete farm loan waiver was promised by the Congress party and not the Central government.” added Mr. Badal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/punjab-cm-writes-to-pm-seeks-waiver-of-farm-debts/article37781884.ece
01 December 2021||GURUGRAM,||Omicron impact: full school move put on hold by Haryana Govt.||Amid the scare over the new COVID-19 variant, Omicron, the Haryana government on Tuesday put on hold its earlier decision to allow schools to run with full capacity from December 1. Haryana Education Minister Kanwar Pal said the government had decided to put on hold its decision to allow schools to run with full capacity in view of the Omicron scare and review the situation after about a week. He said the schools will continue to run with 50% capacity as earlier till further orders. Mr. Pal said the education department officials have been directed to convey the decision to the schools in the State. Minister’s tweet Mr. Pal had in a tweet this past week announced the government’s decision to allow the schools, both private and government, to run with full capacity adhering to COVID-appropriate behaviour. “If a COVID related problem resurfaces in the future, the government will take immediate decision on it,” said the tweet five days ago. The Haryana government had allowed the schools to resume offline classes for classes 6-12 in July this year after the second wave of the pandemic sunsided. Later, the resumption of primary classes was also allowed in September.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/omicron-impact-full-school-move-put-on-hold-by-haryana-govt/article37781879.ece
01 December 2021||GURUGRAM,||Jamiat seeks action against three right-wing leaders||The local unit of Jamiat-Ulama-i-Hind on Tuesday gave a formal complaint to the police seeking action against three right-wing leaders for allegedly making provocative statements over offering of namaz in the open, promoting enmity against Islam and hurting the sentiments of the Muslim community. The one-page complaint by Mufti Mohammad Saleem Qasmi, president of Jamiat-Ulama-i-Hind, Gurugram, said, “Right-wing leaders Dinesh Bharti, Kulbhushan Bhardwaj and Sanyukt Hindu Sangharsh Samiti president Mahaveer Bhardwaj have been repeatedly making provocative statements in public with the intention to promote enmity against Islam, which has deeply hurt the religious sentiments of the Muslim community. Needless to say, they are repeatedly doing these acts that are prejudicial to the maintenance of communal harmony.” The complaint also referred to the alleged comments made by the three leaders in videos available online and sought immediate legal action.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/jamiat-seeks-action-against-three-right-wing-leaders/article37781876.ece
01 December 2021||GUWAHATI,||Assam lynching: CM wants chargesheet in 30 days||Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma has given the State police a 30-day deadline to file a chargesheet against those involved in the lynching of an All Assam Students’ Union leader in Jorhat town on November 29. The police have so far arrested 13 persons, including the main accused Niraj Das, an alleged drug peddler and a hardened criminal with several cases registered against him. A mob of at least 50 people had attacked AASU leader Animesh Bhuyan, a local TV journalist, and another person after an old man fell off his scooter and was injured. The mob had suspected them of hitting the man with their car. The three were grievously injured. While Mr. Bhuyan succumbed to his injuries on the way to the hospital, the other two were recovering, the police said. The CM directed the Special DGP to supervise the investigation into the lynching.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/assam-lynching-cm-wants-chargesheet-in-30-days/article37781885.ece
01 December 2021||LUCKNOW,||Mayawati rules out talks with Bhim Army||There was no question of talks with Bhim Army leader Chandrashekhar Azad for the 2022 Uttar Pradesh Assembly election, Bahujan Samaj Party chief Mayawati asserted on Tuesday. Responding to questions, she reiterated that the BSP would contest all 403 seats alone. Asked by a journalist what she thought of Mr. Azad’s visit to Lucknow where he stated that he would try and talk to leaders of other parties, including her, for possible alliances, Ms. Mayawati sounded dismissive. “When I have told you that BSP will fight alone on its own strength, then such a question does not arise,” Ms. Mayawati said at a press conference. Mr. Azad, who belongs to the same Dalit sub-caste as Ms. Mayawati, Jatav, has shown interest in next year’s Assembly election, sparking speculation on the likely impact on the already depleted BSP. Ms. Mayawati also said that if voted to power, her government would take care of the interests of Jats, Muslims and the most-backward communities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/mayawati-rules-out-talks-with-bhim-army/article37781882.ece
01 December 2021||New Delhi,||Low on cleanliness||Delhi’s three municipal corporations — North, South and East — continue to perform dismally in the Central Government’s annual cleanliness survey. This year too, two of the civic bodies found themselves in the last 10 of the rankings, while none of them scored a single point in the ‘garbage free city’ category. According to the Swachh Survekshan 2021, under which the civic bodies were chosen in the category of cities with a population of more than 10 lakh, the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) has retained its previous ranking of 31 (out of 48). Last year, a total of 47 cities were scrutinised under the category. However, the North Delhi Municipal Corporation has slipped from 43 to 45. The East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC), on the other hand, was positioned at 40, a marginal improvement from the 2020 rankings when it was placed at 46. The cities were ranked based on three parameters: service-level progress based on data provided by urban local bodies, certification based on waste management, sanitation — garbage free city and open defecation free (ODF) categories — and citizens feedback and engagement (citizen voice category). No progress In the ODF category for 2021, the North Delhi corporation scored zero, while the SDMC and the EDMC got 500 and 300 (out of 700) respectively. Last year, the North Delhi civic body scored a mere 100, while the South and East corporations got 300 and 200 (out of 500) respectively. The civic bodies have got the abysmal scores despite announcing various initiatives to improve waste management and sanitation. These include segregation of waste at the doorstep, shutting down open three-walled garbage collection points ( dhalaos ), and moving towards fixed compactor transfer stations (FCTS) for processing waste. SDMC Standing Committee chairman B.K. Oberoi (BJP) said that the initiatives are part of a “long-term project” and that their impact “will reflect in next year’s cleanliness rankings”. “I do not think that this will affect our poll prospects. Most of our initiatives gained pace after this year’s cleanliness survey concluded. We have increased the number of vehicles for garbage collection and even the FCTS, but it will take time to reflect on the scorecard. Some initiatives were also delayed because of the pandemic. People are aware of the ground situation and they know that we are doing our bit,” Mr. Oberoi said. EDMC Commissioner Vikas Anand said that the civic body is working to improve its performance for a better ranking in next year’s cleanliness survey. Citizens’ feedback North Delhi corporation Standing Committee chairman Jogi Ram Jain (BJP) said that the civic body has done “extremely well” in terms of citizens engagement and feedback. At the Swachh Survekshan 2021 awards, the North Delhi civic body secured the top spot in the ‘citizen voice’ category and won the award for the “best mega city in citizens feedback”. The corporation scored 1,201.96 (out of 1,800) in the category, which was slightly over 50% of its total score in the annual cleanliness survey. The South and East civic bodies fared equally well in the category, fetching 1,234.92 and 1,180.77 respectively. However, SDMC Leader of Opposition Prem Chauhan (AAP) said that the citizens’ feedback “does not show the complete picture”. “I am aware that a majority of people won’t dive deep into the survey scores but they will definitely notice the poor state of waste management and sanitation within their surroundings,” he said. As to why the civic body’s initiatives don’t reflect in areas of garbage collection and sanitation, Mr. Chauhan said it is simply because the corporation does not give a free hand to its officers. “The execution is also poor and delayed. For instance, waste segregation is happening and people are ensuring that waste is being collected in the required manner. But when the waste goes to the FCTS, both wet and dry waste are processed together. This is among the many reasons why the BJP-led corporations have scored poorly in these categories; they have the facilities but fail at execution,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/low-on-cleanliness/article37781869.ece
01 December 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi Govt. ramps up health facilities amid Omicron scare||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday said he was personally monitoring the COVID-19 situation to ensure that Delhi was well equipped for any incoming threat related to the Omicron variant. Mr. Kejriwal chaired a high-level meeting with all authorities concerned to review the city’s preparedness against the new threat and the status of preparedness to deal with it. “Today, I held a meeting with all departments concerned to discuss and assess the preparations and took note of the status of facilities available,” Mr. Kejriwal told a digital briefing. Beds, oxygen supply He said, “The discussion covered the number of beds available, the number of beds needed additionally, testing rates and requirements, oxygen requirement, vaccination status, ICU requirement, manpower and the like.” As far as beds were concerned, he said the bed capacity in hospitals had been increased to 25,106 during the second wave of COVID in May 2021. The Government has now arranged for 30,000 oxygen beds, of which around 10,000 are ICU beds. Additionally, he said 6,800 ICU beds will be ready by February 2022, which will bring the capacity of ICU beds to around 17,000. Besides this, he said the Government had planned its preparations in such a way that it would be able to arrange 100 oxygen beds in every municipal ward at two weeks’ notice. Medicine stock “Hence, for 270 wards, 27,000 oxygen beds can be arranged at short notice. This brings us to a total of 63,800 beds, which we have prepared or are in the process of being prepared. All the manpower that will be needed for this is currently being trained,” he said. “There are 32 kinds of medicines which are required to treat COVID-19 patients. A two-month buffer stock of these medicines is being ordered to avoid shortage. Home isolation arrangements are also being actively made,” he said. To deal with storage and distribution-related problems of oxygen, Mr. Kejriwal said, the Government had constructed extra storage facilities of 442 MT as well as PSA plants to produce oxygen within the State and not rely on supply from outside. “Over 120 MT oxygen is being produced within Delhi. This way we will avoid the oxygen crisis which we faced during the second wave,” he said. “Previously, spare capacity to store oxygen, in addition to oxygen cylinders with pre-existing beds, were not present in Delhi. To solve this, 6,000 D-type empty cylinders have been imported from China to supply beds with oxygen as and when needed. Through this, oxygen beds can be arranged in non-hospital areas very easily,” he added. According to Mr. Kejriwal, the current status of vaccination in Delhi was “good” with 93% of its people having received their first dose and 57% having received the second dose as well. He appealed to citizens whose second dose was due to come forward and complete their vaccination. Testing at airport “I hope that Omicron virus does not affect India and that we avoid a third wave. But in the unfortunate case that we have to deal with it again, we are ready,” he said. The Delhi Government has decided to intensify testing at IGI Airport, the Chief Minister said. Passengers are being screened as per the guidelines of the Government of India, but, from December 1, new guidelines will be implemented. 34 new infections Meanwhile, the Capital reported no new COVID-19-related death in 24 hours and the total number of deaths stood at 25,098, as per a bulletin released by the Delhi Government on Tuesday. Thirty-four new cases were reported, taking the total cases to 14,40,934. The test positivity rate (TPR) stood at 0.07%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/delhi-govt-ramps-up-health-facilities-amid-omicron-scare/article37781873.ece
01 December 2021||New Delhi,||Same-sex marriage: plea seeks live-streaming of proceedings||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday asked the Union Government to respond to a fresh application seeking permission to live-stream the court proceedings on a bunch of petitions for recognising same-sex marriages. A Bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh, which is currently seized of five separate petitions of several same-sex couples, posted the hearing in the fresh plea to February 3 next year. Senior advocate Neeraj Kishan Kaul, appearing for three new applicants — Akhilesh Godi, a gay software engineer and a gay couple — said that the issue raised in the petitions was of national importance in particular with respect to the LGBTQ community, which constitutes nearly 8% of the total population of the country. Better reach He sought live-streaming of the court proceedings in the matter, as a good section of the public was eagerly looking forward to the outcome of these cases. Live-streaming would enable the court proceedings to reach a larger population. Some High Courts such as the High Court of Gujarat currently have an official YouTube channel where it live-streams the proceedings. The fresh application filed through advocates Shyam D. Nandan and Siddhart Bambha, referred to the judgments delivered by the Supreme Court emphasising that there should be live-streaming of court proceedings in matters of constitutional and national importance, which has an impact on the public at large. “The issue at hand before this court is of such magnitude and ramification that live-streaming of the said proceedings shall not only have a larger outreach but also help in spreading awareness among the citizens with regard to correct position of law,” the plea said. The High Court also issued notices to the Centre on three additional new petitions by same-sex couples urging the court to recognise their marriages. With these pleas, the number of petitions on the issue before the High Court has now reached eight. The court has tagged all the petitions to be heard collectively with other pending petitions on the issue of declaring the Special Marriage Act and the Foreign Marriage Act to apply to all couples regardless of their gender identity and sexual orientation. Centre against change Earlier, the Centre had opposed any changes to the existing laws on marriage to recognise same-sex marriage, saying such interference would cause ‘a complete havoc with the delicate balance of personal laws in the country’. “Living together as partners and having sexual relationship by same-sex individuals is not comparable with the Indian family unit concept of a husband, a wife and children which necessarily presuppose a biological man as a ‘husband’, a biological woman as a ‘wife’ and the children born out of the union between the two,” the Centre had argued.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/same-sex-marriage-plea-seeks-live-streaming-of-proceedings/article37781871.ece
01 December 2021||New Delhi,||Family of 4 found dead inside house in outer Delhi||A family of four, including a three-year-old boy and a six-year-old girl, was found dead inside their house in outer Delhi’s Sirsapur village on Tuesday morning. At their modest home inside a narrow bylane in the village, Nem Pal, the deceased’s brother, who lives in Jahangirpuri, termed the incident a mystery. “I used to visit them frequently but did not suspect that anything like this could happen... something must have gone wrong behind the four walls of their house that night which we are not aware of,” Mr. Singh told The Hindu . According to family members, the 30-year-old man and the 25-year-old woman got married six years ago and have been living with the man’s elder brother and his family in a two-room house in the village. The deceased was the youngest of four brothers in the family. The man used to work at a nearby factory while the woman was a housewife and only their six-year-old daughter used to go to school, the relatives said. Personal dispute Relatives said the woman had left the house and returned to her maternal home a few months ago over some personal dispute. But things soon returned to normal. “They were living like a happy family again... I do not know what happened on the intervening night and I am still shocked,” said Mr. Singh, adding that it was a mystery how things turned tragic even after the couple had reconciled and were ready to stay together. Saurav, the man’s nephew, was the first to spot the bodies. “No one came out of the room on Tuesday morning. I found that the room was locked from inside after which I peeped through the windows and found the bodies,” he said. Police officers said the man suspected his wife of having an extramarital affair and a legal dispute over the custody of children was going on. “After inquiry, we found that the couple used to fight over petty issues and their relationship had turned sour,” Deputy Commissioner of Police (Outer-North) Brijendra Kumar Yadav said. He said that bodies have been shifted to Babu Jagjivan Ram Hospital in Jahangirpuri and the post-mortem report was awaited.  Suicide prevention helpline: Sanjivini, Society for Mental Health, 011-4076 9002, Monday-Saturday (10 a.m.-7.30 p.m.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/family-of-4-found-dead-inside-house-in-outer-delhi/article37781875.ece
01 December 2021||New Delhi,||Four members of Chhenu gang arrested||Four members of the Chhenu gang have been arrested for allegedly being in possession of a large cache of arms and ammunitions and trying to supply them to criminals in Delhi-NCR, the police said on Tuesday. The accused have been identified as Mohd. Mumtaj, 50, Shahrukh, 26, Sameer, 21, and Irshad, 28. Mr. Mumtaj was the kingpin of the operation, who was also involved in murder and attempt to murder cases and also has a case under the MCOCA lodged against him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/four-members-of-chhenu-gang-arrested/article37781874.ece
01 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Man tries to sell boy after abducting him||A 28-year-old man has been arrested for kidnapping a 10-year-old boy from Shahdara’s Mansarovar Park and taking him to Mumbai with the intention to sell him, police said on Tuesday. DCP (Shahdara) R. Sathiyasundaram said the accused has been identified as Shiv Shankar, a resident of East Nathu Colony. On November 25, the victim’s mother approached the police and said that her child has been missing after which a kidnapping case was registered and investigation was taken up. Subsequently, it was found that their neighbour Shiv Shankar was also missing from the same day. Technical surveillance was mounted and it was found that he was in Mumbai’s Dharavi. Police then contacted Pappu Pardhan, a social worker of Dharavi, who offered to help them. Mr. Pradhan told police that Shiv Shankar used to reside in Dharavi four years ago and he came to Dharavi from Delhi two days ago with a boy, the DCP said. A police team went to Mumbai and arrested the accused before rescuing the boy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/man-tries-to-sell-boy-after-abducting-him/article37781877.ece
01 December 2021||London,||China, Russia, Iran top U.K. threat list: MI6||China, which is increasingly flexing its muscles around the world, is one of the biggest threats to Britain and its allies, and a “miscalculation” by Beijing could lead to war, the head of the U.K.’s foreign intelligence agency said on Tuesday. MI6 chief Richard Moore said that China, Russia, Iran and international terrorism make up the “big four” security issues facing Britain’s spies in an unstable world where both countries and illicit organizations are racing to exploit fast-changing information technology. In his first public speech since becoming head of the Secret Intelligence Service, also known as MI6, in October 2020, Mr. Moore said China is the intelligence agency’s “single greatest priority” as the country’s leadership increasingly backs “bold and decisive action” to further its interests. Calling China “an authoritarian state with different values than ours,” he said Beijing conducts “large-scale espionage operations” against the U.K. and its allies, tries to ”distort public discourse and political decision-making” and exports technology that enables a “web of authoritarian control” around the world. “Beijing’s growing military strength and the party’s desire to resolve the Taiwan issue, by force if necessary, also pose a serious challenge to global stability and peace,” Mr. Moore said. “The Chinese Communist Party increasingly favor decisive action justified on national security grounds. Beijing believes its own propaganda about Western frailties and under-estimates Washington’s resolve. The risk of Chinese miscalculation through overconfidence is real.” Mr. Moore said the U.K. also continues “to face an acute threat from Russia.” He said Moscow has sponsored killing attempts, such as the poisoning of former spy Sergei Skripal in England in 2018, mounts cyberattacks and attempts to interfere in other countries’ democratic processes. “We and our allies and partners must stand up to and deter Russian activity, which contravenes the international rules-based system,” he said. “No country in Europe or beyond should be seduced into thinking that unbalanced concessions to Russia bring better behaviour,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/china-russia-iran-top-uk-threat-list-mi6/article37781436.ece
01 December 2021||Malé,||Maldives ex-leader Yameen released from house arrest||Former Maldives President Abdulla Yameen was released from house arrest on Tuesday after winning an appeal on his money laundering conviction. The former strongman ruled the Indian Ocean archipelago — best known for opulent beachside resorts and their frequent celebrity guests — until his shock election loss in 2018. He was convicted a year later for illegally holding millions of dollars in his bank accounts that had allegedly been stolen from a tourism development agency. A three-member Supreme Court Bench unanimously annulled the five-year jail term and $5 million fine slapped on Mr. Yameen two years ago by a lower court. It finding the earlier trial had not established a proven link between the agency and the money in Mr. Yameen’s accounts, a court official said. Mr. Yameen was originally sentenced to five years’ prison but was released on medical grounds in April and kept under house arrest. During its five years in power, Mr. Yameen’s government regularly jailed opponents or forced them into exile. Current leader Ibrahim Mohamed Solih won an unexpected landslide victory on a pledge to end corruption, and dissidents have since returned to the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/yameen-released-from-house-arrest/article37781434.ece
01 December 2021||Washington,||Pentagon reviews U.S. posture towards China||The U.S. military will reinforce deployments and bases directed at China and Russia, while maintaining forces in the West Asia adequate to deter Iran and jihadist groups, the Pentagon said on Monday, referencing results of a review. The U.S. Defense Department will be upgrading and expanding military facilities in Guam and Australia, underscoring its focus on China as the country’s leading defence rival, officials said. The details of the “global posture review,” commissioned by President Joe Biden’s government early this year, would remain classified, the officials added, so as not to reveal plans to rivals. The move comes in the wake of the formation of a new defence alliance between the U.S., Britain and Australia — dubbed AUKUS — to counter a rising China, which has been building up its own navy and testing decades of U.S. military dominance across Asia. That pact was formed as Beijing solidifies its control over the disputed South China Sea and intensifies its military threats towards Taiwan, of which the U.S. is a key ally and arms supplier. The review confirmed the priority region for the U.S. military was the Indo-Pacific, said Mara Karlin, a top Pentagon policy official. The review “directs additional cooperation with allies and partners across the region to advance initiatives that contribute to deter potential military aggression from China and threats from North Korea,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/pentagon-reviews-us-posture-towards-china/article37781438.ece
01 December 2021||Beijing,||Omicron raises some concern in China over Winter Games||China says the Omicron variant of the coronavirus is a concern for organisers of the Beijing Winter Olympics but it remains confident the games will be held as scheduled in February. The new variant is the latest challenge facing the games, which have taken criticism over the lack of natural snow in the Chinese capital, the country’s human rights record, and tennis star Peng Shuai’s recent accusations of sexual assault against a former top leader of the ruling Communist Party. At a daily briefing on Tuesday, Foreign Ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian said Omicron would “certainly bring some challenges in terms of prevention and control.” “I’m fully confident that the Winter Olympics will be held as scheduled, smoothly and successfully,” Mr. Zhao said. Athletes, staff and journalists will be confined to bubbles for the duration of the competition, which will take place at three far-flung locations in downtown Beijing, its suburb of Yanqing, and neighboring Hebei province. Along with logistical and health concerns, China faces the prospect that the U.S. and its allies will decline to send government officials to the games in protest over China’s treatment of Turkic Muslim Uighurs and other minority groups, along with civil society and human rights activists.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/omicron-raises-some-concern-in-china-over-winter-games/article37781433.ece
01 December 2021||Addis Ababa,||Abiy claims war gains, urges rebels to ‘surrender’||Ethiopian Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed on Tuesday urged Tigrayan rebels to surrender, claiming government forces were nearing victory just one week after he vowed to lead military operations at the front. “It [rebels] should surrender today to the Ethiopian National Defence Force, to the special forces, to the militias and to the people,” Mr. Abiy said. Tuesday’s footage was the latest in a series of clips showing Mr. Abiy, in uniform with soldiers, in what appeared to be the northeastern region of Afar. The region has been the site of fierce fighting in recent weeks as the Tigray People’s Liberation Front (TPLF) rebel group tries to seize control of a critical highway that supplies the capital Addis Ababa. On Sunday, state media claimed the Army controlled the lowland Afar town of Chifra, and Mr. Abiy said on Tuesday such gains would be replicated to the west, in Amhara region. “We scored an unthinkable victory with the eastern command in one day... Now in the west we will repeat this victory,” he said. Fears of a rebel march on the capital have prompted the U.S., France, U.K. and other countries to urge their citizens to leave Ethiopia as soon as possible, though Mr. Abiy’s government says TPLF gains are overstated and the city is secure. A TPLF spokesman on Monday dismissed Mr. Abiy’s deployment as a “circus” involving “farcical war games”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/abiy-claims-war-gains-urges-rebels-to-surrender/article37781435.ece
01 December 2021||Baku,||Azerbaijan Army chopper crash kills 14||Fourteen people died on Tuesday in an Azerbaijani military helicopter crash which went down in the east of the Caucasus country during a training flight, officials said. “Fourteen people died and two more were wounded as a result of a state border service helicopter crash,” the ex-Soviet republic’s frontier guard said in a statement. It said all of the victims were military servicemen. Earlier Tuesday, the country’s border service and prosecutor general said in a joint statement that “a military helicopter belonging to Azerbaijan’s state border service crashed today at Garakheybat airfield in the Khyzy region at approximately 10:40 a.m. (GMT 0640) while conducting a training flight.” The incident came two weeks after Azerbaijan and neighbouring Armenia engaged in the worst fighting along their shared border.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/azerbaijan-army-chopper-crash-kills-14/article37781432.ece
01 December 2021||Baghdad,||Sadr’s bloc is biggest winner in Iraq election||Iraq released final results on Tuesday from last month’s general election, confirming populist Shia cleric Moqtada al-Sadr’s movement’s victory as the biggest bloc, with 73 seats in the fractious 329-seat house. The Taqaddum Party, which draws support from minority Sunni Muslims, won 37 seats. Former PM Nouri al-Maliki’s State of Law group won 33 seats, and the Kurdistan Democratic Party (KDP) secured 31, according to the results.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/sadrs-bloc-is-biggest-winner-in-iraq-election/article37781658.ece
01 December 2021||Kinshasa,||Uganda air strikes target rebels in DRC||Uganda launched air strikes and artillery attacks targeting the Allied Democratic Forces (ADF) rebel group in eastern DR Congo on Tuesday, in an operation agreed with Congolese forces, both sides said. “As announced, targeted and concerted action with the Ugandan army started today with air strikes and artillery fire from Uganda against positions of the terrorist ADF in the DRC,” Congolese Communications Minister Patrick Muyaya said on Twitter. The attack came two days after a senior Congolese source reported that President Felix Tshisekedi had given Uganda permission to pursue the ADF on DR Congo soil, following bombings in the Kampala.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/uganda-air-strikes-target-rebels-in-drc/article37781439.ece
01 December 2021||December 01 2021 00:00 IST,||Small grant but a big opportunity for local bodies||In early November 2021, a potentially game-changing and transformative development went by, almost unnoticed — the release of Rs. 8,453.92 crore to 19 States, as a health grant to rural and urban local bodies (ULBs), by the Department of Expenditure, the Ministry of Finance. This allocation has been made as part of the health grant of Rs. 70,051 crore which is to be released over five years, from FY2021-22 to FY2025-26, as recommended by the Fifteenth Finance Commission. The grant is earmarked to plug identified gaps in the primary health-care infrastructure in rural and urban settings. Of the total Rs. 13,192 crore to be allocated in FY 2021-22, rural local bodies (RLBs) and ULBs will receive Rs. 8,273 crore and Rs. 4,919 crore, respectively. It is significant The allocation in FY2021-22 is relatively small by some comparisons. It would be 2.3% of the total health expenditure (both public and private spending together) of Rs. 5,66,644 crore in India and 5.7% of the annual government health expenditure (Union and State combined) of nearly Rs. 2,31,104 crore (both figures for 2017-18), the most recent financial year for which national health accounts data are available (https://bit.ly/3I39G77). This grant is equal to 18.5% of the budget allocation of the Union Department of Health and Family Welfare for FY 2021-22 and around 55% of the second COVID-19 emergency response package announced in July 2021. Yet, it is arguably the single most significant health allocation in this financial year with the potential to have a far greater impact on health services in India in the years ahead. Good intentions gone wrong In 1992, as part of the 73rd and 74th Constitutional Amendments, the local bodies (LBs) in the rural (Panchayati raj institutions) and urban (corporations and councils) areas were transferred the responsibility to deliver primary care and public health services. The hope was this would result in greater attention to and the allocation of funds for health services in the geographical jurisdiction of the local bodies. Alongside, the rural settings continued to receive funding for primary health-care facilities under the ongoing national programmes. However, the decision proved a body blow, specially to urban health services. The government funding for urban primary health services was not channelled through the State Health Department and the ULBs (which fall under different departments/systems in various States) did not make a commensurate increase in allocation for health. The reasons included a resource crunch or a lack of clarity on responsibilities related to health services or completely different spending priorities. Most often, it was a varied combination of these factors. The well-intentioned legislative step inadvertently enfeebled the health services more in the urban areas than the rural settings. In 2005, the launch of the National Rural Health Mission (NRHM) to bolster the primary health-care system in India partly ameliorated the impact of RLBs not spending on health. However, urban residents were not equally fortunate. The National Urban Health Mission (NUHM) could be launched eight years later and with a meagre annual financial allocation which never crossed Rs. 1,000 crore (or around 3% of budgetary allocation for the NRHM or Rs. 25 per urban resident against Rs. 4,297 per person per year health spending in India). In 2017-18, 25 years after the Constitutional Amendments, the ULBs and RLBs in India were contributing 1.3% and 1% of the annual total health expenditure in India. In urban settings, most local bodies were spending from less than 1% to around 3% of their annual budget on health, almost always lower than what ULBs spend on the installation and repair of streetlights. The outcome has not been completely surprising. Both urban and rural India need more health services; however, the challenge in rural areas is the poor functioning of available primary health-care facilities while in urban areas, it is the shortage of primary health-care infrastructure and services both. Some obstacles Urban India, with just half of the rural population, has just a sixth of primary health centres in comparison to rural areas. Contrary to what many may think, urban primary health-care services are weaker than what is available in rural India. Regular outbreaks of dengue and chikungunya and the struggle people have had to undergo to seek COVID-19 consultation and testing services in two waves of the novel coronavirus pandemic are some examples. The low priority given to and the insufficient funding for health is further compounded by the lack of coordination between a multitude of agencies which are responsible for different types of health services (by areas of their jurisdiction). A few years ago, there were a few reports of three municipal corporations in Delhi refusing to allocate land for the construction of mohalla clinics (an initiative of the State Health Department) and even the demolition of some of the under-construction clinics. It is in this backdrop that the Fifteenth Finance Commission health grant — the urban share is nearly five-fold that of the annual budget for the NUHM and rural allocation is one-and-a-half-fold that of the total health spending by RLBs in India — is an unprecedented opportunity to fulfil the mandate provided under the two Constitutional Amendments, in 1992. However, to make it work, a few coordinated moves are needed. Essential steps First, the grant should be used as an opportunity to sensitise key stakeholders in local bodies, including the elected representatives (councillors and Panchayati raj institution representatives) and the administrators, on the role and responsibilities in the delivery of primary care and public health services. Second, awareness of citizens about the responsibilities of local bodies in health-care services should be raised. Such an approach can work as an empowering tool to enable accountability in the system. Third, civil society organisations need to play a greater role in raising awareness about the role of LBs in health, and possibly in developing local dashboards (as an mechanism of accountability) to track the progress made in health initiatives. Fourth, the Fifteenth Finance Commission health grants should not be treated as a ‘replacement’ for health spending by the local bodies, which should alongside increase their own health spending regularly to make a meaningful impact. Fifth, mechanisms for better coordination among multiple agencies working in rural and urban areas should be institutionalised. Time-bound and coordinated action plans with measurable indicators and road maps need to be developed. Sixth, local bodies remain ‘health greenfield’ areas. The young administrators in charge of such RLBs and ULBs and the motivated councillors and Panchayati raj institution members need to grab this opportunity to develop innovative health models. Seventh, before the novel coronavirus pandemic started, a number of State governments and cities had planned to open various types of community clinics in rural and urban areas. But this was derailed. The funding should be used to revive all these proposals. A much-awaited springboard India’s health system needs more government funding for health. However, when it comes to local bodies, this has to be a blend of incremental financial allocations supplemented by elected representatives showing health leadership, multiple agencies coordinating with each other, increased citizen engagement in health, the setting up of accountability mechanisms and guiding the process under a multidisciplinary group of technical and health experts. The Fifteenth Finance Commission health grant has the potential to create a health ecosystem which can serve as a much-awaited springboard to mainstream health in the work of rural and urban local bodies. The Indian health-care system cannot afford to and should not miss this opportunity. Dr. Chandrakant Lahariya, a physician-epidemiologist, is a vaccines and health systems specialist, based in New Delhi||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/small-grant-but-a-big-opportunity-for-local-bodies/article37781420.ece
01 December 2021||December 01 2021 00:00 IST,||India’s informal economy has not shrunk||According to a recent State Bank of India (SBI) Research report, the informal economy in India has been shrinking since 2018. Formalisation, the report says, has taken place through the gross value-added (GVA) route, consumption through increased digital payments, and the employment route. Let’s examine each of these. The report claims that the share of the informal sector is just 15-20% in 2021 compared to 52.4% in 2018. If that was the case, India would have become a ‘miracle’ economy overnight, since no upper-middle-income economy in Latin America or the ASEAN or any low-middle-income country has achieved this kind of transformation. On the other hand, since the COVID-19 outbreak, informality of enterprises and workers has increased in all such economies. There is an internationally recognised definition of informality of enterprises and workers. In the 15th International Conference of Labour Statisticians (1993) of the International Labour Organization, household enterprises not constituted as separate legal entities independently of the households or household members that own them, and for which no complete accounts are available, are categorised as informal enterprises. In the 17th Conference (2003), informal workers were defined as those without social security. Based on these definitions, internationally, comparable estimates of both types of informality are available. India’s levels are 80% and 91%, respectively. The latter is higher because there are also informal workers within formal enterprises. Misleading claim The SBI study adopts multiple definitions of formality (digitisation, registration in GST, cashless payments), which are not used by anyone. These could be possible instruments of encouraging formality, but cannot separately or even together be equated with formality. The SBI study confuses the shrinking of the informal sector’s share of the GDP due to demonetisation and COVID-19’s impact on the economy with formalisation. The informal sector was adversely impacted by the lockdowns and the consequent economic contraction. The sectors that were most impacted by the lockdowns were those with higher informality. Even formal sector activities which are considered informal (outsourcing and contractual activities) were curtailed heavily during the lockdowns. The decline in informal activities might be the cause of the fall in share of the informal sector of the GVA. To term this as formalisation is misleading at best and cruel at worst. We don’t know if this GVA fall is temporary or permanent. It has clearly led to a fall in employment, especially in the non-farm sector, while the share of agricultural workers in total employment rose sharply between 2018-19 and 2019-20 (NSO’s Periodic Labour Force Survey). Agriculture is almost entirely informal for enterprises as well as workers. Catastrophically, for already informal workers, the absolute number of workers in agriculture rose from 200 to 232 million between 2018-19 and 2019-20. This was a reversal of the trend of structural transformation in employment underway since 2004-05 — shown by the first-ever absolute fall in workers in agriculture from 2012 to 2019. Registration on e-Shram Another reason that the SBI claims that informality declined is the number of workers registered in the new e-Shram portal. Since the portal’s launch, over 9.9 crore unorganised workers have registered themselves. However, registration means documentation, not formalisation, of workers. Workers who are ‘formal’ receive social security benefits. Giving such benefits is not the objective of the portal; the objective is to develop a national database of unorganised workers. After registration on the portal, the workers receive a card with a 12-digit unique number, which is good. The government has announced linking accident insurance with e-Shram registration. At present, there is no credible database for India’s unorganised workers. In 2020, government pleaded helplessness in providing numbers pertaining to the number of migrant workers who had suffered or died during the lockdowns. These migrant workers were and are part of the broad unorganised sector. Mere registration under this portal does not guarantee access to institutional social security benefits or coverage under labour laws. Benefits such as Provident Fund, gratuity and maternity benefits will remain outside the reach of unorganised workers as conceptualised in the Social Security Code of 2020. All these instruments were and are available only to establishments with 10 or 20 or more workers. Also, the SBI study notes that West Bengal tops the list in registration. This is no surprise. Over 1.3 crore unorganised workers are already registered under various social security schemes in West Bengal. A share of them is now registering themselves on the new portal. Further, the formal sector has been treated as a homogenous entity in the study. In reality, there are various layers within the formal sector. Not all workers engaged in the formal sector are ‘formal’. There has been large-scale informalisation of the formal sector over the last three decades through contractualisation and outsourcing of labour. Among wage workers, the proportion of non-permanent, casual and contract workers increased in the organised sector from 1999-00 to 2011-12. It marginally decreased after that but the pandemic once again changed the numbers. Thus, a significant portion of the output attributed to the formal sector is actually produced by an informal workforce within the formal sector. A blurred distinction The systematic dismantling of employer-employee relations in the labour market blurs the distinction between formal and informal. The entire edifice of the formal sector is based on informal workers. There are layers of intermediaries between the employers and the workers to create a disconnect between them. Such a disconnect is deliberate rather than organic. For example, the majority of the output in construction is attributed to the formal sector. But most workers in the construction sector are informal. They don’t have access to social security benefits or protective labour laws. They remain informal throughout their lives even though their contribution is attributed to the formal sector. Thus, contrary to what has been asserted in the research, the formal sector’s contribution has been overestimated and the informal sector’s contribution has been underestimated. Eighty-four per cent of Indian non-farm establishments are informal by their own account. Some might get registered under miscellaneous laws but that does not imply that they have become formal. Registration under the Factories Act or Employees’ Provident Fund or State insurance means that these organisations are formal as the organisation needs 10 or 20 employees to be registered under these laws. But mere registration under other acts like local municipal acts or tax laws does not indicate formalisation. Thus, the SBI’s claim that significant formalisation has occurred in India is unfounded. Santosh Mehrotra is Research Fellow, IZA Institute of Labour Economics, Bonn; Kingshuk Sarkar is Labour Commissioner, Kolkata||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/indias-informal-economy-has-not-shrunk/article37781429.ece
01 December 2021||December 01 2021 00:00 IST,||Afghanistan, the rise of a narco-terrorist state||India’s anxieties over ungoverned spaces and lawless Afghanistan turning into a significant source of internal security threat are gradually turning into reality. According to a report by the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC), opium production in Afghanistan has crossed 6,000 tonnes for the fifth consecutive year. The reported rise in global opium prices has resulted in the exponential production of opiates increasing by 8%. The Taliban, cash-strapped and still looking to establish a semblance of order in the country they captured in August 2021, could indeed be looking to generate revenue from the illegal cash crop, as cases of smuggling and seizures of large consignments of drugs in India have started increasing, indicating a turn towards this trend. Almost a free-for-all For the past several decades, Afghan opiates have entered India through circuitous routes, sea as well as air, involving Pakistan, Sri Lanka, African countries such as Mozambique and South Africa, and Qatar. Carriers of drugs, individuals arrested in various airports in the country with small quantities, as well as the massive recoveries made in various States of western India, have only been the proverbial tip of the iceberg. The huge recoveries of heroin in Gujarat alone — 3,000 kilograms in September and 120 kilograms in October — bear testament to the fact that the fall of Kabul and its capture by the Taliban may have initiated free-for-all narcotic smuggling waves, which unless checked, have the potential of destabilising India’s security. A mammoth ‘illicit’ economy The fact that, under the Taliban, opium production would increase in Afghanistan was a foregone conclusion notwithstanding the initial statements by the Taliban leadership to gain international recognition. Over the years, the Taliban have minted money from this sector, by promoting its production, taxing it and also by overseeing its smuggling either into Pakistan or Iran, thereby building a mammoth illicit economy with strengthening linkages to terrorist groups as witnessed in the cases of the Organization of Al-Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb (AQIM), the Islamic State, the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia (FARC), Hezbollah and others. According to United Nations officials, the group likely earned more than $400 million between 2018-19 from the drug trade. The trend appears to have remained unchanged as in May 2021, a report by the United States Special Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction (SIGAR) estimated that the Taliban derive up to 60% of their annual revenue from illicit narcotics. Notwithstanding the handful of European States where the domestic narcotics trade is well regulated, accompanied by official policies that consider access to narcotics as a matter of individual right, there is a global consensus that narcotics itself can devastate societies and money derived from the narco-trade can fuel organised crime and terror activities. The world seems oblivious However, in today’s Afghanistan, the Taliban seem to be taking advantage of the vacuum and detached attitude of the international community. This could partly be rooted in the global failure in adopting an appropriate counternarcotic policy to rein in the narco-trade originating from Afghanistan between 2001 and 2020. The rise of a narco-terrorist state will have serious consequences for the U.S., Europe and the region. The UNODC’s achievement in this regard was limited to ensuring a minor dip in the area under poppy cultivation and production of opium. Promotion of alternate livelihood programmes and pushing farmers to grow other cash crops largely failed due to a variety of reasons. These included the limited reach of the central government in Kabul and a punitive policy advocated by the international community which sought the use of force to destroy standing opium crops without adequately compensating the farmers or providing them with alternative livelihoods. As a result, not only did the narco-infrastructure in Afghanistan remain largely intact but it also flourished by having developed a symbiotic nexus and indigenous facilities to produce methamphetamine pills. As the United States and the international community gradually sought to extricate themselves from the Afghan quagmire, production shot up and is projected to spike in the coming years. Implications for India Organised crime develops its own survival and thriving dynamics. Countries with the best of intentions and abilities fail to turn the tide, which is fuelled by such an unholy nexus. Afghanistan, where neither the intention nor the ability to disrupt the trade exist, is emerging as a major narco-empire. Some of the members of the Taliban regime, particularly the Haqqani network, share well-documented connections with the organised crime network. Whether the global community in general and countries such as India in particular afford to take a detached view towards the enveloping situation remains a critical question. From New Delhi’s perspective, its efforts to curb terror finance at home would achieve only limited results if anti-India groups such as the Lashkar-e-Taiba and the Jaish-e-Mohammed, now yet again operating in Afghanistan, manage to tap into the money from such narco-trade. Outreach to the Afghans The antidote to this phenomenon is a legitimate, responsible, empowered, and inclusive government in Kabul. Economic collapse of the Afghan state and the evolving humanitarian crisis must be prevented. Reaching out to the Afghans and amplifying their voices in having a government that is legitimate and acceptable to them would be a first step in the right direction. While the Delhi Regional Security Dialogue on Afghanistan (November 10, 2021) did try to reach out to the regional countries, India should look for new alliances in Central, West, and South Asia to stitch a coalition of the willing. It is time for New Delhi to step up and reach out to the larger sections of Afghan society including women and civil society groups, political leaders and business groups, who are looking for assistance in having a legitimate, representative and inclusive leadership in their country. A failed state in the neighbourhood combined with narco-terrorism cannot be ignored and will have serious consequences for India’s security in the days to come. Shanthie Mariet D’Souza is Professor, Kautilya School of Public Policy, Hyderabad, founder-president, Mantraya and non-resident scholar, Middle East Institute, Washington DC||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/afghanistan-the-rise-of-a-narco-terrorist-state/article37781422.ece
01 December 2021||December 01 2021 00:00 IST,||Controlling the crypto genie||Elon Musk may be the real crypto piper, for cryptocurrencies dance to his tunes. Crypto prices shot up when Tesla announced that it has invested $1.5 billion in Bitcoin and when Mr. Musk said that Tesla would accept Bitcoin as payment for its electric cars. They slumped when he reversed that decision and tweeted that Bitcoin prices “seem high”. Nature of cryptocurrencies What is the true nature of such highly volatile cryptocurrencies? New York University Professor Nouriel Roubini considers Bitcoin a “pseudo-asset” that is pumped by “massive manipulation”. Whether the crypto hype is a ‘bubble’ is still a matter of speculation. While crypto-assets or cryptocurrencies are being embraced by many, they are under fire mostly by the officialdom in many parts of the world, primarily because the transaction process using cryptocurrencies is so secure that only a money transfer can be seen and nothing can be known about the sender and the recipient. These decentralised assets, with no central bank controlling them, may therefore be used for ‘hawala’, which is a trust-based system of transferring money quickly in a parallel arrangement avoiding the traditional banking system and escaping the due tax. Anonymity and privacy are the underlying characteristics as well as the potential danger of cryptocurrencies. There have been money laundering charges using cryptocurrencies. Shadows of cryptocurrencies loom in the supply of money for terrorist activities. Cryptos have become the preferred payment system for hackers in ransomware attacks. And so, the bid to put the genie back in the bottle was inevitable. But how is that possible and to what extent? At one extreme we have China which has almost banned cryptocurrencies and introduced its own centrally regulated digital currency called Digital Renminbi. At the other extreme we have El Salvador which is the first country to use Bitcoin as legal tender. While many parts of the world are planning to clip the wings of cryptocurrencies, El Salvador is planning to build the world’s first ‘Bitcoin City’, funded initially by Bitcoin-backed bonds. The idea may be to harness the cryptocurrency to fuel investment in the country. The International Monetary Fund, however, recently said that Bitcoin should not be used as legal tender in El Salvador and urged the country to strengthen the regulation and supervision of its newly established payment ecosystem. The standpoints of the U.K., the U.S., and most countries of the European Union seem to be in between. Many countries try to regulate it to some extent and also tax Bitcoin gains in their own ways. Under the scanner In India, cryptocurrencies were under the scanner for some time. In 2018, the then Union Finance Minister said, “The government does not recognise cryptocurrency as legal tender or coin and will take all measures to eliminate the use of these cryptoassets in financing illegitimate activities or as part of the payments system.” A high-level government committee recommended a ban on all cryptocurrencies, except those issued by the state. Then, in 2020, the Supreme Court revoked the curb on cryptocurrency trade imposed by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI). The Cryptocurrency and Regulation of Official Digital Currency Bill of 2021 is listed for introduction this Parliament session. It seeks to “prohibit all private cryptocurrencies in India” but allow for “certain exceptions to promote the underlying technology and its uses”. It also aims to “create a facilitative framework” for the creation of the official digital currency to be issued by the RBI. Of course, the digital currency of a central bank may not look like a real substitute for a decentralised cryptocurrency to many users. A few weeks ago, there was speculation whether strong regulations would be imposed and income from crypto taxed in India. There was also speculation about a blanket ban, which led to a slump in the prices of major cryptocurrencies. It is not clear what kind of regulation is going to be imposed finally. A regulated market will certainly keep illegal activities under control to some extent. Most of the common investors will comply with the rules and substantial money will be gained from taxes. But is it at all possible to completely stop hawala, drug or terror funding by crypto with such regulations? Recently, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said cryptocurrencies must not fall into the “wrong hands and spoil our youth” and urged all democratic nations to come together and ensure that things like these do not happen. Of course, unless all nations work together, the genie cannot be completely controlled. And, unfortunately, that’s a remote possibility. For the time being, countries are imposing their own regulations. And Mr. Musk’s tweets might continue to regulate the crypto dance. Atanu Biswas is Professor of Statistics, Indian Statistical Institute, Kolkata||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/controlling-the-crypto-genie/article37781425.ece
01 December 2021||December 01 2021 00:00 IST,||A new president and some hope||The fear of being consumed by the ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which is slowly gathering steam in Telangana, has pushed the Congress to focus on strengthening its cadre base and become relevant once again. The formation of Telangana was a very emotive issue. The Congress thought it would gain from the birth of the new State. But since 2014, the party has only been diminishing in strength. Its poor performance has largely been due to infighting between senior leaders who projected themselves as chief ministerial candidates. Also, the defection of MLAs to the ruling party after the 2014 and 2018 elections badly damaged the Congress’s organisational strength. Now, hope has emerged for the many loyal party workers in the form of the new president, A. Revanth Reddy, a sitting Congress MP from Malkajgiri. After the 2018 polls, the party steadily lost its support base of Dalits and Muslims. In an effort to win them back, Mr. Reddy organised the ‘Dalita-Girijana Dandora’ to “expose” Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao’s unkept electoral promises made to Dalits and girijans. Meetings were held deep inside the Adilabad forests and in the heart of the Gajwel constituency represented by Mr. Rao. They were successful and sent a signal to the cadres that the party cared about its support base and was willing to take on the powerful. But that euphoria was largely dampened by the outcome of the Huzurabad bypoll where the Congress lost deposit. The contest was seen as a fight between Eatala Rajender, who fell out with the TRS party leadership and joined the BJP, and the TRS’s Gellu Srinivas Yadav. Congress leaders argued that Huzurabad hasn’t been a Congress seat for decades, but the result nevertheless hurt the party. Hopes of a revival also faced a roadblock in the form of the BJP that won both the Dubbak and Huzurabad bypolls. “The Congress losses exposed the party’s crumbling organisational structure,” a senior leader said. While the new Pradesh Congress Committee team has revived the practice of holding weekly meetings and programmes, these are only baby steps. Unless the party offers a new narrative instead of merely criticising Mr. Rao’s policies and his alleged corruption, it will fail to attract voters. The Congress’s social engineering plan is important given the growing political aspirations among the Backward Classes (BC) — communities that the BJP is assiduously wooing while also keeping the Reddy community happy. The Congress must ensure that leaders emerge from smaller and unrepresented BC communities that have gained strength over the years and not just from the Munnuru Kapu community. There is also the problem of differences between senior leaders. However, when former Minister and Bhongir MP Komatireddy Venkat Reddy, a strong critic of Mr. Reddy, shared the dais with the PCC president at the Vari Deeksha (paddy protest) for the first time, it gave hope to the cadres that the senior leaders were trying to bury their differences. Mr. Reddy is charismatic and dynamic but these traits will not revive the party’s fortunes and help it dethrone a strongman like Mr. Rao. Since Mr. Reddy is also known to be inaccessible, he has to first change that about himself before trying to transform the party. Mr. Reddy has spent many years working under Telugu Desam Party chief, N. Chandrababu Naidu, whose organisational skills are well known. At the same time, he has to instill the confidence that late Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy instilled in the party. Everyone hopes to win elections but few have the will to prepare for the contest and make difficult decisions. The Congress cadre hopes that Mr. Reddy has that will. ravikanth.ramasayam@thehindu.co.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-new-president-and-some-hope/article37781431.ece
01 December 2021||December 01 2021 00:00 IST,||Sweden’s fresh start||In appointing its first ever woman Prime Minister, former Finance Minister and member of the Social Democratic Party Magdalena Andersson, Sweden joined other Nordic nations that have had a woman as a leader. Ms. Andersson’s entry was unusually dramatic — she was thrust into the prime ministerial berth for scarcely a few hours last week as she had to resign owing to a coalition partner, the Green Party, quitting government after its budget proposal was defeated in the Riksdag. Nevertheless, she went on to secure the top position on a firmer footing after another vote was held where she surpassed the threshold for maximum level of opposition to her prime ministership — she faced 173 ‘nay’ votes whereas it would have taken 175 of those to keep her from taking up the leadership mantle. She takes over from her predecessor, Stefan Löfven, in complex political circumstances, given that he was heading a caretaker government after being defeated in a vote of no confidence in June 2021. Hailing originally from the university town of Uppsala, Ms. Andersson’s political innings kicked off in 1996 when she became a political adviser to erstwhile Prime Minister Göran Persson. She embodies the classic Swedish ideal of hard work and rising steadily through the ranks on the merit of her performance, an exceptional achievement given the male-dominated arena of Swedish politics. Yet, Ms. Andersson can hardly afford to rest on her laurels as the road ahead for her government and party may well be a bumpy one. The immediate challenge is of economic governance, and it arises from the fact that the Social Democrats are charged with implementing a budget passed by the Swedish opposition, including the neo-Nazi elements of the right-wing Sweden Democrats Party. While there is cause for cheer given that the opposition budget was based on the government’s own proposal, the stumbling block for her administration may be the fact that of the 74 billion kronor that it hoped to spend on reforms, only a little over 20 billion kronor will be available to her government in 2022. This tightening of purse strings could dent her ambitious plans to carry out much-needed social reforms, especially in the areas of climate change, welfare policies and measures to combat gang violence and organised crime activity, both of which have risen alarmingly in recent years in cities such as Stockholm, Malmo and Gothenburg. While some analysts consider Ms. Andersson to be not opposed to dealing with right-wing parties, they acknowledge that her position “softened”, during the pandemic, manifested in greater willingness to borrow to fund green investments, and in allowing the state to have a greater control of the welfare sector. Her ability to build bridges with the opposition while yet staying true to the Social Democrats’ core party values will define her legacy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/swedens-fresh-start/article37781415.ece
01 December 2021||December 01 2021 00:00 IST,||Protect, don’t pander||The ‘heckler’s veto’ seems to be winning repeatedly against stand-up comedian Munawar Faruqui. Bengaluru has joined the list of cities in which Mr. Faruqui cannot perform because right-wing Hindutva groups routinely threaten to disrupt his shows, wherever they are scheduled to be held. The Bengaluru city police asked the organisers to put off a show on November 28, alleging that allowing it to go on would create law and order problems and disrupt peace and harmony. Mr. Faruqui was unjustly arrested in Indore in January after a BJP functionary’s son complained that he was about to denigrate Hindu gods in a planned show. He had to spend 37 days in prison before obtaining bail from the Supreme Court for remarks that had not been made in a show that did not take place. It is this case, in which the police arrested even local organisers and those selling tickets for the show and had nothing to do with the content of his performance, that has been cited by the Bengaluru police while voicing fears about the consequences of allowing the show to be held. Earlier, programmes in which he was due to perform in Raipur, Mumbai, Surat, Ahmedabad and Vadodara were called off for the same reason. It is a telling commentary on the state of free speech in the country that anyone can be silenced anywhere by the threats posed by violent and vociferous groups that no regime in the country seems to be able to rein in. In a despairing reaction, Mr. Faruqui has said, “Goodbye! I’m done”, indicating that he has no further hope that he would be allowed to exercise his constitutional right to express himself. This is reminiscent of Tamil writer Perumal Murugan declaring his own “death” in a literary sense after being silenced by conservative and religious groups. In Mr. Murugan’s case, he was fortunate that the Madras High Court resurrected the author in him with a stirring verdict underscoring the duty of the state to protect free speech and to preserve law and order, instead of placating those who threaten to take the law into their own hands. It is a pity that the police authorities perfunctorily advise authors, speakers and artists to remain silent rather than take proactive steps to protect their fundamental rights. It is true that whenever such issues go before a court of law, the resulting judgments are speech-protective, but the proclivity of the authorities to pander to chauvinist groups is posing a serious threat to free expression in society. The Supreme Court’s observation in S. Rangarajan etc. vs P. Jagjivan Ram (1989) that suppressing free speech in response to a threat of demonstration or protest “would be tantamount to negation of the rule of law and a surrender to blackmail and intimidation” seems to have few takers among those in positions of power.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/protect-dont-pander/article37781416.ece
01 December 2021||December 01 2021 00:00 IST,||Anger about family planning drive||Salem, Nov. 30: The Salem branch of the Tamil Nadu Elementary Schools Teachers’ Association yesterday decided to hold a rally at all panchayat union headquarters on December 4 and in Salem on December 5 to protest against the hardships to which the Association said, the teachers were subjected in connection with the family planning campaign. The Association decided to observe hunger-strike on December 6 if all orders regarding the suspension of teachers, transfer of teachers, ayahs, etc., were not withdrawn before December 5. It expressed concern over the suspension of teachers and Panchayat Union staff for not producing two patients for vasectomy operation under the family planning programme. The Association criticised suspension of classes in schools, to enable teachers to get patients. A copy of the resolution was presented to Mr. P. Sankaran, District Collector, to-day. In the Salem District Development Council to-day, Mr. P. Muthuswami, M.L.C., said that in the district teachers were being harassed and punished for their failure to achieve the target fixed for them under the family planningdrive by orders of suspension and transfers to distant places.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/anger-about-family-planning-drive/article37781423.ece
01 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Core sector growth rebounds||India’s core sector output growth accelerated in October, with the Index of Eight Core Industries (ICI) expanding 7.5% on the back of appreciable increases in the production of cement, coal, refinery products and electricity. September’s growth estimate was revised to a 4.5% pace. All sectors, except crude oil, recorded positive year-on-year growth in October. Output in October was also 7.3% higher than September’s four-month-low print of the index. The eight core sectors together account for 40.27% of the weight of items included in the Index of Industrial Production (IIP). Coal and cement production grew 14.6% and 14.5%, respectively. Electricity production rose 2.8% year-on-year, but fell 0.8% from the preceding month. Growth in steel output, however, slowed to an 11-month low of 0.9%, marking a streak of six successive months of deceleration. Compared to September 2021, however, production expanded by 3.7%. “The divergence in the double-digit growth of cement with the marginal rise in steel is reflective of the cutbacks in auto production, whereas construction activity appears to be healthy,” said ICRA chief economist Aditi Nayar. Natural gas and refinery products posted expansions of 25.8% and 14.4%, respectively, aided largely by a base effect. Output contracted 8.6% and 17%, respectively, in October 2020. The overall growth of 7.5% was ‘higher than expected’ and enthusing even though it wasn’t broad based, observed Ms. Nayar. She attributed the acceleration in core sector momentum to petroleum refinery products, which reflected rising mobility, and the ramping up of coal, cement and electricity output. With the 22% contraction in auto output likely to drag October’s IIP growth to below 2.5%, Ms. Nayar reckoned that core sector growth would also likely slow in November to less than 5%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/core-sector-growth-rebounds/article37781399.ece
01 December 2021||CHENNAI,||Star Health IPO draws bids for 12% shares on sale on first day||The Rs. 7,249 crore initial public offering of Star Health and Allied Insurance Co. Ltd., received bids totalling 0.12 times the shares on offer from non-institutional and retail investors on the first day of the sale. At the upper end of the share’s Rs. 870-Rs. 900 price band, the bids for 53.19 lakh shares would net Rs. 478 crore, according to exchange data. Star, a leading private health insurer, is backed by billionaire investor Rakesh Jhunjhunwala. “Starting with a humble share capital of Rs. 108 crore, today Star Health has entered the capital market to garner about Rs. 7,249 crore to maintain its solvency level and to keep its flag flying high,” said executive chairman V. Jagannathan. Noting that the insurer had secured more than Rs. 9,000 crore in gross written premium during the last fiscal year, Mr. Jagannathan said “this describes our growth story”. Expressing confidence in the business model, he said: “We are dealing with customers. We offer them good service. The attrition rate in our company is minimum as we follow a ‘family culture’.” The insurer currently operates about 1,000 offices spread across the country and is supported by a network of five lakh agents, 10,000 employees and 450-500 doctors, he added. Star Health’s IPO comprises fresh issue of shares worth Rs. 2,000 crore and an offer for sale by promoters and existing shareholders for about Rs. 5,249 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/star-health-ipo-draws-bids-for-12-shares-on-sale-on-first-day/article37781398.ece
01 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Rising tariff, moratorium to help telcos in 5G play’||The recent tariff increase and moratorium on government dues will give telcos room to invest an estimated up to Rs. 1.8 lakh crore for 5G services, according to rating agency Crisil. The agency said that after having invested about Rs. 5 lakh crore over the 2017-2021 period to roll out 4G services, they would now need to invest in the 5G roll-out before reaping returns. “We foresee investments of at least Rs. 70,000 crore at the 5G spectrum auctions likely next fiscal — if the bidding is prudent. “But the four-year moratorium on government dues announced by the Cabinet recently could provide annual cash flow relief of [about] Rs. 32,000 crore over the next four years,” Crisil added. It said an estimated 20% improvement in the average revenue per user per month, rung up by recent tariff hikes and ongoing customer upgrades, could lift the operating profit of the sector by 40% to Rs. 1 lakh crore in fiscal 2023 compared with fiscal 2021.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/rising-tariff-moratorium-to-help-telcos-in-5g-play/article37781401.ece
01 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘India 5G subscriptions to reach 500 mn by 2027’||Fifth generation telecom services are likely to account for 39% of mobile subscriptions or about 500 million subscriptions in India at the end of 2027, according to a report by Ericsson. The ‘Ericsson Mobility Report’ added that the total number of smartphone subscriptions is expected to be 810 million at the end of 2021 and is projected to grow at a compounded annual growth rate of 7%, exceeding 1.2 billion by 2027. “Smartphone subscriptions accounted for 70% of total mobile subscriptions in 2021 and are projected to constitute around 94% in 2027, driven by rapid smartphone adoption in the country,” it said, adding that 4G is expected to remain the dominant technology in India in 2027. “However, 4G subscriptions are forecast to drop from 790 million in 2021 to 710 million in 2027, showing an annual average decline of 2%. Thus, 4G subscriptions are expected to reduce from 68% of mobile subscriptions in 2021 to 55% in 2027 as subscribers migrate to 5G,” it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/india-5g-subscriptions-to-reach-500-mn-by-2027/article37781403.ece
01 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||TRAI seeks comments on 5G pricing, auction||Telecom regulator TRAI on Tuesday released a detailed consultation paper seeking stakeholder input for more than 70 questions related to auctioning of spectrum that will be used to offer 5G service. Letter from DoT The consultation paper follows a September 13 letter from the Department of Telecommunications (DoT), requesting the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (TRAI) to provide recommendations on ‘Auction of spectrum in the frequencies identified for International Mobile Telecommunications (IMT) / 5G”. These included issues such as applicable reserve price, quantum of spectrum to be auctioned, associated conditions such as upfront payments, applicable moratorium period after the payments and the number of deferred payment instalments. “In this consultation paper specific issues have been raised for consideration of stakeholders... Written comments on the issues raised in the Consultation Paper are invited from the stakeholders by December 28, 2021 and counter-comments by January 11, 2022,” the regulator said.  Issues under discussion include applicable reserve price, quantum of spectrum to be auctioned and upfront payments||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/trai-seeks-comments-on-5g-pricing-auction/article37781404.ece
01 December 2021||New Delhi,||Excise mop-up from fuels doubled in FY21||The central government’s mop-up from excise duty levied on petrol and diesel more than doubled to Rs. 3.72 lakh crore in the pandemic year 2020-21, out of which States were given less than Rs. 20,000 crore, according to a reply by the government in the Rajya Sabha on Tuesday. Minister of State for Finance Pankaj Chaudhary in a written reply to a question stated that collection from levy of central excise duty on petrol and diesel increased from Rs. 1.78 lakh crore in 2019-20 to Rs. 3.72 lakh crore in 2020-21. The increase in the collection was mainly on account of rise in the incidence of taxation on fuels. Excise duty on petrol was Rs. 19.98 per litre in 2019 and Rs. 15.83 on diesel. The government raised excise duty twice last year to Rs. 32.98 per litre on petrol and to Rs. 31.83 on diesel. The duty was moderated to Rs. 32.90 on petrol and Rs. 31.80 on diesel in the Budget this year. It was cut by Rs. 5 a litre on petrol and Rs. 10 on diesel recently.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/excise-mop-up-from-fuels-doubled-in-fy21/article37781408.ece
01 December 2021||New Delhi,||Fiscal deficit was 36.3% of estimate at end-October||The government’s fiscal deficit stood at Rs. 5.47 lakh crore or 36.3% of budget estimates (BE) at end-October on the back of improvement in revenue collection, according to data released by the Controller General of Accounts (CGA) on Tuesday. The deficit figures in the current fiscal compare with the 119.7% difference between expenditure and revenue mainly on account of a jump in expenditure to deal with the pandemic. In absolute terms, fiscal deficit was Rs. 5,47,026 crore at the end of October, the CGA said. For FY22, the Centre expects the deficit at 6.8% of GDP or Rs. 15.06 lakh crore. ICRA chief economist Aditi Nayar said gross tax revenue is likely to exceed the FY22 BE by Rs. 1.7 lakh crore, of which about Rs. 60,000 crore would be shared with the States. Vivek Jalan, partner, Tax Connect Advisory, said budgeted GST collection was almost Rs. 1 lakh crore a month and already in seven months of the fiscal the mop-up has reached Rs. 8 lakh crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/fiscal-deficit-was-363-of-estimate-at-end-october/article37781412.ece
01 December 2021||MUMBAI,||RBI appoints advisory panel for RelCap||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Tuesday constituted a three-member advisory panel to assist the Administrator of Reliance Capital Ltd. in the discharge of his duties. The members of the Advisory Committee include Sanjeev Nautiyal, former Deputy MD, State Bank of India, Srinivasan Varadarajan, former Deputy MD, Axis Bank and Praveen P. Kadle, former MD and CEO, Tata Capital Ltd. The RBI had on Monday superseded the board of directors of Reliance Capital and had appointed Nageswara Rao Y, former executive director, Bank of Maharashtra, as the Administrator.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/rbi-appoints-advisory-panel-for-relcap/article37781395.ece
01 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Twitter tweaks private info policy||Twitter on Tuesday updated its private information policy that will allow the micro-blogging platform to take action on media that is shared without any explicit abusive content, but was posted without the consent of the person depicted. “There are growing concerns about the misuse of media and information. Sharing personal media, such as images or videos, can potentially violate a person’s privacy, and may lead to emotional or physical harm,” the company said in a blog. “When we are notified by individuals depicted, or by an authorised representative, that they did not consent to having their private image or video shared, we will remove it,” it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/twitter-tweaks-private-info-policy/article37781405.ece
01 December 2021||Mumbai,||‘Non-food bank credit grew at 6.9%’||Non-food credit growth of banks accelerated to 6.9% in October as against 5.2% in the same month of last year, RBI data showed. Loans to agriculture and allied activities continued to perform well, registering an accelerated growth of 10.2% in October 2021 as compared with 7.2% in October 2020, according to the RBI’s Sectoral Deployment of Bank Credit – October 2021 data, released on Tuesday. The growth in credit to industry picked up to 4.1% in October 2021 from a contraction of 0.7% in October 2020. Size-wise, credit to medium industries registered a robust growth of 48.6% in October 2021 as compared with 20.8% last year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/non-food-bank-credit-grew-at-69/article37781406.ece
01 December 2021||HYDERABAD,||NMDC slashes iron ore prices||NMDC has reduced iron ore prices by Rs. 750 for a tonne of Lump and by Rs. 200 for the same quantity of Fines. Effective November 30, the new prices are Rs. 5,200 per tonne for Lump Ore and Rs. 4,560 for Fines, the country’s largest iron producer said in a filing on Tuesday. NMDC had last changed the prices in October to Rs. 5,950 and Rs. 4,760 respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/nmdc-slashes-iron-ore-prices/article37781394.ece
01 December 2021||New Delhi,||Go Fashion shares jump over 81 pc in debut trade||Shares of Go Fashion, which owns women’s clothing brand Go Colors, on Tuesday settled with over 81% gains against its issue price of Rs. 690. It listed at Rs. 1,316, reflecting a steep jump of 90.72% on the BSE. The stock further surged 94.34% to Rs. 1,341 during the day. It zoomed 81.53% to close at Rs. 1,252.60. On the NSE, it made its debut at Rs. 1,310, jumping 89.85%.pti||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/go-fashion-shares-jump-over-81-pc-in-debut-trade/article37781409.ece
01 December 2021||New Delhi,||No proposal to merge public sector general insurance companies: MoS Karad||The government on Tuesday informed the Rajya Sabha that there was no proposal under consideration as of now to merge public sector general insurance companies. There are four general insurance companies — New India Assurance Company, National Insurance Company Limited (NICL), United India Insurance Company Limited (UIICL) and Oriental Insurance Company Limited (OICL).pti||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/no-proposal-to-merge-public-sector-general-insurance-companies-mos-karad/article37781410.ece
01 December 2021||Paris,||Lionel Messi in seventh heaven||Argentina’s Lionel Messi won the Ballon d’Or award for the best player in the world for a record-stretching seventh time on Monday, beating Robert Lewandowski and Jorginho to lift football’s most prestigious trophy yet again. The forward added to his 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012, 2015 and 2019 trophies after winning the Copa America for the first time with his country last July. “It’s incredible to be here again. Two years ago I thought it was the last time. Winning the Copa America was key,” said Messi. Messi, who joined Paris St. Germain after finishing as LaLiga’s top scorer with the Spanish club, collected 613 points, with Bayern Munich’s Lewandowski, named best striker on Monday, getting 580. Jorginho, who won the Champions League with Chelsea and the European championship with Italy, ended up third on 460. Chelsea, named club of the year, also had keeper Edouard Mendy finishing second in the Yashin Trophy behind Italy’s Gianluigi Donnarumma. The women’s Ballon d’Or Feminin went to Alexia Putellas after the Spain midfielder guided Barcelona to Champions League glory. “The key moment was the Champions League final against Olympique Lyonnais,” she said. On a good night for Barcelona, 19-year-old Pedri was awarded the Kopa Trophy for the best Under-21 player.  Top of the charts Lionel Messi (7 times) Christiano Ronaldo (5) Johan Cruyff (3) Marco van Basten (3) Michel Platini (3)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/lionel-messi-in-seventh-heaven/article37781706.ece
01 December 2021||KANPUR,||Ashwin, the tireless trier, stood out||Surprisingly, on the final day of the first Test, the batting skills of three New Zealand spinners proved just a wee bit more effective than the combined skills sets of India’s spin trio. After all, R. Ashwin, Ravindra Jadeja and Axar Patel were chosen to take 20 wickets on a pitch expected to aid spin more than it eventually did at the Green Park Stadium here. Batting skills On the other hand, Kane Williamson chose spinners William Somerville, debutant Rachin Ravindra and Ajaz Patel largely for their batting skills to, at best, save the Test. It did pan out that way. Interestingly, all six spinners gave a good account of their batting skills, at least once, in the match. If Jadeja came up with a timely half-century in the first innings, Ashwin and Axar played their part in India’s resurrection in the second. For New Zealand, Somerville batted out the first session of the final day before Ravindra and Ajaz produced a match-saving 52-ball association at the end. Significantly, Ravindra batted out 91 deliveries — that is 15.1 overs — in an exemplary display of sense of purpose and last-man Ajaz played out 23 deliveries, including the tense final over. Of these six spinners, Ashwin stood taller for contributing more. Clearly, the best spinner on view, Ashwin played a stellar role with the bat in the second innings when India was in deep trouble. Walking in at 51 for five, Ashwin began the Indian resurrection before Shreyas Iyer reproduced the form that saw him score a century-on-debut in the first innings. Not many noticed that Ashwin dominated the 52-run stand with a strokeful 32. It was an example of how seriously Ashwin takes his batting. After all, he has five Test centuries and 11 half-centuries from 81 Tests. Technique and tactics Unlike Jadeja and Axar, who rely much on the assistance from the pitch to be effective, Ashwin uses all the technique and tactics to fox the batters. The off-spinner, with a variety of potent weapons in his armoury, has the temperament to deal with wicketless phases and never gets tired of trying. Now that the action shifts from the black-soil Green Park pitch to Wankhede Stadium’s red-soil strip, expect Ashwin to go all out as if to make amends for that ‘missed wicket’ at Kanpur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ashwin-the-tireless-trier-stood-out/article37781654.ece
01 December 2021||KOZHIKODE,||Kerala women post their first win||Kerala defeated Uttarakhand 3-1 to post its first victory in the National senior women’s football championship at the Corporation Stadium on Tuesday, but it wouldn’t be enough. Mizoram’s 4-0 win against Madhya Pradesh later in the day should take it to the knock-out stage from Group G. Kerala in its last match will take on Madhya Pradesh, while Mizoram will play Uttarakhand. Reigning champion Manipur scored the biggest win of the day, as it thrashed Puducherry 12-0, with Irom Prameshwori Devi netting five goals, at Koothupramba. Railways, the runner-up in the last edition, made short work of Dadra & Nagar Haveli 5-0 at the Calicut University Stadium with Mamta scoring four goals, including a traditional hat-trick.  The results (preliminary league): Group A: Daman & Diu 2 (Nirmala Durve 51, Jeewanti 79) bt Meghalaya 1 (Ibashisha Khongwet 34).   Manipur 12 (Irom Prameshwori Devi 1, 7, 21, 31 & 47, Yangoijam Kiranbala Chanu 8 & 70, Salam Rinaroy Devi 23, Moirangthem Mandakini Devi 45+3, M. Preetha 49-og, Thingbaijam Babysana Devi 66, Kangabam Anita Devi 82) bt Puducherry 0.   Group B: Railways 5 (Mamta 28, 49, 66 & 76, Surpiya Routray 31) bt Dadra & Nagar Haveli 0.   Group F: Odisha 7 (Subhadra Sahu 22, 23 & 38, Satyabati Khadia 25, 28 & 45+1, Suman Pragyna Mohapatra 48) bt Gujarat 0.   Group G: Kerala 3 (Vinitha Vijayan 44, K. Manasa 75, Femina Rag 86) bt Uttarakhand 1 (Bhagwati Chauhan 52).   Mizoram 4 bt (Lalnunsiami 11, Elizabeth Vanlalmawii 46, Zairemmawii Chawngthu 49, Grace Lalrampari Hauhnar 54) bt Madhya Pradesh 0.   Group H: Haryana 4 (Jyoti 18, Vidhi 22, Tanu 71, Pooja 75) bt Andhra 0 .   Manipur thrashed Puducherry 12-0 with Irom Prameshwori Devi netting five goals||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kerala-women-post-their-first-win/article37781709.ece
01 December 2021||Mumbai,||Tried and tested players mostly retained||Six of the eight existing Indian Premier League franchises retained the tried and tested players for the forthcoming season. However, Sunrisers Hyderabad and Punjab Kings did spring a surprise by retaining uncapped Indian players. With K.L. Rahul moving on, Punjab retained Mayank Agarwal and the uncapped Arshdeep Singh. Hyderabad retained Jammu and Kashmir young guns Abdul Samad and Umran Malik, along with its captain Kane Williamson. “In the retention process, the franchise deals with the players and their respective agents. So, in case a player is not happy with the package offered by the franchise, he can break the deal and head to the auction pool,” a senior Board official said. “The franchises usually try to get their best players on board. But there are times when the player decides otherwise,” he explained. Punjab Kings head coach Anil Kumble revealed that the team did try to retain Rahul but it was the India international’s decision to move on. “We wanted to retain him and that’s one of the reasons we chose him as the captain two years ago, so that he could be the fulcrum of the team. But he decided to go into the auction, and we respect that. It’s a player’s prerogative,” Kumble told the official broadcaster Star Sports . Rahul is likely to lead the Lucknow franchise.  The retained players:   Chennai Super Kings: Ravindra Jadeja (Rs. 16 crore), Mahendra Singh Dhoni (Rs. 12 crore), Moeen Ali (Rs. 8 crore), Ruturaj Gaikwad (Rs. 6 crore).   Kolkata Knight Riders: Andre Russell (Rs. 16 crore), Varun Chakravarthy (Rs. 12 crore), Venkatesh Iyer (Rs. 8 crore), Sunil Narine (Rs. 6 crore).   Sunrisers Hyderabad: Kane Williamson (Rs. 14 crore), Abul Samad (Rs. 4 crore), Umran Malik (Rs. 4 crore).   Mumbai Indians: Rohit Sharma (Rs. 16 crore), Jasprit Bumrah (Rs. 12 crore), Suryakumar Yadav (Rs. 8 crore), Kieron Pollard (Rs. 6 crore).   Royal Challengers Bangalore: Virat Kohli (Rs. 15 crore, Glenn Maxwell (Rs. 11 crore), Mohammed Siraj (Rs. 7 crore).   Delhi Capitals: Rishabh Pant (Rs. 16 crore), Axar Patel (Rs. 12 crore), Prithvi Shaw (Rs. 7.5 crore), Anrich Nortje (Rs. 6.5 crore)   Rajasthan Royals: Sanju Samson (Rs. 14 crore), Jos Buttler (Rs. 10 crore), Yashasvi Jaiswal (Rs. 4 crore).   Punjab Kings: Mayank Agarwal (Rs. 14 crore), Arshdeep Singh (Rs. 4 crore) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tried-and-tested-players-mostly-retained/article37781651.ece
01 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Rajshree clinches air rifle gold||Rajshree Sancheti of Delhi won the women’s air rifle gold as she beat Zeena Khitta of Himachal Pradesh by 1.7 point in the 64th National shooting championship in Bhopal on Tuesday. The 26-year-old Rajshree was remarkably consistent with her last six shots and wound up very well with 10.5 and 10.4 to win the competition in a field of 559 shooters. Qualification topper Shreya Agrawal (631.4) won the bronze as she edged ahead of Aayushi Gupta by a half point. Olympian and former World No.1 Elavenil Valarivan shot 626.8 for the 12th spot, as she missed the final by 0.6 point. Olympian and world record holder Apurvi Chandela had a below par 98.7 in the fifth series and placed 167th with a total of 617.3. World championship silver medallist Anjum Moudgil shot 623.8 for the 35th place. Narmada Nithin won the junior gold for Tamil Nadu as she closed the final with a perfect 10.9. She beat Zeena Khitta by 1.7 point. In the mixed skeet event in Patiala on Monday, Mairaj Ahmad Khan and Areeba Khan won the gold for Uttar Pradesh as they beat Punjab’s Gurjoat Singh and Ganemat Sekhon 4-3 in the shoot-off after the two teams were tied on 34. At the Dr. Karni Singh Range in Tughlakabad, Vijayveer Sidhu won both the men’s and junior gold with a score of 581 in the 25-metre standard pistol, a non-Olympic event. Interestingly, Sameer and Harsh Gupta also bagged the silver and bronze respectively in both the sections.  The results: Men: 25m standard pistol: Men: 1. Vijayveer Sidhu 581; 2. Sameer 577; 3. Harsh Gupta 575.   Juniors: 1. Vijayveer Sidhu 581; 2. Sameer 577; 3. Harsh Gupta 575.   10m air rifle: Women: 1. Rajshree Sancheti 251.8 (628.9); 2. Zeena Khitta 250.1 (627.4); 3. Shreya Agrawal 227.7 (631.4).   Juniors: 1. R Narmada Nithin 252.1 (627.5); 2. Zeena Khitta 250.4 (627.4); 3. Pahuni Pawar 227.6 (627.7).   Youth: 1. Anshika Gupta 250.4 (625.8); 2. Ramita 249.9 (628.3); 3. Mansi Pansare 228.4 (625.8).   Skeet: Mixed team: 1. Uttar Pradesh (Mairaj Ahmad Khan, Areeba Khan) 34(4) 140; 2. Punjab (Gurjoat Singh, Ganemat Sekhon) 34(3) 142; 3. Rajasthan (Darshna Rathore, Anantjeet Singh Naruka) 36 (136); 4. Haryana (Raiza Dhillon, Arjun Singh Mann) 34 (133).   Juniors: 1. Telangana (Munek Battula, Zahra Deesawala) 32(4) 134; 2. Haryana (Sanjana Sood, Ishaan Singh) 32(3) 134; 3. Punjab (Abhay Singh Sekhon, Parinaaz Dhaliwal) 33 (133); 4. Madhya Pradesh (Rituraj Singh Bundela, Vanshika Tiwari) 24 (130) .   Vijayveer Sidhu won both the men’s and junior gold in the 25m standard pistol, a non-Olympic event||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rajshree-sancheti-clinches-air-rifle-gold/article37781858.ece
01 December 2021||Chennai,||Ravindra has a cool head on young shoulders||Ahead of his momentous Test debut, Ravi Krishnamurthy gave his son Rachin Ravindra valuable advice. He told the young cricketer, “Do not get emotional. It leads to a confused mental state. Use logic and common sense.” And the left-handed Ravindra, displaying great composure and an organised game, did just that. The southpaw defied the Indian spinners on a fifth day pitch, batting 91 deliveries for an unbeaten 18, to force a heroic draw in the Kanpur Test. Ravi, a software engineer who emigrated to New Zealand from Bangalore in the mid-90s, eats and breathes cricket. Keeping it simple Asked about Ravindra overcoming a pressure situation, Ravi, speaking to The Hindu from his home in Wellington, said, “Pressure is a perception. It’s what you feel in the mind. Keep your mind relaxed. Rachin understands this. Keeps it simple.” Ravi, the founder of Hutt Hawks which sends a team to India every year, said, “You are surrounded by close-in catchers, there are five of them. Fine, don’t talk to them. Just play the ball on merit. Keep your mind blank.” Ravindra, now 22, has been playing with a hard cricket ball since the age of five, Ravi revealed. “All his visits to India and batting in the hot conditions and on pitches offering turn certainly helped in his Test debut.” Father and son have several conversations on cricket. Ravi said, “Some of the hardest tasks in cricket have kindergarten solutions!” Ravi stayed awake at night to watch Ravindra’s match-saving innings. “Obviously I am happy. He has come through schools and age-group cricket. Can bowl useful left-arm spin too. He’s a great kid, very mature for his age and likes a laugh.” Greatest strength Queried about his son’s greatest strength, Ravi replied “His calmness”. Ahead of the India tour, Ravi advised Ravindra, who opens for Wellington, to play five sessions to force a draw against the strong Canterbury. The ball was seaming around and swinging at the Basin Reserve, yet Ravindra batted four and a half sessions for his 70. “He almost pulled it off. Mentally, he gave everything.” Ravi said, Ravindra has a power game but can adapt to conditions and situations. And guess why he named him Rachin? It’s a combination of Rahul [Dravid] and Sachin [Tendulkar]. And Dravid being Dravid would have appreciated Rachin’s innings even if it was against his own team. Rachin is here to stay.  Some of the hardest tasks in cricket have kindergarten solutions! Ravi Krishnamurthy Ravindra’s father   The name Rachin is a combination of Rahul [Dravid] and Sachin [Tendulkar]||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ravindra-has-a-cool-head-on-young-shoulders/article37781641.ece
01 December 2021||Nassau (Bahamas),||I will play a round here or there, says Woods||The popular version of Tiger Woods, the golfer with the insatiable drive to win trophy after trophy, may be a thing of the past. Woods, yet to fully recover from his February car crash, believes that he is a long way from competing at the top level. “As far as playing at the Tour level goes, I don’t know when that’s going to happen. I’ll play a round here or there — a little hit and giggle. To see some of my shots fall out of the sky a lot shorter than they used to is eye-opening,” Woods said in a media interaction here on Tuesday. Major injuries Woods, who suffered major injuries to his leg as a result of the crash, arrived here as the host of the Hero World Challenge. Woods, however, will not feature in the playing field. The 15-time Major winner stated he feared losing his leg. “I could have lost my leg on the surgery table. When I woke up (from the surgery), I tested it. I felt the full weight on both legs. I thought “Okay, I didn’t lose my leg. That’s a positive’. After that, we had a few more procedures before I could get out of the hospital. “But I’m alive. I didn’t lose a limb. I’m very thankful for that,” he said. “My mental space is a lot better now. Right after the accident, I wasn’t able to do much. Being able to get outside, even if it’s just walking across my property, was awesome. I’m not a 9 to 5 guy, who clocks in and clocks out. I’m an outdoor guy. Staying indoors was the hard part,” Woods said.  In 2019, Woods scripted a famous comeback from a fusion surgery on his back to win the Masters. This time around, though, there is unlikely to be a fairytale run. “I don’t see that type of (comeback) trend going forward for me. I won’t have the opportunity to practise, given the condition of my leg,” Woods, 45, said. The mental and physical grind of working his way to the top does not appeal to Woods. “I don’t foresee this leg ever being what it used to be. The clock is ticking; I’m not getting any younger. A full tournament schedule, a full practice schedule and the recovery that it would take to do that — I don’t have any desire to do that. But I can ramp up for a few events a year,” Woods said. ( The writer is in Nassau on invitation from Hero MotoCorp )  I’m not a 9 to 5 guy, who clocks in and clocks out. I’m an outdoor guy. Staying indoors was the hard part||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ill-play-a-round-here-or-there-says-woods/article37781646.ece
01 December 2021||December 01 2021 00:00 IST,||Birthday-boy Carlsen signs peace treaty||Birthday-boy Magnus Carlsen chose to play it safe against a well-prepared Ian Nepomniachtchi and forced a 33-move draw following perpetual checks in Game Four of their World chess championship title-clash in Dubai on Tuesday. With the sequence of draw continuing, the players are locked 2-2. On Wednesday, in the fifth game, Nepo plays with white pieces. Nepo, playing black, employed the rarely-played Petroff Defence after Carlsen started by pushing his king-pawn to the fourth rank. Following theory The game followed 17 moves of well-known theory before Carlsen deviated on his 18th move, taking just seven seconds to play his knight to the extreme-right file. At this point, Nepo took about five and a half minutes to find a risk-free continuation. Later, Carlsen took 22 minutes on Move 25 and another 34 minutes for Move 30 but could not find any concrete plan. Three moves later, the game ended.  The moves:   Game 4: White: Carlsen; Black: Nepomniachtchi   1. e4 e5 2. Nf3 Nf6 3. Nxe5 d6 4. Nf3 Nxe4 5. d4 d5 6. Bd3 Bd6 7. O-O O-O 8. c4 c6 9. Re1 Bf5 10. Qb3 Qd7 11. Nc3 Nxc3 12. Bxf5 Qxf5 13. bxc3 b6 14. cxd5 cxd5 15. Qb5 Qd7 16. a4 Qxb5 17. axb5 a5 18. Nh4   g6 19. g4 Nd7 20. Ng2 Rfc8 21. Bf4 Bxf4 22. Nxf4 Rxc3 23. Nxd5 Rd3 24. Re7 Nf8 25. Nf6+ Kg7 26. Ne8+ Kg8 27. d5 a4 28. Nf6+ Kg7 29. g5 a3 30. Ne8+ Kg8 31. Nf6+ Kg7 32. Ne8+ Kg8 33. Nf6+ game drawn.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/birthday-boy-carlsen-settles-for-a-draw/article37781656.ece
01 December 2021||December 01 2021 00:00 IST,||Smith will get a second chance at captaincy soon, and why not?||Test cricket is a game of second chances. Of all the ways in which it imitates life, this is the most subtle as well as the most powerful. A batsman dismissed for nought in the first innings gets a chance to score a century in the second; a bowler wicketless at first go can take five before the match is completed. Every player has a chance to redeem himself. The concept of the second chance is built into our religions based on the undeniable fact that as human beings we make mistakes. We lie, we cheat, we make poor judgements, we play across the line, we misjudge a throw and get run out. We also make amends, compensate, retribute. Low points of the game When we get caught, we pay for it. When Steve Smith was Australia’s captain, he was banned for a year for the ball tampering episode (‘sandpapergate’) in the Newlands Test in South Africa. It was one of the low points of the game — a captain deliberately hatching a plot to cheat the opposition by altering the state of the ball using sandpaper. And then getting a junior member of the team to carry out the physical act before the cameras on the field of play. It was an act of desperation or stupidity — or entitlement, depending on your idea of the Australian cricket ethos. Smith bid a tearful (but temporary) farewell to cricket. He was just 29 then — youth was never an excuse, of course — and must have known he might get back the top post one day. Now that he is vice-captain to Pat Cummins in the Ashes series next week, that chance is just a niggle away. Smith made 774 runs in the last Ashes series, returning to the game after a year’s ban (his captaincy ban ended in March 2020). As Greg Chappell wrote in a newspaper column, quoting Gandhi, “No human being is so bad as to be beyond redemption.” Not in good light Chappell was speaking of Tim Paine, the man chosen to lead Australia and clear up the stench of that ball tampering scandal that rocked world cricket. It turned out recently that Paine had been sexting a colleague back in 2018, and although Cricket Australia had exonerated him then, the fear that the story was about to go public caused Paine to quit, and the administrators to let him go having cleared him earlier. It doesn’t show Cricket Australia in good light. Cricket captains are no longer picked on the basis of their strategic or technical brilliance but on their image as clean, virtuous human beings who will not cause sponsors any embarrassment. In Australia currently such a player is Cummins, and his insistence on having Smith as vice captain has brought the latter a step closer to the job he once held. Cummins has given us a new term too — “elevated vice- captaincy”, by which he means that his deputy will be leading the team on and off, especially when Cummins himself is in the middle of a bowling spell. Redemption built into it Smith has expressed remorse. He will have to live with the consequences of the failure of his leadership in the Test which saw Aussie behaviour at its worst. When he was punished, the possibility of redemption was built into it, as Cricket Australia made clear then. Redemption cannot come without forgiveness; forgiveness follows remorse. But first there has to be acceptance or acknowledgement of the offence. This is the lesson from South Africa’s Truth and Reconciliation commission which looked into the wrongdoings during the apartheid era and led to amnesties. When the sandpaper scandal first broke, many felt that Smith and the others ought to be banned for life. They had brought the game into disrepute, after all. And it was not a spur-of-the-moment act. The idea of a pre-determined attack on the fairness of the game was reprehensible to many including the then Australian Prime Minister who spoke out. Result of strong sentiment Others, including former England great Mike Brearley felt the reaction was as much a result of strong sentiment against a team that gave the impression of being entitled and claimed to play “hard but fair” but had now been shown up. Technically, ball tampering was only a Level 2 offence in the game (it has now been promoted to a Level 3 offence). Smith turned 32 this year (Cummins is 28), and has a few good years of cricket left. He has paid his debt for a deed however disgraceful, and deserves a second chance like anybody else. “Cricket is played by human beings,” wrote Brearley in his Spirit of Cricket , “We have to learn to suffer and endure periods of impotence and vulnerability. Everyone is liable to backslide. We need justice to be both discriminating and tempered with mercy…” That applies to both cricket and life.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/smith-will-get-a-second-chance-at-captaincy-soon-and-why-not/article37781699.ece
01 December 2021||Chennai:,||State women’s football league postponed||The Tamil Nadu State women’s football league scheduled to begin on December 1 (Wednesday) at the Nehru Stadium has been postponed to December 5 (Sunday) due to waterlogging at the venue. FC Thamizhatchi will take on Wow Women’s FC and Minerva FC will face Tamil Nadu Police on the first day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/state-womens-football-league-postponed/article37781764.ece
01 December 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||India will look to tighten its defence||When Belgium head coach Jeoren Baart said his team struggled against Malaysia in the pool stage because of its tight defence, probably he gave away a cue to India on the eve of the men’s hockey Junior World Cup quarterfinal contest between the two sides at the Kalinga Stadium here. For India, which loves its free-flowing attacking hockey, it would be a challenge though. India’s weaknesses came to the fore early on in the tournament when its defenders’ vulnerability in the face of swift counterattacks from France resulted in the defending champion’s 5-4 shock defeat in its first pool engagement. Formidable side India chief coach Graham Reid said India’s last win in the 2016 final over Belgium had only a little significance as the present side, which got its DNA from its current World No. 1 senior side, was a formidable one. “We also saw some vulnerability the Malaysians were able to capitalise on and hopefully we can do that tomorrow,” said Reid, while listing India’s strengths including counter-attacks, variety of drag-flickers and midfield. Reid said India must intercept better. “That's the area we have been working mostly.” India will miss the services of forward, Maninder Singh, who picked up an injury in the last match and has been replaced by Bobby Singh. Baart wanted his side to maintain its structure to survive the waves of attack from India. “It will be a fantastic match-up with a lot of aggression from India and a lot of control from us,” said Baart. The Belgian coach acknowledged the threat from the Indian drag-flickers.  The results (9th-16th places): South Africa bt Canada 7-3; Pakistan bt USA 18-2; Poland bt Chile 2-1; Korea vs Egypt 3-3 (Shootout Korea bt Egypt 6-5).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/india-would-look-to-tighten-its-defence/article37781648.ece
01 December 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Harendra delighted to see US-based Indians’ enthusiasm for hockey||For Harendra Singh, it has been inspiring to find the emotional connect between the people of the Indian community in the USA and hockey. During his experience so far as the USA men’s head coach, Harendra has been delighted to see the US-based Indians’ enthusiasm for hockey. “We won the 1932 Olympics gold under Dhyan Chand. The Indians over there remember that even today. When we won a medal in this Olympics, I think the way India celebrated it, the Indians over there celebrated similarly. “That’s why they were up in the middle of the night (to watch India’s matches) and then used to Whatsapp me next morning about the match. I think that connection is still there,” Harendra, who is accompanying the USA side as a mentor in the ongoing men’s Junior World Cup here, told The Hindu .  In a country where women’s hockey is more famous, Harendra, who has been working with an aim to develop the USA men’s team by the 2028 Los Angeles Olympics, began his job by banking on their legacy. “There were just three teams (1932), but the USA is also a bronze medallist of the Olympics. I went to see that legacy where they played (Los Angeles Memorial Coliseum). I called the maximum number of kids to that place for my first camp. I told them about their history. “LA City will host the Olympics for a third time — 1932, 1984 and now 2028. We are preparing a project with that target in mind. We have appointed a lot of coaches, (drawn up) coaching patterns (specially the skills) and worked on improving grassroots hockey and imparting the skills.” Harendra, a former India coach, listed his targets. “Short-term target was related to the JWC… USA has never played in a senior World Cup and that’s one of the short term targets. The long- term target is to qualify for the Paris Olympics because when you qualify for the Olympics, your funding, mileage and sponsorship increases.” Closing the gap On the current junior team, which suffered some big losses, Harendra said: “It’s not that USA hockey will do wonders in six months, but definitely we can close the gap. As a mentor I tell them how to close the gap. We will try to prepare the team for 2028. We would like to give them a pathway.”  When we won a medal in this Olympics, I think the way India celebrated it, the Indians over there celebrated similarly||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/harendra-aims-to-develop-us-mens-team-by-2028-games/article37781815.ece
01 December 2021||LONDON,||Illingworth reveals cancer diagnosis||Former England captain Ray Illingworth revealed he is receiving treatment for cancer. The 89-year-old, who led England to an Ashes triumph in Australia in 1970-71, is undergoing radiotherapy for oesophageal cancer. Illingworth said  he was hoping for a bit of luck.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/illingworth-reveals-cancer-diagnosis/article37781710.ece
01 December 2021||Hyderabad:,||Incredulous claims feature event||Trainer D. Netto’s Incredulous (A.A. Vikrant up) claimed the Raja Narasimha Rao Memorial Cup, the main event of Tuesday’s (Nov. 30) races. The winner is owned by Mr. C. Nanda Kumar, Mr. Polkumpally Saikumar & Mr. Donald Anthony Netto. Jockey Akshay Kumar stole the limelight by winning four races.  1. OSMAN SAGAR PLATE (DIV. I) (1,200m) Maiden, 3-y-o & upward, rated upto 25 (Cat. III): STAR CRUISE (Akshay Kumar) 1, Stark (Abhay Singh) 2, Good Tidings (N.B. Kuldeep) 3 and Acadian Angel (Rafique Sk.) 4. Not run: Sea Wolf. 3-1/2, 1/2 and Nk. 1m, 13.10s. Rs. 14 (w), 14, 12 and 31 (p). SHP: 38, THP: 61, SHW: 11 and 21, FP: 58, Q: 42, Tanala: 537. Favourite: Star Cruise. Owner: Mr. Ch Naga Nancharayya. Trainer: S. Sreekant.  2. GOLDEN DAGGER PLATE (DIV. I) (1,200m), 4-y-o& upward, rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III): ANGEL TESORO (A.A. Vikrant) 1, Top In Class (Surya Prakash) 2, Bloom Buddy (Akshay Kumar) 3 and Sacred Lamp (B. Nikhil) 4. Nk, 1-1/2 and 1/2. 1m, 13.13s. Rs. 95 (w), 23, 73 and 13 (p). SHP: 260, THP: 44, SHW: 52 and 112, FP: 5,695, Q: 2,214. Tanala: 86,632. Favourite: Monarchos. Owners: Mrs. Marie Prasad, Mr. Munawar Hussain & Mr. K. Pradhyumna Reddy. Trainer: Sk Waseem Ahmed.  3. GOLDEN DAGGER PLATE (DIV. II) (1,200m), 4-y-o & upward, rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III): AERIAL COMBAT (Akshay Kumar) 1, Aibak (Aneel) 2, Circumin (Akash Rajput) 3 and Star Racer (Kiran Naidu) 4. 2, Sh and Hd. 1m, 11.90s. Rs. 12 (w), 12, 17 and 19 (p). SHP: 51, THP: 43, SHW: 15 and 52, FP: 92, Q: 84, Tanala: 406. Favourite: Aerial Combat. Owner: Mr. Ashok Kumar Gupta. Trainer: R.H. Sequeira.  4. SALAR JUNG CUP (1,100m), 3-y-o & upward, rated 40 to 65 (Cat. II): BRILLIANT VIEW (Akshay Kumar) 1, Beauty On Parade (G. Naresh) 2, Menilly (C.S. Jodha) 3 and Different (Md. Ismail) 4. Not run: Trump Star. 3-3/4, 1/2 and 1-1/4. 1m, 4.35s. (record time) Rs. 24 (w), 12, 21 and 11 (p). SHP: 85, THP: 66, SHW: 21 and 93, FP: 366, Q: 311, Tanala: 803. Favourite: Menilly. Owner: Mr. Teja Gollapudi. Trainer: Laxman Singh.  5. FLYING TREASURE PLATE (1,600m), 5-y-o & upward, rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III): MISS MARVELLOUS (Akshay Kumar) 1, Dillon (B. Nikhil) 2, Linewiler (C.S. Jodha) 3 and Dunkirk (Surya Prakash) 4. Hd, Nk and 1-1/2. 1m, 39.03s. Rs. 18 (w), 14, 35 and 15 (p). SHP: 81, THP: 61, SHW: 21 and 60, FP: 173, Q: 187, Tanala: 690. Favourite: Miss Marvellous. Owners: Mr. Srinivas Pangam & Mrs. Nirupama Chodagam. Trainer: L. D’Silva.  6. RAJA NARASIMHA RAO MEMORIAL CUP (1,200m), 5-y-o & upward, rated 40 to 65 (Cat. II): INCREDULOUS (A.A. Vikrant) 1, Her Legacy (Kiran Naidu) 2, N R I Elegance (Akshay Kumar) 3 and Green Turf (Gaurav Singh) 4. Nk, 3-1/4 and Nk. 1m, 11.14s. Rs. 85 (w), 22, 16 and 17 (p). SHP: 57, THP: 47, SHW: 41 and 33, FP: 655, Q: 289, Tanala: 2,103. Favourite: Green Turf. Owners: Mr. C. Nanda Kumar, Mr. Polkumpally Saikumar & Mr. Donald Anthony Netto. Trainer: D. Netto.  7. OSMAN SAGAR PLATE (DIV. II) (1,200m) Maiden, 3-y-o & upward, rated upto 25: SILK (Santosh Raj) 1, Joy O Joy (Surya Prakash) 2, Challenger (Nakhat Singh) 3 and Air Salute (N.B. Kuldeep) 4. Not run: Reining Queen. 4, 1-1/4 and 3/4. 1m, 12.95s. Rs. 20 (w), 11, 12 and 13 (p). SHP: 40, THP: 37, SHW: 13 and 16, FP: 69, Q: 55, Tanala: 170. Favourite: Silk. Owner: Mr. Maddali Sai Kumar. Trainer: G. Shashikanth. Jackpot: 70%: Rs. 2,202 (213 tkts.) & 30%: 324 (619 tkts.); Mini jackpot: (i) 987 (33 tkts.), (ii) 1,901 (30 tkts.); Treble: (i) 607 (67 tkts.), (ii) 733 (78 tkts.).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/incredulous-claims-feature-event/article37781716.ece
01 December 2021||KUALA LUMPUR,||Indian teams begin well||Indian teams had a winning start to their campaign in the Asian team squash championships on Tuesday. While the men beat Iraq and Philippines 3-0, the women scored an identical win over Philippines.  The results: Men: Pool A: India 3 bt Iraq 0 (Ramit Tandon bt Rasool Hashim Al-Sultani 11-9, 11-8, 11-3; Mahesh Mangaonkar bt Abdullah Hashim Al-Sultani 11-4, 11-2, 11-2; S. Velavan bt Hasanain Obeid Dakheel 11-4, 11-3, 11-4).   India bt Philippines 3-0 (Saurav Ghosal bt Robert Andrew Garcia 11-8, 11-8, 11-4; Mangaonkar bt David William Pelino 11-1, 11-6, 11-6; Velavan bt Reymark Bergomia 11-5, 11-7, 11-2).   Women: Pool B: India 3 bt Philippines 0 (Joshna Chinappa bt Jemyca Aribado 11-3, 11-8, 11-4; Sunayna Kuruvilla bt Yvonne Alyssa Dalida 11-4, 11-2, 11-2; Urwashi Joshi bt Lizette Reyes 11-2, 11-3, 11-2) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/indian-teams-begin-well/article37781717.ece
01 December 2021||KOCHI,||A bunch of fighters from Lakshadweep||Milton Antony has never been to Lakshadweep and the three weeks he has been in charge of the islands football team are clearly not enough to bring about a magical transformation. Lakshadweep plays Kerala in the Santosh Trophy’s South Zone qualfiers which begin at the Nehru Stadium here on Wednesday and Antony is confident of one thing. “They may not be much individually, they don’t have any outstanding players, but they are capable of doing well collectively,” said Antony, the Lakshadweep coach who hails from Ernakulam, in a chat with The Hindu . “They have good fighting spirit, so we can’t say what will happen.” The Lakshadweep men, who made their first Santosh Trophy debut in 2016-17, may not stand a chance against Kerala but they have a big goal before them. “The goal is to play good football so that more players come up in Lakshadweep. They want to be an inspiration for the youngsters back home,” said Antony, a former assistant coach of the Kerala Santosh Trophy team. Not play frequently Footballers in Lakshadweep don’t get to play the sport frequently. “We have smaller grounds so nines football is popular. And we don’t have daily sessions, just a few days training before tournaments because there will be just one ground in every island. And that is also where all the functions will be held,” said Salahudeen, the team’s manager. “The annual inter-island tournament, a nine-team affair, is the only tournament they play back home. Our players don’t get any exposure. If they get good coaching, they will come up well.” The team includes twins Mohammed Aimen and Mohammed Azhar, who grew up in Kochi as their father is employed here and they played for the Kerala Blasters reserve team. The team’s camp was held at Kakkkayam, in Kallanode on the Kozhikode-Wayanad border, a hilly area where the frequently changing weather surprised the players. The Lakshadweep boys are also capable of pulling off a surprise. They shocked Telangana 1-0 and also gave a bit of a scare to Tamil Nadu in their Santosh Trophy debut season in January 2017. The South Zone Group ‘B’ also includes Puducherry and Andaman and Nicobar and offers a few chances for Lakshadweep to try a trick or two.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/a-bunch-of-fighters-from-lakshadweep/article37782014.ece
01 December 2021||December 01 2021 00:00 IST,||ATK MB looks to forget memories of past season||Last year’s runner-up ATK Mohun Bagan will be seeking to obliterate the hurtful memories of the previous season when it hosts champion Mumbai City FC in Fatorda, on Wednesday. The two teams had been the most consistent names which gunned for the title last season, but it was Mumbai City FC which stole the march denying ATK MB the chance to win both the league winner’s shield and eventually the title. MCFC beat ATK MB on all the three occasions they met in the league stage and the final. Desired leverage ATK Mohun Bagan resolved to get over the repeated setbacks and roped in the Mumbai City’s most creative possession, Hugo Boumous in the new season. This has given the Mariners the desired leverage as it won both its first two outings with convincing ease. The confidence of outplaying its traditional rival SC East Bengal in the previous round will help ATK Mohun Bagan, which has looked formidable in the 3-5-2 formation instilled by head coach Antonio Lopez Habas. Mumbai City has looked a bit hesitant under Des Buckingham, who assumed charge ahead of the new season. The shock 1-3 loss against the supposed underdog Hyderabad FC in the previous outing will be weighing on the holder as it looks to get back the winning rhythm. With lot of quality under his command, Buckingham will be hoping the Islanders will spring back to their dominant form.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/atk-mb-looks-to-forget-memories-of-past-season/article37781856.ece
01 December 2021||December 01 2021 00:00 IST,||Karnataka’s pride||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/karnatakas-pride/article37781721.ece
01 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||KBSA to launch an academy next year||The Kerala Badminton and Shuttle Association (KBSA) will launch its own academy early next year. It will be based at CSN Trust, Ottapalam in Palakkad district. KBSA will hire a foreign coach and the number of trainees and other modalities will be finalised later, said KBSA secretary Rakesh Sheker after the Executive Committee meeting in Kollam on Tuesday. KBSA has decided to hold only two State-ranking tournaments in each category from next season. It will also introduce two district-level ranking tournaments from next season. Participation However to prevent large number of entries in State-ranking tournaments, KBSA will restrict the number of participants. From next season, the entries to ranking tournaments across all categories will be based on rankings in the district-level ranking tournaments. The top-ranked eight singles players in each category, along with the top-four doubles pair from each district, will gain automatic entry into State-ranking events. To address the issue of shortage of coaches at grassroots level, KBSA will conduct level one programme for aspiring coaches in April and May 2022. The association is also aiming to induct at least six new technical officials from each district and for that the State association will conduct an online seminar and pratical examinations early next year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kbsa-to-launch-an-academy-next-year/article37782011.ece
01 December 2021||Turin,||Croatia packs off Italy||Croatia dumped out much-fancied Italy in the Davis Cup quarterfinals on Monday as Olympic men’s doubles champions Nikola Mektic and Mate Pavic brushed aside Jannik Sinner and Fabio Fognini in a deciding match. The Italians were one of the favourites for the title but paid for Lorenzo Sonego’s shock defeat by World No. 279 Borna Gojo in the first singles rubber. Singles World No. 10 Sinner forced a deciding doubles with a dramatic victory over Marin Cilic, but he could not complete the job against the top two ranked doubles players as Mektic and Pavic won 6-3, 6-4 to silence the home crowd. Croatia is bidding for a third Davis Cup title and second in three stagings of the event after lifting the trophy in 2018. This win also confirms its place at next year’s Davis Cup Finals, with the four semifinalists guaranteed qualification.    The results (quarterfinals): In Turin: Croatia 2 bt Italy 1 [Borna Gojo bt Lorenzo Sonego 7-6(2), 2-6, 6-2; Marin Cilic lost to Jannik Sinner 3-6, 7-6(4), 6-3; Nikola Mektic & Mate Pavic bt Fabio Fognini & Sinner 6-3, 6-4] .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/croatia-shocks-italy/article37781644.ece
01 December 2021||December 01 2021 00:00 IST,||Odisha FC wins a thriller||Odisha FC scored six and conceded four against East Bengal in an Indian Super League fixture that witnessed a great contest of attacking football, at the Tilak Maidan Stadium, on Tuesday. Odisha saw its Spanish defender Hector Rodas nodding home the first two goals in the 33rd and 40th minutes while the other Spaniard Javi Hernandez curled the third home direct from the corner in the 45th. East Bengal had earned the lead in the 13th off a fine effort from Darren Sidoel. Aridai Cabrera, made it 4-1 in the 71st minute. When everything looked over, both sides traded more goals. At the end of it all, Odisha FC won the match 6-4.  The result: Odisha FC 6 (Hector Rodas 33, 40, Javi Hernandez 45, Aridai Cabrera 71, 90+3, Isaac Ralte 82) bt East Bengal 4 (Darren Sidoel 13, Semboi Haokip 80, Daniel Chukwu 90, 90+1-pen).   Wednesday’s match: ATK Mohun Bagan vs Mumbai City FC, 7.30 p.m .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/odisha-fc-wins-a-thriller/article37781652.ece
01 December 2021||SURAT,||Strong reply by Madhya Pradesh||Half-centuries from Aman Singh Solanki and Akshat Raghuwanshi helped Madhya Pradesh end strongly on 215 for three in response to Tamil Nadu’s 325 on the second day of the BCCI u-19 Cooch Behar Trophy here on Tuesday.  The scores: At Surat: Tamil Nadu 325 in 101.2 overs (B. Sachin 37, A. Badrinath 60, M. Boopathi Vaishna Kumar 101, Akash Devkumar 48, Saumy Kumar Pandey 3/50, Aryan Pandey 3/52, Parush Mandal 3/50) vs. Madhya Pradesh 215/3 in 66 overs (Prithviraj Singh Tomar 34, Aman Singh Solanki 68, Akshat Raghuwanshi 51 batting, Abhishek Mavi 37 batting).   At Vizianagaram: Mumbai 645/7 decl in 147.5 overs (Ved Prakash Jaiswal 12, Aayush Zimare 133, Raj Waghela 65 n.o., Suryansh Shedge 56) vs. Puducherry 60/1 in 23.3 overs .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/strong-reply-by-madhya-pradesh/article37781765.ece
01 December 2021||Bali,||Sindhu will strive for a winning show||P.V. Sindhu will look to ensure that her consistent run yields a title, while all eyes will also be on the fast-rising Lakshya Sen and the men’s doubles pairing of Satwiksairaj Rankireddy and Chirag Shetty as they make their debut at the BWF World Tour Finals beginning here on Wednesday. It will be the best-ever representation for India at the year-end tournament with as many as seven of them qualifying for the $150,000 event. Save for mixed doubles, Indians compete in all categories with Ashwini Ponnappa and N. Sikki Reddy making the cut after the Indonesia Open last week. Sindhu was a finalist at the last event and will look for another good outing when she opens her campaign against top seed Pornpawee Chochuwong of Thailand in Group A. Denmark’s Line Christophersen and Germany’s Yvonne Li are other players in her group. Srikanth has looked in good touch in the last few events with semifinal finishes at Indonesia Masters and the Hylo Open. Debutants Lakshya and Satwik-Chirag have been clubbed in the ‘group of death’ and might find the going extremely tough.  World No. 11 Satwik and Chirag will face top-seeded Indonesians Marcus Fernaldi Gideon and Kevin Sanjaya Sukamuljo, World No. 3 Chinese Taipei’s Lee Yang and Wang Chi-Lin and World No. 10 Denmark’s Kim Astrup and Anders Skaarup Rasmussen. In women’s doubles, Ashwini and Sikki will have to compete with Japan’s second seeds Nami Matsuyama and Chiharu Shida, Bulgaria’s Gabriela Stoeva and Stefani Stoeva, and Chloe Birch and lauren Smith of England for a place in the knockout stage.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sindhu-will-strive-for-a-winning-show/article37782108.ece
01 December 2021||KABUL,||Klusener not to renew Afghanistan contract||Former South Africa all-rounder Lance Klusener will step down as head coach of Afghanistan when his contract expires on December 31. Klusener, who was appointed in September 2019, said he would not renew his contract. Under him, Afghanistan won one of three Tests, three of six ODIs and nine of 14 T20Is. “Having spent two years with the team, I will take away some memorable moments with me,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/klusener-not-to-renew-afghanistan-contract/article37781712.ece
01 December 2021||December 01 2021 00:00 IST,||Abhinav and Saanvi clinch u-15 titles||Abhinav K. Murthy and Saanvi Vishal Mandekar emerged the under-15 boys’ and girls’ singles champions respectively at the Dr. Ramaiah State-ranking table tennis tournament. The under-13 titles went to Seshaanth Ramasamyy and Ayushi B. Godse.  The results: U-15: Boys: Abhinav K. Murthy bt Teshub Dinesh 11-8, 11-6, 11- 13, 11-6; Girls: Saanvi Vishal Mandekar bt A. Niharika 11-6, 10-12, 11-7, 11-7. U-13: Boys: Seshaanth Ramasamyy bt Teshub Dinesh 11-8, 12-10, 11-7; Girls: Ayushi B. Godse bt Smruthi Sudarshan 13-11, 11-8, 11-6 .    Kickstart FC eased past BUFC 4-1 in the BDFA Super Division Football League here on Tuesday.  The results: FC Deccan 3 (Paras Tyagi 67, B. Ashwin 75, 82) bt ADE FC 1 (Khaling Angshuirong 32); Kickstart FC 4 (M.R. Sathish Kumar 20, Prince Will Emeka Olariche 51, Ankith 56, D. Dhanush 81) bt BUFC 1 (Emma Frank Chukwa Emeka 90+2); Bengaluru FC 3 (Lalthonglina 33, Huidrom Thou Singh 45, Biswakr Dorjee 90) bt MEG & Center FC 0 .    M. Gopika emerged the under-14 champion at the Rotary Rapid Chess Tournament recently.  Other winners: U-8: Ashank Kailas Goliwadekar; U-10: Pavana Sai Pravareesh; U-12: Abhimaan S. Nair .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/abhinav-and-saanvi-clinch-u-15-titles/article37781701.ece
01 December 2021||BENGALURU,||Soha begins campaign with easy win||Soha Sadiq opened her $15,000 KSLTA ITF Women’s World Tour Championship campaign in fine fashion, beating United States’ Shria Atturu 6-2, 6-2 at the KSLTA courts here on Tuesday. The Karnataka girl, later on, made a convincing start in doubles too, partnering Sai Samhitha to defeat the third-seeded pair of Nidhi Chilumula and Snehal Mane 6-4, 6-1. Elsewhere, singles fifth seed Mihika Yadav was upset by wild card Jagmeet Kaur Grewal 6-2, 2-6, 6-3.  Select results: Singles (round of 32): Vaidehi Chaudhari bt Nidhi Chilumula 6-2, 6-2; Soha Sadiq bt Shria Atturu (USA) 6-2, 6-2; So-Ra Lee (Kor) bt Ramya Natarajan 6-4, 6-2, Jagmeet Kaur Grewal bt Mihika Yadav 6-2, 2-6, 6-3.   Doubles (round of 16): Sharmada Balu & Sravya Shivani Chilakapudi bt Sonashe Bhatnagar & Bela Tamhankar 6-3, 6-2; Sai Samhitha Chamarthi & Soha Sadiq bt Nidhi Chilumula & Snehal Mane 6-4, 6-1; Sowjanya Bavisetti & Rutuja Bhosale bt Yubarani Banerjee & Jagmeet Kaur Grewal 6-0, 6-2; So-Ra Lee (Kor) & Sathwika Sama bt Pooja Ingale & Prathyusha Rachapudi 7-5, 6-1 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/soha-begins-campaign-with-easy-win/article37781718.ece
01 December 2021||Chennai,||Sangam BC in last four||Sangam BC defeated Hindustan Jammers 67-50 in a women’s quarterfinal match of the TN State basketball championships (Inter-Zonal) held here on Tuesday.  Other quarterfinal results: S. Rly 73 bt Urban 25; Rising Star 41 bt Golden Eagle 28; TNBA TRW 83 bt Rev. Bro Camillees 70||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sangam-bc-in-last-four/article37781763.ece
01 December 2021||JHAJJAR,||Gargi stuns Kiran||Gargi Pawar defeated third seed Kiran Kalkal 6-4, 3-6, 6-3 in the pre-quarterfinals of the Rs. 100,000 AITA women’s ranking tennis tournament here on Tuesday. In the quarterfinals, Gargi will play Ritu Rai who beat eighth seed Sanika Kambli.  The results (pre-quarterfinals): Himaanshika Singh bt Niharika Deshmukh 6-2, 6-1; Bala Gayathri Snigdha bt Somya Arya 6-1, 6-1; Himadri Kashyap bt Ritu Ohlyan 6-2, 6-0; Ishwari Matere bt Shambhavi Rawat 6-1, 6-0; Ritu Rai bt Sanika Devidas Kambli 6-3, 2-6, 6-1; Gargi Pawar bt Kiran Kalkal 6-4, 3-6, 6-3; Apeksha Solanki bt Sachi Patwardhan 1-6, 6-2, 6-4; Anjali Rathi bt Anahat Pannu 6-1, 6-2 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/gargi-stuns-kiran/article37781859.ece
01 December 2021||December 01 2021 08:03 IST,||Sudoku — December 1, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-december-1-2021/article37782235.ece
01 December 2021||December 01 2021 00:00 IST,||Call of the waterfall||Tired of being cooped up at home or hotel in Chennai? Till the rains dissipate and the sun shines bright, let us take solace in keeping our winter escapades planned, booked and ready. While the usual sun-soaked beaches await weekenders to Chennai’s South, to the West are places that have not seen the full flow of tourism in a while. Yelagiri’s waterfalls and campsites are eagerly awaiting visitors, so why not map out a 48-hour drive that lets us cover as much natural beauty as possible? Not all the wonders on route — hidden or otherwise — are natural. In 2013, the small, pre-historic stone structures inside Moolakkadu Reserve Forest on Jawadu Hills were made accessible to tourists. The drive along NH32, enroute Yelagiri, takes a little less than five hours if you start early, making it the perfect brunch pitstop with a post-meal hike to boot. The site is described fondly by Rajith Cherian, a Chennai-based offroad biker: “The distance from base is not much, but it’s an hour-long trek, since the trail isn’t well-paved or well-explored.” He went during the dry season and says “Everything was brown but the view was still beautiful. After the monsoon, things will be more lush and green.” It can get tricky after rains, though, so trek cautiously.  The Vaaliyamparai Dolmens stand atop a short yet precarious trail. They are small, single-chamber structures, theorised to be ancient stone tombs known as dolmens, and can be accessed only via a guided trek in the presence of members from a self help group set up just for this purpose. Your effort will be rewarded not only by the curious structures on top, but also by a stunning view of the hills all around. At a distance of about 30 kilometres from the dolmens await the Beeman Waterfalls, that are gushing after weeks of being fed by heavy rainfall. These falls are the first among a string of waterfalls. This particular stretch of Jawadu Hills, dotted with multiple waterfalls, is worth visiting, but the remaining ones in our list are still a few kilometres away. What is closer — about 13 kilometres or a half-hour drive away — is the Vainu Bappu Observatory at Indian Institute of Astrophysics, near the hilly village of Kavalur. In any other year, the observatory would have boasted three impressive telescopes — including Asia’s largest, the Vainu Bappu Telescope — and made for an interesting pitstop for Nature enthusiasts and stargazers. However, the visitor programme was suspended earlier this year due to COVID-19. So, unless you want to visit three more waterfalls in the same evening, covering another 45-odd kilometres, how about spending the evening stargazing by a campfire, next to your cosy tent? Since Jawadu Hills are not as commercialised or touristy as Yelagiri, there are few options for accomodation nearby. However, Gogocamping near Kavalur offers tents and equipment upon pre-booking. The surroundings are simple, but the skies will be starry and the sites are used to catering to the needs of Chennai travellers. Gogocamping, for instance, offers free private parking as well as a vegetarian breakfast, so you are well-fuelled for day two of your sojourn. The next morning, a 40-kilometre drive will lead you to Mayilparai, the first of a string of waterfalls in that stretch of the Eastern Ghats. After a day of exploring and enjoying the Mayilparai and Jalagamparai falls, make sure you begin your drive back to Chennai by noon, since it will take you about six hours. Unless, of course, you want to spend another night under the stars, at a campsite closer down your route. The YMCA Camp Centre in Yelagiri is open for visitors, and offers three-people tents as well as other equipment to be used within its star-capped camping site. YMCA sometimes hosts stargazing camps, conducted by SPACE Chennai, but those have been put on hold till January. Until then, there are plenty of mountain drives and waterfalls to enjoy. And if you want one last pitstop, drop by Amirthi Zoological Park, 25 kilometres South of Vellore, to say hello to the pelicans and deer on your way home to Chennai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/call-of-the-waterfall/article37782104.ece
01 December 2021||December 01 2021 00:00 IST,||Making of a MasterChef||In this remote bylane of Thillai Nagar in Tiruchi, a banner congratulating Devaki Vijayaraman for winning the title in the first season of MasterChef India — Tamil works better than Google Maps in helping us locate the low-profile victor’s home. But Devaki blushes when we mention it to her. “My husband and school friends put it up, even though I was not for it. Participating inMasterChef Tamiland winning the inaugural season feels like a dream to me; I haven’t woken up yet!” laughs Devaki. Prepping, as every chef is fond of saying, is everything when it comes to the culinary world. But for Devaki, preparation has been often overtaken by her passion to try new things. Despite being interested in cookery from an early age, Devaki was not encouraged to make it a profession by her family. “So I graduated in Commerce, and then did my MBA, and worked in an IT company for a few years. After marriage, my husband and I were based in Chennai, but we decided to return to Tiruchi when we were expecting our first child,” says the 28-year-old. Lockdown bakes A few months after her son Dhruv was born, Devaki attended a baking course, and started posting pictures of her cakes on her WhatsApp and Instagram accounts. “I set up a baking and icing station in my drawing room just so that I could get the perfect product.” What started out as a hobby became a business idea during lockdown. With commercial bakeries downing shutters last year, Devaki found herself flooded with orders from friends and neighbours. As her venture took off, so did her dreams. “I am an ardent fan of cookery shows on TV; when I watched [Singaporean] Sasi Cheliah win the MasterChef Australia title in 2018, I became passionate about contesting in the show,” says Devaki. “But it wasn’t about winning anything, I would have been happy just to qualify or get an apron at the most,” she says. Filmed in Bengaluru and telecast by Sun TV, MasterChef India - Tamil was hosted by actor Vijay Sethupathi. Professional chefs Harish Rao, Aarthi Sampath and Koushik S were the judges. There is no doubt Devaki has achieved far more than what she had initially hoped for: besides winning the title and trophy, she has also got the coveted MasterChef gold-trimmed coat, and a cash prize of Rs. 25 lakh. After clearing two audition rounds in Madurai, Devaki was among the 12 shortlisted contestants who headed to Bengaluru, where a further 12 people joined the competition. She was one among the 14 finalists who eventually progressed to the advanced stages of the show. Interacting with the charismatic host was a major highlight. “Vijay Sethupathi is so down-to-earth; when we were waiting for the chefs to evaluate our work with knots in our stomachs, he would ease the tension with light-hearted banter,” she recalls. By contrast, she says, the judges were strict. “We could talk only about the food we had cooked, and listen to their technical assessment of our skills.” Twist of taste Devaki presented recipes that capitalised on a continental flavour with a southern Indian twist. Whether arancini (fried Italian rice balls stuffed with cheese) made with karuvepillai sadam (curry leaf rice), or dianthus poothrekelu , a floral take on the papery Andhra rice batter dessert served up with white chocolate, her yen for fusion cuisine stood out. “I felt that I had finally reached some level of expertise when judge Harish Rao took a selfie with me after I presented the dianthus poothrekelu , because I had tried a complicated technique with the available materials in the studio, replacing an earthen pot with a dosa tawa ,” she says. In the finale, Mayajalam, an iced lemon cream quennelle with a paruthi paal (cottonseed extract) mousse filling won over the judges, with its sweet and tart flavours. “Though it was a Tamil programme, MasterChef is also about food from other cultures. I tried to do my best with what we have here in South India, mixed with international tastes,” she says. Devaki hopes to secure a portion of her prize money for her son’s future, and also expand her bakery business. “Winning the MasterChef India - Tamil title has given me a new identity and self-confidence. My customers in Tiruchi have been very supportive and proud to have bought a cake from the season’s winner,” she laughs. “Their trust and love are the best prize.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/making-of-a-masterchef/article37782105.ece
01 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Ban on construction in Delhi proving costly for labourers||As a prospective customer reached a labour chowk in Tilak Nagar in the western part of Delhi looking for a painter, a bunch of labourers ran towards him till he decided on one and left, leaving the others disappointed. The Delhi Government had banned construction work and demolition activities due to pollution in the Capital and lifted it last week. However, the ban was reimposed following Supreme Court directions. At several labour chowks in Delhi, labourers find small work here and there but two COVID-induced lockdowns and a pollution-induced ban on construction has left them broke and fending for themselves. At the Tilak Nagar labour chowk, Mahender Pal Sharma, a native of Uttarakhand – wearing a pair of flip flops on a cold winter morning – who has a family of four, including children to feed, said he hasn’t found work for the last three days and is returning home empty-handed. He is angry at both the Governments — the Centre and the State — for ignoring the needs of the labour class. Govt. questioned The labourers questioned the government on why they only banned construction work and didn’t take measures on vehicular pollution. Raja (28) from Bihar said, “Pollution happens because of vehicles… why do they not ask people to stop driving? The middle and upper class are not affected by this, we are,” said Guddu, who is barely managing as he has not found work for the last 10 days. He has to pay a rent of Rs. 3,000 this month apart from other expenses. Mohammed Salim, at Subhash Nagar labour Chowk, said since the second lockdown was lifted, they have been able to find work for about 10 days out of 30 on an average. Despite the ban, he and others said that they get work on some days – employed by people who are continuing with construction work despite the ban. “We reach here around 8 a.m. and stay till 5 p.m. every day in the hope of getting work,” he said. Debts are increasing for most of them, they say, because of lack of work opportunities. Prabhu Dayal (47), a native of Rajasthan, who has a wife and three children to feed, said he had to take a friendly loan of Rs. 20,000 from a relative because he had to urgently get his wife operated for a nerve problem. A few others standing with him also said that they had to take loan sometimes even for ration. The labourers also said that most of them have not been able to avail the benefit of Delhi Government’s scheme of giving Rs. 5,000 to construction workers because they either don’t have bank accounts or are not aware of the process.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/ban-on-construction-in-delhi-proving-costly-for-labourers/article37781852.ece
01 December 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Month-long winter session of Assembly set to be stormy||The winter session of Odisha Assembly, which begins on Wednesday and will continue till December 31, is set to witness uproarious scenes with the Opposition Bharatiya Janata Party and Congress declaring their plan to corner the Government over the Mamita Meher murder case, corruption and general law and order issue. Apart from the teacher’s murder case, the BJP’s legislative party on Tuesday resolved to raise issues such as violence against women, irregularities in paddy procurement and corruption in spending of District Mineral Foundation fund and Odisha Mineral Bearing Areas Development Corporation (OMBADC). Congress also made it clear that before any discussions to take place on the floor of State Assembly, the Government must give concrete assurance on investigating into the murder of Mamita Meher and the conspiracy behind the brutal killing. “Mamita Meher murder case and involvement of Minister of State for Home Dibya Shankar Mishra in the crime have been discussed in detail in the BJP legislative party meeting. The law and order situation in the State has also completely collapsed. Besides, the party would give emphasis over the issue of paddy procurement,” said BJP Chief Whip Mohan Charan Majhi. “We will request the Government to cooperate with us in discussing Mamita Meher murder case. If the Government behaves cowardly and does not cooperate, we will chalk out our own strategy to make the Government accountable,” said Narasingha Mishra, leader of Congress Legislative Party. ‘We want justice’ “There are many issues to be raised in the Assembly. We will give priority to Mamita Meher murder issue. We want justice to the woman teacher. There is criminal conspiracy behind the murder. Now the killer and his accomplices are arrested. Where are the conspirators? Conspiracy cannot be hatched by single person. Where are the other persons and where is the investigation heading?” he asked. Political observers said they were not expecting the House to function normally.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/month-long-winter-session-of-assembly-set-to-be-stormy/article37781848.ece
01 December 2021||Patna,||Empty liquor bottles found on Bihar Assembly premises||Empty liquor bottles were found inside the Bihar Assembly premises on Tuesday triggering a sharp attack by the Opposition on the State Government’s prohibition laws. Chief Minister Nitish Kumar later assured that a probe would be conducted by high-level officials and no one responsible for this will be spared. The five-day winter session of the Bihar legislature is underway. On the second day of the House, some empty bottles of liquor were found from under a tree at a place marked for parking spot for two-wheelers inside the Assembly premises. The Opposition MLAs took a swipe at the Government over the “failure of the prohibition in the State”. “The Chief Minister does not have the moral responsibility to remain on his post. We’ve been saying that the prohibition has completely failed in the State. Is the Chief Minister, who is also the Home Minister, sleeping,” asked Leader of the Opposition Tejashwi Yadav, who visited the spot where the bottles were found and took photographs. Mr. Kumar later assured the Opposition that such incidents would not be tolerated and a probe would be conducted. “How the bottles were found inside the Assembly premises is not a trivial matter. Someone must be responsible for this. We’ll investigate the matter and strict action will be taken against those responsible for this,” he said. Mr. Kumar also informed the House that the Government has taken a serious note of the issue. “I’ll order the Chief Secretary and the Director General of Police to find out who is responsible,” he added. On November 26, Mr. and his Cabinet colleagues and officials had taken a pledge at Patna’s Gyan Bhawan to not drink liquor for life, nor to indulge in any activity related with liquor to mark the ‘Nasha Mukti Diwas’ in the State. Later, Mr. Kumar said hooch deaths “must be highlighted to give message to people how liquor consumption was not only bad but dangerous for them”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/empty-liquor-bottles-found-on-bihar-assembly-premises/article37781886.ece
01 December 2021||December 01 2021 00:00 IST,||Talking to the tahr||It is a nippy morning, so we bask in the sun at Anamalai Tiger Reserve’s (ATR) Butterfly Park at Aliyar on Pollachi-Valparai Road, a two hour drive from Coimbatore. Like us, hundreds of butterflies soak in the sunshine, — dark blue tiger, blue tiger, and common crows — all buzzing around the small, purple flowers of t ha e l kodukku (Indian heliotrope). A little away, showy orange and red lantana blooms are attracting the plain tiger butterflies even as rows and rows of ornamental nithya kalyani with pink flowers, and yellow and red dahlias vie for attention. A stone pavement leads to the watchtower where visitors can enjoy a view of the spectacular Aliyar Dam and the expanse of the pristine blue water. There are carved replicas of birds, butterflies, and reptiles, including an intimidating king cobra, installed at the park to pique the interest of visitors. An artificial cascade draws children. As a part of the 20-member team led by V Selvam, Assistant Conservator of Forests, it is a good place to start the tour offered by the park. “The objective is to sensitise visitors on conservation by sharing knowledge,” says MG Ganesan, Deputy Director of ATR. “For November, we have called it Hornbill Festival to put the spotlight on the birds. Next month, we want to highlight another key species like the Nilgiri tahr, and then a primates tour to showcase the lion tailed macaques, grey and black langurs, Nilgiris langur, bonnet macaque and slender lorris, and then maybe tribal communities...it’s a long list,” he explains. Our next stop is the gushing waterfall Kavi Aruvi .“During a regular outing, vistors tend to just enjoy the views, dump plastic, and go back to their routine. In ecotourism, we keep reiterating the need on conserving resources,” states Selvam. As we drive to the ninth hairpin bend, we encounter a pair of Nilgiri tahr, roaming freely on the almost deserted ghat road. Another tahr lazes atop a hillock. A three-kilometre drive gets us to Attakatti Training Centre. For the next one hour, there are talks and videos on hornbills. Of the 54 species of hornbills across the world, nine are found in India, and four in South India. As frugivores, hornbills also need a large forest with ficus trees. However, logging of these trees as well as tree species that provide nesting have led to significant reduction in their population. “Hornbills could be seen in hundreds along this stretch. For the past three months, I am visiting every day, but am yet to catch a glimpse of a single bird. We are monitoring and protecting our rainforest as they are like sponges that conserve water,” states Selvam. He adds, “With landslides and floods, our rivers are drying up. We have to conserve to leave the forest in the safe hands of the future,” he says, adding, “After the tour, if you go back and plant one aala maram , arasa maram or ichi , it is a ray of hope.”  For bookings in December, call 9842595826||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/talking-to-the-tahr/article37782066.ece
01 December 2021||Ghaziabad,||Wedding card the new pamphlet||The impact of farmers’ protests and upcoming elections could be seen in the wedding cards being printed in Western Uttar Pradesh and neighbouring States. Some use the invitation to spread awareness about the farmers’ issues, some utilise them as glorified pamphlets to seek votes for the party of their choice and others want to use them as reminders for their candidature for the party ticket. Recently, the wedding card of Vaibhav Yadav, district president of Samajwadi Party’s Chhatra Sabha in Rampur, went viral as it carried photos of not only patron Mulayam Singh Yadav and party president Akhilesh Yadav but also senior party leader Azam Khan. Through the card, Mr. Yadav sought votes for the party and the release of Mr. Khan. He said, he wanted to “spread awareness” among people that Akhilesh Yadav should become the next Chief Minister and “remind them of the atrocities” committed on Azam Khan and his family. Mr. Yadav said the card became the talk of the town and he received several calls. “People usually don’t read wedding cards seriously. I made sure people took note of the message.” Earlier this year, the wedding invitation of Tabassum and Mohd. Jabir caught attention as it carried a sketch of Rashtriya Lok Dal chief Jayant Singh on the cover. “I am a farmer and a member of RLD. I was impressed by the work done by Jayant sahib in spreading awareness about the farmers’ issues and wanted to share it with my community,” said Mohd Mudassir from Dhikka Kalan village of Saharanpur. The trend could be seen in States that share a border with Haryana or Western Uttar Pradesh. Last week, when Pankaj Singh, son of a farmer, got married in Khyali village of Churu district in Rajasthan, the wedding card carried no images of god or goddess. Instead, it carried slogans such as “No Farmer No Food”, “Kisan Ekta Zindabad” and images of former Prime Minister Chaudhary Charan Singh and his son and former RLD chief Ajit Singh, who passed away because of COVID related problems, earlier this year. “The farmers’ protests had a huge social impact. Whoever produces or consumes food was affected by the farm laws and wedding cards are a convenient way to put your point across to a large section of people. You don’t need pamphlets. My father says that in past too wedding cards were used to spread socio-political messages,” Mr. Singh said. The wedding card of the daughter of Rajesh Dhankar from Jhajjar, Haryana created a flutter on social media as it carried a message that said members from the BJP, its ally the Jananayak Janta Party and the RSS should keep away from the wedding. ‘Reflects anguish’ Mr. Dhankad, who describes himself as the president of Vishwa Veer Jat Mahasabha, could not be reached but Anil Kumar general secretary of the IT Cell of the Akhi Bhartiya Jaat Mahasabha said Mr. Dhankar’s action reflects the anguish against the ruling class because of the farm laws. “We don’t recognise his group but we can sense his emotion. However, it is just not the BJP, no party has stood for farmers and all of them should be sent a message,” said Mr. Kumar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/wedding-card-the-new-pamphlet/article37781846.ece
01 December 2021||Bhubaneswar,||Ex- judge to monitor teacher’s murder probe||Ahead of the winter session of the Odisha Legislative Assembly, in which the issue of woman teacher Mamita Meher’s murder may dominate, the Orissa High Court has nominated A.B.S. Naidu, a former district judge, to monitor the investigation. The State government had requested Orissa High Court to nominate a sitting or retired judge of the court or a district and sessions judge to monitor the investigation of Mamita Meher murder case in order to have transparency in the matter as it is a sensitive case. “Based on request, the High Court has nominated A.B.S. Naidu, former district judge to monitor the investigation in connection with Mamita Meher murder case,” government sources said. Mamita Meher, teacher at Sunshine English Medium School, Mahaling in Kalahandi district, had gone missing on October 8 and the body was traced on October 19. She was reportedly strangulated to death by Gobina Sahu, promoter of the school. Police said the murder accused killed Meher in order to prevent her from revealing his extra marital affairs. However, opposition political parties alleged that MoS Home Mr. Mishra who had close links with Sahu was shielding him. The suspicion stemmed from the fact that the murder accused managed to give police slip from a police barrack. Prior to that police had kept questioning the accused for four days, but failed to get whiff of his involvement in the crime. The nomination of judge for monitoring the case is likely to help ruling BJD blunt Opposition attack in the Assembly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/ex-judge-to-monitor-teachers-murder-probe/article37781849.ece
01 December 2021||Mumbai,||Ahead of civic polls, Mumbai Congress to woo Gujaratis||In a bid to woo Gujarati voters who have stood with the BJP since the 2014 Lok Sabha polls, the Mumbai unit of the Congress has decided to approach its Gujarat leaders to address community gatherings in the city ahead of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) polls. “We will be organising community gatherings in different parts of the city where the Gujarati population is in large numbers. We want to approach them. They had been with us for decades. Now it is time to bring them back,” said Mehul Vora, president, Mumbai Congress Gujarati cell. The party had organised the first of such programme in the series with Hardik Patel, working president of the Gujarat Congress, addressing at Mumbai’s Ghatkopar area, known for the Gujarati population, on Tuesday. It was attended by Mumbai Congress president Bhai Jagtap and executive president Charansingh Sapra. Similar programmes will be organised at Vile Parle, Goregaon, Borivali in the course of next month. Gujarat Congress president Amit Chavda, Leader of the Opposition in the Gujarat Assembly Paresh Dhanani will be addressing these functions ahead of BMC polls. Mumbai’s Ghatkopar, Vile Parle, Malad, Kandivli, Borivali, Goregaon are few of the areas dominated by the Gujarati population, and 40-45 wards can get affected by their vote. Mr. Vora said the party wanted to send a clear message to the Gujarati community in Mumbai that it stood by them whenever necessary and all the problems faced by them, be it in business or others, could be sorted out only by the Congress. The Mumbai Congress, over the past few months, has been trying to woo the north Indian community which too has tilted towards the BJP. In January 2021, the party organised its first gathering of the Gujarati community in Vile Parle, which had to be discontinued due to the second wave of pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/ahead-of-civic-polls-mumbai-congress-to-woo-gujaratis/article37781850.ece
01 December 2021||JAIPUR,||Rajasthan scheme for jobs to women||The Congress Government in Rajasthan has come up with a unique scheme for providing regular or work-from-home employment to the women who have had to quit their earlier jobs because of family reasons. The “Back to Work” scheme will be operated with the help of the private sector. Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Tuesday approved the scheme, as part of which a target was set to provide employment to 15,000 women in the next three years. Priority will be given to widows, divorcees and victims of violence. The Directorate of Women's Empowerment will develop a single window system in collaboration with the corporate social responsibility groups to create employment opportunities for women willing to come back to work. The Rajasthan Knowledge Corporation Limited will also organise skills training programmes to make them employable. The women, who are not able to go to the workplace or do regular office jobs, will be provided with work-from-home job opportunities. Mr. Gehlot had announced the scheme during his reply in the State Assembly to the debate on the Finance and Appropriation Bill in the 2021-22 Budget earlier this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/rajasthan-scheme-for-jobs-to-women/article37781843.ece
01 December 2021||Surat (Gujarat),||Man gets life term for raping child||A court here in Gujarat has sentenced a 22-year-old man to life imprisonment till his natural death for raping a seven-year-old girl in 2019. In the order issued on Monday, Surat rural court’s special POCSO judge P.S. Kala also ordered for a compensation of Rs. 15 lakh to the victim under a government scheme, special public prosecutor Prafulsinh Parmar said. The incident had taken place at Varali village in Surat on March 18, 2019. As per the case details, the victim was waiting on a roadside for her mother to pick her up at around 8 p.m. On finding the girl alone, the accused lured her on the pretext of taking her to her mother and raped her.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/man-gets-life-term-for-raping-child/article37781844.ece
01 December 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Odisha ban on New Year celebrations||The Odisha Government has prohibited zero night celebration and functions welcoming the New Year at public places stating that these congregations have potential to spread COVID-19 infection. “Usually people in large number congregate in hotels, restaurants, clubs, parks and other public places on December 31 and January 1. Such congregations have large potential to spread COVID-19 infection,” the State Government said issuing the COVID-19 guideline for the month of December on Tuesday. The Government also advised the people to celebrate such functions at their homes, avoiding mass gatherings and adhering to the COVID-19 safety protocols.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/odisha-ban-on-new-year-celebrations/article37782069.ece
01 December 2021||Mumbai,||Maharashtra CS retires, made Adviser at CMO||Maharashtra Chief Secretary Sitaram Kunte retired on Tuesday after the Centre did not approve six-month extension for him. Additional Chief Secretary Debashish Chakraborty will be the new CS. However, the Chief Minister’s Office said later that Mr. Kunte would continue working with the CMO and appointed him the Principal Adviser at the CMO. Mr. Chakraborty, a 1986-batch IAS officer, was handling the Planning Department of the State Government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/maharashtra-cs-retires-made-adviser-at-cmo/article37782068.ece
